
    ----CITATION----
        Maitland, James A.. The Cousins, or, The Captain's Ward .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7192
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE COUSINS: 
               OR, THE CAPTAIN'S WARD. 
             
            BY JAMES A. MAITLAND, ESQ., AUTHOR OF "THE WATCHMAN," "THE WANDERER," "THE OLD DOCTOR," "THE LAWYER'S STORY," ETC., ETC. 
            
               New York: 
               EVANS & CO., PUBLISHERS, 677 BROADWAY.
             
            1858. 
             
            ENTERED, according to Act of Congress, in the year eighteen hundred and fifty-seven, BY E. D. LONG, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York. 
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               CHAPTER I.-AN EARLY SNOW STORM IN NEW YORK. 5
                
               CHAPTER II.-CAPTAIN MARTINGALE AT HOME. 10
                
               CHAPTER III.-THE CONFINEMENT AND THE ESCAPE. 19
                
               CHAPTER IV.-NEEDLEWOMEN IN NEW YORK. 26
                
               CHAPTER V.-CHARLES ALLEN CONFIDES IN DR. CHEESEMAN. 42
                
               CHAPTER VI.-A VISIT TO THE MULGRAVE ISLANDS IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN. 48
                
               CHAPTER VII.-LOUISA MILDMAY COMMENCES HER STORY. 62
                
               CHAPTER VIII.-LOUISA CONCLUDES HER STORY. 71
                
               CHAPTER IX.-"ALL IN THE DOWNS"-A STORM ON THE COAST OF KENT. 79
                
               CHAPTER X.-THE TWO SURVIVORS OF THE SHIPWRECKED CREW-A DEATH-BED SCENE AT THE RECTORY. 92
                
               CHAPTER XI.-THE SMUGGLERS CAPTURED. 105
                
               CHAPTER XII.-THE RESCUE FROM THE GRAVE-A SOLEMN VOW. 112
                
               CHAPTER XIII.-ON BOARD THE SOUTH SEA WHALER. 119
                
               CHAPTER XIV.-A GOVERNESS WANTED. 130
                
               CHAPTER XV.-THE CHILDREN OF THE BAKER FAMILY. 134
                
               CHAPTER XVI.-A VISIT TO THE ISLAND OF OOLEAH-THE TABOO. 145
                
               CHAPTER XVII.-THE FAIRY OF THE MYSTERIOUS ISLAND. 154
                
               CHAPTER XVIII.-NEW-YEAR'S DAY IN NEW ZEALAND. 167
                
               CHAPTER XIX.-THE UNEXPECTED APPEARANCE OF THE GUARDIAN. 174
                
               CHAPTER XX.-FATHER AND SON. 187
                
               CHAPTER XXI.-THE MURDER AND THE SAVAGE WITNESS. 205
                
                
               CHAPTER XXII.-THE OLD SAILOR'S STORY. 211
                
               CHAPTER XXIII.-THE STORY OF THE ISLAND MAIDEN. 229
                
               CHAPTER XXIV.-CAPTAIN MARTINGALE IN PERPLEXITY. 237
                
               CHAPTER XXV.-CAPTURE OF THE SCHOONER OF WAR BY PIRATES. 249
                
               CHAPTER XXVI.-THE INTERVIEW BETWEEN LAURA AND HER GUARDIAN. 262
                
               CHAPTER XXVII.-THE LOVE OF THE ISLAND MAIDEN. 267
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII.-LAURA VISITS THE RECTOR WITH HER GUARDIAN. 280
                
               CHAPTER XXIX.-THE WRECK OF THE "MINERVA" IN THE INDIAN SEAS. 285
                
               CHAPTER XXX.-MYSTIFICATIONS UPON MYSTIFICATIONS. 297
                
               CHAPTER XXXI.-THE NEW ZEALAND GIRL. 303
                
               CHAPTER XXXII.-STRANGE DOINGS ON BOARD SHIP. 320
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII.-THE ARRIVAL AT CALCUTTA LEADS TO AN EXPLANATION. 338
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV.-THE GATHERING AT THE HOTEL AT SOUTHAMPTON. 355
                
               CHAPTER XXXV.-RETURN TO NEW YORK. 365
                
               CHAPTER XXXVI.-FURTHER EXPLANATIONS, AND DEPARTURE FOR NANTUCKET. 372
                
               CHAPTER XXXVII.-AN EXPLANATION AND A RECONCILIATION. 379
                
             
          
       
      
         
            The cousins, or, The captain's ward 
             
            THE CAPTAIN'S WARD. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               AN EARLY SNOW STORM IN NEW YORK. 
               IT was the first snow fall of the season, though November was far advanced, and the weather had been hitherto so fine, and the Indian summer so prolonged, that the sudden change was felt all the more severely: not by the rich and prosperous-they wrapt themselves in their warm clothing, and rejoiced in the change, and enjoyed the sharp, bracing atmosphere. To the ladies it afforded an opportunity to display their costly furs, and there were visions in prospective of gay balls and fashionable parties, and operas, and concerts, and sleigh-rides, and all the various pleasures that serve to relieve the dull tedium of the season of frosts and snows. Not by the children of the wealthy, for the ever-joyous pastimes of snow-balling and sliding and skating were open to them, and Christmas and the New-Year, with the holidays, and the pretty presents these festive seasons bring were present to their imagination. But to the working man who knew not how long he should be able to obtain employment-to the mechanic or small tradesman, who had been unable to lay to his winter stock of fuel, and who anticipated hard times and lack of business-to the poor needle woman, whose scant earnings in the most favorable season barely sufficed to procure her the simplest food and the poorest clothing, and who knew not how soon even this poor resource would fail her-to the poor generally, and to the children of the poor, winter brought no pleasing anticipations to cheer its gloom. 
               As evening approached, the snow fall changed to a mixture of sleet and drizzling rain, which seemed to cut into the flesh as it was driven by the wind which had risen, and was blowing in fierce though fitful gusts, chilling to the very bone many among the poor women who were returning home, draggled, drenched and wearied, from the stores where they had been to procure fresh task work, or to receive the scant and often grudgingly paid pittance they had earned. 
               Among these, toiling onward with the rest, was a young woman, who, from her appearance was a stranger in the city, for she seemed bewildered with the crowd; the street was now thronged with mechanics and laborers returning home from their avocations-hurrying along, eager to reach their homes, and the poor girl was heedlessly pushed aside, sometimes so roughly that she could scarcely keep her footing on the slippery, greasy side-walk; still, on she toiled, yet with a step so listless and mechanical that she appeared to have no definite end or aim in view. 
               At length she reached a by-street, and stood aside, as if to seek a slender shelter from the storm beneath the corner of a vacant book-stall. She was soaked through with the rain, shivering with cold, and trembling with fatigue, yet no one noticed her: all were too much engrossed with their own discomforts, too eager to gain shelter beneath the cover of their own roofs, and, indeed, wretched and forsaken as the poor creature appeared to be, she still seemed to shrink from observation. 
               Among the busy crowd, hurrying homewards to the comforts of a plentiful meal, and warm and well-lighted parlors, and the society of the loved ones who were anxiously awaiting them, none stayed to cast even a glance of commiseration upon the apparently destitute young woman. At length, however, a comfortable-looking matron who was passing by with a heavy basket hanging upon her arm, chanced to cast her eyes upon the poor, shivering, forlorn-looking creature, who was crouching near her beneath the adjoining stall. 
               Her cloak was drawn up and wrapt closely around her, and thrown over her head. She looked at the shrinking figure and sighed at the thought of the seeming distress she witnessed, and was passing on, when her ear caught the sound of a suppressed sob. 
               Her kindly heart was touched: she turned again and addressed the unhappy wanderer in an accent which, soft and gentle as it was, betrayed her Hibernian origin. 
               An' who may you be, poor crayther, out o'doors on sich a night as this? Have ye no home to go to? 
               The young female thus addressed looked vacantly at her interrogator as if her faculties were blunted by her wretchedness. At this moment a gust of wind swept down the street, the young woman's cloak became partially unfolded from her shrinking form, and disclosed the rich, though drenched apparel beneath. 
               "Ah!" sighed the old woman "I see. Woe's me! Ye're one of the poor misfortunate craythers that God has forsaken, and man has betrayed and destroyed. Go home, go home, poor thing! if you have a home. Ye'll make no market on sich a night as this." 
               The young woman did not seem to understand this address, and the fruit woman, for such was her trade, still misconstruing her silence, continued: 
               "Ah! ye're turned out of yer home thin! and yet ye're young and pretty. Ye're come to the bitterness of your thrade early, poor girl! Never mind, who, or whatever ye be; come home with me to-night. It's but a poor place I can offer ye, but ye'll be welcome to the bite and sup, and to a shelter from the cowld and the storm." 
               These accents of kindness fell gratefully upon the ears of the bewildered and half-fainting girl, and she mechanically signified nified her assent, and followed the kind-hearted fruit woman to a basement in Washington street. 
               There her drenched clothing was dried, and food set before her; and not until she was fed and rested, did her humane hostess betray any curiosity to learn her story; but in some measure cheered by the kindness and sympathy of her unknown and humble friend, the young woman took courage and told it at last-told it so earnestly, and apparently so truthfully, that she was readily believed. 
               She had fled, she said, from her guardian, who lived at Nantucket, to save herself from a fate to her more terrible than death-to save herself from being compelled to wed a man whom she despised and abhorred. Through the kindness of an old fisherman, she had been conveyed in the night after she had effected her escape from her prison in her guardian's house, on board a schooner bound to New York. She had hoped upon her arrival to have been able to maintain herself with the little money she had brought with her until she could procure employment in sewing; but a heavy storm had arisen shortly after the schooner left the port, and for three days the vessel had been tossed to and fro at the mercy of the winds and waves, and on the third day it had gone ashore and become a total wreck. 
               Some fishermen had saved the crew; but they had robbed the wreck of all that was valuable, and had taken her money from her. Nor was this all; they had treated her with rudeness. She had become alarmed, and had made her escape from them. 
               She still had two dollars which they had not discovered, and with these small means she hoped to reach New York. She had asked her way, and had wandered for two whole days, she knew not how many weary miles-sleeping at night anywhere she could obtain shelter, and now, towards the close of the third day, she had reached the great city, penniless, footsore, and weary. She had been bewildered with the noise and the crowd, and heartsick and despairing, she had wandered through the streets for some hours exposed to the wintry storm, and almost without an object, until she had well-nigh resigned herself to her fate, when she had been addressed by her kind hostess. 
               This was the substance of the poor girl's simple story. 
               "Ah, well!" sighed the old woman "sorra o' me; but there's sad an' cruel things in this world; an' to think that I should take ye for --. No matther, it was your fine silk dhress that misdecaived me. Go to bed now, dear, an' on the morrow we'll see what can be done. Ye'll be wanting work? Ye say ye can sew? It's a poor thrade; but better to work hard and live honestly than to thrive an' sin. 
               There's a seamstress lives up stairs in the attic; I'll inthroduce ye to her to-morrow. But, go sleep, now, alanna! go sleep." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               CAPTAIN MARTINGALE AT HOME. 
               LEAVING the unfortunate girl to the care of her kind though humble hostess, we will shift the scene, and explain to the curious reader who she was, and how the circumstances came about which led to her flight from her guardian's roof. 
               Captain Jonathan Martingale, of Harpoon Lodge, Nantucket Island, was a good specimen of the retired seaman of the old school. 
               Rough and rude and boisterous as the element on which he had passsed the greater portion of his life, his naturally irascible temper had not been improved by the habit of command which he had acquired over men still ruder and more turbulent in their natures than he; and, although he possessed many redeeming traits of characters, the old captain was not a man to be trifled with when anything occurred to thwart his wayward humor. 
               In the afternoon of a fine autumnal day, although the month of November was already far advanced, and winter was at hand, Captain Martingale was seated, as was his custom after dinner, in his easy chair, at the window of a cosy little parlor, which he called his cabin, for Harpoon Lodge had been fitted up, as nearly as was practicable, after the model of a ship, for, although he had quitted the sea, the old seaman could not endure the discomforts of a shore-going domicile, to say nothing of the unpleasant steadiness of everything-a fault he could not rectify. He liked to see things taut and compact about him-"a locker for everything, and everything in its locker," was his rendering of a musty shore-going proverb-and hence the captain's fancy as regarded the-to a landsman's eye-uncouth style of his dwelling. 
               On the particular afternoon on which our story opens, Captain Jonathan Martingale was earnestly engaged in conversation with a young lady of sixteen, or perhaps seventeen years of age; and, to judge from the vexation depicted in the old seaman's visage, the conversation that was going on was not of most agreeable nature. 
               "Surely, dear guardian, you would not compel me to marry a man for whom I have not the least particle of affection, or even of respect. Those impertinent attentions are positively displeasing to me. You have always behaved as a father to me, and I have sought to repay your care and attention, by loving and esteeming you as such. I have ever been willing to succumb to your will-but, surely, with regard to such a serious matter as that of marriage, I may be allowed to have a will of my own. You would not render me wretched for life by compelling me to marry Henry-I mean Mr. Benson?" 
               "Why, what's the girl talking about? I never did know a woman with much common sense in my life-though I thought you, Laura, had more than fell to the ordinary lot of your sex. What's the chief aim and end of womankind but to get spliced? and where will you get such another offer as that which Henry Benson has made? No, no, girl, don't think to come over an old seaman, who has stood more dog-watches than you've got hairs in your head. It's just one of your tantrums. If I didn't want ye to marry, you'd be running your head right into the noose-and now you've got a chance, and one that I approve of-off you go at a tangent, pulling right away in a contrairy direction." 
               "But, guardian-" 
               "None of you're buts and ifs with me, lass. I know the tricks of your sex. Why, when I was but a youngster, and chief mate of the old Adventure, I recollect-being in the South Seas off Tahiti-when a young copper-colored beauty-" 
               "Now, guardian!" exclaimed the young lady, archly-"don't tell that old story over again. You know I've heard it fifty times. 'I'm o'er young to marry yet,' as the old song says, and not tired of living with you. Just let me have my own way for this once, and I'll promise not to wed till I'm eighteen, when, as you have often told me, your guardianship over me will cease-then, if I make a bad match-" 
               "You'll be sorry you didn't take my advice, and marry Benson," interrupted the Captain; "what more can you wish than you can find in him. He's a sailor every inch, and as handsome a lad as you'll often meet with-none of your mealy-mouthed fellows, but a chap who can handle a ship in a gale, I warrant me, or spear a whale with ary man that ever sailed in the South Seas. What more would you have, girl?" 
               "I don't like him, guardian." 
               "You don't like him, guardian, eh? That's just like woman's excuse-that's what my wife said to me when I first axed her if she and I should haul our tacks on board and steer together through the ocean of life-'I don't like to, Jonathan,' says she; but I soon brought her to say, 'Yes, Jonathan!' and spliced we were, and comfortably we consorted together, until she slipped her cable and sheered off into eternity after we'd been spliced a matter o' six years. So it'll be with you, lass, by-and-bye, I warrant." 
               "Never, sir; I can never like or esteem Mr. Benson." 
               "Harkee, girl, have you got a hankering after anybody else?-have ary one of the long-shore lubbers been talking nonsense to you? 'Cause, if they have-" 
               "I have told you, guardian, that I have not yet thought seriously of marriage-that is to say, I am too young to marry just jet. In a year or two, perhaps-" 
               "Stuff and nonsense; as if you could make an old seaman like me who have seen women in all parts of the world, believe that!-as if I didn't know that all women folk think of, from the time they're ten years old, is getting married." 
               "I am an exception to the rule, then, guardian," said the girl, gaily; "Ha! there's old Peter come to say the boat's ready; so I must go. See if I don't bring home a fine lot of fish for supper to-night," and thus speaking, she hurried from the room, and was seen in a few moments walking away towards the beach with Peter Farley, an old fisherman, who resided near by, and with whom she was an especial favorite. 
               Captain Martingale watched her from the window. 
               "A spry lass that," said he, and one that'll make a right good wife for somebody-but she shall marry Benson, or my name's not Jonathan Martingale. I wonder now whether she really has taken up with ary one of those 'long-shore chaps-I must set myself to watch, and if-" 
               What the captain would do, if-he did not say; but taking a meerschaum pipe from a rack in the room, he filled it with prime Canaster, and lighting the weed, set to smoking vigorously, apparently abashed in his own thoughts. 
               Peter had, at Laura's request, got his fishing gear in order, and prepared his boat for her reception, she having resolved that afternoon to go on a fishing excursion-an amusement which she was very fond of and well skilled in-as well as in many other amusements of a masculine character, which, had she been a city bred lady, she might have thought vulgar and unsuited to her sex, although they by no means detracted from the real gentleness and womanliness of her nature. But Laura Denman was possessed of much strength of character, and having been from her twelfth year a resident of Harpoon Lodge, and debarred in a great measure from the society of girls of her own age, it was not to be wondered at that her amusements should have partaken of a masculine character; nor was it to be regretted, for they imparted vigor to her frame, and elasticity to her spirits, and conduced not a little to that energy and independence which served her in such good stead in the misfortunes and difficulties of her after life. 
               But Laura Denman was not fated to enjoy the amusement of boating or fishing that day. Just as she and Peter had reached the beach, they were met by a young man who lifted his cap gallantly to the lady, and after walking for some moments by her side, asked her if she would not accompany him on an equestrian excursion-"I have a horse to offer you, Miss Denman," he said, "and one that I think you will be pleased with. Mr. Baxter bought it for his daughter's use, and as she is at present absent from home, he has given me permission to ride out and exercise it. For my part, I am glad of the opportunity, especially when I can obtain an agreeable companion. It is a relief from the horrid drudgery of the office. What say you? I can borrow Doctor Cheeseman's horse for myself." 
               Laura looked up at the old fisherman as if to ask him to decide, for she seemed unwilling, after having given him the trouble to get his boat and lines ready, to disappoint him, and the old man did, for the moment, seem disappointed. But he said, after a little thought: 
               "Why Miss Laura, if you would sooner ride than sail, I have nought to say agin it, and to be sure I can't blame you for preferring Mr. Allen's company to that of an old man like me. So if you like to ride, I says ride by all means, and you can sail with me another time." 
               "But you will have had all your trouble for nothing, Peter." 
               "Not exactly, Miss, for you see I shall take a cast with the lines myself, tho' I am may be a little bit disappointed; but as I said, you can take a sail another time-to-morrow, p'raps." 
               "You are very kind, Peter, I will go to-morrow; but you see it is not every day I have an opportunity of riding." 
               "Sartainly not, Miss, and I wouldn't not by no means baulk you." 
               The difficulty was settled; Laura accepted the young man's offer, and walked with him to a paddock hard by, where she remained while he procured the horses. He then assisted her to mount, and away they started at full gallop along the road which skirted the sea beach. 
               The old fisherman, meanwhile, had put out to sea; but he watched the young couple as they rode away, with strong feelings of interest, until, at length, removing his brawny hand from his brow, where he had held it to shade his eyes from the sun, he said: 
               "If I'm not mistaken, there'll be a splicing match grow out of the intimacy of them two young 'uns. Well, sich things must be; and Master Allen's a fine lad, tho' it's a pity as such as he should be confined to the dullness of a lawyer's office." 
               There was little time for conversation between Charles Allen and Laura, during the early part of their ride, for they were fully occupied in trying the mettle of the horses; but as they slowly rode homewards, side by side, they naturally fell into conversation together, and the conversation gradually assumed a tone of especial interest. Charles Allen had several times essayed to speak on a subject which seemed to occupy his mind; but he had as often faltered. At length the road took a turn which led directly to the village; and feeling that he must now seize the opportunity, or perhaps lose it forever, the young man said abruptly: 
               "You will keep my secret, Miss Denman? I am about to leave you." 
               "To leave me!-that is us!-to leave Nantucket, Charles-that is, Mr. Allen," exclaimed Laura, and she started, so as almost to lose her seat, and her cheeks alternately flushed and turned pale. "Why, where are you going? It is but for a time, surely. You are not going to quit Nantucket for good?" 
               "For good, for aught I know, Miss Denman," said the youth, in a more assured tone of voice, however, for he noticed Laura's agitation, and had judged it to augur well to his cause. 
               "But why this resolve? I never knew that such was your intention." 
                
               "Nor did I till lately; indeed, not until yesterday did I fully make up my mind. Miss Denman, I have entrusted a secret to you, known to no one else. May I trust you with another?" 
               "Any secret will be safe with me," replied Laura. 
               "Then I will make a confidant of you-indeed, it was for this purpose I sought you to-day, and asked you to ride out with me. Perhaps you are not aware, Miss Denman, that there is a mystery attending my birth. I have never known who were my parents. As early as I can recollect, I was an inmate of a boarding-school in New York State; and thence I was transferred to Mr. Baxter's office, and, against my own inclination, set to study law with him. I have been given to understand from him that I am entitled to some property when I come of age, which will be two years hence, provided I act according to his wishes. He wishes, nay, insists upon my marriage with his daughter; or else threatens to discard me altogether; Miss Baxter I will never wed-I know nothing to her detriment; but the very thought of being forced, against my will, into marriage, is repugnant to me. It has been urged upon me repeatedly of late, until I have learnt to detest her. She returns home in a few days, and Mr. Baxter has seriously informed me that I must either follow the dictates of his will, or incur his lasting displeasure. He tells me if I refuse him, I shall become a beggar-a beggar-without hope for the future, for he will refuse to give me a character, and will turn me adrift in the world. There must be some hidden mystery to lead him to act thus. I am unable to fathom it; but this I have resolved upon-I leave Nantucket for New York tomorrow. I have health, youth, strength, and a fair education. With these qualifications, and a stout heart and steady will to bear me on, it will be hard if I cannot falsify Mr. Baxter's words." 
               He ceased speaking, and waited for some time for Laura's reply. It was some time before she could trust herself to speak. At length she said hurriedly, as if for the mere sake of breaking the painful silence: 
               "And have you really no clue to your parents?" 
               "I know not whether they be living or dead. I have heard that I was adopted when a child, by an old sailor whose name I bear; and when he went to sea, I was placed at school by Mr. Baxter. Why he took that interest in such a stray waif as me, I know not. Allen, the sailor, went, I have been told, on a voyage to the South seas, and has never since been heard of." 
               "It is strange," said Laura; "you are, like me, alone in the world. My father and mother died when I was too young to feel their loss, or even to recollect them. My earliest recollection is of an old woman whom I used to call nurse, and I was taken from her charge when I could not have been more than six years old and, placed at school in New York by Captain Martingale, who used occasionally to call and see me, and give me pocket money-and when I was twelve years old, he came to fetch me to Harpoon Lodge, where I have since resided. Before I left school, I was called into the school-mistress' parlor, and was then told that Captain Martingale was my guardian; and that, according to the will of my father, he was to have charge of me, and the small fortune my father left me, until I was eighteen, and that then I was to become my own mistress; or, prior to that, if I should marry according to Captain Martingale's wishes. My guardian has hitherto behaved kindly to me-though he is so rough and stern to everybody else; but now-" 
               She suddenly ceased speaking, as if fearful of explaining anything further; and as they had arrived within a quarter of a mile of the Lodge, Allen assisted her to dismount, for she did not wish her guardian to know how she had been engaged. 
               "Miss Denman-Laura," said the young man, as he took her hand, "I must now wish you 'good-by.'" He hesitated, and then added, "I have yet a favor to ask:-If I write to you, directing my letters to be left at the post office at --, will you receive them?-will you reply to them?" 
                
               "I will," replied Laura, after a pause-"I will, Charles,-good-by, and success attend you. You have my warmest wishes." 
               "Then I am sure to succeed," said the youth, with assumed gaiety-lifting Laura's hand unresistingly to his lips. He then sprang on his horse, and leading the palfrey from which Laura had dismounted, was soon out of sight. 
               Laura walked slowly towards the Lodge; a variety of conflicting thoughts agitated her bosom. Did Charles love her? He had not said so. Neither of them had given expression to words of love, and yet she felt-both felt that they were loved. At any rate, from the moment of that parting, if before there had been any hope for an alteration in Laura's feelings with regard to Henry Benson, it was extinguished forever. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               THE CONFINEMENT AND THE ESCAPE. 
               "COME Laura, come lass-you've been a long time gone. Where's the fish you promised to bring home for supper. Got none? had bad luck, eh? well, that's a pity. Cook would have been glad of them to help out her supper to-night; but never mind, girl-never mind. Go up to the cuddy, and bend on your best rigging. I've got a surprise for you. Henry Benson's come while you've been away, and he will take a berth aboard the Lodge for some time-so look your best to-night, Laura. 
               "Mr. Benson come! guardian?" she asked. "Mister-Benson-come, guardian?" 
               "Yes, Mr. Benson has come. Why, what a face the girl puts on!-as long as the skipper of a whaler's phiz who is coming home with a clean hold. You women folks are strange critters-one never knows what tack to pull aboard to please you. Come, supper'll be ready in twenty minutes. The steward rung "seven bells" ten minutes ago, and at "eight bells" supper will be on the table." 
               Laura ascended to her own room (which was designated in Captain Martingale's nautical language as the "cuddy," in contradistinction to the "cabin" occupied by himself) in no very enviable frame of mind. Just having parted from Charles Allen, and parted, at all events for a long period-perhaps forever; for the first time perceiving the true state of her heart with regard to him, Henry Benson was the last person on earth she would have wished to have met. But there was no help for it-and she prepared with a beating heart to attire herself in a fitting manner to preside at her guardian's table. 
               Meanwhile let us briefly introduce Henry Benson to the reader. Captain Martingale had called him handsome. He might have been so in the Captain's eyes. If beauty consisted in herculean proportions, and good breeding, in rough, free and easy, and overbearing manners, he possessed it in a remarkable degree. He was not ugly-indeed his features were regular, and he might have been styled good-looking, had it not been for the expression of mingled cunning and ferocity which they constantly wore, and which was so marked as to render him repulsive. 
               He had several times visited Captain Martingale; but although the young man had rather courted the society of the neighboring residents, no one liked him; all seemed to fear or mistrust him. Indeed, people wondered what the rough but honest old captain could see in him to esteem so highly. It was apparently a mystery-one of those strange, inexplicable fancies which sometimes lead us to love or hate, without knowing why or wherefore; one of those prejudices which sometimes incline us to fix our friendship on an unworthy object, and at other times to reject the friendship of the really deserving. Some folks said it was merely the attraction of a fellow feeling because Benson was a sailor; though where he sailed to, or to what department of the profession he belonged, no one knew Perhaps not even old Martingale himself. However, Benson listened to the old skipper's yarns and told tales of his own adventures; and perhaps this was the manner in which he had managed to fascinate the old man. Enough at present to know that Captain Martingale had resolved in his own mind that Benson should marry his ward. 
               Laura joined the party at the supper table; but although the Captain told his best jokes, at which she had always laughed before, and although Benson was assiduous in his attentions, she was dull and low-spirited, and the meal passed off heavily enough. At its conclusion, Laura pleaded a violent head-ache and retired to her own room. 
               The Captain and Benson sat drinking and smoking until a late hour; and it was near midnight when Laura heard the heavy steps of the former ascending the stairs. He tapped at her door. She arose from her bed, and hastily slipped on her clothing, opened the door, and admitted him. He was much intoxicated, and in rough language, such as he had never used to her before, he assailed her for having left the table after supper, and concluded by demanding to know whether she would consent to marry Benson. 
               "Never," exclaimed Laura, driven to desperation by this behavior on the part of her guardian. "Never, nor will I remain another day in this house. Your conduct to-night has absolved me from your right of guardianship." 
               "Ha! ha! we shall see, we shall see," said the captain. "Consider yourself under arrest. I shall confine you to your cabin until you consent to obey my orders. I'll have no mutinous behavior in Harpoon Lodge. If you were not a woman, I'd flog you, by --." So saying he closed the door, locked it, and took away the key, leaving Laura a prisoner. 
               The poor girl burst into tears. They were a relief to her overwrought feelings, and she resolved, at all hazards, never to consent to her guardian's wishes. The morrow came; she had passed a sleepless night, and the Captain brought in her breakfast, telling her he should keep her a close prisoner until she consented to see Benson. She made no reply, and thus the day passed away, and the night and another day were thus spent, and on the following morning Captain Martingale, in a towering rage, told her that he had heard that that infernal land-lubber, Charles Allen, had clandestinely left home the day after he had been seen riding out with her. "I see it all now," said he, "and I was a foggy-headed old fool not to have seen it before. I might have known that you had been listening to the deceitful yarns of some cussed land-lubber. But don't think, minx, to get the better of me. If you do, it will be the first time old Martingale has been brow-beaten on board his own ship." 
               Still Laura made no reply; and again the key was turned, and she was left alone, a close prisoner. She possessed, however, a spirit not to be daunted by the spirit of persecution. She resolved to attempt an escape, and waited patiently till night came on to effect her purpose. It was a difficult undertaking for a female-a desperate resolve. Her apartments were on the upper story of the lodge, and the front windows looked down upon a paved balcony, to attempt to reach which would have involved certain destruction; but there was another small window, scarcely large enough for her to squeeze her body through, which looked out into the garden, and a friendly peartree spread its branches close to the window. Laura's resolution was taken. She hastily put together a bundle of clothing, concealed what little money she had about her person; and, first casting the bundle into the garden, she forced herself through the window, and caught the nearest branch of the tree. It was weak, and she feared would not bear her weight; but she was desperate-death she felt more preferable to life under the circumstances. She grasped the branch, breathing at the same moment a prayer to heaven, and swung herself into the tree. The bough creaked and bent beneath her weight; it cracked and she thought all was over. She endeavored to collect her thoughts and to resign herself to her fate-still, she instinctively grasped at the stronger branches, shooting perpendicularly from the trunk. Thank God! she gained these, and was safe; but another danger now threatened her. The watch dog, a ferocious mastiff, had become alarmed at the unwonted noise, and rushing to the base of the tree, commenced barking furiously. Captain Martingale was awakened, and she heard his voice calling to the dog, and saw his head covered with a red woollen night-cap, peering out of the window, and the muzzle of a well-known blunderbuss pointed towards her. She felt that he could not perceive her through the close branches in the darkness of the night, while she could plainly perceive his movements in consequence of the light in the room-and she resolved to trust to the generous instincts of the dog, with whom she was a favorite. 
               "Hush, hush, Csar! It is I," she whispered softly. The dog pricked up his ears at the sound of the well-known voice, wagged his tail, and ceased barking. As if he knew her object, and wished to aid her escape, he left the foot of the tree, and went round beneath his master's window. Benson was in conversation with the Captain; Laura heard him say, "The dog must have been frightened at some fancied noise. It is nothing, or he would not come fawning beneath the window." 
               Captain Martingale spoke to the dog, half angrily, half caressingly, and the window was closed again. 
               Cautiously, Laura descended the tree, and stood on terra firma. She picked up the bundle she had thrown out, and proceeded hurridly through the garden followed by the mastiff. Arrived at the gate, she stooped, and caressing the animal said: 
               "Poor Csar! I am going to leave you, good dog. Go back to your kennel, Csar." 
               The dog gave a long, low whine, looked after her anxiously for some moments, and slowly and quietly returned to the house. 
               With hasty steps, Laura fled to the cottage of the old fisherman, Peter, and was admitted after due questioning by his astonished and alarmed wife. Peter had also arisen, and stood wonderingly awaiting an explanation of this strange nocturnal visit. 
               A few words sufficed to explain all, and excited the strong commiseration of the worthy old couple. 
               "And now, Peter," said Laura, "what shall I do? You will help me to escape from this place? I will not go back alive." 
                
               "I will help you with all my heart, Miss Laura-but what do you intend to do?" 
               "I wish to reach New York unsuspected. Mr. Allen is there; I may find him, and he will perhaps advise me what further to do." 
               "Poor lass!-poor lass!" said Peter, "what can I do for thee?" 
               His wife called him aside, and whispered in his ear. 
               He again addressed Laura- 
               "There is a schooner in the bay which will sail for New York at daylight," said he. "If you would not object to going on board of her, the master will pay you every attention for my sake; but the night is rough for such a delicate one as thee to be abroad." 
               "I will go anywhere-anywhere!" exclaimed Laura. "Thank you-thank you, Peter." 
               In less than half an hour they were on their way to the schooner. Peter and Laura went on board, and the captain of the schooner readily promised to convey Laura safely to New York. 
               The wind had risen fearfully since midnight, and it was dangerous for Peter to venture to return, for the gale was blowing dead from the shore-nevertheless, he was obliged to leave. He waited till the schooner got under weigh, then bade Laura farewell, and stepped into his fragile bark. 
                
               On the following morning there was a great hue and cry at Harpoon Lodge; Laura could not be found, and Captain Martingale was frantic with rage. And it was not long before there was a wail of woe in the village, for the boat of the old fisherman was picked up bottom upwards in the bay. He had been capsized while returning from the schooner, and then his frantic widow told how Miss Laura Denman, driven from the Lodge by the cruelty of her guardian, had fled to her husband's cottage, and how he had endeavored to take her on board a schooner in the bay, and both had, as was generally believed, perished in the storm. Benson felt it safest to leave the Lodge forthwith, for the people of the village were exasperated against him. Captain Martingale also was bitterly assailed; but he found his punishment in his own anguished feelings, for he really loved his ward. 
               There was a wail of woe and mourning over the village of Barnstable, and it was long before the excitement that had been created in the peaceful hamlet subsided. 
               The storm which had commenced to blow on the night of Laura's escape from Harpoon Lodge, was one of fearful violence and long duration. The coast was strewed with wrecks, and many wives were made widows, and children fatherless, by its destructive fury. It is still remembered as a dark era in the annals of Nantucket. 
                
               The flight of Charles Allen, no one knew whither, was an event which, in that small community, was productive of great excitement and much speculation. And Benson-there were strange stories afloat regarding him, though no one well knew on what authority they were founded-and there was deep commiseration for the fate of poor Laura, for it soon became known that the schooner in which she sailed had been wrecked, and although the crew was saved, the lady who had come on board as a passenger was missing. It was of course supposed that she was lost. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               NEEDLEWOMEN IN NEW YORK. 
               WE left Laura Denman sleeping in the apartment of Bridget Connolly (this was the name of the woman who befriended her), after her unfortunate and weary journey to New York. 
               In truth, the poor girl was dreadfully frightened. She needed not the widow's exhortation to sleep. Scarcely had she lain herself down in the clean though humble bed, ere her senses were locked in slumber; and, perchance, if fancy were not busy in dreams-and she was probably too tired to dream-she forgot, in these brief hours of slumber, all her woes. 
               She was awakened before she thought she had slept an hour, by the gentle touch of the fruit woman. 
               "Wake up dear! wake up!" she said. "It's almost time I was going to my stall. I've let ye sleep as long as I could, for I know ye must ha' been mortal tired; but, come, now, get up and take some breakfast. I've made some nice hot coffee, and got a fresh loaf. Come, now, get up and ate a hearty breakfast afore I take ye up stairs and inthroduce ye to Miss Mildmay, who I spake to ye about last night. 
               Laura opened her eyes, and, rising on her elbow, looked vacantly around her, and then at her kind hostess. For some moments she could scarcely realize her condition. The cold, gray light of the November morning was streaming in faintly through the one widow of the low basement-tenement, which, tidy and cleanly as it was, looked humble and desolate enough to Laura. Some singular confusion of ideas crossed her mind, in which the elegance and comfort of her room at Harpoon Lodge-"The Cuddy," as the eccentric old captain had called it-the lonely discomfort of the little cabin in the storm-tossed and ill-fated schooner, and the dingy darkness of Widow Connolly's basement, were mingled together in inextricable confusion. 
               At length she recalled her wandering senses, and, as the full sense of her loneliness and destitution came to her mind, she could scarcely restrain the tears that rushed to her eyes. She would gladly have buried her face in the pillow and wept freely; but the sight of the kind old woman's face made her desirous to conceal her emotion. 
               She checked the choking sensations in her throat, and assuming a smile, thanked Bridget for her consideration in allowing her to sleep so long, and springing from the bed, speedily dressed herself, and at the widow's request, seated herself at the breakfast table. 
               "Now, ate heartily, dear," said Bridget, "ye'll perhaps be used to better food; but the coffee's hot and strong, and the milk's sweet and fresh, and the bread and butther's just fetched in from the grocery; so, darlin', make a good male." 
               The fare was homely; but, as the widow said, it was good of its kind; and Laura had suffered so much from hunger, during the previous three or four days, that her appetite was craving; and despite her sorrows, she did eat heartily of the widow's fare; and when her hunger was partly appeased, Bridget asked her further questions in relation to the cause of her leaving her home, and with regard to her present intentions and future prospects-all of which Laura satisfied to the best of her ability. 
               "I promised ye, last night, to take ye up stairs to the sewing girl as rents a room in the attic. She, may be,'ll be able to tell ye how to go about getting work, and ye can stay with her till I come home in the evening, and then tell me how ye get on: I'm sorry to hurry ye, dear; but, I ought to have been out an hour since, so as to catch the childher a-going to school, and the young girls going to work at the bookfolder's, and such like places; ye'd wondher how many apples and sticks of candy I sell of a morning, I do most the best thrade then of any part o' the day." 
               Laura thanked the old woman, and professed her readiness to accompany her kind hostess to the apartment of the sewing-girl; and the meal being finished, the fruit-baskets brought out of the cupboard, and the room "righted up" for the day, Bridget Connolly led the way up stairs, leaving her baskets below and ready at hand against she came down. 
               Having reached the topmost story, after ascending several flights of stairs, and winding through numerous passages, the widow tapped at a door at the head of the last landing, and a low, gentle voice, said, "Come in." 
               Bridget opened the door, and Laura followed her into the room, and saw seated at an uncovered deal table, a young female busily plying the needle. 
               She looked up as her visitors entered, with an expression of surprise, momentarily resting from her work; but recognizing the fruit woman, she smiled and said: 
               "Ah! is it you Mrs. Connolly, that have paid me so early a visit? Do you know, I was afraid it was a messenger from Bailey about my work?-and it isn't finished yet. Take a seat; and you, Miss," she continued, rising and bringing forward an old worn settee, the only seat in the room except the chair she occupied. "What has induced you to call so early?" and she glanced inquiringly and hopefully at Laura, whose lady-like appearance justified her hope that the widow, who had done her many little favors, had brought her a customer who might require work done of a more remunerative description than that on which she was employed. 
               "You're very early to work, Miss Mildmay," said Bridget, pityingly, as she glanced around the apartment, "sure ye must have breakfasted in good time, for I see you've put all the breakfast things aside." 
               "I've not breakfasted yet, Mrs. Connolly," replied the girl, "I must get this job done first. I promised to have the shirts at the store at ten o'clock; it's now nearly eight, and I have a great deal to do, though I worked till eleven last night, and rose at four this morning." 
               "What! have you been working since four o'clock by candlelight? Miss Mildmay, ye'll be killing yerself, dear-killing yerself by inches." 
               "Not working all the time!" said the poor girl, sadly, yet still endeavoring to appear cheerful, "for my candle burnt to the socket just as the clock down stairs struck six, and I was left quite in the dark-for it does not get light enough to see to work till seven. I was very tired." 
               She need not have said that she was tired, fatigue was visibly imprinted in her face, and the languor of her movements when she rose from her seat, told plainly enough how much she needed rest. 
               "Poor thing! poor thing!" muttered the widow, with a sigh. Then recollecting the errand that had brought her to Louisa Mildmay's room, she said aloud: 
               "Miss Mildmay, I have brought this young la--this young woman to you, in the hope that you can recommend her to some employment; she wants to get some sewing to do-can't ye inthroduce her at the store?" 
               The poor girl was evidently disappointed; her anticipations of more remunerative employment had been suddenly dashed aside, and she was still more surprised, as she looked again earnestly at Laura, and wondered how a young woman so richly clad, so evidently unused to labor, could have become reduced to such extreme destitution, as to seek for slop-work from the stores in order to maintain herself. 
               The fruit woman noticed the surprise depicted in her countenance, and Laura's pride for the moment shrank, as she too witnessed the expression of surprise mingled with pity. She felt humiliated, to think that one so lowly as this poor, hardworking creature should pity her.
                
               But the feeling lasted but for a moment, as her gaze fell upon the attenuated form and pale face of the girl, who, notwithstanding the poverty of her attire, had evidently known better days. Then she thought how soon she might become reduced to the like distress-nay, was she not already so? Her attire was that of a lady, for the honest fruit woman had dried and smoothed it ere she had awakened her that morning. She felt that it was ill fitted to her present condition, and then the thought crossed her mind how this poverty was of her own seeking, for she was convinced that her guardian would gladly receive her home again at Harpoon Lodge; and, for the first time since she had quitted Nantucket, notwithstanding the, mishaps she had since met with, she almost repented of her flight, half resolved to return and throw herself upon the generosity of the old captain. But in a moment, her pride and independence of spirit, her repugnance towards Henry Benson, banished the half-formed resolution from her mind; and, as the young woman was still regarding her, as if she expected her to speak-she said: 
               "Yes, Miss Mildmay, I am indeed anxious to obtain employment, and Mrs. Connolly was kind enough to say she'd introduce me to you." 
               "An' now, I shall leave ye's to talk together find settle matters," said the fruit woman; "and meantime, since, most like, ye won't be provided with breakfast and dinner for the visitor ye did'nt expect, an' I shant be back till evening, I've just made bowld, Miss Mildmay, to fetch up a thrifle of ateables from my own cupboard'-and she placed upon the table a large parcel wrapped in brown paper, which she had packed up, unseen by Laura, and which contained the bread and butter and coffee and sugar, left from the morning meal, to which a few rashers of bacon had been added. 
                
               "I thought I'd bring this up, Miss Mildmay," she said in a deprecating tone, as she laid the parcel down, as though she felt ashamed of her charity-"bekase there'll be two mouths to fill in your room to-day, dear;" but, as she uttered these words, the expression of sorrow and compassion in her voice and in her eyes, told, clearly enough, what were the feelings which had prompted her to the benevolent deed. She had half surmised that Louisa Mildmay might stand in need of food herself, as well as feel the necessity she was under of providing for the charge she had imposed upon her that day; and when she had entered the room her quick glance-used as she was by past experience, and by present association to poverty in every place-at once told her that Louisa's breakfast had been delayed that naming, not because she was anxious to get the work she was engaged upon finished, but because, until it was finished, and carried to the store, and the hard earned pittance paid that she expected to receive for her labor, no breakfast could be procured. 
               "An' now I must be agoing, Miss Mildmay," she continued, "for I'll be late at the stall this morning, any how. Good-by, an' I'll see ye both in the evening. 
               She was about to quit the room, leaving the two young women together; but Louisa, who had readily divined her kindly motive, rose, and grasped her by the hand- 
               "Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Connolly," she said, and the tears rushed to her eyes, and her nostrils quivered, and her pale lips trembled, as she spoke; "but you cannot, you should not attempt to hide the kindness of your heart from me. I know why you brought this food up stairs. God bless you, and He will bless you for your goodness." 
               "Whisht! Miss Mildmay, whisht!" said Bridget, her own eyes filling with tears, and her hard-featured yet kindly and not uncomely visage, assuming an almost ludicrous expression, as the muscles worked to and fro, in the vain endeavor to hide her emotion. "Whisht! honey-it's just nothing; I thought maybe a thrifle of coffee an' sugar an' butther'd be welcome to ye-that's all; an' as to goodness, dear, recollect, Miss Mildmay, that there's only One ye should apply that term to." 
               "Oh, yes; surely to those whom He inclines to assist the distressed; but, Mrs. Connolly, why do you style me Miss Mildmay, now. Call me simply, Louisa; the other appellation, now, seems a mockery; and why should I hear that term of respect from you-you, from whom I am so often in the receipt of charity." 
               "Och! don't mintion it-don't mintion it, anyhow; an' why shouldn't I call yees Miss Mildmay? whin I know'd ye whin ye was able to hould up your head wid the best among 'em; but sure, if ye don't like me to give ye a title, don't ye call me Misthress Connolly again, bekase it's not besaming for the likes of you to addhress me wid that mark ov rispect. Call me Bridget, and I'll call you Louisa. So now, sure, I'm even wid yees." 
               And quite recovered from her temporary and unaccustomed emotion, the good old woman bustled down stairs, laughing till her fat sides shook again, at what she conceived to be the wit of her reparte. 
               The two young women were left together, and for some minutes a degree of uncomfortable restraint existed. Their introduction to each other had been so abrupt, the cause of it so singular, and, on the part of Louisa Mildmay, so unexpected, that neither felt for the moment capable of renewing the subject; and Louisa, laying aside her work, hastened to prepare the table for breakfast. 
               "Have you breakfasted, Miss-Miss-?" she said at length, inquiringly. 
               "Yes," replied Laura, "I breakfasted with Mrs. Connolly; but," she continued smilingly, "you would know my name? My kind old introductor omitted to give it, and I, until now did not notice the omission. It is Denman-Laura Denman." 
               The restraint once broken, the rest was easy. It does not take long, under any circumstances, for two females to get acquainted, even if their ages do not assimilate, and when they do, one half hour will set them as much at ease in each other's company as it would require days and weeks for two of the sterner sex to attain. 
               Laura, while Louisa was at her breakfast, made known to her humble and newly acquired friend as much as she thought necessary of the circumstances which brought her, so seemingly unused, so apparently unfitted, to earn her bread by daily toil-to seek work in the humble capacity of a sewing girl-and Louisa promised, as soon as the work she was then employed on was completed, to take her to the store with her and recommend her to the proprietor. 
               "But, Miss Denman," she added, "Mr. Bailey is a rough man to those in his employ, and his clerks are often rude. I am afraid you may be addressed in a style to which you have never before been accustomed." 
               "Then," said Laura, "I must learn to accustom myself to it. If you can endure it, so must I. You, or I am greatly mistaken, have not always been obliged to earn your living by sewing, and to live in this humble way." 
               "No, not always; but so long," said Louisa, heaving a deep sigh, "so long" she repeated, "that I have had ample time to become used to it." 
               "It is only for a time I want this humble employment," said Laura. "As soon as I can look about me, and have got accustomed to the city, I shall seek something more respect-," she checked herself, and added, "more remunerative." 
               Louisa looked inquiringly at her, and she continued: 
               "I can play the piano pretty well-not quite well enough to become a professor, perhaps-and I can draw a little, and do embroidery and fine sewing; so I shall soon be able, I think, to earn enough to keep me comfortably; or, perhaps, I may obtain a situation as teacher in a school." 
               "And all that you say you can do, so can I do," replied Lousia, sadly. "And yet, you see how hard I am obliged to work, and how poorly, how wretchedly I am paid! My clothing is scant and poor-nay, sometimes I want even food." 
               "How is that?" asked Laura. "Have you never sought better remuneration and easier work?" 
               "Yes, often, formerly-not of late. I found it useless." 
               "Useless!" 
               "Yes, utterly useless, Miss Denman. There are hundreds, aye thousands of our sex in this city, earning their bread, as I have been doing now for three years, with their needles, slowly but surely wearing away their lives, who are mistresses of the accomplishments I possess, perhaps equal to you, in that regard." 
               "And how is this?" asked Laura. 
               "Simply because the supply is greater than the demand, for such employments as are considered desirable and are reasonably remunerative. Even those, who are proficients in the accomplishments you speak of, find difficulty in making them available; to those who, as is the case with most young ladies who receive what is termed a liberal education, have but a superficial acquaintance with those accomplishments-sufficient, perhaps, to satisfy themselves and to amuse their friends while fortune smiles upon them, when fortune frowns and flies, and poverty comes in at the door-they are useless, worse than useless, for they only make the cup of poverty more bitter." 
               Laura did not reply; but the deep shade of sadness that rested upon her features betrayed the gloomy thoughts that were passing and repassing in her mind. 
               Louisa had finished her breakfast, and was again about to take up her work, when Laura, awakening from her reverie, offered to assist her." 
               "Perhaps," she said smilingly, "I am unable to do even this plain work properly, or at least with sufficient celerity to earn my bread at it. Let me help you, and so practice a little before I am called upon to work for myself." 
                
               "I thank you," said Louisa. "Your assistance will be valuable, for I ought to have these shirts finished now. I shall be sadly scolded when I go to the store with them, especially if the proprietor happens to be in an unamiable mood; but, I promise you, simple as is the work, you will find even it difficult at first, and very different from working for your own pleasure and convenience." 
               "And difficult did Laura find it, and much she wondered at the swiftness with which Louisa plied her needle; but she resolved not to give up, and really, though she by no means did her share of the work, her assistance enabled Louisa, much to her relief, to get it finished by half-past nine o'clock. There was yet time, if they hurried, to get to the store in Chatham street before the clock struck ten-and they did reach it in time-the City Hall clock struck the hour just as they entered, somewhat to the annoyance of Mr. Hezekiah Bailey, the proprietor, who was standing behind the counter when Louisa entered, and who first glanced at her with the bundle of shirts in her arms, and then at the clock, and then knit his brows and compressed his lips, as he thought that at least on the score of punctuality he had nothing to complain of, and was thus defrauded of one of his customary little pleasurable excitements. 
               Mr. Bailey was a short, stout, dapper little man, with a bald head, round which a fringe of yellowish red hair grew scantily, and was carefully brushed over the top to conceal as much as possible his baldness. He possessed a pair of very light blue eyes, shaded with eyelashes, stunted as though they had been singed with a candle, and eyebrows of the same color, scant, and barely perceptible. His nose was of the classical form, known vulgarly as a "pug," while his ample, sensual mouth, with its heavy lips, seldom concealed a set of uneven, yellow teeth; for he was continually either snarling at his employees or smirking at his own vain conceits, and therefore constantly showing them. If he ever possessed beard, whiskers, or moustache tache, no one but himself and his wife knew of the fact, for he prided himself on a clean, well-shaven visage, as marking in a special manner his respectability, and testing to his morality (he was deacon of his church); and on that account always wore an immaculately white neckcloth, a black coat, pantaloons, and vest, and high-low boots, completed his outward attire. 
               He was what may be termed a man well to do in the world, and made it his especial boast that he had "made himself, sir." He had been born in the precincts of that classical locality, known as the Five Points; and he always asserted that he once had a father and mother, though who they were, how they lived, and when they died, he did not know; he had been educated at the House of Refuge for the Destitute, and had subsequently graduated in a lawyer's office, where, from having been taken in as an errand boy, he had been promoted by his employer to serve writs, and do such like unpleasant duties, connected with certain branches of the legal profession; and from his pertinacity in sticking to his man, until, by hook or by crook, he had managed to place the disagreeable mandate in the hands of his victim, he had acquired, amongst the naughty boys of his acquaintance, the soubriquet of the "bailiff," which, when some years afterwards he commenced to speculate, and then went into business on his own account, he softened into "Bailey." Until his eighteenth year he had been always called Hezekiah. He had never before boasted a surname. 
               Being naturally sharp and shrewd, he had managed, without any capital to commence with, to amass a considerable sum of money by buying and selling fancy stocks; and, at the age of twenty-five, he had married a widow, who kept a readymade shirt-store in Chatham street, which, under his skillful superintendence, had, in twenty-five years more, grown to a large establishment of its kind; and Mr. Hezekiah Bailey was beginning to be a man of some notoriety in his ward. Already he had twice been "candidate for the Common Council;" and, although he had both times been beaten, because he unfortunately nately espoused the wrong side in politics, his friends all assured him, that if he ran again, he would be sure to "go in and win." Take him all in all, Mr. Hezekiah Bailey was a respectable man-in fact, a very respectable man, as the world wags. 
               Towards this gentleman Louisa was timidly advancing, when she and Laura were both pushed aside by a couple of viragoes, who, as it appeared from the bundles in their arms, had come on a similar errand. 
               The elder of the two threw her bundle down on the counter, and stood with her arms a-kimbo, while Mr. Bailey leisurely, as became a man of respectability, proceeded to open it. He examined the work, and apparently made some deprecatory remarks; but the woman, in an angry tone, replied to him in a manner which silenced him. 
               "I want my money for the work I've done, and then, I don't care if I never set foot in your dirty store again," she said; while she was seconded by her companion, who had also untied her bundle and laid the work out upon the counter. 
               "My good woman, these shirts are unsaleable. Look here!" and he ripped a seam from top to bottom, with a sudden jerk. "Who would purchase such goods as these? They might lie on my shelves for years, until they rotted." 
               "And who can do better work for a shilling a shirt?" asked the woman, in a still louder voice. "I must have my dues, or I'll raise a dust about your ears that'll make you glad enough to pay me," and the virago dared to shake her fist in Mr. Bailey's face, greatly to the delight of two clerks, who were seemingly very demurely and busily occupied in another part of the store. Whatever was the reason, Mr. Bailey, as we have said, was silenced. He seemed to be afraid of some disagreeable exposure, so he paid the sum demanded, notwithstanding the injury he had himself inflicted on the work; but, at the same time, he informed the woman and her companion, in his blandest tones, that they need not apply for work at his store again. 
               "And much I care for that, you cheat-you old skinflint, I'd be sorry to take it at your hands. I can go out a choring, and earn more money doing odd chores, than I can by making shirts. Bad luck to you and your work," and she and her companion left the store, grumbling as they went. 
               "And now, my dear, let me see your work," said Mr. Bailey, addressing Louisa-his original intention of scolding her, either having undergone a change, or else, having been bullied into a temporary mild demeanor. "Are all the six garments here?" 
               "Yes, sir," said the young woman, producing her bundle. 
               "Very good. Now let me see if you have made good work of it this time," and, examining the goods, he added, "still the same carelessness, I see-too few stitches, and not very neatly sewed." 
               "Really, sir," said the young woman, humbly, "I have done my best; there is a good deal of work to do on them, and I am only paid one shilling a shirt, and I have been very unwell of late." 
               "That is no business of mine, my dear, your being unwell. Thank God! we are all liable to sickness. I have sickness in my family, sometimes; but it would never do for me to neglect my business on such occasions; and then one shilling for making such shirts as these, is really very good pay; it is, indeed, quite too much, as things go now. If the times continue so hard, I shall have to come down to ten cents. I should be sorry to do so, for the Scripture says, "The laborer is worthy of his hire." And I take a pleasure in being liberal to my work people-otherwise, I could get them for much less-and I believe the work would be better done too." 
               "If I could get finer work, I think I could give you satisfaction, sir," said the young woman. "The pay would be better and I could afford to spend more time upon them." 
               "That's out of the question, young woman," returned the storekeeper. "Why, do you know there's a number of farmers' daughters-real ladies, as I may say-who are glad to do all my fine work, for amusement in their leisure hours, for just what I please to pay them. It provides them with pocket-money. I have no need to seek far to put out my fine work." 
               "Ah!" sighed the young woman, as if speaking to herself. "If such as they only knew what wretchedness their poor sisters in the city suffer, they would not-I am sure they would not-thus take the work from their hands, and the bread from their mouths." 
               Meanwhile the storekeeper had been critically examining the shirts, and he now observed- 
               "As I said, young woman, this work might be better done, still it is passable, and as you are civil spoken, if you call at my house in -- street, at ten o'clock to-night-you know where it is, you have been there before-I will pay you the money for these, and I will give you the material for some more." 
               "Oh! sir," said Louisa, "I cannot call at your house again. Do not ask me," and she seemed to shrink back from the storekeeper, as she spoke, with a feeling akin to abhorrence. "Cannot you pay the money now? It is only six shillings; I have really need for it." 
               "I cannot, I have nothing less than a five dollar bill in the store; besides, I have the linen I want to give you, at home." 
               "I will gladly get change, sir, and will willingly call again for the new material." 
               "And run off with the five dollar bill, eh? A pretty fool I should be, to trust you with a five dollar bill!" 
               "Sir!" said Louisa, in a tone of indignation; but apparently recollecting that she was entirely at the mercy of her grinding employer, she restrained her anger at the cruel suspicion, and said: 
               "I wish you could pay me now, I have really need of the money." 
               "It seems to me that you are a very obstinate young female," said Mr. Bailey. "If it comes to that, the work isn't properly done, and I won't pay you at all. There!" he continued, as he ripped open a seam, "why the thread's perfectly rotten, take the work back again, young woman, and do it over again, and then I'll pay you." 
               Louisa burst into tears, as she witnessed this wanton destruction and waste of many hours of weary toil, and the callous shopkeeper somewhat softened. 
               "Come, come," he said, "dry your eyes, my dear; they are too pretty to be spoiled with crying; and come up to my house to-night, and I'll pay you for this job, and perhaps find you some pleasanter work to do." 
               There was a cunning leer in his eyes as he spoke, which Louisa could not help observing, even had she less cause to do so, and she exclaimed, indignantly, "Never, sir, never!-I will never again take any work from your store. God help me!-for every effort I make to help myself, seems to avail me naught," and she turned and walked proudly out of the store, followed by Laura, who had been an indignant witness of all that had been said and done. 
               Louisa said not a word; but she walked into a store near by, and there procured some fresh work, and also employment on similar terms for Laura, and the two young women returned home to their humble lodgings in Greenwich street. 
                
               "They're a troublesome set to deal with, those needle-women," said Mr. Bailey to his head clerk, after Louisa and Laura had left. "Some of them bully one into compliance with their exorbitant demands, or else make such absurd complaints, that a parcel of sickly sentimental stories get into the newspapers about grasping employers, and starving work-women, and so forth; and others, like that young minx who has just walked out, put on as many airs as if they were fine ladies. I've no patience with them; but she's a good-looking young woman, and I know she's near starving, and I'll bring her to my terms yet, see if I don't." 
                
               It was in no happy state of mind that Louisa and Laura set themselves to work, after they had partaken of the remainder of the provision so kindly left them by the Widow Connolly. Both were destitute of money, and one had been brutally refused the scanty compensation due her for her task-work; but after some time they fell into conversation; poor Louisa became more cheerful than usual, so glad she was of the companionship, so long desired, of a female of her own age, to whom she could converse freely, and confide her sorrows and her hopes-if, poor creature! all hope in the future had not died within her breast. And Laura told more minutely the causes of her having fled from comfort and plenty, at her home in Nantucket; and then, without pressing her too closely, she sought to induce Louisa to tell the story of her woes, and to relate how she, evidently bred to move in a higher social sphere, had thus become reduced; and at length Louisa consented to tell her history. 
               "It is a long and sad story," she said. "You will stay with me, Miss Denman, to-night. It is so long since I have had a companion to talk to, that I shall feel wretched if you leave me; and this evening, after tea, I will tell you all. The tale will serve to while away the long evening hours, for I must work late to-night, since Mr. Bailey has robbed me of the little store I hoped to possess to-day." 
               At this moment, the heavy step of Bridget Connolly was heard ascending the stairs, and soon she reached the landing, gave a light knock at the door, and, without waiting for permission, for she knew she was welcome, entered the room. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               CHARLES ALLEN CONFIDES IN DR. CHEESEMAN. 
               CHARLES ALLEN, after he left Laura, on the occasion mentioned in a preceding chapter, rode slowly home with the palfrey which he deposited in the stable, and then taking the horse he rode himself, to Dr. Cheeseman's stable, he dismounted, took off the saddle and bridle, and stabled the animal, and was about to return home, when the doctor himself, who had been walking in the garden, strode into the stable and entered into conversation with the youth, who was something of a favorite with the old man. 
                
               A kind, good old man, was Dr. Cheeseman, who, though hale and hearty as a young man of thirty, was now verging towards his seventieth year. 
               He used to boast that he had attended at the birth, rocked the cradles, and danced at the weddings of every married couple of forty years of age and under, in the vicinity of --, and this with truth, for he was the only medical man in the neighborhood. The climate of Nantucket, and the simple style of living-the general tone of morality, engendering staid and quiet habits-that existed in the island, and the absence of all the usual excitements to debauchery, rendered the place rather unfavorable as a business locality to the profession of physic, and the doctor, may be, had he been necessitated to support himself by his practice, would not have possessed such a cheerful, rubicund face, and such a jolly, portly figure as he did; but he was a farmer as well as a physician, and was the owner of a considerable extent of landed property, in the vicinity of --; besides having a few shares in two or three of the whaling craft which hailed from Nantucket-the nursery of America's hardy seamen. All in all, Doctor Cheeseman was, according to the Nantucket estimate, a tolerably wealthy man, and he was a general favorite, especially with the ladies. He was a bachelor. Some folks said, he had been crossed in love in his youthful days, and had since vowed to live single, and as he had failed to gain the object of his early admiration-like a wise man, instead of spurning and snubbing the sex, as many crusty old bachelors are prone to do, he consoled himself in offering a sort of "light o' love" gallantry towards them all. Others, again, asserted that the love of his youth had died before the day which had been appointed for the wedding; and it was very certain that the Doctor always wore round his neck, attached to a black silk riband, a gold locket, which he never showed to any one; though his housekeeper, who had lived with him for years, averred that once she had come behind him softly and unexpectedly, as he was sitting in his easy chair by the fire in his study, and gazing abstractedly at the locket-a habit he was much inclined to-and had seen the portrait of a beautiful girl, encircled in a rim of braided, golden hair; so, as discarded suitors are not wont to set so much and such lasting store upon the image of their lost ones, as to carry her portrait about them for years, the latter surmise was very probably the correct one, although it was quite probable that the gossips were all at fault, and the locket might have contained, for aught any one knew, the picture of a favorite sister or female friend. Be this as it may, no party was considered complete to which Dr. Cheeseman was not invited; and the children especially missed his merry romps, and hearty laughs, and funny stories, and lively jokes. They wouldn't have lacked the cheerful companionship of "Uncle Cheeseman," as the doctor was fondly styled, for all the world; nor would Dr. Cheeseman have been happy without the society of his juvenile friends. He used, jokingly, to say, that the grown-up folks were too old for him to associate with, who was verging upon the age of second childhood, and that he felt happier with his little pets on his knee, listening to their artless prattle, while one pulled his tye-wig away, and another half-stifled him by clinging over the back of his chair, round his neck, than he would have been in the society of lords and kings-or men of wit and learning, a great deal better company than lords and kings are, in a general way. 
               Still he was a favorite with all, old and young; since in that simple community civilization and fashion-synonymous terms, according to the most modern dictionary-had not advanced so far as to deaden the feelings of love and friendship, and render everything subservient to interest. 
               "So you have been borrowing my mare, eh, Master Charley?" said the doctor, as he entered the stable. "And I have a shrewd guess where you have been, too," and he winked slyly at Charles. "My old eyes are pretty keen, and half an hour ago I saw two figures-a lady and gentleman-galloping away, along the road by the sea side; and I am very much deceived if one of them was not Charley Allen, mounted on my good mare, Bess, and the other Miss Laura Denman, the ward of that crusty old chap, Martingale, at the Lodge." 
               "Your eyes did not deceive you, uncle," said Charles, laughingly. He called Dr. Cheesman "uncle," as he had been accustomed to do since he was able to speak. 
               "Captain Martingale has other views with regard to his ward or else I am sadly at fault," continued the doctor, in a graver tone than usual. "He intends to marry her to that fellow, Benson, who, for the life of me, I cannot bear the sight of. Indeed he told me so himself, last Monday, when I went to inquire how the lotion succeeded, that I had sent him to relieve his catarrh, and the old crusty sea-dog had the impudence to tell me to my face that he didn't know or care, since he had thrown it, bottle and all, out of the window, it stunk so con foundedly." 
               "Miss Denman will not consent to marry Henry Benson," said Charles. 
               "Not of her own free will, I believe, boy," replied the doctor. "But young girls, like her, are easily cajoled into succumbing to the views of those who have charge of them, and who necessarily exert considerable influence over them." 
               "Laura Denman is not a girl to be influenced, in a matter of so much importance as that of marriage," said Charles. "When she is eighteen, Captain Martingale's guardianship over her ceases, as I hear. She must be near seventeen now. She will not marry till then." 
               "And then she will marry with one Charles Allen, eh? is that it, boy? Well, I hope that will be the case, for I think that you and she will be better matched, than would Laura and Benson. I can fancy the dark-visaged, stern-looking fellow, leading the pale girl to the altar; no-rather, I don't like to fancy any such thing. It would be a downright monstrosity. If such should ever be the case, Charley, you should step in like a second Lochinvar- 
                      
                        "One touch to her hand and one word in her ear, 
                        When they reached the hall door, and a charger was near- 
                        So light to the croup the fair lady he swung- 
                        So light to the saddle before her he sprung; 
                        She is won, we are gone, over bank, bush, and scaur- 
                        They'll have fleet steeds that follow, quoth young Lochinvar." 
                     
                  
                
               The doctor finished his quotation, and Charles gloomily replied: 
               "When that day comes, if come it ever does, I shall be far away." 
               "Far away! Why, what's come to the boy! What do you mean?" 
               "I don't mind telling you, Dr. Cheeseman, for I know you will not betray me; nobody knows yet but Laura. I told her just now. I am going to leave Nantucket." 
               "Going to leave Nantucket!" exclaimed the Doctor. "Going to leave Nantucket! Why, what has put that notion into your head? It was only the other day, Mr. Baxter was speaking to me about a match he had projected between you and Charlotte." 
               "That is the cause of my resolve," replied Charles. "Mr. Baxter urges me, indelicately as I think, to marry his daughter. Why his heart is so set on that project, I cannot divine; but I will not marry Charlotte Baxter, and hence the cause of my determination to quit Nantucket." 
               "Lotty is pretty and a good girl, and her old father will leave her a pretty penny when he dies," said the Doctor. 
               "I acknowledge all that," said the youth; but one cannot be forced to love. I do not, and never shall love Charlotte Baxter-and therefore I will not marry her. 
               "And, moreover, you have got scent of fairer game, eh, Charley?" replied Dr. Cheeseman. "Well, I dare say, it 'll all come around right in the end-these matters generally do. The course of true love never does run smooth. Still, after rippling over a great many pebbles and forcing their way through many obstacles, I have noticed that the streams of true love generally glide into a placid lake, and mingle together at last. So take heart, boy-take heart. Faint heart never won fair lady. But where do you intend to go, and when?" 
               "To-night, and to New York." 
               "To-night, and to New York. A quick determination, upon my soul. Have you provided for the journey?" 
               "All my things are in readiness, and I have persuaded Captain Jones to take me on board his brig, which sails with the morning tide." 
               "Humph! and have you any money, boy; enough of the needful to support you when you reach the city. 
               "Little enough of that," said Charles, smiling sadly. "Doctor tor Cheeseman, you have brought the conversation to a point that I should have been long in arriving at. You have always been a kind friend to me. I will speak boldly. Will you lend me fifty dollars, to be repaid as soon as possibly I can repay it?" 
               "On what security, Master Charles?" asked the Doctor, assuming a sober, business-like aspect, which sat strangely enough upon his good-humored visage." 
               "On the security of my own honesty of purpose," replied Charles. "If I live, you shall be repaid." 
               "No doubt of that, no doubt of that, boy," said the Doctor, his features relaxing from their unwonted constraint. "But, suppose I let you have the money you ask, what would Mr. Baxter say?" 
               "He need know nothing about it," said Charles. 
               "But I don't know whether it is not my duty to inform him of your intentions," replied the Doctor. 
               "That," said Charles, "I know you will not do." 
               "Well," said the Doctor, "I guess you're about right. You're a cunning fellow, Charles. You know how to get round an old friend, eh? You shall have the money, at seven per cent. interest, not a penny less," and the good old man smiled, as he again endeavored to assume a business tone and aspect. 
               "You shall have ten per cent., if I live, and if not, the consciousness of having done a good action, will bring its own reward," replied Charles gaily. 
               The result was that the money was lent, the old Doctor promised security, and Charles Allen went on his way to seek his fortunes, as we have already described. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               A VISIT TO THE MULGRAVE ISLANDS IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN. 
               IF the reader will examine a map of the world, a common school atlas will do as well as the best, he will find, between the equator and the fifteenth degree of north latitude, and between the hundred and fiftieth and hundred and eighteenth degrees of east longitude, several widely extended groups of islands, known to geographers and navigators as Marshall's, Mulgrave's and Gilbet's Isles; although in fact, but little is known of them at all: they lie out of the common track even of the whale ships that frequent the Pacific Ocean, and are consequently but seldom visited; nay, it is more than probable, that even to this day, there are many islands belonging to these groups, the roadsteads of which have never been ploughed by the keels of the white man's ships. 
               Located in the centre of the larger groups we have named, far remote and almost equi-distant from them all, encompassed with wide-spreading reefs and coral rocks, and rarely visited even by the natives of the nearest adjoining groups, is a cluster of small islands, the largest of which is called by the natives Mattao. These islands are seven or eight in number; but only three of them, Mattao, Ooloo, and Apeah are inhabited; the remainder are still, what three centuries ago were the three larger isles, mere coral reefs, scarcely rising above the surface of the ocean, as yet uncovered with soil. The Island of Mattao is several leagues in circuit, and from the sea beach to the centre, is covered with the most luxuriant vegetation. The land is delightfully diversified by hill and dale, and the valleys present a tangled forest of tropical fruit trees. Here, fields of bananas, laden with their rich yellow pulp. There, groves of bread fruit, intermingled with the slender stems of the papaya, the upper portion of which is bending beneath the weight of its luscious treasure; wild melons, of every conceivable variety, ripen beneath the feet; while the gentle declivities of the hills are thickly grown with orange trees, their dark green foilage contrasting vividly with the brightness of their ripe golden lading. 
               There are few houses to be seen, although the island is thickly inhabited; still, if the voyager looks carefully about him, and penetrates into the fairest portion of the valley, he will discover numerous small native dwellings, amidst thrifty cultivated enclosures, which deserve to be dignified by the appellation of gardens, and almost lead him to suppose, before the dusky occupants of the lowly tenements are seen, that the soil has been cultivated by the skillful hand of the white man. Certainly, everything betokens a far more advanced state of civilization, than is commonly to be found in the islands of Oceanica, even in those which have long been settled by adventurous white traders, and schooled by Christian missionaries; and the natives themselves, when at length he meets with them, for at first they are shy, and have cautiously and curiously scrutinized the strangers before they have shown themselves, are courteous in their demeanor, and generous in their hospitality. Although astonishment and wonder are depicted in their countenances, they betray no rude curiosity; they scarcely merit the appellation of savages. 
               It was some five years before the date of the opening of our story, that the whale-ship "Good Intent," sailing beyond the limits of the usual cruising ground, and drifted by currents, the existence of which were unknown to her navigators, had visited the Mattao group. 
               It was lucky that the seaman, aloft, had caught sight of the white water on the reefs when he did, or the "Good Intent" would, in all probability, have never have been heard of again; and it was still a marvel how she had been silently carried by the current amidst the islands and shoals which surrounded the inner cluster, without meeting with any disaster; without even getting sight of land. 
               "Land ho!" at length sung out the seaman, from the "cro'nest." 
               "Whereaway"! replied Captain Peters, from the quarter-deck, where he stood lazily lounging over the weather railing, and discussing in lugubrious tones with Silas Thorne, the mate, upon the ill-success of the voyage; for be it known, that at this period, the "Good Intent" had been twenty-two months from New Bedford, and had not, as yet, her ground tier of barrels laid in the hold. 
               "About half a point on the weather bow," rejoined the sailor, land lies low, but rises in hummucks to windward." 
               "I wonder what the deuce land it can be, Silas Thorne?" said the skipper, "I didn't reckon on seein' any land hereabouts." 
               "I guess not," replied the mate, "though, for the matter o' that," he added slyly, "I guess, Cap'n, it's somewhat doubtful whereabouts we be. 
               "Just so, just so, Silas," said the skipper slowly. "We ain't been partic'lar o' late of our dead reck'nin'; fact is, it ain't no use out here. Just git your ship full of ile, and then trust to Providence to the critter's finding her way home agin. That ere's been my motto, since I've been in the whale trade. I never could see the use o' chronometers nor lunars. They're jist new fangled idees, which only sarve to distract a seaman from his dooties. No-dead reck'nin's the safest thing to trust to in the long run, b'lieve an oldseaman, whose been at sea, man and boy, a matter of fifty years, and never yet met with an accident worth speaking about." 
               From this conversation, it will be gathered that Captain Peters was a rough and ready tar of the old school, who having once got his ship into the whaling ground, let her drift whither the wind and current directed her, taking the rising sun for his beacon-light, when his ship was "full," and steering eastward till he made the land, when ready to turn his vessel's prow towards home again. 
               The skipper was about to propound further questions to the seaman aloft, relative to the land in view, when he was again startled by the cry- 
               "White water ahead! We're steering right for a ledge of reefs,"-and scarcely had the alarming cry issued from the man's lips, when it was taken up by the watch on the forecastle, and- 
               "White water ahead! breakers to leeward!" was shouted by half a dozen voices at once. 
               The skipper gave orders hastily to tack ship, and, in the course of a few minutes, the vessel's head was pointed in an opposite direction, and the danger which had lately threatened her was left in the wake. 
               Then the captain, beckoning the mate to follow him, descended to his cabin, and ordered the boy to bring out his long-neglected bag of charts, and soon a large chart of the North Pacific Ocean lay stretched open before them on the cabin table. 
               "Now what land can that be?" observed the skipper, slowly drawing his finger over the chart. "We ought to be, as I calculate, somewheres hereabouts," laying his brawny hand on the chart, and covering with the broad palm, a space representing several degrees East and West, North and South, which was unjotted by any of the numerous clusters of islands laid down in other portions of the chart. "We ought to be some wheres hereabouts," he repeated, shaking his head, and scratching it gently with his dexter forefinger just behind the ear; "and yet, you see no land is laid down. There's sad mismanagement with these charts; they're made up by a parcel of landsmen, who know nothing about the matter; and then, you see, they say that land is continually rising from the sea, and sinking below it in these parts; so, after all, charts o' these seas is not to be trusted, even if they were the best in the world." 
               The mate acknowledged the justice of his commander's remarks; but suggested, that since the land was not laid down on the chart, they should go and see what it was. He urged that there seemed no chance of seeing any whales, and as they hadn't been in harbor for a long time, they would be all the better for a supply of fresh vegetables and fruits, if, perchance, the island afforded any; and perhaps a brief spell in harbor might change the ill luck of the voyage; and the captain, after giving the matter a few moments' thought, consented. 
               They reascended to the deck, and the order, "'bout ship," was again given, when the vessel, veering round, the course was directed, not dead on to the reef as before, but so as to lay along it, gradually edging towards it as they proceeded. 
               The afternoon was waning, when the land had been espied by the man in the "cro'-nest;" and by the time the brief twilight of a tropical evening came on, the vessel had approached sufficiently near for the crew to perceive that the land consisted of a group of undulating and well wooded islands, surrounded with coral-reefs, opening into several wide, channels, through which it would be easy to navigate the vessel; but, as night was coming on, the skipper thought it would be advisable to "lay to" till daylight in the morning, at a safe distance from the reefs. 
               The necessary orders were given, and her top-gallant sails furled, and a couple of reefs taken in "her topsails," and her mainsail hauled up and jib stowed, the "Good Intent" was "hove to," for the night, and the watch went below, anticipating with the glee of school boys, to whom a whole day has been promised, a pleasant run on shore on the following day, and probably a good "tuck out" of fresh vegetables and fruit, to relieve for a few days the monotonous diet of weevily biscuit and rancid pork, which formed their staple food. 
               The morning came. During the night the vessel had been edged off the land, and the group of islands, with the coral reefs-their natural defences-could only be discerned far away on the larboard beam. 
               Soon, however, the sail was set, and the yards braced round, and the vessel, relieved from the fetters in which she had 
                     beeu
                     been
                   placed, bounded merrily away directly for the land. 
               In less than half an hour, just tipping the edge of the horizon, a little speck became visible, dancing into view every time the vessel rose on the gently swelling waves, and becoming lost to sight as she sank in the hollow of the seas; and soon another and another speck was seen, and as the sun rose higher and its beams glistened upon the surface of the water, the practised eyes of the seamen soon discovered that these specks were island canoes, the crews of which were perhaps engaged in fishing; or, perhaps the curiosity of the natives was aroused by the sight of the gigantic stranger approaching their shores, and they had come forth to see what the leviathan really was. 
               The islands, however, it was evident, were inhabited; and the seamen rejoiced thereat, for so much greater the probability of their obtaining fresh provisions, perhaps, even, a supply of pork, for hogs abound in many of these islands. At all events, where human beings existed, there must be something cultivated for them to subsist upon, and the sailors were relieved from the doubts that beset them, whether, as is sometimes the case, they should be tantalized by finding the islands to be mere sand banks, covered with a rank and stunted herbage, and incapable of furnishing them with even a fresh supply of water. 
               As the "Good Intent" bore down towards the islands, the number of canoes that gradually appeared in sight increased rapidly, and the surface of the smooth water inside of the reef was almost covered with them. They had been spread widely apart, but now they approached each other, the crews consisting ing of four or six men in each, paddling along with great velocity, and the water dripping from the paddles flashing in the light of the morning sunbeams like liquid gold. And now they rested on their paddles, and seemingly held long converse together, until at length one separated from the rest, and the crew threading their way through one of the winding channels between the reefs, boldly approached the vessel, now within half a mile of the nearest island, as though more closely to scan, or perhaps to board the stranger. 
               The captain ordered the main yard to be backed as the canoe neared the ship; but when within the distance of a hundred yards, the islanders suddenly stopped, as if repenting of their temerity, and doubtful of the purpose of the strange visitant to the solitude of their waters. 
               A white flag was run up to the gaff-end of the "Good Intent," by the skipper's orders, to represent a flag of true, and to endeavor to cause the islanders to understand that no mischief was intended them. Still, for some minutes, they remained stationary, gesticulating rapidly, and their voices ringing in the clear atmosphere, so as to be distinctly heard on board the vessel. 
               Captain Peters shouted to them to approach, waving his handkerchief in token of amity, and pointing to the white bunting streaming in the breeze, aloft. They appeared to be reassured, and again the paddles were in motion. In the course of few minutes more they were within speaking distance, when they again halted. 
               The captain, who was tolerably acquainted with the Hawaian language, addressed them in that tongue, inviting them to come on board; but they made no response, although it was evident that they spoke a dialect of the same language, from their constant use of the words, Auwe, Auwe! expressive of surprise, or of any unaccustomed emotion. 
               At length, however, they were induced to come on board, and the mate was about to pass the canoe astern, when, observing ing his intentions, in a moment they flung themselves into the water in a state of alarm, and swam from the ship, seizing the light canoe and towing it after them. 
               The experiment was tried of bringing a Marquesas islander, who formed one of the crew, to the quarter-deck, and causing him to address them. They did not, it appeared, well understand him; though, perhaps, something in his accent and his appearance betokening that he was one of a similar race, again quieted their fears. They scrambled back into the canoe, and the captain informing them, as well as he could, of his purpose in visiting their islands, succeeded, at last, in calming all apprehension, and again they ventured on board, the canoe this time being allowed to remain alongside,-the islanders, however, taking the precaution to leave one of the six men composing its crew on board. 
               When they had in some degree recovered from the first surprise they felt on treading the deck of the vessel, Captain Peters and others of the crew of the "Good Intent" endeavored to enter into conversation with them, in the most prevalent of the Kanaka dialects; but, though they were enabled to make themselves partially understood, and, though many of the words, and even entire phrases, of the islanders were nearly the same as those of the Sandwich Islands, still, generally, the language was different, and the captain was somewhat surprised to hear, or fancy he heard, an occasional word which sounded very much like English. 
               They were an athletic race of men, tall and well-formed. One of the party, it was evident, was a chief; as well from the authority he exercised over the rest, as from the superior quantity and quality of the tattoo which adorned his person; but all were perfectly naked, with the exception of a sort of mantle worn over the shoulders and fastened round the throat, woven from the leaves of the lauhala, and a garment of the same material bound round the waist and extending nearly to the knee. 
               They were a darker race than that of the Sandwich Islands; although their features had less of the Malay cast, and their hair, though of a jetty blackness, was soft and wavy. Once on board and their fears quieted, they betrayed great curiosity, examining every thing with a curious eye, and frequently conversing together when anything particular attracted their attention, as though they had seen or rather heard of it before; although, when questioned as to whether their island had ever been visited before by the ships of white men, they signified that such had not been the case. 
               On the captain signifying his intention of bringing the ship to an anchor and going on shore, they testified great delight, and readily pointed out the widest and best channel for the "big canoe" to take, in order to approach their rock-girt isles. 
               Within half an hour the vessel had dropped anchor in a deep bay, on the leeward side of the island, which was capable of affording safe anchorage to a whole navy. The host of canoes which had been observed inside of the coral reefs in the morning, now surrounded the vessel; the crews all clamoring loudly and eagerly clambering on board, and curiously examining everything on deck. 
               The beach, distant about half a mile from the anchorage ground, was sandy; but the sand extended but a short distance, the ground rising suddenly within a hundred yards from the sea, and all further view being shut out by the dense foliage of the trees, which grew in a perfect forest to the line which marked the beach, and extended round the bay, shutting the vessel in, as it were, an amphitheatre of verdure. 
               The ship's boat was lowered, and accompanied by the mate and eight of the crew, all armed in case of a surprise, but carefully concealing their arms from the natives, the captain proceeded to the shore, where a group of islanders, male and female, had already assembled to welcome the arrival of the strangers. Each bore in their hands a palm branch, which they waved above their heads in token of amity, and they appeared to vie with each other, as to who should show the most officious hospitality. Well accustomed to the habits of the South Sea Islanders, Captain Peters saw at once that there was no fear of treachery, and willingly allowed himself to be mounted on the shoulders of two men, who bore him to the village, preceded by a number of youths and maidens chanting a rude monotonous chorus-in some of the tones of which, strangely enough, the seamen recognized a faint resemblance to old sea ditties, and still certain words which appeared to sound like English, seemed to mingle with the chant. 
               On their way, the cortege passed by several of the habitations described in the commencement of this chapter, and they could not help being struck with the extreme neatness and finish that characterized them, so different from anything they had met with before in those of the Pacific isles which have not been settled by Europeans and Americans. 
               A cluster, consisting of perhaps a hundred of these dwellings, constituted the chief, or rather as far as they could learn, the only village on the island, although similar habitations were scattered profusely all over it. 
               Captain Peters was carried to the abode of the king which only differed from the rest in its superior size. Its outer and interior arrangements were the same-the house built of mud and thatched with dried reeds, being surrounded by a small but well cultivated inclosure, in which various flowers, which in most of the islands grow wild, were tastefully arranged. The interior was divided into two apartments of equal size, one being the sleeping chamber, into which they did not enter-while the other was used as a sitting room, dining room, and kitchen in one, although the culinary arrangements were carried on outside. Furniture, there was little or none in most of the houses they saw; but in that of the king, there was a table and several chairs, rudely formed certainly, but still bearing a resemblance to those in use in civilized countries. 
               It may well be imagined, that the sight of these, as it appeared, rude attempts towards the comforts and appliances of civilization, added to the astonishment that the captain already experienced, but he had little time to look about, ere the sound of several conch shells proclaimed the arrival of the king, who had been absent from the village, but to whom intimation had been sent of the arrival of the strangers. His majesty differed in no repect, so far as his personal decoration went, from the chief who had conducted the visitors to the village, and who had been the first to board the vessel outside the reefs; but that he was held in great reverence by his subjects, was evident in the manner in which they humbled themselves when he appeared; while none but the chief ventured to accompany the captain into the regal mansion. When they had entered, the door was closed, and the rabble without, who had accompanied the cortege from the beach, respectfully retired, and the captain was pressed to partake of the refreshment which was hastily served up, consisting of pork cooked after the usual mode in Polynesia; that is, baked on heated stones, and set off with a calabash of Poi, a paste made from the root of the Taro.
                
               The conversation was sufficiently intelligible to all parties to enable Captain Peters to bargain for a supply of hogs, and as many vegetables and fruits as he chose to take on board, for which he engaged to pay by supplying the king and the principal chiefs with knives and axes-articles which, though there were none to be seen, and which it was evident, from the rude carving of the few articles of furniture, were not in use in the island, the islanders seemed to have a mysterious acquaintance with, the moment they saw them on board the ship. 
               Again Captain Peters inquired if this was the first visit of the white men, pointing to his ship in the bay, which could be seen from the openings used as windows, the king's house being situated on a slight eminence, and he was told that they had never seen so large a canoe before-" they had seen none but such as they used themselves"-and having gained his ends in procuring the promise of a supply of fresh provisions, the captain, accompanied by his mate and boat's crew, returned on board. 
                
               The mate and seamen, who had not been admitted to the royal audience, were enthusiastic in their praises of the hospitality of the islanders, and the beauty and intelligence of the dusky females, who, with the all-pervading characteristic of the daughters of Eve, no matter where the place of their birth or what their condition in society, had been especially curious, and remarkably loquacious with their strange visitors; yet all acknowledged that these dusky fair ones (the reader will excuse the paradox) had borne themselves with a modesty and propriety of demeanor, seldom found amongst the females of the Polynesian Islands. 
               Captain Peters was not a man to trouble himself greatly, with regard to the peculiarities in the manners and customs of the various races he had mingled amongst during his rambling career, yet he was a man of shrewd common sense and quick observation, and he was so surprised at the strange mixture of semi-civilization he met with amongst a people whom it appeared had never been visited by Europeans, that he endeavored to institute such inquiries as might account for this progress; but he was completely at fault. All he could learn was, that they had a priest, whom he might not see, who was of higher rank than their king, and who lived in seclusion in one of the lesser islands, which was sacred to him and tabooed to every one else, except at stated intervals; and from this high priest they had heard of things they had never seen, and he had told them of the white men and their big canoes. 
               "Is he a white man, or one of your race?" asked the captain of the chief, who had, after much persuasion, given him this information. 
               "He is not a white man, nor is he of the race of Mattao," was the reply. 
               "Whence, then, does he come?" 
               "I know not-I cannot tell," said the chief, mysteriously, and gazing around him, with a look of alarm, as though he had even now said too much; and he refused, though questioned closely, and even bribed, to speak on the subject again. 
               The "Good Intent" remained for three weeks in the harbor of Mattao-and then put to sea, well supplied with fresh provisions, the captain having been hurried in his departure, in consequence of several "schools" of whales being seen in the neighborhood by the islanders, whilst engaged in fishing ouside the reef. 
               The mate's fancy had turned out correct, for shortly after leaving the islands, the vessel was fortunate enough to fall in with a large number of whales, and a cargo was rapidly obtained. The prow of the "Good Intent" was then turned to the eastward, and, in due time, she reached her port of destination, New Bedford. 
               Captain Peters often spoke of the islanders of Mattao, and swore, if he could find the place again, he would visit them on his next voyage, and the mate was as curious as his commander; in some respects, indeed, more so-for, though Captain Peters always laughed at him when he said so, and told him he must at the time have been dreaming of his sweetheart at home, Silas Thorne would have it, that, one day, when he had been amusing himself by fishing in the jolly boat, he had seen a native canoe glide past him, seated in the stern of which was a female of exceeding beauty, and fairer than any of the females he had before seen on the island. He said he had stealthily sculled the boat to the place where she landed, but she could not be seen, and the canoe, and the man who was paddling it, had also vanished, where or how he could not imagine. He was half inclined to think there was some witchcraft about it; but, if ever he had the chance to visit the islands again, he resolved to seek after this mysterious maiden. In fact, the fantasy, if such it was, appeared to have taken a strong hold of Silas Thorne's imagination. 
               However, Captain Peters and Silas Thorne had both made another voyage to the Pacific, and either could not find the islands where they had formerly landed, or had met with such success in the main object of the voyage, that they had not time to think of anything else. Again they returned home, and, at the date of the opening of our story, the "Good Intent" was lying at one of the piers on the East River, again fitting out for a whaling voyage. It was on board this vessel that Charles Allan had shipped on his arrival in New York. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               LOUISA MILDMAY COMMENCES HER STORY. 
               THE two young women had set themselves to work after tea, and had been joined by Bridget Connolly, who, having set her affairs right in the basement, mounted to the attic to spend the evening with Louisa and the stranger, being desirous of learning how Louisa had succeeded in her endeavor to procure employment for Laura, and of talking over the events of the day. 
               The simple tale was soon told-how Mr. Bailey had refused to pay for the work Louisa Mildmay had carried back to the store, and how she had procured work from another place, where she thought the people seemed more civil; and Mr. Bailey, had he heard them, would have assuredly quailed beneath the anathemas heaped upon his head by the fruit-woman, as she listened to the story of his heartlessness and villany. 
               "Sure, the day'll come when he'll be sorry for this same thratement of the misfortunate poor," said Bridget, "and God send, when it does come, that he'll not find one friend to help him in his trouble." 
               It was not a Christian wish this, of the Widow Connolly's, but the known meanness and avarice, and insolence of the object of her objurgation, afforded ample excuse for her indignation. 
               Both the young women sat for some time silently plying their needles, while the widow's attention was drawn intently towards the grate, in which, thanks to her liberality, a good fire was crackling and blazing, and giving both warmth and cheerfulness to the apartment. 
               There must have been something strange to be seen in that fire, or else the widow was peopling the glowing embers with the creatures of her fancy, for her eyes were earnestly, although abstractedly, fixed upon the flickering flames, while she sat with her arms folded, rocking herself to and fro in the chair, as was her custom when anything had occurred to annoy or distress her. 
               "Miss Mildmay," said Laura, suddenly breaking the silence, "you promised to tell, this evening, how it was that you, evidently unused in early life to poverty, became reduced to your present condition. Would the recital be too painful? If not, I should like to hear it." 
               "I fear," said Louisa, sadly smiling, "that it is a tale, unfortunately too common to possess much interest; but such as it is, if you wish, you shall have it." 
               "Och, shure, tell the young lady, Miss Mildmay," exclaimed Bridget, suddenly arousing herself from her reverie; "it'll show how many ups and downs there are in the world, and may be help to make us all more humble and contented under our own troubles, when we listen to the mishaps of others; I don't know why it should be, but shure it is so, that when one poor craythur gets into throuble, it's always a consolation to find others in the same difficulty-it's what they call the parvarsity of human natur', I s'pose; but, tell the story, alanna." 
               Laura again expressed a wish to hear it, and Louisa thus commenced: 
               "I was born in the city of New York, and am the only daughter of a merchant, whose wealth at the period of my birth and for many years after, was reputed to be great, and whose credit was, of course, great in proportion. My mother died while I was still a child, and my father did what, unfortunately, too many men involved in business are apt to do. He was very fond of me; but he left my education entirely to the management of strangers. He brought into the family a fashionable French governess, whose recommendations from one or two ladies with whom she had lived were unimpeachable; he hired the best masters the country could afford to instruct me in the accomplishments of music, drawing, and painting; He spared no expense to perfect me in a knowledge of French,-and having done this, he thought he had done enough. Not that he was regardless of my moral welfare, for a better-hearted and better principled man than my poor father, lived not; but his own time was so fully occupied, his business was so extensive, and its details of so complicated a nature, that he could not avoid committing the management in this, as well as in many other respects, to mercenaries. The consequence was, that I, never suspecting evil, grew up to be too confiding-too thoughtless, and perhaps too confident in my demeanor. The day after I had completed my sixteenth year, I made my first debut into society. People said, then, that I was handsome; it might have been so-that was seven years ago-and seven years, one-half of them years of poverty and sorrow, make strange alterations in one's personal appearance; but more probably the knowledge of my father's wealth, and the fact of my being mistress of so many showy accomplishments were the causes of my becoming almost instantly an object of attraction to the other sex. 
               "Into whatever saloon or drawing-room I entered, a murmur of applause failed not to greet my arrival, and my chair was surrounded by a host of fashionable youths. I was gratified, and so was my father, who felt proud to see his daughter so flattered. I may say, without vanity, that I played well, and my voice had been highly cultivated, and consequently I was often pressed to gratify the company by the display of my talent. I usually consented readily, for I believed that the admiration expressed was real. Attention and approbation, so marked and so continual, was too severe an ordeal for me to endure, and pass forth unscathed; my natural timidity soon gave way, and ere the expiration of a single season, I had become, I fully confess one of the most determined flirts and dauntless coquettes to be met with in society. 
               "Notwithstanding all this, and although the reputed wealth of my father had brought around me as suitors, multitudes of those contemptible persons whose talents wholly unfit them for any other means of bettering their fortunes, than by cheating some rich and silly female into a marriage-all my admirers were not of that class. Among others, who sought my hand, I was addressed by a Mr. D--, I will not mention his name, there is no need of doing so, but he was an old and intimate friend of my father's, a merchant, and a member of the State Senate. Mr. D-- was too wealthy, and too generally respected to be dismissed, as I had dismissed other lovers when their addresses grew troublesome, by a single absolute refusal 
               "I neither encouraged nor rejected his suit; but, under the guidance of Madame Fleuret, whom I had advanced from the position of governess to be my friend and confidante, I kept him as a sort of set off against other suitors, and as a last resort in case other fancies of my own should fail. 
               "I am sorry to say, Miss Denman, that I had become by this time so reckless, so vitiated in my sentiments, I may well call it, that I thought it by no means necessary to consult the feelings of the heart, or to inquire whether or not the temper and habits of the man whom I chose for a husband, at all accorded with my own. 
               "I had been too long the pupil of Madame Fleuret, to take such old-fashioned matters into consideration. 
               "'Marry for an establishment, my dear,' was her continual advice. 'Nobody, now-a-days, not born and bred a hundred miles from the city, so much as expects to love her husband. You must look to him for a house, carriage, and servants, and, having these, I will answer for it, lovers will not be wanting.' So the guardian of my youth advised, and so I foolishly resolved to act; but I was yet too young and too happy in a single state, to rush into matrimony with a man I cared nothing for. 
               "It is not indeed to be wondered at, that I did not love Mr. D--. True, he was wealthy, he moved in the first circles, his manners were those of a gentleman, and his person was not disagreeable; but then, he was full twenty years older than I; and there was a degree of gravity about him, that I could not altogether relish. Volatile and thoughtless as I was, I however respected Mr. D--, as did all persons with whom he came into contact; but I did not conceal from myself, that with this respect a degreee of fear was mixed up, not certainly desirable in the feelings of a wife towards her husband. 
               "Things had continued in this way for several months, and the season was drawing to a close, when I was astonished by receiving one morning a message from my father, who desired to see me without delay. 
               "I obeyed the summons, and descending found him pacing backwards and forwards in the breakfast parlor, in a state of evident agitation. 
               "As soon as I entered, he made an effort to appear cheerful, and placing a chair, requested me to be seated. He then drew his chair close to mine, and taking my hand, addressed me as follows: 
               "'Louisa, I have seen with extreme satisfaction the attentions which you have long received from my valued friend, Mr. D--, and I am happy to say that he has commissioned me to make you a positive offer of his hand and fortune. All that he desires in return is a direct answer, either in the affirmative or negative; because, as he observes, although his love for you is not less ardent than the love of younger men, still it is not consistent with his notions of decorum and propriety to continue in the state of unmeaning incertitude in which your behavior places him. Now, my love, though you must be quite aware that I desire nothing but your happiness, and though I do assure you that, let your decision be what it may, you shall never be subjected to remonstrance or reproach from me-there are certain circumstances, which I think it my duty to lay fairly before you, and which will, perhaps, induce you not to cast away so favorable an opportunity of settling yourself in life. Louisa,' he continued, in a solemn tone, 'I am all but a ruined man. Speculations in which I embarked under every prospect of success, have failed me; and though, for a little while longer, I may be able to keep up appearances, there is not a shadow of a hope that my house, furniture, indeed every thing belonging to me, will not, in a very short time, be brought to the hammer.' 
               "Starting from my seat at this intelligence, I stood perfectly aghast with dismay, and my father, mistaking the import of that look, instantly said: 
               " 'Nay, my child, do not imagine that your father could act so dishonorably as to keep this matter a secret from the intended husband of his child. Mr. D-- knows all. It was, indeed, at the very close of the conversation, in which I made him acquainted with the state of my affairs, that he generously offered to lay himself and his large fortune at your feet. So, go Louisa. I do not press you to determine in a moment how you are to act. Go and consult Madame Fleuret; and as soon as you have come to a determination, let me know its tendency.' 
               "I departed, without offering one syllable in reply, and flew as fast as the excited state of my nerves would allow, to the apartment of my confidant. I threw myself into her arms and burst into tears, without assigning any cause for my emotion. 
               "As may be supposed, a behavior so extraordinary and so unusual on my part, startled even the cold-blooded Frenchwoman into something like feeling; and, in a tone of real alarm, she besought me to be composed, and to open to her the cause of my grief. 
               "It was not, however, for some time, and after repeated efforts, that I could so far command myself as to lay before Eleuret the circumstances of the case; but, at length, the information was communicated, and the question naturally put- 
               "Dear Madame Fleuret, how am I to act?" 
               "'Act!' exclaimed she, 'how should you act my dear! Your father, you say, is ruined, and here is a rich, worthy man, anxious to have you without one dollar of fortune. Would you not be the silliest creature on earth to refuse him?' 
               "'But then,' I replied, 'I do not, and never can, love him. Nay, more, I dread his great correctness, and am chilled by his frigidity.' 
               "'Pooh, nonsense!' exclaimed Madame Fleuret, 'how often have I told you that love may do very well for the daughter of a country farmer, but is wholly unlooked-for in a married woman of fashion. Accept the excellent man's offer immediately; and when you remove to Mr. D--'s mansion, trust me that Mrs. D-- will be behind no lady in the land in anything necessary to constitute the lady of good breeding.' 
               "'But, dear Fleuret,' I replied, 'I have seen another man, whom I think I could love, and marry, too; and who swears that he adores me. Can I accept Mr. D-- under these circumstances?' 
               "'Is he rich-this man?' she asked. 
               "'No,' I replied; 'he is only a book-keeper in a mercantile house, with no fortune, and dependent upon his salary.' 
               "'Then,' rejoined Fleuret, 'think no more of him for the present. Marry Mr. D-- as soon as you can; and when that is done, we shall see what can be done with the handsome accountant.' 
               "Such were the lessons inculcated into my mind by the woman whom my father had selected out of a hundred to direct my education, and who came under his roof bearing the highest and most unqualified testimonials from more than one family of high standing. Against arguments so cogent as these, what could I oppose! I yielded to them, and made my father happy, by employing him in so agreeable an errand as to be the bearer to his friend D-- of permission to advance his suit in his own proper person. 
               "That suit was granted; and the ordinary preliminaries having been gone through-a stipulation being made and acceded to that I should not be compelled to part with Madame Fleuret, and a handsome jointure being settled on myself, in case my future husband should die before me, the day of our wedding was fixed-the day that was to make me the wealthiest woman about town. In three weeks from this period, I consented to be removed from my father's roof to that of Mr. D--" 
               Louisa stopped short in her narrative; for some minutes her emotion had been gradually gaining the mastery over her, and she burst into tears, declaring, in a broken voice, her inability to proceed. 
               "Excuse me, Miss Denman," she at length sobbed forth. "I can tell no more to-night. I did not become the bride of Mr. D--; but-the story is too dreadful! It is late; let us retire. To-morrow, you shall hear the rest." 
               Laura grasped the hand of the apparently heart-broken young woman; but she made no response, while Bridget Connolly, to whom the sad tale appeared to be familiar, rocked herself to and fro, in the manner peculiar to her class when their feelings are deeply touched, and she moaned aloud- 
               "Ah! poor colleen! Poor colleen!" 
               Laura was deeply moved. She thought her own troubles great; but they seemed light in comparison with those which her companion had borne. Yet, "What were those troubles?" she thought. Her curiosity was strangely piqued; and she would gladly have listened to the remainder of Louisa's story that night. She would have begged her to continue her recital; but her better feelings prevailed. She felt it would be cruel to do so, and she quietly laid her work aside and prepared for rest. After sitting some moments longer, conning over the dying embers, Bridget arose, and gently kissing Louisa, quitted the room without uttering a word, and the two young women were left together. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               LOUISA CONCLUDES HER STORY. 
               ON the following morning, Louisa Mildmay concluded the sad story of her early life. As on the previous evening, Bridget Connolly visited the sewing-girl's room, where the two young women were employed at their work; and, after the tea-things were removed, Louisa commenced: 
               "I mentioned, last night, that I had consented to wed Mr. D--. All went well, until the very morning appointed for the wedding. I was to be married at Trinity Church, and the bridegroom was to meet me at my father's residence at ten o'clock in the forenoon, and from thence he was to accompany us to the church. 
               "I was in very bad spirits, notwithstanding the gaiety of the bridal party, and the splendid preparations which had been made for the ceremony. Ten o'clock came, and my heart palpitated violently in my bosom, as I anticipated every moment the arrival of the man whom, not loving, I had promised to wed. There had been, for some days previous, a presentiment in my breast, as if some great evil were about to befall me; but I strove to bear up against it. Mr. C--, the young accountant, to whom I had given my heart, had heard of my approaching marriage; indeed, it could not be kept a secret from him, since his visits to our house, which had previously been frequent, were forbidden by my father. Charles C-- wrote two letters to me, begging me still to alter my mind, and not to cast myself away and ruin my happiness forever, by uniting myself with a man old enough to be my father, and for whom, as I had confessed honestly to him, I had not a particle of affection. 
               "The first of these letters was intercepted and opened by my father, and sent back to the writer; the second I received, and replied to myself. I told Charles that I loved him and him only; that it was only for my father's sake I consented to a marriage, the consummation of which I looked forward to with dismay and horror. I scarcely now know all I wrote, for the letter was penned while I was in a state of the acutest mental suffering. I fear I said more than I ought, and unbosomed myself to my discarded lover with a freedom and confidence that nothing could justify; but little I thought he would have the cruelty to betray my confidence." 
               Louisa, at this point of her narrative, gave way to her emotion, and wept bitterly; but, after some time, she resumed her story. 
               "Eleven o'clock struck-one hour past the appointed time-and Mr. D-- had not arrived. Every one present betrayed symptoms of uneasiness, though they strove to conceal them. They had reason: bridegrooms are not wont to be behindhand with their appointments. 
               "My father, who, for some time, had been almost incapable of controlling his feelings, at length said that he would go to the house of Mr. D--, and ascertain the cause of his delay. He was absent an hour. I need not say how anxiously I awaited his return. Though I did not love the man I had promised to marry, I well knew that my pride would receive a blow, from the effects of which I could never recover, if, at this moment, after all the preparations had been made, and the bridal party invited to witness the ceremony, anything should occur to prevent its taking place. I should become a laughing-stock amongst my fashionable acquaintance-an object of scorn, pity, and contempt. I, who had held my head the haughtiest amongst the haughty. 
                
               "At length, my ear, quickened by the dreadful anxiety I felt, caught the sound of my father's footsteps on the pavement. Another moment, and he rang the door-bell. I would have forestalled the servants, and have flown to answer the bell; but I dared not do so. It would have occasioned surprise; and already I heard whisperings, and noticed glances, which almost caused me to sink with shame and wounded pride. 
               "I threw my veil over my face, to hide the burning flush which suffused my cheeks, and, endeavoring to assume an outward appearance of composure, I awaited my father's, and, as I hoped-aye, hoped, at that moment-Mr. D--'s entrance. 
               "A servant entered the room, and whispered to me, that my father wished to see me in the library, instantly. 
               "Trembling with the apprehension of some impending evil, I obeyed the summons, making some trifling excuse, I know not what, to those nearest me, for my temporary absence. 
               "When I entered the library, I found my father pacing up and down the room in a state of violent excitement. In his hand he held an open letter, and on the table lay another, which, even at that moment, I recognized to be in my own hand-writing. 
               "My father did not speak to me; he appeared not to have observed my entrance until I addressed him, when he stopped, turned round abruptly, and looked me sternly yet pityingly in the face. 
               "'Louisa,' he said, 'you have ruined me, and made yourself a beggar.' 
               "I was frightened at these dreadful words. 'What do you mean, papa?' I asked. 'What have I done? Where is Mr. D--; have you seen him?' 
               "'No,' replied my father; 'read this letter,' thrusting the letter he held into my hand-'and that,' pointing to the one on the table-'What could have induced you to act so foolishly, madly, wickedly, as you have done?' 
               "I did not reply; but assuming an appearance of calmness I did not feel, and controlling the swelling emotion which almost stifled me, I read the letter. 
               "It was from Mr. D--, and had been left at his house for my father, in the charge of the servants, and it enclosed the letter I had written to Charles C--, in which I had confessed that I loved him, and hated the man who was to be my husband, and in which I had been foolish enough to say that the marriage was only consented to for the sake of my father, and to hint that, as Mr. D-- was even then an aged man, he might soon die-and his fortune once mine, and I free, nothing would then lie in the way of my marriage with the man I did love. 
               "As I have observed, I did not recollect that I had written this, until I again saw the letter before me. Mr. D--'s letter to my father simply stated, that this rhapsody of mine had been sent to him under cover by the person to whom it was originally addressed, who was unknown to him; but he knew my hand-writing, and that sufficiently stamped its authenticity. He said that he had left the city, and should not return for months; that after receiving such a communication, satisfying him that he was to be made the mere tool of my father, and entrapped into a marriage, solely for the sake of convenience, he considered himself fully justified in declining the honor of my hand. The letter was temperate, but firm in tone. I felt, as I read it, that nothing could alter the determination of the writer. 
               "I had sufficient strength to walk to the table and lay the letter down; then I fainted, and remained insensible for many hours. When I recovered my senses, I found myself on a couch, in my own apartment, and Madame Fleuret in attendance upon me. 
               "In reply to my questions, she told me that the wedding-party had been dismissed abruptly by my father, who had been in a state of the most fearful excitement, and had acted like a madman. He was now, she said, in his own room, and refuse to admit any one into his presence. This infamous woman now began to show her utter callousness; she observed, that, as we were now ruined, she did not deem it advisable to remain longer with me, and had resolved to quit the house next day. 'As it was,' she had the heartlessness to say, 'she supposed the last quarterly salary my father had allowed her, since she had become my companion and confidant, would not be paid, for the occurrences of the morning had already been noised throughout the city, and reports were abroad to the effect that my father was irretrievably ruined, and that several notes of large amount, that he was to have met on the day following my marriage, had that taken place, would not now be paid.' 
               "I will not harrow your feelings with a detailed recital of the agony I suffered that night. I wished to have gone to my poor father's room, and to have thrown myself at his feet and begged his forgiveness; to have assured him of my lasting affection, to have implored the continuance of his love for me, and to have comforted him with the assurance, that, so long as this mutual affection and support endured, we could not be utterly unhappy; but I was too weak to quit my room, and I was told that, if I sought him, he would not see me. 
               "In the morning, I was in a violent fever, and a long and dangerous illness ensued. For several days my life was despaired of. I was all this time in a state of delirium; and when I at length became convalescent, I found myself in a humble lodging, attended only by good, kind, Bridget Connolly, who had been occasionally employed in our house to assist the servants. Madame Fleuret had left me at the commencement of my illness; all the servants had gone when the sheriff's sale of our effects had taken place. Few, even of my most intimate friends, had made any inquiries after me; none had called to see me in my sickness and distress; Bridget Connolly, whom I had scarcely known, and never had spoken to, alone was faithful. 
                
               "I wished to see my father, but was told that he was absent on business, and with this answer I was for a time obliged to be content; but as I grew stronger, and Bridget was occasionally visited by her humble friends, I could not help observing the looks of pity that were cast upon me, and the mystery that seemed to involve my father's continued absence. 'Why does he not write to me?' I asked; 'or why, if it be necessary that he should remain absent, cannot I be told where he is, that I may write or go to him?' 
               "I received no satisfactory reply, until, after some time, when my importunities could no longer be put off, Bridget told me all-all the dreadful tale!" 
               Again Louisa gave way to her feelings, and sobbed bitterly. At length, she recovered herself, and continued, although her voice was repeatedly choked with emotion: 
               "I learnt that my father-whose affairs, as he had told me before I had promised to accept the addresses of Mr. D--, were in a state of the utmost confusion-had been promised by the merchant, that, as soon as he became my husband, sufficient funds should be placed at his disposal to enable him fully to meet his liabilities, and again set him straight with the world. 
               "When Mr. D-- had written the letter already spoken of, and had refused my hand and left the city, all these arrangements had fallen through. Very soon the matter had been noised abroad, my father's creditors had pressed hardly upon him, and, in a moment of insanity, he had committed suicide, on the third day of my illness! Long before I had recovered my health, my poor father had been laid in his grave. 
               "Kindly, delicately, as Bridget had given me this dreadful intelligence, and notwithstanding I had suspected that something was wrong, the blow fell too heavily upon my exhausted frame and spirits; a relapse took place, and again I was laid on a bed of sickness. However, my youth was in my favor; and, although reduced a second time almost to death's door, I at length recovered; and then I heard the full and melancholy details of my father's bankruptcy. I learned that it had occurred, in a great measure, through the villany of a man named Benson, who had deceived and robbed him." 
               Laura startled at the name, "Benson!" She exclaimed, involuntarily- 
               "Benson?" 
               "Yes, Benson; do you know him?" asked Louisa. 
               "I know one of that name, but surely it cannot be he," replied Laura; and Louisa proceeded with her story: 
               "I learned what hurt me deeply, that Charles C-- was unworthy of my love; that, in a fit of rage and jealousy, he, on the receipt of my letter, had sent it to Mr. D--, solely with the object of breaking off the match, and bringing my father and I to beggary. Some time after my recovery, he sent me a letter, asking for an interview, and making proposals to me I could not listen to. I did not reply to it, and he sent me another letter-equally fruitlessly. Since then, I have heard nothing from him, nor have I seen him; though he is still in the city, and employed by the same house. 
               "When my strength had quite returned, I resolved, since I could not live on the charity of Bridget Connolly, to seek to obtain employment by teaching to others some of the numerous accomplishments I was mistress of; but I sought in vain. My former friends would not notice me; and the field in which I sought to find a place was fully occupied. At length, by slow degrees-for I did a little better at first, while some remnant of pity and sympathy existed amongst those who had known me in happier days-I was reduced to earn a scanty living, by my present employment; and now; Miss Denman, I have told you all, and shown you, I trust, how fallacious are the hopes you build of rendering your accomplishments pecuniarily available. You have yet to learn the trials and temptations to which you will be subjected, if you persist in remaining in New York, in your present position. If there be any method by which you can bring about a reconciliation with your guardian, take my advice, and avail yourself of it, before, perhaps, the door is forever closed." 
               Laura did not reply. She was pondering deeply over the sad story she had been listening to, though her fingers, as well as those of Louisa, were still busily plying the needle. The widow Connolly was sitting abstractedly before the dying embers of the fire, and the last candle was burning low and guttering in the socket-for Louisa's tale had taken long in telling-and the clock had struck the hour of eleven. In less than five minutes longer, the expiring flame of the candle flickered, blazed up, flickered again, and sunk, and became extinguished in the melted tallow that filled the socket of the candlestick. The room was in darkness, save the feeble light afforded by the ashes in the grate. To work longer that night was impossible; and indeed, although their work was pressing, both young women needed rest. Wishing them good night, in a subdued tone, and kissing Louisa, the widow arose and groped her way down the stairs, and, in a few minutes, the tenants of the humble garret were in bed, and forgetting their sorrows in peaceful slumbers. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               "ALL IN THE DOWNS."-A STORM ON THE COAST OF KENT. 
               THE coast of Kent, always noted for the fury of the storms which assail its chalky cliffs during the winter season, had, at the period to which our story now refers, been visited by a succession of violent tempests, which had caused a greater amount of damage to the shipping in the narrow portion of the English channel, and to the villages on the sea shore, than had been known to have occurred within the memory of that mysterious personage, "the oldest inhabitant"-and amongst the hardy men and women who lived on that coast, and who gained their livelihood by fishing and selling the finny spoil, there were many of patriarchal age. At length there was a lull in the violence of these storms, and the honest portion of the in habitants began to hope that the stormy elements had wrought themselves out with their own fury, and that a change to finer weather was at hand; but the lull was deceitful: as contesting legions wearied with strife, naturally seek a respite from battle, and rest in peace, only to gather strength to renew the contest, so this brief quiet of the elements was only the precursor of a severer storm than any that had yet swept the coast. 
               The wind raged to a degree of fury, such as those who had resided all their lives on the seashore had seldom witnessed. The clouds were not sailing, but rushing through the sky in blackish gray fleeces. A huge black mass came up from time to time upon the blast, driving away from East to West, and sending forth a shower of hailstones, which beat into the faces of the unlucky wanderers abroad, with a fierceness which, coupled with the violence of the wind, compelled them to stoop and cling for support to the low shrubbery which grew on the sides, and at the base of the cliffs. On the plains on the hill tops, the sheep and cattle were cowering together with their backs turned towards the storm, seeking to find warmth and partial shelter by these means; and the shepherds, fearless of the straying of their charge, in the midst of such a storm, had run home to their houses amongst the glens and hollows near. 
               It was a day in which no one, it would be believed, who could find a roof to cover him, would have chosen to be abroad, so boisterous was the gale, and so keen and cutting were the gusts of hail and sleet, which, from time to time, rode upon the blasts; and as night closed in, and the tempest seemed even to increase in fury, the cottagers huddled together round the huge fires, and discoursed, with the anxiety only those can feel whose habitations are located within the sound of the ocean waves in their wrath, of the poor mariners on the sea, who were exposed to its violence, with no covert to fly to. 
               A brisk look-out had been kept during the day, by the coastguard men, for there was a large fleet of Indiamen reported to be at anchor in the Downs, and fears had been freely expressed that some of them would part their cables and drift ashore; but as the darkness grew on, nothing could be seen but the angry ocean boiling and foaming far and near, one huge caldron of troubled waters, which tossed and tumbled as if the fires of Etna or Vesuvius were burning beneath them. The opposite coast of France, which can usually be distinctly seen, even to the glancing of a sunbeam on the windows of the houses in Calais, was entirely hidden by the smoky vapor that rose from the troubled waters, and completely obscured the atmosphere. There might indeed be ships in distress, or, perhaps, gallantly riding out the storm, for the eye could not penetrate, even from the summit of the cliffs, beyond a few miles from the shore; but within that limit, no ship, no boat was visible ible. Even the screaming sea-gull, whose delight it is to revel in the storm, had sought its nest amidst the hollows of the chalk cliffs, which overhung the beach; and from the Martello tower, on the summit of that lofty headland, whence 
                      
                        "The murmuring surge 
                        That on the unnumbered pebbles idly chafes, 
                        Cannot be heard so high," 
                     
                   the scene was dreary and desolate in the extreme. 
               The coast guard men swept the horizon with their night-glasses, and then, apparently satisfied that even the boldest smuggler would not dare to attempt to run a cargo amidst such a war of the elements, they sought the shelter of the tower, dispensing with the usual night-watch, and set-to to their carousal, within its snug chambers, enlivening the conversation with what, to any ears but theirs which had listened to the wild and awful music of the tempest for a life-time, would have been most dreary tales of shipwreck, and battle, and perils on the wave. 
               But there were mariners abroad that night-mariners, too, who had voluntarily dared to brave the wrath of the ocean; who had, indeed, rejoiced at the violence of the tempest; and who now, drenched as they were in their cock-boat of a vessel, tossed to and fro-the very sport and foot-ball, as it were, of the angry billows-laughed with an almost impious bravado, at the prospect of successfully "running" a cargo of French brandy and laces on shore, when, as they truly suspected, there was no one watching them. Yet, perilous as their situation seemed to be, there was really no absolute danger in the eyes of the hardy crew of the little schooner. Graceful and buoyant, she rode upon the angry waves like a thing of life, rejoicing in the conscious pride of her security and triumph; and, although the spray dashed over her continuously, she cleft the massive billows as she soared to their summit, scarcely feeling the shock to which a larger and more substantial vessel would have been subjected. The crew was not numerous. It consisted of the captain (a man already passed the middle age, but whose hair and beard were grizzled, and whose face was bronzed and wrinkled, more by the effects of exposure, than by the wear and tear of years); a lad, his son (who, although he had yet hardly numbered fourteen years, seemed familiar with the ocean, and careless of danger), and six other men, of various ages, but mostly still young. And well they knew every nook and corner of the coast they were approaching, as they did those of the coast of France which they had sailed from, while the storm was at its height. The captain needed, even on the darkest and most tempestuous night, to catch but one glimpse of the land, to know where to run so light and small a bark as his into a secure haven. 
               "Dost see the land, yet, lads?" inquired the captain from the helm, at which he was standing, to the men who were assembled in the forepart of the little vessel, guarding the salt spray from their eyes with their hands; "its so plaguey dark, and there's such a confounded haze, that my old eyes can't see half a mile ahead; and yet, with this tearing gale on our quarter, we must have run ten knots an hour since eight o'clock, and now it must be ten. We must be nearing the coast." 
               "I think I see the glimpse of the light through the haze, from the Martello tower, on Shakspere's cliff," replied one of the men addressed; "but, Cap'n Benson, s'pose you send Harry for'ard, and let him stoop down on a level with the gunwale, and peer through the mist; his eyes are the 'cutest aboard the craft; cuss me, if I can be certain whether I see the light or not; the mist grows thicker every moment." 
               The youth thus appealed to, at the request of his father, made the best of his way to the forecastle, clinging, as he staggered along, to the low bulwarks of the "Lively Sally," for that was the name of the schooner, and, after peering earnestly through the gloom, and the thick, damp mist, for a few minutes, exclaimed: 
                
               "I see the light, father; it's from the Martello tower on Shakspeare's cliff, as Tom said," and after another few minutes of silence, he added, "I see the outline of the cliffs, now. We're getting close in shore, father. We can't be more than a mile off." 
               "Lower the fore-top-sail, and brail up the spanker, and in with the gib, then, boys," said the captain, "we'll run in under the fore-sail; stand by and get the anchor ready for running, and haul up ten fathoms more of chain. We may want it, tho' I fancy we shan't; I shall slant the craft along shore, and run in the little cove to the westward of Folkestone; and, I guess, she'll ride easy enough there. The water'll be tolerably smooth, for all this breeze-for it's well sheltered from the easterly gales." 
               The yards were accordingly trimmed, and the helm slightly changed, as the course was altered a point or two, and in less than a quarter of an hour, the vessel had entered into the cove unseen and unsuspected, either by coast-guardsmen or revenue officers, notwithstanding, a few minutes before they had come to an anchor, a "blue light" had been burnt on board the schooner, and responded to, as if by magic, by another blue light, which seemed to proceed from midway up the cliff. 
               "All right, boys; they're on the look out," said the captain. "They knew our pluck, and that this was just the night we should choose for our adventure, when neither land nor sea sharks are likely to be about. They say Old Nick's abroad, riding on the blast with his imps, when the wind howls as it does to-night. But good luck to him, for such a breeze sometimes. It's a blessing to honest free-traders like we." 
               The men responded to their captain with a host of rude and coarse witticisms, and strongly seasoned, if not with "Attic salt," with strong salt-water flavor, and the crew, looking like dripping sea-lions just conveyed from the deep, wrapped as they were in their heavy watch coats, proceeded to hoist out the boat, and then to load it with kegs of liquor which it was never intended should pay any duty to the king's gracious majesty, and with sundry well-packed bales, which were to be landed with a like disregard of the rules and regulations of the Custom House; and long ere the lading was completed, more than a dozen men had assembled on the beach, and were engaged in launching another boat, to aid in the quick discharge of the precious cargo. 
               While this was being effected, the captain had landed in the first boat, and each man, taking a keg or bale upon his shoulder, proceeded to ascend the cliff with his burthen, with a speed and agility, that not only showed his own strength, but a perfect knowledge, even amidst the darkness and the storm, of every inch of ground he stepped upon. To ascend the apparently precipitous side of the cliff, would have seemed, even in fine weather, and by day-light, an arduous, if not an impossible task to a landsman, yet these men tripped aloft, as lightly, and with as much apparent ease, as a landsman would have ascended a staircase, or a sailor the rigging of a ship-and soon they were lost to view in the darkness. 
               "'Tis a fearful storm this, Tapley," observed Captain Benson, to a man who appeared, from his actions, to possess some authority over the party on shore-"I don't know as I've ever been out in a harder gale. Have any of the revenue cutters been about lately?" 
               "Not since the weather set in so terrible bad," answered the man addressed by the name of Tapley. "Last week the 'Philistines' were out in force, but they got afeerd of the weather, and I larn as they've all run into Dungenness for shelter. The coast-guard men, too, I reckon, are all under cover, to-night. You couldn't have had a better chance, Captain Benson. The devil don't forget his own, eh? ha! ha! ha!-he gives a chance sometimes. But what sort of a cargo have you brought over from Johnny Crapeau's land?" 
               "The best I ever brought, Tapley, and the knowledge of that induced me to run it, even in the teeth of this gale; and to tell you the truth, it was a ticklish job. I am glad the "Lively Sally's" got in safely; she's a good and a bonny craft, and she had need to show her good qualities to-night. The Frenchmen told me they were certain I shouldn't be able to make the run; but I laughed in their teeth, and here I am, and there rides the "Lively Sally," in safety-although, if this cargo goes all right, I could afford to lose even her, and I'd most as soon lose the number of my own mess." 
               "No fears of the cargo, Captain Benson; the coast-guard men's got mighty suspicious of late, and they've been searching the cliffs, and they diskivered two or three casks, and some good prog, stowed away in one on 'em; but the stow hole that you and I know, eluded their sarch, and the cargo landed from the "Lively Sally" 'll be safe enough, you know where, by daylight in the morning." 
               Some hours passed away, while the unloading of the schooner, and the disposal of her cargo was being proceeded with, and by two o'clock in the morning, the work was nearly done, and the brandy, and silk, and lace, safely stowed away in the very heart of the town in which the good people of Folkestone were sleeping, unsuspicious of the flagrant breach of the laws that was taking place in their midst. 
               Not, be it understood, that they would have greatly troubled themselves about it, had the violation been going on in their sight, when wide awake-provided, no revenue officers had been near to them, and to warn the authorities of their bounden duty to their liege sovereign. Folkestone is now a town of importance, being the terminus of the railway travel, from London to the coast, and consequently the temporary abiding place of the host of continental travellers, as is Boulogne-sur-Mer, the terminus of the coast-wise railroads from Paris-but at the period of which we now write, which was ten or twelve years anterior to the date of the commencement of our story, Folkestown was a simple fishing place, noted for the smuggling propensities and the ignorance of its inhabitants, although they boasted of the antiquity of their town, and asserted that it once possessed seven churches, and we know not how many thousands of inhabitants. But this must have been some time prior to the Norman conquest of the island, if, indeed, it ever had been the case, since not a ruin was left to show that the town had ever been of larger dimensions than it now was-and as to seven churches, whew! One was enough now in all conscience, to hold ten times as many persons as ever visited it at one time. 
               We have been digressing from the thread of our story, although, as we shall have in future to recur to the events of this night, and to the place where they occurred, this short account of Folkestone and its people, in olden times, may not be altogether out of place. 
               We observed that by two o'clock in the morning, the contraband cargo was all safely landed, and the "Lively Sally's" decks, and cabin, and hold, so arranged as to give her the semblance of a quiet, harmless, fishing boat. The storm still raged as furiously as ever, but the crew of the schooner had changed their wet clothing, and their friends from the shore having come on board, the entire party were solacing and recruiting themselves, after their troubles and hardships, with a good meal, and with deep draughts of the brandy imported from the opposite coast, a few gallons having been left behind for private consumption. One man only was left on deck to keep the watch, which, even in that secure haven, was thought necessary, during the prevalence of so severe a storm, the watcher being relieved at stated intervals by one of his shipmates. Daylight began to appear, and the shores were soon lined with anxious spectators, and glasses were levelled towards the Downs, where the fleet had been reported to lie at anchor. The gale was unbroken, but the haze which had obscured the vision on the previous day, had nearly cleared away. From the cliffs, and, even from the decks of the "Lively Sally," now, the expanse of the Downs was plainly visible. If a large fleet had been riding at anchor there, it had nearly disappeared. A second glance through the spy-glasses told a sad tale. The ships had indeed been there, but many, it was now seen, had been stranded upon the shore, others had, perhaps, escaped to a more safe anchorage, and those which had vainly endeavored to beat out to sea, were just visible on the lower part of the Goodwin's. 
               The waves were dashing over their broken hulls, and their very masts were hidden, as every breaker, of a size somewhat larger than the rest, burst upon them. For them and for their crews, there was no hope-all must perish. In the direction of Dungenness only, one ship could be espied. She had succeeded, apparently, in beating out before the storm had reached its height; and now, having secured sea room, was endeavoring to scud, either for the Downs, or the river. Her top-gallant masts were all struck, the only sail hoisted was the fore-top-sail, and that was close reefed; under this she was making way rapidly indeed; but not without falling every moment, faster and faster to leeward. It was, in truth, manifest that if she persisted in running, she must go ashore before she reached Deal, and of that her crew appeared to be as fully convinced as those who watched her from the land. 
               She was now abreast of Folkestone, with the hurricane right on shore, and herself not above a mile and a half from the breakers. Her decks, it could be seen, were crowded with people, some of whom held on by the rigging and shrouds, others by the bulkheads and bulwarks, while some were lashed to the wheel, by which they vainly endeavored to guide her. 
               An attempt was made to wear, but it failed. The ship reeled round, and drove towards the shore with a velocity which caused even the boldest of the spectators, too well used as they were to such scenes, to shut their eyes that they might escape, at least, the horror of beholding her strike. 
               But she did not strike. Two anchors were let go at once from the bow. By little short of a miracle, they both held, and as if Heaven itself had specially interposed, the tempest suddenly lulled. The waves, however, ran as they had run before, "mountains high," consequently no boat could be launched to her assistance, and she rode, straining and pitching her bows under, at the mercy of a couple of pieces of crooked iron. 
               Thus she remained in a condition of imminent peril throughout that dismal day. The quieting in some degree of the angry waters was anxiously looked for. Had only the faintest chance appeared of being able to launch a boat with safety, hundreds of bold hearts were ready to volunteer to save the crew, if possible, at the risk of their own lives; but hope gradually gave way to alarm, and alarm grew into despair soon after darkness fell. The sun went down fiery red; the wind began to renew its violence. It came for awhile in alternate lulls and gusts, which succeeded each other more rapidly every moment, and at length ended in a tremendous hurricane, such as had prevailed during the preceding day and night. The ship was hidden from view in the surrounding darkness. Towards midnight, the report of a gun, heard amidst the roar of the tempest, assured the anxious townspeople that the vessel had struck. It came upon them, like the last despairing shriek of a drowning man, who cries out because nature so urges him, though aware that no human aid is at hand. A multitude of lights were now visible along the shore; voices and shouts were heard on all sides, and presently people were seen congregating at one point, where the breakers stretched far out to sea. There now again in sight lay the ship, her masts gone, her hull broken, in the midst of the breakers, a full mile and a half from the land. 
               Another gun was fired-it was the last. Planks, bulkheads and spars now began to drive upon the shingle; a sort of rushing noise came from the wreck, which instantly disappeared. She had split into fragments, and of the living creatures who had hitherto clung to her, the majority found a grave amid the surf. 
                
               The spectators shuddered. There are few spectacles more appalling, and at the same time more full of excitement, than that of a shipwreck; for not only is the attention drawn to the vessel and crew, but to the hurry and bustle on shore, and to the real sympathy often displayed by men from whose outward appearance little sympathy could be argued. The cries and exclamations and movements of the crowd all tend to give the thing a degree of additional interest, which, in sober earnest, it does not require. It is enough, to see a number of our fellow creatures hovering on the brink of eternity, without having our feelings additionally worked upon by the proceedings of those around us. 
               A shout was now raised for the boats. 
               "Where is the Dauntless?" shouted one. 
               "High and dry;" exclaimed another. 
               "Is the Nancy safe?" 
               "No; she is in pieces." 
               And so it was, that not a boat or barge, of all that usually lay at anchor in the harbor, could be brought into immediate use. 
               But the Kentish fishermen are not restrained from action by trifles. 
               "Launch the Dauntless, boys!" "Down with the Sisters!" was echoed from mouth to mouth, and in a second, a hundred willing hands were at work, hauling the boats named from the beach, where the ebb tide had left them, and rolling them along the shingle. 
               "Hurrah! hurrah!" was now the only cry uttered. 
               Down they came over the loose stones, till they neared the reach of the waves, and then, having watched a receding billow, the gallant party who dragged them, hurled them into the breakers, and half a dozen stout fellows sprang into each boat as it rose upon the foam. 
               "God speed ye! God speed ye! Away-away!" and away the daring fellows went. 
                
               But the next wave was fatal to both boats. Over they rolled, bottom upwards, and the crews were dashed upon the beach. 
               But a third boat was seen, which had emerged, no one knew from what spot, and had passed safely through the surf, and was now rapidly nearing the wreck. 
               The astonished spectators looked as if they thought some magic was at work. The boat was manned by a crew of but two persons, and she bore but one lantern in her bow, and it was truly a nervous thing to watch the light appearing and disappearing as the brave boat rose and fell with the rise and fall of the water. 
               "Who can it be?" was asked by hundreds. At length the cry was heard, "It is old Benson and his brave boy, Harry. The boat belongs to the 'Lively Sally.' She must have come into port last night during the storm. They are a sad set, those Bensons, but they are bold as lions. The lad has the courage of a veteran hero." 
               Such were the remarks that were made, as the progress of the boat was anxiously watched. It was the skiff of the "Lively Sally"; the crew, all save the captain and the boy, had gone ashore and mingled with the spectators on the beach,-but seeing the two boats capsize, Benson had called to his boy to aid him in launching their frail skiff and going to the rescue, and the boy had willingly obeyed. 
               The last hope of the spectators was now centred in this one small boat. She was watched until she appeared to have gained the place where the vessel had disappeared. There she lingered, rising and falling, her light glancing and disappearing, to the unspeakable dismay of the people on shore, for a full quarter of an hour, when, having, as it seemed, done her utmost, she put about and made towards land. 
               Twenty torches were held aloft to guide her progress, which was like that of the lightning; and her crew watching the opportunity, she mounted on the top of a wave, and rushed with its white foam far up the beach. She was immediately seized by a dozen strong hands, who secured her against the ebbing, and she was safe. 
               But the search which her dauntless rowers had undertaken, was all but fruitless. So complete was the wreck, that they could not perceive any single portion of the vessel more attractive than the rest. Nothing could be observed in the darkness of the night, except floating boards, all of them without occupants, and hence their sole success was in saving the life of one man, whose pulse had almost ceased to beat, and that of a child-a female infant, who was not so far gone. Perhaps the man had exhausted his own strength in endeavoring to save the child. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE TWO SURVIVORS OF THE SHIP-WRECKED CREW-A DEATH-BED SCENE AT THE RECTORY. 
               "MAKE way there, make way," was shouted by several voices; and, violent as was the tempest, in spite of the driving rain and the chilling wind, a score of heads were momentarily uncovered, in token of respect, as an aged man, well wrapped up in a cloak and manifold comforters, appeared amongst the throng of hardy seamen, accompanied by a serving man, who carried a lanthorn in his hand, which was swaying to and fro in the wind. The new comer was Mr. Pearce, the vicar of the parish, whose parsonage was near the church, on the brow of the cliff. The clergyman had watched the whole painful scene from his library window, which overlooked the channel, and, observing the boat returning, had come down to the beach in hopes to be of service, should any of the crew or passengers of the unfortunate vessel have been saved. 
               "Sad work here, indeed sir-sad work," said an old weather-beaten man, as the clergyman approached. "As complete a wreck, sir, as ever I saw." 
               "Some of the crew or passengers are saved, I hope, Elliott," said Mr. Pearce. 
               "Only one man, sir; and as yet we don't know who or what he is-or, indeed, whether he's likely to live or not; he's mortial far gone, sir-and one little girl-a mere baby, poor thing! She's the man's darter, I take it-for he must have taken great care of her, and held her out of the water, or the little creetur would ha' been drownded, to a moral sartainty; so I fancy it 'll turn out to be a passenger as is saved." 
               While this conversation had been going forward, the vicar and the seaman Elliott had reached a small shed, used as a bathing house, located a hundred yards from the tide mark, and into which the rescued man and child had been carried. 
               They entered the shed, and found there the rude but kind-hearted fishermen, employing such means as they thought best to resuscitate the bodies, from one of which, that of the man, the life seemed to have departed. 
               The child had already been brought round, and was giving audible evidence of her revival, by crying for her ayah, and her papa; but, although by this time a surgeon had come from the town, and had begun to apply restoratives, the man had only just commenced to show symptoms of returning consciousness. 
               One or two of the fishermen's wives had been also attracted to the scene of disaster; and one of these was nursing the girl, who, notwithstanding her forlorn condition, was a pretty little creature of some two or three years old; but, notwithstanding the efforts of the woman to pacify her, she still continued to call loudly for her ayah.
                
               "What can the poor thing mean?" asked the woman, to whom the term was incomprehensible; and the bystanders equally declared their ignorance; until an old sailor, hearing the child, observed: 
               "Why the ship as is wrecked is an Ingeeman, and of course, came from the Ingees. I've been to Calcutta many a time. Ayah's the outlandish word they use for the native nurses. The poor babby wants her nurse, that's all." 
               "She'll never see her nurse again," responded the woman, sadly. 
               Meanwhile the man had so far revived, as to render it advisable to remove him to more comfortable quarters, and Mr. Pearce at once proposed that he and the child should be taken to the vicarage. 
               "If some of you," said he, "will carry this poor gentleman and the child to my house, I will send Thomas on before to tell the housekeeper to get a couch ready; they will be better tended by Mrs. Simmons, poor things! than they will be at the inn." 
               A dozen men immediately proffered their services, and selecting two or three, with whom he was better acquainted than with the rest, to assist the man, and desiring the woman to bring the child along, the vicar sent his servant on before-hand to bid his housekeeper make preparations for his unwonted and unfortunate visitors. 
               Arrived at the parsonage, which was not above a quarter of a mile distant, the man was undressed and laid in a bed, which the housekeeper had already prepared for him, and the child was taken under Mrs. Simmons' own especial care,-and some mulled wine and other cordials being administered to the stranger, he was left to his repose; and it was not until a late hour on the following day, that the ringing of his bell gave testimony that he had awoke from the sleep into which the narcotics given him under the direction of a physician had lulled him. 
               The child was up long before, and although she still called for papa and ayah, she appeared to have quite recovered from the effects of the dreadful accident that had befallen her, and had partaken of a hearty breakfast. 
               When the stranger, whose appearance and language showed that he was a gentleman, joined the family circle of the good vicar, both the clergyman and his housekeeper were struck with his demeanor. He was very tall and of a commanding and noble figure-his features, too, were fine; but there was an expression of wildness in his dark eyes, which could not pass unobserved. His age appeared to be about fifty; perhaps it was under that-for black hair soon turns gray, and the lines which were strongly marked in his forehead, seemed to be the traces of violent passions, rather than of time. With respect to his manner, it is not very easy to describe it. As we have said, no one could mistake that he was a gentleman; but there was a restlessness and incoherence in his conversation, which produced the reverse of an agreeable sensation upon those around him. Curiously enough, of his own accord, he made no allusion to the events of the previous day, further than to ask if the child was saved, and on being told she was, he desired to see her. He also requested pen, ink and paper, to write a letter to London for funds-for, of course, he had lost his all; but he said he should immediately receive a supply, which, in fact, he did by the very ensuing mail. 
               Naturally enough, reference was made to the awful shipwreck, and several ladies and gentlemen of the surrounding country called at the vicarage to offer assistance, should it be temporarily required, and to congratulate him on his escape; but he abruptly changed the subject, by asking numerous trifling questions relative to the country round about. 
               Had any person entered the vicar's parlor ignorant of the mode of the stranger's arrival, he would have imagined that he had landed the day before in perfect safety, and in the usual way. 
               The effect of this strange behavior, especially upon the ladies, was to create in them feelings of perfect horror; and not more than two days had elapsed from the night of the shipwreck, before the neighbors began to speak of the stranger with dismay. The child, a lovely little girl, just beginning to speak plain, he was evidently fond of. She lispingly called him "Papa," but neither the vicar, nor his friends thought that relationship existed between them. At least, he never spoke of her as his daughter, and seemed studiously to avoid answering any questions that were put to him concerning her. It soon became evident, too, that the stranger, who had not yet even told his name, was in the last stage of a consumption. The excitement and effect of the shipwreck had caused a brief reaction to take place; and although evidently feeble, it was thought for a day or two that his weakness was the result of the hardships and fatigue he had undergone; but instead of growing stronger, on the fourth day, he became visibly en feebled to an alarming degree; towards night, a fit of coughing produced a hmorrhage of the lungs, and the next morning he was unable to rise from his bed. 
               Meanwhile ample remittances had arrived from London; but he had directed the letter to be sent to the care of the vicar of Folkestone, telling the clergyman that he had done so, without informing him of his name; and though, perhaps, the good vicar had good reason to ask it, he did not deem it consistent with politeness to demand it. In fact, he began to think the unfortunate man, in addition to being near death's door, was not altogether in his right mind. 
               Whoever he was, he was exceedingly anxious to prosecute his journey to London; but the physicians who had been called in, said firmly that any attempt to move would cost him his life; and they told the vicar privately, that at the utmost, he could not survive many weeks, and that a second attack of internal bleeding, which might occur at any moment, might be immediately fatal. 
               Mr. Pearce found himself placed in a very awkward position, and at length he came to the resolution to tell the patient of his danger, and to advise him to make such final worldly arrangements as he might deem necessary. The stranger had been about ten days in his house when he came to this resolve, but just as he was debating with himself how he should most delicately perform the sad and unpleasant duty, his servant entered the library, and informed him that the gentleman upstairs abed wished to see him. 
               "Who, Thomas, Mr. --?" said the vicar, thinking, perhaps, the serving-man might somehow or other have heard the name from the lips of the patient. 
                
               "Well, sir," said the man, "I don't know the gentleman's name, sir. He's a strange gentleman, sir; us servants call him 'The Stranger.'" 
               "Humph!" exclaimed Mr. Pearce, "tell Mr. --, that is, the-the stranger, I shall be happy to wait upon him immediately," and just waiting long enough to arrange in his own mind how he had best proceed with his resolve, the vicar went up stairs and entered the chamber of the sick man. 
               "He's very bad, sir, very bad," whispered Mrs. Simmons, the housekeeper, who met her master at the door, and very bad the vicar found the unfortunate gentleman. The hand of death evidently already pressed heavily upon him. Since the previous day, when Mr. Pearce had paid him a visit, the change in his appearance had become so marked, that the vicar would hardly have recognized him. 
               He held out his hand to the clergyman, and in reply to the question as to how he found himself, shocked the good man, notwithstanding he knew it, and saw it, by saying abruptly, though faintly: 
               "Find myself?-I am dying." 
               After a moment's pause, he motioned the vicar to incline his ear to him, that he might speak with less effort, and whispered- 
               "The child." 
               "Shall be brought up to you immediately," said the clergyman. 
               The dying man smiled, and faintly pressed the hand he held. 
               The little girl was brought in by the housekeeper, and placed on the bed. The stranger passed his arm around her and pressed her to his bosom, while tears coursed freely down his pallid cheeks, and seeing her papa weep, the child wept also. 
               Again the dying man motioned the vicar to listen. 
               "The gallant fellows," he said, "who saved me and her," looking towards the child. "They have received the present I sent them?" 
               "Yes," returned the vicar, "and have expressed their thanks." 
               "Can they be sent for," continued the stranger, "now, instantly, or it will be too late? I wish to see them." 
               "I believe they can be found now, though they have no permanent residence in Folkestone," replied the vicar. "I will endeavor to find them, at all events," and he immediately sent his servant to request their attendance, if, indeed, they had not already left. 
               The dying man fixed his gaze upon the child, who had wept herself to sleep upon his bosom. The gaze was so earnest, so mournful-that the vicar, endeavoring to divine his thoughts, observed: 
               "You are troubled respecting the child. If she has friends in England, I will take care she is sent to them; if not, I will protect her myself. My dear sir, set your mind at ease with regard to the child. Whatever money you may leave shall-" 
               "Laura will have abundant means of support," said the stranger, with more firmness than he had spoken during the interview. Then, fearing that he had hurt the feelings of the good man, he added: 
               "But I thank you; it was kind of you; I thank you." 
               It was the first time he had mentioned the Christian name even of the little girl, and Mr. Pearce listened, with pardonable eagerness, in the expectation of hearing the surname also mentioned; but in vain. The dying man continued: 
               "Laura has no relations or friends in England; she is an orphan; I am not her father; but she has no friend but me, nor I any one to care for but her. And I must go from her--" He stopped, as if overcome by his feelings, but, after a few minutes, resumed: 
               "She must go to America-to the United States-where I was going with her, after having visited London, had not death, which I knew was hovering near me, come upon me so suddenly, after all, so unexpectedly. When I am dead, you will read this letter,"-handing him one from beneath his pillow, which he must have written a day or two previous. "It will explain all; but I trust you to keep the secret therein told, until the day shall arrive when it may be safely revealed. Pray, ask me no more questions now; I am tired, and will try to sleep. Leave Laura with me, and if the men who saved us can be found, bring them to me as soon as they come. There may be no time to lose." 
               The good vicar would willingly have spoken of matters concerning the dying man's eternal welfare, but he turned away, buried his head deep in the pillow, and endeavored to compose himself to sleep. 
               It was evening before the servant returned, bringing with him, however, Benson the smuggler, and his son; and, according to his promise, though wondering greatly at the proceeding, the vicar took them immediately into the stranger's bedroom. He was awake, and evidently sinking fast. The child had been removed from the chamber. 
               The dying man beckoned the rough smuggler and his boy to the bedside. "You saved my life," he murmured faintly. "It was a gallant deed, and should merit gratitude; but I feel none on that score. You saved Laura's life-the child's-and I thank you." 
               The smuggler commenced a speech in his rude way, asserting that he had done no more than his duty, and what any seaman would have done under similar circumstances, when he was interrupted by an impatient gesture from the dying man. 
               "I have not time," he said, "to listen to your words. I have yet a favor to ask of you. I am dying. The child must go to the United States. There the property that will one day be hers, is chiefly invested. Can you go with her, and protect her on the voyage, and deliver her into the hands of the person to whom I shall charge you?" 
               The smuggler hesitated; and the dying man resumed: 
               "I will amply repay you, or cause you to be paid-for I shall be dead ere many hours have passed away-for your trouble and loss of time." 
               "'Tis not that, master," replied the smuggler; "but it would be ruination in me to leave my trade, and my ship-the 'Lively Sally,'-here. But," he added, after a pause, "here's my boy, Harry-if so be as he's a mind, he can go. He's only a boy; but, though I say it myself, you're a witness that he's got more sperrit than half the men as is to be met with." 
               "Thank you, my friend," said the stranger, "I will pay his passage, and the arrangements will be made after I am gone, by Mr. Pearce, my generous host here-he will have full instructions how to act, and I feel he will act justly. Now, my boy," addressing young Henry Benson, "will you go?" 
               The fancy pleased the adventurous spirit of the lad, and he frankly and promptly replied that he was willing to go, if matters could be arranged to satisfy his father. 
               "I will talk with Mr. Pearce about that," murmured the stranger. "Let me trust all is settled; now leave me. I am unable to talk any longer; but do not fail me." 
               He sank back on his pillow as he spoke, completely exhausted, and observing this, the vicar left the room with the smuggler and his son. 
               At midnight, Mr. Pearce was hastily summoned by the housekeeper, who informed him that the stranger was dying. 
               The vicar hurriedly dressed himself, and hastened to the sick chamber. The little girl had already been brought in and placed on the bed beside him. When the vicar reached the apartment, a film had gathered over the eyes of the dying man, and the rattle was already in his throat; his attenuated fingers were plucking nervously at the bed clothes, and an occasional casional wan and ghastly smile mocked his pale lips. It was apparent, from the disconnected murmurs that escaped him, that his mind was wandering, and that his fancy was leading him to other and distant climes. 
               Still there seemed to be occasional moments of consciousness, and during one of these, the vicar stooped his head to the ear of the dying man, and whispered- 
               "I will pray." 
               "Yes, yes!-pray!" was faintly replied; and then again came the nervous twitching of the fingers, and the succession of ghastly, unmeaning smiles, that told that the sufferer was unable to listen to the prayer. Nevertheless, the vicar knelt and prayed long and fervently, and was on the point of rising, when, with a strength of which he appeared incapable, the dying man suddenly threw off the bed-clothes and sprang from the bed. He was gently replaced on it; another ghastly smile played upon his lips; his fingers played not now with the bed-clothing, but moved nervously in the air, as though twitching at shadows. He gasped for breath; there was a brief struggle of agony, and all was over. 
                
               The vicar of Folkestone is sitting in his library; he has seen that everything has been properly attended to in the chamber of death above stairs; and now he has bethought him of the letter which the stranger placed in his hand in the morning. It were well he had done so, otherwise the clergyman would have found himself very awkwardly and unpleasantly situated. He has taken the letter from the bureau and broken open the seal. What means that sudden start, and that ejaculation of surprise? The letter is laid aside for a few minutes, and the vicar sits in deep thought: but he again takes it up and finishes its perusal. He is apparently satisfied with the result, for he folds it up calmly, and locks it up carefully in the bureau, retaining, however, in his possession another letter he has found enclosed in the one directed to himself, which he has just been reading. 
                
               Mrs. Simmons enters with her master's bed-room candlestick. The good old lady is curious to know something about the man now lying dead in the house, and of the little child who is quietly sleeping in her own bed-room. She has seen the letter, and observes: 
               "It is strange, sir, that the poor gentleman never told his name, nor that of the child either, except that it was Laura." 
               "Yes, very strange, indeed, Mrs. Simmons," replies the vicar, abstractedly. "The child's name, I have since learnt, is Denman-Laura Denman; but the deceased gentleman is no relative of hers. Let Thomas go into the town in the morning, Mrs. Simmons, and tell Weevil, the undertaker, to call and prepare the coffin and materials for the funeral." 
               "Yes, sir. What name shall he say?" asks Mrs. Simmons, who possesses a shrewd idea that the letter she saw her master reading through the chink of the door, gave some information she would like to hear; or else why did he start and lay the letter aside? Mrs. Simmons is certain she saw her master start when he first glanced at the letter, after having opened it. 
               "Just let him bid the undertaker to come and measure the strange gentleman who was saved from the wreck a short time since, and who has died at the vicarage." 
               "But it is so strange, sir," pursues Mrs. Simmons, who does not like to be thwarted. "It is so strange, to mention no name!" 
               For once the good old lady is at fault; the vicar makes no direct reply, but, taking up his candlestick, he observes- 
               "Good night, or rather, I should say, good morning, Mrs. Simmons. It must be near four o'clock. Let Thomas call me at eight," and retires to his bed-room. 
               Two days after this scene had occurred, a simple funeral procession left the parsonage for the churchyard adjoining, and a plain coffin, bearing no inscription, was let down into a grave; the grave was filled up, and for some days there was much talk in the little town about the mysterious matter, and much speculation as to whether the parson himself knew the name of the deceased gentleman, and what he intended to do with the child. 
               Meanwhile the vicar had written to London, and received a letter in reply, enclosing a supply of money to meet the expenses he had incurred, and to pay the passage of the little girl and her young protector and fellow-voyager to New York, and to furnish both with all that was needful for the voyage; and the clergyman himself accompanied them to London, and saw them on board the packet-ship, and charged the captain concerning them, and before he left he placed in the hands of young Henry Benson, a letter-the same letter that was enclosed in the letter given to him by the stranger on his deathbed-directed to "Captain Jonathan Martingale, of the whaleship Pacific, of Salem, now refitting after a four years' cruize in the South Seas." 
                
               The packet-ship arrived in safety at New York, and thence Henry Benson, boy as he was, went to Salem with his infant charge, found Captain Martingale, and delivered Laura into his hands. The captain read the letter addressed to him, looked as much surprised as the vicar had done, but did not take matters quite so easily. He sputtered and swore at the idea of being bothered with a baby; but apparently was cognizant of enough to cause him, however, against his will, to undertake the singular charge. The child was placed in the care of a proper person, in Salem, and when of a fitting age sent to school in New York, and subsequently, as the reader knows, was taken by the captain to preside as mistress over Harpoon Lodge. But this was after Mrs. Martingale's death. The captain had no children of his own, and it would have been as much as his domestic peace was worth, to have taken home an infant of two years' old to Mrs. Martingale, and have told her a story about his having been appointed guardian to the child. He wouldn't have got Mrs. M. to believe that story. 
                
               "And now, my good lad, what are you going to do with yourself? Are you going back home again, or what?" asked Captain Martingale of young Benson one day, after everything had been satisfactorily arranged respecting the child, Laura. 
               The boy didn't exactly know. 
               "Well, then," continued the captain, "you're a likely chap, and smart, too, boy as you are; s'pose you take a trip with me, and I'll make a man of you?" 
               And Harry Benson did make two trips to the South Seas of four years' each in duration, when, at the age of twenty-one, greatly to the regret of Captain Martingale, who had advanced him to the post of second mate, and who was much attached to him-for the rude, adventurous spirit of the youth pleased the rough skipper right well-he went to England, in consequence of having received a letter from his father. 
               But the relation of what specially required the return home of Henry Benson, at this juncture, we must leave to another chapter. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               THE SMUGGLERS CAPTURED. 
               THE letter, which had called the young man home, was couched as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              FOLKESTONE, ---, 18-.
                            
                           MY DEAR SON,-The old woman's dead, and your father feels very lonesome, more by token that free trade's looking down-and the d-d coast-guard men's more down upon us than ever; but, blast 'em, I'll be even with 'em yet. They've tuk the "Lively Sally," now a year agone, just about the time your mother slipped her cable. Misfortunes never comes alone; but, thank goodness, the old woman had done her duty for many a long year, afore she slipped off the hook; and so had the "Lively Sally," and paid herself over and over again-so things might have been worse, anyhow. I've bought another craft, and christened her the "Bouncing Bess." She's twin sister to the "Lively Sally," but a bigger vessel, and perhaps a thought handsomer; though I shall never forget the "Sally," if I was to live a hundred years, and have fifty "Bess's." Howsomever, boy, if anything's to be done, it must be done at once-that is to say, within the next six months. They're going to double the coast-guard, and the revenue cutters-so I'm going to make a bold stroke, and a last one, and, if needs be, to fight to the death: but, boy, I want you alongside o' me; so, on receipt of this here-if it finds ye in America, ship yourself for home as quick as possible, and get the blessing of your father, and maybe, in a year or two, the "Bouncing Bess" thrown in the bargain; for, as Will Watch says- 
                                  
                                    "This next run, if I've luck, furls the sails of my trading- 
                                    In dock I can lie, sarve a friend too, besides." 
                                 
                              
                            
                           I shall expect ye, boy, within the next three months; so no more at present, from your affectionate father, 
                           
                              HENRY BENSON.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
                
               The young man had, for some time, possessed a strong desire to revisit his home, and see his father and mother; and the desire of returning was not lessened when he heard of his mother's death. He had always been more with his father than his mother, having, from the time he was able to walk, accompanied the smuggler in all his illegal cruises; and a feeling of compunction came over him, at the thought of the old man's loneliness. He told Captain Martingale of his resolve, bade him good-by, and promised to see him again, if ever he returned to America; and getting, through the interest of the captain, a berth as second mate on board a packet ship for the run to England, Henry set sail, arrived at Liverpool in sixteen days, posted from there to London, and thence hastened to Dover, and, within three weeks after leaving the port of New York, was shaking the hand of the old smuggler, his father, in his cottage at Folkestone, where the old man now resided. 
               It was a desperate affair, that which the old man had sent for his son to engage with him in. He had purchased with the profits of the "Lively Sally"-the profits which had been gained by that vessel before she was taken by the revenue officers-a larger and handsomer vessel, constructed on a similar model; and, in view of the increased restrictions upon smuggling, he had resolved upon one last desperate adventure-an adventure which, if he succeeded, would secure him a competence, upon which he could retire, and take his place amongst the magnates of Folkestone; or, if he failed, an adventure which would insure his utter ruin. 
               It needed not many words, to explain to the adventurous and reckless youth, the nature of the service which his father had resolved upon. 
               It was simply to run across to the opposite coast of France, purchase a cargo of brandy, laces, silks, and other contraband goods, to the full extent of his means, and then, having armed his vessel, to "run" these goods, in defiance of coast-guard or revenue cutter, at all hazards, even though he were compelled to fire upon the flag they bore. 
               Young Benson, bred to all a smuggler's instincts, and to a life of peril and desperation, and inculcated, during his sojourn in the United States, with a love of daring, and a defiance of such laws as he considered derogatory to his dignity and independence as a man, readily consented to aid and abet his father in this enterprise; and, accordingly, the "Bouncing Bess" set sail for France; took in a cargo, and ventured to sea, with the bold determination, on the part of the crew, to set at defiance all the recently legalized arrangements for the prevention of smuggling. 
               The night on which they took their departure from a small harbor in the vicinity of Calais, was favorable to their desperate enterprise. It was somewhat stormy, and dark as smuggler, robber, or pirate could desire. If the "Bouncing Bess" could only be run into the customary haven, without attracting the attention of the coast-guard on the heights, or the revenue vessels in the offing, all would be well. If not, the elder Benson, seconded by his son, resolved to risk a battle, and to fight their schooner to the last. 
               All went well, until the schooner neared the land; the faithful watch-fire in the clefts of the cliff was espied; the old smuggler clasped his son's hand. 
               "All promises fairly, my gallant boy," he said; "and if this cargo can only be landed, your father's fortune is made. It is a desperate life, this of ours, after all; and p'raps it would be best that we should both give it up after this." 
               The young man did not reply. He returned the pressure of his father's hand; but his gaze was anxiously directed to windward. 
               "Father," he said, at length, "I fancy I see the looming of the sails of a vessel amidst the gloom of the night. I have thought so for some minutes past." 
                
               And he stooped down, and gazed earnestly into the darkness. 
               "I am sure of it," he continued. "I was right; we have been seen by the watch in the Martello towers above, and information has been given to the revenue-cutters. There is one in pursuit of us. See-there!" 
               And he pointed in the darkness to the white glimmer of a vessel's sails, now becoming every moment more plainly visible. 
               The old smuggler saw the sails of his enemies as well as his son. He took up his night-glass, and peered anxiously through it into the gloom. 
               "By George! there are two of them," he said, "and close upon us. Severe odds, by Jupiter; but we will fight them, boy, at all hazards. It is neck or naught with me, to-night." 
               At this moment, the watch-fire on the cliff, which, hidden by the butting rocks, had shed a bright gleam over the channel, but had been concealed from the watchers on land, changed its white light for one of blue, and then, suddenly, all was darkness. 
               "A signal of alarm!" exclaimed old Benson. "By --, the Philistines are down upon us in right earnest." 
               And scarcely had the words passed his lips, ere a bright flash lit up the night. A loud report followed, and a shot whistled across the decks of the "Bouncing Bess." 
               "Prepare to meet them, lads," sung out the smuggler captain; but hardly had the order escaped his lips, before a second shot, from another quarter, whistled over his head, and then another passed through the schooner's foresail, splitting the tightly-stretched sail to ribbons, and a hoarse voice was heard, shouting through a speaking-trumpet, and calling upon the smugglers to surrender. 
               "Never!" shouted back the smuggler chief. "Give it to them, boys!" and a shot was fired from the "Long Tom" on the "Bouncing Bess's" deck, in defiance of the summons. 
                
               The smugglers had been taken at a disadvantage, and the force opposed to them was overpowering; nevertheless, they fought bravely. Two vessels, each of larger tonnage and weightier metal, poured their shot into them simultaneously. The smugglers fought desperately hand to hand, for defeat was ruin and death, though they had sworn not to surrender, the captain and his son being both wounded, and one half the crew, consisting of fifteen persons, having been killed; but some craven at last hauled down the flag of defiance, flaunting at the gaft end, and the "Bouncing Bess" became the prize of the Revenue cutters "Alacrity" and "Vengeance." 
               It was a proud day with the custom-house authorities upon the coast, when it was known that the famed smugglers, old Henry Benson and his son, had been taken. Twelve men of the crew of the revenue cutters had been slain in the conflict, and the smugglers stood arraigned on the double charge of violating the revenue laws, and of murder. Great interest was felt in Folkestone in their behalf. With all their recklessness and lawlessness, they were known to have performed many gallant deeds, and great exertions were made to obtain a commutation of the sentence of death. Mr. Pearce, the good vicar of Folkestone, exerted himself greatly in their favor, but in vain. The father and son were condemned to death, and the rest of the survivors among the crew, to transportation for life. They were paraded through the streets of Folkestone, hand-cuffed, and closely guarded by a file of men-of-wars men, with an officer at their head; but it was rather a parade of triumph to the smugglers than to their captors. Fair ladies waved their handerchiefs at them as they passed, and threw flowers in their path, while the mob shouted loudly in their favor, bidding them "cheer up," while deep and loud execrations fell on the ears of their guard. 
               All this manifestation of popular feeling was, however, of no avail. The smugglers were doomed to death, without hope of mercy. It was just such an example as had long been wanted; and, as in those days, the sentence and the penalty were not long apart, forty-eight hours from the period of their trial, saw them pinioned in the court-yard of the county jail at Maidstone, attended by a clergyman, and looked upon by a commiserating crowd-for no one then thought smuggling a crime, nor saw crime in their defending themselves, at any hazard: and, with such expressions of pity from the crowd as might have been elicited towards martyrs in a good cause, old Benson and his son swung beneath the gallows, until they were pronounced dead by the attending medical officer; and then, the bodies being cut down, they were delivered to their friends for interment. 
               On the afternoon of the day of the execution, a funeral cortege passed through the county town of Maidstone, followed by a crowd of sympathizing spectators, and two coffins were lowered into a humble grave at Maidstone churchyard. 
               But while this ceremony was still going forward, a party of rough, reckless looking men, had assembled in a cavern in the cliffs, near Maidstone. Among them, were two men of more refined appearance, who carried a singular apparatus, which they arranged, in a mysterious manner, on a table in the cavern; and on another long table, temporarily erected for the occasion, lay a suspicious looking bundle, which might have been contraband goods. It was strange to hear the conversation that was going on amongst this rude assembly. 
               A glass of brandy was filled out to each, and drank-and, strange to say, on this occasion the rude smugglers seemed subdued, while the two refined-looking gentlemen appeared perfectly at their ease. They proceeded to arrange the apparatus they had brought with them, which consisted of a large porcelain vessel, containing a number of apartments filled with various fluids. Above this, they arranged a metallic rod, supporting a number of plates of different kinds of metal; and, under the rude and temporary table on which the large mysterious bundle lay, were buckets of water, towels, cloth, and a great number of demijohns, the contents of which we cannot pretend to specify. 
               While the two refined-looking gentlemen proceeded, in a systematic manner, to arrange the apparatus to their satisfaction, raising a wire here, depressing one there, and moving and removing the various bottles and vases, talking, at the same time, as if nothing more than ordinary was going forward, the hardy-looking sailors and fishermen, who filled the cave, looked as if they would willingly have been anywhere else than where they were. 
               At length, all seemed satisfactory to the two principal performers; and one of them, turning to an old weather-beaten man, who appeared to hold some authority amongst his comrades, said, curtly: "All is ready now, gentlemen; I hope and trust our experiment may be satisfactory. I have felt the bodies, and a good deal of animal heat is perceptible; that augurs favorably for us. There are no bones broken-none of the vertebr displaced. It is a case of pure strangulation, gentlemen-that's all-and I hope for the best results. Now, if you please, we will remove the cloths." 
               So saying, and assisted by his friend, he unrolled the linen around the mysterious bundle, arid displayed to view in that dark cabin, but feebly illumined by the lurid glare of half a dozen lanterns, stretched upon the table, stiff, in apparent death, the forms of old Benson, the smuggler, and his son Henry, who had been hanged that morning in the court yard of the county jail, and whose mock funeral had subsequently taken place. 
               "We will now proceed with our experiment, gentlemen," said one of the refined-looking gentlemen, who were surgeons, engaged by the smugglers and fishermen, at a great cost-"and I hope we shall be successful." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               THE RESCUE FROM THE GRAVE-A SOLEMN VOW. 
               ONE of the surgeons now drew a wire from the apparatus, and placed it in contact with the body of the younger man. At the same moment, the other gentleman, his assistant, placed a corresponding wire to the nape of the neck of the older man, and the galvanic battery was put in motion. 
               The visages of the assembled fishermen and smugglers assumed an ashy paleness, to which the blueish light contributed from the lamps in the illy lit cabin, added a horrible tint. They huddled closer together, and some of the more nervous tightly grasped the hands of those nearest to them; they could have faced the most furious tempest with perfect calmness and courage; they could have met death boldly and defyingly, in any one of its many dreadful forms; they could preserve the utmost presence of mind amidst the roar of the most desperate conflict; but thus to watch and wait in this gloomy cavern, at the dead hour of midnight, the result of an experiment, which all had a vague, but none, excepting the calm and collected men of science, a definite idea of, aroused all the superstition of man's nature, more prevalent, perhaps, amongst seamen and fishermen than among any other class of men. 
               They awaited, in silence, something dreadful; they fancied, probably, some of them, that the magic wires of the experimentalists would immediately resuscitate the pallid, livid corpses which lay before them; and so intense was the silence, the fall of a pin might have been heard on the chalky pavement of that dark cave. The hollow, mournful dirge sung by the waves, as they broke upon the rocks beneath, seemed, instead of breaking the charm of the silence, to render it more perceptible; as the lullaby of the mother but stills the nursery chamber into a more subdued silence, and soothes the slumber of the babe on her knee. 
               But, although the batteries were charged to their utmost power, no perceptible effect was produced; the surgeons stood each with a hand pressed upon the breast and another holding the pulses of the lifeless bodies. At length, they looked at each other, shook their heads, and removed their hands from contact with the corpses. 
               "We must resort to an incision," said the elder of the two, in a voice scarcely above a whisper; "there is still so much warmth in the chest that I cannot believe that the life has irrecoverably departed;" and to the horror of the dismayed lookers-on, the surgeons took each a knife, and with as much coolness as though they were carving at a lifeless block, made at the same moment a slight incision in the back of the neck of each body, immediately beneath the base of the skull, and inserted the wires into the wound. 
               Meanwhile two or three of the lookers-on, unable any longer to endure the awful spectacle, had quitted the cave and stood, actually trembling, at its entrance, drawing in the cold, fresh air from the ocean, as though they were choking from its want. 
               The batteries were charged afresh and the effect was electrical; a series of spasms agitated both bodies; the muscles distorted and contracted like those of men engaged in intense physical exertion; the fingers straightened, and then closed tightly and opened again; the eyelids, which had been closed, uplifted, and the staring glassy orbs beneath rolled from side to side like those of men in a violent fit of convulsions, and the tongue of the elder man protruded out and was severely bitten by a sudden spasmodic contraction of the nether jaw. 
               Still as stocks and stones, the smugglers gazed, like men fascinated, upon the awe-inspiring scene; the tremor of their frames, the ghastly horror portrayed in their countenances, told now fearfully they were agitated; yet they seemed not to have the power to turn away from the shocking sight. Not a word was spoken, but each grasped more tightly the hand of the other, as if to find support, in this dreadful ordeal of their sensibilities, in their mutual association. Still unmoved, the surgeons prosecuted their task-a pallor overspread the features of the younger of the two, as he witnessed the frightful contortions of the senseless bodies-but, this apart, he was as cool and collected as his more experienced companion. 
               "So far, well;" said one of the surgeons-"we will rest two minutes"-coolly taking his watch from his fob, and laying it on the table, "and at the expiration of that period, we will charge the batteries afresh and re-apply the wires. 
               Meanwhile, leaving their position by the side of the table, they proceeded to re-adjust the apparatus-the fishermen and smugglers standing motionless, and gazing at them with fixed eyes as before. 
               The two minutes had elapsed, and again the wires were applied to the incised wounds, and again the batteries were charged to their fullest power. The effect was fearful. As the subtle current poured into the bodies, the features of each began to work convulsively, and the teeth audibly chattered, while the brow and breast of the younger man was thickly covered with a profuse perspiration, which stood in bead-like drops, and there was a light in his eyes which made him appear as if he possessed consciousness, and was aware of the dreadful position in which he was placed. Presently the knees were drawn up, and the joints of the elbows moved, contracting and extending the forearm, and to the horror of the lookers-on, the body began slowly to rise from its recumbent posture, while the head turned this way and that, the hair standing on end, like that of a man suffering under the effects of a deadly fear. 
               A cry of horror burst from the group of fishermen, and it was responded to by something like a groan-low and prolonged, and coming deep from the chest of the subject. 
                
               Others now rushed, unable longer to endure the sight, to join their comrades outside; not more than half a dozen had still the courage to remain. 
               "Don't be alarmed my men," said the elder of the operators, though even his countenance exhibited a little pallor. "All is well with the young man; but I fear we have done our best with the other-he shows no further symptoms of life, though our batteries have been charged to the utmost. Now, one or two of you bring hot water and bricks, and flannel; and fetch here the brandy bottle. I hope you will have your young comrade, stout and hearty, among you again before many days." 
               Partially re-assured, some of the boldest of the smugglers busied themselves in obeying the orders of the medical man. Blankets were brought and wrapped round the naked body; hot bricks were placed to the soles of his feet; his brow was laved with cold water, and, the lips being forced apart, a small portion of brandy was poured down the throat, and the head was gently laid upon a soft pillow, rudely formed of a pile of blankets, raising the body nearly to a sitting position-and thus it was left to a temporary repose. 
               The same operations were gone through with regard to the elder man; but the perspiration which had covered his breast and brow dried away, the limbs relaxed and then stiffened, and the features assumed a perfect rigidity. One of the surgeons again felt his pulse, and, shaking his head, relaxed his hold. 
               Turning to the assembled group of seamen-for all had now returned, and were gazing in stupified astonishment at the awful scene-he said: 
               "The rope has done its work with your poor old comrade, my lads; all that remains now is to bury him decently-but attend to the youth. Let him sleep for an hour, then give him a little more brandy-not too much-and in the morning, early, before people get about, I will call and see him again." 
               Thus assured, the affrighted seamen took heart. The perfectly dead body of their older comrade was decently covered with blankets, and sewed up in tarpauling by some, while others kept watch over the half-resuscitated sleeping form of young Henry Benson-the surgeons, before they left, binding up the wound they had made in the neck. 
               Early in the morning the surgeons called again. The smugglers had well performed their part; rough and rude as they were, they had proved tender and careful nurses. The young man had awakened-half conscious-as if from a troubled slumber, which had been disturbed by frightful dreams. Brandy had been sparingly administered to him, and he was now slumbering quietly, a gentle perspiration oozing from every pore of his skin. The body of his father lay beside him, rudely yet decently prepared for interment. 
               The day has passed away. Again at midnight, down on the beach, beneath the cave in the cliff in which the awful scene of the previous night was enacted, is assembled a group of seamen, in the midst of whom, upon a stretcher, lies a corpse wrapped in a sailor's shroud. The night is dark and slightly stormy-no moon, and scarcely a solitary star, is to be seen: but a lurid light is shed over the group from a couple of torches borne in the hands of two of the party. The sea-birds, aroused from their slumbers by the unwonted glare, have quitted their nests in the clefts of the cliff, and are whirling their flight above and around, screaming dissonantly, as though alarmed, and wondering what this midnight invasion of their solitude can mean; and the hoarse murmur of the surf and the solemn moaning of the wind render the tribute of a wild and fitting dirge to the memory of the bold smuggler, Henry Benson, for it is his corpse that his comrades have brought hither, at this solemn hour of midnight, for interment, in a grave close to the element on which his life had mainly been passed. No prayers are said, but as the body is lowered into the sandy pit, each rough mariner uncovers his head, and remains uncovered while the sand and pebbles are thrown back into the grave; and when it is again filled up, and a small mound built over the spot, and the mournful ceremony is over, each man slowly and pensively retires to his own home, and the last remains of the smmggler are left to their dreary solitude. 
                      
                        "Near his grave the winds whistle, the waves loudly bellow, 
                        Yon ash, struck with lightning, points out the cold grave, 
                        Where the once "far famed smuggler," that bold lawless fellow, 
                        Once feared, now forgot, sleeps in peace with the brave." 
                     
                  
                
               While this sad ceremony is performing on the lonely sea beach, another group of men and women, all bearing the impress of hardship and exposure, is assembled in a small cottage in the suburbs of Maidstone; and amidst the group, reposing upon a humble couch, lies young Henry Benson. He is apparently completely recovered, though still suffering from weakness, and from the pain of the incision that had been made in his neck; and warm congratulations are being poured into his ear by his friends. The young man scarcely as yet has recovered his tone of mind, or can understand the position in which his singular resuscitation from the grave has placed him; but by degrees he learns and begins to comprehend the fearful nature of the ordeal he has undergone. 
               "And my poor father is dead, then-murdered by these myrmidons of the law," he says savagely, grinding his teeth together in impotent fury, for he strives to stand, but falls back again, helplessly, upon the couch. 
               "Yes, lad, dead!" says a hardy seaman near him, taking him by the hand; "but thou livest to have thy revenge." 
               "And I will have it," is the reply of the youth, while a fearful but suppressed oath gives effect to his words; "but leave me now; leave me; I wish to sleep; yet stay-my father is buried. 
               "Yes-to night." 
               "Where?" 
               "Beneath the cliff; where the cave is that you know well." 
               "That will do. Hobson-leave me now-let me sleep." 
                
               The assembled party retired, and the youth was left alone to his slumbers. A few days passed away, and, aided by his youth and good constitution, Henry Benson recovered his usual robust health. 
               Exactly one week from the date of the dismal midnight funeral, by the sea side, at the same hour, a solitary figure knelt over the mound above the smuggler's grave. 
               His right hand is raised on high, and his lips mutter slowly and reverently some fearful vow. It is Henry Benson, who is kneeling and swearing a solemn oath above the grave of his father. 
               What was the nature of his vow; what the fearful character of the oath, taken under those strange circumstances, at that solemn hour, in that dreary spot, the future pages of our story will reveal. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               ON BOARD THE SOUTH SEA WHALER. 
               WE left Charles Allen, some chapters back, having just engaged on board the ship "Good Intent," bound on a whaling voyage to the South Seas. It may be well supposed that a youth, educated as young Allen had been, and used, from his earliest childhood's recollections upwards, to the comforts, if not to the luxuries of life, and accustomed to the society of people of education and refinement, would find himself out of place amongst the rough, uncouth beings, who comprise the heteregeneous crew of a South Sea whaler, and all the more so, because, notwithstanding his home had been upon an island, much frequented by seamen, and the male inhabitants of which are four-fifths of them more or less engaged in nautical employments, he knew nothing more of a seafaring life, than what he had gleaned from the conversation of sailors, or seen during occasional visits on board the various vessels that visited the port. 
               As the land receded from his sight, until at length all around, as far as the eye could reach, there appeared but one wide expanse of dark blue water, uniting in the distant horizon with the lighter blue canopy of heaven, he felt a sensation of loneliness creeping upon him, such as he had never before experienced; but during the day, so great was the bustle and confusion consequent upon getting the various lumber (always coming on board at the last moment, no matter how long the ship had been in port, and strewing around the decks in every direction) safely stowed away in its appropriate place, he had little time for thought, and it was not until the decks were cleared, and the watches arranged and set, that, finding himself alone amongst that motley crew, more solitary than he would have felt in a desert,-for the feeling of solitude never comes home to the mind so closely, as when we find ourselves unknown and unheeded in a great crowd, whether in a city or on board a ship, or wherever there is gathered a large congregation of persons; it was not until then, as he leant over the bulwarks, and watched the phosphorescent water gliding rapidly past the vessel's side, and the bright stars reflected cold and clear in the dark water, that thick coming fancies crossed his, of home and friends left behind him, for a long time-perhaps forever. 
               Naturally, his first thoughts were of Laura, whom he pictured still at Harpoon Lodge, tormented by her obstinate old guardian and his favorite but uncouth friend, Henry Benson; for he, of course, was not aware of the rash step she had taken in quitting her home, or if he had known that she, too, had come to New York, he might not then have been on board the "Good Intent," bound on a long and arduous voyage. His first thoughts of Laura, were those of sorrow and regret. He half wished he had never met her; or, having met, wondered how he could have resolved upon voluntarily absenting himself so long from her, exposed, as he knew she was, to the continuous persecutions of her guardian to wed one who was hateful to her. He pondered over all he had seen and heard and read of woman's constancy and woman's weakness, and wondered whether it were likely that Laura would continue true to him, and he absent so long from her, gone she knew not whither. He reflected that only once they had talked of love, and he regretted that he had not told the secret of his heart before, and then he reflected that she must have known by intuition his affection for her, even as he fancied he had divined hers for him. Then a strong and buoyant trust in her constancy, came to the relief of his doubts and fears, and he mentally resolved to make himself worthy of her. This resolve caused his thoughts to take another direction; and rapidly across the tablets of his memory flew all the reminiscences of his childhood and early youth; the mystery that hung about his birth, and the strange pertinacity of Mr. Baxter, in wishing him to marry his daughter; the faint recollection of the seaman, old Allen; and a hundred other things, crowded upon his mind, and created a confusion of ideas, that only became more confused the more he endeavored to disentangle them. Then above all, rose busy hope in the future, big with opening manhood's ambitious aspirations, and his thoughts were kindled anew with swifter and brighter hopes of that future than he had hitherto dreamed of. His spring of life was only just dawning, and as he felt its genial glow animating his breast, he looked forward cheerfully into the bright summer of life, and far beyond that, into the golden autumn, when the living green had turned to sober brown, and age had grafted itself upon him; but in his bright fancy, it was age with all the happiness that a well spent youth and manhood brings; age, not weary, decrepit and hoary with woe, but hale, hearty, old age, that in peace, and comfort, and plenty, lives its green youth over again, and feels the memory of the past revivified, as it watches and shares the enjoyments and listens with a pleased ear to the hopeful aspirations of the young. Half lulled to sleep with the gentle motion of the vessel, as her keel swiftly and smoothly and softly clove the liquid deep, the future appeared to pass before him as a living panorama, tinted solely with bright colors, and showing nothing but pleasing views. He saw no spring blights, no summer storms, no autumn frosts; life appeared one summer's day, through the morning of which he was passing; yet before him, was the bright moon and the soft, fair evening; and then, the night-typical of the quiet rest of the grave; but this was far distant, and the thought of it brought no terrors in its train. He never dreamed, as he looked down into the depths of the calm sea, over which he was passing, that even as that smooth surface, so gentle and placid, now could in one short hour, be roused from its slumber by the tempest passing over it, and mountain waves swell and roll where now was but the gentle ripple, so life has its storms and its dark hours, as well as its sunshine and its calms, and the changes are often as sudden and as unexpected. 
               He was aroused from his reverie by the sound of a hand-spike struck heavily upon the deck several times, and by the voice of the boatswain's mate shouting loudly: 
               "Eight bells-twelve o'clock-call the watch-Starboard watch, ahoy!" 
               He started, but he was sufficiently conversant with marine affairs to know what this meant, and that the ward of the watch to which he had been appointed had expired. Still he was so absorbed in his fancies, that he would have relapsed again into his waking dreams, had not one of the boat-steerers of the other watch tapped him gently on the shoulders, and exclaimed: 
               "Hillo! young fellow. What, dreaming there, eh? Go below with ye, lad. It's plain you're a 'greenhorn,' or you wouldn't waste the precious hours of your 'watch below,' in this fashion. Why, the watch has been relieved near a quarter of an hour, and I warrant every man Jack of your watch is fast asleep and snoring by this time. Mind ye, lad, you'll be roused out again at four o'clock, and you'll have to show yourself on deck, then, a little quicker than you now seem inclined to go to your hammock." 
               Thus admonished, Charles descended from the deck and groped his way to his hammock, and, thanks to youth and health, and the unwonted fatigue he had undergone during the day, was soon sound asleep-too sound asleep to dream, even of home and absent friends, or of love. 
               The next day, the weather still continuing fine, each man and boy of the crew, who had not been shipped to fill some special office, was appointed to his particular duty, and Charles Allen, as one of the green hands, was placed under the care and command of one of the boat-steerers, whose duty it was to teach him, and two or three others equally as ignorant, the duties they would have to perform when the boat to which they belonged was lowered in pursuit of the finny spoil. 
               With Captain Peters, and with his first officer, Silas Thorne, the reader is already acquainted; the name of the second mate was Lyman, and that of the third, Watson; the boat-steerer, in whose charge young Allen was placed, was called Jack Bobstay, though no one believed that to be his real name; Jack, however, who was something of a character, always swore that he had no other, and that this was given to him in his baptism. There were several other officers, consisting of the surgeon, Mr. Spindle, and his assistant, and boat-steerers, carpenters, coopers, &c., &c., whom it is not needful particularly to specify, save and except at such times as they may be brought more vividly before the reader during the progress of our story. 
               The crew consisted of a motley assemblage of almost every nation upon earth, and of every shade of complexion, from the fair Saxon and florid Dane to the blackest of Africa's sable sons. Of these, about one-third were tolerably efficient seamen, though not more than half that number were first class A. B.'s. One half the entire crew perhaps had been to sea before, chiefly in whale ships, for your whaleman is like your man-of-wars-man, once thoroughly engrafted into this particular branch of sea life, he adheres to it with the utmost tenacity, and rarely quits the deck of the man-of-war, or the whaleship, for that of the ordinary merchantman; the remaining half had never been to sea on a long voyage, though the majority had been coasters or fishermen, and the rest were, like Allen, green hands, who had now for the first time, tasted the flavor of salt water, and composed in their number individuals of almost every trade and occupation, from the broken down vagabond gentleman about town, to the mechanic of various crafts, and even the overgrown newsboy. A strange set were they to mould and fashion into sailors, nevertheless by patience and perseverance and some persuasion and much swearing, the dullest amongst them was made to be of some utility, and those who gave their minds to their business soon became, if not very good, at least passable seamen. 
               Allen wisely resolved to learn his duties as quickly as posible, and by his aptitude and good temper soon worked himself into the good graces of Jack Bobstay, and through him into those of the captain and the superior officers. His educational knowledge also went a long way towards bringing about this important result, for although there is no one Jack has a more inveterate dislike to than a sea-lawyer, there is no class of men more ready than the sailor, to acknowledge educational superiority, when the possessor of it does not plume himself too much upon its possession. 
               It is not our purpose to go over the ground so often trodden by novelists, devoting pages to the details of the ordinary routine of ship duties. We shall, therefore, pass rapidly over the voyage, until the "Good Intent" has reached the renowned and boisterous Cape Horn, merely observing that by this time every one had become pretty well trained to his duties, and learnt by practice as well as theory that he had signed himself over, body and soul, as the captain was accustomed to tell the crew, so often that they could not well forget it, "to do duty by day or by night, or all day and all night, if the exigencies of the service required it." 
               Off the Cape the "Good Intent" met with the usual gales which must be encountered ere the mariner is wafted from the Atlantic into the Pacific ocean; but at length this was reached, and steering directly northward, the crew soon began to feel the change of temperature; pea-jackets were gradually thrown aside, and the heavy gales of the South Pacific gave place to the gentle breezes and fine weather experienced within the tropics, on this immense expanse of water-which gave to it its inviting appellation. 
               And now the several functionaries were busy all day long in getting ready for the pursuit of the object of the voyage. The harpooners superintended the polishing of the harpoons and spears until they shone as bright as burnished silver; the boat-steerers saw that their boats were put in apple-pie order, every line coiled properly down, every oar in its proper place; the coopers looked over the "shakings," and tested the tightness and durability of the barrels in the hold; every one had his hands full, and all were cheerfully as well as profitably occupied. And soon they were upon whaling ground, and then a bright look-out was kept from the mast-head for whales. All were eager for the ocean chase, and none more so than the green hands, for the duties of the ship, day by day the same, soon began to grow irksome and monotonous, and all knew that upon their luck in discovering "schools," and securing a fair proportion of the leviathans of the deep, depended not alone the success, but the duration of the voyage. 
               At length the welcome sound was heard. 
               Allen had just come on deck one bright morning, when he heard the shout from the main-top-mast head: 
               "Ah! blows-b-l o w-s!" 
               And soon the shout was repeated from the fore-top-mast 
               "Blows-b-l-o-w-s!" 
               The captain had not yet turned out, and the mate, whose watch on deck it was, had gone down into the cabin to make some report to his superior; but in a moment he was upon deck. 
               "Whereaway?" he shouted; and before the words had escaped his lips, the skipper himself in his shirt, with his trousers hanging over his arm, and his scant linen flapping ridiculously in the breeze, repeated the cry- 
               "Whereaway?" 
               "Dead abeam to leeward," answered both men at once. 
               "Can you make out what it is?" 
               "Ay, ay, sir, well enough-real sperm whale-and a large 'school' on'em at that." 
                
               "How far off?" 
               "About two miles, and heading to windward." 
               "Keep a bright look-out, and don't lose sight of them," was the reply. 
               And soon all was hurry and bustle, and, to the eye of a lands-man, complete confusion. 
               "Turn up the hands, Mr. Thorne; square the yards; we'll bear down and meet the beauties. There-so-steady as you go," said the skipper. "How are they now, my man?" address the look-out aloft. 
               "Right ahead now, sir," was the reply, "and coming up fast." 
               By this time, the "watch below" had come upon deck, half clad, rubbing their eyes, and half asleep; but quickly ascertaining the cause of the summons, which had roused them from their hammocks before they had enjoyed half an hour's repose, they united heart and soul in the general excitement. 
               "See to your boats, boat-steerers," said Mr. Thorne; but the order was needless, for already the men were in the boats, the tackles were cleared, the coils of line looked to, the edges of the harpoons and lances tested, and every man was on the alert for the order, "lower away." 
               The captain called for his spy-glass, and placed it to his eye. In a moment he lowered it- 
               "By Jove! I can see 'em-plain as a pike staff-a right glorious 'school,' Mr. Thorne. Take the glass." 
               "There ain't no 'casion, sir," responded the mate. "I can see 'em a blowing with my naked eye." 
               "There she blows!" now shouted the crew in chorus from the forecastle, as they watched the dark jets thrown high into the air, and now distinctly visible as the daylight began brightly to dawn. 
               "Heave the mainyard aback," shouted the captain. "We won't go any nearer the critters, lest they should grow skeary." 
                
               And this order having been performed, the vessel became stationary upon the water. 
               "Prepare to lower your boats," was now the order: and every man belonging to the several boats' crews flew to their places. 
               "Stand by, lads!-lower away to larboard-lower to starboard-every boat. Slack away, roundly. Well done-let go!" 
               Each boat is now in the water. A man at the bow and one at the stern of each dexterously unhooks the tackle as the boats rise on the swell, the crews slide down by the pendant tackles, each man seizes his oar, the boat-steerers plant themselves, steering-oar in hand, at the stern, and away they go, each striving to be foremost in the chase, while the captain and a few of the crew necessarily left on board, watch the chase with steady, anxious, delighted gaze. Oh! 'tis glorious-exciting beyond measure, this chase of the finny monsters of the deep. What, compared to it, are the tame sports of the land, even the most exciting and perilous of them-even the chase of the savage monarchs of the forests and jungles of the East! Nothing! nothing!-to attempt comparison were futile. 
               Soon the keen-eyed, quick-witted monsters espied the boats, and, suddenly checking their headlong speed, scattered widely, and, springing one by one half out of the water, plunged and disappeared. 
               "Gone flukes!" was the cry, and expressions of disappointment, mingled with coarse epithets and oaths, were heard from the younger and less experienced hands; but the old whalemen knew better. 
               "Hush! hold your slack jaw; do you want to frighten the critters away altogether," muttered Jack Bobstay, in a low yet distinct tone of voice, that could be heard by all-"Hold water, and keep still as death-they'll be up to breathe agin soon." 
               Jack was right-not many minutes elapsed before, one by one, the dark backs of half a dozen of the monsters were seen emerging from the water, but distant now nearly a mile from the boats. 
               "Pull away agin, lads, softly but smartly, so as not to scare 'em. That's it-there she flies-well done boys-stick to your oars-long pulls and strong pulls, and pull together." "Bravo! that's my hearties," was now uttered in low tones of exultation, by the delighted boat-steerers, as the men leant to their oars, and almost lifted the boats from the surface of the water, as they flew along like lightning. 
               The huge fish, which had so readily taken alarm, on first getting sight of the boats, now seemed to have cast fear to the winds, and again they commenced to blow and sport in the water, allowing the boats gradually to approach closer to them; and soon the foremost boats were near enough to justify the casting of the harpoons. 
               A shout of joy rent the air from the crews of the boats, which was responded to from the ship, as the waters were lashed furiously and the spray fell in showers over the seamen, almost blinding them for the moment, for two of the whales were "fast." The rest had become frightened, disappeared, and were seen no more; but two whales was a rare prize, and now the excitement and anxiety became intense lest they should get loose. Swift as lightning, the boats which were attached to the monsters were borne along the surface of the water-the lines being rapidly paid out, as they flew along-and as rapidly as they could the other boats followed the chase, each man of the crew anxious as the keenest sportsman, to be "in at the death." At length, down deep into the ocean plunged the wearied and exhausted fish, vainly hoping by this means to get clear from their pursuers; but they could not remain below long, and as again they appeared above water to breathe their cruel, relentless foes buried their lances deep into their sides; blood and oil spouted in dark streams from the gaping wounds, and tinged the ocean for a furlong around, a dull red. Soon the prey grew feeble, and no longer strove to escape, yet still quicker and quicker were dealt the deadly blows. A jet of mingled blood and water was cast high in the air, first from one and then the other of the victims to man's daring and rapacity; then followed a succession of heavy plunges, a gasping and sighing as of giants in mortal agony, and the huge monsters rolled over, showing their white bellies instead of their dark backs, and floated dead upon the surface of the ocean. 
               Another shout of exultation from the boats and the ship rent the air; the loose boats now fixed on to the fish, and assisted in towing them to the ship, and then the less exciting but necessary duty of "fleshing" and "trying" commenced. It was a tedious job, and not the day alone, but the night was far expended before the disagreeable task was done, nor while it lasted did one man think of rest. 
               At length all was completed-the first produce of the voyage was stowed into the barrels, and the success in this first chase was considered to be a good omen of a successful voyage. 
               Many weeks, however, elapsed before they again saw any fish. Meanwhile they had crossed the Equator, and had sailed into the vicinity of the group of Mattao Islands, which had been visited by Captain Peters and his mate some years before, and where the curiosity of both had been so greatly excited. The supply of fresh provisions was getting short, and the skipper, urged by the mate-who was constantly harping upon the fair vision of the ghost or fairy he swore he had seen there-determined to call at the islands, renew his acquaintance with the natives, and replenish his stores. 
               To Charles Allen, this was pleasant news. He had long wished to visit the shore of some of the beautiful islands which stud the bosom of the Pacific ocean, glimpses of which he had seen, from time to time, during the progress of the voyage; besides the reader is already aware that he had got the strange fancy into his head, that on some of those islands Allen, the old sailor, whose name he bore-was still living. 
               It was with a sensation, therefore, of intense delight, he saw the vessel's course directed towards Mattao. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               A GOVERNESS WANTED. 
               WE left Laura Denman and her newly found friend and companion in misfortune, in the abode of the latter, just as Louisa Mildmay had concluded her sorrowful story. 
               For some weeks, the two young women continued at their poorly paid labor; at last Laura, who had scarcely ventured abroad, made up her mind to try what success she could meet with in endeavoring to make her acquirements and accomplishments useful, and if possible relieve herself from the drudgery which she had endured since she had been in the city. She had felt great distress on account of Charles Allen, who she thought might at least have made some inquiry about her-forgetting that in her seclusion, he might have done so, without being able to find her. 
               She watched carefully the advertisements in the morning papers-for one that she thought she could with propriety make application for-and at length saw an advertisement in the Herald stating that a lady in B-- street was in want of a nursery governess, and she resoved at least to call upon the lady, and try if she could obtain the situation. 
               With this purpose, that same morning she sallied forth, and soon found out the house, and rang the door bell. A servant soon appeared. 
               "Is Mrs. Baker at home?" she asked. 
               "Yes, Miss; please walk into the parlor," replied the servant. "What name shall I say, ma'am?" 
                
               "Denman-Laura Denman. Please say I have I have called respecting the advertisement which appeared in the Herald this morning," 
               "Oh, the advertisement what appeared in the Her'ld!" said the girl, her former respectful demeanor undergoing a sudden change, "you've come, then, to try arter the sitivation of nursery guverness, have ye? Well, I s'pose you may wait in the parlor, but there's been two young women here already." 
               "If any one has been engaged, I will not wait," answered Laura. 
               "O, you may wait," rejoined the girl; "neither on 'em suited-they were too uppish for missus. I wish you luck, if you takes the place;" and so saying, with an impudent leer on her features, she quitted the apartment, and went in search of her mistress. 
               Laura waited patiently a full half hour before any one appeared, although she had heard the girl deliver her message, and had been told, as she passed by the parlor on her return to the kitchen, that "missus would be down directly." 
               At length the lady condescended to make her appearance. She was not one calculated to make a favorable impression; being one of those tall, angular, pinched featured beings, whose aspect is sufficient to curdle one's sympathetic feelings. She was fashionably attired; too fashionably attired for a lady at that early hour, and she affected a degree of languor in her movements which her appearance falsified. 
               "So-you have called," she said "about the governess's situation?" at the same time eyeing Laura from head to foot, with an air of the most vulgar superciliousness. 
               "Yes, ma'am," replied Laura, "I saw the advertisement in the papers this morning, and called as early as possible, in hopes that I might suit the situation." 
               "Humph! I am very particular when I engage in any capacity about my house. Your name is?" 
               "Laura Denman." 
                
               "Ah! well, Miss Denman, what references have you?" 
               "No references in this city; I have come from Nantucket in the hope of finding suitable employment in New York; I have been here but a few weeks." 
               "That is bad-no references-but what are your capabilities? I am very desirous that my young family should be placed under the tuition of a competent person. I do not hesitate to say that your appearance is satisfactory-I may add, prepossessing; but I should like to hear you state the various acquirements and accomplishments you are able to teach." 
               "I should first like to know the ages of my pupils, ma'am." 
               "Oh! well, there's Sarah Ann, she's seven years old, and Mary Jane is eleven, and William Henry is six, all very precocious and interesting children, though I say it myself, as shouldn't say it, being their mother." 
               "I have received a tolerably good education, madam, and, I believe, am sufficiently capable of giving instruction in all the rudiments of a plain education, as well as in music, drawing, and French." 
               "Hem! Of course I should wish my family to be instructed in all these branches; the dear children are so precocious, that they are far in advance of most children of their years." 
               "If you should make arrangements with me, madam, they shall be faithfully taught all that I am capable of teaching." 
               "Very well said, young woman. Your appearance, as I have said, is a favorable letter of introduction. Now, what salary would you require?" 
               Laura did not know what to reply to this. She was ignorant of the customary remuneration bestowed upon teachers and governesses. 
               "What is usually given in such engagements, would, for the present, satisfy me, madam," she replied, at length. 
               "Well, I will be liberal. Suppose, now, you come two hours every morning and the same time in the afternoon, and I would not mind paying you four dollars a week, and giving you your dinner occasionally What do you say to that offer?" 
               Poor Laura! She had calculated upon ten dollars a week, at least; but she thought, "the children are young, and therefore, of course, I cannot expect a large salary. Four dollars a week will be more than I can earn now, and earned with much less labor-and then I can work at home of an evening." 
               "I will accept your offer, madam," she said aloud. 
               "And when will you be ready to commence your engagement?" 
               "As soon as you please, ma'am." 
               "Then say on Monday next; this is Friday. Will you come on Monday?" 
               "Yes, madam." 
               "Then, for the present, I will wish you good morning" and she rose and showed Laura to the door. 
               The young woman hastened home, eager to relate ner morning's adventures; but just as she turned the corner of Broadway, on her way towards Greenwich street, a carriage for a moment obstructed her path, opposite the Astor House, from which a gentleman alighted, and passed into the hotel. 
               Quick as thought, Laura drew down her veil, and hurried home. She was out of breath, when she reached the room occupied by Louisa. 
               "Well, what success, Miss Denman?" asked Louisa, cheerfully. "You seem out of breath," she added, placing a seat for Laura. 
               "I will tell you by and by," answered Laura. "I am out of breath. I have run every step of the way from Broadway. My guardian, Captain Martingale, is in New York: just now I saw him alight from a carriage at the Astor House." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               THE CHILDREN OF THE BAKER FAMILY. 
               "WILL you listen to advice from me, Miss Denman?" said Louisa, after she had heard Laura's reply. 
               "Yes," answered Laura, still out of breath and agitated, as she sat herself down, and in a nervous manner commenced to untie her bonnet strings-of course drawing them into tighter knots. 
               "Then make yourself known to your guardian. Either write to him, or call upon him at the hotel. Tell plainly the cause of your having left home, and that if he will promise to free you from such persecutions in future, you will return with him; for I presume it is on your account that he has visited New York." 
               "Why do you advise me to this?" asked Laura, quickly; "are you desirous that I should leave you?" 
               "How can you ask me such a question? So far from that, since you have shared my poor lodging with me, I have experienced the only comfort I have known since my misfortunes placed me in this humble position." 
               "Then why advise me to such a course?" 
               "For your own sake, Miss Denman. You are less fitted than I to struggle with the world; you have not yet experienced all the bitterness, the degradation, the self-abasement that poverty brings in its train; and your present position is self-sought. It is otherwise with me: I cannot fly from it, but must strive against it, as best I may. You can-and excuse me for saying so-but it were better that you do so." 
               "I am resolved," answered Laura, "not to humble myself to my guardian. I know it would be of no avail. He possesses some extraordinary control over the little property I possess, and though I do not believe, if I acted according to his wishes, that he would wrong me of a penny, I know his disposition too well, to imagine that anything I could urge, would lead him to change his mind. If I were to make myself known to him, he would assuredly take such measures as the law would allow forcibly to regain possession of me. I cannot follow your advice, Louisa." 
               While Laura had been speaking, she had recovered from the excitement which the rencontre with Captain Martingale, and her subsequent hurry home had caused, and having laid aside her bonnet and shawl, she took up a parcel of needlework which lay on the table, and prepared to commence her daily task. 
               "How have you succeeded with regard to your morning visit?" asked Louisa, after a pause. 
               "I am going to B-- street on Monday; I have accepted the situation of nursery governess," was the reply. 
               "You have been fortunate, then," said Louisa, sadly. "I am glad of it for your sake; but you will reside in the house, I suppose. I shall lose your companionship." 
               "No; I am to be employed four hours a day at Mrs. Baker's, and my salary is to be four dollars a week. I shall have plenty of time to assist you at home, and an addition of four dollars to our income will help us materially. If you could only obtain some similar employment, we should be quite comfortable together, Louisa; at least, until I hear from-" 
               Charles Allen, Laura would probably have said, had she not checked herself suddenly. But Louisa had not noticed the sudden check, and she asked what was the nature of the duties Laura was required to perform, and what the number and several eral ages of the children she was expected to instruct. "There are three," said Laura, "two girls and a boy-aged eleven, seven and six. I am to instruct them in English, and the rudiments of French, music, and drawing." 
               "A sufficient task for four dollars a week," said Louisa, smiling. "Have you seen the children?" 
               "No." 
               "And the mother-what sort of a woman is she?" 
               "To tell the truth," replied Laura, "there is nothing very interesting in her appearance; but, although a vulgar, she seems a tolerably kind-hearted woman." 
               Laura then related the particulars of the interview she had had with Mrs. Baker; and Louisa, when she had told all, made no reply. It is probable that she was far from being sanguine as to the comfort Laura would experience in her new employment, for she knew from experience that often the bread hardly earned by the toil of the needle was preferable to that grudgingly bestowed upon their dependents by vulgar and supercilious employers, in such situations as that Laura was about to enter upon. But she did not wish to camp her expectations. The conversation, therefore, took another turn, and the late hours of the night, as usual, witnessed the two young women still busy at their wearisome labor. 
               On the Monday following, according to appointment, Laura set out, after breakfast, for B-- street, in order to commence her educational duties. 
               It was not without feelings of considerable trepidation, that she passed along the streets, carefully avoiding the vicinity of the Astor House, dreading every moment that she should encounter her guardian, although, had he met her face to face, her attire was so changed from that she had been accustomed to wear, and her face so completely hidden by her veil, that he certainly could not have recognised her. 
               She reached B-- street at all events, without meeting with any interruption, and, ringing the bell, the door was opened by the same servant-girl she had seen before. 
               "Oh! so you've comed. Missus has hired ye, has she?" was her salutation, as Laura stepped into the hall. "Well, wipe your feet, and go into the parlor. You can sit down, if you like, while I go and tell missus." 
               Laura did as she was requested; and, after having waited for some minutes, the rustling of a silk dress announced the approach of the mistress of the house. 
               "Good morning, young woman," she said, as she entered; "so you've come-punctual to your time, too,"-looking at her gold watch, which was conspicuously attached to her waist. "I like to see that. I make it a point to be punctual myself, and I expect every one in my employ to be so." 
               (She forgot that she, in her punctuality, had kept Laura waiting in the parlor.) 
               "I suppose," she continued, "you are naturally anxious to see the dear children. Come up stairs to the nursery, and I will introduce you to them." 
               Laura followed the lady out of the parlor, and up two pairs of stairs, to the apartment designated as the nursery, where she was severally introduced to Sarah Ann, Mary Jane, and William Henry. 
               Laura was fond of children; that is to say, fond of children, after the manner of most people; she liked them when they were lovable in themselves, neat, pretty, and well-behaved. To be sure, there are some crusty individuals, who do not like them in any shape: but these, generally, have never experienced themselves a childhood, as childhood ought to be known, and have no children of their own. 
               In the appearance, however, of Miss Denman's three pupils, dear, as they were precocious beings, according to their mamma, there was nothing whatever that could be called attractive. 
               They were so occupied in some childish squabble, with regard to the possession of a poor, miserable pet-kitten, that they did not observe their mother and the new governess enter the room. 
               The poor cat, whose neck was nearly dislocated by Mary Jane, while its tail bid fair to be pulled out by the roots by William Henry, was mewing piteously, and adding to the general clamor and confusion; and Sarah Ann, who had taken sides with her brother, was slyly pulling her sister's tangled hair and pinching her neck. With considerable difficulty, and many exclamations of "For shame, my dear," "I am really astonished," "Mary Jane, my love, do let the cat go;" "Go into the corner, William Henry-is that the way you treat your sister," &c., &c., Mrs. Baker at length succeeded in restoring some degree of quiet, although a torrent of complaints succeeded to the quarrel, each of the precocious children accusing the other of being the cause of the disturbance. Meanwhile, the kitten, who, if she had made use of her claws as she ought to have done, would have settled the difficulty long before, had slunk into a corner, and was engaged in smoothing her ruffled fur, looking all the time stealthily around, as though she feared another onslaught. Cats are much maligned animals; dogs are general favorites, and although no child dare treat the gentlest dispositioned puppy with the cruelty they habitually use towards cats, without the former resenting it with his teeth, the kittens, and often the full-grown cat, too, will allow itself to be dragged and torn, and half killed, without making any attack upon its tormentors; and, if by chance she does use her claws, there comes the ill-judged abuse of the unhappy brute, which is called sly, treacherous, ungrateful, and heaped with vile and obnoxious epithets. This is digression; but if it should cause any to judge of the much-abused cat with more consideration, it is a digression from the story which will not be without its use. 
               At last the difficulties were arranged, and quiet restored. "Order reigned in Warsaw." 
               "My dear children," said Mrs. Baker, "this is to be your new governess. I hope you and she will be good friends. Now, Sarah Ann, come here, and shake Miss-Miss-dear me! Miss What-do-you-call-'em-by the hand. Excuse me!" turning to Laura, "but I am so awkward in remembering names." 
               "Laura Denman," said the governess. 
               "Ah! yes, how stupid of me. Come, Sarah Ann, and shake hands with Miss Denham." 
               "Denham ain't her name, ma; how silly you are; she just said it was Denman," said Mary Jane. 
               Mrs. Baker looked frowningly upon the child. 
               "Mary Jane," she said, "that is a very improper style for you to use in addressing me." "But," turning to Laura, "You see, Miss Derby, my children are so precocious that they have the manners of old people." 
               Laura thought the manners of "old people," in New York, must be very rude and disagreeable, if this was a precocious specimen of them; but she made no remark, and Sarah Ann, after much reiterated persuasion on the part of her mother, took Laura's hand. 
               "Say, how d'ye do, Miss Denton," said Mrs. Baker, "and tell the young woman that you are glad that she has come to be your new governess." 
               "I shan't! I don't like to," was the reply of the girl. 
               "Oh! Sarah Ann," exclaimed the mother, "I am ashamed of you; but she does'nt mean anything by it, Miss Denham-it's a way she's got. Sarah Ann is quite an original child-we have a great deal to do to curb her genius. Come, Mary Jane, you will behave better. Come, you, and shake hands with Miss Denby." 
               But Mary Jane seemed no way inclined to obey. She sidled into a corner, and began to coax the kitten towards her. 
               "I'm quite ashamed, really," said Mrs. Baker. "But you see, Miss What d'ye-call-'em, Mary Jane is peculiarly independent in her disposition, and neither her father nor I like to curb her, for fear of breaking her spirit. Independence is such a sterling quality in a child. Come, William Henry, my boy, show your good manners, and make friends with your governess." 
               "I will, if she'll give me a penny," said the child. 
               "That's a good boy. I'll give you a penny," said his mother. "William Henry, Miss Denham, has quite a mercantile turn of mind. He won't do anything without an equivalent. His father is quite proud of him, and we always encourage him in it." 
               The penny was given to the child of a mercantile turn of mind, and thus conciliated, the young cub sidled up to Laura and took her hand, leaving a stain upon it of the molasses candy he had been sucking. 
               Pretensions to beauty these children had none; not even the childish beauty, which is manifested in freshness of thought and feeling, demonstrating itself in the innocence and confidence which constitute childhood's greatest attraction. 
               Sarah Ann, the oldest, was a sallow-faced girl, with a profusion of red hair, a chubby face, devoid of all expression, a pair of eyes which looked as if she had a difficulty in keeping them open, a pouting pair of heavy lips, demonstrative of a sullen, disagreeable temper. 
               Mary Jane was more sprightly than her sister, but possessed of a similar set of features, the expression of which was only partially redeemed by her greater vivacity; she had a tangled head of hair, of the same fiery color as that of her sister. 
               Master William Henry was better-looking than either of his sisters; but it needed not his mother's assertion, that he had a mercantile turn of mind, to read the expression of his features-young as he was, the keen, pinched look of the greedy usurer was stamped upon his young face. 
               "Now, Miss-" 
               "Denman," interposed Laura, wearied of having her name misspoken so repeatedly. 
               "Ah! Now, Miss Denman, suppose you commence your duties. I will suggest merely, that you strive to lead, not drive the dears. They are gentle as lambs, when properly treated; but people of your-I mean to say the lower class of people, don't seem to understand the peculiar sensitiveness of such children as mine. I have had no less than six governesses for my children, Miss Demby, during the last six months. I couldn't put up with the airs they assumed, and not one of them appeared to be capable of appreciating or even understanding the peculiar temper of my children. By the way, Miss Denham, what is your opinion of precocity, as developed in childhood, in connection, I mean, with respectability of station in society, and general intelligence?" 
               Laura protested that she had not formed any opinion upon the subject. She had no conception of Mrs. Baker's meaning. 
               "Indeed?-that is extraordinary! But perhaps you have never been placed in contact with children of superior intellect; you will have an opportunity of judging after you become acquainted with my darlings." 
               Then addressing the children, she said: 
               "Now my dears, gather your books and slates together, and Miss Denby will see how far you have progressed. I shall leave you now, Miss Denham, and at one o'clock, you can come down and take lunch, and give me your opinion as to the children's progress." 
               Thus speaking, Mrs. Baker sailed, or rather waddled out of the room, leaving Laura with her unruly charge. 
               She had no sooner gone, than William Henry, who had snatched the kitten from his youngest sister, flung it at his governess, and a scream of rude laughter burst from all the children at once. 
               Laura felt annoyed, but she controlled her anger, and telling them that such conduct was very rude and improper, she bade them get their books and come and read to her, in order that she might see what studies were most fitted for them. With some difficulty, this task was accomplished, and the oldest girl read a few passages aloud, tolerably well, but in a drawling, disagreeable tone of voice. Mary Jane stumbled and spelled through a few sentences, and William Henry refused to read at all; but said that if Miss Denman would set him a sum in addition, he would do it right. 
               Desirous to humor the children at first, Laura complied with his request, and set him a short sum in addition; which task he accomplished with tolerable facility. Laura then tested their knowledge of English grammar, geography, and the simplest portions of history, but found them so ignorant, that her preconceptions of the precocity of their intellect, if she ever had any, were completely overthrown. She had the utmost difficulty in keeping them to their tasks for an hour, and after that period had elapsed, she was compelled to allow them to amuse themselves as best they pleased. 
               Twelve o'clock was the hour at which she should have been released from her matutinal duties; but, probably with an eye to getting the full value of her four dollars a week out of her, Mrs. Baker had asked her to stay to lunch at one o'clock, and this being the first morning of her entrance upon her novel duties, she could not well do otherwise than comply with the request. 
               At one o'clock then, the servant before spoken of, entered the apartment without knocking at the door, and announced that lunch was ready in the basement, and missus was waiting there for the guv'ness. 
               Laura descended to the basement story, and found Mrs. Baker presiding at a table, on which some bread and cold meat were laid out, and at the lady's request, she sat down and partook of the somewhat meagre entertainment with her. 
               "And what do you think of the capacity of my children, Miss-What-d'ye-call-'em?-I forget your name again?" 
               "Denman," again said Laura. 
               "Ah! Denman," said the lady, getting hold of the correct name at last. What do you think of the children, Miss Denman?" 
               Laura was sadly nonplussed: she did not wish to offend the doting mother, by saying what she really thought, neither did she wish, by so doing, to lose her situation before she had hardly commenced her duties. She already foresaw that the situation was not one to be greatly coveted; still, it was more congenial to her than the employment she had hitherto been engaged upon since she had left Nantucket, so she replied that she had scarcely as yet, had an opportunity of forming an opinion, but she thought the children had been neglected. 
               "Ah! yes, by their former governesses, Miss Denman. You speak truly. I'm sure such liberality as I have shown to the young women I have engaged at different times, has merited a different return. They none of them appeared to understand the children; my children require a good deal of understanding, Miss Denman." 
               Laura thought they did, also, but probably she viewed the matter in a different light from Mrs. Baker; and the slight meal concluded, she thought she would not return as it was so late; but would stay and give her afternoon tuition. 
               This was devoted, at the mother's request, to music, drawing and French, of all which accomplishments, now not at all to her surprise, Laura found the children completely ignorant. She, however, managed by dint of coaxing, to engage their attention in some degree; and she had the satisfaction of hearing Mrs. Baker remark, when she was about to leave, that she believed she would be satisfied with her, for she seemed a much better informed and better behaved young person than the generality of governesses. 
               When Laura returned home in the evening, she related to Louisa, while they sat busied with their sewing, all the occurrences of the day, somewhat to Louisa's amusement, and also somewhat to her expectation. She had had experience, and she foresaw that Laura would soon become disgusted with the Gervitude of private teaching; but for the present she said nothing to blight her anticipations. 
               A week passed by, and Laura had gone every day to B-- street. She had succeeded, in some degree, in obtaining the confidence of the children; but she had fully satisfied herself that they were the most ungainly, ignorant, and ill-conducted children she had ever met with. She found that, according to Mrs. Baker's ideas, the duties of a nursery governess comprised many other things besides those of tuition. She was expected to take the children out walking in fine weather, to dress them-to be answerable while they were abroad for their good behavior, and for the preservation of their fine garments, from dirt and destruction; and at the end of the week she found that there appeared to be no hurry as regarded the payment of her salary. 
               Mrs. Baker did not even allude to it; but she had heard Laura practising upon the pianoforte, and discovering that she possessed a talent for music, she coolly asked her to come on the ensuing Wednesday evening, and play for the entertainment of a party she intended to give. 
               Laura would sooner have gone home, for she knew that Louisa was behindhand with her work, since she had aided her but little of late, and since her pittance had not been paid by Mrs. Baker; she felt that she was dependent upon Louisa for her scanty support, but she did not like to refuse, for fear of offending, and she also entertained a hope that her musical talent, thus becoming known, perhaps some better prospects would be opened to her; so she consented to attend the party resolving, at all events, to ask for her pittance at the end of the second week of her engagement. 
               Meanwhile, if it really was Captain Martingale, whom Laura had seen entering the Astor House, she heard nothing of or from him. She did attend the party, but an incident occurred there which altogether changed the course she had marked out for herself to pursue. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               A VISIT TO THE ISLAND OF OOLEAH-THE TABOO. 
               CHEERILY, before a light but steady breeze from the eastward, the "Good Intent" sailed on towards the group of islands mentioned in a preceding chapter. The outermost groups were passed, and in the course of a week, after having turned the vessel's head in that direction, Captain Peters found himself approaching Mattao. The scenery, as they approached the land, was imposing to Allen, who was a stranger to the beauties of the Pacific islands, and probably more capable of appreciating those beauties, than any one else amongst the motley crew aboard the whaleship. The sun shone bright and warm upon the beach, lined almost to the water's edge with palms and cocoas, contrasting vividly with the dark forest groves in the interior, and the bare rugged rocks of which the smaller islands chiefly consisted; the sky overhead, was blue and cloudless; the sea around them, as the vessel neared the shore, was of a brilliant green, and so transparent, that far down beneath the vessel's keel, the masses of coral in every fantastic variety of shape, could be distinctly seen, while amidst it, immense quantities of fishes swam to and fro, in and out, regardless of the approach of the vessel, seemingly confident in their perfect security from danger. It required but little stretch of the imagination to fancy this ocean depth a fairy realm, peopled by mermen and maids, who live in coral palaces and roamed at will amidst coral bowers, for every variety of earthly vegetation tation seemed to be mimicked in the fantastic growth of vegetable table rock beneath. 
               Cautiously evading the dangerous currents which are often encountered unawares, if great care be not taken when rounding the promontories on these islands, the "Good Intent" was brought to an anchor beneath a rounded wall of cliff, where the water was deep, and the bottom apparently free from coral rock: and the sails having been furled, the captain ordered a boat to be lowered and prepared to go on shore. 
               By this time, however, the natives had observed the approach of the vessel, and she was soon surrounded by a host of canoes filled with men and women to their fullest capacity, many of whom, recognizing the ship as the "big canoe" that had visited their shores some years before, shouted aloud their rude welcome and eagerly scrambled on board. The ship was soon put to rights, and as the majority of the crew were not needed on board-in fact, as they had visited the islands for the purpose of a holiday recreation, permission was readily given for such of them as thought fit to avail themselves of the pantomimic invitations of the natives to go on shore with them in their canoes. Among those who gladly accepted the permission thus accorded, was Allen, who sprang into one of the fragile skiffs, with two or three of his messmates, and in a few minutes, felt again, they for the first time for many months, the delightful sensation of the springy, yielding turf beneath their feet, and inhaled the sweet scent of the oderiferous herbage. 
               The natives crowded around them, and as they had provided themselves with an abundant supply of trinkets in the shape of nails and glass beads, a brisk trade was speedily opened with the islanders for fruits and vegetables, which they brought down to the beach in large quantities, although the greedy appetites of the seamen, long unused to such luxuries, soon consumed all they were enabled to bring. 
               Meanwhile, the captain, accompanied by Silas Thorne, had sought an interview with the island king, for both were actuated by the curiosity we have heretofore alluded to, to know more of this strange people; and the latter, especially, still stoutly maintained his assertion, that he had seen on one of the smaller islands a maiden of extraordinary beauty and of lighter complexion than the ordinary island nymphs, and he resolved, if possible, to know more about her, if she were indeed still living. 
               The reader will recall to mind, that the islanders had spoken of a chief whom they revered in a much higher degree than their temporal king, endowing him, in their imagination, with more than mortal affinities, and Capt. Peters, whose matter of fact mind was rarely stimulated to make deep investigations, had really, excited by curiosity, resolved to discover if possible, who this religious chief might be, or whether he was a man or myth. 
               He found the old king, Holooloo, whom he had had an interview with on his former visit, and resorted, together with the mate, to every persuasion he could think of, to induce the king to explain this mystery further, or to inform him where he could obtain an interview with this religious chief or high priest, or whatever he might be; but in vain. Nothing beyond what he had previously known could he learn, and when he expressed his intention of visiting the sacred place, he was told, with mingled expressions of terror and anger, that the island was "tabooed;" that he (the king) dare not visit it, but at certain periods, and that it would be death for the strangers to approach its shores. The interview terminated, the captain and the mate returned together to the beach, where they had left the boat, having previously arranged with the island monarch for a daily supply of vegetables, fruits and wild hogs with which the island abounded. 
               "It ain't no use, Cap'n Peters," said Silas Thorne, "that 'ere old king a sartifyin' about the island, where I seed the apparition of that beautiful creetur' of a gal, a bein' tabooed, as they calls it. Leastways, there ain't no fears of death in visitin' it. 'Cos why-I visited it when we were here afore, although it was unbeknown to old Holooloo. He's just a gammoning on us, and that makes me stick closer to the pint, that there is something there, if, maybe, it's only a spook; but go and see for myself, I will, spite o' the old chap's warnings, always axin' your permission." 
               "I ain't got no manner of objection, Silas," replied the captain; "'taint often that my curiosity is riz-I've travelled over too much of the world in my day; but, you see, it don't do to go agin these people when they've tabooed anything. It raises their dander like, and leads to onpleasant consequences. However, go if you like, but take care of yourself, and wait till we've got our provisions and water aboard, or may be they'll stop supplies." 
               "Just as you says, Cap'n Peters," returned the mate. "I'll wait, and welcome, so that I goes afore the vessel sails. How long do you intend to remain here, Cap'n?" 
               "Not more than a few days, to rest the men. You see, we've been tarnation unlucky this vy'ge, so far, and it won't do to waste time. We must be off to the cruising ground as soon as possible." 
               The crew returned duly on board, all delighted with the kind reception they had met with from the islanders, and especially with the beauty and vivacity of the females. The visits were repeated every day, and always a similar welcome awaited them ashore. The fertility of the island appeared to be inexhaustible, for though so small in extent, there seemed to be no limit to the supply of fruits and vegetables, although so large a quantity was required over and above what was needed for the daily supply of the natives; still it was noticed that a strict watch was maintained around the small island of Ooleah, which was the islet on which Silas Thorne asserted that he had seen the apparition of the fair girl, and which was supposed to be the tabooed, or sacred island, spoken of by the king. 
                
               On the day before the vessel was to sail, the mate resolved to execute his long intended project of visiting this island. He had learned that Allen was also possessed with a strange fancy to visit this spot, and as the affair, if undertaken at all, required to be managed with great secresy, Silas Thorne determined to take Allen alone along with him. 
               Watching an opportunity in the dusk of evening, when the vigilance of the natives seemed to have abated, and, indeed, when the crew had returned from their last visit to the shore, the mate and the young sailor quietly slipped into the ship's dingie, or jolly boat, and, with muffled oars, pulled rapidly but silently towards the interdicted island. 
               All seemed to promise favorably. No one, even on board the ship, had noticed the boat's departure; not a canoe was to be seen in the bay; not a native on the alert on shore. A rare occurrence in these latitudes, even the light of the moon was partially obscured by a thin, fleecy cloud at the moment when they slipped the boat's painter and left the vessel's side. 
               The island was about a league distant from the ship, and about the same space lay between it and the larger island of Mattao. Apparently unnoticed by any one, the little boat glided swiftly along, its course marked by the white sheen left in its wake as its keel divided the waters. So still was everything around; so sweetly the scent from the wild flowers, which lined the slopes on shore, was borne past them by the gentle zephyrs of the evening; so solemn was the silence, unbroken, save by the occasional whistle of some feathered songster, cheering his mate as she watched over her young brood; so phantom-like seemed the rocks that lined the coast as their dark shadows loomed far out into the bay, that feelings of poetry or superstition were easily engendered according to the temperament of the lonely and silent voyagers, amidst that death-like stillness. With Allen, the former predominated; he uttered not a word, but his soul drank in rich draughts of intoxication, as headland after headland was passed by, and every moment some more exquisite picture was dimly presented to his view. 
               With the mate it was otherwise; he had longed for the night and the silence that prevailed, but now that he found himself in its midst, feelings of superstition began to prevail over him. The black rocks, looming large through the darkness, seemed to him to be the abode of unhallowed spirits; the silence of night, to be that of the grave. He thought of the words of the old king, that death awaited the rash mortals who ventured, unsummoned, within the limits of the tabooed territory. The very word taboo, long as he had been accustomed to hear it among the inhabitants of the islands of Polynesia, had something more than usually mysterious about it-now, at this solemn hour-and at last he whispered to Allen- 
               "Let us return. Arter all, I see no use in prosecuting this sarch, no good can come of it." 
               "Not now," said Allen, speaking himself in as low a tone. "See, there is the island, Ooleah, now looming out ahead. In a few moments more we shall touch the shore." 
                
               "Auwee! Auwee!" the common exclamation of the islanders, on all occasions of surprise, rung out shrill and clear through the silence of the night. 
               "Hark! What is that?" exclaimed the mate. "Let us go back; back water-I will pull her round." 
               "No, no," said the youth; "pull away; heed not that cry." 
               And "Auwee! Auwee!" was again shouted, and the sound rang on the ears of the startled seamen, as though some ghost were hailing them and demanding why they intruded upon his spirit-domain; for though the voice sounded sharp and clear, nothing was visible in the direction whence it proceeded. 
               "Hush! What is that?" again exclaimed the mate. 
                
               "It is the shout of some native," said Allen; "you must often have heard it before." 
               "Then let us put back; it is a foolish errand, this of ours. What business have we to visit their tabooed islands?" 
               "And the mysterious female!" said Alien, laughingly. 
               "Hush! lad; don't mention her at this time-back water-let us go back to the ship," and the hardy, tough old seaman who would have faced, without fear, a hundred native canoes in broad daylight, shrank with a child's affright now in the gloom of night at the sound of a solitary islander's voice. 
               "I go on shore, at any rate," said Allen, loosing temporarily all respect for the authority of the officer, as he felt the increasing excitement of the occasion. 
               The words had, however, scarcely escaped his lips, when a dozen canoes were seen emerging from the darkness, and a general shout of "Auwee! Auwee!" rang across the bay. One of the largest canoes rushed swiftly against the bow of the jolly boat, and Allen, who was pulling the bow oar, was precipitated into the water. Silas Thorne was now so thoroughly frightened, that he did not notice the disappearance of his companion; but pulling vigorously with the stroke oar, he whirled the boat round and round for some time, while the islanders in the canoes still threatened him and motioned him to return to the ship. At last, observing that Allen was missing, and believing in his fright that he had been spirited away, and noticing likewise the odd antics he was playing in the water, he frantically seized his oar, and placing it over the stern, sculled rapidly away. 
               Apparently satisfied with his retreat, the islanders did not offer to molest him, and he reached the ship in safety, but almost paralyzed with fear. He had a strange story to tell, and he vowed that he had seen Allen taken bodily out of the boat by some mysterious unseen power. 
               Captain Peters listened to the story. Whether he believed it or not, we cannot say. At all events, some of the superstitious tious old sailors did. The vessel waited a day or two, but in vain; nothing was heard of the missing youth. Even the natives knew, or professed to know nothing of his fate; and the story was embellished with numerous comments; often talked over during the rest of the voyage, and finally added to the budget of seamen's authorized ghost yarns. But Allen was not lost. He had fallen overboard when the boat was struck by the canoe, unobserved by the natives, and being a good swimmer, had struck out boldly for the shore, from which he was not far distant. 
               He landed unperceived, and walked along the beach into the shade of a thick wood a short distance off. Then he turned round, looked about him, and began to consider what he should do next, and to wonder what had become of the mate. 
               While he was still standing, in doubt, he was startled by a soft voice whispering the everlasting native salutation, "Auwee! Auwee!" 
               He turned-the moonbeams had dispersed the fleecy cloud which had heretofore obscured them, and their light now rested softly upon the graceful figure of a young girl, apparently eighteen or twenty years of age, whose lovely features perfectly enchanted the youth, who had little dreamed of so lovely an apparition greeting him in that solitude. 
               He stood as one fascinated, and the girl, perhaps misconstruing his silence, again spoke to him, addressing him in the native dialect. 
               Not thinking of what he was saying, he replied in English: 
               "Whoever or whatever you are, I cannot understand you." 
               An exclamation of mingled surprise and pleasure burst from the lips of the girl. 
               "You speak English," she said, herself speaking in that tongue, though her voice had something strangely foreign in its accent; "who are you?-whence come you? You are wet to the skin; come to my father's house. He will be glad to see you, and give you shelter." 
               Utterly confounded with what he heard and saw, scarcely believing that all was not a dream, and actually rubbing his eyes and pinching himself to discover whether he were awake or asleep, the young man, without uttering another word, followed the fair speaker along a path in the wood, through which she bounded with the grace and agility of a young fawn. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               THE FAIRY OF THE MYSTERIOUS ISLAND. 
               MOVING along, as if drawn by some irresistible power, un able readily to recover from the confusion into which his ideas had been thrown by the singular events which had occurred during the last quarter of an hour-for within that period he had been thrown overboard from the boat, had swam on shore amid the darkness, and had been confronted in the wood by the lovely female who had so singularly addressed him in his native tongue-Allen followed the rapidly flying footsteps of the beautiful girl, through the tangled maze, keeping up with her, however, not without much difficulty, for fallen branches obstructed the narrow path, over which he stumbled frequently, but which seemed to offer no impediment to the fairy-like flight of his lovely conductress. 
               The moon had shone forth in the clearing, bright as she shines in the tropics alone, but her light was completely obscured in the wood; and the faint glimpse he caught of the white garment of the retreating form of the girl, was his only guide. For full a mile he followed on, bruising his shins severely, and often pricking his hands and face with the brambles which occasionally overspread the path; when suddenly he lost sight of his conductress, and, fearful of losing his way, stood stock still in the depth of the wood. 
               He was in a glowing perspiration with the exercise he had undergone, notwithstanding his wet garments, and now that he found himself alone, he began to consider what he had better do next, and to think, whether, after all, he had not been dreaming, or deceived by some optical delusion. For many minutes he stood thus pondering on the strange events that had come to pass, wondering what had become of the mate-doubting still whether he were not the victim of some fallacy-trying to reconcile what Silas Thorne had told him of the beautiful apparition he had met some years before near the same spot, and thinking a number of absurd and contradictory thoughts. At last, just as he had made up his mind to retrace his steps as best he could, he was again startled by the cry of "Auwee!" not from the hoarse throat of an islander, but by the musical voice of the girl. 
               "Auwee!" shouted Allen, with the full force of his lungs, and he heard a girlish laugh in the direction whence the native salutation had proceeded; and in a moment more he caught a glimpse of the girl, accompanied, as he fancied-for he could but indistinctly trace the outline of the second figure-by one of the islanders. 
               He was a little frightened at first, for he recollected that the island was tabooed or interdicted by the natives of Mattao, and he knew with what severity, what cruelty often, the islanders visited any tresspass upon what they considered to be sacred soil. 
               "However," thought he, "surely no harm can be intended towards me, by that beautiful creature; whoever she be, angel, fairy, or woman of mortal mould, I will put a bold face upon it, and see the adventure through." 
               Whoever it was that accompanied the girl, he did not approach any nearer, but she advanced to the young man, and in her pretty foreign accent, said softly: 
               "Follow me." 
               "To the end of the earth," said the young man, "be you angel or woman, or demon in an angel's guise." 
               The girl did not appear to understand him. She stood for some moments, as if in thought, then laughed merrily, and beckoning with her hand for the youth to follow, sprang for ward as gracefully and rapidly as before. 
               The islander, or whoever it was who had accompanied her, had probably returned, for he was not to be seen; and for the space of a quarter of a mile further, Allen stumbled along through the wood, until at length he emerged into an extensive clearing, but apparently cultivated with considerable taste-clumps of trees, laden with umbrageous foliage, having been left here and there, as if at once to give beauty and shade to the spot. 
               Still following his mysterious guide, he penetrated into the midst of one of those clumps of trees, and saw before him a long, low hut, constructed after the fashion of the native huts generally, but of much larger proportions, and, as he could perceive by the moonlight, much more handsomely finished; beside it, though a little in the rear, stood what he took to be a religious temple, since it resembled the structures he had read of as being erected for the purposes of their heathen worship, by some of the islanders of Polynesia; although, to his astonishment, the structure before him bore a cross on the summit of its dome-like spire. 
               "I'm either bewitched or transported into fairy land," muttered the young man to himself, as he followed the girl into the hut. "It's near midnight now, however, and therefore the enchantment will soon be broken, and I shall come to my senses again." 
               The house was thatched with palmettos, and was entered by an archway beneath the drooping eaves, before which was suspended a mat curtain, which answered, in that warm climate, all the purposes of a door; indeed, it is only the chiefs and men of rank who even adopt this method of screening the interior of their dwellings from the vulgar gaze; the archway being the ever open door in the huts of the humbler natives. The apartment in which the young man now found himself, was feebly lighted by a taper formed of a kind of fragrant, bituminous nous reed, which grows in great abundance on the islands, and he looked around him and discovered that he was alone-his conductress had disappeared, but he was not surprised at this, as a curtain of matting, falling from the centre of the roof, indicated that the interior of the abode-a somewhat rare circumstance-was divided into compartments. 
               At the end, farthest from the doorway, of the apartment in which he now stood, was a raised platform or dais, covered with cushions of soft matting and grass-woven pillows, and, around the room, a sort of sofa was stretched, covered with similar materials. A large window, at each side, no doubt admitted light during the day, but mat curtains had been let down over these apertures to exclude the night air. 
               While the young man was employing himself in the examination of the apartment into which he had been so strangely conducted, the curtain in the centre of the room was partially drawn aside, and a figure presented itself, which was well calculated to astonish, if not to alarm him. 
               It was that of a man, whose white hair and beard descending nearly to his waist, indicated advanced years, although his form was robust and erect, and his eye keen and piercing as that of a man in prime of life. 
               "An island chief," thought the youth, "but what purpose that beautiful fairy can have in bringing me into this abode, and then disappearing, I cannot conceive." 
               A second glance at the figure before him, told him at once, that it was not a native, or, if it were, it was one of a race differing from the ordinary inhabitants of the islands. Among these, the beard was never of so great a length, and the hair, though turning white with age, preserved its peculiar Indian-like lank straitness to the last, or else, in some of the islands, it was woolly, like that of the negro; but the hair of the old man now before him, was soft and wavy as that of an European, and the contour of his face differed entirely from the island type. Still, he was dark as the darkest of the natives, but of a different shade. His was no olive complexion, nor yet the glossy black of the negro, nor any of the intermediate shades; he appeared to be bronzed by sun and exposure, to a nondescript color, such as may sometimes be found among the aged seamen of Portugal or Spain, and Allen, after his first surprise had worn away, conjectured that he was an European, who had been for many years a resident of these islands. A mantle of cloth, or tappa, of native manufacture, was thrown over his shoulders, a hole having been cut in the centre to allow the head to pass through, something after the fashion of the short cloak worn by the cavaliers of Peru and Chili; but the arms, from the elbow downwards, were bare, as well as the legs from the knees, and the portions of the naked body visible were deeply tattooed, according to the custom among the island chiefs of the highest rank. The feet were encased in sandals woven with rushes, and these completed the simple attire of the strange individual whom the youth now found himself confronted with. The old man had not yet spoken, and while the youth had been taking this rapid survey of his person, the idea had momentarily crossed his mind, "Can this possibly be the old sailor, Allen, who is in some way so singularly connected with my childhood's recollections? Can it be that I have been thus strangely guided to that island of the vast Pacific, in which something has ever whispered in my dreams, the old seaman still lives?" But a second thought dissipated this idea, for it was inconceivable that any European could become so changed in appearance from his race, as was this singular being. 
               At length, the old man addressed him in the native dialect-which, by the way, was utterly incomprehensible to the youth; but he understood his host's gestures more clearly. He pointed to a huge pile of tappa, and to the young man's wet clothing, and then to the comfortable couches with their soft covering, as if he bade him change his attire and then compose himself to rest; and having done this, he retired behind the curtain and left the youth to himself. 
                
               "The old fellow's hospitable enough-no fault to find with him for that," muttered the young man to himself; "and since I've got into this adventure, I may as well go through it with spirit. I'll avail myself of his offer, for to tell the truth, these wet garments are anything but agreeable." 
               The wet clothes were quickly doffed, and wrapping several folds of tappa around him, Allen was soon semi-transformed into an island native himself. 
               Then turning himself at full length upon the yielding couch, he exclaimed aloud: 
               "Well, this is a tolerably comfortable termination to the first phase of my strange adventure. A fellow who has swung for some months in a hammock in a whale-ship's 'tween decks, can make out a comfortable snooze here; but I feel confoundedly hungry, I wish I had something to eat." 
               The words had scarcely escaped his lips, before the old man re-appeared, bearing in his hand a basket containing dried hog's flesh and vegetables and fowls of various kinds, and a coarse earthen pipkin filled with some kind of liquor, which he placed before his bewildered guest, and again silently withdrew. 
               "I'm certainly bewitched," thought the young man, "or I've got into some enchanted island; and that's my 'slave of the lamp,' as the Arabian Night's has it. A rum looking old genius he is, too; still I may as well dip into the provender." 
               And this he did right heartily, and having satisfied his hunger, he tasted the liquor in the earthen pipkin, which he found to be very palatable and soothing; so much so, indeed, that he took a hearty draught, and then another and another, until a sense of drowsiness overpowered him, and he sank back on the couch and fell into a deep slumber. 
               When he awoke, the sun was high in the heavens; the curtains of his sleeping apartment had been raised, and the warm rays of the sun streamed through the aperture into the room. He fancied that he had been awakened by a soft hand laid gently upon his shoulder; and, as he languidly opened his eyes, he thought he caught a glimpse of a fairy form passing through the door. He started up, and sitting in a half recumbent posture, looked vacantly around him. His first thoughts were those of astonishment at finding himself in such a strange position, for he had forgotten in his sleep the events of the previous night; but by degrees, they came to his recollection; and he sprang from his couch, arranged his unwonted toilet to the best of his unskilled ability, and passed through the arched doorway into the open air. There, close to the door, apparently waiting for him and expecting his speedy appearance, stood the beautiful girl, who had acted the part of his mysterious guide on the previous evening. 
               "She is no fairy," thought the youth, as he gazed upon her admiringly, "but real flesh and blood, and the loveliest creature I have ever seen." 
               Oh, Charles Allen! no reservation in favor of Laura Denman! Alas! for the fickleness of mankind. Laura had once, on the day when, for the first and last time, he told his tale of love, heard him say the same of her. 
               It is necessary, however, that we describe, as best we can, though descriptions of female beauty is not our forte, the personal appearance of the fair girl upon whom the admiring glances of the young sailor were fixed. 
               She was rather low in stature, and slightly, and delicately, yet most elegantly formed, and the scantiness of her attire allowed every outline of her beautifully-rounded limbs to be seen-for her shoulders, and her arms, and her legs, from the knee downwards, were bare; her complexion was a dark olive, but withal so clear, that the mantling blush upon her cheek, called forth by the ardent gaze of the fascinated youth, could be distinctly seen through the smooth brown skin; her hair was long, black, silky, and glossy, and floating over her face and beautifully-moulded shoulders, hung down considerably below her waist, unconfined by string or ribbon-for the appliances and disfiguring fashions of civilization had not found their way to this distant isle. Her features were small, but regular, and exceedingly sweet in their expression; her brow was broad, low, and splendidly arched, and her head was set most gracefully upon her proudly-curved neck; perhaps, if objection could be made to any feature, in one whose tout ensemble was so beautiful, it might be that the nostrils were a thought too wide; but the nose itself was straight, and the failing, if indeed it could be termed one, suited so well to the peculiar style of her beauty, that, perhaps, a more strictly Grecian contour would have marred the effect of her Oriental cast of feature; her nostrils expanded with the least emotion, and her small mouth, when she smiled-and she now smiled, half in arch merriment, half in order to cover her bashfulness-wore an expression of enchanting sweetness. The eyes were large, black, and lustrous, and shaded by long, silky eye-lashes of the same color, while the eye-brows above were pencilled with the most perfect regularity. 
               Such was the appearance of the lovely island nymph, upon whom the youth was gazing with an admiration which seemed in some degree to be mingled with awe. 
               Both remained silent for some minutes. The girl was the first to speak. 
               She addressed the young man in the native dialect, which, of course, was incomprehensible to him; but the tone of her voice was so soft and musical, that he was captivated with it, and he replied: 
               "I do not understand your language, fair maiden; but last night I dreamed-or you spoke to me in English; speak to me so again; tell who you are-how you came here-and what does this mean? I am bewildered!" 
               The girl listened attentively, as though the sounds were familiar to her, and at the same time difficult to understand, on account of long disuse. 
               "I speak English, sometimes, to my father," she said, at length. 
                
               "Then, who is your father? was it he I saw last night?" 
               "Yes," returned the girl. 
               "And who and what is he? He is not a native of these islands, and yet he cannot be an Englishman?" 
               "I don't know; he is my father." 
               "And your mother-have you a mother living?" 
               "My mother is dead-dead long ago," said the girl, in a sad tone of voice. 
               "And she was-" 
               "My dear mother," interrupted the girl. 
               A very lucid explanation, thought the young man; but, thinking that he might learn something that would enable him to clear up the mystery in which he found himself involved, he said: 
               "Will you walk with me? The morning is fine and cool. I should like to see your island home. 
               "Yes, I will walk," said the girl; and, with winning confidence, she came to his side, and both together strolled leisurely along in the direction of the sea-shore. 
               Allen looked around him, in the expectation of seeing the old man with whom he had had an interview on the previous evening, but he did not make his appearance. The young man, certainly, was not particularly desirous of his company; he had metal more attractive to engross his attention; but his strange absence, and the innocent freedom and unsuspicious behavior of the young girl, only increased his bewilderment. 
               "What is your name?" asked Allen, of his fair companion. 
               "Adillah," replied the girl. 
               "A pretty name," said the youth; "was that your mother's name?" 
               "No, her name was Zillah." 
               "How long is it since she died?" 
               "Many moons ago; so long ago that I cannot recollect. I only recollect my mother in my dreams." 
               "Do you often dream, pretty Adillah?" 
                
               "Very often-I dream of strange things; things I have never seen in my waking moments; things that I have heard my father speak of. I dreamed of you-it is some moons since." 
               "You dreamt of me!" exclaimed the youth, in a tone of gratified surprise; "and how could you dream of me, pretty Adillah? Your father has never spoken of me." 
               "He has told me of such as you, living in far distant lands, beneath where the sun rises, and I have longed to see such beings, and so I dream of them; and, at last, you came." 
               "And now that I have come, Adillah?" 
               "You must not go away again, you must make your home here; my father will love you." 
               "Will you love me, Adillah?" 
               "Yes, if you stay." 
               This was said with so much innocence, that, although the young man felt a thrill of delight on hearing the words, he knew that they were uttered in all simplicity, and had no serious meaning. 
               "Who is your father?" he asked. 
               "A great chief among the islanders of Mattao, greater than the king, Hoolooloo: but he is lonely here-none visit him; he is too mighty, too powerful." 
               "Are you his only companion?" 
               "Yes, except when, on feast-days, the people from Mattao come here to worship. This island is tabooed. It is sacred to religion." 
               They had, by this time, reached the sea-shore, and Allen gazed anxiously across the bay, in the hope of seeing the ship; but she was not visible; a bluff promontory on the island of Mattao, shut out the anchorage ground completely from his sight, and there did not seem to be boat, canoe, or any other mode of conveyance from the island. 
               The heart of the young man sunk within him. He felt that he was, as it were, a prisoner on this lovely islet of the wide Pacific, and he fell into a painful reverie, from which he was awakened by a clear ringing laugh from the fair girl by his side. 
               "It is time to eat," she said: "come to the house-my father will be waiting. You cannot live by looking upon the sea." 
               "But the ship!" said Allen. 
               "The ship!" exclaimed the girl. "What is the ship?" 
               "The big canoe I came across the ocean in," said the youth, adapting his language to the girl's comprehension. "It is there I have left my companions." 
               "I do not understand you," said Adillah. Come, let us return. You said you would stay here and love me," and she playfully seized him by the arm, and attempted to drag him away. 
               In truth, he needed little persuasion. A houri, lovely as Mahomet's paradise can boast, and more innocent, was clinging to his arm. He was young, and careless of the future. For the moment, Laura was forgotten, and he allowed himself to be led away. Together they returned to the hut in the midst of the forest. 
               On entering the house, Allen saw, seated on the dais, the old man who had so kindly enacted the host on the previous evening, and before him, on a rudely-constructed table, was spread an ample, and, to a hungry youth, a tempting repast, consisting of dried meat, fish, fruits, and vegetables, and pipkins of liquor, similar to that which had had such a somniferous effect upon the young man the previous night. 
               The old man rose on their entrance; and, speaking a few words in the native dialect to his daughter, he beckoned to Alien to seat himself on the couch, and appease the cravings of his hunger. 
               Nothing loth to do this, the young man sat down, and ate heartily of the food spread before him, although his thoughts were busy with other matters, and he was wondering still what this singular adventure would result in at last. 
                
               Adillah, too, ate heartily; but the old man partook but sparingly. His eyes were riveted upon the young man's face, and his countenance betrayed, despite the wrinkles of age and the bronze of sea air and sun, and the grizzly beard, which almost wholly concealed the mouth and chin, the commingling emotions that were working in his bosom. 
               As yet, he had not spoken, save in, the Kanaka dialact of the islanders; but, since the girl spoke English-though with some difficulty-Allen thought it likely the father spoke that language too, and at last he put the question to him in English- 
               "What is your name?" 
               "What is your name?" was the reply, in the same language. 
               "Allen-Charles Allen," said the youth, somewhat surprised at the nature of the question, as well as at the freedom from foreign accent in the old man's speech. 
               "You are an American?" 
               "Yes," said the youth, in a tone of still greater surprise. 
               "From whence?" 
               "From Nantucket," replied Allen. 
               "Good God! it must be so," exclaimed the patriarch. "I thought, last night, I could not be mistaken in those lineaments; but I forbore to speak, for I dreaded lest hope long deferred had misled me and beguiled my fancy." 
               These words were spoken in a tone of such deep feeling, so utterly at variance with the rude and strange aspect of the speaker, that the youth gazed into his face with amazement; and even the girl's interest seemed to be strangely excited. 
               "Who and what are you!" said the youth, as soon as he could trust himself to speak. 
               The old man did not reply; but, rising from the couch, he addressed his daughter in her native tongue, and then, beckoning to the young man to follow him, he passed out of the hut. 
               "Tell me," he said, as soon as they breathed the free air-"tell me, young man, all your history, from the earliest period you can recollect. I have a strange interest in knowing it. Tell me all-and then I will relate my own story. My name, too, is Charles Allen." 
               "My long-lost father!" exclaimed the youth, grasping nervously the old man's arm. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               NEW-YEAR'S DAY IN NEW ZEALAND. 
               WE ask our readers to perform half the task, so liberally promised by Puck- 
                      
                        "To put a girdle round about the earth 
                        In forty minutes," 
                     
                   and imagine themselves with us at the antipodes of the island groups we mentioned in the preceding chapter. 
               The scene to which we transport them, is a romantically situated harbor in New Zealand; a deep, lonely bay, almost entirely land-locked-surrounded by lofty hills, richly wooded, and entered by an entrance so narrow, as to make it extremely difficult for a vessel to find, or after she has found it, to work either in or out, except under peculiarly favorable circumstances of wind and tide. 
               It was New-Year's day, and everything was in its fullest bloom, green and flowering, for it must be remembered that New-Year's day in New Zealand is midsummer. 
               Nature had done much for the harbor of Waizunga, and man in his own peculiar way had done more, for on every side burned villages, destroyed houses, shattered enclosures, and a few human bones, still bleaching on the deserted beach, bore evidence of the character of a visit made a few years before by Ongi-a mighty warrior among the New Zealanders. 
               The sea seemed as deserted as the shore, not a native canoe was to be seen; but a boat, belonging to the one small vessel that was anchored in the bay, lay on the waters, and on the shore a group of three men-were all of the human kind that were to be seen. The first of these was a sailor, tall, stout, and athletic in form, with a bold, undaunted, yet withal somewhat ferocious expression of countenance-but for that expression, he might have been considered a handsome young man. His companions contrasted strongly with him. One of them was several years older, avarice had drawn deep lines upon his face, and ardent spirits had etched a few strokes of their own also; but there was none of the good fellowship apparent in him, that appeared in the open face of the other. He seemed a screwing trader, and a sneaking companion; a man that would hide away his bottle at the approach of his friend; but, having lived some time in the country, and picked up enough of the language to enable him to drive a bargain, and enough knowledge of the customs of the natives, to enable him to see when it was time to make preparations against being cooked and eaten, as had befallen some of his predecessors, he was useful, if not necessary, to the sailor, whose vessel was taking in a cargo of spars, flax, and, as we shall see, perhaps something more. 
               The third of this group, was one of Nature's own gentlemen, for art had touched him but little and improved him less, though the chisel had been as profusely employed upon his person, as upon the Apollo Belvidere, till, as the sailor observed, "take him bow on or quarter on, stern on or stem on, you saw nothing but tattooing,"-which, indeed, was the case, he being a chief of very high rank, namely, Ongi himself, who was expected by his tribe to dress well, according to their peculiar notions. On this occasion, however, in compliment to his visitors, he considered it necessary to conform in some degree to European notions of dress, and accordingly he wore a pair of canvas trowsers, profusely daubed with tar, paint and whale oil, and embroidered with patches. These were tucked up above his knees, and one dilapidated top-boot completed his costume of ceremony, unless, indeed, a few feathers stuck in his hair, may be considered as essential to a full description of his attire. 
               This gentleman sat in a primitive manner, on his haunches, and close to him was the article of traffic he had brought with him, and his eyes wandered from it to the two white men, with some distrust, more curiosity, and a most exceeding desire to imitate every action of theirs. The sailor was our old acquaintance, Henry Benson, whom the reader will recollect, we left in the act of taking a solemn oath over his father's grave, on the beach near Maidstone. The oath that he registered, was to the effect that he would revenge his father's murder, by wreaking vengeance upon his species. He then resolved to commence the career of a pirate. It was, indeed, but a slight change from his former life: he had been bred a smuggler, and a pirate is but a sea-robber of a darker shade. He had, since last we met him, been on a voyage to Mozambique, where, aided by some of his messmates, whom he had persuaded to join him, he had seized the vessel-set the captain and mates, and a portion of the crew on shore-and sailed away on his own account. He was now masquerading as a peaceful merchant captain, and endeavoring to procure a cargo to sell in some foreign port, for lack of more remunerative and exciting employment. 
               His companion was a runaway convict from Sidney, who had set up as merchant and general agent in New Zealand. 
               The object which had brought these worthies together was commerce. A demand had arisen in the London curiosity market, for New Zealanders' heads, and although Benson dared not go to England to sell them, he knew he could dispose of them profitably to some of the traders who were to be met with, in the more frequented ports of New Zealand; consequently, he had arranged with the convict Hastings, to enter into a contract with this redoubtable chief, to supply his ship with a hundred of these grim trophies; but some difficulty ty had been encountered in fulfilling the contract The chief had brought a sample, but they did not please Benson-they were those of the common people, and not tattooed enough-and the chief asserted, that unless he were supplied with a musket and ammunition, he could never procure a sufficiency of warriors' heads. This, Benson was willing to supply him with, but the more experienced trader overruled him. 
               "No no, Mr. Benson," said he, "that will never do. These fellows never do execution with fire-arms, they hide themselves in holes, and keep popping at each other for days together, and there won't be a man hit. No, no, sir, we'll give 'em plenty of tomahawks-that's the tool for them to work with. They'll cut down a man with a tomahawk, even while they are rubbing noses with him. Besides, when they do get a gun, they spoil it in a fortnight, by cleaning the lock and pulling it to pieces." 
               "Just as you think best, Hastings," returned the other, preparing to light a cigar. "The great thing is to get the heads, but tell him they must be got in three weeks." 
               Hastings explained this, and received the satisfactory information, that if a supply of tomahawks were provided, the heads should be delivered in prime condition, dried and prepared, at the stipulated time, and the party rose to separate. 
               They spent the rest of the day pleasantly enough, Benson amusing himself with alternately caressing and beating a New Zealand girl-a temporary wife, who lived on board, and Mr. Hastings, with the help of rum and tobacco, making out his time pretty well, when an unfortunate observation he made, led to a conversation which disturbed their mutual serenity. 
               "What a glorious sunset," said he. "How splendidly the orb of day sets in the night." 
               ."Does it?" observed the other, scarcely moving his lips, and not at all his eyes. 
               "I never see the sun, or the everlasting glories of (hiccup) nature; but I feel what a wretched sinner I am," continued Hastings, "I am-you are-we are-all sinners-sinners." 
               "I don't doubt you are a capital judge of the article; so, I suppose, am I," said Benson, half closing his eyes. 
               "Suppose! Lord have mercy upon us-I know it-I exhort you to repentance," continued Hastings, who was almost drunk, and who had a habit, when in that state, of fancying himself a religious man. "Repent, repent-though your sins be as scarlet-and I know your's are. I know how you found your way to this part of the world-repent, brother, leave off drinking-dismiss that woman-swear no more-repent, I say, my beloved brother." 
               "Keep your fore paws to yourself, you hound," answered his beloved brother, for, Hastings endeavored to enforce his eloquence, by slapping Benson's knee-"and if you have the insolence to call me your brother again, I'll wring your canting neck for you." 
               This threat silenced the man for the moment, and he again applied himself to the rum-bottle. But Benson, who speedily forgot his irritation, said abruptly: 
               "What brought you to New Zealand?" 
               "To tell the truth, Captain Benson, I was sentenced to transportation to Sydney, for a crime I never committed." 
               "Of course not," interrupted Benson-"I never knew a convict that was not an innocent man, suffering for the offences of others. What a number of innocent martyrs there are in Botany Bay; but go on, I asked you what brought you to New Zealand, and you say you were transported to Sydney." 
               "So I was, but I made my escape, and came here." 
               "But why did you come here?" 
               "I came to work a pious work-I heard that the missionaries were laboring in the vineyard with much advantage, and I came here to share their religious labors." 
               "Canting hypocrite!" muttered Benson; "and to share their pious profits, too, I suppose," he added, with a sneer. 
                
               "Surely the laborer is worthy of his hire," returned Hastings. "But I gathered brambles where I expected figs; the missionaries were wolves in the guise of lambs; they were prejudiced against me; they would not credit my assertion, that I was guiltless of crime. They told the people I was a deceiver and the men of Belial sought my life. A chief who had the tooothache, declared I had bewitched him, and that he would eat me to cure it." 
               "Is human flesh considered a cure for the toothache in New Zealand?" sneered Benson. 
               "No; but he would have eaten me, nevertheless; but I escaped out of the hands of the chief, and stirred up another of the Philistines to smite him, even unto the death, and his head now figures in the British Museum;-I sold; it for a high price, for it was curiously tattooed." 
               "Cease your chatter, or talk English, will you," said Benson. "I'm bad enough. Religion and I are not friends, but I don't like to hear the Bible quoted in masquerade, by such rogues as you." 
               "I calculate two of a trade can never agree," returned the convict-sotto voce-and dropping his hypocritical phraseology; but Benson had fallen asleep, his head resting upon the New Zealand girl's shoulder. His shirt bosom was partly open, and, drunk as he was, Hastings observed a locket suspended by a string from the sailor's neck, upon his breast, and containing the portrait of a fair young girl. 
               True to his instinct, he managed to steal it away without being observed by the New Zealand girl, who was dozing, herself; but he half awakened Benson, who, imagining that his drunken companion had fallen against him by accident, muttered between his teeth:- 
               "You'll try that dodge on once too often, my joker," and composed himself to sleep again. 
               Hastings removed to another part of the deck, and with drunken gravity, seeing that all was quiet, examined the portrait by the light of the binnacle. 
               Stupefied as he was, he appeared to be strangely affected by it, for he started, muttered some unintelligible words to himself, and then carefully placing the trinket in his pocket, he managed to scramble into a boat alongside, and to scull himself on shore. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               THE UNEXPECTED APPEARANCE OF THE GUARDIAN. 
               THE various intricate matters connected with the plot of our story, compel us frequently to wander over half the globe, and to narrate alternately incidents which occurred in places as wide apart as the limits of this terrestrial planet will allow. We left Laura Denman some time since, just when Mrs. Baker had invited her to attend a party, which that lady intended to give, and at which poor Laura was expected to eke out her already poorly-paid services, by playing cheap music for the entertainment of her lady patroness's guests. Laura, as we heretofore mentioned, had resolved to accept the invitation, which had in it so much of command, and she attired herself in her best for the occasion. Poor girl! she had already tasted deeply of the bitter cup of dependence, and her best attire was now so worn and old-fashioned, that she felt a deep sense of humiliation, as she viewed herself in the only small mirror that Louisa Mildmay's room boasted of, and thought how differently she was wont, but a short time before, to array herself on such occasions as these. 
               "You look sad, Laura," said Louisa Mildmay-she called her Laura now; the two girls had grown intimate in misfortune; all foolish etiquette was now dropped between them-"you look sad." And she smiled a wan smile as she spoke-"it is ill to go with a sorry face to a festive meeting." 
               "Much rather would I remain here with you, dear Louisa," replied Laura; "but I promised Mrs. Baker that I would go, and perhaps-you know-it may"- 
               "Lead to something better," interrupted Louisa; "I read your anticipation, Laura. Well, I hope it may; but you have not yet been thoroughly drilled in the school of adversity, or you would learn to mistrust even hope, the last support of the poor and helpless. Hope is for the ardent and the strong; for those who are able and willing to do battle with the world, and trample in turn upon those who oppress them. Man may hope, and succeed. If he falls, he can rise and struggle again; but woman, in this large city, where every branch of female industry is over-crowded-no-no-I have long felt there is no hope for us. But, how selfish I am," she added, "and how foolish I am talking. I complained of your looking sad, and I am doing my best to depress your spirits. Go, Laura-strong in hope-and fervently do I hope that your anticipations may be realized." 
               "At best, dear Louisa, my anticipations are but feeble," replied Laura. "Indeed, I repeat, I would rather remain at home: but what can I do? I could not refuse." 
               Louisa did not reply. She arose, laid aside her work, and busied herself in smoothing down Laura's dress-and making such trifling alterations in her scanty finery, as she thought would show it off to the best advantage, and, at the same time, conceal its poverty. 
               At length, all was arranged; and, kissing her humble, patient companion, and telling her that she would return home at as early an hour as possible, Laura set forth upon her visit. 
               She had been requested, by Mrs. Baker, to come at an early hour. The good lady had a great idea of the poor governess's taste, and she wished to submit her arrangements to her inspection and approval-not but that she would have been affronted if Laura had suggested any alteration, thereby impugning her own good taste; yet she would have made those alterations secretly, after all, thus tacitly acknowledging the superior tact and gentility of her dependent. 
               Laura had passed through the rooms, and approved generally of the arrangements, had submissively suggested some trifling improvements, and had assisted Mrs. Baker and the children to dress before any of the expected company arrived; and these several tasks accomplished, had descended to the parlor, to await the period when her services should be called for. 
               She had scarcely seated herself, and was listlessly turning over the leaves of a book, when Mr. Baker walked in. 
               She had never before seen this gentleman, as her duties called her to the house at a time when he was engaged in business. Mr. Baker was a broker in Wall-street, who dealt largely in fancy stocks-so exceedingly fanciful, in fact, that ill-natured people said they had only a shadowy existence, like the man in the moon. But it was a period of general prosperity-that is to say, a period of over-speculation and over-expenditure, a great commercial crisis having occurred only a year or two before-and people who had any method of raising money, were only too glad to profit by the opportunities so freely afforded them by men of Mr. Baker's stamp, to invest their money in any visionary project that came to hand. Mr. Baker, in fact, we may as well be particular, was the President of the New Lebanon Anti-corrosive Verdigris Company-the express object of which was to enable every man to supply himself with green paint at a mere nominal cost, the paint being collected by the gas from copper ore in a state of fusion, and the stock of the company having risen from nothing to 15, in the twinkling of an eye, promised to pay an increasing dividend every half year, and to be quoted at par, quicker than any other fancy stock mentioned in the Board. To be sure, nobody knew where New Lebanon was actually situated, nor whether there was any copper ore to be found there, if there was such a place. But that didn't matter-the president and directors were getting rich, and the stock was in great demand -so great, indeed, that every one who applied for it was assured that it was only as a great personal favor that he was allowed to purchase; but then the Board of Directors were such a kind-hearted, generous set of men, that they were always granting these personal favors to every one who sought them. 
               However, this is a digression. Mr. Baker, as we have said, was the President of the New Lebanon Anti-corrosive Verdigris Company, and Mr. Baker was getting rich. If things went well for another year, Mr. Baker had an idea of removing to the Fifth avenue. In person this gentleman was tall and slender, sallow-visaged and black-bearded, and moustached, keen-eyed, and quick in his motions; in fact, a very gentlemanly, go-ahead, thorough business sort of man; although he was fond of enjoying himself after his own fashion, in his hours of leisure. 
               Laura rose from her seat, as he entered the room. 
               "Keep your seat, Miss, pray keep your seat," said Mr. Baker. 
               "Whom, pray, have I the pleasure of meeting? Some friend of Mrs. Baker's, I presume. Really, I am so little at home, that I am a stranger to my wife's most intimate acquaintances?" 
               "My name is Denman, sir," said Laura. "I have been some short time engaged as governess to your children, for you, I presume, are Mr. Baker." 
               "Exactly so. Yes, you are Mary Jane and Sarah Anne's governess, eh? and your name is Denman-Miss Denman, eh? How do you succeed, Miss Denman? I hope you find your position in my family quite agreeable, eh?" 
               "As much so as I can expect, sir," answered Laura. "I have been engaged, as I have said, but a very short time." 
               "Well-I-that is, we must strive to render it agreeable to you. You are very young, Miss Denman, and-excuse me-very beautiful. It is really a pity to see so lovely a person employed in the humble duties of a governess," and Mr. Baker rose from his chair, and seated himself on the sofa in close proximity with the young lady. 
               Laura felt uneasy; the manner of Mr. Baker had become so free, the moment he learnt that she was the new governess, that it bordered upon rudeness, and as he took his seat by her side, he stared into her face so intently, that her cheeks became suffused with blushes. 
               At this moment Mrs. Baker entered the room. She started with surprise, as she saw her husband seated so near to, and apparently conversing so familiarly with Laura. She noted, too, the blush on Laura's cheek-and her eyebrows knit, and her thin lips were pressed so closely together, that the line of her mouth was scarcely discernible; but suddenly recovering herself, she said in a tone of assumed suavity and good humor:- 
               "I did not expect you home so early, George. I see you are acquainted with Miss Denby. (Mrs. Baker still retained the habit of calling Laura by the wrong name.) I wonder you never mentioned the fact to me-nor you either, Miss Denham. You must both be partial to secrets." 
               "I never saw the young lady before, my dear," replied Mr. Baker, slightly abashed; "and really, if I had known Miss Denman, I should hardly have recognized the name, for you have given her half a dozen different names, to my certain knowledge." 
               "Oh, nonsense, Mr. Baker," said the lady; "I really have something else to do-if you haven't, sir-than to recollect the names of such-of such-no matter, I have disturbed you-interrupted your cozy tte-a-tte. Excuse me. You will, I am sure, Miss Denham," and she sailed pompously, if not very gracefully, out of the room. 
               "I've put my foot into it, by Jove!" Mr. Baker classically exclaimed; "there'll be the d-l to pay. I must go and talk with the old lady, and make matters up. You and I, Miss Denman, will, I hope, see more of each other by and bye," and Mr. Baker quitted the parlor to go in search of his wife. 
               Laura felt that she had been insulted by both parties; by the rude familiarity of the one, and the implied suspicion of the other. She felt half inclined to quit the house immediately; but she conceived that by so doing, she would give color to Mrs. Baker's unworthy and uncalled for suspicions. She resolved, however, to seek an interview with the lady on the on the morrow, and signify her intention of resigning her situation. 
               Her bosom swelled with wounded pride, and tears came into her eyes, as she thought of the indignities which her self-sought poverty had subjected her to. She now began to discover-indeed, she had long since begun to discover-that poverty and independence were sworn enemies, and could not be brought to work together. She felt half inclined to return to her guardian, or at least to write to him, and endeavor to effect some compromise, for she knew that the gruff old seaman would be glad to receive her back again; but pride again interposed, and she resolved still to suffer and endure. 
               Her thoughts reverted to Charles Allen, and she could not help feeling that he at least should have made some exertion to discover her, little considering, woman like, that she had given him no possible opportunity of doing so. 
               While she was still deeply engaged in thought, there was a ring at the bell, and a visitor was ushered by the servant into the adjoining apartment. 
               It was a gentleman who had arrived, and to her great surprise and alarm Laura recognised the voice of Captain Martingale. He appeared to be an old acquaintance of Mrs. Baker's, who received him in the drawing-room; although Laura did not recollect that she had ever heard him mention her name. They entered into conversation, and through the partition Laura could hear every word that was spoken. 
               "This is indeed a pleasure, Captain Martingale," said the lady. "Why, let me see, it must be at least five years since I last saw you. How fortunate it was, that Mr. Baker met with you at the Astor House. Have you not been in New York since you paid us the last visit?" 
               "No," replied the captain, in his usual gruff manner; "I seldom leave Harpoon Lodge. It is full five years since I was so far away from home before." 
               "You haven't come to look for a wife, eh?" said the lady, jocosely. "You sailors are such sly fellows. Tell me, now, captain!" 
               "No, ma'am, I haven't come here to look for a wife," returned the captain, bluntly. "If I wanted a wife, I dare say I could find one without coming to New York in search of one; but I think Harpoon Lodge is just as quiet and comfortable without such an incumbrance. Present company excepted, ma'am, I never saw much good come of having women hanging around. I never liked to see a petticoat aboard my ship, and I don't care to have 'em troubling me ashore." 
               "Still the same plain-spoken man, I see, captain," said the lady; "I should positively be affronted, if I didn't know that you were joking." 
               "No, ma'am, I ain't joking," returned the captain; "I never yet met with any trouble, but there was a woman at the bottom of it; and it's all on account of a woman, that I've been dragged from Nantucket to this infernal city." 
               "Ha, ha!" replied the lady; "'honest confession is good for the soul,' as the old saying goes. I thought I should get at your secret. So you are caught at last!" 
               "No, ma'am; I was caught once, but I don't intend to be again, I assure you. I pestered myself, like an old fool, with a ward, who has lived with me for several years, and as soon as I really began to grow fond of her, and she had grown up to be a young woman, what does she do, but go and drown herself-on purpose to spite me, I believe." 
               How tumultuously Laura's heart beat, as she listened to this conversation. She would never have accepted the invitation; would never have entered the house, had she known that her guardian was an acquaintance of the family. She longed, now, to leave quietly, and return to her humble home, never to enter the house again; but a strong desire to listen to the remainder of the conversation, bound her to the spot. Fixing her attention, so as not to lose a word, she listened breathlessly. 
               "Dear me-dear me!" exclaimed Mrs. Baker; "you don't mean that, captain. Why, what could put such a horrible thought into the girl's head?" 
               "Love and nonsense, ma'am-love and nonsense; fiddle faddle; just what always does put such silly fancies into girls heads, and will do so to the end of time." 
               "Good gracious! You don't mean that the girl drowned herself for love?" 
               "No; but I mean that she went and got herself shipwrecked for love, like most women do-only after another fashion." 
               "Shipwrecked for love-drowned herself! Dear me, how very interesting!" said the lady. "Now, captain, you've come early; I don't expect any others of the company I have invited, for half an hour; do tell me the story. You can't think how much you have excited my curiosity. You may depend upon my keeping the secret." 
               "I may, eh?-as well depend upon the wind. However, there's no secret about it. I've come to New York to look after the girl, and, if I find her, to carry her home again." 
               "Why," said Mrs. Baker, in a tone of disappointment, "I thought you said the young lady had been drowned; and now you say, you've come to New York to seek for her." 
               "I thought she had been lost at sea, until a few days since. The vessel she sailed in, was lost; but a neighbor of mine, who lately visited New York, told me, on his return, that he could swear he saw the girl twice, in Broadway. But I've been here a week, and though I have made every inquiry, I can hear nothing of her." 
               "How strange!" said the lady-"how exceedingly romantic! Do tell me all about it, captain, for old acquaintance sake. Why, it must be better than a novel." 
               "There's not much to tell," replied the captain. "The young woman, when a mere infant, was brought out to me from England, under the care of one Henry Benson, then but a lad himself; but as promising a youth as ever I set eyes on. He brought a letter with him, from a gentleman whom I had known years before, no matter how or where-that has nothing to do with the story. The letter stated, that he wished me to become the guardian of the child, who, at the age of twenty-one, would have two thousand pounds of her own, which was already invested in American securities. The interest of this money, was to be expended for her support and education; and enclosed in the letter, was a miniature portrait of her mother, which I framed, and which was to be delivered to her, on the day when she became of age, and received her fortune. 
               "I hadn't much fancy for the job-still I had reasons, which I needn't explain, for accepting the guardianship of the child; besides, I thought she would, by and bye, when she grew older, be a companion for me at the Lodge. 
               "I sent her to a good school for some years, and then took her home, and engaged private teachers for her. I began to like the girl, as well as if she had been my own child-and every thing went as I wished. 
               "Meanwhile, young Benson, the sailor lad, who came with her from England, went several voyages to sea and got along famously. I took a fancy to the young man, and he frequently came to visit me at Nantucket-and by and bye, he saw the girl, and, like a fool, fell in love with her. However, he was just the fellow I should have chosen for her husband, and at last I set my heart upon his marrying her, and so I told her, when off she flew at a tangent, turned up her nose at him, said she didn't want to marry at all-just as if that wasn't the aim and end of every woman's existence. And when I, as her guardian, insisted upon obedience, and invited the youngster down to Nantucket purposely, that the affair might be settled at once, off she bolts, out of the window of the bedroom, where I had locked her up-gets a fisherman who used to take her out in his boat sometimes, and who was a bit of a favorite of hers, to lend her a hand, goes aboard a schooner in the bay that was going to sail for New York; and was away, before I or the lad Benson, knew the bird had flown from the cage. Well, ma'am, the schooner was wrecked, as we heard afterwards, and I thought the girl was lost, until I was told she had been seen in New York. I'm afraid, however, the man who told me was mistaken. Poor, dear girl," he added, after a pause; "I would give double her fortune out of my own pocket, if I could only find her." 
               Laura's heart beat more quickly, and the tears sprang to her eyes, as she heard her guardian thus feelingly express himself. Had he been alone, she would, actuated by the impulse of the moment, have made her presence known to him, and begging his forgiveness for the anxiety she had caused him, would have signified her willingness to return, only stipulating that she should not be forced to wed a man whom she abhorred. But Mrs. Baker was a stumbling block in her way; and her pride would not allow her to humble herself in the presence of such a woman. 
               "What a very remarkable story," said Mrs. Baker; "and the gentleman you speak of was, I suppose, her father?" 
               "No, ma'am, he was not; nor no relation to her," said the captain. 
               "And the young woman was born in England?" 
               "You're wrong again, ma'am, she was not born in England. She was born somewhere in the East Indies, and was coming to England, on her way to America, when the vessel was wrecked on the coast of Kent; and she and the gentleman I spoke of were the only persons saved. Everything was lost. It was lucky that the child's little fortune had been previously secured in America." 
               "Dear me! how very strange!" repeated Mrs. Baker; "but, now I think of it, captain, you have not told me her name?" 
               Now, Laura's heart beat so violently, that its pulsations were audible, and she felt faint with the violence of her emotions-still she listened intently, awaiting her guardian's reply. 
               "I have no objection to tell you her name, ma'am," said Captain Martingale; "for if she is living, you may assist me in discovering where she has hidden herself; but the truth is, I don't rightly know her name myself. It may be Allen, and it may, more like, be Hastings." 
               "Good gracious, captain!" exclaimed Mrs. Baker, "why the mystery is growing deeper and deeper. Well, I never heard the like!" 
               "Allen! Hastings!" mentally ejaculated Laura; "What strange mystery surrounds my birth?" Still she remained silent and listened. 
               "You women folks never will have patience to hear a story to its end without interrupting the narrator," said the captain, pettishly. "If you had waited patiently, I should have told you, that the name I gave her, and that she is known by, is Laura Denman." 
               "Laura Denman!" shrieked Mrs. Baker, and Laura's heart seemed to jump to her throat and threaten to stifle her-still she listened. 
               "Yes, ma'am, Laura Denman," replied the captain, "and a very good name, too, for anything I can see. I don't know why you should screech so, when you hear it. Laura, is the girl's christian name, ma'am, and Denman happens to be the name of the gentleman who brought her from India, and who died shortly after he was picked up from the wreck. I said her name might be Allen. I might have said more. I half fancy that she was in love with a young fellow named Allen, and that was the reason of her aversion to Benson. The young fellow, who I never allowed her to see, if I knew it, left Nantucket at the same time she did; for aught I know, in the same ship, and perhaps he, too, was lost. He has not since been heard of. Laura didn't know that there was at least a probability that he was her brother. I should have told her some day; but women are headstrong; they will have everything their own way, and a pretty mess they generally make of it." 
               "Captain Martingale," said Mrs. Baker, speaking in a tone of vast importance, "I can tell you something that will astonish you, quite as much as your strange story has astonished me." She lowered her voice a little above a whisper, as she added: "Laura Denman is now in this house. A total stranger to me, I engaged her as governess to my children. You will meet her to-night; or, if you please, I will call her now." 
               "Good God!" exclaimed the captain, "my poor lost Laura here? Take me to her at once, ma'am-tell me where I can find her-let me see her, alone." 
               But Laura did not hear this. The moment she had heard Mrs. Baker say that she was present in the house, she had arisen from her seat, and, wrapping her shawl around her, and snatching up her bonnet, which fortunately was in the parlor, she had quietly passed into the street, unseen by any one, and was now hastening home as rapidly as her feet could carry her over the ground. A strange variety of conflicting feelings agitated her breast; she felt utterly bewildered-entangled in a web of mystery, from which there appeared to be no escape. 
               "Charles Allen has left home! My name is perhaps Allen. Charles, perhaps, my brother! Oh, God!-no, that cannot, must not be. Hastings!-Denman!-what can be the meaning of all this." 
               Such thoughts as these, finding vent in occasional low mutterings, occupied her mind, as she passed rapidly along the streets towards her humble lodgings. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               FATHER AND SON. 
               WE left Charles Allen, at the close of a preceding chapter, at the moment when, in the person of the seeming chief or high priest, of a rude or almost unknown cluster of islands in the Pacific, he had recognized the old sailor, his supposed father, to search for whom had been the vague object of his resolve to go to sea, or, at least, had determined him to do so, after the occurrence of the circumstances which had caused him to leave Nantucket. 
               "My boy, my own brave boy!" exclaimed the old man, clasping the youth in his arms and hugging him to his bosom. 
               For some moments, neither uttered a word; while Adillah looked upon the strange scene with perfect bewilderment. Then old seaman gently released the young man from his embrace, and, gazing long and earnestly in his face, he murmured to himself. 
               "Yes, yes, it is her face; I could almost fancy I saw her before me. I knew it last night, but thought it was a dream; that a spell was upon me, that I would not-dared not break." 
               "And you are, indeed, my father?" said the youth. "And my mother-where is she? is she living?" 
               "She is dead, long ago," said the old sailor, the tears coursing rapidly down his furrowed cheeks. 
               Adillah wept in sympathy, although she knew not why; and Charles stood like one in a trance, hardly knowing whether he were awake or dreaming, so strange were the events which had befallen him in such rapid succession, during the past few hours. 
               "When and where did my mother die?" he at length inquired-"and you, my father, how came you here, and in this strange guise? and wherefore have we been so long separated from each other?" 
               "It is a long tale to tell, my son," replied the old man. "I never thought to see you again-no, nor the features of one of my own race. I have been a resident of this lonely island for many years-I know not how many, for I have long lost all record of time. But it must have been long, long, long since, for you were an infant when you were lost to me-drowned, as I feared. Providence has strangely, mysteriously brought us together again, after so many years of separation. It was a dreadful storm," continued the old man, muttering to himself, unconsciously. "I placed the child in the keeping of a stranger, in the hope of saving his young life, when I thought I was dying. I lived, and was told that he was drowned, and yet I never, never believed the child was dead." 
               "Tell me how these strange events occurred," repeated the young man: "all seems a mystery to me-I can scarcely believe that I am awake-that this strange meeting is not all a dream." 
               "Not now, not now," replied the old seaman; "I must retire to my hut. Go, my son, my long-lost boy, go and join Adillah. I must be alone to-day. To-night, I will tell you all. But stay," he added, in an agitated voice. "How came you here alone? None of the islanders know that you are here!" 
               "I fancy not," replied the youth; "I scarcely know how I reached the shore myself." 
               "But your ship! your messmates! where are they? They must have seen you land?" 
               As briefly as possible, the youth explained by what means he had been induced to leave his ship in the harbor of Mattao, and, in company with the mate, to endeavor to effect a landing on the smaller island, and how the adventure had terminated, as he feared, disastrously to his companion. 
               "Then Adillah has been seen?" exclaimed the old man, greatly alarmed-"my child! my child! my dear Adillah! I have found you, my son, only to lose her!" 
               "Adillah was seen, by the mate, years ago, when the ship was here before, and by him alone," said Charles, striving to comfort the old seaman, and quiet his alarm, though he knew not the cause of his distress; "and I fear," he continued, "poor Mr. Thorne was drowned last night, when the boat was seized by the natives." 
               "They did not see you swim ashore?" said the old man, anxiously. 
               "No, I believe not, or I scarcely think I should now be standing here." 
               "You must not be seen. It must not be known that you are here. Not yet-not yet," rejoined the old man; "but they will scarcely seek you here. None but Adillah and I reside on this island. Go, now, my boy; Adillah will be your guide. In the evening, meet me in the hut, and you shall know all that I can tell you." 
               He spoke a few words to Adillah in the native tongue, and, wringing the hand of the youth, and kissing the cheek of the girl, retired into the hut. 
               Charles-for by his baptismal name we must now designate him, in order to distinguish him from the old sailor-would gladly have wandered again down to the beach, for he was anxious with regard to the ship. Exciting as were the circumstances in which he found himself, he could not yet reconcile himself to the idea of becoming a prisoner on this lonely island. Adillah, however, led him in a different direction; she had become suddenly taciturn, and when he advanced in the direction of the shore, without uttering a word, she took him by the hand, and smilingly pointed to the woods, in the interior of the island. 
               "Why so, Adillah?" he asked; "I should like to see the ship, if possible-my shipmates will search for me; but I will go with you; perhaps, from yonder eminence, a clearer view may be obtained, than can be obtained from the beach." 
               Adillah, though she addressed the youth in his own language, appeared to find a difficulty in understanding it, unless he spoke slowly. English was evidently to her a foreign and unaccustomed tongue. It was not the language in which she was accustomed to think; and, unless one learns to think in a foreign language, it can never be fluently spoken. 
               She hesitated for some moments, and then said, in her pretty lisping accent: 
               "No-to the woods-we must go to the woods-there are many sweet spots there, where we can rest ourselves. There is a streamlet, where I sit for hours and watch the clear water, sparkling as it ripples over the pebbles; and there are plenty of fruits there, which we can eat when we are hungry." 
               "And why not go to the beach or to the hill, Adillah?" said the young man, gazing with admiration upon the beautiful features and the graceful form of the young girl, the rounded outlines of which were not concealed by any envious superabundant drapery. "Why should we seek the shade of the woods? a cool breeze blows from the sea; the sun, as yet, is not too warm. We have no need yet to seek shelter from his ardent beams." 
               "This island is tabooed," said the maiden gravely and reverently. "We should be seen, should we wander near the shore, and you would be killed by the islanders." 
               "And what then, pretty Adillah?" interrupted the young man, feeling his blood course more rapidly through his veins, as he witnessed the emotion betrayed by the lovely girl, as she spoke these last words. "What if I should be killed, Adillah?" 
                
               "I should be sorry." 
               "And why?" 
               "Because I would have no harm happen to any living thing, least of all to you." 
               "But you have not known me long, Adillah-only since yesterday. I am a stranger; not of your race. Why do you take such an interest in me?" 
               "I have only seen you since yesterday; but I have known you longs-very long-as long as I can remember. You have come to me in my dreams every night." 
               "Is it not wearisome for you to live alone with your father, on this small island?" said Charles. 
               "I know of no other land, but, such as I have heard my father speak of." 
               "And you have had no wish to visit any other?" 
               "Sometimes, but not often. I am not weary here." 
               "How do you employ your time?" 
               "I weave chaplets of flowers, and gather fruits for the temple, and I have my father's hut to take care of. I am never idle." 
               "And have you no lover, Adillah, to visit you sometimes-is there no favored youth from the other islands, who sometimes comes here?" 
               "No, no," exclaimed the girl, with an expression of impatience and disgust; "I have never seen any one to love, except in my dreams, till I saw you." 
               "You love me, then, Adillah?" said the youth, taking her hand. 
               "Oh, yes, very much-almost as much as I love my father." 
               "But your father is also my father, Adillah. We are brother and sister; I shall love you as a sister. Till to-day, I knew not that I had a sister." 
               They had reached the spot alluded to by the girl, and Charles sat himself down upon the grass, while Adillah busied herself in gathering a quantity of fruit, so ripe, tempting, and delicious to the eye, that an epicure might well have envied the repast she was preparing. Taking a gourd from a tree near by, she filled it with clear, sparkling water from the brook, and placed it beside the fruit which she had spread upon the ground before Charles, and, seating herself by his side, she invited him to partake of the Eden-like repast. 
               Charles needed no second invitation; so sweet a repast, spread by so fairy a hand, would have overcome the abstemiousness of an anchorite-and the youth was no anchorite-besides, the fruit was such as he had heard and read of, but had never seen before. He ate heartily, and thought he had never partaken of so delicious a meal. 
               "Now, pretty Adillah, tell me of your mother; you say you cannot recollect her-was she of your father's race, or a native of these islands?" 
               "She was the child of Hoolooloo, the King of Mattao," replied the girl. 
               "Then Hoolooloo is your grandfather?" 
               "My grandfather?" exclaimed Adillah, as if scarcely comprehending the meaning of the word-"Yes." 
               "You must be a favorite with Hoolooloo." 
               "A favorite?" 
               "Yes; he must love you very much." 
               "I have never spoken to him; I don't know that he loves me. I care not for him." 
               "Does he never visit you here?" 
               "Yes, often; he comes here to worship, every seven days, when the taboo is removed." 
               "To worship! Your father, then, is the priest?" 
               "Yes, they call him so. And I-I am the priestess of these islands." 
               Charles could not forbear a smile as he heard these words, so gravely spoken by the beautiful creature at his side, and the thought crossed his mind, how delightful it must be to worship at a shrine presided over by so fair a priestess. Then the strange thought presented itself, that this fair young girl must be indeed his sister, and half the romance immediately vanished. Then he thought of Laura-the fair girl, far, far distant, to whom he had plighted his troth-and wondered if she were still subjected to the persecutions of her guardian; or whether, wearied of these persecutions, and hearing nothing from him, she had wedded Benson. If so, we are sorry to say that he felt almost reconciled-provided Adillah had not been his sister-to taking up his abode, at least for a time, in this lone island. 
               Then he thought that Laura's affections would be all-enduring, in spite of any attempt to cause her to depart from her word, and he blamed himself for allowing his constancy to waver for a moment. He sank into a reverie, half waking, half dreaming, lulled by the soft music of the wind gently stirring the branches of the trees above and around him, and the soothing murmur of the stream as it flowed past at his feet. 
               Adillah, noticing his silence, thought he was sleeping. She formed an arbor above his head with some leafy branches, and, seated by his side, busied herself until the sun began to decline, with her customary occupation of weaving chaplets of sweet wild-flowers. 
               Allen had indulged in his reverie for hours, when he was aroused by the gentle touch of the maiden's hand. 
               "Come," she said; "see, the sun is going down behind the trees! It will soon sink deep below the waters of the ocean. Come-you have slept long. It will be dark by the time we reach my father's hut. He bade me bring you home when the shades of evening began to fall." 
               The young man arose from his recumbent posture, and, taking the hand of the young girl in his own, he suffered her to guide him, for he was a stranger to the intricacies of the wood, to the hut of the old seaman, which they had left in the morning. 
                
               Old Allen had prepared the evening meal ready against their arrival, and it was partaken of in silence. The old sailor appeared to be too full of thought to enter into conversation; and the young man, though glowing with curiosity, did not like to betray his impatience. Adillah was the most cheerful of the trio; but, even she was more reserved than usual-she had caught the contagion of thoughtful constraint from her companions; and, soon after the meal was concluded, she sought the privacy of her own chamber, and retired to rest. Then the old seaman drew the youth aside, and bidding him seat himself beside him on the couch which lined the inner walls of the hut, he related to him the following story, which, however, he prefaced by asking him his age. 
               "I shall be twenty years old next birth-day," replied the young man. 
               "Twenty years!-then for eighteen years have I been a resident of this dreary solitude," returned the old seaman; "but listen, and I will relate the story of your birth: 
               "Twenty-five years ago-it must be full that, since you are twenty years of age-I was a young man: older than you are now, it is true, but still young, for even now I am much younger than I seem. Hardship and exposure, more than age, have changed my hair from black to gray, and furrowed my cheek and brow; and my assimilation with the habits and customs of the savage people with whom I have lived so long, has wrought this change in my appearance that I little marked till now, but which, to your eyes, must give me more the aspect of a savage than a Christian man. But I am already diverging from my story. 
               "How did I begin? Ah! twenty-five years ago, I was a gay coast-guardsman, stationed with my comrades in one of the Martello towers that overlook the cliffs near Folkestone, in Kent. About a year before that, a new vicar had become the incumbent of the parsonage-house, which stood near the church on the brow of the cliff, and within full view of the tower in which I was stationed. He was a widower, and had been so for years, I believe; but he had a daughter Mary, to whom he was devotedly attached: in fact, he almost idolized her. She was then about eighteen years of age, and as lovely a girl as human eye ever gazed upon. She was in the habit of walking every day, in fine weather, on the cliff, and as she passed the coast-guardsmen, often accompanied by her father, every hat was doffed-more, I fancy, out of gallantry to the lady, than out of reverence to the clergyman. I was a petty officer, and frequently the vicar, then a fine, portly man of forty-five or fifty years of age, would stop and question me relative to the localities of the neighborhood, or beg me to lend him my spyglass for the young lady to look through, at the vessels passing to and fro in the channel, or at the opposite coast of France. He was a kindly-spoken gentleman, and a good man, I believe, but a little too haughty in his demeanor, perhaps in consequence of his being distantly connected with Lord R--, the lord of the manor, in whose gift was the 'living' of Folkestone Still, he was always pleasant and agreeable towards me, and so was the young lady. Beautiful as she was, and haughty as she appeared, too, she always had a friendly smile, and a pleasant word to say, when we met. I soon began to conceive the idea-for she often seemed purposely to put herself in my way-that she felt a more than ordinary interest in me. You may look surprised, my son," interpolated the old man-for Charles certainly was regarding him at this moment with a strange curiosity-"you may look surprised, that a young and beautiful girl, such as I have said was Mary Pearce, should deign to take an interest in me; but you forget that then I was but thirty years of age, and straight and handsome as you are now; and, in consequence of my being rated as a petty officer, was always neat and clean and tastily attired. Besides, I had received a good education for a man in my social position-far better than falls to the ordinary share of men-of-war's men. My father-your grandfather, my son-was, for many years, captain of a small sloop of his own, which traded between Margate and London, and he died, leaving my mother in very comfortable circumstances. She had educated me well, intending that I should fit myself for some good trade, or may be some profession, on shore-for she had a dread of my becoming a sailor. However, I was wild and reckless, and, after trying in vain to obtain her permission to go to sea, I ran away from home one day, and entered myself on board a man-of-war, then lying at anchor in the Downs. But, to resume the thread of my story: 
               "The intimacy between Mary Pearce and I continued to increase, and she would stand talking with me for half an hour at a time, when the vicar was not near her; but, though I was over head and ears in love with her, and guessed pretty shrewdly that she loved me, we never spoke about a matter so serious. 
               "One day I was standing in the doorway of the tower, when I saw Mary taking her usual stroll along the narrow path on the edge of the cliff which leads to Sandgate, and I immediately made some excuse to my messmates, and hurried to the cliff, amidst their jokes and jibes-for they guessed pretty well how the land lay-with the intention of meeting Mary on her return; but to my astonishment and dismay, when I reached the path, though I could see along it a good half mile, and Mary could not have walked that distance, during the time I had been coming the short distance from the tower, she was nowhere to be seen. 
               "The cliff was chalky and precipitous. It was as much as a coast-guardsman or a smuggler, used to all its crags and slippery abutments, could do to descend it, and I knew that the young lady would not dare attempt it; but, I knew likewise that she was very reckless, and often ventured too near the edge. I had often warned her of the danger of standing upon some jutting crag, which might in a moment give way, even with her light weight, and precipitate her upon the rocks beneath neath, or even into the sea, for in some places the cliff actually overhung the water, which dashed against it in a continuous spray, working caverns in its sides and often undermining it. I was certain that Mary must have fallen from the edge of the cliff-and with a sensation of horror, such as I never felt before-I ran along until I reached a spot where I knew the descent was possible, and almost flinging myself over the verge, I glanced fearfully along the precipitous sides of the cliff and down upon the beach below. 
               "Horror! I shudder now to think of it; my fears were too true; not a hundred yards from the place where I stood, I saw Mary, clinging with desperate clutch to the branches of a blackthorn bush, which grew upon an earthy crag, twenty feet or more below the edge of the precipice, stretching out horizontally from the almost perpendicular wall of cliff, while beneath, the sea foamed and dashed furiously against the base, as if eager for its quivering prey. I knew that if the poor young lady should relax her hold, her instant death was certain. 
               "Hastily I clambered to the summit, and waving my hat and handkerchief, roared lustily for assistance from the tower; and then dashing along to the spot, from which the young lady had fallen, regardless of my own safety-thinking of nothing but Mary's peril-I flung myself over the edge of the cliff, grasping at pieces of rock and straggling branches, until I gained the bush to which she was clinging. I found that she was insensible; but both her hands clutched the branches which sustained her, with the desperate, despairing, yet tenacious grasp of a drowning man. Holding with one hand the stoutest of the branches above me, I passed the other around her waist, when to my great alarm, her grasp became loosened from the sapling to which she had been clinging, and but for my opportune support, she would have fallen into the sea; for the cliff had been worn away by the water, and the ledge upon which the blackthorn grew overhung its base, by several yards. 
               "It was a desperate task to support her weight and my own, and to ascend, even by myself, was impossible. All that was left me, was to wait the arrival of assistance from the tower. I shall never forget the dreadful suspense of those few minutes, during which I literally hung suspended between air and water. I thought, that perhaps my messmates had not seen or heard me, and I knew that my hand could not much longer retain its grasp. My arm already felt as though it were tearing from its socket, and, horror of horrors! I saw that the bush was gradually loosening its roots from their slight hold on the ledge of rock. Great God! those three or four minutes-for I afterwards learned that but three or four minutes had elapsed from the moment I called for assistance and succor reached us-seemed to me to be hours, days, years, of mental anguish. I could not measure time. At last I heard the sound of voices, and then saw the well-known face of one of my messmates peeping over the precipice. They had guessed the cause of my alarm, and had come provided with ropes and ladders. An other moment, and a rope with a bowline knot tied at the end, was let down over a ladder, three or four rounds of which had been pushed over the edge of the cliff. One of the sailors laid along over the extremity of the ladder, and with some difficulty managed to swing the rope, so that the knot passed over Mary's feet and mine, and slipped up to our waists. It was then hauled taut by the sailors above. I loosened my hold, and we were drawn to the summit, I, myself, being by this time more dead than alive. 
               "I soon revived, but Mary still continued insensible. I despatched one of the sailors to the parsonage to inform the vicar of the nature of the accident which had befallen his daughter; while the others hastened to the tower to obtain such simple restoratives as we had on hand there. I was left alone with Mary; and before further assistance reached us she began to revive. Her eyes opened and closed again, and she murmured my name. I pressed her hand, and the pressure was faintly, feebly, yet distinctly returned. I had thought so before-from that moment I knew that I was loved. Some restoratives were now brought from the tower, and shortly afterwards the vicar arrived with assistance from the parsonage; but Mary, by that time, had perfectly recovered-although she still trembled nervously, as she thought of the peril she had been in-of the dreadful death she had so narrowly escaped. She threw herself into her father's arms, and sobbed upon his shoulder, while he almost devoured her with caresses. Presently she raised her head, and blushingly, with mingled smiles and tears, she took my hand, and presenting me to her father, called me her gallant preserver-the savior of her life. How my pulses leaped as she spoke, how swiftly the blood seemed to course through my veins. Fearful as had been the dangers through which I had passed-horrible as had been the mental anguish I had endured, I felt at that moment that I could willingly again pass through the same ordeal, to listen to a repetition of such eloquent and grateful praise from her lips. And her father!-the good man seemed almost inclined to fall down and worship me. He insisted that I should go home with him to the vicarage. I could not then-I dared not leave my post without obtaining permission from the lieutenant in command; but I knew that I could easily obtain that, and I promised to call in the evening. With this promise, the vicar and his daughter were obliged to be satisfied. The father pressed my hand warmly-Mary gave me a sweet smile, and they went home together. 
               "In the evening I called according to promise, and was as hospitably-and at any rate by Mary, ten times more kindly received, than if I had been the Bishop of the diocese. From that day the humble coast-guardsman, was a frequent and a welcome visitor at the parsonage. Time passed on, and Mary and I fell every day more deeply in love. We both knew that the vicar would be naturally unwilling that his only child should throw herself away by marrying a poor man-of-war's-man-notwithstanding he had saved that child's life; but he had by this time discovered that I had been well educated, and we hoped for the best. At any rate we pledged our mutual vows of affection; and then I told the vicar of the state of our hearts. I had expected that he would have been troubled, perhaps vexed; but I was not prepared for the torrent of wrath he launched out against me. He called me the tempter and betrayer of his child-taunted me with my low birth and social position-and even went so far as to wish that his daughter had fallen from the cliff and perished, ere this disgrace, as he termed it, should have fallen upon her. I made no reply, but turned upon my heel and left the vicarage. That evening I wrote to my mother-begged her forgiveness for my past undutiful conduct-promised future amendment-and expressed a desire that she would exert herself to obtain my release from the navy. I had yet a year to serve; but I knew that if an efficient substitute could be obtained, I could procure my discharge; and the old woman-God bless her, though she's dead many a year ago-had money to procure this. 
               "It is enough to say that a substitute was procured, and I was a free man. 
               "I then resolved some day to command a ship of my own; and when I attained that position, again to ask Mary's hand of her father-I studied navigation-I had already become a thorough practical seaman, and obtained a berth as mate of an Indiaman, I sailed two voyages in that grade, and then my poor mother dying, I inherited the property she left behind her, and found myself in the possession of what was to me considerable wealth. Believing myself to be fully equal to the responsibility, I purchased the larger share of a small vessel, which I and my partner fitted out for the India trade-I, of course, acting as captain-and when all this was arranged, and the vessel was nearly ready for sea, I went to Folkestone, saw the vicar, told him the altered state of my circumstances and formally requested his consent to wed his daughter. 
               "I forgot to say that, unknown to her father, Mary and I had corresponded regularly, during the two years that had elapsed since I had saved her life. 
               "On the occasion of this visit the vicar was more polite than he had been before, but he was only coldly civil. He listened patiently to me, expressed his pleasure at my success in life-said he should ever feel grateful to me, but he was sorry to say that he had other views with regard to his daughter-she could never be my wife. I had been prepared for this refusal, so had Mary. It was a false step to take, and this time I was her tempter, for I had persuaded her to elope with me, should her father still refuse his consent. 
               "She did so. We went to Southampton, and were married by special license. Then Mary wrote to the old gentleman, begging his forgiveness and permission to bring her husband home with her to receive his blessing. 
               "He sent us a letter, stating that he would not receive us, and that neither I nor his daughter should darken his doors again. 
               "Mary wept, but I endeavored to console her; and when the ship was ready for sea, she went on board with me, and we sailed for the East Indies. 
               "I remained there for two years, trading from one port to another, and there you, my son, were born. Mary Pearce was your mother. My poor, lost Mary!" 
               The old man stayed his narrative for a few moments, and, covering his face with his hands, seemed, from the convulsive heaving of his chest, to be inwardly weeping. Presently he resumed: 
               "My ship was lost in a heavy gale of wind on the coast of Borneo. Mary and her child were on board, and after every effort had been made to save the ship, and escape seemed hopeless, she placed the child-she placed you, my son, in my arms, and bade me make exertions to save myself. I thought I could save both you and her; I plunged overboard amidst the surf; the ship had already grounded on the reef, and I reached the shore in safety; but, before I could again get on board, after having left you in the care of a native woman; the vessel parted amidships, and became a total wreck. My poor Mary was lost! 
               "Perfectly distracted, I again reached the shore-by no effort of my own, for I was careless of life-and found that a tribe of Dyaks, the hostile natives of the interior, had been attracted to the sea-coast by the hope of plunder. They seized upon all who were fortunate, or unfortunate enough to escape the fury of the waves. I and several of the crew, and many of the peaceful natives of the coast, among the rest the woman who had received you from my arms, were carried as captives into the interior. 
               "For three months I was a prisoner, subjected to the severest treatment. I would not have worked-I would sooner have died-but they threatened mischief to you, if I shrunk from the painful duties they imposed upon me. 
               "At length Rajah Brooke attacked the Dyaks, urged thereto by their repeated outrages upon the inhabitants of the coast. They were routed, and I effected my escape, bringing you with me. Mr. James Brooke kindly furnished me with funds, and I sailed for Calcutta. I found that the insurance had been paid upon the ship, and I received a large sum of money. Thence I took passage to England, and almost immediately on my arrival there-having arranged my affairs, I resolved to seek my fortune in America. I sailed for Boston, still taking you with me, having previously transmitted my funds, retaining in my possession such documents as would enable me to obtain them on my arrival. But misfortune seemed determined to pursue me. The vessel in which I took my passage, was wrecked on the American coast, and some of the passengers and the crew seized the only boat that would float, and were about to quit the ship, leaving the remainder to their fate. Believing that all was hopeless, I entreated one of the passengers, whose name, if I rightly recollect, was Baxter, to take my child with him. He refused, for selfishness had seized upon all on board-each one was for his own individual safety. 
               "To tempt him, I placed in his hands, the documents I had brought with me relative to my property in America. 
               "'Take these,' I said, 'and save my child; I see that none will be saved but those who escape in this boat. If you reach the shore, obtain these funds in my name, and use them for my child's benefit, abstracting such a sum as shall be necessary for his support and education.' 
               "He seized the packet greedily, and I placed you in his arms. The boat left the sinking vessel, and I saw you no more from that hour till now, though contrary to all expectation, the gale moderated, and I, and several others were saved. 
               "But I was destitute, and so much bruised, and otherwise injured in consequence of the hardships I had undergone, that some time elapsed before I could reach New York. There I found that the funds I had placed in bank there, had been drawn by Mr. Baxter, in my name, and I could obtain no redress. A letter had been left for me, simply stating that my child had been drowned. In fact, I was treated as an imposter. There were so many persons of the name of Baxter, that to seek to find the individual one, who had received the money, was, to a man without means, quite impossible. 
               "Left destitute in New York, I engaged with a Captain Martingale as mate on board a vessel bound to the South seas, on a whaling voyage. On the passage, I learned from Captain Martingale that a lawyer of the name of Baxter, was living in Nantucket, his own native place, and he had in his charge an infant, over whom he claimed to have been placed as guardian till the child reached the age of twenty-one. From the description he gave me, I had no doubt that the child was my own, and that this Mr. Baxter was the man who had so grossly wronged me. I resolved to seek redress on my return, but I never did return; and long, long ago, I gave up all hopes of seeing home again." 
               The old sailor was silent, seemingly overpowered by a variety of conflicting emotions, and Charles, who had listened with the most absorbed interest to the narrative, observed-"It is this man Baxter, of whom you speak, who has professed to be my guardian; but he has never yet told me who were my parents, or how I became intrusted to his charge." 
               "Well had he reason to keep silent," said the old man. "He thinks me dead, but the day of vengeance may yet come, when he leasts expects it." 
               "But you have not yet told how you came to be here, in these distant, almost unknown islands, and in this strange guise," returned the youth, "and how you came to leave Captain Martingale; I know Captain Martingale, he is now a resident of Nantucket." 
               "It is late in the night, my son," replied the old man. "Another time, I will tell you the remainder of my strange story, let us now retire. My tale has awakened old recollections, long dormant in my breast. I can relate no more tonight." 
               "But are you sure that my mother perished?" 
               "I cannot doubt it, I never saw her after she placed you in my arms. If she was saved, she fell into the hands of the Dyaks, and met a fate worse than death." Perceiving that the old sailor was disinclined for further conversation, the youth retired to his couch, but he slept little that night, and his slumbers were disturbed by uneasy dreams, for the strange narrative of the old man had taken a strong hold of his imagination. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               THE MURDER AND THE SAVAGE WITNESS. 
               AGAIN we change the scene to the harbor in New Zealand, where we left Benson some time since. 
               After sleeping in his chair for an hour or two, Benson rose up and sought his cot, bidding his New Zealand wife to follow him; and it was not until he was dressing himself in the morning, that he discovered the loss of the locket. His first thought was that the girl had purloined it, and he charged her with the theft, but she stoutly denied having taken it, and Benson saw that she spoke the truth. 
               "That dog, Hastings, has stolen it," he muttered between his teeth. "The scoundrel! I have more than one score to settle with him, and by -- I'll settle them all at once." 
               Hastily attiring himself, he hurried on shore and walked to the hut that Hastings inhabited, and at once charged him with having taken the portrait, which was the miniature Captain Martingale had spoken of to Mrs. Baker, and had been given to Benson by the captain, when both supposed that Laura had lost her life in the wreck of the schooner-so much did it resemble Laura herself, that it might readily have been taken for her picture. 
               Hastings denied the charge; but Benson, who had come upon him unawares, caught sight of the black ribbon beneath his open shirt front. 
               "Scoundrel! thief! liar!" he exclaimed, seizing Hastings by the throat-"You have it now upon your person-disgorge your plunder at once, and take that," striking him a violent blow in the face, with his fist. "You have robbed me before this; I have long suspected you. Now I shall pay you off for all." 
               Hastings, though a much less powerful, was an active, sinewy man, and he twisted himself from Benson's grasp; and, irritated beyond endurance by the smart of the blow, and the sight of the blood which trickled down his face, he called Benson a pirate, and other opprobrious epithets, and said that he should yet live to see him hanged; but scarcely had the words passed his lips, ere the full extent of his rashness, and the danger of his threat burst upon the terrified wretch, and starting away, he attempted to save himself from a second blow by running. He was closely pursued by Benson, who had a heavy cutlass by his side, when he had come on shore, which he had drawn from its scabbard. The fury of madness had taken possession of the sailor's breast, and his murderous intent flashed from his eyes, as he sprang after his victim. But fear lent the unhappy man wings, for which the anger of the other was no match. The space between them, but a few yards at first, increased rapidly. Every moment added to Hastings' chance of escape, as the chance of meeting some European or friendly native increased with the extent of ground traversed in the direction of the bay; and it is most probable that he would have outstripped his pursuer, had he not encountered one of the creeping rattans, which grow in quantities on that shore, which, stretching across the path, and unnoticed in his hurry, tripped him up, and before he could recover his legs, Benson was upon him. 
               A prayer for mercy, and a howl of maddened fear rang alike unheeded on the air of the lonely forest land. The blow aimed at the head, missing the skull, sank deep into the back of the neck, and severing the carotid artery, destroyed life immediately, and an expression of hideous triumph burst from the lips of the murderer, as the lifeless corpse rolled at his feet; then, hastily securing the bauble, for the purpose of regaining which, the dreadful deed had been committed, he stood still, glaring like a wild beast around him, for his rage yet overpowered every other emotion. 
               "Stopped your chattering, my boy," said he, with a diabolical sneer, as the last quiver settled into the stillness of death, upon the limbs of his victim. "Stopped your chattering," repeated he, as if to reconcile himself to the act by repeating and repeating the advantage gained by it. "Inform upon me-see me hanged yet. Ha, ha!-dead dogs don't bark. Hollo!-what's that?"-and he looked eagerly around, fearfully, and yet savagely, for already the awful fecundity of crime, the fruitful parent of many more of a grim, family likeness, was at its terrible work within him; he heard, or fancied he heard, a rustling in the bushes, and grasping his cutlass with a firmer hand, he looked around and trembled, but was ready to slay once more. 
               The largest wild animal in New Zealand is a common rat; such a one might have stirred among the bushes. He cast anxious glances around in every direction; nothing met his view-there was not a sound to be heard. Alone with the dead, the undiscovered slayer had nought to fear from the hand of man; there was none to suspect, none to accuse, none to testify, none to doom. Man was, and must remain, voiceless and unavenging; true, the blood of the murdered wretch cried aloud for vengeance, but its accents were not heard on earth; they had already reached their fitting tribunal, and were silent, recorded, unchangeable and eternal. 
               All danger seemed quelled with the life that was just trampled out, but a shadow passed over the strong man's limbs, and a cold sweat broke out over his iron frame from head to foot; already the small, still voice whispered in his ear, and he dared not answer. 
               For ten minutes he stood with his arms folded, looking fixedly upon his victim. It is not immediately that the conviction of a fact-of a deed done, and not to be recalled; of a change wrought, that cannot be restored; of a soul parted that returns no more-establishes itself in the mind; the heart rebels against the head, and will not admit, for awhile, the conviction against which its own feelings revolt; the mind, at first, rejects what the perception admits, but this cannot last long; the stern reality pursues its course, and pushes hope and imagination and doubt-aye, fear, and maddening sorrows, and late repentance, alike, roughly aside-and we awake to a full consciousness of the evil that has been done. 
               The spot where the murder had taken place, was close to what, in that thinly inhabited country, was considered a much frequented path, if path it could be called, which was merely a track through a forest, rather marked by the breaking off of the lower branches of the wood, and the trampling of men's feet, than traced or constructed by men's hands; such as it was, however, it was too public a place in which to leave the body, and Benson accordingly looked round for a place to hide it in, and for some time looked in vain. 
               At last he dragged the body to a copse about fifty yards distant, where the brushwood was unusually thick, hoping that in the luxuriance of the vegetation he might find a tolerable hiding-place; nor was he altogether disappointed; with some labor he succeeded in forcing it into the centre of a mass of underwood, and lacing the boughs over it, and adding some fresh ones that he lopped off with his cutlass to screen it yet more effectually, he walked gloomily away, never once looking behind him. 
               But he left not the body alone, for scarcely had the murderer departed from the spot, and disappeared in the distance, or rather in the thickness of the forest, when a native emerged cautiously from a place of concealment, from which he had watched the whole course of the murder, and stealthily approaching the corpse, eyed it with a wolfish expression, that sat strangely and horribly on the countenance of a human creature. He carried the never-failing merai-he grinned as he twisted the dead man's hair round his fingers, and the next instant the severed head remained in his hand. Nor did the swarthy savage rest here-but we shall pursue the theme no longer; the tempest of human passion is awful enough; but the fiendishness of the cannibal is unfit for human eye or ear. 
               Benson returned to his ship, nor did any one imagine that anything out of the usual course of events had occurred. Moody, variable and strange, as his manner often was, a little more moodiness attracted no notice. Hastings, to be sure, was missed, and some of the crew indulged in speculation upon his fate, for they knew he was employed by their captain for the purpose mentioned in a preceding chapter. Some said he had bolted, as they termed it; but, on inquiring, it was found that he owed nobody any money, so that supposition was discarded. Some said he had been murdered by the natives, which was likely enough, and Benson encouraged the idea; while others thought he had drowned himself in a fit of delirium tremens, which seemed also likely enough; and yet others thought he might have been given up by some of the chiefs to some man-of-war, which had visited the Bay of Islands, as an escaped convict, an event also probable. 
               But the main point having been ascertained, that he owed no money among the ship's crew, the sailors troubled themselves but little about his fate, and he might as well have never existed, for any recollection that remained of him, among his late companions, save only in the breast of one, to whom that recollection was already a hell. 
               Time wore on, and everyday the space in the hold became less, as flax and timber were taken on board; and, at last, the other portion of the cargo, to which we have already alluded, was stowed away, a portion less disgraceful to the cupidity of the trader who dealt in, than to the indulgence of a depraved and unnatural curiosity in the purchasers-the highly intellectual lectual, refined, Christian purchasers-of a civilized community, in whose eyes a fellow-creature's head ranks with a china vase or a plaster monster. 
               The dried heads were brought on board, and carefully packed in deal boxes, with sawdust and other fitting material. 
               The vessel sailed, and Benson found no difficulty in disposing of his cargo in Australia and the East Indian Islands; and then, pursued by remorse, yet thoroughly reckless, he shaped his course towards the Pacific Ocean, with the intention of turning pirate in good earnest, and intercepting some of the merchantmen laden with specie from the Peruvian and Chilian coasts. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               THE OLD SAILOR'S STORY. 
               OLD ALLEN had but partly told his strangely romantic story to his son, when at the close of a preceding chapter we left him, to follow the fortunes of other characters who figure in our story. 
               Some days elapsed before the remaining portion was told; for the period of one of the native festivals came round, and Charles was solemnly warned, both by old Allen and Adillah, that his life depended upon his concealment. Instant death would be his fate, if the islanders discovered that the sacredness of the taboo, with which the island was invested, were desecrated by a stranger; and, that stranger one of another race. 
               Charles was secreted in a natural cave, at the opposite extremity of the island, to that inhabited by the old seaman and the young maiden; and it was only at night, after the ceremonies of the day were over, that Adillah came to bring him food and water. 
               It may readily be imagined that the position of the youth was irksome enough. He knew that the ship had been on the point of sailing, at the time he and the mate had started on their Quixotic adventure; and he had no doubt that she had left the bay. He accounted for the fact, as he imagined that no search had been made for him, by supposing that the mate had been drowned, or killed by the natives; and Captain Peters had believed the boat to have been lost, or perhaps had recovered the boat, and finding Silas Thorne and himself missing, had given them up for lost. 
               It was indeed a melancholy prospect that lay before him. A prisoner, perhaps for life, on this small unknown island. The thought that he had discovered the old seaman, Allen, and discovered him too, to be his father-notwithstanding this had once been the great desire of his life-did not serve to counter-balance the misfortune to himself that discovery had involved; and during his three days' solitude, he had ample time to brood over his sorrows, and to think till his heart ached and his brain grew dizzy, of home and the friends-especially of the one friend, dearer than all-that he had left behind him, perhaps forever. Was this to be the end of his once buoyant hopes, and ambitious aspirations? Had he left home and love, avoiding perhaps an imaginary evil, to fall upon a lot so hopeless as this? It was, indeed, avoiding the rocks of Scylla, to lose himself in the whirlpool of Charybdis. 
               The nightly advent of Adillah was a relief to him, and he counted the minutes as hours, when the shadows of night began to fall, until he heard her light step, and listened to her gentle voice; but Adillah herself had grown taciturn, and her words were few and reserved. It seemed as if she were afraid to converse as she had done before, and though she spoke kindly as ever, some weighty sorrow appeared to have depressed her spirits. He asked her for news of the ship-she scarcely could be made to understand him; but at length she told how she had heard some of the islanders say that the big canoe, that had floated for many days on the waters opposite Mattao, had gone the day before the sacred feast, and although the young man had anticipated this, when the news was told him he felt that his trouble was almost too great to endure. His only hope had failed him. It was as he had surmised, yet wished, against reason, to doubt. Captain Peters had sailed the day after he had left the vessel with the mate. Never again, perhaps, might the keel of a ship plow those lonely waters. 
                
               At last Adillah was more communicative. It was on the evening of the third day of his dreary confinement, that she said: 
               "The chiefs have gone back to Mattao, the old king Hoolooloo is the only one left; he will leave to-night, and you will be safe then, they will not return for many days. To-morrow, when the sun rises, I shall come hither and guide you to my father's hut-shall you not be glad?" 
               A sigh escaped from the lips of the young man. 
               "Ah, you are not happy," said Adillah, seating herself beside him, and placing her small soft hand in his. 
               "How can I be happy, Adillah, thus to be forever shut out from home, and the friends I have left behind me?" 
               The young girl did not seem to understand him, she was unable to enter into his feelings, although she evidently sympathised with his distress. 
               "I will be your friend," she said, "and my father will be your father. We shall be very happy. I was always happy before you came, when I was alone, although I used to wish for something I cannot explain, and to dream of I knew not what, for it was like the shadow of the cloud now passing across the moon. It assumed various forms, misty and indistinct, yet when I saw you the shadow was embodied, but then I knew and felt what I had dreamed of." 
               "Had you no playmates when you were a little child, Adillah?" asked Charles, charmed out of his abstraction by the touching tones of the girl's voice, the artlessness of her manner, and the simplicity of her language; for she spoke not as we have placed the words in her mouth; but in that pretty, lisping way in which young girls give utterance to their thoughts, when the language in which they speak is unfamiliar to their tongue. 
               "Yes," replied Adillah. "Yes, when I was a little, little girl, so high," and she raised her head to the height of four feet from the ground. "Then I used to play with the daughters of the chiefs; but when my father came here to Ooleah, then I had no one any more to play with me." 
               "Why not, Adillah?" asked Charles. 
               The taboo was placed upon the island, and upon my father and I," said the girl seriously, and in a tone of voice, that had in its accents something partaking alike of fear and mystery. 
               Charles did not reply, and Adillah, after a brief silence, continued: 
               "My father will be waiting for me, and I must go to him. Sleep to-night, and at sunrise to-morrow I will be here." 
               "And your father, will he come with you?" 
               "No; after these feasts he is too fatigued. He needs much rest." 
               "But I shall see him to-morrow?" 
               "Oh, yes. He much wishes to see you and talk to you again." 
               "Adillah, do you know what he told me?" 
               "No, he spoke not of it to me; but he said some day I should know all." 
               "Good-bye, then, to-night, pretty Adillah," replied the youth, observing that the young girl was anxious to depart. "Will you not give me a kiss before you go!" 
               Innocently, artlessly, Adillah placed her hands upon the young man's shoulders, and raising her light slender form on tiptoe, placed her lips to his. 
               Charles repeated the kiss again and again, and clasped the yielding form of the girl in his arms. 
               "If the pale moon had given sufficient light, a burning blush might have been observed upon the cheeks of the young girl; flushing through her clear olive skin, and spreading until it crimsoned her neck and bosom. It was not a blush of shame, for Adillah knew not, nor needed to know what shame was-nor was it a flush of anger, for she was too gentle to be angry without cause. It was a new sensation that she experienced; then for the first time, partly of pleasure, but of pleasure not wholly unmixed with another sensation, which was not altogether one of gladness; and which to her, at least, was indefinable. In a moment she bounded away, and her light step was heard rustling the dry leaves as she tripped along, gently as if they were merely rustled by the passing zephyr, or the touch of some bird of the forest moving amongst them in search of its food. 
               And Allen-a strange thought crossed his mind, as he listened to the receding sound of her footsteps. 
               "She cannot be my sister," he said, after a pause, and then his thoughts flew far, far away, from that sunny but lonely isle, to another island, bleak and dreary, far distant across many thousand miles of ocean, but every ragged rock of which was, he felt at that moment, inexpressively dear, for there dwelt many friends, and there dwelt one dearer than all friends; dearer than life to him. He reproached himself for forgetting her one moment, in the smiles of another; and then he muttered again, "She must be my sister!" 
               The bright morning came at last, and the sunbeams, shining into the cave, awakened Charles from a dream, in which he fancied he was wandering on the beach of Nantucket with Laura. He felt a light hand laid on his shoulder. "Laura!" he said, starting up, and the vision fled, and he saw Adillah bending over him, smiling sweetly, and her bosom heaving quickly with the haste she had made to reach the cave by sunrise, and the fresh morning dew glistening like diamond drops amidst her dark, glossy hair. 
               The youth could not disguise the admiration with which he gazed upon her. He thought he had never seen a creature so lovely; and again the same crimson flush, that might have been observed the night before, overspread the young girl's face, but only for a moment. Then she laughed merrily, seemingly at the earnestness of the young man's gaze and said: 
                
               "Come, come home with me; my father bade me come for you; he is waiting to see you." 
               And Charles rose from the simple couch of dried and fragrant leaves upon which he had been lying, and, taking the maiden's hand in his, together they returned, chatting gaily, to old Allen's hut, on the opposite side of the small island. 
               The old seaman was waiting outside the hut for the young man, and he advanced to meet him as he and Adillah emerged from the thick copse which surrounded the clearing, in the midst of which the solitary hut was located. He embraced the youth tenderly, and then kissing his daughter, bade them follow him into the hut. 
               The simple morning meal had been prepared by Adillah's hands, before she had set out on her early walk; and they seated themselves and partook heartily of the ripe fruits and dried fish. Charles, however, could not help observing that the old man looked weary, as though he had passed through some unwonted toil, illy suited to one of his years, and he recollected the words of Adillah, spoken on the previous evening. 
               When the meal was finished, old Allen left his daughter in the hut to set it in order and remove the remains of the simple repast; and bidding Charles follow him, he walked out into the clearing and seated himself on a rude bench beneath the shade of a group of bread-fruit trees. Charles took a seat by his side, and the old man began: 
               "I left off in the midst of my story, the other night, after telling you that while sailing as mate with Captain Martingale, I learned that a Mr. Baxter lived in Nantucket, who had a child under his care answering to the description I had given of you-" 
               "And you promised to tell me how you came to be so singularly placed on this lone island," interrupted the youth. 
               "Aye, my son," replied the old seaman; "I had well nigh forgotten the point at which I stopped in my story. 
               "I shipped as mate with Captain Martingale, to go on a whaling voyage to the Pacific. It was not a berth that I would have chosen, had a choice been given me, for I had never been on board a whaler, and knew nothing of the trade. Neither, perhaps, would Captain Martingale have engaged me, had any choice been left him; he would rather have had a man for his chief officer, who knew more about the business he was to be employed in, than I did; but sailors were scarce at the time, and it was difficult to find officers who had any knowledge of navigation; so I was readily shipped, and soon became quite reconciled to the berth. Captain Martingale was very kind, in his way, for he soon found out that I was not only a skillful seaman, but a good navigator, and he promised on our return to take me with him to Nantucket in order that I might see this man Baxter and the child. 
               "All went well for the space of a year. We had been tolerably successful, and had already three tiers of barrels packed in the hold, when we called at the Sandwich Islands for refreshments, and after remaining there a week, sailed westward, having been told that whales had been very plenty in that direction. 
               "I think, as nearly as I can recollect now, it must have been about a fortnight after we left Honolulu, that we sighted Smith's Island. Up to this time we had not fallen in with any fish, and we were beginning to think that we had been wrongly informed, when one morning the welcome cry, 'Blows! ah, blows!' was shouted from the mast head. 
               "In a moment, all was activity. My watch had just been relieved, and I had my foot on the companion ladder, to go below to the cabin, when the shout was heard. I was on deck again in a trice; there, sure enough, right abeam to leeward, was as fine a 'school' of whales, as ever I had seen. 
               "All hands were called. The ship's head was put a couple of points more off, in order that we might edge a little nearer to the 'school,' while the boats and tackle were preparing; and when all was ready, the fish were not more than half a mile distant, gamboling in the water, rolling over each other, and sporting in all directions, apparently unconscious of the near approach of a deadly enemy, and heedless of the danger that was impending. The boats were lowered, and before night, we had captured and 'fleshed' four large whales. 
               "It was a glorious day's work, and we ought to have been satisfied; but after sunset, I espied a fine young whale, floating near the ship, seemingly asleep, and as one of the boats was still alongside, I jumped on board with two others, and we pulled towards him, intending to spear him as he lay sleeping. 
               "We reached him without disturbing him, and I plunged the spear, fast to a line, into his side. In a moment, he plunged, causing a shock that nearly upset the boat. 
               "We let the line run, and he soon came up again to breathe. I held a second spear in my hand, ready to strike, but he was too far off: and away he started, taking the boat in tow, at a tremendous speed. We hailed the ship, to send a second boat, but the crew were all so busy with the blubber they had secured, that probably we had not been seen to quit the vessel's side. At any rate, there was no response to our hail; and as it was growing dark, we soon lost sight of the ship. In our hurry, we had left the vessel without being provided even with a knife, and by some mischance, the axe which belonged to the boat, was missing. To cut the line, was therefore impossible, and the whale in its rapid flight, kept it as taut as a crowbar. All we could do, was to wait, in hopes that the whale would lessen his speed, and enable us to unbend the end of the line; but the wound made by the spear-though the fish could not extricate himself, could not have touched any vital part, for we must have passed over miles, and there was no diminution in his speed. 
               "At last, the line relaxed, and we managed to cast it adrift. It must then have been full midnight, and there we were, alone in the boat, in the middle of the Pacific, in its most unfrequented part, without food or water. We lay still all night, anxiously looking for daylight, in hopes that we might see the ship; but daylight came at last; and though we strained our eyes to the utmost, the wide horizon was unbroken by a single dark object. Water around us, sky above us, and no hope of human aid. Could any situation be more deplorable? 
               "As the day drew on, and the sun began to gain power, we felt the pangs of thirst increased in their intensity, by the knowledge that we had no means of relieving them. We hoped against hope, that the ship would heave in sight, or that some other vessel would fall in with us, but in vain; night came on, and our case began to appear desperate. We passed through a night of agony, mental and physical, and when day again dawned, the pangs of hunger were added to those of thirst; but the latter were still the most intense. 
               "Another day, and no relief-no hopes of assistance. At first, we had pulled the boat at intervals, in different directions, not with any special aim in view, but for the sake of exerting ourselves, and thus in some degree, diverting our thoughts from the horrors of our situation; but towards the close of the second day, we ceased to do this; the least action became irksome to us, and we fell into a sort of stupor, sitting with our heads resting in our hands, and our elbows upon our knees, without uttering a word to each other. I still maintained, however, a show of authority, and knowing that it was requisite, that some sort of a lookout should be kept, I insisted that we should take turns in watching, two hours each, as near as we could guess the time, for I had left my watch on board the ship. 
               "This was kept with tolerable regularity throughout the night and the next day, after that, my unfortunate comrades refused to exert themselves, and sneered at my assumption of authority. I still feeling the necessity of keeping watch, endeavored to rouse myself, as much as possible, but, at last, I too gave in, and when the fourth morning of our dreary solitude dawned upon us, I was prostrate as the others. We sat still, stern, and silent, for hours and hours, without exchanging even one word or sign. We were brooding over our hopeless fate, and almost maddened by this time, with hunger and thirst. It appeared that we were doomed to remain in the boat, exposed to the fierce heats of the sun, day by day, and to the chill air of the night, till we perished by famine-the most frightful shape, in which death could appear to us. Towards the close of the fourth day, after I had sat for hours silent, I addressed some words to one of my companions, in misery. Good God! was it my own voice I heard? I was frightened at its tones; they were so changed, so unearthly! The sailor whom I addressed, raised his head to answer me, as I believe, for his lips moved, but his parched tongue refused to give utterance to his words, and oh! his face-it was ghastly, demoniac, horrible to look upon. It was more the face of a corpse, endowed with galvanic animation, than that of a human being. I should not have known the man, had I met him on board the ship. Again I fell into a sort of lethargic stupor, in which, I fancied that food of all kinds was spread before me, but when I attempted greedily to devour it, it vanished away. 
               "Then I thought I was floating on a lake of pure, limpid water, but I could not swallow a drop; it turned to molten lead, as soon as it passed my lips. Amidst these tantalizing fantasies, there were gleams of consciousness, during which I felt all the horror of my situation. I knew not what were the thoughts of the others, at those times; but I will confess, that it was my intention to prolong my existence, by the only means that seemed likely to occur, by eating the flesh of either one of my companions, whose life might terminate before my own. But if this thought did occur to them, they did not communicate it, nor did I. 
               "We had chewed canvas, the pieces of lead that were attached to the lines in the boat, and even the leather of our shoes. One of my shoes-in my weakness, I let fall from my hands into the water, and I burst into tears, as I saw it sink; and those tears! they were indeed, tears of agony! they scalded my face, as they rolled down my cheeks, as though they had been drops of scalding water. I can give very little account of what happened after this; for, although but four days had elapsed since we had left the ship, our senses as well as our bodies became, as it were, benumbed. The pangs of thirst remained, but the sensation of hunger, which, during the fourth day, overpowered that of thirst, was in its turn overcome by that of weakness, and I lost all note of time; still, I have a faint recollection of the alternate coming of day and night, and I believe we must have been in the boat several days. I have heard that no person can exist for ten days without food; but, I believe more than ten days elapsed between the period of my quitting the vessel's side and that when food again passed my lips, for I cannot call the sustenance I drew from the chewed canvas and leather, food. 
               "I, in my few moments of consciousness, feared that, as the agonies of death approached, madness would ensue-that we should tear the flesh from our bones, and mangle each other like wild beasts in the fury of desperation; but nothing of the kind occurred; all was a blank; a chaos of the brain; dark, drear, moody inanity. 
               "I was roused from a torpor, which perhaps would have ushered in death, by a shock and a dull sensation of pain. I opened my eyes, and found myself lying on a gravelly beach, and the blood streaming from my arm, which had been severely cut. I greedily placed my lips to the wound and sucked in the crimson stream, and this revolting sustenance-my own blood-partially revived me. But my mind was in a state of bewilderment; I had no thought for some time of my condition, or of what had befallen me or my companions. A strange idea possessed me, that I had died and awakened to life in another world. After some time, however, my senses became partially restored, and I heard the sound of water trickling near me. Never was the sound of music so sweet. I looked up and saw, close by me, a small stream falling over a rock. I crawled to it and drank freely. It was the most delightful draught I ever tasted. I felt inconceivably refreshed, and, sitting up, I looked around for food. Plantains and breadfruit were growing around me in abundance. I ate of both, sparingly; for, though it may scarcely be credited, I did not feel very hungry-probably on account of my weakness-and I knew that, after having been without food for so long a time, a surfeit would endanger my life; and I ate of the food, raw as it was, because I had no means to prepare it. After this I fell asleep; for, strange to say, as yet, I had given no thought towards my hapless companions. 
               "I awoke with griping pains in my stomach and sensations of nausea; and, sitting up, I vomited freely. This sickness was the effect, no doubt, of the raw and unaccustomed food in my weak stomach; but I soon felt relief, and rising up, I walked, or rather staggered, further from the beach among the brushwood and trees that grew to within a few yards of the shore. I soon found bananas, growing in great abundance, and fully ripe. Of this more congenial food I ate sparingly, and again sat down to rest. Then, for the first time, came upon me the full recollection of the misfortune that had befallen me and my unfortunate fellow-sufferers-I wept-and kneeling, thanked God for having spared my life. 
               "I wandered back to the beach in the hope of finding my companions. I found them dead, lying on the beach partly covered by the water and much bruised by the rocks; the boat, too, was turned bottom up, and high and dry on the shore. 
               "I conjectured that it had been drawn on shore by the current while we were in a state of insensibility, and dashed upon the beach. 
               "It was a shocking sight to see my comrades lying dead, and I turned away in horror, for I was too weak to drag the bodies out of the water, and I could not bear to remain by them. 
               "It began to grow dark, and I bethought me of the necessity of finding a place to rest in. But I knew not where to seek it, and at last I resolved to clamber up a tree, and fixing myself firmly among its leafy branches, to endeavor to obtain the repose I so much needed; bul first I ate some more of the bananas, and took a second draught from the streamlet. It was with difficulty, in my weakened condition that I managed to climb to my aerial resting place, although I had chosen one of the lowest and most accessible trees I could find. But I succeeded, after several efforts, and soon fell asleep and slept soundly till daylight. 
               "Descending from the tree in the morning, my first thought was to visit the spot where I had left the dead bodies of my companions the day before. I readily found them; they had been washed farther on to the beach, and were now almost out of the water. Decomposition had already begun to take place, and I resolved to bury them in the sand; but first of all, I returned to the wood and broke my fast with bananas and drank from the refreshing stream. It took me the greater part of the day to inter the dead bodies, for I was very weak; and although the sand was light, I had nothing but one of the thwarts of the whale-boat to serve for a shovel, and the water flowed into the hole in the sand almost as fast as I dug it; but at last the melancholy task was completed, and I left the spot, and betaking myself to the wood to rest, I again partook of the fruit and water. 
               "All this time I had seen no signs of inhabitants; and I came to the conclusion that there were none on the island. What island I had been cast upon, of course I knew not; but I conjectured it was one of the Melville group. I would willingly have made a fire and cooked some of the bread-fruit and plantains, for I was afraid to eat them raw again. I had seen the natives of some of the islands produce fire by rubbing two dry sticks rapidly together, and I hoped to do so after the same fashion; but after trying for half a day, till my weary arms refused to labor any longer, I was compelled to give up the effort in despair. I suppose I was not sufficiently expert, having never before tried to produce the effect. 
               "When I buried my poor comrades, I had stripped off their clothing. It was of no further use to them, poor fellows! and I thought it might be of some service to me. I had rolled it up and placed it in a cleft of a decayed trunk. 
               "The greater portion of two days I expended in vain repetitions of my efforts to produce fire, and at last I gave it up in despair. I had recovered a good deal of my former strength, and I thought I would endeavor to explore the island, of which it appeared cruel fate had made me the sole inhabitant, and taking the bundle of clothing from the cleft, I wandered into the wood. I was afraid if I left it behind, I might perchance lose myself, and be unable to find it again. For the first time, the idea possessed me to search the pockets of the canvas trowsers that my poor companions had worn. 
               "I did so, but found only a ball of tarred twine and a small tin box, which, upon opening, I discovered to contain lucifer matches, which had not been dampened by the water, the box having been water-tight." 
               "That must, indeed, have been a happy discovery," interrupted Charles, speaking for the first time since the old seaman had commenced his narrative, so much had be been interested in the story. 
               "It was as you say, my son, a lucky discovery at the time," replied the old man; "but it was the source of my future misfortunes, as you will hear. Probably but for that discovery, I might long since have been restored to the blessings and comforts of civilized life." 
               The old man continued his narrative: 
               "I at once," said he, "collected a quantity of dried leaves and sticks, and striking a light, set fire to them. In a few moments they were in a blaze, and I enjoyed the sight of a good fire and looked forward to its warmth at night; for, though the sun was intensely hot during the day, the nights were uncomfortably fortably cool, and my clothing was but scant. For the time being, however, I contented myself with plucking some of the bread-fruit and plantains, and cooking a sufficiency to satisfy my present appetite and to supply my wants during the remainder of the day. 
               "I found the island to be very limited in its extent, but very fertile, abounding in bread-fruit, bananas and plantains; and, what delighted me very much, I found that the shores of the further extremity abounded in cocoanut trees, laden with their wholesome fruit; but I saw no sign of human being or of beast. There were some few birds, and they appeared to be the only living creatures, besides myself, on the island. 
               "Finding no hope of escape left me-for the boat's bottom was staved in-and had it not been, I knew not where to have gone with it-I had nothing for it but to make myself as comfortable as possible in my wretched condition, and to thank God that it was no worse. I might have been cast on an island where there was not even the fruit and water so abundant there. 
               "In order to husband my matches, I determined to make a fire and keep it constantly burning, and I set myself to work to build a house or hut, making an indented rock, near the shore, serve for the back and roof, and filling in the sides and front with branches of trees. In this way I managed, after a long trial and many failures, to secure, at least a place of shelter from the sun and the night-dews; and after a time, by making an artificial pond, into which shoals of the smaller fish on the coast would enter when the tide was high, I succeeded, by means of a net made out of the ball of tarred twine I have already mentioned, to procure myself occasionally a mess of fish. These and the bananas, bread-fruit, cocoa-nuts and plantains, constituted my sole subsistence. I would have given worlds, had I possessed them, for a pipe and tobacco, but that luxury was unattainable. 
               "I fancy I must have lived this solitary life for six months, at least; and had begun to think, that on that lone island I was doomed to end my days; but such was not to be the case. One morning I was awakened from my slumbers by the sound of men's voices. I was alarmed, and yet pleased beyond measure. I was in hopes they might be Europeans, and I feared they were savages. At all events, if they seemed friendly, I resolved to make my presence on the island known to them. I rose from my couch of leaves, and reconnoitered them from my dwelling-place. They were islanders-apparently of the Sandwich island race, from the peculiarity of the tatoo marks that adorned their naked bodies. They were looking with signs of astonishment at the remains of the boat, now reduced to a few boards, dried almost to tinder by the sun, and at the fire burning before my dwelling. The dwelling itself they had not noticed, for I had taken the precaution of concealing it, in anticipation of some such a visit as this. 
               "Two large canoes were pulled up on the beach, which had, doubtless, brought them to the island, to which they appeared to have come for the purpose of observing some religious ceremony, to judge from their singular actions. I watched them for a long time; they seemed to have, for the time being, diverted their attention from the wreck of the boat, and were dancing round the fire. At length they laid down before it, and after preparing some food, partook of it, and then seemed inclined to sleep. 
               "I did not know what to do, but at last determined when they awakened to present myself before them; but they slept for some hours, and when they awoke, the fire, which should have been supplied with fuel early in the morning, as usual, had burnt out. One of them endeavored to produce fire again in the usual way, by rubbing two pieces of wood together. I thought the opportunity a favorable one to show myself. I had counted sixteen savages in all. A formidable troop for one unarmed man to meet; but their features did not betray any ferocity, and I hoped for the best. 
                
               "I stepped out from my concealment, and presented myself before the astonished group. I was greeted with a tremendous yell, and every one sprang to his feet. I must have presented even then, a strange figure, though, perhaps, not so strange as I do now. They were beardless; my beard was of six months' growth, and descended to my breast; my face was nearly hidden by my hair and whiskers, and my body was half clad in rags. They evidently were in doubt whether I was of mortal or supernatural origin, and began to converse rapidly together, using much violent gesture. Having observed them endeavoring to relight the fire, I pulled out my match-box, and, unperceived by any one, in a moment produced a light, which I courteously placed in the hand of one who appeared to be a chief. The smell of the brimstone, and the sudden appearance of the fire appeared to terrify them. The chief let the match fall to the ground, and the whole group fell at my feet, with signs of submission and veneration. 
               "I said that I was considered to be a god, and I resolved to make the most of it. I had learned to speak a few words of the Kanaka dialects, and I addressed them as well as I could-telling them-God forgive me for the falsehood-but what could I do? that I had descended from Heaven to be a priest amongst their tribe, and that they must carry me to their island in the canoes they had with them, and to afford them another proof of my divine origin, I, still unperceived by them, lit a second match, telling them that I had the miraculous power of immediately producing fire, and had been sent to bestow upon them this benefit amongst others. It is sufficient to say that I was taken on board one of the canoes, and brought to Mattao, the largest island of this group. It was two days' sail from the island where I had lived so long in solitude. I was received by Hoolooloo, the king, with every token of reverence, and installed high priest of the islands, and Hoolooloo gave me his daughter for a wife." 
                
               "And she was the mother of Adillah?" interrupted Charles. 
               "She was." 
               "And how came you to be confined to this island?" asked the young man. "Had you stayed at Mattao, you must, ere this, have been found by some of the whalers who touch there occasionally." 
               The old man smiled. 
               "You are impatient, my son," he said. "If you will let me proceed with my story, you will learn. If, as you say, I had remained at Mattao, I should, perhaps, ere this, have been restored to my home; but at that time no whale ships called there. I was the first white man the islanders had ever seen. But here comes Adillah to tell us our noon meal is prepared. We will retire to the hut, and in the afternoon I will finish my narrative." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               THE STORY OF THE ISLAND MAIDEN. 
               THE meal partaken of, the old sailor and Charles again betook themselves to the seat beneath the shade of the bread-fruit trees, and the former continued his narrative: 
               "I said that Hoolooloo gave me his daughter for a wife. It may seem strange that I should so soon have forgotten your mother, she whom I had loved with the most ardent affection. Charles, I had not forgotten her; I never shall forget her; but my own security amongst these savage people depended upon my conforming myself, as much as possible, to their habits and customs, and I saw no hope of escape from them. 
               "I grieved, for a long time, over the wreck of my youthful hopes; but I found the necessity of weaning my mind from the contemplation of those visions of happiness, which had passed from me like the flitting shadows of a pleasing dream. I have said that the facility with which I obtained fire-a task of irksome labor to them-the singularity of my appearance among them, and my own, perhaps, unjustifiable assumption of supernatural power-had caused them to reverence me as something superior to themselves. In fact, they regarded me as a deity. 
               "After a short residence amongst them, I learnt that they had identified me with the fulfilment of an old tradition, that, for moons innumerable, had been transmitted from father to son. It was, that, after a certain lapse of years, a mighty warrior of their race, whose fame had eclipsed that of any one who had lived before him, who had raised their race to the loftiest position amongst the people of the surrounding islands-whose name had struck terror into the enemies of the people of Mattao, and who, at his death, had been exalted into a demigod-would return to the earth from the sun, where his spirit had taken up its abode, and would again preside over his people, not as their earthly king, but as their sacred high priest. The tradition said also, that he would appear with a long and reverend beard. The beard amongst the islanders is but scant, and he whom nature has favored with a superabundance of this ornament is ever regarded as a superior being; and, therefore, in this regard, I seemed to answer the tradition, and then I had the means, to them seemingly supernatural, of producing fire at my will. The sun-my supposed abode for so many years-was, in their estimation, a ball of fire; could anything be more conclusive than that I was the great Sungod, whose advent had so long been looked for-the embodiment of the great warrior, whose previous earthly existence had been productive of such glory to his people? 
               "I have called these people savages; so they may be called, in the usual application of the term to all uncivilized races; but I found them, although abounding in gross superstitions, free from most of the cruel traits which characterize others of the inhabitants of Oceanica. 
               "The great Sun-deity, from whom I was supposed to be an emanation, was the Supreme Being whom they worshipped, and although they paid adoration to inferior gods, whose ideal forms were embodied in the shape of uncouth idols, to the one great deity alone were their prayers addressed; the others, warriors of note, who, as their traditions said, had been translated from earth to the sun, only being appealed to as intercessors, until the great deity should again send to earth, Ati, the warrior whom they recognized in me. After that their prayers to the Sun-deity were to be offered through Ati, and since then their deity has been worshipped through me, whom they believe to be the Sun-god's representative on earth. 
                
               "I knew that I had done wrong in thus blasphemously asserting that I was a divine being; but, as I have said, I considered that the peculiar circumstances in which I found myself, justified the deception, and after a while, I conceived the idea of converting this people to Christianity. If I could succeed in doing this, I thought I should, in some degree, expiate the sin of which I had been guilty. 
               "I had to approach the subject cautiously, and I confess I was little fitted to assume the responsibility I had undertaken. My acquaintance with the Holy Scriptures-I say it to my sorrow and mortification-was but very limited, and I had to trust to memory in all my teachings. It was with difficulty that I could make any impression upon them, so strongly were they attached to their traditional belief, and to make any impression at all, I was compelled to assimilate myself, in a great measure, with their traditions; but at last I induced them to destroy their idols, and to worship one God, not through me, but according to my teaching as his high priest on earth. 
               "All this was effected before Adillah was born, which event occurred twelve months after I had taken the daughter of Hoolooloo to wife. I do not say that I had made them Christians, for many heathenish customs are yet mingled with their religious rites, and these I dared not interfere with; but I had purged their worship of most of its grosser features, and taught them to adore but one God. The mysteries of the Trinity I dared not speak of, I was not in a position to elucidate them, and the attempt would only have led to evil. 
               "Throughout this period, the power I possessed of producing fire, as they believed, at will, was the source of all my influence; and I saw the necessity of being careful of the box of matches I possessed, and of only using them on occasions of great ceremony. 
               "Adillah grew to be a child of two years old, when the daughter of Hoolooloo sickened and died. It was on the occasion of her death that I discovered, after all my efforts, how little I had really done to banish the superstitions of the islanders. Hoolooloo came to me and besought me to save his daughter's life, to intercede for her with the great Sun-deity. I knew that she must die, and I replied that the Deity had called her to himself; and then, so deeply had I unintentionally involved myself in a web of deceit, I added that he had resolved so to call her hence, that she might the better watch over the favored people of these islands. By these means I averted from myself the wrath of the king, and the growing suspicions of the islanders, that I had not the power I pretended to; but this was averted at the expense of myself, creating a divinity in my deceased wife-I, whose aim had been to destroy their belief in the existence of intermediate divinities. Amah, my wife, died, and her obsequies were solemnized by a recurrence, on the part of the islanders, to many of their superstitions, which I dared not interfere with; but I hoped that as time wore on, and she was forgotten, these backslidings would be forgotten too. 
               "So it might have been; but while I was absent, attending upon the funeral of Amah, the infant, Adillah, had been left in charge of an island girl, and crawling to the secret spot where I deposited my box of matches, which hiding-place had been unknown even to my wife, the infant seized the treasure, and running to her nurse who was attending to the fire outside the hut, which I always kept burning, she playfully and innocently threw the box into the flames. In a moment it was in a blaze, the fumes of the brimstone filled the atmosphere, the nurse shrieked, and well nigh went into convulsions, and the women who had remained in the village-none but the males being permitted to attend the funeral-rushing to the spot, beheld the strange sight, and united their cries with those of the nurse. 
               "They had a strange story to tell when the funeral cortege returned. I saw how things were, at a glance, but I dared not speak. They said that the child had approached the fire, and in a moment there had been a succession of strange reports, and sulphureous smoke had burst from the midst of the flames; and an evil smell, such as was wont to fill the air when I had lighted the sacred fire, had burst forth and almost stifled them. They had fled from the spot in dismay, and the fire had gone out. This fire I had always kept lighted in front of my hut, and its extinction was regarded as an evil omen. I saw the king and the chiefs whisper together, and I fancied that evil was impending, and after some time the king came forward and asked me again to light the sacred fire. 
               "My power had passed from me, I no longer had the means to impose upon the credulity of the islanders. 
               "I saw the dark and angry looks of the king and his chiefs. I noted the angry glances of the islanders. I felt that my life was imperilled, and I framed another false excuse: I said that now Amah had been taken up to the Sun, there no longer existed the necessity of proving my divine emanation by the production of fire at will, and that this power was temporarily taken from me. There was more whispering, and it appeared that my excuse was taken in good part, and my false assertion credited. I little thought then, how soon this assumption of divine power on my part was to bring its own bitter penalty. 
               "From time immemorial, this island of Ooleah had been consecrated to the services of religion, and here the great religious feasts had always been held. My excuse was accepted; but it was believed that I had fallen under the displeasure of the great Sun-deity, and the traditions were called into request to discover wherein I, or the people, whose high priest I was, had failed. 
               "Then an aged and venerable chief arose and said, that in his youthful days, he had heard a tradition that the worship of the Sun-god should be confined to the sacred island of Ooleah, and that any deviation from this observance had always been, sooner or later, visited with the marked displeasure of the Divinity. 'Can,' added the venerable old man, 'can there be any stronger mark of the displeasure of the Sun-god, than the proof he has given in taking from his representative on earth the power he has hitherto enjoyed of creating fire at will. The cause is, doubtless, that Ooleah is no longer regarded with the sanctity it has been heretofore.' 
               "A murmur of applause followed this explanation, and a council of the chiefs was called to devise some means to avert the threatened wrath of the Deity. 
               "I was not permitted to attend, and I awaited the result of the council with no little terror; for although naturally a humane and docile race, I had heard tales of their former cruelties in such emergencies as these. 
               "At length I was summoned to the conclave, and there I learnt that it had been suggested that I and the child Adillah should be sacrificed to appease the wrath of the Divinity: but the old king had a strong affection for his grandchild and great friendship for me; and just at the moment that the vote of the chiefs was about to be given against me, he had interposed and suggested that I and the child should be in future shut up in the holy island of Ooleah, until it pleased the Divinity again to bestow upon me the power of producing the sacred fire. Meanwhile I was still to exercise my office of high-priest; but henceforward all religious rites were to be confined to this island. 
               "Expostulation was useless. Hither were I and Adillah conveyed, and here we have lived for many years, until Adillah has grown from a child to a woman. As time passed on, the reverential demeanor of the islanders, which had fallen off considerably, was again exercised towards me and towards Adillah likewise, who shares in the respect with which I am regarded. But since that day, I have never left these shores, and still the islanders believe that as yet the wrath of the deity is not appeased. The island is rigidly tabooed, and none dare approach it save on certain days devoted to religious exercises, and every one, even the highest chief, found here at other times, would be put to death. 
               "Here in this rude temple (pointing to the temple mention-tioned in a foregoing chapter) are the simple religious ceremonies of the islanders observed. They involve great exertions, for I am growing old and feeble, and though I have purified their religion as much as lay in my power, I am compelled to observe many absurd forms and ceremonies. Yesterday terminated one of the two great religious festivals of the year, occupying three days; thus was it that we were compelled to secrete you during the period of its continuance. Once a week the islanders meet here, but the worship lasts but a few hours. It will be six moons before a feast of such lengthened endurance occurs again." 
               The old man ceased his narrative, and Charles, who had been deeply interested, observed: 
               "And all these years you have not seen the face of a white man?" 
               "No; twelve moons after I had been banished to this lone island, I heard a rumor that a 'big canoe,' as the natives called it, had anchored off the island of Mattao, and that the visitors had left some strange animals, which were described to me. They were hogs, the breed of which has since increased so as to render them very numerous, so much so, that since then-for ships, I learn, have often visited Mattao-the crews have been supplied with pigs from the island. I need not say how much I have wished to meet with these visitors, or even to make my presence on the island known to them; but every effort has been in vain. I am a prisoner here till I am released by death." 
               The old man sighed deeply, and Charles, although he saw no hope of himself getting away from his island prison, endeavored to comfort him. The conversation was turned into another channel, and he asked various questions, relative to the habits and customs of the islanders, and the peculiarities of their religion ligion, and then he recollected how he and his late shipmates had been struck with the English-like sound of many of their phrases. This peculiarity had been derived from their having incorporated in their language various English words, taught them by Allen. And Adillah joined her father and Charles, and listened as they talked of far distant America, and of days gone by; and as Charles watched her animated countenance, and gazed upon her slender and beautifully rounded form, it was almost with regret, that he thought of the relationship that existed between them. 
               Ah! Charles Allen, Laura so soon forgotten? But let us remember that the youth is a prisoner on the lone island of Ooleah, and the young and artless Adillah is his only female companion. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               CAPTAIN MARTINGALE IN PERPLEXITY. 
               "LET me see Laura, alone," were the last words we mentioned as having fallen from the lips of Captain Martingale, when he was informed by Mrs. Baker, that Laura was at that moment in her house. 
               The lady rang the bell, and the call was answered by a servant. 
               "Find out where Miss Denman is," said Mrs. Baker, "and inform her that a gentleman wishes to see her. Shall I mention your name?" she added, turning to Captain Martingale. 
               "No, perhaps better not," said the captain, "dear me; poor Laura! to think that I should have thus strangely found her in this house, Mrs. Baker." 
               Meanwhile the servant had gone on her errand, but she speedily returned, and said that Miss Denman could not be found. She did not think she was in the house. 
               "Not in the house!" screamed Mrs. Baker, "nonsense! why, not half an hour ago she accompanied me through the rooms. I have a great opinion of Miss Denman's taste, Captain Martingale," she continued, in parenthesis, "and I took the dear girl with me over the house, in order that she might express her opinion with regard to my arrangements; but pray excuse me for a moment; I will go and find Miss Denman myself, and bring her to you." 
               Mrs. Baker searched the house above and below, the kitchens and the gardens, but no Laura could she find; and she was at length obliged to return and corroborate the previous statement of the servant, that Miss Denman must have left the house. 
               Captain Martingale fumed with impatience. "Where can she have gone to, ma'am?" he said, "I understood that she was invited to join your party this evening?" 
               "And so she was, Captain," answered the lady. "Where she has gone, I cannot surmise; but perhaps she has forgotten something of importance, and has returned home to fetch it. If so, she will doubtless soon be back." 
               "Perhaps she is taken ill!" said the captain, with considerable alarm expressed in his countenance and in the tone of his voice. 
               "I should not imagine such was the case," returned Mrs. Baker. "She would have informed me, if she had felt unwell. She appeared perfectly well, when I left her in the parlor but a short time since; she had been engaged in conversation with my husband." 
               At this juncture, the gentleman alluded to, entered the room. 
               "Ah! Captain," he said, as he advanced to shake hands with his guest, "happy once again to welcome you beneath my roof; but you seem annoyed about something, and you, too, Mrs. Baker; why, Captain, you and my wife have not been quarreling, I hope?" 
               "Where is Miss Denman, Mr. Baker?" asked Mrs. Baker, in a sepulchral voice. 
               "Miss Denman? oh-ah-the governess! I left her in the parlor a short time since with you, my dear." 
               "And she is not now to be found," replied Mrs. Baker, glancing towards her husband, with a severe frown. 
               "I can't help that, my dear," returned Mr. Baker. "Perhaps she has gone home, and he sauntered out of the room, carelessly observing that he supposed it was time to dress for dinner. 
               "Excuse me, for one moment, Captain Martingale," said Mrs. Baker, and she followed her husband into his dressing-room, saying as he entered: 
               "Mr. Baker, where is Laura Denman?" 
               "Bless me, my dear, how should I know? I have already told you I don't know;" replied Mr. Baker. "Confound these boots, I told Smith to make them to fit easy, and I might as well try to squeeze my feet into a pair of Chinese slippers." 
               "Never mind the boots, Mr. Baker, you cannot put me off with any such excuse, sir; I ask you, where is Laura Denman?" 
               "And I reply-I don't know, Mrs. Baker. Upon my word, you seem suddenly to have taken a great interest in the young woman's movements. I never saw you so interested in her before." 
               "You appeared to be very greatly interested in her, when I interrupted your conversation together, just now, Mr. Baker," retorted the lady. 
               "Oh, oh, blows the wind in that quarter?" replied the husband. "By jove, the woman's jealous, I believe," he added, aside. "Why, my dear, I saw Miss Denman for the first time in my life, to my knowledge, and believing her to have been one of your invited guests, I entered into conversation with her, and learnt from herself that she was the new governess, you had engaged for the children. While we were talking, you came in, and I left the room." 
               "And you did not know of her having left the house. You did not-" 
               The lady hesitated. 
               "I did not what? Upon my life, I don't know what you are driving at. I tell you, I have not seen Miss Denman since. She seemed to me to be a very well informed, as she is certainly a deuced good-looking girl." 
                
               "No doubt, no doubt, Mr. Baker," replied the lady, with a scornful toss of the head; but Mr. Baker did not reply. He went on dressing himself, and Mrs. Baker returned to the drawing-room, where she had left Captain Martingale. 
               By this time all the expected guests had arrived; and, in the course of a few minutes, dinner was announced. Captain Martingale escorted Mrs. Baker to the table, and took his seat by her side, as an old and intimate acquaintance. The captain looked very glum at the non-appearance of Laura, but Mrs. Baker whispered that, probably, as she was very retiring in her demeanor, she had returned home, rather than stay to dinner, and would make her re-appearance in the evening. 
               "Laura Denman retiring in her demcanor, ma'am!" exclaimed the captain. "She's mightily changed, then, since she used to tease me at Harpoon Lodge. I thought you said you had asked her to dine, and to spend the evening here, ma'am!" 
               "So I did, captain," replied the lady; "and I can no more than yourself account for her strange behavior." 
               Mrs. Baker said this with some degree of asperity, and the captain, perhaps, fancying how matters really stood with the supposed poor governess, seemed ready to take up the cudgels in her behalf. He would allow none but himself to abuse his ward with impunity; and Mrs. Baker observing this, cooled down, and took various opportunities of praising Laura's good conduct, and vaunting her high accomplishments. 
               But the dinner passed over, and the evening passed away, and Laura did not return, to the great annoyance of Mrs. Baker, and the deep concern of the captain. 
               The guests began to take their departure one by one, until Captain Martingale alone was left. He was asked to take a bed in the house, but he excused himself, saying that it was absolutely necessary that he should return to his lodgings at the Astor House; but, before he retired, he asked Mrs. Baker where Laura resided. 
               "I believe I have already stated, Captain Martingale," she replied, "that I never inquired where Miss Denman lived. If I have done so, and she has informed me, I have forgotten it-it is, I confess, very remiss on my part." 
               "So I think," said the captain, bluntly, as he wished his hosts good night, and left the house. 
               Before we proceed further, let us pause and explain certain matters, which, independently of the affection which Captain Martingale really felt towards his ward, had aided in inducing him to quit the seclusion of Harpoon Lodge, and come to New York in search of her, after having been informed of the fact of her having been seen in that city. 
               A few days after Laura had clandestinely left home, Captain Martingale received a packet of letters from England, from Mr. Pearce, the vicar of Folkestone, who had received Laura in his house, together with the stranger, after their narrow escape from death, when shipwrecked on the coast of Kent. The reader will recollect, that the good clergyman had started with surprise or emotion, or both, upon perusing the letters which had been placed in his hand by the stranger when on his death-bed. One of these letters, it has already been stated, was sent with the child to Captain Martingale. It furnished him with all the knowledge he had hitherto possessed with regard to the ward placed under his guardianship, merely stating that the writer, Mr. Denman, (who was a distant relative of the captain's) now lying on a bed of death, wished to entrust to his care, a child, who was the daughter of a deceased lady, with whom he had been on terms of friendship in India, whither, at an early age, he (the writer) had gone from America to seek his fortune; and furthermore stated, that the child had money to the amount of $10,000, invested in United States stock, the interest of which, until she reached the age of twenty-one, was to be devoted by her guardian to her support and education; but, if she married at eighteen, the guardianship of Captain Martingale was to cease, and she was to become arbitress of her own fortune. This was all, and, although somewhat unwillingly, Captain tain Martingale had undertaken the task urged upon him, moved thereto, in a great measure, by the recollection of his former friendship towards his cousin, Edward Denman, they having been boys and schoolmates together; and, to tell the truth, up to the period of Laura's quitting Harpoon Lodge, the captain had entertained a shrewd suspicion that she was the daughter of his cousin Denman; and influenced by that suspicion, he had given the child the name of her supposed father. 
               The letters he now received from England, however, upset all his previous conclusions with regard to the parentage of his ward, and half distracted him with their conflicting testimony-all unused as he was, to the elucidation of such intricate matters. 
               One of the letters alluded to, was a copy in the handwriting of the vicar of Folkestone, duly attested by legal witnesses, the contents of which, ran as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "FOLKESTONE, Kent, Nov., 18-. 
                              "TO THE REVEREND JOSIAH PEARCE:
                            
                           "DEAR SIR:-I feel that I am dying, and that although your generous behavior, on the night of the shipwreck of the "Walmer Castle" preserved me, under Providence, from a watery grave, you have but briefly arrested the progress of the fell destroyer. I leave the child, Laura, to your care, and I desire that she be sent by you to Nantucket, United States, there to be placed under the guardianship of Captain Jonathan Martingale, my cousin, and I believe, her uncle. She is, I have reason to believe, the child of your daughter, Mary Pearce, who married nine years since a sailor, named Allen; but she is not the child of Allen, who it was thought was lost off the coast of Borneo, but who, I have learnt, escaped the fate of most of the crew; and returned to England or America, carrying with him his child, a boy, who was also saved from the wreck, and both of these, for aught I know to the contrary, are still living. Captain Allen, for he then commanded his own ship, had his wife on board with him, as well as the child, and he believed, when he sailed from India, that she had either perished by drowning, or had been murdered by the savages. Such was not the case. She was, it is true, taken prisoner by the Dyaks of Borneo, but after having undergone great hardship and privation, she effected her escape, I believe, through the instrumentality of Rajah Brooke. What occurred during the subsequent two years, I know not; but at the expiration of that period, I met with her in Calcutta, then, as I supposed, a widow with one child-a daughter, the infant whom I have brought with me from India, and who is now in your house. I admired her and sympathized with her, and eventually married her. I had heard her story from her own lips, and I believed as she did, too, that Captain Allen and her eldest child, a boy, were dead; and furthermore, I was led to believe, though I even now cannot say that she distinctly told me this, that the infant girl was also her child by the same father. We, however, lived happily together for six short months, when she sickened of jungle fever, and died, bequeathing her infant daughter to my care. Shortly after her death, I myself was stricken down with fever, from the effects of which I have never recovered. I found that it would be necessary for me, as the only chance of preserving my life, to leave the East Indies. I had amassed a tolerable competency, and this I invested in England, where I intended to reside for some time at least; but I had not reached the Cape of Good Hope on my way home, ere I found that the seeds of an incurable disease had been sown in my system; and fearful that I should not reach England alive, I made my will in the presence of the captain and one of the passengers, who have signed their names as witnesses. This document I have saved: it was on my person when I was wrecked, and you will find it upon me on my decease. I have left my small fortune to various friends, and a legacy of 500, amongst others, to Captain Martingale, my cousin, which is to remain at interest in England until Laura is eighteen years of age; then, if Captain Martingale has done his duty as her guardian, I wish you, if you then be living, or failing that, some other faithful person whom you, before your death, may appoint, to deliver the amount to Captain Martingale. I have bequeathed the sum of 2,000 to the infant, and this further sum of 500 to Captain Martingale, in consequence of the love I bear Laura, and my sympathy with her in the misfortune for which she is not accountable." 
                           "Reverend Sir-I have delayed to the closing portion of my letter-which has been written at different intervals on this my bed of mortal sickness-the relation of a tale which will, I fear, deeply wound your kind and generous heart. Sometimes, I have thought I would not reveal it; but as it may hereafter be made known to you and to Laura, under more painful circumstances, it is better that I tell it now. Laura is not the daughter of Captain Allen, but of a brother of the wife of Captain Martingale-a worthless vagabond named Hastings, who was discarded by his family and friends in consequence of his vicious propensities, and who then left the United States and came to England, which country he was, after some years, obliged to fly. He went to India, and enlisted as a soldier in the Honorable Company's service, and was shortly afterwards transported for theft. He is now a convict in the penal colony of Van Dieman's Land. I learnt this from a source which I have every reason to believe authentic. I heard it after my wife died, and then I also heard that Allen, her former husband, still lived, and was told that she was aware of this, when she was married to me. I need say no more on this painful subject than this: The villain Hastings was never married to your daughter; she met him on board the vessel which conveyed her to Calcutta from the Island of Borneo. Thus, I had involuntarily been living in a state of unlawful wedlock with one who had not only grossly deceived me, but had managed, even to the last, to prevent even the slightest suspicion, and who had been cherishing as her child, the daughter of a notorious convict. This thought, in my weak state, bore so heavily upon me, that to its influence I lay my premature decease, for ere you read this, I shall be no more. My first intention was to place the infant in some charitable institution in India; and see her no more, but I had grown fond of the poor child, and I could not find it in my heart to abandon her-the fault was not her's. I therefore brought her with me; and with me, she, your granddaughter, unfortunate though she be-was saved by your generosity and the courage of the brave Kentish fishermen. 
                           "In the letter which I wish to be sent to Captain Martingale, I have enclosed a miniature of her unfortunate mother; let it be Laura's when she is grown to be a woman. I promised this to your daughter on her death-bed. I would not break my promise, even to her. My hand is growing weak, and my eyes are dim-I can write no longer. Even this letter, I fear, you will find scarcely legible. 
                           "Farewell, sir. God bless you for your kindness, and give you strength to bear up, under the affliction this intelligence must bring to you. It is the thought of this sad tale, which I had to tell, which rendered me so taciturn, when kindly questioned by you. Again, forever, farewell. 
                           
                              "CHARLES DENMAN."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               The perusal of this letter, as we have said, strangely upset the honest and simple-minded, though gruff old seaman. He perused it again and again, without finding himself able perfectly to comprehend its meaning; and then he opened a second letter, also from the same hand. It was personally to himself: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "*  *  *  Captain Martingale," wrote the vicar, "it is with feelings of sorrow, that even the lapse of years have not been able to overcome, that I fulfil the injunction imposed upon me, in the letter of which the accompanying letter is a faithful transcript. I presume that by this time, the ward placed under your guardianship must have attained her eighteenth year, and the painful duty, so long delayed, has at length devolved upon me, of making you acquainted with her unfortunate history. 
                           "You may well imagine my feelings when, in the quiet of my study-the corpse of the unhappy but generous writer lying in the house-I read the letter, he in his dying moments placed in my hands. It was a dreadful blow to a parent, to hear such an account of an only child, and that child gone to render up her great account before an all-righteous Judge. I felt as though my heart would break, and yet I was outwardly calm-strangely calm. Even my housekeeper, who is quick in reading my every thought, was deceived. Poor Mary! Against my will, she married the sailor Allen: and when I read of her death, my heart smote me, for I had not forgiven her for her disobedience; but I read on, and when I learnt that Laura was her child, I thought how I should cherish my granddaughter for my erring daughter's sake-forgiven now when earthly pardon was of no avail. But I read on to the sad conclusion, and when I learnt that the daughter so much beloved, so tenderly nurtured, had sinned so deeply, I impiously wished that I had died, ere I had known of her frailty. And the child, I could no longer bear to look upon her. I had thought of disobeying the dying injunction of the writer, and retaining taining her with me; but now I determined that it should be fulfilled to the letter, and that she should be sent to America. I forgave my daughter, but I prayed God that I might forget that He had given me such a child. 
                           "But I am growing old and feeble; already I have exceeded by many years the allotted span of man's sojourn upon earth. Under any circumstances, but a few more years of earth can remain to me. I wish to see my unhappy Mary's child again before I die. I have some property; it will be hers; but I should like to clasp her in my arms, and to tell her I am her mother's father, before my lips are sealed in death. How vain now appear all the vanities and follies of the world! What a pity it is that we do not feel this subject, before we stand on the threshold of the grave! Had I been less stern, and forgiven my child's first act of disobedience, this misery might have been spared me; Allen might have remained in England, and my poor Mary might still have been living a happy and loving wife; and might herself have closed her father's dying eyes. Thus it is, that our own stiff-neckedness brings with it its own dreadful punishment: the idea is terrible, that my severity to my child might have been the cause of her falling into the sinful course that I shudder to think of. 
                           "But enough of this. My heart fails me when I think of it. Were I not so old, I would myself undertake the voyage to America, and see my granddaughter; but that is impossible. I conjure you, then, her guardian, to allow her to visit me in England, and to remain with me, during the brief space that may yet remain to me of my earthly pilgrimage. It cannot be long, and then, if you will, she can return to you, bearing with her the dying blessing of her grandfather. 
                           "I shall anxiously await the answer to this letter, and shall be most happy to welcome you to England with Laura. 
                           
                              "Your obedient servant, 
                              "GEORGE PEARCE." 
                               
                                 "TO CAPT. MARTINGALE, Harpoon Lodge, Nantucket, U. S." 
                              
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               There were, besides these letters, several other documents, being transcripts of the clergyman's will, and of letters to be delivered to Laura, in the event of her grandfather's death before she reached England-all of which were perused with the like perplexity by the mystified old seaman; but, at last, he managed to obtain some inkling of their general meaning, and then deep and loud were his denunciations of the ungrateful girl, as he called her, for thus leaving her home. Still, these objurgations were mingled with tender epithets, and the old captain would have given his right arm to have had Laura again by his side, to read to him of an evening and play him to sleep, and mix his toddy before he retired to rest. 
               It was the third day after he had received these letters, that he heard that she had been seen in New York; and on the day following, he started in search of her, with what success, so far, the reader is aware. 
               The day after the party, Captain Martingale again made his appearance at Mrs. Baker's house, in hopes of meeting Laura there; but she did not come to attend to her duties, as usual: and, in the evening, a note, without date, was received from her by Mrs. Baker, stating that circumstances had occurred, which would render her further attendance impossible, but giving no other explanation. 
               Captain Martingale was at his wit's ends; but, at length, he resolved to insert an advertisement in the Herald, in the following words: 
               
                  "INFORMATION WANTED of Miss Laura Denman, late of Nantucket. Her guardian has information of the utmost importance to communicate, and wishes her to call at the Astor House, or leave there an address where she may be found. She may rest assured, that all that has passed, will be forgiven, and no constraint whatever will be put upon her future actions."
                
               The captain had originally written, "Benson may go to the d-l, if Laura will only return;" but, at the instance of Mrs. Baker, to whom the manuscript was submitted for approval, before it was sent to the office, this last paragraph was expunged. 
               When Laura returned home, on the night of Mrs. Baker's party, she was in such a state of perturbation, that Louisa saw at once that something had occurred to distress her; but it was with difficulty she could coax her to tell what had happened. However, she did tell at last; and Louisa strongly urged her, and so did Bridget Connolly, who also heard the story, to make herself known to her guardian; but Laura was wilful. She felt strongly inclined to do so; but pride restrained her; and, on the following day, she wrote the note above alluded to, to Mrs. Baker, resigning her situation as governess to the "precocities;" and then, with double determination, she sat herself to work at the humble occupation of a seamstress. 
               On the morning of the following day, just as the two young women had finished their humble breakfast, Bridget Connolly made her appearance in their apartment, breathless from the haste in which she had mounted the stairs. She held in her hand a copy of the Herald; and, handing it to Louisa, she sunk into a chair, saying: 
               "Read that, Miss Mildmay, darlint, an' you, too, Miss Denman. Shure, an' whin ye read that, ye'll hear good news. Miss Denman, dear, ye'll be a lady agin, as sure as my name is Bridget Connolly." 
               Greatly astonished at the good old woman's perturbation, Louisa took the paper and glanced at the page she pointed out. The advertisement immediately caught her eye, and she started with surprise. In a moment, however, she recovered herself, and read it aloud, and then handed the paper to Laura. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               CAPTURE OF THE SCHOONER OF WAR BY PIRATES. 
               WE left Benson, in a foregoing chapter, on his way to the South Pacific, after having disposed advantageously of the cargo he had gathered at New Zealand. 
               He had now fully resolved to become a buccaneer upon the high seas. Every measure had been taken with a view to this purpose. He had managed surreptitiously to supply himself with guns and ammunition beyond what could possibly be required by a peaceable trader. In a by-port of one of the islands of the Eastern Archipelago, the outward appearance of the vessel he commanded had been totally changed. Her yards and booms had been painted black, as well as the white streak which ribboned her hull-and the white masts had been scraped clean, and then covered with a coat of bright varnish. She had always been a rakish-looking craft, even when engaged in the avocations of the peaceful merchant service; now, she looked mischievous. No cautious skipper would have liked to have met with such a craft on the high seas, and, having met with her, would have prudently parted company with all possible speed. Her name, too, had been changed from the peaceable appellation she had heretofore borne, to the "Avenger"-a name that Benson considered appropriate to his purposes of revenge for the evils, real or fancied, which he believed had been inflicted upon him by society. A complete set of signals, and a set of flags of all nations, had been provided; and, thus equipped, the "Avenger," with the black flag of the pirate ready for service, when the proper time came to display it, was ready for any emergency. 
               But a skillful and cautious buccaneer may find many opportunities for carrying out his ends, at least, for a time, without venturing beyond the pale of international law; and Benson, desperate and fearless as he was, had still sufficient caution left to induce him to prefer legitimate piracy to that unsanctioned by the law of nations. The time might come, when this caution would be disregarded; but, as yet, there was no need of compromising himself beyond redemption, for the times afforded abundance of opportunities to such adventurers as he. 
               To be sure, he had already committed an act of daring piracy, by seizing upon the vessel now under his command; but she was so changed in appearance, that there was little chance of her being recognized in any port that he might choose to enter, especially as he had heard that a report had been widely circulated and credited, that the "Mary Jane" had foundered at sea. At this period, the governments of Chili and Peru had just commenced one of those cruel wars which have desolated the sister republics of the South Pacific, ever since they proclaimed their independence from the domination of old Spain; and Benson, hearing of this, determined to offer his services to one or other of the rival republics, or to both: to him, it mattered not. By alternately taking sides with either, as best suited his ends, he would, as well he knew, only be following the course pursued by others, who laid greater claims than he to moral guidance with regard to their actions. With this object, he sailed to the Pacific coast of South America; and, carefully avoiding the port of Valparaiso, where he might have fallen in with traders, whose lynx-eyes might have recognized the "Avenger" beneath her borrowed plumage, or with British or American ships-of-war, whose commanders might have brought him to an account, he cast anchor in the bay of Arica, in Lower Peru, at that period disputed ground, and held alternately by the Peruvian and Chilian forces, as either for the time being obtained the mastery. 
               There were three or four merchant vessels in this port, taking on board precious cargoes of silver ore, and also two schooners of war, one of which carried the Chilian, the other the Peruvian flag. A temporary truce had been entered into, and just then Arica was a neutral port, although the Peruvians, under the command of General Alvarado, held the town. 
               Benson lost no time in going on shore, after he had brought his ship to an anchor. He made, however, no show of warlike force: his object being, for the present, to deceive the captains of the vessels in the harbor and the merchants in the town, who, anticipating trouble, were shipping off their gold and silver with all possible dispatch; and smart as his vessel looked, this was nothing uncommon amongst vessels engaged in that trade, they being generally smart sailers and better armed, and more fully manned, than vessels engaged in the ordinary merchant service. 
               Before, however, he had arranged his plans in his own mind and attired himself for the shore, he was visited by the captains of the two war vessels in the port, who came, as a matter of form, to ascertain his object in visiting Arica. He had sailed into the harbor with the British flag flying, and all the other vessels in port had courteously hoisted their colors to welcome the stranger; they were chiefly British, though one or two American banners floated in the breeze. The commanders of the belligerent powers had both come on board, officially, each claiming the right to look after the customs' revenue of the disputed territory; they were, however, quite friendly, and the very fact of their being rival claimants, served the purposes of the merchants, since between their rival claims, they paid no duties to either, satisfying themselves with making promises to both. 
               The two rival commanders met at the gangway of the "Avenger." 
                
               "Good day, Senor Capitano," was the salutation of both in a breath, as they strove each to gain the deck before the other. "You are from Great Britain, I perceive." 
               "Si, Senores," was the response of Benson to both. 
               "Your object in visiting this port is to obtain merchandize-perhaps specie," said the captain of the "Don Pedro," of the Chilian service, anticipating the query of the commander of the "Alhambra," of the Peruvian service. 
               "Si, Senores," replied Benson, saving his breath, by replying to both at once. 
               "I come on board, Senor, on behalf of the Chilian Government," continued the captain of the "Don Pedro." 
               "And I on behalf of the Peruvian Government, who now hold possession of the city of Arica," interrupted the captain of the "Alhambra." 
               "I see, gentlemen," returned Benson, "that both of you make claims of equal merit-to whom am I to reply?" 
               A scene of wordy contention immediately ensued, while Benson looked on, greatly amused, for some time. At length he interposed, and effected a cessation of windy hostilities, by asking both the captains to the cabin to join him in discussing a bottle of champagne, an invitation which was readily acceded to. 
               It was astonishing how friendly all parties became as they quaffed, in copious bumpers, the exhilarating wine. Benson, the meanwhile, kept himself perfectly sober, apparently filling his glass in unison with his guests, but, in reality, merely sipping the wine, and filling up a bumper again. By-and-by, the conversation took quite a confidential turn. 
               "You see, Senor," said the captain of the "Don Pedro," "we are not enemies, although our respective governments are at war; the captain of the 'Alhambra,' indeed, is my relation: he married my wife's cousin, a high-born dame of Seville. We are both from dear old Spain, Senor. Caramba! but it is a shame that we, high-born hidalgos of old Spain, should be fighting for these miserable devils of Creoles; but, bueno dio! What can we do?" 
               "What, indeed, Senores?" replied Benson. "I have come, as you say, to make money in the way of trade. I suppose the merchants on shore, poor miserable cowards, are shipping off their specie with all possible dispatch. The British funds promise a pretty safe investment. I suppose the percentage in the way of freight is tolerably good?" 
               "Two and a half per cent," replied the captain of the "Alhambra;" "but, caramba! the British men of war make the best of it. They charge three per cent, it is true; but what then? the merchants would sooner pay, in order to ensure perfect safety to their money, than give it to the merchantmen at the lesser percentage." 
               "Still the merchants, under the protection of the British flag are perfectly safe, I should imagine," said Benson. 
               "Safe in a general way; for instance, we, in the regular service of either party, cannot attack them; but there are picaroons abroad on the high seas, Senor-there are picaroons," said the captain of the "Don Pedro." 
               "And you, gentlemen, come in but for a small share of the spoils these times, I presume?" said Benson. 
               "San Pablo! small enough", replied the captain of the "Don Pedro;" "still, at times, we do come in for a share-par example, I have now on board the 'Don Pedro' $100,000 in bullion, which belongs to a Chilian merchant, who is so situated that he cannot get any of the merchantmen in port to take his freight on board. It is claimed by the Peruvian government, and the captains of the merchant ships are fearful, if they take it on board, that my friend here, who is watching them closely, will pounce upon them, when they get out of the harbor." 
               "It is strange," said Benson, "that in such a case, you gentlemen do not test who is the strongest, and appropriate the spoils to the victor." 
               "Caramba! Senor, we understand each other," was the reply ply; and the two naval heroes exchanged knowing glances. "'When fools fall out, rogues make their gains,' you know is an old proverb." 
               "But Arica, I understand, is now in the hands of the Peruvians." 
               "What then-to-morrow it may be in the possession of the Chilians." 
               "Never!" exclaimed the captain of the "Alhambra"-"never! The Peruvians will die to a man, before such a disgrace shall befal them." 
               Signs of growing passion between the two captains were evident, and Benson interposed, and proposed as a means of restoring good feeling, that another bottle of wine should be emptied. 
               This proposal was readily acceded to, and the bottle was at once produced. 
               It was now late in the day, and the two captains suggested the propriety of returning on board their respective ships-at the same time hinting, in the most delicate manner, that the champagne was superior in quality, and that a present of a few bottles would be acceptable. 
               Benson readily took the hint, and a basket of champagne was speedily placed in each of the boats alongside, and with mutual protestations of eternal friendship, both the naval commanders withdrew. 
               Benson had learnt all he wished to know; half an hour afterwards he stepped ashore at the landing-place, and wended his way to the hotel usually resorted to by the sea-captains. Several of these were present, and after having cautiously sounded them, and learnt where they came from, in order that he might not commit himself, Benson managed to ingratiate himself with them. 
               He passed himself off as the commander of a vessel of his own, from Sydney, New South Wales, and stated that he had come to Arica in hope of obtaining a consignment of bullion; since the trade for dye woods in Guatemala had grown so dull, that it would hardly pay to take it on board. An hour thus passed away, at the expiration of which Benson observed that he thought it was advisable to report himself to the commandant, and bidding his jovial friends good night, he left the hotel, and proceeded to the commandant's quarters. 
               Although past the hours for the transaction of business, he was admitted upon stating that he had sought an interview with the commander of the garrison, which might involve matters of importance. 
               Senor Don Enrico de Alvarado, the officer in whose august presence Benson now found himself, was by birth a scion of one of the most noble families of Castile, and himself immediately descended from parents of Castilian birth. He consequently inherited all the pride of the Spaniard, enhanced by the vanity of the Creole. He was polite, as all Spaniards are, and courteously welcomed his visitor, and requested him to be seated, before he sought to ascertain his business. 
               Benson, however, was not long in coming to the point, to gain which he had sought the interview. 
               After a few commonplace observations had passed between himself and the commandant, he said, abruptly- 
               "Senor General, I command the vessel now in the port, which arrived here to-day." 
               "Perfectamente," replied General Alvarado, politely, and patiently waiting for further explanation with regard to Benson's somewhat untimely visit. But the latter wished to excite his curiosity, and at length Alvarado observed- 
               "You command a merchantman, senor, I presume? I heard no salute from the 'Alhambra,' now in port, nor from your own vessel, which would have been the case, had you commanded a vessel of war." 
               "Not exactly either, Senor General," returned Benson. "The fact is, Senor I am seeking service. These are stirring times, and the captain of the 'Avenger' does not wish to remain idle." 
                
               "Your ship is armed?" said the general interrogatively. 
               "Yes, Senor. Pretty well armed and manned too; for the matter of that, though, it might be as well to ship a few more men." 
               "Then, Senor Capitano, you wish me to understand that you desire to enter the Peruvian service?" 
               "Or the Chilian," answered Benson, cautiously; "I wish to be employed in that service which offers the best inducements." 
               "Tiene V. razon," replied Alvarado, "and that service is decidedly the Peruvian, in which I have the honor to hold a high command. We are glad to engage the services of brave and honest men. I offer you the rank of captain in the Peruvian navy." 
               "Which consists?"-said Benson, interrogatively- 
               "Of three schooners, besides the 'Alhambra,' now in this harbor, and soon, I trust, we shall count the 'Don Pedro,' belonging to the Chilian government, amongst the number of our vessels of war. Just now, this is a neutral port, but the neutrality will before long be suspended, and then, if the 'Don Pedro' does not go to sea beforehand, the captain of the 'Alhambra,' will measure strength with him." 
               "What number of vessels belong to the Chilians, may I ask?" interrupted Benson. 
               "The Chilian government," replied Alvarado, "possess four schooners; they have one more than we; but, que es esto? The Peruvians are braver men than the Chilenos, and if you, Senor, join us, we shall be their match in the number of vessels." 
               This interview resulted in Don Alvarado signing, on behalf of the provisional government of Peru, a commission, wherein Senor Enrico Benson was appointed a captain in the Peruvian navy, and entitled to all the privileges thereunto belonging, including prize money captured by land or sea, &c., &c. This last named privilege, Alvarado was particular in pointing out to Benson, who smiled significantly, but made no reply. He had, however, gained his end, which was to be entitled to carry a national flag, and under its cover, to carry out his own piratical schemes with greater facility. 
               He had already a definite object in view. The captain of the "Don Pedro" had stated, that he had on board the schooner specie to the amount of one hundred thousand dollars. It was a tempting bait, and Benson resolved to make those dollars his own as quickly as possible. 
               It was dark, ere the newly made captain in the Peruvian navy returned on board his vessel. The anchor watch was alone on deck and awake, the remainder of the crew being in their hammocks. Benson quietly descended to the cabin, and ordered his mates to be summoned. The officers were awakened from their slumbers, and soon made their appearance before their captain, and in a very few minutes Benson had made them acquainted with his designs. He then gave them orders to summon the crew. The men were roused up from below, and Benson went on deck and briefly harangued them: 
               "My lads," he said, "on board yonder ship," pointing to the Don Pedro, "there is treasure to the amount of one hundred thousand dollars. I have laid a plan to make it ours. You will assist me in carrying it out. The schooner, it may be conjectured, is well armed and manned, for she carries the national flag of Chili. But what of that? her crew consists of Chilians and Creoles, whom we can easily overpower. We must act with the utmost secrecy, and we shall be well rewarded for our trouble. Now, go forward and slip the cable. We can afford to lose an anchor for the sake of such a prize. Make no noise. We will hoist the fore stay-sail, and drop quietly alongside, and carry the schooner by boarding, if we can. Have your pistols ready in your belts, but don't fire unless it is absolutely necessary. Let the cutlasses and boarding-pikes do the work." 
               Elated with the prospect of an easy success, and their avaricious cious feelings aroused by the intelligence that the vessel had treasure on board, the men set to work with good will, and in the course of a few minutes the "Avenger" was slowly and silently dropping down upon the doomed "Don Pedro." 
               There was no obstacle in the way of this stealthy approach The two war schooners, the "Alhambra" and the "Don Pedro," lay far apart, each anchored off an opposite shore of the bay; and the "Avenger" had not only taken a position between the two, but, as luck would have it, she had been brought to an anchor to the southward of the "Don Pedro," and as the current in the bay set slowly towards the northern shore, the "Avenger" drifted down upon her, without requiring any manuvring on the part of the crew with the sails. 
               The merchant ships in the port were clustered together nearly a mile nearer to the town, where the water was not so deep. All was still, not a breath of air stirred, scarcely was the murmur of the surf, breaking on a rocky shore some miles distant, audible; not a soul appeared to be stirring on board the ships; where so many human beings were reposing, the sound of one solitary, human voice was not heard. Like the nighthawk, floating noiselessly in the air, and dropping down with outstretched wings upon his unsuspecting prey, the "Avenger" bore down upon the doomed victims of Benson's cupidity. The night was clear and cloudless, but the moon was in her first quarter and gave but an imperfect light. There were no living witnesses, save the perpetrators of the deed, to tell the tale; but when the sun rose in the morning, and the sound of the ship's bells and of the handspikes, struck upon the decks to awaken the crew, was borne over the water-the "Avenger" was barely visible far out in the offing, already hull down, and the sailors roused from their slumbers to re-commence their daily duties, looked in vain for the "Don Pedro." It was only when spyglasses had been called into requisition, that her topgallant mast-heads could be discerned just peeping above the water, at the spot where she had lain the night before; and then some of the sailors, who had been sleeping out their anchor watch, recollected that, in the dead hour of the night, they had heard faint sounds, as of the voices of men engaged in mortal strife, borne over the water; and some said they had fancied they heard the clash of steel, and once a report like that of a pistol, and they asserted that they had roused themselves from their comfortable positions and gazed out into the darkness, but they had seen nothing, and thinking all they had heard mere fancy, they had simply coiled themselves up and slept again. 
               But now it was manifest to the captain of the "Alhambra," and to the skippers of the merchant ships in whose company Benson had made himself so agreeable on the previous night, that the strange captain was a buccaneer, or quite as bad, one of the licensed parties called privateersmen, permitted to exercise their outrages and to plunder and murder with impunity under the shelter of a national flag, and the honest skippers began to consider how far they had incautiously let the stranger into their secrets, with regard to the amounts of specie they each had stowed away on board, and to fear that they had been too unwary, and they resolved not to venture out of the harbor, until some of the ships of war on the coast came down to Arica, so as to afford them the protection they might need. 
               General Alvarado, was the only person who had really any idea of Benson's position, and he was in a great measure deceived. Benson had told him the night before, ere they had parted, that he intended to seize the "Don Pedro;" but Alvarado expected his own share of the booty, and the "Avenger" had sailed away. However she might only have sailed for Islay, whither Alvarado had mentioned he intended to proceed in a day or two, and with this belief, the general was compelled to rest satisfied, and as to the captain of the "Alhambra," he fumed and swore, in the purest Castilian, that had he known the strange captain's intentions, he would have broken the neutrality and had a dash at the "Don Pedro," and the one hundred thousand dollars himself; it was too bad that a stranger, and a foreigner, too, caramba! should walk off with so rich a prize. But the captain of the "Avenger," although he went to Islay with his vessel, had no idea of rendering up any portion of his spoil. Like La. drone Cochrane, some years before, under cover of the Peruvian flag, when it was available, under any other flag, when it suited his purposes, he pillaged merchant vessels of all nations when he came across them; the small national vessels of Peru and Chili, when he felt that he was strong enough to do so, and there was no fear of being discovered; and visiting the churches on the coast, he robbed them of the silver ornaments with which they were richly decked. To this day, the "Avenger" is recollected with terror by the inhabitants. 
               Twice the "Avenger" was boarded by officers from the British cruisers on the coast, who suspected his piratical course, but he saved himself by showing his commission as captain of a Peruvian vessel of war, signed by Alvarado, who shortly after he had signed it, became temporary dictator of Peru. 
               At length Benson's piratical deeds assumed so notorious a character, that the coasts of Peru and Chili were no longer safe for him to linger near. He had succeeded in amassing a vast amount of treasure, and he thought it advisable to give the coast a wide berth. Accordingly, he sailed away from the coast, with the object of spending some months in visiting the islands. Thus sailing northward and westward, he reached at last the vicinity of Mattao, and cast anchor in the bay already alluded to as having been visited by the "Good Intent." 
               There, safe from any interference from the cruisers in the Pacific, he resolved to spend some time in refitting his ship and allowing his crew, sated with violence and plunder, a long holiday. 
               Benson was not long in making the discovery that several of the native terms sounded strangely like English metamorphosed; nor was he long in learning that there was some mystery connected with the neighboring island-Ooleah. It was strictly tabooed, it was said, and the honest, quiet whaler-captains tains had respected the superstitions of the islanders; but this story only served to stir up the curiosity of Benson, and determined him, at all risks, to visit the island in person. His ship was well armed and fully manned with a reckless crew, and laughing at the assertions of Hoolooloo and other aged chiefs, that if he landed on the mysterious island he would be stricken with a terrible death, he resolved to arm and man a boat and proceed to the mysterious spot. Not, however, to be interrupted by the islanders more than could be avoided, he determined to make a night-visit. His ship was now all ready for sea, and he had remained for a sufficient time in Mattao bay to refresh his crew. He had made up his mind to sail in course of a few days; and during the few days that he had yet to remain; he resolved to make a general inspection of the island of Ooleah, and to discover the meaning of the strange stories told by the chiefs. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               THE INTERVIEW BETWEEN LAURA AND HER GUARDIAN. 
               LET us now return to Laura Denman and others we left in the city of New York. 
               "You surely intend to reply to that advertisement, Laura," observed Louisa Mildmay, after Laura had perused it. 
               "I do not know," replied Laura. 
               "You don't know, darlint," interposed Bridget; "sure, an' if ye don't, ye'll be the silliest creatur' in the world. Why, what does it say? Ye won't be throubled any more with the persecution ye've complained of. Yere guardian, honey, promises to forget and forgive all that has passed-more be token, he's all to forgive himself, an' not you, dear." 
               "I think, Laura," again observed Louisa Mildmay, "that it would, indeed be folly to remain longer silent. You know I have often advised you to this before; but now every thing appears so satisfactory, that you have no longer any excuse for concealing yourself from your guardian." 
               Laura at length suffered herself to be persuaded. Indeed, she had seen her folly and had felt sufficiently the burden of poverty and dependence, and she directed a letter to Captain Martingale, at the Astor House, in which she stated that she would call in the evening, and having attired herself in the best clothing she now possessed, she walked to the hotel, and assuming as much composure as her nervous tremor would allow, asked to see Captain Martingale. 
                
               She was conducted by a waiter to the room occupied by the captain, who was seated in privacy in anticipation of her visit. 
               He rose from his seat as she entered, and embraced her with the affection of a parent. Laura, whose pride was still unsubdued when she left her humble lodgings, was completely overcome by this demonstration of feeling on the part of her guardian. It was an unusual thing with him; and she sobbed aloud on the old man's bosom. 
               After a while, both became calmer, and the captain led his ward to a seat, and good humoredly upbraiding her for having deserted him, requested her to tell him all that had occurred since she had left Nantucket. 
               Laura told all without reserve, dwelling at length upon her rooted aversion to Benson, and the kindness she had met with from the old fruit-woman and Louisa Mildmay; and causing the old man alternately to laugh and bluster as she spoke of the superciliousness of Mrs. Baker. 
               "That girl, Miss Mildmay, and the old woman, Bridget-didn't you call her?-shall be none the worse off in consequence of her kindness to you," observed the captain. "But tell me, you gipsey, you had other reasons for leaving me besides your dislike to Benson? Strange fancies you women sometimes take into your heads. Now, where on earth can you find a likelier lad? But never mind-that's all past now. Benson's gone-nobody knows where. But, Laura," and the captain tried to look archly at his ward, "was there no other reason? You didn't like Benson, but didn't you like somebody else? Where is Charles Allen?" 
               "I do not know," replied Laura; "I will confess that he knew of my departure from Nantucket, but I thought, until the other day, that he was still at Mr. Baxter's, until I heard you tell Mrs. Baker that he had left." 
               "Ah! then," exclaimed the captain, "you were listening, eh? That was the reason of your sudden departure from the house; you cunning puss, thus to run away, like a skittish kitten, from your old guardian." 
               "I was listening, sir," answered Laura, "but not intentionally. I was in the adjoining apartment, and could not help hearing all that was said." 
               "Ah!" again exclaimed the captain, "then you heard something else that surprised you?" 
               "I did, sir; I beg you to tell me what it all means. I have thought my name was Denman, since I was told so on being taken from school to live at Harpoon Lodge, but I heard you say that it was perhaps Allen, perhaps Hastings; this suspense is unpleasant to endure; tell me, guardian, what is my true name, and who are my parents?" 
               "That is more than I know," replied the captain. "But I am glad after all that you heard what you did, since it will pave the way to something else I have to tell you," and without further explanation, he placed the letter he had received from Mr. Pearce in his ward's hands. 
               Laura read it through to the end without stopping, and then giving it back to her guardian, she said- 
               "This letter is incomprehensible to me, and yet extremely painful. It would seem that although my parents, whoever they were, are dead, I have a grandfather still living. What would you have me do, sir?" 
               "What would you wish to do yourself, Laura?" returned the captain. "Should you like to see your grandfather." 
               "I should indeed, sir; but surely, guardian, you know more than is revealed in this letter-you know who were my parents?" 
               "Laura," said Captain Martingale, "I have received other letters, but their contents all appear to involve a mystery that I am unable to solve. It would be foolish and useless for me to show them to you. You could not understand them even so clearly as I. But your grandfather has written, inviting me to visit England with you. If you desire, Laura, we will go together to England; and perhaps from your grandfather something more may be learned." 
               "But who is this Allen who is alluded to?" 
               "The father of Charles Allen, whom we lately spoke of." 
               "And where is he?" 
               "I know not, indeed. He has not been heard of for years. I presume he has long been dead." 
               Here was more mystery-painful mystery to Laura. If Allen was her father, Charles, her lover, was her brother; and where had he gone, thus secretly, from home? Her mind was full of painful emotions. She saw no hope of clearing up the mystery, unless the voyage to England were undertaken-and now she urged her guardian to make preparations for the voyage immediately. 
               The old man smiled. "Just like you, women," he said; "always for doing the most contrary things in a hurry. But for once, I think there is reason in what you say. We will go to England and see the old parson, Laura; and I will see about the arrangements this very day. But you must come and stay here for the present." 
               Laura explained that she was not prepared to take up her quarters in the hotel; and, as she hesitated, blushed, and stammered, the old captain, noticing her confusion, guessed the cause. He slipped a roll of bills into her hand, and said: 
               "Well, then, be it so, girl. A willful woman will have her way. But give me your address. I must not lose you again. I am almost afraid to trust you out of my sight." 
               "No fear of my running away now, guardian," said Laura. "I shall never be happy till I understand the seeming mystery that surrounds me." 
               The conversation then reverted to other matters. The captain told how they had believed she had perished at sea, and spoke of the death of the fisherman Peter. 
               Laura regretted deeply the death of the kind old man, with whom she had been so great a favorite, and who died, as she said, while in the act of doing her a service. 
               "It cannot be helped," said the captain, noticing her distress. "I have taken care of his widow. She is now at the Lodge." 
               "And Allen," said Laura, "what can have become of him?" 
               "O, he'll turn up right enough, by and by, I warrant," said Captain Martingale. "The foolish lad has started off on some Quixotic expedition, looking after you, I shouldn't wonder." 
               With this explanation, Laura was obliged to be content, and shortly afterwards she returned to her humble home. 
               The following day, the captain called at the lodgings of Louisa, and was introduced to her and Bridget. He insisted upon making them each a handsome present, as a mark of his gratitude for the kindness they had shown to Laura. And Laura, on her part, faithfully promised to see them again on her return from Europe. 
               A few days after this interview, Captain Martingale and Laura Denman sailed in the packet ship "Monongahela," for Liverpool. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               THE LOVE OF THE ISLAND MAIDEN. 
               BENSON chose a fine moonlight night for his projected visit to the island of Ooleah. He had no dread of an attack by the islanders; for, although he made no parade, he had taken the precaution to arm his men as well as himself, so as to be prepared for any emergency. 
               He certainly would have preferred that the islanders should have remained in ignorance of his intended visit, lest they might secretly, if they could not openly, baffle his purpose; but they had not the reasons that Charles and Silas Thorne had had in keeping their visit secret, viz., the knowledge of their own weakness and inability to defend themselves, if any attack were made upon them. So, with a couple of boats fully manned, Benson steering one and his chief officer the other, he pushed off from the side of the "Avenger," and, as we have said, rowed towards the island of Ooleah, determined to make himself acquainted with its mysteries. 
                
               Charles had been a prisoner for nearly six months upon the island of Ooleah; his sole companions the old seaman, his father, and Adillah, whom he now was well satisfied was his half-sister. 
               It was a wearisome life enough the young man led. Once every week, on the occasion of the periodical visits of the islanders from Mattao, led by Hoolooloo, the king, and his chiefs, to render homage to the One God whom Allen had taught them to worship, he had been compelled to conceal himself in the friendly cave already spoken of, for the day; and once again, during these six months, he had been obliged to submit to a lengthened concealment, such as we have described as having occurred almost immediately after he had first set foot on the island of Ooleah. There seemed to be no prospect of his ever making his escape from this lone island; and, although he had, in visiting it, succeeded in accomplishing one of the most cherished wishes of his childhood and earlier manhood, he almost repented that he had thus succeeded, since his success had involved so severe a penalty. 
               Had Adillah not been related to him by the ties of consanguinity, his position might have been happier; he could, at least, have more innocently encouraged and fostered the evident affection she bore him. He might, eventually, even have forgotten Laura and the ties of home, and been contented to remain on the islands, as many sailors had done before him; but he was debarred from regarding Adillah in any other light than as a sister; and, as such, shut up alone with her, for his only female companion, he did regard and love her. 
               Allen had endeavored to explain to Adillah the nature of the relationship she bore to Charles; but it was long before she could be made to comprehend that he could be her brother, and yet her mother not be his. And when, at last, she did comprehend the apparent mystery, (to her) she appeared rather gratified than otherwise that it was the case. 
               The females of the larger island did not accompany the men to worship at Ooleah, and Adillah, consequently, had not since she was a mere infant, seen the face of a woman. She might well have said, with Miranda, in the "Tempest," addressing Charles as Prospero's daughter did Fernando- 
                      
                        "I do not know 
                        One of my sex; no woman's face remember, 
                        Save from my glass mine own; nor have I seen 
                        More that I may call men than your good friend 
                         
                        And my dear father: how features are abroad, 
                        I am skill-less of: but by my modesty, 
                        (The jewel in my dower,) I could not wish 
                        Any companion in the world but you; 
                        Nor can imagination form a shape, 
                        Besides yourself, to like of." 
                     
                  
                
               But if, under more auspicious circumstances, Charles could have returned the love of the island nymph, with all the earnest affection of Fernando, he was debarred from doing so by his relationship. As a brother, he did love the beautiful and artless Adillah-stronger love he dared not entertain: and so again his thoughts flew towards home and Laura, and every day he grew more and more melancholy in his dreary imprisonment. After the old man had related his story, and had heard from Charles the latest intelligence he had brought from the world from which he had been so many years shut out-confined within a living tomb-he relapsed to silence. He had been so many years a solitary, that silence had become habitual to him. He rarely addressed his daughter, except when he embraced her when they met in the morning and parted at night; and soon this silence was extended to Charles, and the young man had but one alternative-either to become a silent brooder over the past, or to attempt to banish his melancholy, or at least to lighten it, in some degree, by walking and talking with Adillah. 
               For three months after he had landed on the island, he spent the greater portion of every day, save those which were devoted by the islanders to religious worship, in the companionship of Adillah, whose naive and artless remarks would often provoke a smile. 
               "You have no wife, Charles?" she said one day, as they roamed along the sea-beach together. 
               "No, dear," replied Charles, smilingly. "But why do you ask?" he added, for Adillah had put the question interrogatively. 
                
               "I do not know," she replied; "I scarcely know what it means to be a wife. Was not my mother, Amah, my father's wife?" 
               "Yes," replied Charles. 
               "Then I can be your wife." 
               "No, dear; you are my sister. You know how that has been explained to you-being my sister, then, you cannot also be my wife." 
               "Why not?" asked Adillah, in a tone of surprise, and pouting her pretty lips, as she spoke. "You do not want me to be your wife. You do not love me?" 
               "Yes, Adillah, I love you very much, as my sister." 
               "Kiss me, then," said Adillah, archly; and the young man readily complied with the request, and winding his arm around her slender waist, half lifted her light form from the ground, as they strolled homewards. Ah, Laura, it was perhaps as well for the fidelity of Charles Allen's plighted troth to you, that Adillah was his sister! But he had yet to learn that there were strong grounds for the belief that Laura was his sister likewise.
                
               "I shall be your wife, and your sister too!" repeated Adillah, as she leaned upon the youth; "say that it shall be so?" and she looked up half pleadingly, half saucily, into Charles's face. 
               "It cannot be, dear," repeated Charles, again kissing the willing girl. 
               "Then tell me why not?" 
               "I cannot, dear Adillah; but, ask your father and mine, also, why it cannot be; he will explain to you what I am unable to do. But, tell me, have you never wished to marry one of the young chiefs of Mattao, whom you have met when they came to worship on this island?" 
               "To marry!" ejaculated the young girl, in surprise. 
               "Yes, to marry-to become the wife of one of the young chiefs of Mattao?" 
                
               "The wife of one of them!" exclaimed Adillah-"no, no, nor the sister either, for I never dreamed of them; but you, Charles-I saw you in my dreams, long before you crossed the water, which you say is so wide, to come and see me-and I saw you, too, in my waking moments, when, tired of walking alone, I would sit down on the shore, beneath the shade of the cocoa grove, where we so often stroll together, and gaze far, far out into the dark sea, to where the blue sky meets it. It was from beyond that blue sky you came, Charles?" 
               "From far beyond the spot where sea and sky appear to meet," replied Charles. "But you have not told me why you have not become the wife of one of the island chiefs." 
               "Because I do not love any of them, and have never dreamed of them," responded Adillah. 
               "Well, well, reason enough," answered Charles; "but, Adillah, though I will always be your brother, and love you as a sister, you must ask your father to tell you why you cannot also be my wife." 
               "I will, to-night, as soon as the sun has set, and I have cleared away our evening meal; but I will not walk with you further. I know you do not love me;" and, half in fun, and half in a pet, the artless girl sprang from her brother's side and joined her father, whom she had just caught sight of wandering along the beach. 
               Whether Adillah had forestalled her intention, and, instead of waiting till the evening meal was finished, had asked her father there and then, and received the explanation, we are unable to say; but certain it is, that she was more reserved during the remainder of the evening than Charles had ever noticed her before. She blushed deeply once or twice, as she saw his eyes fixed upon her, and immediately the meal was finished, and she had performed her task, as hand-maiden of her father's house, she retired to her own room, from which she did not again emerge that night; and the young man was obliged to take his customary evening walk alone. 
                
               Whatever was the cause of this sudden change in the demeanor of the maiden-whether it arose or not from any conversation which had passed between Adillah and her father, relating to himself-Charles knew not. The old seaman had grown taciturn, as we have already observed, and seldom spoke, unless a question was put to him; while the young man did not care to speak upon the subject. But when he found that Adillah's reserve continued, he resolved to question her upon the matter, and discover, if possible, what it was that distressed her. He had felt, from the first appearance of this change in her demeanor towards him, that, in some way or other, the cause lay with himself; and, conscious that he had willingly done nothing to offend her, he, too, had stood upon his reserve; and thus, although each might be said to be the sole companion of the other, they were as haughty and distant in their bearing towards each other, as though they had been denizens of a civilized community, who had quarrelled with regard to some trifling point of etiquette; and, consequently, though each was anxious for the other to speak first, and neither knew exactly what they had quarrelled about, the pride, or rather, we should say, the self-love of both, prevented either from making the first advances. 
               As it always happens, however, whether in civilized communities or otherwise, when a gentleman and lady disagree, always, provided they really love or esteem each other, the gentleman gave in first. He could not bear up against the seeming disdain of the lady. (It is strange, how the women folks, young or old-if, indeed, it be correct to assert that a woman can grow old-it is strange, we repeat, how perverse and pertinacious the dear creatures can be, when they have a mind-gentle and yielding and loving, as they are, when one lets them have their own way.) So Charles, unable longer to live this wretched sort of life, determined to sacrifice his manly dignity, and to seek for an explanation from the lips of the pretty island maiden. 
                
               We should observe that Adillah, since Charles had been her companion, had entirely mastered the difficulty she encountered-as we have heretofore noticed, in readily comprehending and readily replying in English to her half brother. She had been taught by her father to speak English, when an infant, and then he had been accustomed always to address her in that language; but, as she grew older, and he became more familiar with the language of the islanders, and necessarily held constant intercourse with them, his own English tongue got rusty, and he always used the native dialect. Even now, when conversing with Charles, he would frequently forget himself, and address him in the island vernacular, for he readily spoke the Kanaka language, better than he did his own, or, at least, he spoke it with greater freedom. 
               But Adillah, as we have said, had become quite familiar with English now, under the tuition of Charles, and he on his part had made, under Adillah's tuition, very considerable progress in the language of the islands. For, as Byron observes, he found that lessons from her lips were easily learned- 
                      
                        "'Tis pleasing to be schooled in a strange tongue 
                        By female lips and eyes-that is, I mean, 
                        When both the teacher and the taught are young." 
                         
                        "They smile so, when one's right; and when one's wrong, 
                        They smile still more, and then there intervenes 
                        Pressure of hands; perhaps, even a chaste kiss- 
                        I learnt the little that I know by this." 
                     
                  
                
               Watching an opportunity, therefore, when Adillah was taking her habitual, and, of late, lonely walk, in the cocoa grove near the sea shore, he advanced towards her. Adillah's first impulse was to turn back; but a moment's reflection convinced her that she could only elude Charles's approach by flight; and, simple, unsophisticated island maiden, as she was, she possessed all the pride and coyness of the more socially favored of her sex. She, therefore, allowed him to approach, and passed on, as though she had not observed him. 
               This was too much, and Charles addressed her: 
               "Adillah!" said he. 
               The maiden stopped, and turned her head towards him, but did not reply; but, the youth could not help observing, that her face and neck and bosom were crimsoned with blushes-plainly discernible through the clear olive skin. 
               "Adillah!" repeated Charles, advancing, and offering to take her hand, which she first endeavored to withdraw, and then permitted him to grasp-"Adillah, dear, what means this reserve manifested towards me of late; what have I done to offend you, Adillah?" 
               The maiden bent her head, so that he could not see her face; but the blushes came quicker and grew deeper on her neck and bosom-the latter heaved tumultuously-and he could feel the pulses beat, even to the fingers' ends of the small hand he held in his own. 
               He repeated the question: 
               "Adillah-tell me, love; what have I done to offend you?" 
               "Nothing," was the faint reply-for a moment, the little hand struggled to escape from its thraldom, and the next moment, Adillah threw herself into his arms, and, leaning her head upon his breast, burst into a flood of passionate tears. A strange idea flashed through the brain of the youth; and, still, he wondered that the idea had not possessed him before. Adillah felt towards him more than the love of a sister. She loved him, as, perhaps, he would have loved her, had he not learned the secret of her birth-for which feeling he could scarcely be blamed, cast as he was upon this little island, with a beautiful and innocent girl-his constant and almost sole companion-notwithstanding he had breathed the vows of love to one far distant; but, when he learned the secret, it had schooled his heart and restrained his passions: it would have been unpardonable, had he done otherwise. But for the poor innocent girl, ignorant of the world's ways, ignorant, almost, of the existence of any other world than the little island upon which her lot had been so singularly cast-there were excuses; and pity, too, for her, who had thus found the palpable object of her dreamy imagination-the living, breathing substance of the visionary ideal which Nature, the same everywhere, in the crowded city, or in the dreary solitude, had taught her soul to yearn for-thus separated from her, and only remaining a thing for her still to worship, and still to love, but not to cling to and love as the heart now beating in her bosom, with all the warm impulses of ripening girlhood's affection, would have bade her love, and idolize, had the object of that wild, untutored affection, not been her brother. And yet, poor, innocent child, she could even now but imperfectly understand why she had been forbidden to love as her woman's nature had taught her. 
               "Be calm, dear Adillah-my sister," exclaimed the young man; and as he uttered the word sister, a shudder passed through the slight frame of the weeping girl; "be calm, and tell me your sorrows; who so fitting as I-your brother-to be your confidant, even were there others here besides your father, to whom you could unbosom yourself?" 
               Adillah wept still more bitterly; and Charles, now fully understanding the nature of her grief, allowed her to weep on, hoping that by giving free vent in tears to the burning passion which had so long been smouldering in her breast, she would find relief. He passed his arm gently round her waist; kissed her forehead, and led her to their former favorite seat in the grove. 
               Charles had judged rightly. In a short time the poor girl became more composed; she dried her tears, though her bosom still heaved with emotion; and as the youth gazed upon her, passing his hand, the meanwhile, caressingly through the rich masses of hair, the curls of which nestled in her bosom, and hung down upon her smooth and delicate shoulders, he could not help wondering at her surpassing loveliness. 
               At length, when she grew more calm, he said-again tenderly kissing her-"Now, Adillah, tell me dear, why this distress? Tell me, what can I do to comfort you?" 
               "Oh, nothing! nothing!" exclaimed the girl. "I can never be happy again. Why did you come hither? Had you not come, I could still have dreamed of you, and seen you in my waking visions, and though there would still have remained the strange aching void in my heart-that I have felt to exist so long-I could yet have been happy." 
               "Would you wish me away, Adillah?" 
               "No, no! Oh, no, you must not, will not leave me," exclaimed the girl. 
               "And yet my presence here renders you unhappy-wretched. Why this inconsistency?" 
               Adillah did not reply, and Charles repeated the question- 
               "Why this inconsistency, Adillah? I would do any thing to make you happy." 
               "Charles," said the poor girl, "my father has told me that I must not love you." 
               "Not love me, Adillah?-not love me-your brother? My father never could have told you this." 
               "It is because you are my brother that I must not love you, as my heart prompts me to love," replied the girl. She sobbed again, and again the blushes came to her cheeeks, now thinner than they were when Charles first saw her-thin and pale, they were, in spite of the dark olive of her complexion; thin and pale with the wear and tear of the deepest grief that the heart of a loving woman can know. At length she said, and now she had controlled her emotion and looked up to her brother with a faint smile upon her lips- 
               "You recollect, some time since, you asked me if I had seen no one among the young chiefs of Mattao whom I could choose for a husband, and I told you no. It was after the night you said this to me, that my sorrow begun. It had been gathering long in my bosom, although I knew not why, but then it assumed a shape and grew stronger and more terrible every day. I knew before this that you were my brother, but I scarcely knew the meaning of the word. Charles, I loved you, and hoped that you would be my husband; and then, my father told me it was sinful to love as I could not help loving you." 
               This was a strange confession for a young girl to make. Had Adillah been born and nurtured in a civilized community-had she been acquainted with the conventionalities of society-she would not have dared to have made such a confession; but then, be it recollected, she would not thus have loved. 
               Had Charles heard such a confession from the lips of one who had been born and educated amidst the conventionalities of civilized life, he would have shrunk from her who made such an avowal, and loathed and scorned while he pitied her; but from the innocent lips of Adillah, dimly conscious of some sin she was unable perfectly to comprehend, the startling avowal was divested of all its horror. Indeed, he had, as we have observed, divined already the cause of Adillah's grief, and feelings of the sincerest pity were all that he experienced towards the lovely, innocent, gentle, helpless, confiding being who still nestled close to his side. 
               He stooped and kissed her cheek. 
               "I pity you-sincerely pity you, dearest Adillah," he said, "and I love you, too, dearly and truly, as a brother can love." 
               "And, at least, you will always love me thus?" said Adillah. 
               "Always, dearest; but see, it has grown nearly dark; the moon is rising and the night-dew is falling fast. Let us go to the hut, Adillah. Come-come along. You must strive to overcome the sentiments you feel towards me, and learn to love me as a brother, and by and by you will be happy, and the roses will bloom on your pretty olive cheeks again. Come, darling, let us go home." 
               They rose from the rustic seat, and emerging together from the cocoa-grove, walked hand in hand, along the margin of the shore towards old Allen's hut. 
               Both were silent; for both were occupied with their own thoughts. 
               "Ha! what is that coming?" suddenly exclamed Adillah. 
               "There is a canoe approaching-two of them! See there; they are now in the shadow of the rock. Surely the people cannot be coming here from Mattao. It is not time; and yet it must be so. Let us hasten home, Charles. You must not be seen, or they will kill you, and then I should die." 
               She endeavored to draw the young man again into the concealment of the cocoa-grove; but the accustomed eyes of Charles had discovered that they were not canoes which were approaching. He saw that they were ship's boats, and marked the measured sound of the oars and their sharp click as they turned in the rowlocks, so different from the quick motion of the native paddlers. The thought flashed across his mind: "Can it be that Captain Peters has returned hither, and that he is seeking me?" and the thought of again regaining his liberty, and revisiting the home he began to fear he had lost for ever, almost obliterated for the moment, we regret to say, the recollection of the conversation that had passed between him and Adillah-the thought of her deep sorrow, and the pity he felt for her. He resolved, at all hazards, to await the landing of the boats, which had now passed out from the shadow of the rocks, and which, the moon having risen, were plainly visible, and evidently full of men. 
               The young man's heart beat quick. They were certainly boats from his old ship, he thought, and they were well manned, in anticipation of meeting with some difficulty in attempting his rescue; and then, less selfish thoughts returned, and he mentally resolved that he would not leave the island, without his father and Adillah accompanied him. 
               And now the boats had approached the shore. He heard the harsh grating of their keels upon the pebbles, and presently a tall man, apparently an officer, sprang upon the beach, speedily followed by some half dozen of his crew. 
               They had discerned the figures of Charles and Adillah, and the leader of the party came towards them. 
               Charles advanced to meet the two seamen, leaving Adillah still standing within the shadow of the cocoa-grove. 
               At the moment he drew near enough to speak, the moon broke forth from beneath a silvery cloud, and shone full upon the faces of the whole party. To Charles's great astonishment, he recognized in the features of the stranger, those of Benson, his suspected rival in the good graces of Laura Denman. The recognition was mutual, and at the same moment the words- 
               "Henry Benson!" 
               "Charles Allen!" escaped their lips. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               LAURA VISITS THE RECTOR WITH HER GUARDIAN. 
               SPEEDILY across the bosom of the broad Atlantic, the good packet ship "Monongahela" sped on her way. The days when the ocean was to be crossed and recrossed by steam, with a precision, as regarded time, perfect almost as the most accurate calculation could be made with regard to land travel, had not yet arrived; but the packet ships of those days were as perfect in their arrangements as they are now, and often made passages, especially from New York to Liverpool, almost as speedily as the ocean steamers can now make them. 
               Sixteen days after quitting the pier at New York, the "Monongahela" entered the port of Liverpool; and resting at that great commercial town but for a day, merely that Laura might in some measure recruit herself after her sea voyage, Captain Martingale and his ward started by the railroad for London, on their way to the residence of Mr. Pearce at Folkestone. 
               Under any other circumstance, Laura would have had her attention fully occupied with the novelty of the scenery she passed through, and the sights she witnessed, strange and new to her, who recollected to have seen nothing of the world beyond Nantucket, and such parts of New York as her associations in that city had led her to visit. But now, her every faculty was engrossed with the thought of seeing her grandfather, and of meeting, what she had never expected it would be her lot to meet-a relative. It was as strange a sensation to her to know that she had a relative living, as it would be to most persons, were they suddenly to be deprived of every one connected with them by the ties of consanguinity. Even the noise and bustle and confusion of London, the great modern Babylon among nations, possessed little or no interest to her. She opposed the wish of her guardian, that she should rest for a few days in London, and see the wonders and visit the curiosities of the great city; and urged him forward to the completion of the journey they had in view, promising that when her mind was set at ease, after learning what her grandfather had to say with regard to the mystery that surrounded her birth, she would take advantage of his kind offers, and visit with him the places most desirable to be seen by visitors to England. Beyond London, there was as yet no railroad complete, and the remainder of the journey was accomplished in one of the stages-which, still we say, for we cling with reverence and love to old habits and customs, it is pity, no longer exist, at least in their former glory. 
               Eight hours' ride by stage, however, over the smooth and level turnpike roads of England, conveyed them to Folkestone, and though it was near midnight when the stage drew up in the yard of the "King's Arms," Laura, had she been permitted to have had her own way, would even at that untimely hour have sought her grandfather's residence. 
               That, however, was out of the question; so they resolved to take beds at the hotel for the night, and to proceed to the vicarage, immediately after breakfast, on the following morning. 
               The morning came, and Laura was so impatient that she would hardly allow the captain to finish his breakfast in comfort. But at last, they set out for the parsonage, which was easily to be found, as it stood immediately adjoining the church on the cliff, above the town, an object distinctly to be seen from the high road as well as from the channel which rolled beneath. It was only when they had arrived within a hundred yards of the house, that they recollected that their visit was unannounced, for they had hurried on with such dispatch as to put letter writing out of the question. 
               Captain Martingale was somewhat "taken a-back," as he observed in seaman's parlance, at this untoward discovery; but Laura said, she felt assured there was no need of any announcement, for she was certain that her grandfather would be as delighted to see her as she would be to meet him; and as it was now too late to rectify the oversight, they entered the gate of the parsonage, passed through the neatly cultivated garden, and knocked at the door of the small, but neat and tasteful mansion. 
               The door was opened by our old acquaintance, Thomas-the faithful man-servant of the aged pastor; no longer the same strong, stalwart Thomas, who had assisted many years before in conveying the young lady who stood before him-when an infant-on the night of the wreck, to the vicarage. At least, no longer the same Thomas in appearance, for he had grown gray and old in service, and his eyes were dim and his steps were feeble, but still, in kindliness of heart, and in attachment to his master, the same Thomas as of old. 
               "This is the residence of Mr. Pearce?" said Laura, taking the words out of her guardian's mouth. 
               "It is, Miss," replied the old man, settling his spectacles and peering into the face of the fair querist, as if he were striving to recollect her features; but he appeared to be completely at fault, and he asked- 
               "You wish to see my master, Miss? What name shall I say?" 
               "Laura Denman," she replied; and Captain Martingale continued- 
               "Give our compliments to Mr. Pearce, and tell him that Captain Martingale, of Harpoon Lodge, and Laura Denman, have come over from America, according to invitation, to see him. Laura is Mr. Pearce's grand-daughter." 
                
               The old man, who was now entirely in his master's confidence, had heard something of Laura's history, and the recollection of the night of the wreck at once flashed across his memory. 
               "The Lord preserve us!" he exclaimed, starting back, and holding up his hands in astonishment-"That my old eyes should ever open to see this! Well, well, strange things come to pass in this world! Only to think, that this young woman-a grown lady-should be the self-same young babby as I carried up to master's house from the cottage on the beach, poor dear! and she cold and stiff, and her little eyes closed, as though she was dead. And the poor gentleman who died, too! Lord preserve us, I say! But master'll be main glad to see you!" 
               While thus speaking, he had ushered them into a small parlor, and, his feeble legs trembling with eagerness, he now hastened up stairs to the study, to announce the welcome news to his master. 
               Mr. Pearce was seated at the table in his study, busied in preparing his sermon for the ensuing sabbath-for though very old and feeble, he still conscientiously performed his parochial duties, having resolved that while his mental faculties still remained perfect, and his feeble body still enabled him to do his work, to entrust the soul's welfare of the flock amongst whom he had lived, respected and beloved, for nearly half a century, to no strange pastor. 
               "There are strangers arrived, sir," said Thomas, almost stumbling into the parlor in his unwonted excitement. 
               "Indeed!" said the clergyman, lifting his eyes from his manuscript, "who are they, Thomas? Have they sent up their names? I will be down in a few minutes. I wish, however, they had not called until I had finished my sermon. Ah, Thomas, your master, my good friend, is growing old! I cannot write so rapidly as I used to do, Thomas!" 
               "Their names!" exclaimed the old man. "Their names! Oh, sir, but you'll forget all about the sermon, when you hear their names." 
               "Why, Thomas! what do you mean?" said Mr. Pearce, who began to think, from the strangely excited appearance and manner of the old servant, that he was demented. 
               "I mean, sir, that the young babby you told me of, that we saved from the wreck, and who is now a grown lady-and a beautiful lady, too-is down stairs, with her guardian, and all the way from Amerikey." 
               "God bless me! You don't say so!" exclaimed the aged clergyman. Laura Denman, my poor, abused, forsaken grand-child arrived, and Captain Martingale, too! This is, indeed, more than I could have hoped for-more, far more, than I deserve. Thank God! Thank God!" and the white-haired, feeble old clergyman hurried down stairs, with a briskness and elasticity that he had not known for many years. Laura's quick, anxious ear caught the sound of the rapid, yet feeble and trembling step. Her feelings had been pent up, until they well nigh stifled her. A natural instinct told her the step was that of her grandfather, and she rushed from the parlor and met him at the foot of the stairs. In a moment, her arms were thrown around the old gentleman's neck, and he, on his part, caught her in his arms and strained her to his breast. 
               "My grandfather!" she faintly murmured, as her head sank on his shoulder. 
               "My grand-daughter!-my own poor, lost Mary's darling child!" sobbed the old gentleman, and scalding tears trickled down his furrowed cheeks, while Captain Martingale, albeit totally unused to the melting mood, brushed a salt tear from his eyelid and blew his nose heartily-complaining something about severe cold in his head-as he gazed upon the affecting scene. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               THE WRECK OF THE "MINERVA" IN THE INDIAN SEAS. 
               WE must retrace our steps for a series of years, and revert to a period antecedent to any occurrence narrated in our story, save in the allusion made by the old seaman Allen, in his narrative in relation to the wreck of his ship, on the coast of Borneo, in our twentieth chapter. 
               We go back, then, to the date of Allen's clandestine marriage, and subsequent departure for the East Indies, with his newly-wedded bride. The ship which Allen at this time commanded, was the "Minerva," of London, and she sailed from that port to Calcutta, touching at Southampton, on her way down the channel, for passengers and letters. It was from Southampton that Allen and his bride went on board. The "Minerva" duly arrived at her destined port, and Allen believed that he would there take on board a cargo for England; but freights were high at that time for the India coasting trade, and he found letters awaiting him at Calcutta, giving him directions to trade from port to port in the East Indies, as long as the freights paid rendered such a plan profitable. 
               It was something of a disappointment to Mary Pearce-now Mrs. Allen-when she heard that her return to England was indefinitely postponed; not that she was weary of travel, for she had been delighted with the voyage, and had a desire to visit other ports in the East Indies; but she had cherished the hope that, on her return home, her father would have extended to her and her husband the forgiveness for the deception that had been practised upon him, which he had refused before they sailed. 
               However, she soon reconciled herself to an inevitable necessity. She wrote to her father, that her husband's engagements would compel him to remain for some years, perhaps, in the East Indies; but that on his and her return, she hoped that a reconciliation would take place. Unhappily, this letter was never received by the Vicar, or probably matters would have been settled, and the future career of Allen and his son would have been very different. 
               The "Minerva" sailed from Culcutta to Bombay, and thence to Colombo, in the Island of Ceylon, where Mrs. Allen gave birth to a son-the Charles Allen who has played so conspicuous a part in our story. Long and anxiously Mrs. Allen waited in expectation of a letter from her father; but she waited in vain, and at last she gave up all hopes of obtaining an answer to the letter she had written. Still, she now had a child, and she resolved once more to write, and state this fact to her father, in hopes that this would move him; but circumstances occurred to prevent her carrying out her intentions-the letter was never written. 
               The "Minerva" remained on the coast of Ceylon for three or four months, during which period Mrs. Allen suffered severely from illness; but, at the expiration of that period, the vessel sailed for Borneo. 
               It was the season of the south-west monsoon, and the weather was very disagreeable throughout the passage; but the vessel neared the coast without any accident having occurred. Then, however, one of the sudden and terrific gales peculiar to the Indian Ocean, sprung up, and for three days the ship was tossed to and fro at the mercy of the wind and waves, the hurricane being so violent that no sail could be carried; and, on the second day, the rudder-chains having parted, she became unmanageable, for the sea was too heavy to permit of any attempt to repair the damages being made. 
               On the evening of the third day, the wind suddenly subsided, although the sea still ran high and the current drifted the vessel, which had been dismasted during the gale, towards the land with great rapidity. The sky had been dark and lowering during the entire duration of the hurricane, and Allen had had no opportunity, for the three days he had been drifting before the gale, of ascertaining his correct position; but he judged that he was about sixty miles to the southward and eastward of the port of his destination. The vessel had drifted so close to the shore, that people could readily be discovered, with the naked eye, gathering in great numbers on the beach. She had entered into a bay, round the capes of which the current appeared to sweep with great velocity, making it evident that the vessel must go on shore, unless the anchors-her last chance, would hold-and this was a dangerous experiment to try; for Allen was aware that the coast of Borneo, except in one or two of the principal harbors, was bold and steep, and that it was probable that he would not be able to find bottom-even this he had no means of ascertaining, since the deep sea leads and line, which had been stowed away in the stern of one of the quarter-boats, had been lost with the boat during the gale. If he found bottom, he knew that he could not be sure of finding holding ground, for coral reefs extended to a great distance from the shore, and if the anchor should unfortunately get entangled among these rocks, the heavy swell setting into the bay would cause the cable to snap as though it were packthread. However, there was no help for it. It was the last, the only resource, and the order was given to let go the anchor, the whole length of the cable having previously been hauled up from the chain-locker, and the end doubly secured around the windlass and the stump of the foremast. Down went the anchor with a heavy splash, and rapidly flew the chain over the windlass. It needed no paying out; it was as much as the crew could do to draw water and fling over it, to prevent the windlass from catching fire with the friction. 
               Was it never going to stop so long as a fathom of cable remained ed to run? Was there really no bottom to be found? But a few fathoms of cable now remained, and the crew looked hopelessly and helplessly at one another. 
               At length, there was a sudden check, and the bow plunged heavily in the trough of the sea. The anchor had held, but the cable, although the whole length was run out, was "up and down," and taut as a harpstring. As the bow rose, it tugged hard, as if the ship were trying to release herself from her tether. Again the cable relaxed as she plunged, and again, with a jerk that caused the vessel to tremble in every plank and timber, the chain was drawn tight up and down. There was another plunge and a jerk; but this time the chain snapped like whip-cord, and, as if imbued with life, and maddened with the thraldom in which she had been temporarily held, the vessel appeared to drift more rapidly than ever towards the shore. 
               The captain and crew now saw that their fate was inevitable-that nothing but shipwreck remained to them. The vessel was drifting ashore stern foremost, and their only hope was, that they might strike ground at a spot from which they could manage to reach the shore in safety. 
               The crowd of people on the shore had been increasing from the moment the ship had drifted into the bay, and it was evident that it consisted entirely of natives. It was to be feared that their object was plunder, and that the throng had assembled in anticipation of the vessel driving on shore. Thus, even the hope of succor, if the crew were enabled to reach the land, was cut off, for the natives were known to be inhospitable, and, indeed, savage in character, if they thought that the atrocities they committed could be concealed from the knowledge of the inhabitants of the white settlements. 
               But, the love of life is strong; and, although the probability was, that slavery would be their lot, if they got safely on shore, they resolved sooner to risk this than perish with the vessel. 
               Mrs. Allen had quitted the cabin when the cable parted, and had taken her place on the quarter-deck, beside her husband, and she held her infant in her arms. Allen's arm was around her waist, and, thus clinging to each other, they calmly awaited the expected shock. It came-the vessel grounded with a violence which strained every timber and parted every seam. She recoiled, and struck again with redoubled force, and then parted amidships. Fortunately, the stern was not more than forty yards from the shore, and most of the crew at once threw themselves overboard, and succeeded in gaining the beach. 
               Previously, however, to the vessel's parting, Mrs. Allen had placed her babe in the hands of his father, and had begged him to swim ashore with the child, and then return for her; and he had obeyed her. He reached the beach, and placed the infant in the arms of a native woman, without speaking a word, and then turned back, with the intention of returning on board for his wife. 
               It was too late. Already the once gallant ship was a dismal wreck, and, amidst the floating timbers and spars, the forms of the few who had been on board at the moment of the vessel's parting, could be distinguished fighting, madly, yet vainly, to disentangle themselves. The struggle was a brief one. Heavy pieces of wreck were dashing about wildly in the heaving surf, and these, striking and bruising and maiming the struggling victims, soon released them from their agony in death. 
               Allen, maddened by the sight of his wife perishing, as he believed, before his eyes, would have plunged into the surf, and probably met with instant death; but he was forcibly withheld by the natives, who crowded around him. He was seized and borne off by a portion of the crowd into the bush, a short distance from the coast, and there bound with rushes to the trunk of a tree, with several others of the crew. 
               From the slight knowledge of the Malay language which he even then possessed, he gathered that the crowd, who had assembled on the beach, was composed of two hostile tribes of Dyaks, who had been temporarily united, in the hope of joint plunder; but they had quarrelled over the spoil, and at last had agreed to share it between them. The survivors amongst the crew were also divided, and held as slaves; but one only consolation was left to Allen-the woman who had taken the infant from his arms, when he first reached the beach, belonged to the tribe to whose lot he had fallen; thus he and his child were not separated. 
               For some days the natives remained upou the coast, gethering together such spoil as the waves cast upon the shore, until not a vestige of the wreck remained visible; then thay took their departure for the interior, each party taking with them their own portion of the crew as slaves. 
               During the time they had remained on the coast, the unfortunate men had not been permitted to hold any communication with each other; thus, although they were aware that the greater portion of the crew had been saved from the wreck, no one knew who amongst the crew had really perished amidst the pieces of wreck upon the reef. 
               For three months, Allen and the portion of the crew with him, led a life of misery and hardship and starvation, until at length Rajah Brooke-the English self-elected chief of Borneo-having by chance heard that some white men were held in slavery, within a few leagues of the settlement, marched at the head of a body of men to their rescue, resolved to punish the Dyaks for this and for other outrages committed upon the coast. The Dyaks were routed; but not before they had massacred, out of pure revenge, most of the white men they held in bondage. Allen, however, effected his escape, with the assistance of the woman who had taken the child. She had grown fond of the infant, and for its sake had saved the life of its father. Thus Allen really owed his own existence to his son. 
               What subsequently befell him, the reader has learnt in the narrative he relates to Charles, on the island of Ooleah, Allen believed that his wife had perished in the wreck; but the reader is already aware that such was not the case. She had been observed by one of the natives, struggling in the surf, and, attracted by a bracelet on her arm and a string of pearls she wore round her neck, the stalwart savage had plunged into the surf and dragged the unhappy woman roughly ashore. He would have rudely torn the trinkets from her person, and probably have murdered her on the spot, had she not promptly unclasped them and presented them to him; and, at the same moment, a woman of the party interceded and spared her life-not out of any feelings of sympathy, but because she conceived that she might save herself much painful labor by compelling the white woman to labor for her. It was the hostile party to that which had seized upon Allen and the child that had secured the person of Mrs. Allen; and though she made every inquiry in her power, and besought her captors with tears of agony to tell her if her husband was saved, she could hear nothing of him; nay, they taunted her by listening with apparent interest to her description of him and the infant, and then tortured her feelings, by assuring her that both had been murdered. Thus the husband and the wife each believed the other to be dead. 
               If Allen's sufferings, whilst held in bondage by the savages, had been great, how much harder to bear must have been those of his unfortunate wife-a delicate, well-born, and well-nurtured woman-who had been bred in elegance and luxury, and never heretofore known hardship; for, although by her marriage with Allen, she had deprived herself voluntarily of many of the elegances of life to which she had been accustomed, she still had enjoyed every comfort that the generous seaman and loving husband could procure for her. 
               He had fitted up his cabin expressly for her comfort and convenience; and although of late her life had been passed upon the ocean, she had been as happily situated as if upon land. What must have been her sufferings, thus compelled to perform the meanest drudgery at the bidding of a task-mistress, herself the slave of a savage lord and master-deprived of a husband, whom she had tenderly loved, and of her infant child, at the same moment, as she believed, by death met in its most violent and cruel form! They were almost unendurable; and yet, though she daily, hourly prayed for death, she lived on, wearily, hopelessly, for she saw no prospect of escape. Long years, perhaps, of wretched existence awaited her-and thea death in a strange land, far from home and friends-among savage strangers-and a grave unwept over, unhonored and unknown-she was indeed to be pitied. 
               Nine weary months she led this wretched, hopeless life, when at last there came the escape she prayed for-not in death, but through the complete rout of the savage tribe amongst whom she lived in bondage, by Rajah Brooke and the Burmese soldiers of the coast, whom he had organized and disciplined. 
               The Rajah behaved with the utmost kindness to the unfortunate woman. She remained for some months under his protection at his chief residence, Coti, and then, at her request, a vessel from Singapore, bound to Calcutta, having touched at the island, he procured her a passage on board, paying the passage money himself, and advancing her funds sufficient for her temporary expenses upon arrival at the capital of British India. 
               On board this ship, she saw a man named Hastings, whom she recognized as having been engaged as a fisherman in her native town, Folkestone, in Kent. She had heard that he was an American by birth; and he had not borne the best character during his brief residence in Folkestone-not that he had been guilty of anything positively vicious; but he had got into trouble, once or twice on account of being engaged in some smuggling transaction, and her father, taking pity upon him as a stranger, had used his influence to save him from a prison. 
               Hastings also recognized her, and as was natural enough, they frequently entered into conversation about Folkestone, and the residents known to them both in that place, notwithstanding they had moved in such different society. Hastings was tolerably well educated, and had a very plausible way of speaking. He had known, or professed to have known, better days, and he told such pitiful stories of his early youth, that Mrs. Allen sincerely sympathised with him, and thus, ere the vessel arrived at its destined port, they had become intimate friends. There, however, they parted, Hastings again going to sea, and Mrs. Allen taking up her abode with a friend of her husband's, in Calcutta. Captain Allen had left a considerable sum of money in the hands of a banker at Calcutta, which was duly paid to his supposed widow, who, as soon as possible, repaid the money that had been advanced to her by Rajah Brooke. 
               Mrs. Allen again wrote to her father, telling her misfortunes, and announcing her supposed widowhood; but this second letter, by some fatality, shared the fate of the first. It never reached the vicar. 
               The poor woman thought she was still unforgiven, and resolved not to return to England, until she had procured the forgiveness she sought. 
               Thus a twelvemonth passed away, when one day she received a letter from the hospital, which, upon opening, she found was written by Hastings, who begged her to come and see him immediately, for he was dying. 
               She obeyed the summons, and found him, apparently, at the point of death. He had been stricken down with fever, which had left him so feeble that the physicians said there was no hope of his recovery. 
               In the hospital with him, was a female infant, of about six months old, whom the apparently dying man seemed especially anxious about. It was on this infant's account, he said, that he had sent for Mrs. Allen. 
               "Is she your child?" asked Mrs. Allen, taking the babe from the arms of the Hindoo nurse, who stood by the side of the sick man's bed. 
               "No," replied Hastings; "but I love her as dearly as if she were my own offspring. It is the thought of leaving her destitute and helpless, that agonizes me." 
               "Are her parents living?" 
               "I know not," said Hastings. 
               There was a hesitation in his voice, as he said this, which, had he been in health, might have awakened the suspicions of Mrs. Allen; but she attributed it to his weakness. The child gave promise of great beauty, and already the heart of the bereaved mother yearned towards her. 
               "I will take care of the child," she said, "if that knowledge will ease your mind. Rest assured, the child shall never want while I live; and, if her parents do not claim her, I will adopt her as my own." 
               "You must promise me that you will do so, whether you hear of the child's parents or not!" said Hastings, with an earnestness that startled the lady. 
               "Why do you insist upon that?" she asked. 
               But the excitement under which Hastings labored, when he gave utterance to the strange request, appeared to have been too much for his enfeebled condition. He sunk back senseless on his pillow. The physician said he was dying, and that he must be left alone; and, with a heart full of pity for the sufferer, Mrs. Allen left the hospital, taking the infant with her. 
               Day after day, she sent to ascertain the condition of the sick man, who still lived, greatly to the surprise of the medical attendants; and, at length, she heard that he was rapidly mending. 
               She determined to pay him another visit, being naturally anxious to hear more in relation to the child, and to know if, in the event of Hastings' recovery, he would reclaim her himself. She felt particularly anxious on this point, for she already loved the child as she would have loved a babe of her own; but, to her amazement, she was informed that Hastings had quitted the hospital. 
               "Quitted the hospital!" she exclaimed. "Was he well enough to go?" 
               "So it would appear," replied the steward, "though the doctors didn't think so; but he was very anxious to get away." 
               "And where has he gone?" 
               "That no one knows. He was a strange, shy chap. Nobody could ever get a straightforward answer from him." 
               "Did he say nothing about the infant that was brought to the hospital with him?" asked the astonished lady. 
               "Nothing, madam," replied the steward. 
               "Can I see the resident physician?" 
               "Certainly, madam;" and, begging the lady to be seated, the steward went in search of the hospital physician, who accompanied him back to the apartment where he had left the lady. 
               Mrs. Allen put similar questions to the physician, but he could only reply as the steward had done before him. "Hastings had left the hospital. He was not well enough to have done so with safety; but he appeared determined, and he had been permitted to go." 
               This was all the doctor knew; and, when Mrs. Allen put the same question she had asked the steward respecting the child, she received a similar reply. 
               She left, and returned home, and from that period, adopted the infant as her own. 
               There were some strange jokes passed at the hospital, after she had left, with regard to the parentage of the child, which were repeated to her by some busy-body, to her great annoyance; and, to prevent any further calumny, she resolved to make it believed that the child was really her own, and the daughter of Captain Allen. One person only, knew that this was not the case, and that was the lady with whom she resided; but she promised secrecy upon the subject. 
               She removed her residence to a bungalow in the suburbs of the city, and there, for some months, led a retired life, happier than she had been since the supposed death of her husband and her boy, in the society of her adopted child. While on a visit to a friend's house, near the Chandpaul Ghaut, she met with a Mr. Denman, a highly respectable merchant in the city, who showed her much attention. 
               Subsequently, they met repeatedly; and, as the reader is already aware, in the course of a few months, they were married, and Mrs. Allen became Mrs. Denman. She had told her suitor, before her marriage, that she was, as she supposed, a widow, and had related to him the circumstances attending her husband's death; but she had wrongfully led him to believe that the child, whom she called Laura, was her own, and that she had been born subsequently to the death of her late husband. 
               Mr. Denman's letter to the Vicar of Folkestone, has already informed the reader of the manner of Mrs. Denman's death, and of the subsequent departure of the widower and the child from Calcutta. It was only a few weeks before his departure from India, that he was told that Laura was the daughter of Hastings, and that Captain Allen, the former husband of his late wife, was still supposed to be living, having made his escape from the Island of Borneo, and sailed for England. Mr. Denman's informant was the physician of the hospital in which Hastings had been attended during his illness; and these assertions the doctor verified by showing letters lately received from Hastings, in which the facts were stated. 
               The letters were not dated, nor was there any post-mark upon them, and this alone looked suspicious; but the deceived and wounded Denman too readily credited all that he heard, and thus created for himself a mental wretchedness, which, probably, as he stated himself, in his letter to Mr. Pearce, tended to accelerate the progress of the disease which was hurrying him to his grave. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               MYSTIFICATIONS UPON MYSTIFICATIONS. 
               CHARLES ALLEN had known Benson, in consequence of frequently meeting him during his visits to Captain Martingale, and, for the same reason, Charles was known to Benson. They had always secretly disliked each other, in consequence of the intuitive perception each possessed that the other was his rival for the hand of Laura Denman. They met, therefore, even thus unexpectedly, and at this distance from the field of their ancient rivalry, with no very friendly feelings towards each other. 
               Benson was the first again to speak, after the mutual exclamation of surprise. 
               "Charles Allen!" he repeated, "I thought you were in Nantucket. In the name of all that is wonderful, how came you here?" 
               "I left Nantucket and went to sea," replied Charles, "while you were on a visit to Captain Martingale, nearly two years ago." 
               "Indeed!-you went to sea!" exclaimed Benson, in a tone of surprise. "What was your motive for that? I thought you were studying for the legal profession." 
               While he asked the question, the idea struck him, that Charles had left home in consequence of some quarrel with Laura Denman, and he experienced a secret pleasure at the thought. 
               Charles replied: 
                
               "I was; but circumstances occurred which rendered it advisable to leave home; and, as I had always a desire to see the world, I thought I would gratify it, by going to sea. I shipped on board a whaler, from New York; and, by an accident, which I need not now relate, I was left on this island." 
               "It is strange," muttered Benson. Then he thought of Laura's mysterious disappearance; and he added, carelessly: 
               "Did you meet with Miss Denman, in New York, before you sailed?" 
               "Miss Denman in New York!" said Charles. "No; how could I meet her there? I left her in Nantucket." 
               "And she must have left Nantucket almost at the same time that you did," said Benson, sarcastically. "I left a day or two after her disappearance; but, then, I did not know that you likewise had quitted home." 
               "You amaze me!" said Charles; "I had not the slighest suspicion of Laura's-of Miss Denman's departure from home. What could have been the cause? No accident has befallen her, I hope?" 
               There was a tremor in the young man's voice, as he gave utterance to these words, and an appearance of alarm in his countenance, which somewhat disconcerted Benson, who judged from it that he still felt a strong interest in Laura, and this suspicion was strengthened in consequence of Charles having spoken of Miss Denman, in the first place, by her Christian name, and immediately corrected himself. However, he replied: 
               "No: I have my reasons for supposing that her departure was premeditated. She sailed on board a schooner, which was lying in the port, bound to New York. That was satisfactorily ascertained before I left Nantucket. Whether she has since been heard from, I know not, for I have not visited Nantucket since." 
               "Where have you been wandering?" asked Charles. 
               "That matters not!" replied Benson, sternly; "enough, that I now command a ship of my own, lying at the neighboring island of Mattao. And having had my curiosity stimulated, by the strange reports I have heard of the mysteries of this island-Ooleah, is it not, they call it?-I have come hither to explore it. I have already found a greater mystery existing than ever I had anticipated-in finding you here to meet me. But come," he added, more pleasantly, and, for the first time, taking the young man by the hand, "we are old acquaintances, most singularly brought together. Tell me, what the d--l is the meaning of all the strange stories I hear of this tabooed spot of earth. They tell me-or, at least, so I understand them-that this is the abode of a high priest, or demi-god, or something of that sort. You are not the high priest? That would be more strangely mysterious still." 
               "No," replied Charles. "I am not. I am a close prisoner on this island; but it is not known to the natives of Mattao that I am here-if it was, my life would probably pay the forfeit." 
               "The d--l!" exclaimed Benson; "what does all this mystery mean, man? Hollo!" he suddenly exclaimed, for the first time catching sight of the flowing dress of Adillah, in the shadow of the grove. "A petticoat here!" 
               The suspicion seized him that it was Laura; and, without waiting for Charles's explanation, he darted forward, and catching the frightened girl by the arm, dragged her forward into the moonlight. A glance satisfied him that he was mistaken. There could be no mistaking, for a moment, the dark features and slender, lithe form of the island maiden for Laura, however she might have endeavored to disguise herself. 
               He started again in amazement, and exclaimed: 
               "Charles Allen, what is the meaning of this? Is it all a scene of enchantment, or am I dreaming?" 
               "It is no enchantment," said Charles, smiling, in spite of his vexation at seeing Adillah so roughly treated. "This young lady is my sister." 
                
               "What!" exclaimed Benson. "Your sister! what do you mean?" 
               "I mean what I say," resumed Charles. "This female is my sister, and the high priest, of whom you have spoken, is my father." 
               "Mystification upon mystification!" muttered Benson. 
               "A mystification which shall be satisfactorily explained, if you will accompany us to my father's hut and take some refreshment," interrupted Charles. "Come, Adillah, come, Benson," he continued, "and these persons you have with you. Come, all of you, to the hut. But, stay; you are sure there is no fear of surprise from the islanders? We should all be massacred, if we were discovered." 
               "No fear of that," returned Benson. "My boat's crew and myself are armed, and the "Avenger" is strong enough to repel any attack that may be made upon her-aye, and to take the whole group of islands, for that matter; but, what the d--l! you don't mean to say that you are alone on this island?" 
               "We are, and have no means of escape from it," replied Charles: "but, come-you wish to hear the solution of all this seeming mystery. I will shortly explain all to you." 
               Benson and his chief officer followed the young man and Adillah to the hut, the former having previously given directions to his boats' crews to keep a sharp look-out for any surprise that might be attempted by the islanders. Arrived at old Allen's hut, the strange story was told, and all the apparent mystery explained; and Benson, after he had heard it, offered to take the whole party on board his vessel. 
               The offer was, of course, accepted. The old seaman, Allen, wept tears of joy, at the thought that he should again visit the scenes of civilization, from which he had been banished so long. Charles was not less delighted, for he had begun to give up all hopes of escaping from the island; and Adillah was wild with joy at the idea of visiting the scenes that Charles had so glowingly painted to her imagination. 
               "We had better depart at once," said Benson, "for I intend to sail in the morning. Will it take you long to prepare?" 
               "Not an hour," returned Charles. "We have not much luggage to carry on board," he added, laughingly; "even Adillah's wardrobe will not occupy much space." 
               The preparations were easily made, and, before midnight, they were all on board the "Avenger," without any suspicion having been aroused in the minds of the islanders. 
               There was only one amongst the party who experienced any feelings of distress, and, strangely enough, this one was the old seaman Allen. He had been eighteen years upon the island, and he was now well stricken in years. Much as he longed to revisit his home again, he could not quit the island of Ooleah without a pang of sorrow-such as we all feel in leaving for ever a place where we have passed a lengthened period of our lives, even though the associations connected with our sojourn be only those of distress and wretchedness. 
               On the following morning, the "Avenger" sailed from the island without the natives having the slightest suspicion that sacrilege had been committed; and that the strange vessel bore away with her, the great high priest and prophet of their nation. They did not discover the disappearance of old Allen and his daughter, until the occasion of their next visit to worship on the island; and even then they did not believe that they had been taken away by their late visitors. 
               Some years afterwards, the captain of a whale ship touched at the island of Mattao, and heard a legend that once an emanation from the great Sun-god had visited their people, and had taken to wife the daughter of their king, who had borne him a child-half born of heaven, half of earth-and that when the daughter of the king had given birth to this child, she was translated to the sun, while her husband and child remained amongst the people for many years, and lived in the sacred Island of Ooleah; but, at length, they too were taken up into the sun, their mission to the people having been ended. Since then, the worship the spirit from the Sun-god had taught them, had been faithfully observed, although no one since had dared to reside on the sacred island. 
               The captain of the whaleship made some inquiry with regard to the nature of the religion of these islanders; and was astonished to find that many Christian rites were intermingled with the heathen ceremonies of their worship. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
               THE NEW ZEALAND GIRL. 
               THE Pacific Ocean, within the tropics, is noted for the calmness of its waters-hence its appellation. Seldom, if ever, are the heavy gales, which rock the Atlantic Ocean from pole to pole, (except, perhaps, the latitude in which the North-east trade winds prevail-the South-east trade winds often blow very fiercely) to be met with in the Pacific, between thirty degrees North and South; although northward and southward of those limits, the Pacific-despite its peaceful nomenclature-can get up as hearty a "blow," as Neptune can raise in any other portion of the "vasty deep." 
               The "Avenger" sailed from the Mattao group of Islands, steering to the southward and westward; for Benson had, as we have heretofore observed, certain good reasons of his own for keeping clear, for a short time, of the coast of South America. It was the intention of her commander, (if he really had any serious intention at all, and was not disposed to take a cruise any where that fancy led him), to pay a second visit to New Zealand. He had a desire to go there, and yet a strange dread possessed him, when he thought of the bloody deed that had been committed by his hand, when last he had visited that island; still, a strange fascination appeared to draw him thither-something that he could not control. The form of a man, murdered in cold blood, continually presented itself to his imagination in his dreams. He saw the features, pale with terror, as he pursued his victim through the bush-he heard the appeal for mercy, as the poor panic-stricken wretch sunk to the earth, and beheld the deadly steel raised over his head; he heard the crushing blow, as the cutlass went deep into the flesh and bone. Night after night he saw all this, and he retired to rest with fear and trembling-and yet Fate, as some would call it, Providence, as others would say, led him, in spite of himself, to visit again the scene of his terrible crime. 
               It was not the first time, by many, that Benson had imbrued his hands in human blood, when he had murdered the dastardly, miserable Hastings. Many a man far more worthy had fallen by his hands, during his smuggling and piratical career; but these haunted him not. In this regard, he felt as other men. We can commit many crimes in hot blood, without feeling them to be such; as the soldier can strike down his fellowman on the battle-field, and boast afterwards of his glorious achievements-but one cold-blooded murder will appal the stoutest soul, and pain the least sensitive conscience; at least, until by repeated isolated crimes, it becomes hardened to remorse. 
               In the direction of New Zealand, therefore, after leaving Mattao, the "Avenger" pursued her course. 
               It may seem strange, and yet, after all, it was not strange, for they were only too happy to leave their prison, that neither Allen nor Charles had made any inquiry of Benson with respect to his destination. As regards Adillah, she, poor innocent child, knew nothing of any world beyond the Island of Ooleah, nor of any people beyond her father, her brother, and the islanders who had made their periodical visits to the sacred island; but they had imagined that Benson was the captain of a whaler, and it was not until they had got on board, that the practiced eyes of both the old seaman and Charles discovered that it was no whaleship they were on board of-no ordinary merchantman, indeed, for she was too well manned for that, and the suspicion soon fastened itself upon the young man-who had never liked Benson, and had always suspected that he was not what he professed to be-that he was on board a pirate. 
               However, he dared not breathe his suspicions, and he contented himself as best he could, by resolving to leave the "Avenger" at the first port at which she touched. 
               Benson was extremely distant with the young man, when once the vessel had sailed from the Islands. He almost seemed to act, as though he were sorry that he had taken him on board. Probably, it was the mere generous thought of the moment-for the worst of men are sometimes moved to generous actions-which had led him to offer to take him on board his ship, and he was now sorry that he had done so. 
               However distant and cool in his behavior, as Benson was to Charles, and even to old Allen, he acted very differently towards Adillah. The beauty of the young island maiden appeared to have captivated him, and he paid her every attention, greatly to the mortification of the New Zealand girl, whom we have heretofore mentioned, who had accompanied him throughout all his journeyings, since he had quitted her native shores. 
               To Charles, also, this attention was by no means agreeable, for he had, in his own mind, formed an estimate of the character of Benson-by no means favorable-and although he had schooled himself to look upon Adillah as a sister only, he could not see her deceived and wronged; while she, poor child! was so innocent, so artless, so ignorant of the world and its deceptions, that she seemed pleased with the evident attention shown her by Benson, and apparently astonished at the ill-feeling excited in the breast of the New Zealand girl-the only companion of her own sex she had on board the vessel, the only one of her own sex she had known since the days when, a mere infant, she had been taken from Mattao to the Island of Ooleah. As to old Allen, he seemed scarcely to notice anything that passed. He was reserved, still, on board the "Avenger," as he had been on the Island of Ooleah, after the first excitement occasioned by his son's strange appearance there, had passed away. 
               Still there was no occasion for a quarrel, which Charles knew would, at any rate, be very ill-advised on his part; nor was there any opportunity afforded of questioning Benson as to the character of his ship and the object of his voyage. He was civil, though distant, and the crew were as silent and mysterious as their commander. 
               At last, after having sailed before fair winds for several weeks, the "Avenger" reached to the southward of the calm latitudes, and the weather, which had hitherto been favorable, became wild and threatening. The course of the ship from the islands had been almost due southwest, and when she arrived in the latitude, she was also nearly in the longitude of New Zealand. But rapid as had been their progress from Mattao, there seemed no prospect of their speedy arrival at their destined port, the harbor of Waizunga, for baffling winds scarcely permitted them to make any headway. Mara, as the New Zealand girl whom Benson had brought with him, was called, had long viewed with jealousy the partiality of her paramour for Adillah, and although she had striven to conceal it-for she feared as well as loved Benson, who though generally kind was sometimes rude and overbearing in his behavior towards her-still the feeling was manifest through all her seeming composure; and one day Benson taunted her with it, telling her at the same time that the island beauty of Ooleah was fairer than she, and that he no longer loved her. Nay, more, he said he should put her ashore on the arrival of the ship at New Zealand. The poor girl burst into a fit of passionate tears; but, speedily recovering herself, another feeling took possession of her breast. She rose from the locker on which she had been seated, and casting upon Benson a look of scorn and hatred, she left the cabin and joined Adillah and Charles Allen, who were standing on the quarter deck. 
               It was growing dark, and the air was chilly, and Adillah very soon retired to her cabin, leaving Charles and the New Zealand girl alone, for old Allen seldom quitted his own state room since the weather had undergone a change. He had lived so long in a warm climate, that he found the chilly temperature of these latitudes almost unbearable. 
               "You, too, had better go below, Mara," said Charles, addressing the New Zealand girl. 
               "Mara will stay on deck," was the reply, uttered in a voice unusually sad, for Mara was a gay, careless, happy creature, who scarcely appeared to know what sorrow meant. 
               "Are you not well, Mara?" asked Charles. 
               "Yes, Mara is well, but her heart is sad," replied the girl. 
               "Why so, Mara! what has happened to distress you?" 
               "Benson loves me no more," replied the girl artlessly. 
               "Oh, yes he does," said Charles, soothingly. "You have quarrelled, I suppose you will be friends again to-morrow." 
               "Never!" exclaimed the girl, with an energy that frightened the young man, so different was it from her ordinary manner. 
               "Mara, why this feeling, what change has come over you?" he asked. 
               "Benson has wearied of Mara," was the reply. "He loves Adillah; but the women of my land can hate, as well as they can love. The sea is sometimes calm and smooth as the lakes of Waizunga-none who had not witnessed the rage of the waters, when they are angry, would believe the tempest could so change their face; but they are stirred up to wrath from their unseen depths-so is it with the soul of woman." 
               "Benson loves Adillah," said Charles, mentally repeating the New Zealand girl's words. 
               He had often noticed, with feelings of displeasure, the peculiar attention shown by Benson to Adillah, so widely differing from his distant and somewhat haughty demeanor towards himself and old Allen; but this attention had resulted in rendering dering Adillah more comfortable than she would otherwise have been, and he had brought himself to believe that it was merely such kindness as might naturally be shown towards a young female in Adillah's position, by one who had so much in his power, to render that position less irksome he had believed that Benson really loved the New Zealand girl, and believing this, had quieted the suspicions that otherwise might have arisen in his mind. But the words, "Benson loves Adillah-he has wearied of Mara," aroused the young man at once to a sense of the danger which beset the innocent, unsuspicious island maiden, and he felt likewise the peril of his own and his father's position on board the lawless vessel-for he was well aware now of the true character of Benson and his crew-if they should cross the path of the pirate chief. He knew that his own and his father's life might be the forfeit of any indiscretion on the part of either, and then Adillah would be left without even the feeble protection which their presence now gave to her. He resolved, therefore, to conceal his suspicions; but to take an early opportunity of speaking with and warning Adillah. 
               "Mara, your fears have deceived you," he said. "Benson has only been teasing you. He cannot love Adillah, for she will not return his love. Go below, Mara-it is growing dark-and sleep to-night. To-morrow, all will be as it has been since you left New Zealand with Benson. He will love you as fondly as ever." 
               "Never!" repeated Mara, hissing forth the word, and grinding her teeth as she uttered it. "Never!" and she turned suddenly away, and descended the companion-ladder. 
               Charles remained some time longer upon the deck, and then he, too, went below. His state-room was abaft the main-cabin, in which, at the moment he entered, Adillah and Benson were seated, so earnestly engaged in conversation, that they did not observe him as he passed through. 
               He entered his state-room, and the conversation still continuing tinuing, he could not help hearing what was said; and, under the circumstances, he considered that he was justified in listening. 
               "We should be very happy, Adillah," said Benson, in a low voice, in continuation of the conversation. 
               "But I never could be happy, if my father and Charles (Adillah never called Charles, brother)-I never could be happy," she repeated, "if my father and Charles were not with me. And Mara-what would become of her?" 
               "Mara!" sneered Benson. "Mara will go back again among her own people. What is Mara to me? I never loved Mara. And your father, and Charles, as you call him, they cannot always be with you. I will take care that they are provided for. They want to go to America; I will procure them a passage to that country, and, perhaps, some day you might visit them with me." 
               "I should like to go to America with them," interrupted Adillah, "I have heard so much of America from Charles; when we talked together at Ooleah." 
               "What fate to meet there, Adillah? Neglect and scorn?" 
               "Why neglect and scorn? Not from my father-not from Charles?" 
               "Yes, from both. You know nothing, Adillah, of the conventionalities of civilized life. But I will tell you why;-you are not fair, as Charles is, and as are the women of his country. You are not so dark as Mara, and you are much prettier, but your beauty will avail you naught. Your father and Charles will be ashamed to acknowledge you, for more reasons than I need explain to you. Adillah, you will be treated as a slave." 
               Charles ground his teeth and clenched his fists with passion, as he listened to the specious arguments of the wily deceiver. And, in another state-room, there was also a listener, almost frantic with rage and jealousy; but neither of them gave token that they heard what was said. 
                
               At this moment, the mate came from the deck, and reported that the weather looked very dark and lowering, and that he thought a gale was brewing. Benson hurriedly quitted the cabin; and the sound of suppressed sobs told the listeners that the remarks of Benson, that Adillah would be discarded by the only beings upon earth she loved or had any claim upon, had affected her deeply. She was weeping bitterly. 
               Charles softly opened the door of his state-room, and stepping towards her, whispered her to return to the state-room with him. Mechanically, the young girl obeyed; and when they had entered, and Charles had closed the door, he took Adillah's hand, and seating himself beside her on the locker, asked what had occurred to grieve her. 
               The poor girl sobbed still more violently, but did not reply. 
               "I guess the cause of your distress, Adillah," continued Charles, observing that she was too much excited to speak. "I have heard a portion of the conversation that has just taken place between you and Benson; and he has striven to deceive you, and has spoken falsely. He has told you that should I be happy enough to return to the United States with my father, we should cast you off. It is a lie. Adillah! I shall always love and cherish you, as a dear sister." The hand which had lain passive in that of Charles now pressed his confidingly, and the innocent girl-so easily persuaded-so gently confiding-looked up into his face, and smiling through her tears, said-"I knew you could not be so cruel." 
               "But, Adillah!" rejoined Charles, "I did not hear, though I can partly guess, the subject of the first portion of your conversation. Tell me all. Benson means no good; but I must know all, before I can advise you how to act." 
               After some bashful hesitation, Adillah related how, from the first week of their having come on board the ship, Benson had made continuous efforts to gain her affections; and though she had avoided him as much as possible, the close confinement of the ship, and Benson's position on board gave him numerous opportunities of pushing his suit. He had promised to make her his wife, although she knew not the meaning of the term, and had told her that he would provide her with every luxury and comfort in his power to afford; and furthermore, to urge his suit, he had repeatedly told her that so soon as they arrived in port, she would be discarded by those whom she loved and who had professed such love for her. She had long resisted these importunities, and had disbelieved him, but he had repeated his asseverations so often that at last, in spite of herself, she had begun to believe him, or at least, to fear that he was telling her the truth. 
               "And where did he say that we should part, Adillah?" asked Charles, who now hoped to learn, from some incidental observation of Benson's to Adillah, what were the former's intentions with regard to himself and his father, for Benson had always been reserved and moody on this point. 
               "When the ship arrives at the port in New Zealand, to which she is bound," said Adillah, "Benson said you would leave her; and to-night he told me, that we were nearly there-that perhaps we should reach the port to-morrow." 
               "Be easy in your mind then, dear Adillah," replied Charles; "neither your father nor myself quit the ship, unless you leave with us. Mistrust-nay, disbelieve all this man says. I know him of old, and know that he is not to be trusted. You are not the only one he has sought to destroy. Mara he has deceived, and has now resolved to cast her off. The mystery that has attended his movements in America, where I formerly knew him, and the position he now occupies, are proofs sufficient of his wickedness. But go to rest now, dear-the wind, I perceive, is freshening, and I should not wonder if we have a stormy night of it. I will go on deck and look about me, and have some conversation with my father upon the subject of which we have been speaking." 
                
               He kissed Adillah, who returned to her state-room, and Charles went on deck. 
               There had been other listeners. Benson had returned to the cabin, and noticing Adillah's absence, had suspected what had occurred, and he had heard the latter part of the conversation that had passed between her and Charles; and Mara, from her own state-room, had heard all; and, maddened to fury, had concocted, in her own mind, a deadly revenge. 
               She was a wild, untutored savage, with strong passions for love or hatred; and hatred had now taken possession of her bosom. 
               Upon reaching the deck, Charles discovered that his prognostications of an approaching tempest were likely to be realized. The crew were aloft, busily engaged in putting close reefs in the top-sails, and Benson was anxiously giving orders from the quarter-deck, occasionally casting his eyes in the direction whence the gale was threatening. Old Allen was leaning over the taffrail, his gaze also riveted upon the threatening quarter of the horizon. 
               Charles walked towards his father, and, in so doing, passed Benson, who whispered harshly in his ear: 
               "So, young man, you have been calumniating me to that pretty sister of yours. I have heard what has passed. You are not satisfied, with my having generously rescued you from your island prison, but you must reward me by traducing my character. You forget that you and your father, and your pretty sister too, are in my power. I shall have something to say to you, when this cursed gale has blown over. Thank your stars, that I am now too much occupied." 
               "As soon as you please," said Charles, passionately, as he passed on to the spot where his father was standing. 
               He briefly related what had passed between himself and Adillah; but the gale shortly increased so rapidly, that the attention of every one on board was directed to the safety of the ship. 
                
               For some days past, as we have observed, the weather had been dark and lowering, and it had not been possible to obtain an observation of the sun. Benson had been obliged to trust to "dead reckoning," and he had been led to suppose himself farther off from the land than he really was. The sail on the ship was reduced to the close-reefed maintopsail, and so violent was the hurricane, that even this sail could only be carried before the wind. However, the gale was fair for the destined port, and believing himself to be yet four hundred miles from land, Benson had no fears in running before it, as he anticipated that it would moderate as he drew near the land, these gales seldom "blowing home," in this quarter of the world. Consequently, notwithstanding the weather was so thick and hazy that nothing could be discerned a mile ahead, the commander of the "Avenger" had no fears, and boldly held on his course throughout the whole of that night, and the ensuing day. 
               When, however, night-fall again came on, with no prospect of the gale abating, he began to think it advisable to heave to, and this manuvre was effected, but not without the loss of the close-reefed maintopsail, which was blown clean out of the bolt ropes. It was impossible to bend another maintopsail, for the tempest continued to increase in violence; the sea was mountainous in height, and to add to the horrors of the storm, a drizzling fall of sleet came down, cutting the flesh of the sailors, as if they were pricked with the points of thousands of needles; and one of those thunder storms arose, attended with the most vivid flashes of lightning, which are always most terrible when they come in conjunction with sleet or snow. A trysail was, however, bent, after several attempts had been made, and for some time the vessel appeared to ride more easily. Benson still remained upon deck, and so did old Allen; but Charles went below, to see after the women, both of whom were excessively alarmed. 
               Thus hours passed away, the lightning being the only light afforded by which the aspect of the horizon could be scanned, but the flashes were so terrifically vivid, that the light they gave seemed to equal that of day, though the lurid glare, lighting up the dark water, lashed with white foam, and the black, smoky sky, had something awfully supernatural in its appearance. One of these flashes, even more vivid than its precursors, discovered a heavy cloud spreading over the horizon, to windward, and resting in a smoky, black mass upon the angry waters. Presently, a zigzag flash of red lightning pierced through its most opaque part, followed by several others, in quick succession; and then came a peal of reverberating thunder that stilled the wind, appearing to appal the elements themselves, while amidst the heavy, booming crash, could be heard a succession of sharp, crackling sounds overhead, suggesting the involuntary idea that the imps of the storm fiend were hovering over the doomed ship, and rejoicing in the horror of the scene, and in the dismay of the hapless crew. Then all was darkness, palpable darkness-the hand, held up before the eyes, could not be seen-and this lasted for some minutes, when the black canopy above seemed to open, as if torn asunder, and a blue sheet of flame poured down upon the devoted vessel, shattering the top-gallant masts, and striking the iron pump rail, it passed along the chain cable and out at the port holes, with a hissing sound, like that of a serpent, suddenly disturbed in its lair. Two of the crew were killed, instantly, by the electric fluid, and three others were struck with blindness. Horror pervaded all on board, when suddenly the wind lulled, and the vessel righted, and, but for the quick caution of the men at the helm, would have "broached to." 
               The lull lasted for several minutes, and Benson began to believe that the worst was over. He expressed himself thus to his chief officer, an old sailor, well used to the Indian seas. 
               "Don't be too sure, Captain," replied the man: "I've been in such gales as this, before, though, perhaps, none of 'em were so violent as this. My opinion is, that we have worse to come, afore we have any better." 
                
               "The gale has lasted nearly two days," replied Benson, 'and they seldom prevail longer than that in these latitudes, during the spring season." 
               "Not unless they blows back agin," was the curt reply of the mate. "But," he added, after a pause, "I've know'd 'em to blow back with twice the force of the original gale, and just at this season of the year, too." 
               "We can't be far off the land, now. It won't do to 'run,' we must 'lay to' till daylight," continued Benson; "but if the lull lasts, we'll get more sail on her. We must be making terrible leeway now." 
               The lull lasted some half hour, and efforts were made to bend a new maintopsail, the precaution of tying the reefs having been taken before the sail was hoisted up to the yard; but while the men were busy aloft, one of them happening to cast his eyes to leeward, fancied that he discerned, through the dim, grey light of day, just beginning to appear, something that looked like land. 
               He called the attention of his messmates to it. 
               It was land-of that there could be no doubt-high, rugged looking rocks, towards which the "Avenger" was rapidly drifting. 
               "Land ho!" shouted the man to the officers on deck; "there is land right on our lee beam, and we are drifting upon it." 
               "Nonsense!" exclaimed Benson, although, as he spoke, he felt a choking sensation in his throat, for he feared that it might be too true. 
               But there was little time for thought, for, at this moment, the gale burst upon them with renewed fury, the sail was blown to rags, and it was with difficulty the sailors managed to cling to the rigging, as they descended from aloft as rapidly as possible. The sleet had changed to a deluge of rain, and again the lightning flashed, and the thunder pealed terrifically. The seamen were blinded with the deluge, and all order and obedience was at an end. The braces that held the yards snapped, and they squared themselves; even the rags of sail hanging to the maintopsail yard, served to propel the vessel faster to destruction; the sailors at the helm were dashed from the wheel, one of them being thrown overboard, while the limbs of the other were broken. No one offered to take their place, and the wheel, under no guidance, flew rapidly round, backwards and forwards, rendering it impossible, even had any one endeavored, to seize hold of it. Adillah and Mara were brought on deck by Charles, and rivalry, for the moment, forgotten, the two girls stood terror-stricken, and locked in each other's arms, Charles having taken the precaution of lashing them, with the end of a line, to one of the quarter-deck stanchions. 
               Although the day had begun to dawn during the lull, when the proximity of the vessel to the land had been discovered, it was now dark as midnight again, and so it remained for a quarter of an hour. 
               Then the daylight again gleamed forth, and exhibited to the helpless crew the extent of their danger. The wind had again lulled; the force of the gale had been worn out in this last effort. It was broken now, but it was too late. The "Avenger" was a wreck drifting to destruction-for not more than half a mile from her, loomed dark and frowning, a wall of rock, against which the angry surf dashed half way to the summit. But they perceived, also, that they had been driven into a harbor-not that which they sought-nay, one that under any other circumstances, Benson would have avoided; for it was the harbor of Wellington, and lying there at anchor with her topmasts struck, was a British man-of-war. However, the ad age of "any port in a storm," here held good; life is sweet, and we are always willing to run a risk to save it. The presence of the man-of-war offered a prospect, if not of safety, at least of assistance; and Benson hoped that, his ship a wreck, he would, if indeed his life were saved, be enabled to deceive the commander of the man-of-war as to his real character. But the main object now was to save life, and happily, as the wreck drifted near to the shore, the water of the bay became comparatively smooth, and by a cautious manuvre, the vessel's head was brought to bear towards a low sand ledge which extended beyond the rocks, and was indeed the only chance that offered to give them even a hope of escape from instant death. 
               In five minutes more the vessel grounded, on this ledge, with a terrific crash, which brought the masts by the board, and parted the vessel amidships. Some of the crew who were clustered on the forecastle, succeeded in getting on to the sandbank, and those who remained on the quarter deck, amongst whom were old Allen and his son, Benson, and the two females, were taken off by the boats of the man-of-war, which had, immediately the wreck had been discovered drifting towards the rocks, been sent off to their assistance. 
               All who had not perished during the tempest, managed to get in safety from the wreck, and were taken on board the man-of-war, where every attention was paid them; and the next day they had, generally speaking, sufficiently recovered to be enabled to answer any questions that were put to them. 
               Now was an opportunity for old Allen and Charles to have betrayed Benson; but notwithstanding their knowledge of his guilt, and of his covert intentions of mischief as regarded them and Adillah, they could not now bring themselves to make any charge against him, for they could not feel otherwise than grateful, in consequence of his having rescued them from their island prison; and they believed that now, at all events, they were safe from his evil machinations. 
               Consequently they allowed him to tell his story to the captain of the man-of-war, without contradiction on their part. Benson gave out that he commanded an East India vessel, and that he had been bound to Australia, but had been driven out of his course, and had lost his reckoning, during a continuance of heavy gales, which had at last driven him upon the shore of New Zealand. 
               All appeared plausible enough, and all would probably have gone well; but on the evening of the second day of their rescue, and while they were still on board the man-of-war, for there was no other vessel then in port, and no accommodation to receive them on shore, Mara sought an interview with her faithless seducer. 
               "Benson," she said, "do you still intend to send me from you?" 
               "Yes, d-n you!" said Benson, striking her with the palm of his hand. "Have not I trouble enough, without being troubled with you? go! I don't want to see your face again?" 
               The girl left him without reply, and sought an interview with the captain of the man-of-war. 
               Half an hour afterwards, a marine requested Benson's attendance in the cabin. 
               He went thither, imagining that some farther questions would be put to him with regard to the wreck; but he was astonished and alarmed, by finding that a second marine was waiting his entry into the cabin, while a pair of hand-cuffs were on the table. 
               Without a word being spoken, these were slipped on his wrists, before even he had time to think of what was being done. At last, he asked why this outrage was perpetrated upon a shipwrecked mariner. 
               "You, Henry Benson, are charged with the murder in Waizunga, some time since, of a man named Hastings, and you are not otherwise what you have represented yourself to be." 
               "Who is my accuser?" stammered Benson. 
               "I, Mara!" exclaimed the New Zealand girl, coming forward from behind a screen in the cabin, where she had concealed herself when Benson entered. 
               "'Tis false!" said Benson, fiercely. 
                
               "It may be so," said the captain, "but I have taken the girl's depositions; if your are falsely accused, you shall have justice done you. Remove the prisoner," he continued, turning to the marines, and Benson was forthwith led from the cabin, and placed under watch and ward on the lower deck. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
               STRANGE DOINGS ON BOARD SHIP. 
               A VESSEL came into the port of Wellington, a few days after the storm, in a very shattered condition. She was bound to the East Indies, being, in fact, an East India ship, which had been on a trading voyage from Calcutta to Australia, Van Dieman's Land, and New Zealand. It occupied several days in refitting her rigging and repairing the damage done to her spars. Captain M--, of the frigate, thought she offered a good opportunity for his shipwrecked guests to proceed to a port where they would be more likely to secure a passage to England, and thence to America, than by going to Australia from Wellington-even if there had been any likelihood of a merchant ship bound to Australia visiting Wellington while the frigate lay there; and as to keeping them on board the frigate beyond the period that humanity compelled, that was against all the rules of the service. To be sure, Allen and Charles could have entered on the ship's books, if they had been so minded; but the frigate had yet nearly two years to remain on the station: and both old Allen and his son were anxious to reach home as soon as possible; and then the young girl Adillah was an obstacle in the way of Captain M--. None of them had any money, nor any clothing, indeed, except that which they had worn when taken off the wreck by the boats of the man-of-war; and such garments as had been given to them by the officers and crew of the frigate: but Allen and Charles were both able to work their own passage to India, before the mast, and Captain M-- did not anticipate any difficulty in procuring a free passage for Adillah. 
               He was correct in his anticipations. The captain of the Indiaman readily consented to the proposition, and they were to go on board in three weeks-that being the period at which the Indiaman was expected to be ready to proceed on her voyage. Meanwhile they remained on board the frigate. 
               At that period, there was no vested authority in the Island of New Zealand, capable of trying Benson for the crime of murder, imputed to him by Mara: but Captain M-- made such investigations as satisfied him that Mara had told the truth; and, having procured all the evidence he could, he resolved to send him in irons also to Calcutta, to take his trial there, sending Mara as a witness, and entrusting such corroboratory evidence as he had procured to Charles. 
               At the expiration of the three weeks the vessel sailed; but on the fourth day after leaving port, on the mate going to pay his usual visit to the steerage, where the prisoner Benson was confined, he discovered that he had managed to free himself from his handcuffs, and to detach his legs from the chain which confined them to a ring bolt in the deck, and was missing. A rigid search was instituted, but he could not be found, and it was thought, at last, that he had thrown himself overboard; and this suspicion was confirmed in the minds of the sailors, in consequence of an idea they formed, a few days after his disappearance, that his ghost haunted the forecastle at night. 
               Strange noises were heard by the watch below, as they lay in their bunks; and they got so superstitious, that as soon as the ship had reached the warm latitudes, not a man of them would sleep below, or go below at all after dark. Mara and Adillah slept in the after-cabin of the vessel, and soon, they, too, became alarmed with strange noises heard at night; and one middle watch, the New Zealand girl awoke Adillah from a sound sleep, by giving utterance to a fearful shriek. 
                
               "What is the matter?" asked Adillah of the trembling girl, herself greatly alarmed, though she knew not why. 
               "Me see Benson. He stand over me, and I feel his breath warm upon my face-I wake, and his eyes glare, they frighten me"-stammered Mara, in disjointed syllables, every limb quaking with terror. 
               "You have been dreaming," replied Adillah. 
               "No, no-I no dream, I was not asleep-but I wake, as I am now, when I see him standing over me-yes, and I feel his hand upon my breast," continued Mara. 
               The shriek had alarmed the captain, who was upon deck at the time, and he hastily descended into the cabin, and asked what was the matter. Adillah related what she had been told by Mara, who was too frightened to explain herself. 
               "Nonsense!" exclaimed the captain, striking a light as he spoke. "The girl has been dreaming. You have got the silly fancy into your head that the prisoner's ghost haunts the ship. You are as bad as the foolish sailors. All the noises you hear, I suspect, are made by the rats, confound them; for my part, I wish I could get clear of the vermin, and I would be well content to take the ghost of the fellow, Benson, in exchange." 
               Mara, however, after she had recovered herself a little from her fright, persisted so strongly that she had been wide awake-indeed, had been awakened from a sound sleep by feeling Benson move the bed-clothes, or touch her bosom, and feeling his breath warm upon her cheek, and that she had actually seen him standing over her; glaring fiercely upon her-that the captain, himself, was a little staggered, and going on deck, he called the mate, and, together, they searched every nook and corner of the cabin, but to no purpose. Benson was not to be seen, nor was there any sign of anything in the cabin having been disturbed. 
               Both the captain and his officers were now satisfied that the girl had allowed the supposition that the ghost of her seducer haunted the ship, so to occupy her mind, that she had dreamed that he had appeared to her, and he bade both her and Adillah to go to sleep again, laughingly assuring the former that he never heard before that a ghost breathed, and if it did, he fancied its breath would be cold instead of hot, while the mate went upon deck again, grumbling to himself, at the folly of his captain in taking either the murderer or the two girls on board at all, and swearing that there was always sure to be some row on board a ship where there were any petticoat passengers. 
               Mara continued greatly agitated for several days, but at length, as she received no more nocturnal visits, she, herself, began to listen to the representations of Adillah, and to believe that she must have dreamed. About a week afterwards, however, there was a fresh cause of disquietude, this time on the part of the Hindoo steward, who positively asserted, in his broken jargon, that he had been awakened, during the night, by something pushing beneath his hammock, and opening his eyes, he had seen the ghost of the murderer gliding about the cabins, heightening the effect of this story, by adding that it was spirting blue, sulphureous flame from its mouth and nostrils, and that the moment he started in his hammock, with affright, it suddenly vanished. The captain laughed at the fears of the poor Hindoo, and the mate swore at him, for a cowardly black lubber; but the more they laughed and swore, the more firmly the steward persisted in the truth of his statement. At length, the captain got angry, at what he conceived to be the man's absurd pertinacity, and he hastily ordered him to hold his tongue, and get breakfast prepared. The steward was longer than usual in getting it ready, and the captain, growing impatient, demanded the reason of the delay. 
               "I hab to go down to de lazarette, Sahib, for get butter." 
               "And why don't you see that these things are ready over night, sir?" said the captain. 
               "I do, Sahib. He was dare lass night-now he gone." 
                
               "You careless scoundrel-you have left the cover off the dish, and the rats have eaten it." 
               "No, Sahib-me sartain de cover on de dish." 
               "You're telling me a falsehood, you black rascal," said the captain, hitting the poor fellow a smart rap over the head. You'll tell me next that the ghost has taken it." 
               "Tink him hab, Sahib." 
               "Silence!" thundered the captain. "Not another word out of your lips. Is the breakfast ready now?" 
               "Yes, Sahib." 
               "Come down below, then, Mr. Leach," addressing the mate; and the captain and mate descended together to the the cabin. 
               "Steward," said the captain, after a short time, "bring here the jar of preserves that was opened yesterday." 
               "Yes, Sahib," said the man, and the jar was placed upon the cabin table. 
               "Why, you black thief," sung out the enraged captain, removing the bung from the jar, "there was scarcely any of this jelly eaten yesterday, and now the jar's nearly empty. Where has it gone to? Tell me the truth, now, or I'll seize you to the rigging, and thrash you within an inch of your life. The rats haven't eaten this, at any rate, for the bung was in fast enough." 
               "Me not know, Sahib," answered the trembling steward. "Me think ghost eat um, Sahib. Me miss someting dis one, two, tree day-ebery day." 
               "By Jove! but this is too much!" said the exasperated captain, and rising from his seat, and seizing the steward by the collar of his white jacket, he shook him until every joint in his body was in danger of dislocation. 
               After breakfast was over, a rigid search was made by the captain, in the steward's pantry, in order to discover if there had been any more devastation of this kind committed, and it was found that pickles and preserves, and cans of fancy biscuit, and bottles of wine, and other luxuries innumerable, had disappeared appeared, as the steward persisted, without his knowledge, and all of which short comings he charged to the ghost, in spite of the repeated boxes on the ears, and thumps of the head he received from the irate captain. 
               However, the remaining luxuries were taken from the steward's charge, and placed under lock and key; and things went on quietly, as usual. But, although the rats or the ghost now ceased to despoil the pantry, the sailors in the forecastle began to make complaints. The rats played the mischief with the beef and pork kids at night; and, strange to say, either they or the ghost were epicures in their choice, for large pieces of the best portions of the meat, and entire biscuits disappeared. Complaints were made aft, and every means taken to catch the thief, who, it was suspected, was some greedy individual among the crew; but in vain. No trace of the purloiner could be found, and the superstitious sailors, as the steward had done, laid the blame to the ghost. 
               The vessel was now fast nearing the shores of India, and all was going on smoothly, though, as fast as one little mysterious peculation was discovered, some other one was sure to ensue from some other quarter, going from the steward's pantry, to the forecastle locker, and thence to the store-room, when one night the captain was awakened from his sleep by a scream of alarm from Mara. He sprung from his cot and hurried to the after cabin, demanding, in no very gentle tones, what was the matter. Both the girls were sitting up in their beds, trembling, and almost speechless with terror. Upon being again interrogated, Adillah at length said, that she had been awakened by Mara's scream, and just as she opened her eyes, she had seen the form of Benson pass by her bedside, and descend through the floor of the cabin. The captain, half-angrily and half-contemptuously, treated her explanation with ridicule; but she was supported in her assertion by Mara, who said that she had been awakened, by the bed-clothes having been gently removed, and had seen Benson standing by the side of the bunk, with one hand upraised, and a dagger in it, which he was about to plunge into her breast. 
               The girls were so much alarmed, that they refused to stay alone in the cabin, and the captain called Charles in to stay with them till daylight. 
               Going on deck, himself, the captain entered into conversation with the mate, and relating to him the tale the girls had told, asked what he thought of it. 
               "Some foolish nonsense," said the gruff mate; "women allers are such silly creatures; they're a great nuisance aboard a ship. That prisoner chap, who jumped overboard, has put the old boy into their foolish heads; but, thank God! if this breeze holds, we shall be in port in a fortnight, and then we shall get rid of 'em." 
               "But," said the captain," do you know that a strange thought has come into my head: suppose that fellow has not jumped overboard?" 
               "What else could he have done, sir, saving your presence?" replied the mate. 
               "Why, is it not possible that he may have concealed himself among the cargo?" 
               "Hardly, sir," replied the mate, smiling, with just as much of a sneer as he dared show in the presence of his superior. "You recollect, sir, the hold and the store room was searched when he was first missed, besides, if he had done so, he has met the fate he deserves, and starved himself to death, before this, sir; he could hardly live on wool," and the old sailor chuckled at the idea of a man endeavoring to support life with that description of sustenance. 
               "That comes to the point," rejoined the captain. "You know how continuous have been the complaints of the stores being missed, as well from the steward, as the hands for'ard; now might it not be that this fellow has secreted himself somewhere in the hold, in a place that we overlooked in our search, and that he comes up at night and forages for himself. The fact is, when one comes to think of it, the steward would never dare to continue these pilferings, for which he has been blamed; besides, I have always, heretofore, found him honest, and he has been several times to sea with me; I never missed a pin's worth before; then the men are always complaining of some one rummaging their locker, and yet the thief can't be found out, though the cowards are afraid to watch in the forecastle at night. The ghost of this fellow, Benson, may be on board after all, in bodily form. Then couple these facts with the fright of the girls; though I think little of the New Zealand lass's fright, for she, very naturally, may dream all she fancies, considering the connection she had with the scoundrel, and the part she played in getting him arrested; but the other girl, Adillah, tells a similar story now, and both swear that they saw him to-night-Mara says, with a drawn dagger or knife uplifted over her-and both assert that he suddenly vanished through the cabin floor." 
               "Now, Captain, do you give credit to that ere?" interrupted the mate. "What! vanish through the cabin floor. By all the Gods of Vishnu and Siva, that's a little too strong. You're jesting with me, sir!" 
               "Not at all," replied the captain. "It is this very assertion of the girl's, that gave rise to the suspicion I entertain. Supposing this man is really alive and on board, and that he gets up from his lodging place in the hold, through the lazarette hatch?" 
               "That's in the middle of the fore cabin deck," said the mate, thoughtfully, as if the thing had now struck him as being possible; "and you know the girls couldn't see him go through there from their bunks. 
               "Very true; but there is another hatchway in the after cabin, in the very berth in which these girls sleep. No one on board the ship knows of its existence but myself, for I had it caulked down some three or four years ago. But I'm determined to examine it in the morning, and to make another, and a more thorough search in the hold; the more I think of it, the more I feel satisfied that the scoundrel is still on board the craft." 
               The captain went below and turned in, leaving the mate half persuaded that he was correct in his suspicions. 
               On the following morning, after the two females had arisen, the captain examined the long unused hatchway beneath the bunks they occupied. Sure enough, the oakum was all removed front the seams, and upon raising it, a coil of spare rope was so arranged immediately underneath, as to give evident demonstration that some one had been in the habit of treading upon it. 
               "By George!" said the captain, "we've treed the ghost's hole, at any rate. We must now make a close search in the store-room; he's hidden there, somewhere or other, depend upon it. Steward, bring me the dirk knife that hangs over my bed. Mr. Leach, you come down with me, and, steward, light the signal lantern and hold it down the hatchway." 
               These orders were severally obeyed, and the captain and mates went below into the lazarette, or store-room, the steward holding the light as he had been directed. 
               The store-room was not a very large place; it only extended beneath the fore and after cabins, their length and width, and was still more than half filled with casks, bales and barrels, so if any one was really concealed there, he was likely very soon to be discovered; but the search was in vain. Empty bread casks were looked into; even empty barrels were drummed, to find whether they sounded hollow or not, and a cane inserted and worked about in the bung-holes. The loose bread bags were removed; every place in which a man could by any possibility conceal himself, was searched in vain, and the mate and captain were on the point of giving it up, and coming out of the store-room, when the latter, in pressing against the bulkhead that partitioned off the store-room from the lower hold, felt one of the planks give way to the touch. 
                
               "Ah!" he exclaimed, "see here, Mr. Leach. What's this? We're right, after all. I shouldn't wonder if the chap's in the lower hold." 
               "Why, it's chock full of wool, all above the ballast," said the mate; "chock as a block, right up to the bulkhead." 
               "How, then, comes this plank to be loose?" 
               "Oh, maybe the wool shifted a little during the voyage; depend upon it, that's all; we're making a wild-goose search, captain." 
               "Hand me the lantern here, steward;" said the captain, and taking it from the man's hand, he held it close to the bulkhead, while with the other hand, he, with perfect ease, removed the plank, and found a space so large behind, that he held the lantern out within it. 
               "The cargo has shifted a little, with a vengeance," he said, taking back the lantern and turning to the mate. "Why there's a hole full two feet square, worked through the bales, and God knows how deep. The lantern throws the light a couple of yards or more, and it appears to extend much further than that. Take the lantern, and see for yourself." 
               Astonished, yet still half incredulous, the mate took the lantern and examined the place. 
               "By --, it is so," he exclaimed. "That's no shift of cargo, some body's been to work in earnest there, and made that hole." 
               "Ay, and loosened this plank, too, and stole my provisions. Benson's there, as sure as a gun! The girls were right, after all. Now, the question is, how are we to unearth the fox, for find him I will, or my name's not T--." 
               "We must go in after him," observed the mate, who did not much seem to relish the task. "But, we must be careful, for he's a desperate fellow, any way, and he'll be more desperate now. It'll be neck or nothing with him." 
               "Nevertheless, he must be found," said the captain, decidedly. "I'll go first, if you are frightened." 
                
               "No, no," exclaimed the mate, who felt his honor touched, more by the tone in which the captain had spoken, than by the words themselves, and he immediately entered the hold. 
               "Stay," said the captain, "I'll go first, you follow after me," but the mate had already crept forward some feet. 
               "Take this dagger, then," said the captain, creeping after him and handing him the weapon, and I'll get another and follow you." 
               He drew back, and calling to the steward, ordered him to hand him the carving-knife, and then he followed the mate, the captain taking the precaution of carrying the lantern also with him. 
               To the astonishment of both, the hole that had been worked into the cargo, soon became of such dimensions, as to enable them to walk almost upright and abreast, and they had already advanced as far nearly as the pump-walls, when the mate suddenly uttered a cry of agony, the lantern was knocked out of the captain's hand, and at the same moment somebody rushed past him towards the store-room. He lost not a moment in returning, for he had not a doubt that it was Benson who had wounded the mate, and made his way into the cabin. But he had scarcely reached the hatchway, when a scream of agony again fell upon his ear; but this time from a female voice, followed by a shriek of horror. 
               The captain sprung up into the cabin, only just in time to see the legs of a man disappearing out of the cabin. Quickly he followed, but ere he had reached the deck, a heavy splash, and exclamations of terror from the crew, told him that now the murderer had really committed suicide. He ran to the gangway, and looked over the side. Benson rose but once, and then turning his face toward the ship, and raising one hand with a motion of defiance, he sank beneath the blue water forever. 
               The captain then recollected the scream he had heard in the cabin, and the condition in which he had left the mate, and he descended immediately, and entered the after cabin. There a dreadful scene met his gaze. Extended upon the deck lay the almost lifeless body of the New Zealand girl, the blood streaming from a wound in her breast; and, in a faint by her side, was stretched Adillah. He immediately called for help, and raising the girls, he left them in charge of Allen and Charles, and some of the seamen who had come below at his summons, and taking the steward with him, he returned to the hold to look after the mate. He found him, however, creeping slowly along towards the store rooms, and when he was helped out and taken into the cabin, and his wound examined, it was found that, though severe, it was not dangerous. The dagger had been directed at the breast, but had struck against one of the ribs, and by that fortunate occurrence alone, was the life of the mate saved. 
               Returning to the after-cabin, where the girls were lying, the captain found Adillah recovering from her swoon, though dreadfully terrified; but he soon perceived, that although Mara still lived, her recovery was hopeless. The knife had penetrated the chest to the entire depth of the blade. 
               Every possible attention was paid to the unhappy sufferer, and she soon recovered her consciousness, and was able to articulate faintly; though it was evident that life was fast ebbing away. Still the hemorrhage was stopped, and she was care fully placed in her bunk. 
               The captain and the second mate then went again into the hold to ascertain, if possible, how the murderer had managed to conceal himself, and what he had done with the vast quantity of wool which he had removed from the bales, and which, as the mate had observed, he could not have eaten. The secret, however, was soon explained. A half empty water-tank, which had not been used during the voyage, was found almost full of wool, loosely thrown in, and near it was a place where Benson had evidently been used to sleep, for the impression of his body was distinctly discernible-while round about were scattered empty bottles, bones, and pieces of biscuit-the debris of his stolen meals. 
               Only one article of clothing, belonging to him, was to be seen-it was his jacket-and this the captain brought out with him. It was also discovered that he had worked a similar but smaller passage to that which led to the state-room abaft, into the coal hole, where he had ready access to the forecastle, and thence he had doubtless procured food, when the supplies from the store-room and steward's pantry were stopped. When the pockets of the jacket were examined, nothing was found in them; but a portrait, set in a locket, which Charles Allen recognized as singularly resembling Laura Denman, although the hair was much darker, and the face paler and somewhat older than hers. 
               As he was looking at the portrait, the dying eyes of Mara caught sight of the locket, and she feebly beckoned Charles to her; and then, faintly and in broken language, yet still sufficiently plain to be understood, she said that the locket had once belonged to Hastings, and that Benson had purchased it of him, because it so much resembled one he knew in a far-off land, but some days afterwards, Hastings had endeavored again to possess himself of the trinket, which was valuable on account of the setting-and this, she believed, had been the origin of the quarrel, which had led to other difficulties, and at last to the murder of Hastings by Benson. 
               These were the last words the dying girl spoke. Within an hour, she breathed her last, and on the following day, her remains were consigned to the same spacious grave that had the day before received within its vasty depths the body of her guilty seducer. 
               These scenes of horror struck dismay into the hearts of all on board; and the fate of the poor New Zealand girl was deeply lamented, especially by Charles Allen and Adillah. 
               Quietly, with a bright sky above, the vessel sped her way over the smooth, yielding waters, leaving-without a mark or signal to tell the tale-the spot where this horrible deed of murder and suicide, had been committed, and ten days afterwards, she cast anchor off Sanger Island, where a Hooghly pilot came on board, and in three days she was safely moored off Police Ghaut, Calcutta. Old Allen, who, as the reader is aware, was familiar with the place, left the ship here with Charles and Adillah-not a little to the joy of the captain, mate and crew; for the scenes which had been enacted on board, had caused these worthy personages to look upon them as birds of ill omen. If they had remained, half the crew would have deserted the ship. Old Allen soon found two or three persons who, although they did not recognize him, recollected his story, many years as had rolled away since he had sailed from that port, and since his wife had resided there. 
               After some time, he heard that she had been saved from the wreck and rescued from the savages of Borneo, and by making diligent inquiry, he at length found out the female friend, with whom she had temporarily resided-now a very aged woman but retaining a perfect recollection of her guest. From her, the old seaman heard of his wife's subsequent marriage, she believing him, as he had believed her, to be dead, and he was never weary of listening to the old lady's reminiscences of one whose memory he still tenderly revered. 
               "Ah!" said the old lady one day, "ah! bitterly, poor thing, she used to cry over your loss and that of her boy! This is him, you say?-what a fine grown young man he is!-aye, and like what his mother was as two peas-poor, dear lady! If it hadn't been for her daughter, I believe she would have died of grief before she got married again!" 
               "Her daughter!" exclaimed the old seaman, in a tone of astonishment. "You must labor under a mistake, ma'am. I never had a daughter by her!" and he glanced askance at Adillah as he spoke; "You mean to say," he continued, "that she had a daughter by her second husband." 
               "No, not by her second husband, by her first husband-you, sir, Captain Allen. She had the child at my house-a sweet, innocent babe she was. Her name, I recollect now, was Laura-Laura Allen." 
               "But I never had a daughter," repeated Allen. 
               "Dear me!" said the old lady, "now you call to my mind something that I don't recollect distinctly. But it was said by some-but nobody believed it-that the child was not her first husband's; but I forget, I'm sure, how it was. 
               "What year was it in which my wife lived with you, and had this child with her?" asked Allen, in an agitated tone. 
               "Let me see. It was when I lived at Goreahmah Tollah. That was in 18-. I left there on the following year; and, just after I left, I heard of Mrs. Allen's marriage, to a gentleman named-let me see. What was it? Oh! Denman." 
               "In 18-," exclaimed Allen. "Why, madam, that was two years after I lost my ship. How old was the child?" 
               "Quite a baby," answered the old lady; "five or six months old, I should think. Ah! now I recollect," continued she. "Mrs. Allen fetched the child from the hospital, and told me that its real name wasn't Allen; but that she wished people to think so, because she was going to adopt it, and people would talk. Dear me! how confused everything becomes, when one begins to grow old. What did she say the little dear's name was? I know they called her Laura Denman; but that was after her father-in-law, Mr. Denman. He was a very fine gentleman, too." 
               "Laura Denman!" exclaimed Charles, who had been eagerly listening to this conversation. 
               "Yes, young gentleman, Laura Denman. If she's living now, she must be grown a beautiful young lady. But, what was the child's real name, now? Oh! I have it. It was Hastings. That is to say, her real father's name was Hastings; but Mrs. Allen never would let her be called Hastings!" 
               "Hastings!" exclaimed old Allen and Charles, in a breath. 
                
               "Yes, Hastings; I'm sure that was the name, now, because I recollect some year or two afterwards a man of that same name-people said he was the father of the child Mrs. Allen said was hers-had been transported for some crime." 
               The old lady had become so garrulous, that Allen and his son and Adillah, shortly retired, glad to get rid of her clatter, for both the old seaman and Charles had heard quite sufficient to occupy their thoughts. Allen still did not credit the alleged faithlessness of his wife, or at least her want of respect, as the old lady's story would imply, to her supposed dead husband's memory, but he resolved to make further inquiry, and learn if the garrulous old dame's story had any foundation in truth; or was only a stringing together of the old reminiscences of her younger days; and Charles had abundance of matter for speculation, in thinking how strangely Laura's history seemed to be connected with his own, while both father and son had reason for wonder in the thought, that probably the murdered man, Hastings, was the father of this child; while of Laura, however, the old seaman could learn nothing more, the affair had happened so long ago, and people don't live to a great age in Calcutta. There were few living who were grown persons, when the event had occurred. 
               The few friends, however, that Allen found, discovering that he was impatient to reach America, resolved, for old acquaintance sake, that he should go home in a comfortable manner, and a cabin passage was secured for the party, in a vessel bound to London, and funds provided by them-lent, they termed it, or they could not have induced the old man to accept the money-to provide them a comfortable passage from England to America, and otherwise to defray their expenses. 
               One of these old friends insisted upon the party dining at his bungalow at Garden Reach; on the day before the ship sailed that was to bear them away: and after dinner was over, they entered into a conversation, relative to the singular adventures the old seaman had met with during his career. At length, the story of the murder of the New Zealand girl by Benson, was related, and Charles, while his father was telling the sad tale, drew from his pocket the locket, which had been found in Benson's pocket, after he had committed suicide by leaping from the ship's side into the sea, the captain of the ship having allowed him to retain possession of it, since he had appeared to recognise the features of a friend in the portrait. The locket was handed round to the assembled company, all of whom admired the beauty of the portrait. At length it came into the hands of an elderly gentleman of grave demeanor, and somewhat melancholy aspect, who had listened to the latter portion of the conversation with absorbing interest. 
               "Good heavens!" he exclaimed, when he saw the painting. "This, you say, was found in the possession of Benson, the murderer, of whom you speak, and was sold to him by a man named Hastings?" 
               "It was, sir," said Charles, greatly surprised at the vehemence of the quiet, staid old man. 
               "Do you recognize it as one you know?" Charles asked. 
               "I do, I do, young man. There is a sad tale connected with it; but take it back! take it back!" and he returned the locket to Charles. 
               Observing the agitation of the old gentleman, the subject of conversation was changed, and apparently he mastered his emotion. 
               Late in the evening the party broke up, but as Allen and Charles were about to leave the house, the old gentleman again addressed them. 
               "You sail for England to-morrow?" said he. 
               "We do, sir," replied Charles. 
               "Before you go, I should wish to see you. That portrait-your father's name-the name of Hastings-all bring things to my recollection I had hoped were forgotten. Promise me that you will see me to-morrow. 
               Charles, who was as anxious as the old gentleman, readily gave the required promise, and they shook hands and parted for the night. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
               THE ARRIVAL AT CALCUTTA LEADS TO AN EXPLANATION. 
               FAITHFUL to his promise, Charles waited upon the old gentleman, who had expressed so much interest in the portrait, on the following morning. The vessel in which the party were to sail for Europe, they were told, would be delayed for several days, in consequence of an unexpected accession of frieght; and consequently, Charles did not experience the anxiety he might otherwise have done at the idea of going to visit the residence of a stranger, and listening to probably a long story, on the eve of the vessel's departure. Strangely enough, he had not inquired the name of the old gentleman; and although he had been introduced to him by name of his host of the previous evening, he had entirely forgotten; if, indeed, he had ever caught it aright. However, by dint of inquiry, he learnt that it was Mildmay, and that he resided at a small villa on the city confines of Garden Reach-a fashionable suburban residence of the great capital of British India. 
               He had no difficulty in finding the house, and he reached it just as the old gentleman was about to sit down to "tiffin," as the lunch, a favorite meal in the East Indies, is termed. 
               He was invited to join the old gentleman, who was silent with regard to the object of the visit, until the meal was finished. Then bidding Charles remain seated, he asked him if he had the locket, the sight of which had so affected him the night before, in his possession. 
               Charles handed it to him. He sat attentively and silently regarding it for some time. At length he said: 
                
               "It must be the same, it is like in every particular. I can recall every lineament, although the appearance of the locket is altered in consequence of the jewelled setting having been removed. Young man," he continued, abruptly, "do you prize that portrait so highly, that you would be unwilling to part with it?" 
               "I only value it," said Charles, "because it resembles one whom I have left behind in my own country-one, indeed-" and the young man colored and hesitated, as he spoke "to whom I am engaged." 
               "It is the portrait of my wife," resumed Mr. Mildmay, "and was taken but a few months before her death-many, many years ago. It was the only one I ever possessed, and melancholy associations are connected with its loss. My poor Laura died at Bengalore, where I at that time filled a civil station in the Hon. East India Company's service, although by birth I am an American and a native of New York; where it is possible I may have relations still living: but I was a wild youth, and I went away to sea while still a mere child, and, after many adventures, settled in India, which I made, from that time, my home. For many years I thought occasionally of my friends; but I had resolved when I left, not to return home again, except in the possession of fortune; and when the fortune at last was made, I had been so many years absent without learning of my friends, and had acquired in India so many new ties, that I disliked the idea of leaving them in search of friends, who might be dead; or at any rate, had good reason to have forgotten me, as I had seemed to have forgotten them. But I am diverging from my story. It is enough for me to say, that I put off going home, or even writing, until the thought of returning was put off altogether. I had married, in Calcutta, the daughter of an English officer; she whose picture is painted on this locket. She died some six months after the portrait was taken, leaving me only one child-an infant daughter, whom I had named after her sainted mother. I need not say how deeply I loved that child; she was seldom out of my sight, when the duties of my office allowed me to be at home. But when she was about six months old, I was suddenly called away upon an important mission to the distant Presidency of Agra; and as the establishment at Bengalore was about to be broken up, I sent the child, in the charge of a faithful native ayah, to Calcutta, to reside at the house of a friend of her mother's until my return. This portrait, after my poor Laura's death, I had secured round the neck of the infant, attached to a valuable diamond necklace; and in addition to the funds I had placed in the hands of my banker on behalf of the child, I had made the ayah a handsome present in money, and had likewise entrusted her with a larger sum of money to defray any expenses that might be incurred on the journey and on their arrival in Calcutta, which I might not have foreseen in my arrangements. Poor Beebee! the possession of this money probably caused her death; although how it was known that she had the money in her possession, I never discovered. The caravan in which she travelled was attacked by robbers, when at a distance of several leagues from the city, and several days afterwards the rifled corpse of the ayah was found by the road-side; and near by, the bodies of the two coolies who had charge of the conveyance; thus proving conclusively that they were not concerned in the robbery. Indeed, they must have made considerable resistance, for their bodies were dreadfully mutilated, as well as that of the ayah, and the ground showed traces of the dreadful struggle that had taken place. But, my poor little Laura, there were no traces of her!" 
               The old gentleman here gave way to his emotion, and it was some time before he resumed his narrative, to which Charles had listened most attentively. At length he resumed. 
               "At this period, the horrible practice of Thuggery prevailed to a fearful extent, and for a long time it was supposed that the unfortunate party had fallen victims to these monsters. But subsequent events showed that such was not the case. 
               "News does not travel with very great rapidity in India, even now. In those days, it travelled slower still. It was three months after this dreadful event before I heard of it. I was then at Lahore, and the intelligence of the loss, and the probable dreadful fate of the only being upon earth I loved and cherished, was too great for me to bear. I hastily made arrangements to return to Calcutta; but I was stricken down with sickness, nearly unto death. The images of my lost Laura, and that of her dead mother, were constantly present to me during my illness, and, when the fever left me, insanity supervened; for nearly two years I was a maniac, in confinement at Lahore. 
               "At length, I recovered both my health and my sanity, and then I hastened to Calcutta, fearful that I was too late-fearful that my poor child had met the fate of its nurse, but still daring to hope that she might be alive, and that I might even succeed in recovering her. 
               "I made every inquiry that it was in my power to make; and endeavored in every possible way to investigate the circumstances connected with the robbery and murder of the nurse and the coolies: but for a long time in vain. 
               "At length, I learned that shortly after the murder, a vile wretch, named Hastings, had had a child in his possession in the Calcutta hospital, where he had lain for a long time very sick; and, that when he was supposed to be at the point of death, he had sent for a lady, the wife of a sea captain, then in Calcutta, and had persuaded her to adopt the child. Shortly afterward, he was arrested for committing some crime, in connection with another villain. Hastings was transported to Van Dieman's land, but his companion in guilt escaped that time. Subsequently, and after my return, he was convicted of another crime and sentenced to death. When on the scaffold, he related what I have mentioned with regard to the widow lady and the child, and confessed that he and Hastings had robbed the caravan, and murdered the coolies and the ayah, for the sake of the property, and had stolen the child. Why they had not completed their hellish crime, by murdering the innocent babe also, the wretch did not say. But they say, that a lingering spark of humanity remains in the heart of the most hardened. Perhaps they could not kill the innocent child, and perhaps they hoped to make an addition to their booty by obtaining a ransom for her. They had subsequently quarrelled, and it was from the fear of a threatened exposure that Hastings resolved to give up the child. At least, so said the guilty wretch, as he made this confession while awaiting his doom. 
               "Hope was renewed within my breast, when I heard that my child had not been murdered, although the testimony came from the lips of a wretch, who might well be doubted. But I renewed my exertions to discover whether the child was still alive, and if so, where she was living. After much difficulty, I discovered that the name of the widow lady was Allen." 
               "Allen!" interrupted Charles, no longer able to control himself, as he thought of the conversation his father had had a a few days before, with the old lady with whom his mother had resided after her escape from Borneo; "my name is Allen." 
               "Aye, I recollect," said Mr. Mildmay, "but the name is not an uncommon one. She could not have been a relation of yours." 
               Charles did not reply, but controlling his impatience with difficulty, anxiously waited to hear the conclusion of this strange recital. Mr. Mildmay resumed his narrative: 
               "I learnt," he repeated, "that the name of the lady, at the time she took the child under her protection, was Allen, and that the child was passed off by her as her own. Subsequently, she married a gentleman of the name of Denman-" 
               Again Charles started, and was about to speak; but he refrained frained, and the old gentleman, who had momentarily stayed his recital, thinking that the young man's agitation arose from the interest he took in the story, continued, "She had married a gentleman of the name of Denman, who at the time of his marriage, and until after his wife's death, believed the child to have been the daughter of his wife by her former husband; but I was told that he was undeceived shortly before he sailed for England. Nevertheless, he took the child with him, and thus I discovered, that some short time before I had arrived at Calcutta from Lahore, my poor little Laura, under the name of Laura Denman, had left the shores of India. 
               "However, there was sweet hope still left; I might yet again-nay, I would, I thought, claim and recover my daughter. I learnt the name of the vessel, and wrote to a friend in England, with whom I had been acquainted in India, enclosing a letter for Mr. Denman, narrating all the particulars that had come into my possession. I had no doubt, that when he had read the letter, and was satisfied of the justice of my claims, he would willingly return my little Laura to her father's arms. 
               "How anxiously I awaited the reply to these letters. It came at last-a letter with a black seal. A sickening sensation came over me when I received it-I foresaw that it threatened evil. I held it for some time in my hand, before I dared to open it, but at length I summoned courage, and broke the seal. My worst fears were more than realized; my friend wrote me that the 'Walmer Castle,' Indiaman, in which Mr. Denman and my little Laura were passengers, had been totally wrecked in a heavy gale of wind off Folkestone, and that it was supposed not a soul of all the hapless passengers and crew had been left to tell the tale. 
               "I never wrote again," continued the old gentleman, after having paused for a few moments in his recital, as the dreadful agony of that period of trial was recalled to his memory in all its horrors. "I never wrote again. For many years I lived on, careless of existence, my future a hopeless blank; but, at length, my mind in some degree recovered its tone, and, although I have always since been subject to fits of melancholy, I trust I have learned to place a Christian's trust in the goodness of the Almighty, to submit myself to His will, and to hope that I shall, in His good time, be re-united to my sainted Laura, and my darling child, in Heaven." 
               The old gentleman, in concluding his narrative, sat for some time in deep thought, while his lips moved, as if he were breathing a prayer. And Charles sat silent for a time, himself confused and overwhelmed with astonishment at the strange tale that had been unfolded to him. At length he said: 
               "Are you sure, Mr. Mildmay, that your infant daughter perished in the Indiaman?" 
               "Sure!" exclaimed the old gentleman. "Sure! Would my friend thus wantonly sport with my feelings? Besides, I some weeks afterwards read the report of the wreck in the shipping intelligence of a Liverpool paper that I received. Sure!-aye, too sure, young man-too sure-too sure." 
               "But is it not possible, sir, that one or two of the crew or passengers might have escaped, and perhaps your child was saved by them." 
               The old gentleman looked up. There was something in the tone of the young man's voice, which assured him that he had a reason in making this inquiry; but he replied:- 
               "No, no, young sir; do not seek to inspire me with false hopes, now that so many years have passed away, and the time is drawing near when I shall be called hence, to rejoin those dear ones I have lost-now that I have learned to school my mind to submit to God's just, though mysterious decrees, and to say with patience and submission, 'His will be done.' But why do you ask?" he exclaimed again, more earnestly. "Why do you look upon me thus? You can know nothing of the fate of my child?" 
               "I know, sir," exclaimed Charles, that the young lady who this portrait so strongly remembles, and for whose sake I alone set store by it, is living-or rather I should say, was living in America, when I sailed from thence, and her name is Laura Denman." 
               "Good God! It can not be possible," replied the old gentleman, "my poor Laura cannot be alive! It must be a mistake, young man," he continued, with an energy that he had not exhibited during the interview. "What of this girl; this Laura Denman, of whom you speak? You are a native of America, probably you are a native of the very place where you say this young woman lives. You must know something of the birth and family of this young lady, Laura Denman?" 
               "I have known Laura Denman since we both were children," answered Charles; but all that I know, with regard to her birth, is what she herself has told me. Until lately, I knew nothing of my own parents-the last time I spoke to Laura, she told me that she was ignorant of her's." 
               "With whom then does she live?" demanded the old gentleman, greatly agitated. 
               "With one Captain Martingale," replied Charles, "who has acted as her guardian, since she was an infant." 
               "It is strange, the name, and the resemblance to the portrait of my dear wife, and the ignorance of the lady with regard to her parents-all this adds strength to the young man's supposition," soloquized Mr. Mildmay-then again addressing Charles, he continued: 
               "Tell me, young man, tell me all you know relating to this person. Oh, God! if she should prove to be my long lost daughter." 
               Charles described the appearance of Laura, as well as he could picture her to Mr. Mildmay's imagination; and then related the conversation that had taken place between the old dame already mentioned and his father. 
               This was almost proof corroborative that Laura Allen, as the old lady called her, and Laura Denman, as she was known to Charles, was, in reality, the long lost daughter of Mr. Mildmay. 
                
               Charles, in one respect, felt a sensation of relief, for he had begun to fear that Laura was his sister; but at the same time, fresh doubts were engendered which caused him much uneasiness; Laura Denman, as he had supposed her to be, although an heiress, or considered to be such, in consequence of the little fortune she possessed, was not so far raised above him in social station, as to threaten any serious obstacle to their mutual love. He, by the practice of his profession, might very soon render himself more than her equal in wealth. But if she were really the daughter of Mr. Mildmay, the case was widely altered. The old gentleman was very wealthy, and Laura, as his only child, would be an heiress, in the general acceptation of the term. "Would she," he thought, "in her altered condition, still think of him-the poor law student, without friends or fortune-as she had hitherto done? and would her father give his consent to a union, in which there must be such a disparity of fortune between the parties?" 
               These thoughts flashed through his brain with the rapidity of lightning; and others entered as these passed away, equally perplexing. He was aroused from the reverie, however, into which he had fallen, by the voice of Mr. Mildmay, inquiring whether he knew the residence of the lady who had held the conversation, relative to Laura, with his father. 
               Charles started, and replied that he did, and at Mr. Mildmay's request, he at once accompanied him to the house. There the mystery, which had attached itself to the previous conversation with the old dame, was cleared up, and Mr. Mildmay left with almost a certain impression, that in Laura Denman, of Nantucket, he would discover his long lost child. 
               His mind was soon made up after this. He had resolved, as the reader is already aware, to spend the remainder of his days in India-where his youth and early manhood had been passed-since all his associations and recollections, with regard to the land of his birth, had long been deadened. But he had also made up his mind, that his latter days would be spent in loneliness and melancholy, and that he would die unwept and unmourned, his wealth alone creating an interest in him amongst his acquaintances, and that very wealth depriving him of any real sympathy; since amongst those who pretended to be his friends, there would only be strife, contention and jealousy, as to who should inherit his fortune, and in whose favor his will should be made. 
               Now all was changed with the old man. He might be disappointed-he might be building up false hopes which would never be realized; but still he felt that he had something to live for, and this anticipation, imparted a healthfulness and liveliness to his frame and features, and an elasticity to his mind, to which he had long been a stranger. He had almost became a misanthrope; not because he did not sympathize with his fellow men, but like many others, from an excess of sensibility, from a yearning desire to love, and a morbid feeling that the love he sought to bestow would not be appreciated. He felt that he was too rich to be loved. 
               The vessel in which Allen and Charles and Adillah was to set sail, had, as we have already mentioned, been delayed at Calcutta for a week. 
               That was a period sufficiently long to enable the old gentleman to make his arrangements, to leave Calcutta, and take his passage to America via England, and he took a passage for himself on board. 
               At the appointed time, the Indiaman sailed for Southampton and London. 
               Previous to their departure, Mr. Mildmay and Charles had written to Nantucket, to Captain Martingale, and as the letters would go by the overland mail, there was no doubt that they would reach their destination perhaps two or three months before the writers arrived in America. 
               They did so. They were received by Dr. Cheeseman, to whom Captain Martingale had left the management of his affairs, during his absence in England, and recognizing, greatly to his delight, the handwriting of Charles Allen in the direction of one of them, he immediately forwarded them both to Folkestone, where they arrived several weeks before the Indiaman, which was delayed at the Cape of Good Hope and St. Helena, reached Southampton. 
               Let us change the scene, and again return to Folkestone, where, some chapters back, we left Captain Martingale and Laura, just at the moment they had made themselves known to the good old vicar. 
               The old clergyman received Laura as his own child. He believed her, as the reader is aware, to be the daughter of his once darling Mary-and although, in the pride of his heart, he had once vowed that he would never recognize one who was, as he thought, a child of shame, and a living memento of his child's dishonor; all now was forgotten, and all the love the old man had once felt towards his erring daughter was now bestowed with redoubled intensity upon Laura. He could scarcely bear her to leave him for a moment during his waking hours, and he had so earnestly pressed her and her guardian to remain with him, at least for a time, that Captain Martingale, at Laura's urgent persuasion, had consented, and at the period when the letters, sent by Dr. Cheeseman from the United States were received, they had been domiciled upwards of a twelvemonth at the vicarage. 
               One morning, the captain and Laura had joined the vicar in a stroll along the summit of the cliffs, taking the path, where the accident had befallen Mary Pearce, as related in old Allen's narrative. They had just reached the precise spot, and the old clergyman was making some remarks upon the incident, which (by the way) he had often done before, when the postman was seen hurrying along on his way from Folkestone to Sandgate. 
               "Any letters for me, Tompkins?" asked the vicar. 
               "No, sir; but I have left two letters at the vicarage for Captain Martingale," replied the man. 
                
               "Letters for me, eh?" exclaimed the captain; "where from, Tompkins?" 
               "They bear the United States postmark, sir." 
               "Whew! the --," exclaimed the captain. "Two letters from America, eh? then we must return home, Laura, for I am rather anxious to hear from home. I have been expecting Cheeseman to write me for some time. But two letters! who can the second one be from, I wonder?" 
               "There is a prior postmark, sir," said the postman. "The letters have come from the East Indies to America, and have been re-posted there." 
               "From India!" exclaimed Captain Martingale. "Who can have written to me from India? I don't know any one there, that I am aware of;" and then the thought struck him that the letters bore some relation to his ward. 
               A similar idea struck Mr. Pearce, who fancied that they might contain some intelligence that would clear up the mystery which still hung over his grandchild's birth. The party, therefore, retraced their steps, and hurried home as quickly as possible. 
               The letters were opened by the captain, and read, with many interjections and exclamations of astonishment, and as soon as he had finished reading them, he placed them both in the vicar's hands. 
               "Captain Martingale," ran the letter from Charles, "you will be surprised, doubtless, to hear from me-I suppose, long before this, I have been given up as lost-if, indeed, any one has wasted a thought upon me." 
               Well he knew, when he penned this sentence, that Laura had spent many hours in thinking of him, and he anticipated that Captain Martingale would read the letter to Laura, or place it in her hand, for her to read herself. He dared not write directly to her, but he wrote at her, in this sentence. 
               "I left Nantucket, having been seized with an irresistible desire of adventure, and went to sea. Why should I not say at once, that I went on a strange, Quixotic errand, in search of my father. I have no doubt, you have heard of the mystery that enshrouds the period of my infancy. I never could believe that my father was dead; still it was unlikely, save a miracle were worked in my favor, that were he still in the land of the living, I should come across his path. Yet so it has strangely happened. I have found my father, in the person of an old seaman, who has long been confined on one of the most distant, and least frequented islands of the Pacific Ocean. I cannot, in the brief space of a letter, state how this strange rencontre was brought about, neither may it possess any interest to you; but I have other motives for now addressing you. Circumstances have led my father and I to Calcutta, whence we shall sail, in the course of a few days, for England, on board the "Colombo," East Indiaman, bound to Southampton and London, and as soon as we arrive in England, we shall take passage for America. I scarcely know how to relate what I especially have to say, and what has been the only motive of my present writing. I have startling information to convey in relation to your ward, Miss Laura Denman. I believe that our visit to this place has led, most strangely, to the discovery of her parentage, with which even you are probably unacquainted. At least, from what has occurred here, I should deem that to be the case. We met, a day or two since, an elderly gentleman, a native of the United States, who has made India his residence since his boyhood. His name is Mildmay, and he is reputed to be the possessor of immense wealth, and I think there can be little doubt that Miss Laura Denman is his daughter." 
               Charles here related the conversation which had taken place in India, which it is unnecessary to repeat, and concluded with various allusions to matters of a domestic nature, having relation to his friends in Nantucket, and with the expression of a hope soon to be among them again. 
               The letter from Mr. Mildmay gave a detailed account of his family connections in America, and his marriage and career in India, also stating the circumstances connected with the disappearance of his child, and the loss of the vessel in which she and Mr. Denman sailed from Calcutta, off the coast of Kent, with, as it was supposed, all on board. He thanked Captain Martingale for the care he had taken of the child, if, indeed, she should prove to be his long lost daughter, and, as Charles had done, expressed a hope shortly again to set foot upon his native soil. 
               "Good heavens!" exclaimed the vicar, when he had concluded the reading of the letters. "The proofs of identity are beyond a doubt. How strangely, how very strangely, does Providence work out its decrees! Thus is the innocence of my poor Mary proved; but in making the discovery of her innocence, I have lost you, my Laura, whom I have learnt to love as my own flesh and blood. But you will be my child, still," he continued, turning to the wondering Laura, and addressing her. "My Mary acted the part of a mother to you; you were her adopted daughter, and, as such, I claim you still, as my grandchild, although you have found a father. Let us thank God for all his mercies," and suiting the action to the word, the venerable clergyman knelt and prayed. 
               Laura was in a maze. It was long before she could comprehend how matters stood; but at last, after having listened to Mr. Pearce's and her guardian's explanations, and having read and re-read the letters, she began to see the matter more clearly. 
               "Then my name is Mildmay," she said, "and not Denman. Mildmay! Mildmay! that is the name of the young lady who so kindly befriended me in New York. Mr. Mildmay-I scarcely yet can call him father-states that he is an American, and that he has relations in New York. Can it be possible that I am related to Louisa Mildmay! And Allen!" she thought, but did not speak aloud, "Charles Allen; his mother was my foster parent. Thank God!"-and the thanks she mentally offered up were heartfelt-"thank God, that Charles is not my brother!" 
               There were yet many things to be explained, before every seeming mystery could be cleared up; but it was useless to speculate upon such matters. All that now remained, was to await the arrival of the vessel at Southampton, and to communicate with the passengers, so anxiously looked for, the very moment of her arrival, lest they should leave the ship at that port, and immediately take passage for America. 
               They anxiously waited some weeks, daily examining the shipping intelligence in the newspapers. Meanwhile, the delay, though irksome, was of service to them all. They had time to consider matters, and to reconcile discrepancies, which necessarily forced themselves upon them, in a case so singular as this; and before the ship arrived, Laura had learnt to call Mr. Mildmay father, and to await, with impatience, the moment when she should throw herself into his arms, with a heart overflowing with filial love, long pent up; but now ready to spring forth and yield a rich harvest. And Charles-she did not say so in words-but her heart beat tumultuously, when she thought of seeing him whom she had, indeed, begun to despair of meeting again. 
               At length, the vessel's arrival in channel was reported. Captain Martingale was sitting at breakfast, in the parlor, with Mr. Pearce and Laura, diligently conning the newspapers, as usual, when, suddenly, he started from his seat, upsetting a cup of tea on the table-cloth, and knocking a plate off the table, to the floor. 
               "Good news, at last!" he exclaimed. "Now, for Southampton, without a moment's delay;" and he read, aloud, from the paper- 
               "Arrived at the Motherbank, last night, and cast anchor, the Hon. East India Company's ship, "Colombo," from Calcutta. This vessel will go into Southampton to-day, and will probably remain a few days, for the purpose of discharging a portion of her cargo, after which she will proceed on her voyage to London." 
                
               The paragraph was listened to by all, with intense interest, and immediate arrangements made for the entire party to proceed to Southampton. They reached there that evening, and found that the Indiaman was still at anchor on the Motherbank, but were told that she would come into port next day. 
               Taking beds, for the night, at an hotel, they anxiously awaited the morning; and, as soon as it was daylight, hastened to the pier. 
               The Indiaman was just hauling in; and, standing on the poop, eagerly watching the shore, was a group of passengers, amongst whom the quick eyes of Laura discovered the figure of Charles Allen. 
               It was with difficulty she refrained from giving vent to an audible expression of delight, and she became so nervously excited that her frame sensibly trembled, as she hung upon the good vicar's arm. 
               The old clergyman sought to inspire her with fortitude to meet her father, little thinking, good man, that there was another on board the Indiaman, whose presence caused her heart to beat, and her pulses to thrill, with an emotion, more sympathetic, perhaps, than that excited by the anticipated meeting with Mr. Mildmay. 
               At length, the gangway-boards were laid down, and the passengers eagerly stepped on shore, glad, once again, to set their feet on terra firma.
                
               Amongst them Captain Martingale soon recognised Charles Allen, and seeing him accompanied by and old, weather-beaten man, and an elderly gentleman of quiet aspect, he doubted not that these were the father of Charles, and Mr. Mildmay. There was also with them a beautiful girl, who attracted much attention from the lookers on; but as nothing had been said of Adillah in either of the letters, the captain and the vicar, to whom he had pointed out the group, surmised that she was some young Indian friend or relative of Mr. Mildmay. 
               The party were on the point of engaging a carriage to take them to the hotel, when Captain Martingale stepped up, and taking Charles, to the utter amazement of the latter, by the hand, gave it a hearty shake, and welcomed him to England. 
               The next moment Charles's astonishment was redoubled, as he caught sight of Laura, who, unable longer to control her feelings, advanced to him and taking his other hand, pressed it warmly, and blushingly added her welcome to that of the captain. 
               "Good heaven!" exclaimed the young man. "How-what is this? Captain Martingale, Miss Denman here-in England-" 
               Mr. Mildmay had been looking on at the scene, also, with astonishment depicted in his features. He now caught the sound of Laura's name, and though he could not conceive how the strange and unexpected meeting had occurred, he recognized in her blushing countenance, the features of his long deceased wife. 
               Heedless of the crowd, and of the smiles of the lookers on, he rushed towards her, and caught her in his embrace. 
               "My daughter! My daughter! My long lost Laura!" he exclaimed, while tears of unutterable joy streamed down his furrowed cheeks, and he strained the now weeping girl again and again to his bosom. 
               It was no place for explanations there. A carriage was procured, and the whole party were conveyed to a hotel, where, for the present, we shall leave them to their mutual congratulations. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV. 
               THE GATHERING AT THE HOTEL AT SOUTHAMPTON. 
               IT was a strange gathering at the hotel in Southampton, that day, when the life-long separated father and daughter, and the long parted lovers, and the supposed grandfather, and the half bewildered guardian of the fair girl, whose prospects had undergone so material a change, learnt by degrees, how singularly they had thus been brought together, and how each and all had been deceived and mistaken with regard to the other. In the first tumultuous excitement, it was impossible to explain anything. Every attempt at explanation, only appeared to lead to fresh bewilderment; but at length, when all were able to listen calmly to the several relatives, matters were more clearly understood, and although many things still appeared mysterious, it was hoped that all would, eventually, be satisfactorily explained. 
               It was long before Captain Martingale could be made to credit the villainy of Benson; but, at length, when no longer able to doubt that the man, to whom he wished to give his ward, was both a pirate and a murderer, the old captain swore that he would never place faith in human being again. Old Allen and the captain each recognized the other, before they had been many minutes in each other's society. (The reader will recollect that Allen had sailed as mate under the command of Captain Martingale, after his misfortunes in India, and that it was from on board his ship that the boat had been lost, and Allen, after drifting several days on the ocean, had been cast ashore on the Island of Mattao.) Captain Martingale perfectly recollected this incident, indeed, it was one well calculated to have made an impression on his mind. 
               "We kept the old ship boxing about for a week, in the hope of finding the boat," said the captain, alluding to this incident, "and it was not until every hope was exhausted, that we gave up the search. You were clean out of sight in the gloom of the night, before the boat was missed from alongside." 
               Old Allen was asked to relate his romantic story to the captain and the vicar and Laura; and when he spoke of his love for Mary Pearce, and of his having saved her at the risk of his own life, the vicar could not control his emotion. He rose from his seat, and took the old seaman's hand within his own. 
               "Mr. Allen," said he, "I acted foolishly, sinfully, in refusing to forgive my daughter after her marriage to you. Had I done as I ought to have done, all this future misery might have been spared me and you, and my poor Mary might now have been living to comfort me in my declining years. But forgive me, Mr. Allen; I am a very old man, and at farthest, a year or two more will close my earthly pilgrimage. You are also growing into years, but you are much younger than I. You may be spared for years to come. Think not harshly of me when I am gone; but reflect that I met with bitter punishment in this life, in the loneliness and sorrow I endured. Forgive me, for the sake of Mary, whose memory you still love." 
               "Why, for the matter of that," replied old Allen, wiping his eyes with his handkerchief, and blowing his nose so loudly, that the sound resounded through the room like the blast of a trumpet-"For the matter of that, Mr. Pearce, it is you that have to forgive me for running away with Mary. It was wrong, I know; and poor Mary and I often talked the matter over together. She would have given the world to have been reconciled to her father, poor thing; but let's say no more about it, Mr. Pearce-it's past and gone now, and poor Mary's in Heaven. Let us hope that we shall both meet her there." 
               "Amen," responded the vicar, and from that moment the subject was not mentioned again. 
               Captain Martingale, and Allen and his son, held frequent conversations with regard to Mr. Baxter, whose conduct yet remained to be explained. But they could arrive at no satisfactory result. It appeared evident that this man had acted fraudulently, but still nothing could be done in the matter, until he could be brought face to face with old Allen, and then it was doubtful, whether, from the length of time that had occurred since the event, and the lack of any evidence of the fraud, save the word of the old sailor, could be obtained any redress. 
               Charles Allen made anxious inquiries respecting his friend, Doctor Cheeseman, who, it will be recollected, advanced him the means to carry out his wish to travel. He was informed that when last he was heard from, the old doctor was well, and that he appeared as if he would never grow any older. Captain Martingale said that he looked as young when he left Nan-tucket, as he had done when first he took up his residence there, and was as great a favorite with both old and young, as ever he had been. 
               Poor little Adillah found herself rather at a loss for companionship, during the first few days that her father and brother took up their temporary residence at Folkestone vicarage, for every one of her party was engrossed with matters of such moment, that she gained little attention; but after the first excitement had passed away, the gentle and unsophisticated, yet naturally lady-like manners of the Pacific Island maiden, rendered her a general favorite, and drew the attention of the ladies of the town of Folkestone to her. She soon became a lion in society, and scarcely a party was given, to which the Island maiden was not invited. 
               After three weeks had been spent, very happily, at the vicarage, Captain Martingale and old Allen began to grow anxious to return home. The stay of the captain and his ward had already been lengthened far beyond their original intention, and Allen and Charles were also desirous of again setting foot on American soil. Laura Denman had become so strongly attached to the vicar, whom, until the arrival of Allen and Charles, and her father-Mr. Mildmay-she had supposed to be her grandfather, that she was unwilling to leave the old gentleman again to the solitude, which he had often, in his conversations with her, feelingly deplored. One day, when Laura and Charles were walking together on the summit of the cliffs, she broached this subject. Charles, with all the ardor of a youthful lover, had been urging upon her a speedy return to the United States, for it had been arranged, that, as soon as possible after their return, their marriage should take place, with the glad consent of all who had any right to a voice in the matter. 
               "But, dear Charles," said she, "how can I leave my grandfather, Mr. Pearce, I mean? I know, now, that he is no relation to me, yet I have learnt to love him as though he were really my grandfather. He is old and feeble. How can I leave him again to the solitude, which, in private conversation with me, he has often so deeply deplored?" 
               "And, therefore," said Charles, "our marriage is to be delayed, in consequence of the old gentleman's desire to retain you at the vicarage. I must say, I think that is very hard." 
               "You take a very matter-of-fact view of the case, Charles," said Laura, amused, in spite of herself, at her lover's lugubrious air. "I have promised to marry you within three months-only on your earnest solicitation-and you think that, or the sake of that promise, I should ruthlessly forsake the old gentleman, who, though not my grandfather, is certainly the father of one who is the only mother I have ever known. But I will not be cruel, Charles; I have resolved to remain at the vicarage. I could not resist the appeal that the good old clergyman made to me this morning; but this I also promise, that, at the expiration of the three months, I will become your wife, if you, too, remain. Let Captain Martingale and your father go to the United States, since it appears necessary that they should return; and as my accepted lover-as Mr. Pearce knows you are, for I told him so-remain with me here. I have an invitation from himself. Mr. Pearce, Charles, wishes you to remain." 
               What more could be said by Charles? He would have proved himself a very recreant knight, indeed, had he offered any objections to a request such as this from the lips of her he loved, and he gladly signified his willingness to remain. 
               "And, Adillah, too," continued Laura. "Mr. Pearce's invitation, in case of your acceptance of it, extends likewise to her." 
               "I have no doubt," replied Charles, "that when I mention the matter to my father, he will readily consent to Adillah's remaining with me." 
               "Then we will consider that subject finally settled," said Laura, laughing. "And now, Charles, I have something else to say. Nay, don't look so serious. It does not concern you at all. Nevertheless, it is a matter in which I am highly interested. My father's name is Mildmay, and so is mine, I suppose, though I cannot fancy the idea of signing myself otherwise than Laura Denman-" 
               "Until you sign yourself, 'Laura Allen,'" interrupted Charles. 
               "Exactly so," continued Laura. "Perhaps, I may learn in time to get used to that; but that will depend upon your conduct, sir." 
               "Then I am sure you will soon get used to it, replied Charles." 
                
               "So you say. Fine promises," said Laura, smilingly. "We shall see how you perform them. But I am forgetting the matter respecting which I was about to speak. My father's name is Mildmay, and he says that he is a native of the city of New York, and that he, he believes, has relatives there at the present time. When I ran away from my guardian, to New York, Charles, a young lady, named Louisa Mildmay, received me with kindness, and gave me a home. When Captain Martingale came to New York and found me, engaged as a governess, I told him of the kindness of this young woman, and he was introduced to her, and was so pleased with her manners and appearance, that he promised to befriend her, should it lie in his power. He would have offered her money, but she is proud though poor, and I dissuaded him. I made her some valuable presents; but I had to be cautious how I made them, so as not to offend her delicacy. Now to the point. Is it not possible, that the young lady may be the daughter of my father's brother-he had a brother in New York-and if it should turn out to be the case, Louisa Mildmay, who so generously befriended me in the hour of my distress, is my cousin." 
               "It may be the case," said Charles. "There is reason in what you urge, still the name of Mildmay, though not common, is not so uncommon as to render it impossible that there should be half a dozen families in a large city like New York, of that name, who bear not the most distant relationship to each other." 
               "Still, I should like to speak to my father upon the subject. He will shortly leave for New York, and I should like him to see Louisa. Captain Martingale will, of course, see her and old Mrs. Connolly." 
               "And who may old Mrs. Connolly be, Laura?" asked Charles. 
               "Another person who befriended me in New York," replied Laura. 
                
               "Indeed! you seem to have fallen amongst good Samaritans there, Laura." 
               "I met with several friends," was the reply, "but all of them had themselves known poverty." 
               "Well, I advise you, if you really think there is any probability that this young lady is any relation of your's, to mention the subject to your father," replied Charles. 
               The conversation then took another turn. The relation in which the young people then stood towards each other, gave them a sufficient supply of interesting subjects to converse upon, and when they returned to the vicarage, Laura took the first opportunity to speak to her father about Louisa Mildmay. 
               Mr. Mildmay listened with interest to his daughter's story. 
               "And this young lady, Louisa Mildmay, told you that her father was once a wealthy merchant in New York?" he asked, in reply to some remark of Laura's. 
               "Yes, sir, and that he was ruined through the villainy of a man named Benson." 
               "Benson!" interrupted the old gentleman. 
               "Yes, sir, Benson. It is singular-the name is not a common one-perhaps it was the same man who once persecuted me with his addresses, and who leaped overboard from the vessel that Captain Allen and Charles were on board of in their passage from New Zealand to Calcutta." 
               "Benson!" repeated Mr. Mildmay. "Benson! Some years ago, I was visited by a man, bearing that name, who brought me some information, as he pretended, respecting my brother in New York, whom he represented to be in a condition of extreme poverty, and I entrusted him with a letter and money-for he could not tell me where to address to my brother, but said he should certainly find him when he returned to New York. It was but a trifle-little to what I would subsequently have sent, had I heard directly from my brother; but shortly afterwards, I discovered, that this man, Benson, was of infamous character, and that he had been spending for his own purposes the money he had obtained, under false pretences, from me. I therefore considered that his story was a fabrication, and made no further inquiry into the matter; but now, your remark that Benson was concerned in the ruin of Miss Louisa Mildmay's father, leads me to believe that it may be as you suppose, and that the young lady is my niece and your cousin. Depend upon it, I shall make inquiry for her, when I reach New York." 
               "Which will not be for some time yet," said Laura. "Had you not better write?" 
               "I certainly don't intend to leave Folkestone until after your marriage takes place," replied Mr. Mildmay, smilingly. "But, my dear, you know this young lady's address-suppose you write, and ask her to furnish you with her father's Christian name, and such other information respecting her family as she is able to give. You can let her know, of course, the reason of your making the inquiries." 
               "I will do so," said Laura, and here, for the time, the conversation ceased. 
               Laura wrote to Louisa, as she had promised her father, and a few weeks more passed away. Captain Martingale and old Allen were on the eve of their departure for America, and Mr. Mildmay was to follow them thither as soon as he had witnessed the marriage of his daughter to Charles Allen. Charles and Laura had arranged, as the reader is aware, to remain, at least for some time after their marriage, at the vicarage. And now Laura was busy making preparations for her wedding. Her father had generously supplied her with money for that purpose, and all appeared couleur de rose, as regarded her future prospects. 
               Mr. Mildmay had learned to know of how little value is money, merely in itself-and the fears of Charles Allen, that Laura's accession to wealth would cause a change in her sentiments towards him, had happily proved to be groundless. It wanted but five weeks now to the day appointed for the wedding to take place. Captain Martingale and Allen were to depart for London, to take passage for New York, in the course of a day or two-and a party of Mr. Pearce's friends had assembled at the vicarage to spend the evening with them before they left. How little do we know what a day or an hour may bring forth. In the midst of our animated conversation, relative to some one of old Allen's adventures, the vicar suddenly complained of feeling faint. He essayed to rise him from his chair, but fell forward while in the act, and would have fallen to the floor, had he not been caught by Captain Martingale in his arms. He was carried to the sofa, speechless and insensible. Doctor Major, the mayor of Dover, was present at the party, and he immediately applied such measures as he thought most advisable to restore the old clergyman, but in vain. He attempted to bleed a vein, but the blood would not flow. The good old vicar was dead. He had been seized with a fit of apoplexy, though probably the attack was the result of extreme old age and the failure of his physical powers, while he still persisted in the performance of his clerical duties. The brain was thus over excited, while the body was unable to support the stress that was thus applied to it. 
               A scene of confusion and dismay ensued, but the guests, with the exception of one or two of the most familiar, hastened to their several homes. 
               There was lamentation and mourning in the town and neighborhood, when the sad intelligence was made public-for the vicar had been greatly respected and beloved by all his parishioners; by the poor of his parish he was almost idolized. 
               Three days after his death, the funeral, which was attended by nearly all the male residents of the parish, gentle and simple, took place, and then the clergyman's solicitor read his will. The good old man had for many years been alone in the world. He had died at the age of ninety, and had outlived all his young relations. With the exceptions of some legacies to his servants, sufficient to maintain them in comfort for the remainder of their lives-they were all nearly as aged as their master-and some donations to the poor of the parish, all the vicar's property was left to his grand-daughter, Laura Denman, as she was termed in the will, and thus Laura unexpectedly succeeded to a moderate fortune in her own right; for the vicar's private fortune, independently of the income of the vicarage-which, by the way, he had always dispensed in charities-amounted to 1,000 per annum. 
               This sad event threw a gloom over the prospects of the approaching wedding. The successor to the "living" of Folkestone was expected every day to arrive and take possession of the vicarage, and it would have seemed a mockery to have celebrated a marriage in a house which had been so lately a place of mourning, especially since there was nothing of moment to call for its celebration; and, therefore, it was resolved that the whole party should now take passage for New York, and, that the wedding should take place in Nantucket, as soon as convenient, after their arrival. It was only necessary for them to remain at Folkestone, until arrangements were made with Mr. Pearce's late auditor, to take the management of the property left to Laura, into his hands; and this arrangement being easily effected, within three weeks after the funeral, Laura Denman and her friends sailed from London for New York. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXV. 
               RETURN TO NEW YORK. 
               LET us now return to New York and see how Louisa Mildmay has progressed, during the long period that we have lost sight of her, while following the fortunes of other of the numerous individuals whom we have introduced to our readers, at various intervals during the progress of our story. 
               A hard lot was poor Louisa's, working as we have shown she did, often from dawn till midnight, for a mere pittance, barely sufficient to keep body and soul together-stitch-stitch-eternally from gray dawn till the midnight chime. An everlastingly dull monotony-till the eyes grew wearied, and the senses bewildered with an ever recurring sameness-no future hope in this world, that brighter days would ever come to cheer existence. Still, Louisa Mildmay was but one out of thousands in this city, who are doomed to the same hopeless toil, unsympathized with, uncared for, left to live in poverty and drudgery unknown to the slave of African blood, and to die unlamented-and be forgotten. 
               Louisa often thought, while busied in her slavish employment, of Laura, and wondered if she should ever hear from her again. Often, when of an evening, Bridget Connolly would visit her, bringing with her a bundle of needlework with the pretence of employing herself in sewing, but with the real object of taking tea with the poor seamstress, and while giving her an opportunity of husbanding her own scanty stores, providing such a strong cup of tea, and such other viands, as the poor sewing girl would otherwise never partake of, they would sit, Louisa and her humble, but generous friend, and talk over old times, when Laura formed an addition to the lowly companionship of their hearth. 
               One evening, Bridget Connolly made her appearance earlier than usual, and there was evidence in her manner that something of an exciting nature had occurred, for the good old soul had very little ability to conceal her emotions, whether they were born of joy or sorrow-so singular, indeed, was her conduct, as she sat uneasily on her chair-evidently anxious to be questioned as to the cause of her excitement-that, at length, Louisa asked her what was the matter. 
               "Sure I've been to the post-office to-day, darlint," was her reply. 
               "Indeed?" answered Louisa, who was aware that the post-office was seldom visited by her humble friend; "have you received a letter? You have heard news from Ireland, I presume. Perhaps some of your old friends are coming out. Is it so?" 
               "No, you're quite in the wrong, Miss Louisa," replied Bridget. "Guess again, honey. I've heard no news; but p'raps I've got some news in my pocket, for all that." 
               "Indeed, I am quite at fault," replied Louisa; "I cannot possibly have any idea of your meaning." 
               "Maybe you would, if you were to see the letther," said Mrs. Connolly; "you would understand me betther." 
               "Then why not show me the letter," replied Louisa, smiling; "that would set the matter at rest at once." 
               "Well, then, so it would," said Bridget. "I'll tell ye how it was, Miss Louisa. To-day, a good, honest man, who keeps a stall next me in the market, and is mighty smart, and can read writing like a book, he says, 'Misthress Connolly,' says he-for he's always mighty civil is Misther Farrell-'Misthress Connolly,' says he, 'I was lookin' over the post-office directhery in the newspaper, to-day-for I'm expectin' a letther from the ould folks in Galway-and what should I see notified there, but a letther for Miss Louisa Mildmay, to the care of Misthress Connolly, No. 29 Greenwich street, New York. Now as I know you removed from your old place of residence, to higher up on the opposite side of the street, a couple of months ago, I thought that the postman, maybe, couldn't find ye out, and so this letther was sent back to the post-office, and put in the list. 
               "'Sure, and it must be as ye say, Mr. Farrell,' says I, 'and I'm mightily obleeged to ye for the throuble ye've taken to read over the list of letthers, for my eyes are getting wake, and I can't well read the newspapers myself-forby I never see 'em.' You see, honey, I didn't think it would be besaming of me to tell Misther Farrell, that I never could read only the spelling-book-'and I'll go this very afternoon,' says I, 'and redame the letther.' 
               "And Mr. Farrell says: 'You'll do well in doing that same, Misthress Connolly, if it's only for the sake of the swate crayture, Miss Louisa, who I've often set eyes on, at your house; and who anybody can tell is a born lady.' So I went, darlint, and got the letter, and now can't ye guess who it's from?" 
               "Indeed no," replied Louisa, "but if you show it me, and allow me to open it, I can, no doubt." 
               "Suppose it should be from Miss Laura Denman?" said Bridget. 
               "It's not very likely," answered Louisa; "but if you show me the letter, the matter can very soon be set at rest." 
               "I will, dear," said Bridget, at last drawing the letter from its hiding-place in her capacious pocket; "I can't read writing, Miss," she continued, "but I've often seen Miss Laura making skarts with her pen, and when I see anything, I recollect it afterwards. The letther's from the ould counthry, darlint, and if those up and down marks and flourishes ain't been made by Miss Laura Denman, my name's not Bridget Connolly." 
               She handed the letter to Louisa, who no sooner saw the hand-writing, than she exclaimed: "It is indeed from Laura!" And with trembling hands she proceeded to break the seal. 
               "Ah, Bridget Connolly knows something," said the old lady, as she watched Louisa reading the letter, with earnest attention. 
               When the seamstress had finished the perusal, she looked up, and seeing the curiosity of Bridget depicted in her face, she said: 
               "You would like to hear what Laura says, Mrs. Connolly?" 
               "If it's all the same to you, Miss, and there's no private saycrets." 
               "There are none," replied Louisa, "and surely you have a right to hear what our old friend says; after having taken all the trouble you have to obtain the letter; but for you, probably, I should never have received it. But I cannot understand its import myself." 
               Louisa then proceeded to read the letter aloud. 
               The purport of it was as follows:- 
               Laura stated that she had accompanied her guardian to England, and there met with an aged clergyman, whom she believed to be her grandfather, but whom subsequent events had proved to be no relation to her. She then said that she had met with a gentleman named Mildmay, recently from India, (she did not say that this gentleman had turned out to be her father, or that her real name was Mildmay), but she expressed her belief, from certain words she had heard fall from the lips of the gentleman in question, that he had relatives in New York, and that probably he himself was a connection of Louisa's. In order to satisfy herself of this, she desired Louisa to write to her immediately, and let her know whether she was aware of any of her relations having gone to India in early youth, whether her father had a brother, and if so, whether she knew where he was? or what he was doing? She said further that the gentleman in question would shortly be in New York, and would call upon her, and she hinted that he was a man of great wealth, and that if it turned out that he was her uncle, perhaps there were brighter days in store for her. The remainder of the letter consisted of allusions to friends she had known in New York; among whom Bridget Connolly was gratefully mentioned, and expressions of her desire to see her old friends again on her return to America, which she said would perhaps be within a year. But, as usual, she had put the gist of her letter in a brief postscript, and it was this postscript which puzzled Louisa. 
               It ran thus:- 
               "P. S.-Dear Louisa:-A word for your private ear. I am going to be married to the young man you heard me speak of, Charles Allen. The wedding will take place in about six weeks; and, Louisa, one other little word-what if I should turn out to be a cousin of yours?" 
               "And of course you will write to Laura?" said Bridget, when Louisa had concluded the reading of the letter. 
               "Yes, I shall certainly write, and furnish what information I can," returned Louisa. 
               "Do you think this gentleman, Miss Laura speaks of, is any relation of yours?" said Bridget. 
               "Indeed I couldn't say," replied Louisa. "My father certainly had a brother who ran away from home when a boy; and went to sea-whether to the East Indies or not, I cannot say. I believe they thought he was dead long ago-I seldom heard his name mentioned, except incidentally." 
               "Then what can you say of him?" asked Bridget. 
               "Nothing more than what I have told you," returned Laura. 
               "But the portion of the letter that I can't understand, is the postscript, in which Laura says, she may turn out to be a relation of mine herself. It is strange, too, that she should have met with Charles Allen in England. She does not explain how it has been that she fell in with him." 
               "Well, well," exclaimed Bridget, "let us trust to God's Providence, Miss Louisa, and believe that all things are ordered for the best. My advice is, that you write directly, dear, and then wait with patience, and see what'll come of it." 
               "I owe you a quarter of a dollar, for the postage of this letter," said Louisa, the recollection that Bridget had paid the postage out of her pocket, recurring to her; "I cannot give it to you now, but as soon-" 
               "Now, Miss Louisa, unless ye wish to offend me intirely, never let that pass your lips again," interrupted Bridget. "Sure and it's the laste I could do, to take the letther from the post for ye, and me had so much comfort in your society; but ye'll turn out to be a lady again yet, mark my words." 
               Louisa smiled doubtfully, as she resumed her work, but the news contained in the letter, formed the staple of conversation for the remainder of the evening. 
               Louisa wrote to Laura the following day, and the letter was received by the latter young lady, at the vicarage only two days before she was to leave England for America. As she was likely shortly to answer it in person, she did not write in reply. 
               She, however, submitted the letter to her father, and although the information it contained, was brief and imperfect, still it was comprehensive enough to satisfy the old gentleman, that Louisa Mildmay was the daughter of his elder brother, and that Laura was consequently the cousin of the young woman, who had so generously befriended her, according to the limits of her humble means, in the hour of her distress. 
               At the expiration of eight or ten weeks, from the period at which Louisa had written, she began to look with some degree of anxiety for a reply; for meagre as was the information received by her in Laura's letter, there was enough to excite her curiosity, and lead her to believe, that after all, the gentleman she spoke of, might prove to be her father's long lost, and, as was supposed, deceased brother. 
               One evening, just ten weeks to the day, from the date on which she had posted the letter, Louisa was sitting at work-alone in her humble apartment-her thoughts engrossed, as they had been of late, on the purport of Laura's letter, when she heard the sound of carriage-wheels passing through the now nearly deserted streets, for it was growing towards midnight, and every sound was audible, in the comparative stillness of the night. 
               However, this would not have caused her even to look aside from her work, had not the carriage suddenly stopped opposite the house. 
               Presently there came a ring at the bell, and while Louisa was wondering who it was, that could have arrived at that humble lodging-house in a carriage, at that late hour of the night, she fancied she heard her own name mentioned, and presently it was evident enough, that several persons were ascending the stairs. 
               Her heart beat audibly, though she knew not why. She held her breath, and let her hands fall listlessly into her lap, as she listened to the advancing footsteps. There came a knock at the door, and she rose and opened it. In another moment, she found herself in Laura Denman's embrace, and when she recovered herself from the glad surprise into which she had been thrown, she saw that there were several persons in the room. She recognized Captain Martingale; but there was another weather-beaten old man, and a youth, whom, even in the excitement of that moment, she suspected was Charles Allen; and a young and beautiful, but very dark complexioned girl; and a grave, stately old gentleman, of singularly dignified aspect, whose gaze was intently riveted upon her. 
               "Dear Laura, who are all these persons?" she whispered, as she cordially and tearfully returned her friend's embrace. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVI. 
               FURTHER EXPLANATIONS, AND DEPARTURE FOR NANTUCKET. 
               "THIS, dearest Louisa," replied Laura, pointing to the grave, stately gentleman, who was gazing so earnestly at Miss Mildmay, "this is Mr. Mildmay, my father; my name, dear Louisa, is Laura Mildmay." 
               "Your name, Mildmay!-this gentleman your father!" said Louisa, passing her hand across her brow; "am I dreaming? No, surely I am awake, and yet it seems impossible-this strange, unexpected meeting." 
               Meanwhile, Mr. Mildmay, who had been watching with intense interest, the changes in Louisa's countenance, asked in a tone of voice, trembling with emotion: 
               "Miss Mildmay, what was your father's Christian name?" 
               "Edward, sir," replied Louisa. 
               "Did you ever hear him speak of his brother?" 
               "I have heard him speak of a brother George, who went to sea, when a mere boy, and was never afterwards heard of." 
               "Miss Mildmay-Louisa," said the old gentleman, taking her hand in his, and giving her a paternal kiss on the forehead-"Miss Mildmay, your father was my brother-I am the George Mildmay, who ran away from home, and went to sea." 
               "Anybody could see that, with half an eye!" exclaimed Captain Martingale, who had been intently watching the group. "Why, Mr. Mildmay, you and Miss Louisa there, are as like as two peas-allowing for the difference in age and sex. Do you know, when I saw you first in England, something struck me, that I knew somebody, somewhere or other, who greatly resembled you. It was Miss Mildmay here, whom I saw before I sailed from New York with Laura. I was an old fool, not to have thought of the resemblance before, though, to tell the truth, I only saw Lousia-I beg your pardon, Miss Mildmay, I mean-I only saw you once." 
               "Then Laura is my cousin!" interrupted Louisa, placing her arm around Laura's waist, and kissing her cheek. 
               "Yes, dear; your own cousin," answered Laura, affectionately returning the embrace. "And this," she continued, "is Mr. Charles Allen," pointing towards the young man. "You have often heard me speak of Charles, Louisa? You must become acquainted with him. And this-introducing old Allen-"this is Charles's father." Adillah was standing, looking bashfully at the group, with astonishment depicted upon her features. Louisa glanced inquiringly at her, and then at Laura. 
               Laura understood the meaning of the glance. "This young lady," she said, taking Adillah by the hand, and leading her to Louisa, "is Charles's sister, Adillah. You will soon learn to love her, Louisa. But my father," she continued, "will wish to see you alone. We will retire for a time"-she suddenly checked herself, for she recollected that Louisa had no private apartment-indeed, that this was her only room. 
               At this moment, a heavy tread was heard upon the staircase, and presently-tapping lightly at the door, to announce her presence, and immediately opening it-Bridget Connolly entered the apartment. 
               "What is all this I hear, Miss Mildmay?" said she, taking Louisa's hand, heedless of the visitors. "I was just going to bed, when I heard a carriage stop at the door; and, looking out, heard a party ask for Miss Mildmay, and then saw them go up stairs. Somebody said they were some rich relations of yours. Oh, Louisa-Miss Mildmay, dear-my words have come out thrue, and ye'll be a lady again." 
                
               "They are, indeed, relations, dear Mrs. Connolly," answered Louisa. "I have found my uncle and my cousin. You know this young lady-my cousin Laura," she added, presenting Laura to the astonished fruit-woman. 
               "What, Miss Laura Denman!" exclaimed Bridget. "I'm dhraming, sure." 
               "No, you are not dreaming, Mrs. Connolly," replied Louisa. "It was some time, before I could persuade myself that I was awake. This gentleman"-directing the attention of Bridget to Mr. Mildmay-"is Laura's father, and my uncle." 
               "God be merciful to us!" piously exclaimed Bridget. "My words have come thrue. Miss Mildmay, darlint, ye are a lady again." 
               "Mrs. Connolly," interposed Laura, taking the honest old Irishwoman by the hand, "you must permit me to introduce you to my father. Dear father," addressing the old gentleman, "this is Bridget Connolly, whose kindness to Louisa and I, in our troubles and distresses, I have so often told you of." 
               "Mrs. Connolly shall not repent of her kindness to my daughter and niece," said the old gentleman, shaking hands with the bewildered old lady. "But I see that we are all tired, and playing at cross purposes to-night. My dear niece, I suppose you cannot leave your humble home to-night-to-morrow, we must find you a better lodging. We will leave further explanations until to-morrow. Then, Louisa, I will see you alone. As for the rest of us, we will return to the hotel where we have left our luggage. What is the name of the place-I forget?" 
               "The Astor House," said Captain Martingale. 
               "Ah, yes-that's it. Good-night, Louisa. Give your old uncle a kiss, before we part for the night, my love; and the old gentleman kissed the young lady. "And, good night, Mrs. Connolly," he continued; you, too, must spare me a few moments' conversation to-morrow." 
               Laura whispered in her father's ear. 
                
               "As you please, my child," he replied, smilingly; "I suppose you and Louisa have much to say to each other. But the lodging is somewhat humble, my dear." 
               "Humble as it is, dear father," returned Laura, "Louisa's home-as humble as this she now occupies-has sheltered me many a night, when I had no other place where to lay my head." 
               "All through your own obstinacy, though, you little gipsy," interposed Captain Martingale, good humoredly. "I shall have a long string of complaints to relate to your father, by and by." 
               Again, hands were shaken all around, and kisses exchanged; and Mr. Mildmay and Allen, and Charles and Adillah, left the two young women together, with Bridget Connolly, and returned to the hotel. 
               It was nearly daylight, before Laura and Louisa retired to rest. They sat up, chatting over old times, and the adventures that had befallen each, since they had parted, and Bridget bore them company. The old lady spoke but little, and that little only in ejaculations; but she listened eagerly to all that was said. 
               At length, they felt completely wearied out. The old Irishwoman retired to her own apartments below stairs, and the two young women laid down upon the humble bed, and were soon sound asleep. 
               They did not awake until a late hour in the morning, and it was only by making great haste, that they managed to dress themselves, and prepare for the reception of their expected visitors, by the appointed hour. 
               Mr. Mildmay came alone, observing that he wished first to talk with Louisa, and telling his niece and daughter, that the remainder of the party awaited them to dinner, at the hotel. 
               They spent a couple of hours in earnest conversation. Louisa was informed by Mr. Mildmay, that she must immediately diately quit her humble lodgings, and come and live with him and his daughter. 
               "Laura is going to leave me," he said smiling archly, "almost as soon as I have found her, and you, my dear niece, must come and be my housekeeper. Though, I suppose, by and by, you will be running away, too. I am a rich man, and have means enough to make both you and Laura wealthy. Laura, I presume, has told you that she is an heiress in her own right. You have had a hard lot, dear Louisa; but henceforward, let us hope for better times. 
               "And Bridget Connolly, dear father," interposed Laura. 
               "Shall be made comfortable, depend upon that, my love. By the by, before we leave this place, I should like to see the old lady." 
               "She has gone two hours since to her stall," replied Laura; "but you could call to-morrow, papa, with me, or we can leave word for her to call upon us at the hotel to-night." 
               "Do so, my dear," said the old gentleman; "and now I shall go back to the hotel, and tell the rest of the folks you are coming. Charles is anxious to see you, Laura, and also to make the better acquaintance of Louisa. Good bye, for the present. You must get ready to leave immediately, Louisa. Laura will stay and help you pack up, and before I go, I will arrange with the people below with regard to your giving up your lodging. I suppose you both know the way to the hotel?" 
               Both the girls assured him they did, and he quitted them, calling as he had promised, and arranging with the tenants of the house with regard to the rent of Louisa's humble room. 
               It did not take Louisa long to get ready, though she was so confused, that had it not been for Laura's assistance, she would scarcely have been able to pack up her scanty wardrobe. 
               But all was arranged at last. Word was left for Bridget to call at the Astor House, after her return home in the evening; and the work Louisa had in hand was packed up and sent back with a note, explaining sufficiently, her altered circumstances to her employers. 
               It was a happy party that day at the Astor House. Not much was spoken, for all felt-too joyous to speak, with the exception of Captain Martingale and old Allen, who retired to the bar-room after dinner, leaving the others to talk over their affairs, and solaced themselves with cigars and brandy and water, talking the meanwhile of old times and nautical matters. 
               In the evening, Bridget called at the hotel, and was shown up to the room occupied by Mr. Mildmay and his daughter. The old gentleman held a long conversation with the good old dame, and at Louisa's earnest request, seconded by Laura, she at length was induced to listen to the old gentleman's persuasions, and to consent to accompany them to their home, and reside with them as a favored dependant. But she could not be induced, notwithstanding she was strongly urged, to accept any pecuniary recompense for her disinterested kindness to the two young women, at the time they stood in so great need. 
               "She had enough of her own," she said, "and was long thinking of giving up her stall, and spending her old days in peace and quietness; but since they so much desired it, she would go and live with her two darlints." 
               Mr. Mildmay had already made up his mind to purchase a homestead in the sunny South, for he discovered that he should find the cold climate of the North too severe, after having so long lived in the East Indies; but before anything was finally settled, the whole party were to visit Nantucket, where there yet remained some explanations to be had with Mr. Baxter. Meanwhile, Bridget was to remain in New York; and to close up or dispose of her humble business to the best advantage. 
               The party remained in New York sufficiently long to rest themselves after their sea voyage, and during this period Mrs. Baker, hearing of Captain Martingale's arrival from England, sent her card to the hotel. No notice was taken of it, and then the lady called herself. But she was so coldly received-for Laura had told him how badly she had been treated by her when she was a governess in her family-that Captain Martingale could hardly be prevailed upon to treat her with common civility. She left in high dudgeon, muttering to herself that Mrs. Denby was like all beggars, when she found herself mounted up in the world; but for her part, she had always believed her to be a stuck-up hussy. 
               At length, the whole party started for Nantucket, where a surprise awaited Mr. Baxter, who had not received the least intimation of the return of Charles Allen, or even of Captain Martingale. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVII. 
               AN EXPLANATION AND A RECONCILIATION. 
               THERE was some commotion created in the quiet little community of Nantucket, by the arrival of Captain Martingale and his guests at Harpoon Lodge, and still more, when it became bruited abroad that Laura Denman had returned with her father, and that Charles Allen, long believed to be lost, had also returned, report said, with his father. 
               Dr. Cheeseman was delighted with the intelligence. The old gentleman lost no time in presenting himself at the Lodge. Charles heard and recognised his voice when he gave his name to the servant. In a moment, he flung himself out of the room, and met the old doctor in the hall. 
               "Dr. Cheeseman, I am truly glad to meet you again," he said, eagerly grasping the kind old gentleman's hand. 
               "Charles, my dear boy," was the response, "you come as one who rises from the grave. I never thought my old eyes would see you more. But what is this news, I hear? Why, the age of magic has returned; they say that you have succeeded in your Quixotic enterprise, and found your father. Is it so, indeed? And my old pet, Laura Denman-they say she is no longer Laura Denman, but Laura Mildmay, the daughter of an old Indian nabob-worth I don't know how many thousand rupees-and an heiress in her own right, besides. Is it so, boy?" 
               "All that you have heard is correct, Doctor," replied Charles. "Laura, you are aware, had a few thousand dollars of her own, to come into her possession when she became of age; but now she has an income of her own, exceeding annually, her original little fortune." 
               "Well, I am glad to hear it, boy. Laura was always a good girl, though a little self-willed and obstinate-the result of old Martingale's absurd views of education. But Charley, Laura's having become an heiress, makes no difference in your position with regard to her, I hope?" and the Doctor smiled archly. 
               "None at all. In fact, Laura is less haughty than she was, now that she is perfectly independent, even of her father, who, as you have heard, is rich as Crsus." 
               "I hear that that old scoundrel, Baxter-I speak advisedly, Charles, when I call old Baxter a scoundrel, I am confident I shall be borne out in my assertion by nine-tenths of the inhabitants of Nantucket-is in a great fright at the news. I fancy he has an account to settle with your father, Charles, from all that I can gather?" 
               "I believe he has," replied Charles. "Though I know little of the rights of the matter. But you are anxious to go up stairs, and I am keeping you chatting here." 
               "To be sure I am," answered the doctor. "I want to see Laura and congratulate her on her happiness in present and in prospective; and shake a flipper, as he calls it, with Captain Martingale. Lead the way, and introduce me, boy." 
               Charles did as he was requested, and Doctor Cheeseman was soon presented to and warmly welcomed by the entire party. 
               Laura and Charles, accompanied by Louisa Mildmay, made the tour of the little island, the two former renewing their acquaintance, and the latter making friends wherever she went, by the gentleness of her demeanor, and the beauty of her person. 
               Meanwhile, Mr. Mildmay and old Allen, too, complained bitterly of the bleak atmosphere of Nantucket, and wished to hurry to their prospective home, in the Sunny South, and it was arranged that their stay at Harpoon Lodge should be limited to three weeks. 
               Captain Martingale and Allen waited a few days in the hope that lawyer Baxter would present himself at the Lodge; but the old man felt the disgrace of his conduct so severely, that he dared not to come near them. A few days, therefore, before their departure, the old seaman, accompanied by Captain Martingale, called at the lawyer's office; they wished Charles to go with them, but the young man objected, and begged to be excused. 
               On being shown into Mr. Baxter's office, and confronted with that gentleman-or scoundrel-as Doctor Cheeseman had termed him, Allen asked if he recognized in him, the person, who, on the night of the wreck, many years ago, had entrusted his infant child and his property to his care. 
               "I do, Captain Allen," replied Baxter, after some hesitation. 
               "And how have you fulfilled the promise you made me then?" demanded the old sailor. 
               "Captain Allen," said Mr. Baxter, "I confess that I did wrong; I thought you were lost, and the $2,000 you entrusted to me, would, I thought, at that time, help me in establishing myself in my profession. I drew it in my name, on your account. The document you gave me allowed me to do this easily, and I used it for my own purposes; but I am not so guilty as you think. The money was entered by me in the name of the child; I resolved that he should be benefitted by its increase, if I succeeded; and I did succeed. Your son Charles, is now entitled to $7,000, the fair share of the $2,000 that I used. I have but one more action to blame myself for. I wished still to keep this money in my family, and to effect this, resolved that Charles should marry my daughter. I told him that I had the power, if he refused to do so, to make him a beggar; but I should not have carried out my threats. The young man, however, had fallen in love with Miss Denman, and, in a moment of rashful impulse, he quitted Nantucket, and I heard nothing more of him, until a few days since; but to show you that I am telling the truth, here are documents"-and he drew some papers from a drawer-"guaranteeing to Charles Allen, or his heirs, the sum of $7,000." 
               Allen and Captain Martingale examined the documents, and found they were as Mr. Baxter had stated. 
               "I forgive you, Mr. Baxter," said the former. "You committed an error, but you are not so guilty as I thought. Allow me to ask you one question. Are you a rich man?" 
               "Far from it," replied Mr. Baxter. "I am comfortably off, but I have yet to depend upon my profession for my support." 
               "Another question," said Captain Allen. "Miss Baxter-your daughter-is she married?" 
               "No, sir; but she is about to be married to a young farmer in Massachusetts. My daughter was not to blame, sir; she knew nothing of my purposes." 
               "I do not pretend to blame her," continued the old man. "Mr. Baxter, allow me now to be generous; I am sure I shall meet with Charles's good will in the matter. I shall accept of this seven thousand dollars-the two thousand dollars originally entrusted to you on Charles's behalf-the remainder, in the joint names of Charles and myself, I bestow upon your daughter as a marriage portion. Not a word," he continued, seeing that Mr. Baxter was about to express his thanks, and possibly to make some objection. "It is only the just tribute from a father, for the care you have taken of his son for many long years. With the single exception of Charles's having been persecuted to marry your daughter, against his will, he has always spoken highly of your conduct towards him." 
               Mr. Baxter was unable to reply. He wrung the hand of the old seaman, and Captain Martingale and Allen left the office together. All was now arranged for their return to New York; but the day before they set sail, Charles Allen was united in the bonds of matrimony to Miss Laura Mildmay, at Harpoon Lodge. 
               It was a day of festivity; all the friends and neighbors were invited, and nothing was spared to render the fete perfect. Mr. Mildmay, who insisted, in spite of the remonstrances of Captain Martingale, in bearing the whole expense, spared no money upon the occasion. 
               Two days afterwards, Mr. Mildmay and his daughter, and niece, and Captain Allen and his son and daughter, sailed for New York, where, after a favorable passage, they arrived in safety. 
             
             
               CONCLUSION. 
               WE resume our story after a lapse of five years. Mr. Mildmay purchased a handsome property in Georgia, and was living there with his family, in content and affluence. Charles Allen and his daughter resided with him, the former taking upon himself the active management of the estate. Miss Louisa Mildmay had been three years married to a young planter, and resided upon an estate about ten miles from that owned by Mr. Mildmay. 
               Adillah had, during this period, grown up almost to the perfection of womanhood. Her complexion was not darker than that of a Southern brunette, and her beauty was a general theme of admiration. She had had several suitors, and now was on the point of marrying one, in every way eligible, whose property adjoined that of Mr. Mildmay, at whose house old Allen and his daughter had lived since their removal to the South. 
               Bridget Connolly was regularly installed as housekeeper at Mildmay Hall, and was as happy as the day was long, beloved by the whole household, and loving every one. 
               Once a year, Captain Martingale paid a visit to Mr. Mildmay; he was often pressed to take up his residence in the South, but he always refused. He could not, he said, leave Nantucket, with which place all his old associations were connected. He was still a hearty, hale old man, and used, on the occasion of his visits, to spend most of his time with Captain Allen, chatting with the old seaman over old times. With regard to the latter, a residence of a few years in civilized society had brushed away the traces of hardship and exposure he bore, when he was first introduced to the reader, and he was generally respected by all with whom he was acquainted. 
               Charles Allen and Laura, at this period, had three children, and there seemed a likelihood of a fourth making its appearance, and Mr. Seton and his wife, Louisa Mildmay that was, had two little pets of their own, a boy and a girl, but the entire juvenile brood stood a good chance of being spoiled by the joint efforts of Mr. Mildmay and Captain Allen. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
