
    ----CITATION----
        Roe, Edward Payson, (1838-1888). What Can She Do? .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7661
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            What can she do? 
            
                 WHAT CAN SHE DO?  BY REV. E. P. ROE, AUTHOR OF "BARRIERS BURNED AWAY," "'PLAY AND PROFIT IN MY GARDEN., Hail honest toil, thy hard brown hand  May save the fairest in the land NEW YORK DODD, MEAD & COMPANY PUBLISHERS   Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873, by  DODD & MEAD, In the Office of the Librarian of Congres at Washington.   DEDICATION. IF I WERE TO DEDICATE THS BOOK IT WOULD BE TO THOSE GIRLS WHO RESOLVE THAT THEY- WILL NOT  PLAY THE POOR ROLE OF MCAWBER, THEIR ONLY CHANCE FOB "FE BEING THAT SOME ONE WILL "TURN UP" "   - WHOM THEY MAY BURDEN WITH THJrEOL HELPLESS WEIGHT.             .     PREFACE. THS book was not written to amuse, to create purposeless excitement, or secure a little praise as a bit of artistic work. It would probably fail in all these things. It was written with a definite, earnest purpose, which I trust will be ap- parent to the reader. I have nothing to say tending to disarm the. critics. They will speak their mind, as they ought, and it is wholesome for us to have our faults pbint- ed out. As society in our land grows older, and departs from primitive simplicity, as many are becoming- rich, but more poor, the changes that I have sought to warn against become more threatening. The ordinary avenues of industry are growing thronged, and it daily involves a more fearful risk for a woman to be thrown out upon the world with unskilled hands, an untrained mind, and an unbraced moral nature. Impressed with this danger by some- con-: siderable observation, by a-multitude of facts that   vi -PREFA CE. might wring tears from stony eyes, I have tried to write earnestly if not wisely. Of necessity, it touches somewhat on a subject delicate and difficult to treat-the " skeleton in the bloset" of society. But the evil exists on every side and at some time or other threatens every home and life.  It is my belief that Christian teachers should not timidly or loftily ignore it, for, mark it well, the evil does not let us or ours alone. It is my belief that it should be dealt with in a plain, fearless, manly manner. Those who differ have a right to their opinion. There is one other thought that I wish to sug- gest. Much of the fiction of our day, otherwise strong and admirable, is discouraging in this re- spect. In the delineation of character, some are good, some are bad, and some indifferent. We have a lovely heroine or a noble hero developing seem- ingly in harmony with the inevitable laws of their natures. Associated with them are those of the , commoner or baser sort, also developing in accord- ance with the innate principles of their natures. The first are presented as if created of different and finer clay than the others. The first are the flowers in the garden of society, the latter the weeds. According to this theory of character, the heroine must grow as a moss-rose and the weed remain a , t   PREFA4CE.       . Vii weed. Credit is not due to one; blame should not be visited on the other. Is this true? Is not the choice between good and evil placed before every human soul, save where ignorance and mental feebleness destroy free ageficy? In the field of the world which the angels of God are to reap, is it not even possible for the tares to become wheat? And cannot the sweetest and most beautiful natural flowers of character borrow from the skies a- fragrance and bloom that is not of earth? So God's inspired Word teaches me. I have turned away from many an exquisite and artistic delineation of human life, sighing, God might as well have never spoken words of hope, warning, and strength for all there is in this book. The Divine and hLman Friend might have re- mained in the Heavens, and never come to earth in human guise, that He might press His great heart of world-wide sympathy against the burdened,  suffering heart of humanity. He need not have died to open a way of life for all. There is nothing here but human motive, human strength, and earthly destiny. We protest against this narrowing down of life, though it be done with the faultless. skill and taste of the most cultured genius. The  children of men are not orphaned. Our Creator is still "Emmanuel-God with us." Earthly existence is but the first notes in the prelude of our life, and.   :Viii       PREFACE. -even from this the Divine artist can take much of the discord, and give an earnest of the eternal harmonies. We all are honored with the privilege of "-co- working with Him." If I, in my little sphere, can, by this book, lead one father to train his children to be more strong and 'self-reliant, one mother to teach her daughters a purer, more patient, and heroic womanhood-if 1 have placed one more barrier in the tempter's way, and inspired one more wholesome fear and prin- ciple in the heart of the tempted-if, by lifting the dark curtain a moment, I can reveal enough to keep one country girl from leaving her safe native village for unprotected life in great cities--if I can add one iota toward a public opinion that will honor useful labor, however humble, and condemn and render disgraceful idleness and helplessness, however gild- ed-if, chief of all, I lead one heavy-laden heart to the only sourceoof rest, I shall be well rewarded, whatever is said of this volume. 7  -   CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. Three Girls * .  - .  CHAPTER II. A Future of Human Designing . - .  CHAPTER II.  Three Men -     ...,. 28 CHAPTER IV. rhe Skies Darkening - .43 CHAPTER V. The Storm Threatening - .  .   58 CHAPTER VI. The Wreck -  .  ...       " CHAPTER VII.       - Among the Breakers         95- CHAPTER VIII. WRarped .*-    -        s  n       ,   X          CONTENT$S. CHAPTER IX. PA6 A Desert Island        S        * 34 CHAPTER X. Edith Becomes a Divinity  -  "  CHAPTER XI. Mrs. Allen's Policy   -  .  -    -   170 CHAPTER XII. Waiting for Some One to Turn up   -  -    181 CHAPTER XIII. They Turn up   -        -    .  .a CHAPTER XIV. We Can't Work   .-    "  .. * .      t2 CHAPTER XV. The Temptat!on -   -  -            23s CHAPTER XVI. Black, Hannibal's White Heart .-  -      Z6 CHAPTER XVII. The Changes of Two Short Months -         2* . 26 CHAPTER XVIII. -Ignorance. Looking for Work   .  -  -  .  286   **                         ' -   e   CONTENTS.     *     x CHAPTER XIX. PAsb - A Falling Star - *           *   295-' CHAPTER XX. Desolation- -. -  -       .  .  *  30o -CHAPTER XXI. Edith's True Knight -  -  -       - - 317 CHAPTER XXII. A Mystery   -               3327 CHAPTER XXIII, A Dangerous Step   - -  -- .. 334 ' CHAPTER XXIVO    . Scorn and Kindness  - -  -  -   .    338 CHAPTER XXV. A Horror of Great Darkness -    -   .  345 CHAPTER XXVI. Friend and Saviour -       -       353' CHAPTER XXVII. The Mystery Solved  -  -   -  -     364- CHAPTER XXVIII. Edith Telk the Old, Old Story -  - -     382 *                 xii         CONTENTS, . CHAPTER XXIX. rPAS Hannibal Learns how his Heart can be White   394 CHAPTER i XXX. Edith's and Arden's Friendship -      -  403 CHAPTER XXXI. Zell       .               423 CHAPTER XXXIL Edith Brings the Wanderer Home       -  443 CHAPTER XXXIII, Edith's Great Temptation  -  -      - 4" CHAPTER XXXIV. Saved     ..                481 CHAPTER XXXV. Closing Scenes *.  -        *     4..98 CHAPTER XXXVI Last Words  -    .    .  .     508   WHAT CAN SHE DO? CHAPTER I. THREE GIRLS. IT was a very cold blustering day in early Janua- ry, and even brilliant thronged Broadway felt the influence of winter's harshest frown. There had been a heavy fall of snow which, though in the main cleared from the sidewalks, lay in the streets comparatively unsullied and unpacked. Fitful gusts of the passing gale caught it up and whirled it in every direction. From roof, ledges, and window sills, miniature avalanches suddenly descended on the startled pedestrians, and the air was here and there loaded with falling flakes from wild hurrying masses of clouds, the rear guard of the storm that the biting northwest wind was driving seaward. It was early in the afternoon, and the great thoroughfare was almost deserted. Few indeed would be abroad for pleasure in such weather, and the great tide of humanity that must flow up land down this channel every working day of the yearf under all skies, had not yet turned northward. - , *   2      WHA T CAN SHE DO t But surely this graceful figure coming up the- street with quick, elastic steps, has not the aspect of one driven forth by grave business cares, nor in the natural- course of things would one expect so young a lady to know much of life's burdens and responsibilities. As she passes I am sure the reader would not turn away from' so pleasant a vision, even if Broadway were presenting alf its numberless -attractions, but at such a time would make the most of the occasion, assured that noth- ing as agreeable would greet his eyes again that sombre day.  The fierce gusts make little impression on her heavy, close-fitting velvet dress, and in her pro- gress against the wind she appears so trim and taut that a sailor's eye would be captivated. She bends her little turbaned head to the blast, and her foot strikes the pavement with a decision' that suggests a naturally brave, resolute nature, and gives abundant proof of vigor and health. A trim- ming of silver fox fur caut and contraste4 the snow crystals against the black velvet of her"dress, in which the flakes catch and mingle, increasing the sense of, lightness and airiness which her movements awaken, and were you seeking a fanci- ful idealization of the spirit of the snow, you might rest satisfied with the first character that appears upon the scene of my story. But on nearer view there was nothing spirit-like or even spirituelle in her aspect, save that an ex- tremely transparent complexion was rendered poss  i the keen air and glow of exer. ?cise; and thlfac -s much too full and blooming  -" to suggest the shadowy and ethereal. When near 2lst street she entered a fruit store    i and seemed in search of some delicacy for an in-    , ralid. As her eye glanced around among the fra- grant tropital fruits that suggested lands in wide contrast to the Wintry scene without, she suddenly  uttered a low exclamation of delight, as she turned from them to old friends, all the more welcome : because so unexpected and out of season. These . were nothing less than a   dof'nstrawherries, in dainty baskets, decked out, or  ore truly eked out, with a few green, leaves. Three orfour bas -  - kets constituted the fruiterer's entire stock, and  ^ probably the entire supply for the metropolis of  America that day. She had scarcely time to lift a basket and in-  hale its delicious aroma, before the proprietor of the store was in bowing attendance, quite as open-  ly admiring' her carnation cheeks as she the ruby fruit. The man's tongue was, however, more de  corous than hiss es, and to her question as to price he replied,-  r"Only two dollars a basket, Miss,- and certainly they are beauties for this season of the year. They -L are all I could get and I don't believe there is an. --!1 other strawherry in New York.?' 'I will take them all," was the brief, decisive A::Y answer, and from a costly portmonnaie she threw  down the price, a proceeding which the man noted     4      WHAT C CAN SHE Do0  in agreeable surprise, and again curiously scanned the fair face as he made up the parcel with ostenta. tious zeal. But his customer was unconscious, or more truly, indifferent to his admiration, and seem- -I  ed much more interested in the- samples of choice fruit arranged on every side. From one to another of these she flitted with the delicate sensuousness of a butterfly, smelling them and touchingf them lightly with the hand she had ungloved, (which was as white as the snow without,) as if they had for her a peculiar fascination. "You seem very fond of fruit," said the mer- chant, his amour prodpre pleased by her evident in- terest in his stock. "I have ever had .a passion for fine fruits and flowers," was the reply, spoken with that perfect frankness characteristic of American girls. "No, you need not send it; I prefer to take it with me." And with a slight smile, she passed out, leaving the fruiterer chuckling over the thought that he had probably had the pleasantest bit of trade of any man on Broadway that dull day. Plunging through the drifts, our nymph of the snow resolutely crossed the street and passed down to a flower store, but instead of buying a bouquet, ordered several pots of budding and blooming-  plants to be sent to her address. She then made her way to' Fifth Avenue and soon mounted a broad flight of steps to one of its most stately houses. The door yielded to her key, her thick walking boots clattered fora moment on the mar.   - HREE GIRLS.     \  5 ble floor but could not disguise the lightness of he , step as she tripped up the winding stair and push- ed open a rosewood door leading into the upper hall. "Mother,r mother," she exclaimed, "here is a treat for you that will banish nerves, headache; and horrors generally. See what I have found for you out in the wintry snows. Now am I not a good fairy for once?"  "O, Edith, child, not so boisterous, Rplease," re- sponded a querulous votce from a great easy chair by the glowing grate, and a middle aged lady turn- ed a white, faded face towards her daughter. -"Forgive me, mother, but my tramp in the January storm has made me feel rampantly well. I wish you could go out and take a run every day as I do. You would then look younger and pret- tier than your daughters, as you used to." The invalid shivered and drew her shawl closer around her, complaining,- "I think you have brought the whole month of January in with you. You really must show more consideration, my dear, for if I should take cold-- and the lady ended with a weary, suggest- ive sigh. In fact, Edith had entered the dim heavily-per, fumed room like a gust owholesome air, her young blood tingling and electric with exercise, and her heart buoyant with the thought of the surprise and pleasure she had in store for her mother. But the manner in which she had been receivedhad already   ' 6     KWHA T CAN SHE DO P chilled her more than the biting blasts on Broad, way. She therefore opened her bundle and set out the little baskets before her mother very quiet- ly. The lady glanced at them for a moment and then said, indifferently,- "It is very good of you to think of me, my dear; they look very pretty. I am sorry I cannot - eat them, but their acid would only increase my dyspepsia. Those raised in winter must be very sour. Ugh! the thought of it sets my teeth on edge," and the poor, nervous creature shrank deeper into her wrappings. "I am real sorry, mother, I thought they would be a great treat for you," said Edith, quite crestfallen. "Never mind; I got some flowers. and they will be here soon." "Thank you, dear, but the doctor says they are not healthy in a room-Oh, dear--that child! what shall I do!" The front door banged, there was a step on the stairs, but not so light as Edith's had been, and a moment later the door burst open, and" the child" rushed in like a mild whirlwind, exclaiming,- "Hurrah, hurrah, school to the shades. No more teachers and tyrants for me," and down went an armful of books with a bang on the table. "O, Zel," cried Edith, " please be quiet, moth. er has a headache." "There, there, your baby will kiss it all awayli and the irrepressible young creature threw hef arms around the bundle that Mrs. Allen had made   ) THREE GIRLS.        7 herself into by her many wrappings, and before she ceased, the red pouting lips left the faintest tinge of their own color on 'the faded cheeks of the mother. The lady endured the boisterous embrace with a martyr-like expression. Zell was evidently a privileged character, the spoiled pet of the house- hold. But a mew voice was how heard that was sharper than the "pet" was accustomed to. "Zell, you are a perfect bear. One would think you had learned your manners at a boys' boarding school." Zell's great black eyes blazed for a moment to- wards the speaker, who was a young lady reclining on a lounge near the window, and who in appear- ance must have been the counterpart of Mrs. Alien herself as she had looked twenty-three years be- fore. In contrast with her sharp, annoyed tone, her cheeks and eyes were wet'with tears. "What are you crying about?" was Zell's brusque respopse. "Oh, I see, a novel. What a ridiculous old thing you are. inever saw you shed a tear over real trouble, and yet every few days you are dissolved in brine over Adolph Moon- shine's agonies, and Seraphina's sentiment, which any sensible person can see is causc" by dyspepsia. No such whipped syllabub for me, but real life." "And what does 'real life' mean for you, I would like to know, but eating, dressing, and flit. ing? ' was the acid retort. Though you call me 'child,' I have lived long r   8      W. H T CAN SHE DO? enough to learn that eating, dressing, and flirting, and while you are about it you might as well add drinking, is the ' real life' of most of the ladies of our set. Indeed, if my poor memory does not fail me, I have seen you myself take a turn at these things sufficiently often to make the sublime scorn of your tone a little inconsistent." As these barbed arrows flew, the tears rapidly exhaled from the hot cheeks of the young lady on the: sofa. Her elegant languor vanished, and she started up; but Mrs. Allen now interfered, and in tones harsh and high, very different from the pre. vious delicate murmurs, exclaimed,- "Children, you drive me wild. Zell, leave the room, and don't show yourself again till you can behave yourself." Zell was now sobbing, partly in sorrow, and partly in anger, but she let fly a few more Parthian arrows over her shoulder as she passed out. "This is a pretty way to treat one on their birth- day. I came home with heart as light as the snow- flakes around me, and now you have spoiled every- thing. I don't know how it is, but I always have a good time everywhere else, but there is some- thing in this house that- often sets one's teeth on  edge," and the door banged appropriately with a spiteful emphasis as the last word was spoken. "Poor- child,' said. Edith, "it is too bad that she should be so dashed with cold water on hei birthday." "She isn't a child,^ said the eldest sister, rising                           THREE GIRLS.        9 from the sofa and -sweeping from the room, "though she often acts like one, and a very bad one too. Her birthday should remind her that if she is ever to be a woman, it is time to commence," and the stately young lady passed coldly away. Edith went to the window and looked dejected- ly out into the early gloom of the declining winter day. Mrs. Allen sighed and looked more nervous and uncomfortable than usual. The upholsterer had donehis part in that ele- gant home. The feet sank into the carpets as in moss. Luxurious chairs seemed to embrace the form that sank into them. Everything was pad- ded, rounded, and softened, except tongues and tempers. If wealth could remove the asperities from these as from material things, it might well be coveted. But this is beyond the upholsterer's art, and Mrs. Allen knew little of the Divine art that can wrap up words and deeds with a kindness softer than eider-down. "Mother's room," instead of being a refuge and favorite haunt of these three girls, was a place where, as we have seen, their " teeth were set on edge." Naturally they shunned the place, visitingthe invalid rather than living with her; their reluctant teet impelled across the threshold by a sense of duty rather than drawn by the cords- of love. The mother felt this in a vague, uncomfortable way, for mother love was there, only it had seemingly turned sour, and instead of attracting her children  . ^ t   10      WHAT CAN SHE DO? by sweetness and sympathy, she querulously cotm plained to ihemn and to her husband of their neg- lect. He would sometimes laugh it off, sometimes shrug his shoulders indifferently, and again harshy chide the girls, according to his mood, for he varied much in this respect. After being cool and wary all day in Wall street, he took off the curb at home. Therefore the variations that never could be counted on. How he would be at dinner did not depend on himself or any principle, but on circumstances. In the main he was indulgent and kind, though quick and passionate, brooking no opposition; and the girls were really more attached to him and found more pleasure in his society than in their mother's. Zelica, the youngest, was his special favorite, and he humored and petted her at a ruinous rate, though often storming at some of her follies. Mrs. Alien saw this preference of her husband, and' was weak enough to feel and show jealousy, But her complainings were ineffectual, for we can no more scold people into loving us than nature could make buds blossom by daily nipping them with frost. And yet she made her children uin- comfortable by making them feel that it was un. natural and wrong that they did not care more for their mother. This was especially true of Edith, who tried to satisfy her conscience, as we have seen, by bringing costly presents and delicacies that were seldom needed or appreciated. Edith, soon became so' oppressed by her moth'   THREE GIRLS.             *  er's sighs and silence and the heavy perfumed air, that she sprang up, and pressing a remorseful kiss i the white thin face, said,-- "I must dress for dinner. mamma; I will send for our maid," and vanished also.   CHAPTER IL A FUTURE OF HUMAN DESIGNING. THE dining-room at six o'clock wore a far more cheerful aspect than the invalid's room up. stairs. It was furnished in a costly manner, but more ostentatiously than good? taste would dic- tate. You instinctively felt that it was a sacred place to the master of the house, in which he daily sacrificed to one of his chosen deities. The portly colored waiter, in dress coat and white vest, has just placed the soup on the table, and Mr. Alien enters, supporting his ,wife. He had a sort of' manly toleration for all her whims and weaknesses. He had never indulged in any lofty ideas of womanhood, nor had any special longings for her sympathy and companionship. Business was the one engrossing thing of his life, and this he honestly believed woman incapable of, from her very nature. It was true of his wife, but due to a false education rather than to any innate difficulties; and he no more expected her to com- prehend and sympathize intelligently with hiss business operations, than to see her go down to Wall street with him wearing his hat and coat. She had been the leading belle in his set years ago. He had admired her immensely as a stylish,   A FUTURE OF HUMAN DESIGNIN.     13  beautiful woman, and carried her off from dozens of competitors, who were fortunate in their fail- ure. He always maintained a show of gallantry and deference; which, though but veneer, was certainly better than open disregard and brutal neglect. So now, with a god-natured tolerance and politeness, he seated the, feeble creature in a Cushioned chair at the table, treating her more like a spoiled child' than a friend and companion. The girls immediately appeared also, for they knew their father's weakness too well to keep him waiting for his dinner. Zell bounded into-his arms in her usual impul- sive style, and the father caressed her in a way that showed that his heart was very tender toward his youngest child. "And so my baby is seventeen to-day," he said. "Well, well, how fast we are growing old." The girl laughed; the man sighed. The one was on the threshold of what she deemed the richest pleasures of life; the oqher had well nigh exhausted them, and for a moment realized it. Still he was in excellent spirits, for he had been unusually fortunate that day, and had seen his way to an "s operation" that promised a golden future. He sat down therefore to the good cheer with not a little of the spirit of the man in the parable, whose complaisant exhortation to his soul has ever been the language of false security and prosperity.   "     WHAT CAN SHE DOI The father's open favoritism for Zell n another source of jealousy, her sisters naturE feeling injured by it. Thus in this househ even human love was discordant and pervert and the Divine love unknown. What chance had character, that ihing of sl growth, in such an atmosphere.  The popping of a champagne cork took 1 place of grace at the opening of the meal, and 1 glasses were filled all around. In honor of Ze] birthday they drank to her health and happine By no better form or more suggestive ceremo could this-Christian (?) family wish their young( member "God speed '. on entering the vicissituc of a new year of life. But what they did M done heartily, and every glass was drained. them it seemed very appropriate, and her fatl} said, glancing admiringly at her flaming chee and dancing eyes: "This is just the thing to drink Zell's health ' for she is as full of sparkle and effervescence ' .  . the champagne itself." Had he been a wiser and more thoughtful mn he would have carried the simile farther al remembered the fate of champagne when expose However piquant and pleasing Zell's sparkle mig be, it would hardly secure success and safety f life. But in his creed a girl's first duty was to  pretty and fascinating, and he was extreme proud of the beauty of his daughters. It was I plan to marry them to rich' men who would mai   A FUTURE OF HUMAN DESIGNIN.     15 tain them in the irresponsible luxury that their nother had enjoyed. Circumstances seemed to justify his security. The son of a rich man, he had also inherited a taste for business and the art of making money. Years of prosperity had confirmed his-confidence, and he -looked complaisantly around upon his family and talked of the future in sanguine tones. fle was a man considerably past his prime, and his florid face and portly form indicated that he was in the 'habit of doing ample justice to the good cheer before him. Intense application to business in early years and indulgence of appetite in later life had seriously impaired a constitution naturally good. He reminded you of a flower fully blown or of fruit overripe. "Since you have permitted Zell to leave school, I suppose she must make her debut soon," said Mrs. Allen with more animation than usual in her tone. "Oh, certainly," cried Zell, "on Edith's birth- day, in February. We have arranged  it all, haven't we, Edith?   "i Heigho, then I am to have no part in the matter," said her father. "Yes indeed, papal, cried the saucy girl, "you are to have no end of kisses, and a very long bill.'" This sally pleased him immensely, for it ex- pressed his ideal of womanly return for masculine affection, at least the bills h'ad never been wanting in his experience. But, mellowed by wine and -.    16      WHAT CAN SHE DO? elated by the success of the dayh-enlow prepared to give the coup that would make a far greatei sensation in the family circle than even a debut or a birthday party. So, glancing from one eager face to anothler, (for between the wine and the excitement even Mrs. Allen was no longer a color- less, languid creature, ready to faint at the embrace of her child,) he said with a twinkle in his eye,- "Well, go to your mother about the party She is a veteran in such matters. But let there be some limit to the length of the bill, or I can't carry out another plan I have in view for you." Chorus--"What is that?" Coolly filling his glass, he commenced leisurely sipping, while glancing humorously from one to another, enjoying their impatient expectancy. ' If you don't tell us right away," cried Zell, bouncing up, ' I'll pull your whiskers without mery." "Papa, you will throw mother into a fever. See how flushed her face is!" said Laura, the eldest daughter, speaking at the same time two rords-for herself.  v The face of Edith, with its dazzling complexion all aglow, and large dark eyes lustrous with excite- ment, was -more eloquent than words could have been, and the "bon vivant" drank in their expres. sion with as much zest as he sipped h:s wine. Perhaps'it was well for him to make the most of that little keen-edged moment of bright anticipa- tion and bewildering hope, for what he was about    A FUTURE OF HUMAN DESIGNING.    17 to propose would cost him many thousands, and exile him from business, which to him was the very breath of life. But Mrs. Allen's matter-of-fact voice brought things to a crisis, for with an injured air she said: "4 How can you, George, when you know the state of my nerves?" "What I propose, mamma, will cure your nerves and everything else, for it is nothing less than a tour through Europe." There was a shriek of delight from the girls, in which even the exquisite Laura joined, and Mrs. Allen was trembling with excitement. Apart from the trip itself, they considered it a sort of disgrace i that a family of their social position and wealth had never been abroad. Therefore the announce- ment was doubly welcome. Hitherto Mr. Allen'3 devotion to business had made it impossible, and he had given them no hint of the near consumma- tion of their wishes. But he had begun to feel the need of change and rest himself, and this weighed more with him than all their entreaties. In a moment Zell had her arms about his neck, and her sisters were throwing him kisses across the table. His wife, looking unusually gratified said: "You are a sensible man at last," which was a great dea. for Mrs. Allen to say. "Why mamma" exclaimed her husband, eleva- ting his eyebrows in comic surprise, " that I should live to hear you say that!"   l 8     NGWHAT CA/N SHzE DOI "Now don't be silly," she replied, joining slightly in the laugh at her expense, "or we shall think that you have taken too much champagne, and that'this Europe business is all a hoax." "Wait till you have been outside of Sandy Hook an hour, and you will find everything real enough then. I think I see the elegant ladies of my household about that time." "For shame, papa, what an uncomfortable sug- gestion over a dinner table," said the fastidious Laura. "Picture the ladies- of your household in the salons of .Paris. I promise we will do youk credit there." "I lhpe so, for I fear I shall have need of credit when you all reach that Mecca of women." "It's no more the Mecca of women than Wall street is the Jerusalem of men. What you are all going to do in Heaven without Wall street, I don't see." Her husband gave his significant shrug and said, ' I don't meet notes till they are due,' which was his way of saying: "Sufficient unto the day is' the evil thereof."           - "The salons of Paris!" said Edith, with some disdain. Think of the scenery, the orafge-groves, and vineyards that we shall see, the Alpine flowers---" "I declare,' interrupt ed Zell, "I believe that Edith would rather see a grape vine and orange tree, than all the toilets of Paris.' "I shall enjoy seeing both," was the reply,   A FUTURE OP HUMfAN DESIGNING.   19 "and so have the advantage- of you in having two strings to my bow." "'By the way, that reminds me to ask how many beaux you now have on the string," said her father. Edith tossed her head with a pretty blush and said: "Pity me, my father, you know I am always poor at arithmetic." "You will take up with a crooked stick after all. Now Laura is a sensible girl, like her mother, and has picked out one of the richest, longest- headed fellows on the street." "Indeed!" said his wife. "I do not see but you are paying yourself a greater compliment than either Laura or me." "Oh no, mere business statement. Laura means business, and sq, does Mr. Goulden." Laura looked annoyed and said,- ' "Pa, I thought you never talked business at nome." "Oh this is a feminine phase that women under- stnd. I want your sisters to profit by your good example." "I shall marry an Italian Count," cried Zell. "Who will turn out a fourth-rate Italian barber, and I shall have to support you both. But I won't do it. You would have to help him shave." "No, I should transform him into a leader of banditti, and we would live in princely state in the Apennines. Then we would capture you, papa, and - carry you off to the mountains, and I would be   30      WHA T CAN SHE DO? your jailer, and give you nothing but turtle soup champagne and kisses, till you paid a ransom that would break Wall street." "I would not pay a cent, bat stay and eat you out of house and home." "I never expect to marry,' said Edith "but some day I am going to commence saving my money-now don't laugh, papa, for- I could be eco- nomical if I once made up my mind'--and the pret- J ty head gave a decisive little nod. "I am going to save my money and buy a beautiful place in the country and make it as near like the garden of Eden as possible."' "Snakes will get into it as of old,9' was Mrs Allen's cynical remark. "Yes, that is woman's experience with a gar- den,'" said her husband withl a mock sigh. Popping off the cork of another bottle, he add- ed, "I have got ahead of you, Edith. I own a place in the country, much as I dislike that kind of property. I had to take it to-day in a trade, and so am a landholder in Pushton,--prospect; you see, of my becoming a rural gentleman (Squire is the title, I believe), and of exchanging stock in Wall street for the stock of a farm. Here's to my es- tate of three acres with a story and a half mansion upon it! Perhaps you would rather go up there this summer than to Paris, my dear?" to his wife. Mrs. Allen gave a contemptuous shrug as if the jest were too preposterous to be answered, but Edith cried.---   A FUTURE OF HUMAN DESIGNING.    21 "Fill my glass; I will drink to your country ptlace. I know the cottage is a sweet rustic little box, all smothered with vines and roses like one I saw last June." Then she added in sport, "I wish you would give it to me for my birthday present. It would make such a nice porter's lodge at the -J entrance to my future Eden." "Are you in earnest?" asked the father sud-  denly. Both were excited by the wine they had drank. She glanced at her father; and saw that he was in a mood to say yes to anything, and quick as thought, she determined to get the place, ' if possible. "Of course I am. I would rather have it than all the jewelry in New York," (she was over-sup- plied with that style of gifts.) "You shall have it then, for I am sure I don't want it, and am devoutly thankful to be rid of it." Edith clapped her hands with a delight scarcely less demonstrative than that of Zell in her wildest of moods. "Nonsense," said Mrs. Allen, "the- idea of giv- ing a young lady such an elephant." "But remember," continued her father, "you must manage it yourself, pay the taxes, keep it re- paired, insured, etc. There is a first-class summer hotel near it. Next year, after we get back from Eu'rope, we will go up there and stay awhile. You shall then take possession, employ an agent to take care of it, who by the way will cheat yone .         , ' wU On . , * . .   22-     WHA T CAN SHE DOt to your heart s content. I will wager you a box of gloves, that before a year passes, you will try to sell the ivy-twined cottage for anything you can get, and will be thoroughly cured of your mania for country life." *' I'll take you up," said Edith, in great excite- merit, " but remember, I want my deed on my birth- day ."  ' All right," said Mr. Allen, laughing. "I will transfer it to you to-morrow, while I think of it. But don't try to trade it off to me before next month for a new dress." Edith was half wild over her present. Many and varied were her questions, but her father only said,-- "I don't know much about it. I did not listen to half the man said, but I remember he stated there was a good deal of fruit on the place, for it made me think of you at the time. -Bless you, I could not stop for such small gam'e. I am negotia- ting a large and promising operation which you understand about as well as farming. It will take some time to carry it through, but when finished, we will start for, the 'salons of Paris.'" "I half believe," said Laura, with a covert sneer, " that Edith would rather go up to her farm of three acres." "I am well satisfied as papa has arranged it,' said the practical girl. "Every thing in its place and get all out of life you can, is my creed." "That means, get all out of me you can, don't !                     .  .   . ,7   A FUTURE OF HUMAN DESIGNIN.     23 * .t it, sly puss," laughed the father, well pleased, though, with the worldly wisdom of the speech. "Kisses, kisses, unlimited kisses, and consider pourself well repaid," was the arch rejoinder; and not a few looking at her as she then appeared, but would have coveted such bargains. So her father seenled to think as he gazed admiringly at her. But something in Zell's pouting lips and vexed expression caught his eye, and he said good na- turedly,- ' Heigho, youngster, what has brought a thun. der-cloud across your saucy face?' "In providing for birthdays to come, I guess  you have forgotten your baby's birthday present. "Come here, you envious elf,' said her father, taking something from his pocket. Like light she flashed out from under the cloud and was at his side in an instant, dimpling, smiling, and twinkling with expectation, her black eyes as quick and rest- lss as her father was deliberate and slow in undo. ing a dainty parcel.  "O, George, do be quick about it, or Zell will explode. You both make me nervous," said Mrs. Allen fretfully. Suddenly pressing open a velvet casket, Mr. Al. len hung a jewelled watch with a long gold chain about his favohite's neck, while she improvised a hornpipe around his chair. "' There," said he, "is something that is worth more than Edith's farm, tumble down cottage. ^*   :2 4. -   WHA T CAN SHE DO? roses and all!. So remember that those lips were made to kiss, not to pout with." Zell put her lips to p oper uses to that extent that Mrs. Allen began to grow jealous, nervous, and out of sorts generally, and having finished her chocolate, rose feebly from the table. Her hus. band offered his arm and the family dinner party broke up. And yet, take it altogether, each one was in higher spirits than usual, and Zell and Edith in a state of positive delight. They had received costly gifts that specially gratified their' peculiar tastes, and these, with the promise of a grand party, a trip to Europe, youthful buoyancy and champagne, so dilated their little feminine souls, that Mrs. Al- len's fears of an explosion of some kind were scarce- ly groundless. They dragged their stately sister Laura, now unwontedly bland and affable, to the piano, and called f6r the quickest and moat brill- iant of waltzes, and a moment later their lithe fig- ures flowed away into the rhythm of motion, that from their exuberance of feeling, was as fantastic as it was graceful. Mr. Allen assisted his wife to her room and soon left her in an unusually contented frame of mind to develop strategy for the coming party. Mrs. Allen's nerves utterly incapacitated her for the care of her household, attendance upon church, and such humdrum matters, but in view of a great oc. casionlike a " grand crush ball" where among the luminaries of fashion she could become the reful.   A FUTURE OF HUMAN DESIGNING.    25 gent centre of a constellationwhich her fair daugh- ters would makearound her, her spirit rose to the X emergency. When it came to dress and dressmakers and all the complications of the campaign now opening, notwithstanding her nerves, she could be quite Napoleonic. Her husband retired to the library, lighted a choice Havana, skimmed his evening papers, and then as usual, went to his club. This, as a general thing, was the extent of the library's literary uses. The best authors in gold and Russia smiled down from the black walnut shelves, but the books were present rather as fur- niture than from any intrinsic value in themselves to the family. They were given prominence on the same principle that Mrs. Allen sought to give a certain tone to her entertainments by inviting many literary arid scientific men. She might be unable to appreciate the works of the savans, but as they appreciated the labors of her masterly French cook, many compromised the matter by eating the petit soupers, and shrugging their shoulders over the entertainers.  And'yet the Allens were anything but vulgar upstarts. Both husband and wife were descended from old and wealthy New Yorkofamilies. They had all the polish which life-long association. with the fashiohable world bestows. What was Inore, they were highly intelligent, and in their own sphere, gifted people. Mr. Allen was a leader in business in one of the chief commercial centres, and to 2.   26,     WHAT CAN SHE DOP lead in legitimate business in our day requires as much ability, indeed we may say genius, as to Aead in any other department of life. He would lave shown no more ignorance in the study, studio, and laboratory, than their occupants would have shown in the counting room. That to which he de. voted his energies he had become a master in. It is true he had narrowed down his life to little else than business. He had never acquired a taste for art and literature, nor had he given himself time for broad culture. But we meet narrgw artists, narrow clergy- men, narrow scientists just a. uly. If you do not get on their hobby, and rife with them, they seem disposed to ride over oul Indeed, ill our brief life with its fierce competitions, few other than what are known as "one idea" men have time to succeed. Even genius must drive with tre- mendous and concentrated energy, to distance competitors. Mr. Allen was quite as great in his department as any of the lions that his wife lured into her parlors were in theirs. \ Mrs. Allen was also a leader in her own chosen sphere, or rather in the one to which she had been educated. Given a carte blanche in the way of expense, few could surpass her in producing a-brilliant, dazzling entertainment. The coloring and decorations of her rooms would not be more rich, varied, or in better taste, than the diversity, and yet harmony of the people she would bring together by her adroit selections. She had studied society, and for it she lived, not to nmake it better   A FUTURE OF H UMAN DESIGNING.    27 not to elevate its character, and tone down its ex- travagances, but simply to shine in it, to be talked about and envied. Both husband and wife had achieved no small success, and to succeed in such a city as New York in their chosen departments required a certain amount of genius. The savans had a general ad- miration for Mrs. Allen's style and taste, but found on the social exchange of her parlors, she had noth. ing to offer but fashion's smallest chit-chat. They had a certain respect for Mr. Allen's wealth and business power, but having discussed the news of the day, they passed on, and the people during the intervals of dancing, drifted into congenial schools and shoals, like fish in a shallow lake. Mr. and Mrs. Allen had a vague admiration for the learning of the scholars, and culture of the artists, but would infinitely prefer marrying their daughters to down. town merchant princes. Take the world over, perhaps all classes of peo- ple are despising others quite as much as they are despised themselves. But when the French cook appeared updn th- scene, then was produced your true democracy. Then was shown   a phase of life 'into which all. entered with a  zest that proved the\common tie of humanity.  .   I  -        X CHAPTER III. THREE MHEN? WIII1LE Mrs. Allen was planning the social pyrotechnics that should dazzle the fashion. able world, Edith and Zell were working off their exuberant spirits in the manner described in the last chapter, and which was as natural to their city- bred feet as a wild romp to a country girl. / The brilliant, notes of the piano and the rustle of their silks had rendered them oblivious of the fact that- the door-bell had rung twice, and that three gentlemen were peering curiously through the half open door. They were evidently at home as frequent and favored visitors, and had motioned the old colored waiter not to announce them, and he reluctantly obeyed. For a moment they feasted their eyes on the scene as the two girls, with twining arms and many innovations on the regular step, whirled through the rooms, and then Zell's quick eye detected them. Pouncing down upon the eldest gentleman of the party, she dragged him from his ambush, while the others also entered. One who was quite young approached the blushing, panting Edith with an almost boyish confidence of manner, as if assured   THREE HENE  of a welcome, Mwhile the remaining gentleman, who uvas verging toward middle age, quietly glided to the piano and gave his hand to Laura, who greeted him with a cordiality scarcely to be expected from so stately a young lady. The laws of affinity and selection had evidently been developed here, and as the reader must sur mise, long previous acquaintance had led to the present easy and intimate relations. "What do you mean," cried Zell, dragging tlder the gaslight her cavalier, who assumed much penitence and fear, "6by thus rudely and abruptly breaking in upon the retirement of three secluded females?" "At their devotions," added the cynical voice of gentleman at the piano, who was no other ' than Mr. Goulden, Laura's admirer. Zell's attendant threw himself in the attitude of a suppliant and said deprecatingly,-- "Nay, but we are astronomers."         - "That's a fib, and not a very white one either,' she retorted, "I don't believe you ever look to- wards heaven for anything." "What need of looking thither for heaverly bodies," he replied in a low, meaning tone, regard.  ing with undisguised admiration her glowing cheeks. "Moreover I don't believe in telescopic distances," he continued, with a half-made motion to put his arm around her waist.           -  "Come," she said, pirouetting out of his reach,   30      WHA T CA N SHE DOI "remember I am no longer a child, I am seventeen to-day." "Would that you might never be a day older in appearance and feelings.'" "Are you willing to leave me so far behind?" she asked with some maliciousness. "No, but you would make me a boy again.. If old Ponce de Leon had met a Miss Zell, he would soon have forsaken the swamps and alligators of Florida." 4 0O what a watery, scaly compliment. Pre- ferred to swamps and alligators! Who would have believed it?" "I am not blind to your pretty wilful blindness. You know I likened you to something too divine and precious to be found on earth." Cc Which is still true in the carrying out of your marvellously mixed metaphors. I must lend you my rhetoric book. But as your meaning dawis on me, I see that you are symbolized by old Ponce. I shall look in the history for the age of the ancient Spaniard to-morrow and then H shall know how-old you are, a thing I could never find-out." As with little jets of silvery laughter and butter. fly motion she hovered round him, the very em- bodiment of life and beautiful youth, she would have made, to an artist's eye, a very true idealizao tion of the far-famed mythical fountain. And yet as a moment later she confidingly took his arm and strolled toward the library, it wasevi, dent that all her flutter and hesitancy, her seeming   THREE MEN.        31 freedom and- mimic show of war, was like that of some bright tropical bird fascinated by a remorse, less serpent whose intent eyes and deadly purpose are creating a spell that cannot be resisted. Mr. Van Dam, upon whose arm she was leaning, was one of the worst products of artificial metro- politan life. He had inherited a name which ancestry had rendered honorable, but which he to the utmost dishonored, and yet so adroitly, so shrewdly respecting fashion's code, though shun- ning nothing wrong, that he did not lose the entree into the gilded homes of those who call themselves, "the best society."      e True, it was whispered that he was rather fast, that he played heavily and a trifle too successfully, and that he lived the life of anything but a Faint at his luxurious rooms. "But then," continued society, openly and complaisantly, "he is so fine looking, so courtly and polished, so well-connected, and what is still more to the point, my dear, he is reputed to be immensely wealthy, so -we must not heed these rumors. After all it is the way of these young men of the world."      a Thus "the best society" that would have politely frozen -out of its parlors the Chevalier Bayard, " sans peur et sans reproache," had he not appeared in the latest style, with golden fame rather than golden spurs, welcomed Mr. Van Dam. Indeed not a few forced exotic belles, who had pre- maturely developed in the hot house atmosphere of wealth and extravagance regarcded him as a   -32'    -WHA 7 CAN SHE UDO  sort of social lion, and his reticence, with a certain mystery in which he shrouded his evil life, made him all the more fascinating. He was past the prime of life, though exceedingly well preserved, j for he was one of those cool, deliberate, votaries of pleasure that reduce amusement to a science, and carefully shun all injurious excess. While exceed. ingly deferential toward the sex in general, and bestowing compliments and attentions as adroitly as a financier -would place his money, he at the same time permitted the impression to grow that lhe was extremely fastidious in his taste, and had never married because it had never been his for- tune to meet the faultless being who could fill his exacting eyes. Any special and continued admi- ration on his part therefore made its recipient an object of distinction and envy to very many in the unreal world in which he glided serpent-like, rather than moved as a man. To morbid unhealthful minds the rumors of his evil deeds became piquant eccentricities, and the whispers of the oriental orgies that were said to take place. in his bachelor apartments made him an object of a curious inter- est, and many)sighed for the opportunity of reform ing so distinguished a sybarite. On Edith's entrance into society he had been much impressed by her beauty, and had gradually grown quite attentive, equally attracted by her father's wealth. But she, though with no clear peXception of his character, and with no highet moral standard than her set, instinctively shrank                      .   THREE MEN.         33 from the man. Indeed, in some respects, they were too much alike for that mysterious attraction that so often occurs between opposites. Not that she had his unnatural depravity, but like him she was shrewd, practical, resolute, and controlled more by her judgment than impulses. Her vanity, of which she had no little share. led her to accept his attentions to a certain point, but the keen man of the world soon saw that his "little game," as in his own vernacular he styled it, would not be suc- cessful, and he was the last one to sigh in vain or mope an hir in love-lorn melancholy. While ceasing to press his suit, he remained a frequent and familiar visitor at the house, and thus his attention was drawn to Zell, who, though young, had developed early in the stimulating atmosphere in which she lived. At first he petted and played with her as a child, as she wilfully flitted in and out of the parfors, whether her sisters wanted her or not. He continually brought her bonbons and like fanciful trifles, till at last, in jest, the family called him Zell's " ancient beau.)" But during the past year it dawned on him that the child he petted on account of her beauty and sprightliness was rapidly. becoming a brilliant woman, who would make a wife far more to his' taste than her equally beautiful but matter-of-fact sister. Therefore he warily, so as not to alarm the jealous father, but with all the subtle skill of which he was master, sought to win her affections 8*   34      WART CAN SHE DO? knowing that she would have her own way when she knew what way she wanted. For Zell this unscrupulous man had a peculiar fascination. He petted and flattered her to her heart's content, and thus made her the envy of her  young acquaintances, which was incense indeed to her vain-little soul. He neverlectured orpreached to her on account of her follies and nonsense, as her elderly friends usually did, but gave to her wild, impulsive moods free rein. Where a true friend would have cautioned and curbed, he applauded and incited, causing Zell to mistake extravagance in language and boldness in manner or spirit and brilliancy. Laura and Edith often remonstrated with her, but she did not heed them. Indeed, she feared no one save her father, and Mr. Van Diam was propriety itself when he was present, which was but seldom. Between his business and club, and Mrs. Alien's nerves, the girls were left mainly to themselves. What wonder that there are so many shii-. wrecks, when young, heedless, inexperienced hands must steer, unguided, through the 'most perilous and treacherous of seas? Mr. Allen's elegant costly home was literally an unguarded fold, many a laborer, living in a ten ement house, doing more to shield his daughters from the evil of the world.  To Mr. Van Dam, Zell was a perfect prize. Though he had sipped at the cup of pleasure so - eisurely and systematically, he was getting down   THREE MEN.        35  to thgtregs. His taste was .becoming palled and satiy burdening him with its leaden weight. But asJ e child he petted developed daily into a womr he became interested, then fascinated by the process. Her beauty was so brilliant, her excess sive sprightliness so contagious, that he felt his sluggish pulses .stir and tingle with excitement the moment he came into her presence. Her wild varying moods kept him constantly on the qui vive, and he would say in confidence to one of his inti- mate cronies,-       - "The point is, Hal,.she is such a spicy, piquant contrast to the insipid society girls, who have no more individuality than fashion blocksin Broadway windows."           He liked the kittenish young creature all the more because her repartee was often a little cutting. If she had always struck him with a velvet paw, the thing would have grown monotonous, but he occasionally got a scratch that made him wince, cool and brazen as he was. But after all, he daily saw that he was gaining power over her, and the manner in which the frank-hearted girl took his arm and leaned upon it, spoke volumes to the ex- perienced man. While he habitually wore a mask, Zell could conceal nothing, and across heg Aptil face flitted her innermost thoughts. If she had had a Imother, she might, even in the wilderness of earth, have become a blossom fit for heavenly gardens, but as it was, her wayward nha. -ture so full of dangerous beauty, was left to run wild ^ -  /  *  ' '  s   36      WHA 'CANA SHE DOf Edith was beginning to be troubled at Zell's intimacy with Mr. Van Dam, and had conceived a growing suspicion and dislike for him. As for Laura, the eldest, she was like her mother, too much wrapped up in herself, to have many thoughts for any one else, and' they all regarded tZel as a mere child still'. Mr. Allen, who would have been very anxious had Zell been receiving the attentions of some penniless young clerk or art- ist laughed at her "flirtation with old Van Dam" as an eminently safe affair. But on the present evening her sisters were too much occupied with their own friends to give Zell or her dangerous admirer much attention. As yet no formal engagement had bound any of them, but an intimacy and mutual liking tending to such a result, was rapidly growing. -' In Edith's case the attraction of contrasts was again shown. Augustus Elliot, the youth who had approached her with such confidence and grace, was quite as stylish a personage as herself, and that was saying a great deal. But every line of his full handsome face, as well as the expression of his light blue eyes, showed that she had more decision in her little finger than he in the whole of his luxurious nature. Self-pleasing, self-indulgence, good-natured vanity were unmistakably his charac- teristics. To yield, not for the good of others, but because not strong enough to stand sturdily alone, was the law of his being. If he could ever have been kept under the influence of good and stronger   THREE MEN.        37 natures, who would have developed his naturally kind heart and good impulses into something like principle, he might have had a safe and creditable career. But he was the idol of a foolish, fashiona- ble mother, and the pet of two or three sisters who werelmpty-brained enough to think their handsome brother the perfection of mankind; and by eye, manner, and often the plainest words, they told him as, much, and he had at last come to believe them. Why should they not? He was faultless in his own dress, faultless in his criticism of a lady's dress, taking the prevailing fashion as the standard. He was perfectly versed in the polite slang of the day. He scented and announced the slightest change in the mode afar off, so that his elegant sisters could appear on the Avenue in advance of the other fashion-plates. As they sailed away on a sunny afternoon in their gorgeous plumage, the envy of many a competing belle, they would say,-    "Isn't he a duck of a brother to give us a hint of a change so early. After all there is no eye or taste like that of man when once perfected." -And then they knew him to be equally au fait on the'flavor of wines, the points of horses, the merits of every watering place and all the other lore which in their "world gave pre-eminence. They had been educated to have. no other ideal of man, hood, and if an earnest, straight-forward-man, with a purpose, had spoken out before them, theywould have regarded him as an uncouth monster.   38     WHA T CAN SAH DO  Notwithstanding all his vanity, "Gus" as he was familiarly called, was a very weak man, and though he would not acknowledge it, even to him self, instinctively recognized the fact. He continu ally attached himself to strong, resolute natures, and where it was adroitly done, could easily be made a tool of. He took a great fancy to Edith from the first hour of their acquaintance, and she soon obtained a strong influence over him. She as instinctively detected his yielding disposition and liked him the better for it, while his contagi- ous good-nature and abundant supply of society talk, made him a general favorite. When every one whispered, ' What a handsome couple they would make,"' and she found him so looked up to and quoted in the fashionable world, she began to entertain quite an admiration as well as liking for him, though she saw more and more clearly that there was nothing in him that she could lean upon. Gus' parents, who knew that the Allens were immensely wealthy, urged on the match, but Mr. Allen, aware that the Elliots were living to the ex- tent of their means, discouraged it, plainly telling Edith his reasons. "But,"' said Edith, at the same time showing her heart in the practical suggestion, " could not Gus go into business himself? ' "The worst thing he could do," said the keen Mr. Allen. -:"He Las tried it a few times, I have learned, but has not one business qualification. He   THREE MEN.        39 could not keep himself in the gold tooth-picks he sports. His mother and sisters have spoiled him. He is nothing but a society man. Mr. Elliot has not-a word- to say at home. His business is to make money for them to spend, and a tough time he has to keep up with them. You girls must marry men who can take care of you, unless you wish Lto sup- port your husbands.",  Mr. Allen's verdict was true, an Edith felt that it was. When a boy, Gus could get out of lessons by running to his mother with the plea of head- ache or any trifle, and in youth he had escaped business in like manner. His father had tried him a few times in- his office, but was soon glad to fall in with his wife's opinion, that her son (" had too much spirit and refinement for plodding humdrum business, that he was a born gentleman and suited only to elegant leisure," and as his gentleman son only did mischief down-town, the poor over-worked father was glad to have him out of the way, for he Frth difficulty made both ends meet, as it was, Hoping he would do better with strangers, he had, by personal influence, procured him situations elsewhere, but between the mother's weakness aid the young man's confirmed habits of idleness, it al- ways ended by Gus saying to his employers,-- "I'm going off on a little trip-by-by," at which they gave a sigh of relief. It had at last lse. come a- recognized fact, that Gus must marry an heiress, this being about the only way :for so fine a gentleman to achieve the fortune that he could not   40     -WA T CAN SHE DO stoop to toil for. As he admired himself' complal. santly in the gilded mirror that ornamented his dressing-room, lie felt that a wise selection would be his only difficulty, and though an heiress is something of a rara avis; he sternly resolved to cage one with such heavy golden plumage that even his mother, whom no one satisfied save himself, would give a sigh of perfect content. When at last he met Edith Allen, it seemed as if inclination might happi- ly blend with his lofty sense of duty, and he soon became Edith's devoted and favored attendant. And yet, as we have seen, our heroine was not the sentimental style of girl that falls hopelessly and helplessly in love with a man for some occult reason, not even known to herself, and who mopes and pines till she is permitted to marry him, be he fool, villain or saint. Edith was fully capable of appre- ciating and weighing her father's words, and under their influence about decided to chill her handsome but helpless admirer into a mere passing acquaint- ance; but when he next appeared before her in his uniform, as an officer in one of the "crack" city regiments, her eyes, taste, and vanity, and some- how -her heart, so pleaded for him that, so far from being an icicle, she smiled on him like a July sun. But whenever he sought to press his suit into something definite, she evaded and shunned the point, as only a feminine diplomatist can. In fact, Gus, on account of his vanity, was not a very ilrgent suitor, as the idea of final refusal was preposterous   THREE MEN 4.  He regarded himself as virtually accepted already Meanwhile Edith for once in her life was playing the role of Micawher, and "waiting for something to turn up." And something had, lor this trip to Europe would put time and space between them, and gently cure both of their folly, as she deemed it. Folly! She did notrealize that Gus regarded himself as acting on sound business principles, and a strong sense of duty, as well as obeying the im- pulses of what heart he had. The sweet approval of conscience and judgment attended his action, while both condemned her.  , As Gus approached this evening, she felt a pang of commiseration that not only her father's and her own disapproval, but soon the briny ocean would be between them, and she was unusually kind. She decided to play with her poor little mouse till the last, and then let absence remedy all. Her mind was quick, if not very profound. As Mr. Goulden leaned across the corner of the piano, and paid the blushing Laura some delicate compliments, one could not but think of an adroit financier, skilfully placing some money. There was nothing ardent, nothing incoherent and lover-like, in his carefully modulated tones, and nicely selected words that might mean much or little as he might afterwards decide. Mr. Goulden always knew what he was about, as truly in a lady's boudoir, as in Wall street. The stately, ele- gant. Laura suited his tastes, her father's financial  status had suited him also. But he, who, through   42     WA T CAN SHE DO? his agents, knew all that was going on in Wall street, was aware that Mr. Allen had engaged in a very heavy speculation, which, though promising well at the time, might, by some unexpected turn of the wheel, wear a very different aspect. He would see that game through before proceeding with his own, and in the meantime, by judicious attention, hold Laura well in hand. In that brilliantly lighted parlor none of these currents and counter currents were apparent on the surface. That was like the ripple and sparkle of a summer sea in the sunlight. Every year teaches us what is hidden under the fair but treacherous seeming of life. The young ladies were now satisfied with the company they had, and the gentlemen, as can well be understood, wished no farther additions. Therefore they agreed to retire to the library for a game of cards. ' Hannibal," said Edith, summoning the porten. tous colored factotum who presided over the front door and dining-room, " if any one calls, say we are out or engaged.") That solemn dignitary bowed as low as his stiff white collar would permit, but soliloquized,- "X I guess I is sumpen too black to tell a white lie, so I'se say dey is engaged." As the ladies swept away, leaning heavily on the arms of their favored gallants, he added, with a slight grin illumining the gravity of his face, "It looks mighty like it." -   CHAPTER IV. THE SKIES DARKENING. TIIE game of cards fared indifferently, for they were all too intent on little games of their own to give close attention. Mr. Van Dam won when he chose and gave the game away when he chose, but made Zell think the skill was mainly hers. Still, in the common parlance, they had a "good time." From such clever men the jests and compliments were rather better than usual, and repartee from the ruby lips that smiled upon them could not seem other than brilliant. Edith soon added to the: sources of enjoyment by ordering cake and wine; for though not the eldest she seemed to naturally take the lead. Mr. Goulden drank sparingly. He meant that not a film should come across his judgment. Mr. Van Dam drank freely, but he was seasoned to more. fiery potations than sherry. Not so poor Gus, who, while he could never resist the wine, soon felt its influence. But he had sufficient con- trol never to go beyond the point of tipsiness that A fashion allows in the drawing-room. Of course through Zell's unrestrained -hatte! the recently -made plans soon came out., o      "     WHA. T CAN SHE DO  Adroit Mr. Van Dam turned to tell with an expression of much pleased surprise exclaiming: "How fortunate I am! I had completed my plans to go abroad some little time since." Zell clapped her hands with delight, but an in. voluntary shadow darkened Edith's face. Gus lo;oked nonplussed. He knew that his father and mother with difficulty kept pace with his home expenses and that a Continental tour was impossible. Mr. Goulden looked a little thoughtful, as if a new element had entered into the problem. "Oh, come," laughed Zell. 'aLet us all be good, and go on a pilgrimage together to Paris-I mean Jerusalem." "I will worship devoutly with you at either shrine," said Mr. Van Dam. "And with equal sincerity, I suppose," said Edith, rather coldly. "I sadly fear, Miss Edith, that my sincerity will not be superior to that of the other devotees," was the keen retort, in blandest tones. Edith bit her lip, but said gayly, "' Count me out of your pilgrim band. I want no shrine with relics of the'past. I wish no incense rising about me obscuring the view. I like the present, and wish to see what is beyond." "But suppose you are both shrine and divinity yourself?" said Gus, with what he meant for a kill ing look.                   -'   TH E SKIES DARKE#INVG.    45 *    ,   -  4 * - "Do you mean that compliment for me?" sked IEdith, all sweetness. Between wine and love Gus was inclined to be entimental, and so in a low, meaning tone nswered--, "Who more deserving?  Edith's eyes twinkled a moment, but with a alf sigh she - rpliedt-- 'I fear you read my character rightly. A hrine suggests many offerings, and a divinity nany worshippers." Zell laughed outright, and said, "In that re- pect all women would be shrines and divinities if hey could." .  Van Dam and Goulden could not suppress a nmile at the unfortunate issue- of Elliot's senti- nent, while the latter glanced keenly to see how nuch truth was hinted in the badinage. "For my part,'Jaid Laura, looking fixedly at lothing, "I would rather have one true devotee han a thousand pilgrims who were gushing at very shrine they met.'" "Bravo!" cried Mr. Goulden. "That was the :eenest arrow yet flown;" for the other two roung men were notorious flirts, "I do not think so. Its point was miuch too )road," said Zell, with a meaning look at Mr. Joulden, that brought a faint color into his im. )erturbable face, and an angry flush on Laura's. A disconcerted manner had shown that even Xus' vanity had not been impervious to, Edith's   "     WB1 T CAN SHE DO  barth, but he had now recovered himself, and ren* tured again. "I would have my divinity a patron saint suffi- ciently human to pity human weakness, and sc come at last to listen to no other prayer- than minle." "Surely, Mr. Elliot, you would wish your saint to listen for some other reason than your weak- ness only," said Edith. "Come, ladies and gentlemen, I move this party breaks up, or some one will get-hurt," said Gus, with a half vexed laugh. "What is the matter?" asked Edith inno cently. "Yes," echoed Zell, rising, " what is the matter with you, Mr. Van Dam? Are you asleep, that you are so quiet? Tell us about your divinity." "I am an astronomer and fire worshipper, somewhat dazzled at present by the nearness and brilliancy of my bright luminary." "Nonsense, your sight is failing, and you have mistaken a will-o'-the-wisp for the sun, Dancing here, dancing there, Catch it if you can and dare." and she flitted away before him. lie followed with his intent eyes and graceful. serpent-like gliding, knowing her to be under a spell that would soon bring her fluttering back. After circling round him a few moments she   THE SKIES D, ARKXENIG.    47 took his arm and he commenced breathing into her ear the poison of his passion. No woman could remain the   ^ after being. with Mr. Van Dam. Out of tl    abundance of his heart he spoke, but the venom of his words and manner were all the more deadly because so subtle, so minutely and delicately distributed, that it was like a pestilential atmosphere, in' which truth and purity withered. No parent should permit to his daughters the companionship of a thoroughly bad man, whatever his social standing. His very-tone and glance are unconsciously demoralizing, and even if he tries, he cannot prevent the bitter waters overflowing from their bad source, his heart. Mr. Van Dam did not try. He meant to secure Zell, with or without her father's approval, believ- ing that when the marriage was once consummated, Mr. Allen's consent and money would follow eventually. For some little time 16nger the young ladies and their favored attendants strolled about the rooms in quiet tete-a-tete, and then the gentlemen bowed themselves out. The door-bell had rung several times during the - evening, but Hannibal, with the solemnity of a funeral, had quenched each comer by saying with the decision of the voice of fate,- "De ladies am engaged, sah," and no Cerberus at the door, or mailed warder of the middle ages, could have proved such an effectual barrier against   48      WHAT CAN SHE DO  all intruders as this old negro in his white waist, coat and stiff necktie, backed by the usage of mode ern society. Indeed, in some respects he was a greater potentate than old king Canute, for he could say to the human passions, inclinations and desires that surged up to Mr. Allen's front door, "Thus far and no farther." But upon this evening there was a caller who looked with cool, undaunted eyes upon the stiff necktie and solemn visage rising above it, and to  Hannibal's reiterated statement, "Dey am en. gaged," replied in a quiet tone of command,- "Take that card to Miss Edith." Even Hannibal's sovereignty broke down before -this persistent, imperturbable visitor, and scratching his head with a perplexed grin he half soliloquized, half replied,- "Miss Edith mighty'ticlar to hab her orders obeyed." "I am the best judge in this case," was the decisive response. "You take the card and I will be responsible." Hannibal came to the conclusion that for some occult reason the gentleman, who was well known, to him, had a right to pronounce the " open sesame" where the portal had remained closed to all others, and being a diplomatist, resolved to know more tully the quarter of the wind before assuming too much, But his state-craft was sorely puzzled to know why one of Mr. Allen's under-clerks should suddenly appear in the role of social caller upon   THE SKIES DARKENI&NG.     49 the young ladies, for Mr. Fox, the gentleman in question, ostensibly had no higher position. His appearance and manner indicated a mystery. Old Hannibal's wool had not grown white for noth- ing, and he was the last man in the world to go through a mystery^s a blundering bumblebee would through a spide e"b. He was for leaving the web all intact till hi knew who spuin it and who itfas to catch. If it wa Mr. Allen's work or Miss Edith'it must stand; if not he could play bumble- bee witha vengeance, and carry off the gossamer of intrigue with one sweep. So, showing Mr. Fox into a small reception room, he made his way to the library door with a motion that reminded you of a great, stealthy cat, and called in a loud, impressive whisper,- "Miss Edith!" Edith at once rose and joined him, knowing that her prime minister had some important ques- tion of state to present when summoning her in that tone. Screened by the library door, Hannibal conr menced in a depreca' ing way,- "I told Mr. Fox you'se engaged, but 1he say I must give you dis card. He kinder acted as if he own dis niggar and de whole establishmeint."' A sudden heavy frown drew Edith's dark eye. brows together and she said loud enough for Mr, Fox in his azmbush to hear,- "Was there ever such impudence!'" and straightway the frown passed to the listener, inten- 3   50-     WHA T CAN SHE DO  sified, like a flying cloud darkening one spot now and another a moment later. - Return the card, and say I am engaged," she said haughtily. "Stay," she added thoughtfully:.  "Perhaps he wished to see papa, or there is some important business matter which needs immediate attention. If not, dismiss him,'" and Edith return. ed to the library quite as much puzzled as Hannibal had been. Two or three times recently she had found Mr. Fox's card on returning from evenings out. Why had he called'? She had only a cool, bowing acquaintance with him, formed by his com- ing occasionally to see her father on business, and her father had not thought it worth, while to form- Illy introduce Mr. Fox to any of his family at such times, but had treated him as a sort of upper ser- vant. He certainly was putting on strange airs, as her old grand vizier had intimated. But in the game of cards and her other little game with Gus, she soon forgot his existence.    / Meantime Hannibal, reassured, was regal again and marched down the marble hall with some of the feeling and bearing of his great namesake. If there were a web here, the Allens were not spin- ning it, and he owed Mr. Fox nothing but a slight grudge for his " airs." Therefore with the manner of one feeling him- self master of the situation he said,- "Hab you a message for Mr. Allen?" "No," replied Mr Fox quietly. ' Den I tell you again Miss Edith am engaged w                  .  .'   THE SXKES DARKEN/NG.      5 Looking straight into Hannibal's eyes, without a muscle changing in his impassive facei Mr. Fox said in the steady tone of command,- "Say to Miss Edith I will call again,"' and he passed out of the door as if he were mnaster of the situation. Hannibal rolled up his eyes till nothing but the whites were seen, and muttered,- - 'a Brass aint no name for it." Mr. Fox's action can soon be explained. While accustomed to operate largely in Wall street through his brokers, Mr. Allen was also the head of a cloth- importing firm. This in fact had been his regular and legitimate business, but like so many others, he -had been drawn into the vortex of speculation and after many lucky hits had acquired that\over- weening confidence that prepares a way for fall. He came to believe that he had only to put his hand to a thing to give it the needful impulse to success. .In his larger and more exciting opera- tions in Wall street he had left cloth business main- ly to his junior partners and dependents, they em- ploying his capital. Mr. Fox was merely a clerk in this establishment, and not in very high stand- ing either. He was also another unwholesome product of metropolitan life. As office boy among , the lawyers, as a hanger-on of the criminal courts, he had scrambled into a certain kind of legal knowl- edge and gained a small pettifogging practice, when an opening in Mr. Allen's business led to his pres. ent connection. Mr. Allen felt that in his varied   52      WHA T CAN 'SHE DO? and extended business he needed a man of Mr Fox's stamp to deal with the legal questions that came up, look after the intricacies of the revenue laws, and manage the' immaculate saints of the custom-house. As far as the firm had dirty, disaw greeable, perplexing work to do, Mr. Fox was to do it. Whenever it came in contact with the mar jesty (?) of the law and government, Mr. Fox was to represent it. Whenever some Israelite in whom was guile sought, on varied pretext, to wriggle out of the whole or part of a bill, the wary Mr. Fox met and skirmished on the same plane with the adversary, and won the little fight with the same-weapons. I would not for a moment give the impression that Mr. Allen was in favor of sharp practice. He merely wished to conduct his business on the business principles and practice of the day, and it was not his purpose, and certainly not his policy, to pass beyond the law. But even the judges disagree as to what the law is, and he was dealing with many who thrived by evading it; therefore the need of a nimble Mr. Fox who could burrow and double on his tracks with the best of them. All went well for years and the firm was saved many an annoyance, many a loss, and if this guerilla of the house, as perhaps we may term him, had been as devoted to Mr. Allen's interests as to his own, all might have gone well to the end. But these very sharp men are apt to cut both ways and so it turned out in this case. The astute Mr.   THE S IES DARK AENIG Ar' Foxldetermined to faithfully serve Mr. Allen as long as he could faithfully and preeminently serve himself. If he who had scrambled from the streets to his present place of power could reach a higher position by stepping on the great rich merchant, such power would hape additional satisfaction. He;was as kecn-scentec after money as Mr.;Allen only the latter hunted l--lion, and the former like a fox. He mastered   r. Alien's business thoroughly win all its details. Until recently no opportunity had occurred save work, which, though useful, caused him to be half-despised by the others who would not, or could not do it. But of late he had gained a strong vantage point. He watch- ed with intense interest Mr. Allen's attraction toward, and entrance upon, a speculation that he knew to be as uncertain of issue as large in pro- portions, for if the case ever became critical, he was conscious of the power of introducing a ;ery important element into the problem. In his care of -the custom-house business he had discovered technical violations of the revelue laws which already involved the loss to the firm of a million dollars, and with his peculiar loyalty to himself, thought this knowledge ought to be worth a  great deal. As Mr. Allen went down into the deep waters of Wall street, he saw that it might by6 In saving his employer from wreck he might vir. tually become captain of the ship. After this brief delineation of character, it would strike the reader as very incongruous to   54     WHA T CAN SHE D0?    say that Mr. Fox had fallen in love with Edith Mr. Fox never stumbled or fell. He could slide down and scramble up to any extent, and when cornered could take as flying a leap as a cat. But, he had been greatly impressed by Edith's beauty, and to win her also would be: an additional and piquant feature in the game. He had absolute confidence in money, much of which he might have gained from Mr. Allen himself. He knew a million of her father's:money was in his power, and this, in a certain sense, placed him in the position of a saitor worth a million, and such he knew to be almost omnipotent on the Avenue. If this money could also be the means of causing Mr. Allen's ruin, or saving him from it, he believed that Edith would beis as truly as the bonds and certificates of stock that he often counted and gloated over. Even before Mr. Allen entered on what he called his great and final operation for'the present, he was half inclined to show his hand and make the most of it, but within the last few days he had learned that perhaps a greater opportunity was opening before him. Meantime in the full con- sciousness of power he had commenced calling on Edith, as we have seen, something as a cat likes to play around and watch a caged oird, which it expects to have in its claws before long. The next morning at breakfast Edith mentioned Mr. Fox's recent calls. " What is he coming here for?" growled Mr, Allen, looking with a frown at his daughter.   SE  I SKIES DARKENaG. ' I'm sure I don't know." "I hope you don't see him." "Certainly not. I was out the first two times an tlast night sent word that I was engaged. Bvlt he insisted on his card being given to mine and put, on airs generally, so Hannibal seems to think." That dignitary gave a confirming and indig- nant grunt.     , "He said he would call again, didn't he, Hanni- bal?" '"Yes'm," blurted Hannibal, "and he looked as if de next time he'd put us all in his breeches pocket and carry us off." "What's Fox up to now?" muttered    Mr. Allen, knitting his brows. "I must look into But- even within a few hours the cloud land of W\all street had changed  some of its aspects. The sereneness Bf the preceding day was giving place to - indications of a disturbance in the financial atlnosphere.  He had te buy more stock to keep the control he was gallining on the market, and things were not shaping favorably for its rise.. He was already carrying a tremendous load, and even his Herculean shoulders began to feel the burden. In the press and rush of business he forgot about Fox's  social ambition in venturing to call where such men as Van Dam and Gus Elliot had undis. puted rights. Those upon whom  society lays its halnds are o  rthodox of course,  WaII^^^^;   56      WHA Tr CAN SHE DO.?  The wary Fox was watching the stock market as closely as Mr. Allen, and chuckled over the aspect of affairs; and he concluded to keep quietly out of the way a little longer, and await further developments. Things moved rapidly as they usually do in the maelstrom of speculation. Though Mr. Allen was a trained athlete in business, the strain upon him grew greater day by day. But true to his promise and in accordance with his habit of promptness, he transferred the deed for the little place in the country to Edith, who gloated over its dry techni- calities as if they were full of romantic hope and suggestion to her. One day when alone with Laura, Mr. Allen asked her suddenly,- "Has Mr, Goulden made any formal proposal yet?  With rising color Laura answered,-- No. "Why not? He seems very slow about it." it I hardly know-how you expect me to reply to such a question," said Lauraha little haughtily. 'u Is he as attentive as ever?" 'Yes, I suppose so, though he has not called quite so often of late." "Humph!" ejaculated Mr. Allen meditatively, adding after a moment, "Can't you make him speak out? ' "You certainly don't mean me to propose to him?" asked Laura, reddening.   , '* THE SKIES DARKENINrG,  "No no, no!" said her father with some irri. tation, "but any clever woman can make iman  who has gone as far as Mr. Goulden, commit him. self whenever she chooses. Your' mother would have had the thing settled long ago, or else would have enjoyed the pleasure of refusing him." "I am notmistress of that kind of finesse" said Laura coldly. "You are a woman," replied her father coolly, '* and don't need any lessons. It would be well fo us boh if you would exert your native power in O this case." Laura glanced keenly at her father an asked quickly,- "What do you mean?" "Just what I say. A hint to the wise is suffi- cient." , Having thus indicated to his daughter that phase of Wall street tactics and principles that could be developed on the Avenue, he took him. self off to the central point of operations. 8*   CHAPTER VN THE STORM THREATENING. "AURA had a better motive than suggested by her father for wishing to lead Mr. Goulden to commit himself, for as'far as she could love any one beyond herself, she loved him, and also realized fully that he could continue to her all that her ele. gant and expensive tastes craved. Notwithstand' ing her .show of maidenly pride and reserve, she was ready enough to do as she had been bidden. Mr. Allen guessed as much. Indeed, as was quite natural, his wife was the type of the average woman to his mind, only he believed that she was a little cleverer in these matters than the majority. The manner in which she had "hooked"' him made a deep and lasting impression on his memory. But Mr. Goulden was a wary fish. He had no objections to being hooked if the conditions were all right, and until satisfied as to these, he would play around at a safe distance. As he saw Mr. Allen daily getting into deeper water, he grew more cautious. His calls were not quite so fre. quent.- He always managed to be- with Laura in company with others, and while his manner was very complimentary, it was never exactly lover-like. Therefore, all l,aura's feminine, diplomacy was in -   THE STORM THREA TENING.     59 vain, and that which a woman can say frankly the moment a man speaks, she could scarcely hint Moreover, Mr. Goulden was adroit enough to chill her heart while he flattered her'vanity. Thete was something about his manner she could not understand, but it was impossible to take offence at the polished gentleman. Her father understood him better. He saw that Mr. Goulden had resolved to settle the ques- tion on financial principles only. As the chances diminished of securing him indirectly tihrough Laura as a prop to his tottering fortunes, he at last came to the conclusion to try to interest him directly ini his speculation, feeling sure if he -could control only a part of Mr. Goul- den's large means and credit, he could carry his operation through successfully. Mr. Goulden warily listened to the scheme, warily weighed it, and concluded within the brief compass of Mr. Allen's explanation to have nothing to do with it. But his outward manner was all deference and courteous attention. At the end of Mr. Allen's rather eager and rose-colored statements, he replied in politest and most regretful tones that he " was very sorry he could not avail himself of so promising an opening, but in fact, he was ' in deep' himself--carrying all he could stand up under very well, and-was rather in the borrowing than in the lending line at pres, ent."  Keen Mr. Allen saw through 'all this in a   60     WKHA T CAN SHE DO 0 moment, and his face flushed angrily in spite of -his efforts at self-control. Muttering something to the effect,-- "I thought I would give you a chance to make a good thing,' he bade a rather abrupt '"good morning." As the pressure grew heavier upon him he was led to do a thing, the suggestion of which a few weeks previously, he would have regarded as anl insult. Mrs. Allen had a snug little property of her own, which had been secured to her on first mortgages, and in bonds that were quiet and safe. These her husband held in trust for her, and now pledged theim as collateral on which to borrow money to carry through his gigantic operation. In respect to part of this transaction, Mrs. Allen was obliged to sign a paper which might have re- vealed to her the danger involved, but she lan- guidly took the pen, yawned, and signed away the result of her father's long years of toil without reading a line'.  "There," she said, "I hope you will not bother me about business again. Now in regard to this party"-and she was about to enter into an eager discussion of all the complicated details, when her husband, interrupting, said;-- "Another time, my dear- I am very much pressed by business at present." "O, -businers, nothing but business,"' whined his wife. "You never have time to attend to me or your family."   THE STORM THREA TENING.    - 61 But Mr. Allen was out of hearing of the querulous tones before the sentence was finished. Of course he never meant 'that his wife should lose a cent, and to satisfy his conscience, and im- pressed by hi's danger, he resolvh-ed that as soon as he was out of this quaking morass of speculation he would settle on his wife and each daughter enough to secure them in wealth through life and arrange it in such a way that no one could touch the principal. The large sum that he now secured eased up matters and helped him greatly, and affairs began to wear a brightening aspect. He felt sure that the stock he had invested in was destined to rise in time, and indeed it already gave evidences of buoyancy. He noticed with an inward chuckle that Mr. Goulden began to call a little oftener. He was the   best financial barometer in Wall street. But the case would require the most adroit and delicate management for weeks still, and this Mr. Allen could have given. Success also depended on a favorable state of the money market, and a good degree of stability and quietness throughout the financial world. Political changes in Europe, a war in Asia, heavy failures in Liverpool, Lojndon or Paris. might easily spoil all. Reducing Mr. Allen's vast complicated operation to its final analysis, he had simply bet several millions-all he had, that nothing would happen throughout the world that could interfere with a schemne so prob   62      WHAT CAN SHE DO? lematical that the chances could scarcely be called even. But gambling is occasionally successful, and it began to look as if Mr. Allen would win his bet; and so he might} had nothing happened. The world was quiet enough, remarkably quiet, consid- ering the superabundance of explosive elements everywhere. The financial centres seethed on as usual, like a witch's cauldron, but there were no infernal ebul- litions in the form of "Black Fridays." The storm that threatened to wreck Mr. Allen was no wide, sweeping tempest, but rather one of those little local whirlwinds that sometimes in the West destroy a farm or township. For the last few weeks Mr. Fox had quietly watched the game, matured his plans, and secured his proof in the best legal form. He now con- cluded it was time to act, as he believed Mr. Allen to be in his power. So one morning he coolly walked into that gentleman's office, closed the door and took a seat. Mr. Allen looked up wiih an ex pression of surprise and annoyance on his face. He instinctively disliked Mr. Fox, as a lion might be irritated by a cat, and the instinctive enmity was all the stronger, because of a certain family like- ness. But Mr. Allen's astuteness had nothing mean or cringing in it, while Mr. Fox heretofore had been a sort of Uriah Heep to him. Therefore his surprise and annoyance at his new role of cool confidence. ]F     "      .!   THE STORM THREA TNING.      63 "Well, sir," said he, rather impatiently, return. ing to his writing, as a broad hint that communica, lions must be brief if made at all. "Mr. Allen," said Mr. Fox, in that clear cut decisive tone; that betokens resolute purpose, and a little anger also, "I must request you to give me . your undivided attention for a little time, and sure- ly what I am about to say is important enough to make it worth the,while." Though Mr. Allen flushed angrily, he knew that his clerk would not employ such a tone and man- ner without reason, so he raised his head and look. ed steadily at his unwelcome visitor and again said briefly,-- "Well, sir." "I wish, in the first place," said Mr. Fox, think- ing to begin with the least important exaction, and gradually reach a climax in his extortion, "I wish permission to pay my addresses to your daughter Miss Edith." Knowing nothing of a father's pride and affe!- tion, he unwittingly brought in the climax first. The angry flush deepened on Mr. Alien's face, but he still managed to control himself, and to re. member that the father of three pretty daughters must expect some scenes like these, and the only thing to do was to get rid of the objectionable suit- ors as civilly as possible. He was also too much of an American to put on any of the high stepping airs of the European aristocracy. Here it is sim ply one sovereign proposing for the daughter of   -   -64      WHA T CAN SHE DO another, and generally the young people practical ly arrange it all before asking any consent in the case. After all, Mr. Fox had only pai djis daugh, ter the highest compliment in his power, and if any other of his clerks had made a similar request lhe would probably have given as k'nd and delicate a refusal as possible. It was because he disliked Mr. Fox, and instinctively gauged his character, that he said with a short, dry laugh,- "Come, Mr. Fox, you are forgetting yourself. You have been a useful employee in my store. If you feel that you should have more salary, namne what will satisfy you, and I .will consult my part- ners, and try and arrange it." ' There," thought he, " if he can't take that hint as to his place, I shall have to give him a kick." But both surprise and anger began to get the better of him when Mr. Fox replied,- , a I must really beg your closer attention; I said nothing of increased salary. You will soon see that is no object with me now. I asked your per- mission to pay my addresses to your daughter." "I decline to give it," said Mr. Allen, harshy, "and if I hear any more of this nonsense I will discharge you from my employ." "Why?" was the quiet response, yet spoken with the intensity of passion. "Because I never would permit my daughter to marry a man in your circumstances, and if you will have it, you are not the style of a man I would wish to take into my family." B              ,  .   THE STORM THREA TENING.     65 "If a man who was worth a million asked for your daughter's hand, would you answer him in this manner?"   "PW aps not," said Mr. Allen, with another of his short dry laughs, which expressed little save irritation, ' but you have my answer as respects yourself." "I am not so sure of that," was the bold retort. "I am practically worth a million-indeed several millions to you, as you are now situated. You have talked long- enough in the dark, Mr. Allen. F6r some time back there have been itL your im- portations violations of the revenue laws. I have only to give the facts in my possession to the proper authorities and the government would- legally claim from you a million of dollars, of which I should get half. So you see that I am positively worth five hundred thousand, and to you I am worth a million with respect to this item alone." Mr. Allen sprang excitedly to his feet. Mr. Fox coolly got up and edged toward the- door, which he had purposely left unlatched. * "Moreover," continued Mr. Fox, in his hard metallic voice, " in view of your other operations in Wall street, which I know all about, the loss of a million would involve the loss of all you have." Mr. Fox now had his hand on the door-knob, and Mr. Allen was glaring at. him as if purposing to rush upon and rend him to pieces. Standing in the passage-way, Mr. Fox conclu- ded in a low, meaning tone,-   Ow      WHA r CAN SHE DO! You had better make terms with me within -twenty-four hours." And the door closed sharply, reminding one of the shutting of a steel trap. Mr. Allen sank suddenly back in his chair and stared at the closed door, looking as if be might have been a prisoner and all escape cut off. He seemed to be in a lethargy or under a par. tial paralysis; he slowly and weakly rubbed his head with his hand, as if vaguely conscious that the trouble was there. Gradually the stupor began to pass off, his blood to circulate, and his mind to realize his situ- ation. Rising feebly, as if a sudden age ha;, fallen on him, he went to the door and gave orders that he must not be disturbed, and then sat down to think. Half an hour later he sent for his lawyer, stated the case to him, enjoined secrecy, and asked him to see Fox, hoping that it might be a case of mere black-mailing bravado. Keen as Mr. Allen's lalw- yer was, he had more than his match in the astute Mr. Fox. Moreover the latter had everything in his favor. There had been a slight infringement of the revenue laws, and though involving but small loss to the government, the consequences were the same.' The invoice would be confiscated as soon as the facts were known. Mr. Fox had secured ample proof of this. Mr. Allen might be able to prove that there. was no intention to violate the law, as indeed there -                 .;   rTH SrTOR  THREA rENING.   67  had not been. In fact, he had left those, matters to his subordinates, and they had been a little care- less, averaging matters, contenting themselves with complying with the general intent of the law, rather than, with painstaking care, conforming to its letter. But the law is very matter-of-fact, and can be excessively literal when money is to be made by those who live by enforcing or evading it, as may suit them. Mr. Fox could carry his case, if he pressed it, and secure his share of the plunder. On account of a very slight loss,. Mr. Allen might be compelled to lose a million. Before the day's decline the lawyer had asked Mr. Fox to take no further steps, stating vaguely that Mr. Allen would look into the- matter, and would not be unreasonable. - A sardonic grin gave a momentary lurid hue to Mr. Fox's sallow face. Knowing the game to be in his -own hands, he could quietly bide his time; so, assuming a tone of much moderation and dig- nity, he replied; he had no wish to be hard, and could be reasonable .also. '- But,' added he, in a meaning tone, ' there must bbe no double work in this matter. Mr. Allen must see what I am worth to him-nothing could be-plainer. His best policy now is to act promptly and liberally toward rie. for I pledge you my word that if Iw see any dispose sition to evade my requirements I will blow out the bottom of everything," and a snaky glitter in his small black eyes showed how remorselessly he could scuttle the ship bearing Mr. Allen's fortunes -- '. -; A   -68     7HVlA T CAN SHE DO? A speedy investigation showed Mr. Fox's fatal poiwer, and Mr. Allen's partners were for paying him off, but when they found that he exacted an interest in the business, that quite threw them into the background; they were indignant and in- clined to fight it out. Mr. Allen coul(not tell them that he was in no condition to fight. If his financial status had been the same as some weeks previously, he would rather have lost the million than have listened one moment to Mr. Fox's repul- sive conditions, but now to risk litigation and com- mercial reputation on one hand, and total ruin on the other, was an abyss from which he shrank back appalled. His only resource was to temporize, both with his partners and Mr. Fox, and so gain time, hoping that the Wall street scheme, that had caused so much evil, might also cure it. Of course he could not tell his partners how he was situated. The slightest breath of suspicion nlight cause the evenly balanced scales in which hung all chances to hopelessly decline. It now showed a decided tendency to rise.    1 If he could only keep- things quiet a little longer-- Edith must help him. Calling her into the library after dinner, he asked: "Has Mr. Fox called lately?" "No, sir, not for some little time." "  W!l you oblige me by seeing him and being iyil if he calls agai n " 3,   THE STORM THREA TENING.     69 ' Why, papa, I thought you did not wish me to see him." "Circumstances have altered since then. Is he very disagreeable'to you?" "Well papa, I have scarcely thought of him, but to tell you the truth when he has been here on business, I have involuntarily thought of a mous- ing cat or the animal he is named after, on the scent of a hen-roost. But of course I can be civil or even polite to him if you wish it." A spasm of pain crossed her father's face and 'he put his hand hastily to his head, a frequent act of late. He rose and took a few turns up and down the room, muttering,-- "Curse it all, I must tell her. Half knowledge is always dangerous, and is sure to lead to blunders,. and there must be no blunders now." Stopping abruptly before his daughter, he said, "He has proposed for your hand.?'  An expression of disgust flitted across Edith's face, and she replied quickly,- "We both have surely but one answer to such a proposition from him." ' Edith, you seem to have more sense in regard to business and such matters than most young la- dies. [ must now test you, and it is for you to show whether you are a woman or a shallow-brain- ed girl. I am sorry to tell you these things. They are not suited to your age or sex, but there is no help for it," and he explained how he was situated. Edith listened with paling cheek, dilating eyes   70     v WHAT CAN SHE DOo and parting lips, but still with a rising courage and growing purpose to help her father.- "1 do not wish you to marry this villain," he continued. "Heaven foibid;" (not that Mr. Al- len referred this or any other matter to'Heaven; it was only a strong way of expressing his own dis. approval.) 1'Butt we must manage to temporize and keep this man at bay till I can extricate myself from my difficulties. As soon as I stand on firm ground I will defy-him." To Edith, with her standard of morality, the course indicated by her father seemed eminently filial and praiseworthy. The thought of marrying Mr. Fox made her flesh creep. but a brief flirtation was another affair. She had flirted not a little in her day for the mere amusement of the thing, and with the motives her father had presented, she could do it in this case as- if it were an act of devo- tion. Of the pure and 16fty morality of the Bible she had as little idea as a Persian houri, and rugged Roman virtue could not develop in the social at. mosphere in which the Aliens lived.. It was with a clear conscience that she resolved to beguile Mr. Fox, and signified as much to her father. "Play him off," said this model father, " as Mr. Goulden does Laura. Curse him!-how I would like to slam the front door in his face. But my time may come yet," he added with set teeth. That morning Mr. Allen sent for Mr. Fox, as he dared brave him no longer without some definite show of yielding, in order to keep back his fatal   THEr STORM THNERA TENING     7 disclosures. With a dignity and formality scarcely in keeping with his fear and the import of his words, he said,- - "I have considered your statements, sir, and ad. mit their weight. As I informed you through my lawyer, I wish to be reasonable and hope you inl. tend to be the same, for these are very/grave mat- ters. In regard to my daughter, you have my per- mission to call upon her as do her other gentleman friends, and she will receive you. In this land, that is all the vantage ground a gentleman asks, as in.. deed it is all that can be granted. I am not the king of Dahomey or the Shah of Persia, and- able to give my daughters where interest may dictate. A lady's inclination must be consulted. Bnt I give you the permission you ask, you may pay your ad- dresses'to my daughter. You could scarcely ask a father to say more." "It matters little to me what you or others say, but much what they do. My action shall be based upon yours and Miss Edith's. I have learned in your employ the value of promptness in all business matters. I hope you understand me." "I do, sir, but there can be no indecent haste in these matters. In gaining the important posi. tion-in assuming the relations you desire,-4there'. should be some show of dignity, -.otherwise society will be disgusted, and you would lose the respect which should follow such vast acquirements." "Where I can secure the whole cloth, I shall i^ot !   \  .   72      WHA T CAN SHE DO?  worry about the selvage of etiquette and oassi g opinion," was Mr. Fox's cynical reply. Mr. Allen could not prevent an e'xpression -of intense disgust from coming out upon his face, end he replied with some heat,- "Well, sir, something is due to my own position, and I can not treat my daughter like a bale of cloth, as you suggest in your figurative-speech. However," he added, warily, "I will take the neces- sary steps as soon, as possible, and will trespass upon yout timne no longer." As Mr. Fox glided out of the office with his sardonic smile, Mr. Allen felt for the moment that he would rather break than make terms with him. Meanwhile the month of February was rapidly passing, though eacai day was an age of anxiety and suspense to Mr. Allen. The tension was too much for him, and he evidently aged and failed un- der it. He drank more than he ate, and his temper was very variable. From his wife he only received chidings and complaints that in his horrid " mania for business" he was neglecting her and his family in general. She could never get him to sit down and talk sensibly of the birthday and debut party that was now so near. He would always say, testily, "manage it to suit yourselves." Laura and Zell were too much wrapped up in their own affairs to give much thought to anything else. But Edith, of late understood her father and felt deeply for him. GOe evening finding him sit   THE STORM THREA TENING.     73 ting dejectedly alone in the library after dinner, she said.,- "Why go on with this party, papa? I am sure I am ready to give it up if it will be any relief to you.' The heart of this strong, confident man of the world was sore and lofely. For perhaps the first time he felt the need of support and sympathy. He drew his beautiful daughter, that thus far he had scarcely more than admired, down upon his lap and buried his face upon her shoulder. A breath of divine impulse swept aside for a moment the narrow stifling curtains of his sordid life, and he caught a glimpse of the large happy realm of love. "And would you really give up anything for the sake of your old father?" he asked in a low tone. "Everything," cried Edith, much moved by the unusual display of affection and feeling on the part of -her father. "The others would not,'9 said he bitterly "Indeed, papa, I think they would If they only knew. We would all do anything to see you your old jovial self again. Give up this wretched struggle; tell Mr. Fox to do his worst. I am not afraid of being poor; I am sure we could work up again." iYou know nothing about poverty,' sighed her father. i, When you are down, the world that bowed at your feet, will run over and trample on 4   74      WHAT CAN SHE DO? you. I have seen it so often, but never thought of danger to me and mine." "But this party," said :ne practical Edith, "why not give this up? It wiil cost a great deal.' "By no means give it up," said her father. ' It may help me very much. My credit is everything now. 'The appearance of wealth which such a display insures, will do much to secure the wealth. I am watched day and night, and must show no sign of weakness. Go on with the party and make it as brilliant as possible. If i fail, two or three thousand will make no difference, and it may help me to succeed. Whatever strengthens my credit for the next few days. is everything to me. My stock is rising, only it is too slow. Things look better--if I could only gain time. But I am very uneasy-my head troubles me,' and he put his hand to his -head, and Edith remembered how often she had seen him do that of late. "By the way," said he, abruptly, "tell me how you get on with Mr. Fox." "O, never mind about that now; do rest a little, mind and body." "No, tell me," said her father sharply, showing how little control he had over himself. "Well, I think I have beaten him so far. He is very demonstrative, and acts as if I belonged to him. Did I not manage to always meet him in company with others, he would come at once to an open declaration. As it is, I cannot prevent it much longer. -He  is coming this evening, and I   THE STORM THREA TENING.     75 fear he will press matters. He seems to think that the asking is a mere form and that our extremity will leave no choice." "You must avoid him a little longer. Come, we will go to the theatre; and then you might be sick for a few days." "In a few minutes they were off, and were scarcely well away when Mr. Fox, dressed in more style than he could carry gracefully, appeared. "Miss Edith am out,.' said Hannibal loftily. "I half believe you lie," muttered Mr. Fox, looking very black. "Sarch de house, sah. It am a berry gentle-., manly proceeding." "Where has she gone, and who did she go with?-' "I hab no orders to say,' said Hannibal looking fixedly at the ceiling of the vestibule. The knightly suitor turned on his heel, muttering, "They are playing me false.' 'Twas a pity, and he so true. The next day Edith was sick and Mr. Allen's stock was rising. Hannibal again sent Mr. Fox baffled away, 'but with a dangerous gleam in his eyes. ^  On the following morning Mr. Allen found a note on his desk. His face grew livid as he read it, and he often put his hand to his head. He sat down and wrote to this effect, however,- '; I am arranging the partnership matter as rap- 4dly as possible. In regard to my daughter you will i?  - -          *"      76      WftA T CAN SHE DO? ruin all if you show no more discretion. I can not compel her to marry you. You may make it im. possible to influence her in your favor. You have been well received. What more can you ask? A matter of this kind must be arranged delicately."' Mr Fox pondered ove' this with a peculiarly foxy expression. "It sounds plausible. If I only thought he was true,"' soliloq!uized this embodiment of truth.      , Mr. Allen's stock was higher, and Mr. Fox watched the rise grimly, but he saw Edith, who was all smiles, and graciousness, and gave him a verbal invitation to her birthday-party which was to take place early in the following week. The fellow had considerable vanity, and was en- snared, his-suspicions quieted for the time. Valu- ing money himself supremely, it seemed most ra- tional that father and dauglter should regard him as the most eligible young man in the city. Edith's friends, and G s in particular, were rather astonished at the new comer. Laura was frigid and remonstrative, Zell and Mr. Van Dam satirical, but Edith wilfully tossed her head and said, "He was clever and well off, and she liked him well enough to talk to him a little. Society had made her a good actress. Meanwhile on the Tues, day following (and this was Friday) the long e x, pected party would take place. I   CHAPTER VI. THE WRECK. rN Saturday Mr. Alien's stock was rising, and-  he ventured to sell a little in a quiet way. If he "unloaded" rapidly and openly, he would break down the market. Mr. Fox watched events uneasily. Mr. Goul- den grew genial and more pronounced in his atten-- tions. Gus, on Saturday, showed almost equal solicitude for a decisively favorable answer as Mr. Fox, if the language of his eyes could mean any- thing; but Edith played him and Mr. Fox off against each other so adroitly that they were learn- ing to hate one another as cordially as they agreed in admiring her. Though she inclined in her favor to Mr. Fox, he was suspicious from nature, and annoyed at never being able to see her lone. As before, they were at cards together in the library, Edith went for a moment into the parlor to get something. With the excuse of obtaining it for her, Mr. Fox followed, and the moment they were alone, he seized her hand and pressed a kiss upon it. An angry flush came into her face, but by a great effort she so far controlled herself as to put her finger to her lips and point to the library, as if her chief anxiety was that the attention of its   78      WHA T CAN SHE DO  occupants should- not be excited. Mr. Fox was delighted, though the angry flush was a little puz- zling. But if Edith permitted that, she would permit more, and if her only shrinking was that others should not see and know at present, that could soon be overcome. These thoughts passed through his mind while the incensed girl hastily obtained what she wished. But she, feeling that her cheeks were too hot to return immediately to the critical eyes in the library, passed out through the front parlor, that she might have time to be , herself again when she appeared. On what little vrg links destiny sometimes hangs! That which changed all her future and that of others-that involving life -and death, occurred in the half moment occupied, in her passing out of the front parlor. The consequences she wold feel most keenly, terribly irdeed at times, though she might never guess the cause. Her act was a simple, natural one under- the circumstances, and yet it told Mr. Fox, in his' cat-like watchfulness, that with all his cunning he was being made a fool of. The moment Edith had passed around the sliding door and thought herself unobserved, an expression of intense disgust came out upon her expressive face, and with her lace handkerchief she rubbed the hand he had kissed, as if removing the slime of a reptile; and the large mirror at the- farther end of the room had faithfully reflected the suggestive little pantomime. He saw and under. stood all in a flash A,             ;   THE WRECK.        79 No words could have so plainly told her feeling toward him, and he was one of those reptiles that could sting remorselessly in revenge. The nature of the imposition practiced upon him and the fact that it was partially successful and might have been wholly so, cut him in the sorest spot. lie who thought himself able to cope with the shrewd- est and most artful, had been overreached by a girl, and he saw at that moment, that her purpose to beguile him long enough for Mr. Allen to extricate himself from his difficulties, might have been suc- cessful. He had had before an uneasy conscious- ness that he ought to act decisively, and now he knew it., I'm a fool-a cursed fool," he muttered, speaking the truth for once, "but it's not too late yet." His resolution was taken instantly, but .when Edith appeared after a moment in the library, smiling and affable again, he seemed in good spir- its also, but there was a steely, serpent-like glitter -in his eyes, that made him more repulsive than ever. But he staid as late as the others, knowing that it might be his last evening at the Aliens'. For Edith had said as part of her plan for avoiding Mr Fox,- "We shall be too busy to see any company till Tuesday evening, and then we hope to see you all."    . Her sisters had assented, expecting that it would be the case.    80      WEHAT CAN SHE D0 . With a refinement of malice, Mr. Fox sought to give general annoyance, by a polite insolence toward the others, which they with difficulty ignor- ed, and a lover-like gallantry toward Edith, which was like nettles to Gus, and nauseating to her; but she did not dare resent it. He could at least torment her a little longer. At last all were gone, and her father coming in from his club said, drawing her aside,- "All right yet? ' Yes, but I hope the ordeal will be over soon, or I shall die with disgust, orilike some I have read of in fairy stories, be killed by a poisonous breath." "Keep it up a little longe, that is a good brave girl. I think that by another week, we will be able to defy him," said her father in cheerful tones. "If my stock rises as much in the next few days, as of late, I shall soon be on terra firma."' If he had known that the mine ;beneath his feet was loaded, and the fug, fired, his full face. would have become as pale Es it was florid with wine, and the dissipation of the evening. Monday morning came-all seemed quiet. Hit stock was rising so rapidly that he determined to hold on a little longer. Goulden met and congratulated him, saying that he had bought a   little himself, and would take more if Mr. Allen would sell, as now he was easier in funds than when spoken to before on the subject, Mr. Alien replied rather coldly that he "would not sell any stock that day."   THE WRECK.        81 Mr. Fox kept out of the way, and quietly at- tended to his routine as usual, but there was a sardonic smile on his face, as if lhe were gloating over some secret evil. Tuesday, the long expected day that the Al- Iens believe& would make one of the most brilliant epochs in their history, dawned in appropriate brightness. The sun dissipated the few opposing clouds and declined in undimmed splendor, and Edith, who alone had fears and forebodings, took the day as an omenthat the storm had passed, and that better days than ever were coming. Invitations by the hundred, with imposing monogram and coat of arms, had gone out, and acceptances had flowed back in full current. All that lavish expenditure could secure in one of the most luxurious social centres of the world, had been obtained without stint to make the entertain- ment perfect. But one knew it might become like Belshazzar's feast. . The avalanche often hangs over the Alpine passes so that a loud word will bring it whirling down upon the hapless traveller, The avalanche of ruin,impending over Mr. Allen, was so delicately poised that a whisper could precipitate its crush- ing weight, and that whisper had been, spoken. All the morning of Tuesday his stock was ris- ing, and he resolved that on the morning after the party he would commence selling rapidly, and so    82      WH4 T CAN SHE DO  far qrom being broken, he would realize much of the profit that he had expected. But a rumor was floating through the after. noon papers that a well-kn wn merchant, eminent in financial and social circles, had been detected-in violating the revenue laws, and that the losses which such violation would involve to him, would be immense. The stock market, more sensitive than a belle's vanity, paused to see what it meant. One of Mr. Allen's partners of the cloth house brought a paper-to him. He grew pale as he read it, put his hand suddenly to his head, but after a moment seemingly found his voice and said,- "Could Fox have been so dastardly?" His partner shrugged his shoulder as much as to say, "Fox could do anything in that line." Mr. Allen sent for Fox, but he could not be found. In the meantime the stock market closed and the rise of his stock was evidently checked for the moment. FV reason of the party, Mr. Allen had to re- turn up town, but he arranged with his partner to remz:n and if anything new developed to send word by special messenger. By eight o'clock the Allen mansion on Fifth Avellue was all aglow with light. By nine, car. riagc-s began to roll up to the awning that stretched frorr the heavy arched doorway across the sidewalk, and 'adies that would soon glide through the spar ciou . rooms in elegant drapery, now seemed mis- shak en bundles in their wrapping, and gathered ,  ,    THE WRECK.        83 up dresses as they hurried out of the publicity of the street. The dressing rooms where the sphe- roidal bundles were undergoing metamorphose be. came buzzing centres of life. Before the long pier glasses there was a mar- shalling of every charm, real or borrowed, (more cor- rectly bought) in view of the hoped-for conquests of the evening, and it would seem that' not a few went on the military maxim that success is often secured by putting on as bold a front, and making as great and startling display, as possible. But as fragrant, modest flowers usually bloom in the gar-' den with gaudy scentless ones, so thgse inclined to be loud made an excellent foil for the refined and elegant, and thus had their uses. There is little in the world that .is not of value, looking at it from some point of view. In another apartment the opposing forces, if we may so style them, were almost as eagerly investing themselves in-shall we say charms also? or rather with the attributes of manhood? At any rate the glass in each room seems quite as anxiously con- sulted. One might almost imagine them the magic mirrors of prophecy in which anxious eyes caught a glimpse of coming fate. There were certain youthful belles and beaux who turned away with open complaisant smiles, vanity whispering plainly to them of noble achievement in the parlors below. There were others, perhaps not young, who turned away with faces composed in the rigid and habitue al lines of pride. They were past learning any, ',    84      WtHAT CAN 'SHE DO? t}hl, from the mirror, or from any other source that might reflect disparagingly upon them. Pre- judice in their own favor enveloped their minds as with a Chinese wall. Cor. ceit had become a disease with them, and those faculties that might have let in wholesome, though unwelcome truth. were paralyzed. But the majority turned away not quite satis- ed-with an inward foreboding that all was not as "as it might be-that critical eyes would see ground for criticism. Especially was this true of "those whom Time's interfering fingers had pulled somewhat awry, even beyond the remedy of art, and of those whose bank account, jewels, silks, etc., were not quite up to the standard of some othfrs who might jostle them in the crush. Realize, my reader, the anguish of a lady compelled to stand by another lady wearing larger diamonds than her own, or more point lace, or a longer train? What will the world think, as under the chandelier this painful contrast comes out? Such moments of deep humiliation cause sleepless nights, and the next day result in bills that become as crushing as criminal indictments to poor overworked men. 'Under the impulse of such trying scenes as these, many a matron has gone forth on Bt1oadway with firm' lips and eyes in which glowed inexorable pur- pose, and placed the gems that would be mill-stones about her husband's neck, on the fat armrs or fin- gers that might have helped him forward. There are many phases of heroism, but if you want your 1   THE TWRECK.       85 breath quite taken away, go to Tiffany's, and see some large-souled woman, who will not even count the cost or realize the dire consequences, how, like some martyr of the past who would show to the world the object of his faith though the heavens fell, she marches to the counter, selects the costli- est, and says in tones of majesty,- "Send the bill to my husband!." O acme of faith! . The martyrs knew that the Almighty was equal to the occasion. She knows that her husband is not; yet she trusts, or what is the same thing here, gets trusted. Men allied to such women are soon lifted up to--attics. It is still true that great deeds bring humanity nearer heaven! Therefore, my reader, deem it not trivial that I have paused so long over the Allens' party. It is philosophical to trace great events and phenomenal human action to their hidden causes. There were also diffident men and maidens who descended into the social arena of Mrs. Allen's parlors, as awkward swimmers venture into deep water, but this is fleeting experience in fashionable life. And we sincerely hope that some believed that the old divine parodox, "It is more blessed to give than to receive," is as true in the drawing- room as when the contribution-box goes round, and proposed to enjoy themselves by contributing to the enjoyment of others, and to see nothing that would tempt to heroic conduct at Tiffainy's the next day. '    86. WA T CAN SHE DO? When the last finishing touches had been givenr and maids and hairdressers stood around in wrapt politic breathlessness, and were beginning to pass into that stage in which they might be regarded as exclamation points, Mrs. Allen and her daughters swept away to take their places at the head of the parlors in order to receive. They liked the prelude of applause upstairs well enough, but then it was only like the tuning of the instruments before the orchestra fairly opens. Mrs. Allen, as she majestically took her position, evidently belonged to that class whom pride mar- bleizes. Her self-complacency on such an occasion was habitual, her coolness and repose that of a veteran. A nervous creature up stairs with her family, excitement made her, under the eye of society, so steady and self-controlled that she was like one of the old French Marshals who could plan a campaign under the hottest fire. Her blue eyes grew quite brilliant and seemed to take in every- thing, like your true general. Some natural color shone where the cosmetics permitted, and her form seemed to dilate with something more than the mysteries of French modistes. Her manner and expression said,- "I am Mrs. Allen. We are of an old New York family. We are very, very rich. This enter- tainment is immensely expensive and perfect in kind. I defy criticism. I expect applause." Of course this was all veiled by society's com- pletest polish; but still by a close observer it could   THE WRECK.       87 be seen, just as a skilful sculptor drapes a form but leaves its outlines perfect. Laura was the echo of her mother, modified by the element of youth. Zell fairly blazed. Between rkying jewelry, flaming cheeks, flashing eyes, and words thrown off like scintillating sparks, she suggested an exquisite July firework, burning longer than usual and sur- prising everytone. Admiration followed her like a torrent, 'and her vanity dilated without measure as attention and compliments were almost forced upon her, and yet it was frank, good-natured vanity, as naturally to be expected in her case as a throng of gaudy poppies where a handful of seed had been dropped. Zell's nature was a soil where good or bad seed would grow vigorously. Mr. Van Dam was never far off, watching with intent gloating eyes, saying in self-congratula- tion,-- "What a delicious morsel she will make," and adding his mite to the general chorus of flattery, by mild assertions like the following: "' Do you know that there is not a lady present that for a moment can compare with you?-" "How delightfully frank he is," thought Zell of her distinguished admirer, who was as open as a quicksand that can swallow up anything and leave not a trace on its placid surface. Edith was quite as beautiful as Zell, but nothing like so brilliant and pronounced. Though quiet and graceful. she was not stately like Laura. Her Y   88'     WHAT CAN SHE DO? full dark eyes were lustrous rather than sparkling and they dwelt shrewdly and comprehendingly on all that was passing, and conveyed their intelligence to a brain that was judging quite accurately of men and things at a time when so many people "Iose their head." Zell was intoxicated by the incense she re- ceived. Laura offered herself so much that she was enshrouded in a thick cloud of complacency all the time. Edith was told by the eyes and manner of those around her that she was beautiful and highly favored by wealth and position generally. But she knew this, as a matter of fact, before, and did not mean to make a fool of herself on account of it. These points thoroughly settled and quietly real- ized, she was in a condition to go out of herself and enjoy all that was going on. She was specially elated at this time also, as she had gathered from her father's words that his dan. ger was- nearly over and that before the week was out th-ey could defy Mr. Fox, look forward to Eu- rope and bright voyaging generally. Mr. Allen did not tell her his terrible fear that Mr. Fox had been a little too prompt, and that crushing disaster might still be impending. He had said to himself, "Let her and all of them make the most of this evening. It may be the last of the kind that they will enjoy." The spacious parlors filled 'rapidly. If lavish expenditure and. a large brilliant attendance could ensure their enjoyment, it was not wanting. Flowe   THE WRECK.        89 ers in fanciful baskets on the tables and in great banks on the mantels and in the fire-places, deserv- edly attracted much attention and praise, though the sum expended on their transient beauty was appalling. Their delicious fragrance mingling with perfumes of artificial origin, suggested a like inter- mingling of the more delicate, subtile, but genu- ine manifestations of character, and the graces of mind and manner borrowed for the occasion. The scene was very brilliant. There were mar- vellous toilets-dresses not beginning as promptly as they should, perhaps, but seemingly seeking to make up for this deficiency by elegance and costli- ness, having once commenced.   There was no economy in the train, if there had been in the waist. Therefore gleaming shoulders, glittering diamonds, the soft radiance of pearls, the sheen of gold, and lustrous eyes aglow with excitement, and later in the evening, with wine, gave a general phosphores- cent effect to the parlors that Mrs. Allen recognized, from long experience, as the sparkling crown of success. So  much elegance on the part of the ladies present would make the party the gem of the season, and the gentlemen in dark dress made a good black enamel setting. There was a confused rustle of silks and a hum of voices, and 'now and then a silvery laugh would ring out above these like -the trill of a bird in a breezy grove.  Later, light airy music floated through the rooms, followed by the rhythmic ca. dence of feet. A thinly clad shivering little match   90      WHA T CANr SHE DO? girl stopped on her weary tramp to her cellar and caught glimpses of the scene through the oft open- ing door and between the curtains of the windows. It seemed to her that those glancing forms were in heaven. Alas for this earthly paradise! Mr. Fox, with characteristic malice, had managed that Mr. Allen and perhaps the family should have, as his contribution to the entertainment, the sick- ening dread which the news in the afternoon papers would occasion. As the evening advanced he de- termined to accept the invitation and watch the effect. He avoided Mr. Allen, and soon gathered, that Edith and the rest knew nothing of the im- pending blow. Edith smiled graciously on himn; she felt that like the sun, she could shine on all that night. But as in his insolence, his attentions grew marked, she soon shook him off by permitting Gus Elliot to claim her for a waltz. Mr. Fox glided around, Mephistopheles-like, gloating on the sinister changes that he would soon occasion. He was to succeed even better than he dreamed. The evening went forward with music and danc- ing, discussing, disparaging, flirting and skirmishing, culminating in numbers and brilliancy as some gor- geous flower might expand; and seemingly it would have ended by the gay company's rustling depart- ure like the flower, as the varied colored petals drop away from the stem, had not an event occurred which was like a rude hand plucking the 'flower in its fullest bloom and tearing the petals away in mass   THE WRECK.        91 The magnificent supper had just been demotl ished. Champagne had foamed    without stint, cause and symbol of the increasing but transient excitement of the occasion. More potent wines and liquors, suggestive of the stronger and deeper pas- sions that were swaying the mingled throng, had done their work, and all, save the utterly blase and run down, had secured that noble elevation which it is the province of these grand social combina- tions to create. Even Mr. Allen regained his hab- itual confidence and elevation as his waistcoat ex- panded under, or rather over, those means of cheer and consolation which he had so long regarded as the best panacea for earthly ills. The oppressive sense of danger gave place to a consciousness of the warm, rosy present. Mr. Fox and the custom house seemed but the ugly phantoms of a past dream. Was he not the rich Mr. Allen, the owner of this magnificent mansion, the corner-stone of this superb entertainment? If by reason of wine he saw a little double, he only saw double homage on every side. He heard in men's tones, and saw in women's glances, that any one who could pay for his surroundings that night, was no ordinary person. His wife looked majestic as she swept through the parlors on the arm of one of his most distinguished fellow-citizens. Through the library door he could see Mr. Goulden leaning toward Laura and saying something that made even her pale face quite peony-like. Edith, exquisite as .a moss rose, was about to lead off in the German in   the large front parlor. Zell was near him, tile sparkling centre of a breezy, merry little throng that had gathered round her. It seemed that all that he loved and valued most---all that he wished, was grouped around him in the guise most attract- ive to his worldly eyes. In this moment of un- natural elation, hope whispered, "To-morrow you can sell your stock, and instead of failing, ino crease your vast fortune, and then away to new scenes, new, pleasures, free from the burden of care and fear." It was at that moment of false confi- dence and pride, when in suggestive words descrip- tive of the ancient tragedy of Belshazzar he " had drank wine and praised the gods of gold and of silver," that he had so long worshipped, and which had secured to him all that so dilates his soul with exultation, that he 'saw the handwriting, not of shadowy fingers " upon the wall," but of his partner, sent, as agreed, by a special messenger. With re- vulsion- and chill of fear he had torn open the en- velope and read,- "Fox has done his worst. We are out, for a million-All will be in the morning papers." Even his florid, wine-inflamed cheeks grew pale, and he raised his hand tremblingly to his head, and slovrly lifted his eyes like a man who dreads seeing something, but is impelled to look. The first ob- ject they rested on was the sardonic, mocking face of Mr. Fox, who, ever on the alert, had seen the messenger enter, and guessed his errand. The moment Mr. Alien saw this hated visage, a sudden   THE WR. ECK  93 fury took possession of him. He crushed the mis. sive in his clenched fist, and took a hasty stride of wrath toward his tormentor, stopped, put his-hand agailn to his head, a film came over his eyes, lhe reel- ed a second, and then fell like a stone to the floor.- The heavy thud of the fall, the clash of the chande- lier overhead, could be heard throughout the rooms above the music and hum of voices, and all were startled. Edith in the very act of leading off in the dance, stood a second like an exquisite statue of awed expectancy, and then Zell's shriek of fear and agony, "Father!" brought her to the spot, and with wild, frightened eyes, and blanched faces, the two  girls knelt above the unconscious man, while the startled guests gathered round in helpless curiosity. The usual Paralysis following sudden accident was brief on this occasion, for there were two skill- ful physicians present, one of them having long been the family attendant. Mrs. Allen and Laura, in a  half hysterical state, stood clinging to each other, supported by Mr. Goulden, as the medical gentlemen made a  slight examination and applied restoratives. After a  moment they lifted their heads and looked gtavely and significantly at each other; then the family adviser said,-- '"Mr. Allen had better be carried at once to his room, and the house become quiet." An injudicious guest, asked in a loud whisper, 'Is it apoplexy?"  Mrs. Allen caught the word, and with a stifled :'                ' i,   "     WHAT C2AN SHrE DOP cry fainted dead away, and was borne to her apart. ment in an unconscious state. Laura, who had in. herited Mrs. Allen's nervous nature, was also con. tveyed to her room, laughing and crying in turns beyond all control. Zell still knelt over her father, sobbing passionately, while Edith, with her large eyes dilated with fear, and her cheeks in wan con- trast with the sunset glow they had worn all the evening, maintained her presence of mind, and ask- ed Mr. Goulden, Mr. Van Dam, and Gus Elliot, to carry her father to his room. They, much pleased in thus being singled out as special friends of the family, officiously obeyed. Poor Mr. Allen was borne away from the pinna. cle of his imaginary triumph as if dead, Zell follow- ing, wringing her hands, and with streaming eyes: but Edith reminded you of some wild, timid crea- ture of the woods, which, though in an extremity of danger and fear, is alert and watchful, as if look- ing for some avenue of escape. Her searching eyes turned almost constantly towards the family physician, and he as persistently avqided meeting hers. } s Hi   CHAPTER VII. AMONG THE BREAKERS. AF TER another brief but fuller examination o Mr. Allen in the privacy of his own room, Dr. Mark went down to the parlors. The guests were gathered in little groups, talking in low, ex. cited whispers; those who had seen the reading of the note and Mr. Allen's strange action, gaining brief eminence by their repeated statements of what they had witnessed, and their varied sur- mises. The role of commentator, if mysterious human action be the text, is always popular, and as this explanatory class are proverbially gifted in conjecture, there were many theories of explana. tion. Some of the guests hadalready the good taste to prepate for departure, and when Dr. Mark appeared from the sick room, and said,-- D "Mr. Allen and the family will be unable to appear again this evening. I am under the pain. ful necessity of saying that this occasion, that opened so brilliantly, must now come to sad and sudden end. I will convey your adieux and ex. pressions of sympathy to the family"--there was a general move to the dressing-rooms.  The Doctor was overwhelmed for a moment with ex  96      WHAT CAN SHE DO? pressions of sympathy, that in the main were felt, and well questioned by eager and genuine curi. osity, for Fox had dropped some mysterious hnts during the evening, which had been quietly circu- lating But Dr. Mark was professionally non-com- mittal, and soon excused himself that he might attend to his patient. The house, that seemingly a moment before was ablaze with light and resounding with fashion- able revelry, suddenly became still, and grew darker and darker, as if the shadowing wings of the dreaded angel were drawing very near. In the large, elegant rooms, where so brief a time since gems and eyes vied in brightness, old Hannibal now walks alone with his silent tread, and a pecu- liarly awed and solemn visage. One by one he ex- tinguished the lights, leaving but faint glimmers here and there, that were like a few forlorn hopes struggling agairist the increasing darkness of dis- aster. Under his breath he kept repeating fer- vently, "De Lord hab mercy," and this, perhaps, was the only intelligent prayer that went up from that stricken household in this hour of sudden danger and alarm. Though we believe the Divire Father sees the dumb agony of his creatures, and pitipes them, and often when they, like the drown- ing, are grasping at stiaws of human help and cheer, puts out His strong haind and holds them up; still it is in accordance with His just law that those who seek and value His friendship find it and possess it in adversity. The height of the   AMONG THE BREAKERS.      97 storm and the middle of the angry Atlantic is 4 roor time and a poor place to provide life-boats. The Aliens had never looked to Heaven, save as a matter of form. They had a pew in a fash- iollable church, but were not very regular attend- ants, and such attendance had done scarcely any- thing to awaken or quicken their spiritual life. They came home and gossiped about the appear- ance of their "set," and perhaps criticized the music, but -one would never have dreamed from manner or conversation that they had gone to a sacred place to worship God in humility. Indeed, scarcely a thought of Him seemed to have dwelt in their minds. Religious faith had never been of any practical help, and now in their extremity it seemed utterly intangible, and in no sense to be depended on. When Mrs. Allen recovered from her swoon, and Laura had gained some self-control, they sent for- Dr. Mark, and eagerly suggested both their hope and fear. "It's only a fainting fit, doctor, is it not? Will he not soon be better?" "My dear madam, we will do all we can," said the doctor, with that professional solemnity which .is like reading a death warrant, "but it is my painful duty to tell you to prepare for the worst. Your husband has an attack of apoplexy." He had scarcely uttered the words before she was again in a swoon, and Laura also lost her tran. sient .quietness. Leaving his assistant and Mrs s   98 a     WHAT CAN SHE DOt Alen's maid to take care of them, he went back to his graver charge. Mr. Allen lay insensible on his bed, and one could hardly realize that he was a dying man. His face was as flushed and full as it often ap- peared on his return from his club. To the girls' unpracticed ears, his loud stertorous breathing only indicated heavy sleep. But neither they nor the doctor could arouse him, and at last the physician met Edith's questioning eyes, and gravely and significantly shook his head. Though she had borne up o steadily and quietly, he felt more for her than for any of the others. "O, doctor, can't you save him?" she pleaded. "You must save him," cried Zell, her eyes flashing-through her tears, "I would be ashamed, if I were a physician, to stand over a strong man, and say helplessly, ' I can do nothing.' Is this all your boasted skill amounts to? Either do some- thing at once or let us get some one who willy e "Your feelings to-night, Miss Zell," said the doctor quietly, " will excuse anything you say, how- ever wild and irrational. I am doing all--" "I am not wild or unreasonable," cried ZeIl. "I only demand that my father's life be saved.' Then starting up she threw off a shawl and stood before Doctor Mark in the dress she had worn in the evening, that seemed a sad mockery in that room of death. Her neck and arms were bare, and even the cool, experienced physician was startled by her-wonderful beauty and strange man-   AMONG THE BREAKERS.      99 ner. Her white throat was convulsed, her bosom heaved tumultuously, and on her face was the ex- pression that might have rested on the face of a maiden like herself-centuries before, when shown the rack and dungeon, and told to choose between her faith and her life. But after a moment she extended her white rounded arm toward him and said steadily,-- "I have read that if the blood of a young, vig- orous person is infused into another who is feeble and old, it will give renewed strength and health. Open a vein in my arm. Save his life if you take minle." "You are a brave, noble girl," said Doctor Mark, with much emotion, taking the extended hand and pressing it tenderly," but you are asking what is impossible in this case. Do you not re- member that I am an old friend of your father's? It grieves me to the heart that his attack is so severe that I fear all within the reach of human skill is vain." Zell, who was a creature of impulse, and often of noblest impulse, as we have seen, now reacted, into a passion of weeping, and sank helplessly on the floor. She was capable of heroic action, but she had no strength for woman's lot, which is so often that of patient endurance. Edith came and put her arms around her, and with gentle, soothing words, as if speaking to a child, half carried her to her room, where- she at last sobbed herself asleep. ,. -   100    WtHA T CAN SHE DO? For another hour Edith and the doctor watched alone, and the dying man sank rapidly. going down into the darkness of death without word or sign. "Oh, that he would speak once L iore," moaned Edith. "I fear he will not, my dear," said the doctor, pitifully. A little later Mr. Allen was motionless, like one who has been touched in unquiet sleep and be- comes still. Death had touched him, and a deeper sleep had fallen upon him. -One of the great daily bulletins will go to press in an hour. A reporter jumps into a waiting hack and is driven rapidly up town. While the city sleeps preparations must go on in the markets for breakfast, and in printing rooms for that equal necessity in our day, the latest news. Therefore all night long there are dusky figures flitting hither and thither, seeing to it that when we come down in gown and slippers, our steak and the world's gossip be ready. The breakfast of the Gothamites was furnished abundantly with '" sauce piquante " on the morn- ing of the last day of February, for Hannibal had shaken his head ominously, and wiped away a few honest tears, before he could tremulously say to the eager reporter: "Mr. Allen-hab-just-died."' Gathering what 'few particulars he could, and imagining many more, the reporter was driven   AiMONvG THE BREAKERS.     IOI back even more rapidly, full of the elation of a man who has found a good thing and means to make the most of it. Mr. Allen himself was noth- ing to him, but news about him was. And this fact crowning the story of his violation of the revenue law and prospective loss of a million, would make a brisk breeze in the paper to which he was at- tached, and-might waft him a little farther on as an enterprising news-gatherer. It certainly would be the topic of the day on all lips, and poor Mr. Allen might have plumed himself on this if he had known it, for few people, unless they commit a crime, are of sufficient im- portance to be talked of all day in large, busy New York. ' In the world's eyes Mr. Allen had commit- ted a crime. Not that they regarded his stock gambling as such. Multitudes of church members in good and regular standing were openly engaged in this. Nor could the slight and unintentional violation of the revenue law be regarded as such though so grave in its consequences. But he had faltered and died when he should not .have given way. What the world demands is success: and sometimes a devil may secure this where a true man cannot. The world regarded Mr. Van Dam and Mr. Goulden as very successful men. Mr. Fox also had secured success by one adroit wriggle--we can, describe his mode of achiev- ing greatness by no better phrase. He was des- tined to receive half a million for his treachery to his employers. During the war, when United   102    W. HA T CAN SHE DO  States securities were at their worst; when men, pledged to take them, forfeited money rather than do so, Mr. Allen had lent the Government millions, because he believed in it, loved it, and was resolved to sustain it. That same government now rewards him by putting it in the power of a dishonest clerk to ruin him, and gives him $500,00o for doing so Thus it resulted; for we are compelled to pass hastily over the events subsequent to Mr. Allen's death. His partners made a good fight, showed that there was no intention to violate the law, and that it was often difficult to comply with it liter- ally-that the sum claimed to be lost to the gov- ernment was ridiculously disproportionate with the amount confiscated   -But it was all ifn vain. There was the letter of the law, and there wele Mr. Fox and his associates in the Custom-house, "all honorable men," with hands itching to clutch the plunder. But-before this question was settled, the fate of the stock operation in Wall street was most effect- ually disposed of. As soon as Mr. Goulden heard of Mr. Allen's death, he sold all he had at a slight loss; but his action awakened suspicion, and it was speedily learned that the rise was due mainly to Mr. Allen's strong pushing, and the inevitable results followed. As poor Mr. Allen's remains were lowered into the vault, his stock in Wall street was also going down with a run. In brief, in the absence of the master's hand, and by reason of his embarrassments, there was general   AMONG THE BREAKERS.      103 wreck and ruin in his affairs; and Mrs. Allen was soon compelled to face the fact, even more awful to -her, than her husband's death, that not a penny remained of his colossal fortune, and that she had yawningly signed away all of her own means. But she could only wring her hands in view of these blighting truths, and indulge in half uttered com- plaints against her husband's " folly," as she termed it. From the first her grief had been more emo- tional than deep, and her mind recovering some, of its usual poise, had begun to be much occupied with preparations for a grand funeral, which was carried out to her taste. Then arose deeplyi in- teresting questions as to various styles of mourn- ing costume, and an exciting vista of dressmaking opened before her. She was growing into quite a serene and hopeful frame when the miserable and -blighting facts all broke upon her. When there was little of seeming necessity to do, and multi- tudes to do for her, Mrs. Allen's nerves permitted no small degree of activity. But now as it became certain that she and her daughters must do all themselves, her hands grew helpless. The idea of being poor was to her like dying. It was entering on an experience so utterly foreign and unknown that it seemed like going to another world and phase of existence, and she shrank in pitiable dread from it. Laura had all her mother's helpless shrinking from poverty, but with another and even bitterer ingredient added.  Mr. Goulden was extremely   I 04    7VHA T CAN SHE DO? polite, exquisitely sympathetic, and in terms as vague as elegantly -expressed, had offered to do anything (but nothing in particular) in his powrer to show his regard for the family, and his esteem for his departed friend. He was very sorry that business would compel him to leave town for some little time- 1   Laura had the spirit to interrupt him saying, "It matters little, sir. There are no further Wall street operations to be carried on here. Invest your time and friendship where it will pay." Mr. Goulden, who plumed himself that he would slip out of this bad matrimonial speculation with such polished skill that he would leave only flatter- ing regret and sighs behind, under the biting satire of Laura's words suddenly saw what a contempt- ible creature is the man whom selfish policy, rather than honor and principle governs. He had brains enough to comprehend himself and lose hs self- respect then and there,-as he went away tingling - with shame from the girl he wronged, but who had detected his sordid meanness. Sigh after him! She would ever despise him, and that hurt Mr. Goulden's vanity severely. He had come very near loving Laura Alien, about as near perhaps as he ever would loving any one, and it had cost him a little more to give her up than to choose between a good and a bad venture on the street. With compressed lips he had said to himself--"No gush. ing sentiment. In carrying out your purpose to be rich you must marry rich." Therefore he had gone   A MONG T'HE BREAKERS.     10o5 to make what he meant to be his final call, feeling quite heroic in his steadfastness-his loyalty to purjpose, that is himself. But as he recalled du. ring his homeward walk, her glad welcome, her wistful pleading looks, and then, as she realized the truth, her pain, contempt, and her meaning words of scorn, his miserable egotism was swept aside, and for the first time the selfish man saw the ques- tion from her standpoint, and as we have said he was not so shallow but that he saw and loathed himself. He lost his self-respect as he never- had before, and therefore to a certain extent, his power ever to be happy again. Small- men, full of petty conceit, can recover from any wounds upon their vanity, but proud and large minded men have a self-respect, even though based upon questionable foundation. It is essen- tial to them, and losing it, they are inwardly- wretched. As soldiers carry the painful scars of some wounds through life, so Mr. Goulden would find that Laura's words had left a sore place while memory lasted. Mr. Van Dam quite disarmed Edith's suspicions and prejudices by being more friendly and intimate with Zell than ever, and the latter was happy and exultant in the fact, saying, with much elation, that her friend was ( not a mercenary wretch, like Mr. Goulden, but remained just as true and kind as ever." It was evident that this attention and show of kindil ess to the warm-hearted girl, made a deep 5*   106    IWHA T CA N SHE DO?  impression and greatly increased Mr. Van Dam's power over her., But Edith's suspicion and dislike began to return as she saw more of the manner and spirit of the man. She instinctively felt that he was bad and designing. One day she quite incensed Zell, who was chanting his praises, by saying: "I haven't any faith in him. What has he done to show real friendship for us? He comes here only to amuse himself with you; Gus Elliot is the only one who has been of any help." But Edith had her misgivings about Gus also. Now, in her trouble and poverty, his weakness began to reveal itself in a fhew and repulsive light. In fact, that exquisitely fine young gentleman loved Edith well enough to marry her, but not to work for her.- That was a sacrifice that he could not make for any womah. Though out of his natural kindness and good-nature he felt very sorry for her, and wanted to help and pet her, he had been shown his danger so clearly that he was constrained and awkward when with her, for, to tell the truth, his father had taken him aside and said,-- "Look here, Gus. See to it that you don't entangle yourself with Miss Allen, now her father has failed. She couldn't support you now, and you never can support even yourself.,. If you would go to work like a man-but one has got to be a man to do that. It seems true, as. your mother says, that you are of too fine clay for cornm   AMONG TlE BREAKERS.      I07 mon uses. Therefore, don't make a fool of your. self. You can't keep up your style on a pretty face, and you must not wrong the girl by making her thifik you can take care of her. I tell you plainly, I can't bear another ounce added to my burden, and how long I'll stand up under it as it is, I can't tell." Gus listened with a sulky, injured air. He felt that his father never appreciated him as did his mother and sisters, and indeed society at large. Society to Gus was the ultra-fashionable world of which he was one of the shining lights. The ladies of the family quite restored his equanimity by saying,-- "Now see here, Gus, don't dream of throwing yourself away on Edith Allen. You can marry, any girl you please in the city. So, for heaven's sake (though what heaven had to do with their advice it is hard to say), don't let her lead you on to say what you would wish unsaid. Remember they are no more now than any other poor people, except that they are refined, etc., but this will only make poverty harder for them. Of course we are sorry for them, but in this world people have got to take care of themselves. So we must be on the lookout for some one who has money which can't be sunk in a stock operation a 'if thrown into the sea." After all this sound reason, poor, weak Gus, vaguely conscious of his helplessness; as stated by his father, and quite believing his mother's assur   108     s WHA T CAN SHE DO0 ance that ' le could marry any girl he pleased,' wAs in no mood to urge the penniless Edith to give him her empty hand, while before the party, when he believed it full, he was doing his best to bring her to this point, though in fact, she gave him little opportunity. Edith detected the change, and before very long, surmised the cause. It made the young girl curl her lip, and say, in a tone of scorn that would have done Gus good to hear,-- "The idea of a man acting in this style." But she did not care enough about him to re- ceive a wound of any depth, and with a good- natured tolerance, recognized his weakness, and his genuine liking for her, and determined to make him useful. Edith was very practical, and possessed of a brave, resolute nature. She was capable of strong feelings, but Gus Elliot was not the man to awaken such in any woman. - She liked his company, and proposed to use him in certain ways. Under her easy manner, Gus also became at ease, and finding that he was not expected to propose and be senti- mental, was all the more inclined to be friendly. "I want you to find me books, and papers also, if there are any, that tell how to raise fruit,' she said to him one day. "What a funny request! I would as soon ex- pect you would ask for instruction how to drive four-in-hand."  "Nothing of that style, henceforth. I must   /, :q ,  '    AMONG TH5E BREAKERS.     109 learn something useful flow. Only the rich can afford to be good-for-nothing. and we are not rich no w.' "For which I am very sorry," said Gus, with ;ome feeling. "Thank you. Such disinterested sympathy is eautiful," said Edith dryly. Gus looked a little red and awkward, but has- tened to say, "I will hunt up what you wish, and bring it as soon as possible." "You are very good. That is all at present ' said Edith, in a tone that made Gus feel that It was indeed all that it was in his power to do for her at that time, and he went away with a dim perception that he was scarcely more than her errand boy. It made him very uncomfortable. Though he wished her to understand he could not marry her now, he wished her to sigh a little after him. Gus' vanity rather resented that, instead of pining for him, she should set him to work with a little quiet satire. He had never read a romance that ended so queerly. He had expected that they might have a little tender scene over the in- exorable fate that parted them, give and take a memento, gasp, appeal to the moon, and see each other's faces no more, she going to the work and poverty that he could never stoop to from {the in- nate refinement and elegance of his being, and he to hunt up the heiress to whom he would give the honor of maintaining him in his true sphere. But his little melodrama was entirely spoiled ,'.   1 Q     WHA T CAN SHE DO ., by her matter-of-fact way, and what was worse still he felt in her presence as if he did not amount to much, and that she knew it; and yet, like the poor moth that singes its wings around the lamp, he could not keep away. The prominent trait of Gus' character, as of so *many others in our luxurious age of self-pleasing, was weakness; and yet one must be insane with vanity to be at ease, if he can do nothing reso- I utely, and dare nothing great. He is a cripple, and if not a fo61, knows it. During the eventful month that followed Mr. Allen's death, Mrs. Allen and her daughters led, what seemed to them, a very strange life. While in. one sense it was real and intensely painful, in another the experiences were so new, and strange, it all seemed an unreal dream, a distressing night- mare of trouble and danger, from which they might awaken to their old life. Mrs. Allen, from her large circle of acquaintances, had numerous callers, many coming from mere morbid curiosity, more from &ningled motives, and not a few from genuine tearful sympathy. To these "her friends," as she emphatically called them, she found a melancholy pleasure in recount- ing all the recent woes, in which she ever appeared as chief sufferer, and chief mourner, though her husband seemed among the minor losses, and thus most of her time was spent during the last few weeks at her old home. Her friends appeared to find a melancholy pleasure in listening to these de   AMONG THE BREAKERS.     It tails and then in recounting them again to ctkret "friends' with a running commentary of their own, until that little fraction of the feminine world ac- quainted with the'Allens, had sighed, surmised: and perhaps gossiped over the "afflicted family" so exhaustively that it was really time for some- thing new. The men and the papers down town also had their say, and perhaps all tried as far as human nature would permit, to say nothing but good of the dead and unfortunate. Laura, after the stinging pain of each successive blow to her happiness, sank into a dreary apathy, and did mechanically the few things Edith asked of her. Zell lived in varied moods and conditions, now weeping bitterly for her father, again resenting with impotent passion the change in their fortunes, but ending usually by comforting herself with the thought that Mr. Van Dam was true to her. He was as true and faithful as an insidious, incurable disease when once infused into the system. His infernal policy now was to gradually alienate her interest from her family and centre it in him. Though promising nothing in an open, manly way, he adroitly made her believe that only through him could she now- hope to reach brighter days again, and to Zell he seemed the one means of es  cape from a detested life of poverty and privation. She became more infatuated with him than ever, and ,cherished a secret resentment against Edith because of her distrusst and dislike of him.   I12    , WHA T CAN SHE DOt The Allens had but few near relatives in the city at this time, and with these they were not ono very good terms, nor were they the people to be helpful in adversity. Mr. Allen's partners were men of the world like himself, and they were also in, censed that he should have been carrying on pri- vate speculations in Wall street to the extent of risking all his capital. His fatal stock operation, together with the government confiscation, had in- volved them also in ruin; and they had enough to do to look after themselves. They were far more eager to secure something out of the general wreck than to see that anything remained for the family. The Aliens were left very much to themselves in their struggle with disaster, securing help and advice chiefly as they paid for it. Mr. Allen was accustomed to say that women were incapable of business, and yet here are the ladies of his own household compelled to grapple with the most perplexing forms of business or suffer aggravated losses. Though all of his family were of mature yea'rs, and thousands had been spent on their education, they were as helpless as  four children in dealing with the practical questions that daily came to them for decision. At first all matters were naturally referred to the widow, but she would only wring her hands and say,-     "I don't know anything about these horrid things. Can't I be left alone with my sorrow in peace a few days? Go to Edith." And to Edith at last all came till the poor girl - *  ,\ -i . I   AMONG THE BREAKERS.      11  "3 was almost distracted.- It was of no use to go to Laura for advice, for she would only say in dreary apathy,-- "Just as you think best. Anything you say." She was indulging in unrestrained wretchedness to the utmost. Luxurious despair is so much easi- er than painful perplexing action. Zell was still " the child " and entirely occupied with Mr. Van Dam. So Edith had to bear the brunt of everything. She did not do this in un- complaining sweetness, like an angel, but scolded the others soundly for leaving all to her. They whined back that they " couldn't do anything, and don't know how to do anything."  "You know as much as I do," retorted Edith And this was true. Had not Edith possessed a practical resolute nature, that preferred any kind of action to apathetic inaction and futile grieving, she would have been as helpless as the rest.. Do you say then that it was a mere matter of chance that Edith should be superior to the others, and that she deserved no credit, and they no blame? Why should such all important condi- tions of character be the mere result of chance and circumstance?  Would not christian education and principle have vastly improved the Edith that ex. isted? Would they not have made the- others helpful, self-forgetting, and sympathetic? Why -should the world be full of people so deformed, of morally feeble, or so ignorant, as to be helpless? Why should the naturally strong work with only   " e4 t   WHAT CAN SHE DO     W contemnpt and condemnation for thile weak? Whle many say, " staid aside,-I am holier than thou," perhaps more say, "stand aside, I am wiser- stronger than thou," and the weak are made more hopelessly discouraged. This helplessness, on one hand, and arrogant fault-finding strength on the '.other, are not the result of chance, but of an imperfect education. They come from the nego lect and wrong-doing of those whose province it was to train and educate. If we find among a family of children reaching maturity, one helpless from deformity, and another from feebleness, and are told that the parents, by employing surgical skill, might have removed the deformity, and overcome the weakness by tonic treatment, but had neglected to do so, we would not have much to say about chance. I know of a poor man who spent nearly all that he had in the world, to have his boy's leg straightened, and he was called a "good father." What are these phys- ical defects compared with the graver defects of character? Even though Mr. Allen is dead, we cannot say that he was a good father, though he spent so many thousands on his daughters. We certainly cannot call Mrs. Allen a gcod mother, and the proof of this is that Laura is fieeble and selfish, Zell deformed through lack of self-control, and Edith hard and pitiless in her comparative strength. They were unable to cope with the practical ques  tions of their situation. They had been launched   AMONG THE BREABIKERS.  upon the perilous uncertain voyage oflife, without the compass of a true faith, or the charts of princi- ple to guide them, and in case of disaster, they had been provided with no life-boats of knowledge to save them. They are now tossing among the breakers of misfortune, almost utterly the sport of the winds and waves of circumstances. If these girls never reached the- shore of happiness and safety, could we wonder? How would your daughter fare, my reader, if you were gone and she were poor, wjth her hands and brain to depend on for bread, and her heart culture for happiness? In spite of all your provi- dence and foresight, such may .be her situation. Such becomes the condition of many men's daugh. ters every day. But time and events swept the Aliens forward, as the shipwrecked are borne on the crest of a wave, and we must follow their fortunes. Hungry creditors, especially the petty ones up town, strip- ped them of everything they could lay their hands on, and they were soon compelled to leave their Fifth Avenue mansion. The little place in the country, given to Edith partly in jest by her father as a birthday present, was now their only refuge, and to this they prepared to go the first of April. Edith, as usual, took the lead, and was to go in advance of the others with such furniture as they had been able to keep, and prepare for their corn- ing.   Old Hannibal, who had grown grey in the service of the family, and now declined to leave it, i      was to accompany her. On a dark, lowering day,i symbolic of their fortunes, some loaded drays took down to the boat that with which they would commence the meagre housekeeping of their pov- erty. Edith went slowly down the broad steps leading from her elegant home, and before she entered the carriage turned for one lingering, tear- ful look, such as Eve may have bent upon the gate of Paradise closing behind her, then sprang into the carriage, drew the curtains, and sobbed all the way to the boat. Scarcely once before, during that long, hard month, had she so given way to her feelings. But she was alone now and none could see her tears and call heraweak. Hannibal took his seat on the box with the'-driver, and looked and felt very much as he did when following his master-to Greenwood. j     4     CHAPTER VIII.  WARPED.  IT is the early breakfast hour at a small fiamn house, situated about a mile from the staid but lthriving village of Pushton. But the indications around the house do not indicate thrift. Quite the reverse. As the-neighbors expressed it, there was a screw loose with Lacey," the owner of this place. It was going down hill like its master. A general air of neglect and growing dilapidation im- pressed the most casual observer. The front gate hung on one hinge; boards were off the shackly barn, and the house had grown dingy'and weather- stained from lack of paint. But as you entered and passed from the province of the master to that of the mistress, a new element was apparent, strug- gling with, but unable to overcome, the predomi. nant tendency to unthrift and seediness. But everything that Mrs. Lacey controlled was as neat and cleanly as the poor overworked woman could keep it.  At the time  our story becomes interested in her fortunes, Mrs..Lacey was a middle-aged woman, but appeared Older than her years warranted from the long-continued strain of incessant toil, and from that which wears much faster still, the depres   I 18    If'HA T CAN SHE DO?) sion of anl unhappy, ill-mated life. Her face wore the pathetic expression of confirmed discourage. ment. She reminded you of soldiers fighting when they know it is of no use, and that defeat will be the only result, but who fight on mechanically, ili ; obedience to orders. She is now placing a very plain but wholesome and well-prepared breakfast on the table, and it would seem that both the eating and cooking were carried on in the same large and general living room. Her daughter, a rosy-cheeked, half-grown girl of fourteen, was assisting her, and both mother and daughter seemed in a nervous state of expect- ancy, as if hoping and fearing the result of a near event. A moment's glance showed that this event related to a lad of about seventeen, who was walk- ing about the room, vainly trying to control the agitation which is natural even to the cool and ex- perienced when feeling that they-are at one of the crisis periods of life. It could not be expected of Arden Lacey at his age to be cool and experienced while light curling hair, blue eyes, and a mobile sensitive mouth, ex- pressed anything but a stolid self poise, or cheerful endurance. Any one ccustomed to observe char- acter could see that hewas possessed of a nervous fine-fibred nature capable of noble achievement under right influences, but also easily warped and susceptible to sad injury under brutal wrong. He was like those delicate and somewhat complicated musical instruments that produce the sweetedt   ,         ,RPEz harmonies when in tune and w playe d un, bu the Mbst jagl  '       lae m^ to hr dail  discord vv t buto  but the most angling disords when unstrung and in rougl ignorant hands. He h ad inheritedhisnv ou tperament, higs tendency to irritationa d excess, fi'om the diseased over-stimulated system of his thr) who was faost becoming a con"firmed inebn ate, and w"o had been poisoning himself with bad liquors all his life. Fromhis     th ba what blance e hadmother he obtained neat balance h had in temperament, but owed more to her daily infuence and trainlng. It was the nestruggle ofthe poor Woman's life to shield her children from th e evil consequences of their father's life. For her son she had special anxiety, knowing his sensitive high-strung nature, and his tendency to go headlong into evil if his self-respect and conc trol were o          -epc    n  o. once lost. His passionate love for her had been the boys best trait, and through this she  had controlled him tus far. But s ge had thougist tlat it m-ig ht be best for him to be i' h fathers presence and influence if she c ou onl lind soeti            could only fidsmethingthat accorded with his bent. And this eventualy proved to be a college education The boy was of a  quick and stud -ous :e duaton earliest years he had been fond of booksm time advanced, the passion for study and readins grew  upon hi ,Heha gre upn hM.   He had a strong imagination, and his favorite styles of reading Were such as appealed to this,."'ingWee     schas poealced t     t  hs In the scenes of history and 'omance he escaped from the sordid life of toil and ha  me to which his father condemned him,intoa seemed rich and g/or/fled in con; Orilike in co:   120     WHA T CAN SHE DO0 thast, When he was but fourteen the thought ol' - a liberal education fired his ambition and became the dream of his life. He madethe very most of the district school to which he was sent in winter. The teacher happened to bie a well educated man, 'and thok pride in his apt, eager scholar. Between  the boy's' and the mother's savings they had ob- tained enough to secure private lessons in Latin and Greek, and now at the age of seventeen, he was tolerably well prepared for collge. But the father had no sympathy at all with these tastes, and from the- incessant labor he re- quired of his son, and the constant interruptions 'he occasioned in his studies even in winter, he had been a perpetual bar to all progress. On the day previous to the scene described in the opening of this chapter, the winter term had closed, and Mr. Rule, the teacher, had declared th- t Arden could enter college, and with natural pride in his own work as instructor, intimated that he would lead his class if he did. Both mother and son were so elated at this that they determined at once to state the fact to 'the father, thinking that if he had any of the natu- ral feelings of a parent, he would take some pride irn his boy, and be willing to help him obtain the education he longed for. But there is little to be hoped from a man who -is completely under the influence of ignorance and rum. Mr. Lacey was the son of a small farmer - lik himself, and never had anything to recommend   him but his fine looks, which had captivated poor Mrs. Lacey to her cost. Unfike the majority of his class, who are fast becoming a very intelligent part of the community, and are glad to educate their children, he boasted that he- liked the "old ways?' and by these he meant the worsts ways of his father's day, when-books and schools were scarce, and few newspapers found their way to rural homes. He was, like his father before him, a graduate of the village tavern, and had imbibed bad liquor and his- , ideas of life at the same time from that objection- able source. With the narrow-mindedness of his class, he had  a prejudice against all learning-  that went beyond the three R's, and had watched with growing disapprobation his son's taste for books, believing that it would spoil him as a' farm hand, and make him an idle dreamer. He bas less and less inclined to work himself as his frame be- - came diseased and enfeebled from intemperance, and he determined now to get as much work as possi, ble out of that "great hulk of a boy," as he called Arden. He had picked up some hints of the col. lege hopes, and the very thought angered him. He determined that when the boy broached the sub- ject he would give him such a "jawing" (to use his own vernacular) , as would putan end to that non- ' "- sense.' Therefore both Arden and his mother, who were waiting as we have described in'such pe'r- : - turbed anxious state for his entrance, were doomed . tobitterdisappointment. At lastaheavy red-faced -. ..- man entered the kitchen, stalking in on the-white    122     WHAT CAN SHE DO0 floor out of the drizzling rain with his muddy boots leaving tracks and blotches in keeping with his character. But he had the grace to wash his grimy hands before sitting down to the table. He was always in a bad humor in the morning, and the chilly rain had not improved it. A glance around showed him that something was on hand, and he surmised that it was the college business. Heat once thought within himself, "I'll squelch the thing now, once for all." Turning to. his son, he said, "Look here, young- ster, why haint you been out doing your chores? D'ye expect me to do your work and mine too?" - Father," said the impulsive boy with a voice of trembling eagerness, " if you will let me go to college next fall, I'll do my work and yours too. I'll work night and day--' "What cussed nonsense is this?" demanded the man harshy, clashing down his knife and fork and turning frowningly toward his son. "No, but father, listen to me before you refuse. Mr. Rule says I'm fit-to enter college and that I can lead my class too. I've been studying for this three years.' I've set my heart upon it," and in his earnestness, tears gathered in his-eyes. "The more fool you, and old Rule is another,' was the coarse answer. The boy's eyes flashed angrily, but the mother here spoke, "You ought to be proud of your son, John; if you were a true father you would be. If you'd en-   WA4RPED. 123 courage and help him now, he'd make a nan "Shut up! little you know about it. He'd make one of your snivelling white fingered loafers that's too proud to get a living by hard work. Per haps you'd like to make a parson out of him. Now look here old woman, and you too, my young cock I've suspicioned that something of this kind was up, but 1 tell you once for all it won't go. Just as this hulk of a boy is gettin of some use to me, you want to spoil him by sending him  to college. I'you see him hanged first," and the man turned to his breakfast as if he had settled it. But he was start led by his son's exclaiming passionately "I will go. "Look a here, what do you mean " said the father, rising with a black ugly look. "I mean I've set my heart ongoing to college e and will go. You and all the world shan't hinder mye. I won't stay here and be a farm drudge all The man's face was livid with anger, and in a low-hissing tone he said,- "I g  uess you want taking down a peg my col. lege gentleman. Perhaps you don't know Im master till you're twenty one," and lie reached down a large leather strap. "You strike me if you dare,"  shouted the boy.  "If I dare! haw ! haw If I don't cut thec Sed nonsense out of yer this morning, then I never *-   1 i24    WHAT CAN SHE DOi did," and he took an angry stride toward his son who sprang behind the stove. The wife and mother had stood by growing whiter and whiter, and with lips pressed closely to- gether. At this critical moment she stepped be. fore her infuriated husband and seized his arm, exclaiming,- "John, take care. You have reached the end." "Stand aside," snarled the man, raising the strap, " or I'll give you a taste of it, too." The woman's grasp tightened on his arm, and in a voice that made him pause and look fixedly at her, she said,- ( If you strike me or that boy I'll take my chil- dren and we will leave your roof this hateful day never to' return." "Haint I to be master in my own house?" said the husband sullenly. "You are not to be a brute in your own house. I know you've struck me before, but I endured it and said nothing about it because you were drunk, but you are not drunk now, and if you lay a finger on me or my son to-day, I will never darken your doors again." The unnatural father saw that he had gone too far. He had not expected such an issue. He had long been accustomed to follow the lead of his brutal passions, but had now reached a point where he felt he must stop, as his wife said. Turn. ing on his heel, he sullenly took his place at the table muttering,--   W WARPED. "It s a pretty pass when there s mutiny in a man's oan house." Then to his Son,  "yu  -aon't get a d--n cent out of me for ourolln U bonut ness, mind that." Rose, the daugohter, who had been crying and wringing her hands on the doorstep, n  c a -imdly in, and at a sign from her mother, she and h other went into another room. The man ate for a while in dogged silence, but conciat last in a tone that was meant to be somewhat conciliatory,     se aid,-h "What the devil did you mean by putting the boy up to such foolshmean by puttiness "Hush " said his wife imperiously, , , I'm in no mood to talk with you now." h Oh, ah, indeed, a man can'eis own house, eh? I guess I'll take myself off to where I can have a little' more liberty," and he went out, harnessed his old white horse, and start. ed for his favorite groggery in the village. caeHis father had no sooner gone than Arden came outand saiid '3ssionately, 'ave o  use, mothder, I can't stand it; I must leave home to-day; I guess I can make a living, at any rate I'd rather starve than pas livth such scenes." fass through The pr, overwrought 'Woman thiew herself t ben 0a low chair and sobbed) rio 'e elf back and forth; .edcking herself Waittill I die, Ardent wait till I die, Ifeel i won't be long. What have I to live for but you   126     WHA T CAN SHE DO? and Rosy? And if you, my pride, and joy, go away after what has happened, it will be worse than death," and a tempest of grief shook her gaunt frame. Arden was deeply -moved. Boylike he had been thinking only of himself, but now as never before he realized her hard lot, and in' his warm impulsive heart there came a yearning tenderness for her such as he had never felt before. He took her in his arms and kissed and comforted her, till even her sore heart felt the healing balm of love and ceased its bitter aching. At last she dried her eyes with a faint smile, and said,-- "With such a boy to pet me, the world isn't all flint and thorns yet."' * And Rosy came and kissed her too, for she was  an affectionate child, though a little inclined to be giddy and vain. "Don't worry, mother," said Arden. "I will stay and take such good care of you, that you will have many years yet, and happier ones, too, I hope," and he resolved to keep this promise, cost what it might. "I hardly think I ought to ask it of you, though even the thought of your going away breaks my heart." "I will stay," said the boy, almost as passion- ately as he had said, "I will go." "I now see how much you need a protector." That night the father came home so stupidly drnnk that they had to half carry him to bed   W^RPED. where he slept heavily till morning, and rose con- siderably shaken and depressed from his debauch. ] lHe breakfast was as silent as it had been stormy on the previous day. After it was over, Arden fol. lowed his father to the door and said,- "I was a boy yesterday morning, but you madey me a man, and a rather ugly one too. I learnedc then for the first time, that you occasionally strike my mother. Don't you ever do it again, or it will be worse for you, drunk or sober. I am not going to college, but will stay home and take care of her. Do we understand each other?" The man was in such a low shattered condition that his son's bearing cowed him, and he wa-lked off muttering,-- 'tYoung cocks crow  mighty loud," but from that time forward he never offered violence to his wife or children. Still his father's conduct and character had a most disastrous effect upon the young man. He was soured, because disappointed in his most cher- ished purpose, at an age when most youths scarce- ly have definite plans. Many have a strong natu- ral bent, and if turned aside from this, they are more or less unhappy, and their duties instead of being wings to help life forward, become a galling This was the case of Arden. Farm wor;k, as he had learned it from his father, was coarse, heavy drudgery, with small and uncertain returns, and these were largely spent at the village rum shops.    28     WHA T CAN: SHE DO t in purchasing slow perdition for the husband, and misery and shame for his wife and children. In respectable Pushton, a drunkard's family, es- pecially if poor, had a very low social status. Mrs. Lacey and her children would not accept of bad as- sociations, so they had scarcely any. This ostra- cism, within certain limits is perhaps right. The preventive penalties of vice can scarcely be too great, and men and women must be made to feel that wrong doing is certain to be followed by terrible consequences. The fire is merciful in that it always burns, and sin and suffering are inseparably linked. But the consequences of one person's sin so often blight the innocent. The necessity of this from our various ties, should be a motive, a hostage against sinning, and doubtless restrains many a one who would go headlong under evil impulses. But multitudes do slip off the paths of virtue, and help- less wives, and often helpless husbands and children, writhe from wounds made by those under sacred obligations to shield them. Upon the families of . criminals, society visits a mildew of coldness and scorn that blights nearly all chance of good fruit But, society is very unjust in its discriminations, and some of the most heinous sins in God's sight are treated as mere eccentricities, or condemned in tihe poor, but winked at in the rich. Gentlemen will admit to their parlors, men about whom they know facts, which if true of a woman, would close every respectable door against her, and God frowns on the Christian (?) society that makes such arbi,  . vi   WARPED. 129 trary and unjust distinctions. Cast both out, till they bring forth fruits meet for repentance. But we hope for little of a reformative tendency from the selfish society of the world. Changing hu- man fashion rules it, rather than the eternal truth of the God of love The saddest feature of all, is that the shifting code of fashion is coming more and more to govern the church. Doctrine may re- main the same, profession and intellectual belief the same, while practical action drifts far astray. There are multitudes of wealthy churches, that will no more admit associations with that class among- which our Lord lived and worked, than will select society. They seem designed to help only .respectable, well-connected sinners, toward heaven. 'This tendency has two phases. In- the cities the poor are practically excluded from worshipping with the rich, and missions are established for them as if they were heathen. I have no objection to costly magnificent churches. Nothing is too good to be the expression of our honor and love of Gd,' But they should be like the cathedrals of Europe, whllere prince and peasant may bow together on the same level they have in the Divine presence. Christ made no distinction between the rich and poor regarding their spiritual value and need, nor should the Christianity named after him. To- the degree that it does, it is not Christianity. The meek and lowly Nazarene is not its inspiration. Perhaps the personage he told to get behind him when 6 :* -      . ' '*, . * , ".,   130     WHA T CAN- SHE DO I promising the "kingdoms of the world and the glory of them," hihs more to do with it. The second phase of this tendency as seen in the country, is kindred but unlike. Poverty may not be so great a bar, but moral delinquencies are more severely visited, and the family under a cloud, through the wrong-doing of one or more of its members, is treated very much as if they had a perpetual pestilence. The highly respectable keep aloof. Too often the quiet country church is not a sanctuary and place of refuge for those wounded, either by their own or another's sin, a place where the grasp of sympathy and words of encourage- ment are given; but rather a place where they meet the cold critical gaze of those who are hedged about with virtues and good connections. I hope I am wrong, but how is it where you live, my reader? If a well-to-do thriving man of integ- rity takes a fine place in your community, we all know how church people will treat him. And what they do is all right. But society-the world, will do the same. Is christianity-are the followers of the ' Friend of publicans and sinners," to do no more?           - If in contrast a drunken wretch like Lacey with his wife and children come in town on top of a wagon-load of shattered furniture, and all are dumped down in a back alley to scramble into the shelter of a tenement house as best they can, do you call upon them? Do you invite them to your pew? Do you ever urge and encourage them into   .    f    I     WARPED         131 51ur church and make even one of its corners home* like and inviting? I hope so; but alas, that was not the general custom in Pushton, and poor Mrs. Lacey had ac- quired the habit of staying at home, her neighbors had formed the habit of calling her husband a "dreadful man," and the family " very irreligious,.' and as the years passed they seemed to be more 'and more left to themselves. Mr. Lacey had brought his wife from a distant town where he had met and married her. She was a timid, retiring woman, and time and kindness were needed to draw her out. But no one had seemingly thought it worth xWhile, and at the time our story takes an interest in their affairs, there was a growing isola.. tion. All this had a very bad effect upon Arden. As he grew out of the democracy of boyhood he met a certain social coldness and distance which he 'learned to understand only too early, and soon re- turned this treatment with increased coldness and aversion. Had it not been for the influence of his mother and the books he read, he would have in. evitably fallen into low company. But he had -promised his mother to shun it. He saw its result in his father's conduct, and as he read, and his mind natured, the narrow coarseness of such company became repugnant. From time to time he was  4 sorely tempted to leave home which his father made hateful in many respects, and try his fortunes among strangers who would not associate him with 9       132     WHA T CAN SHE. DO? a sot; but his love for his mother kept him at her side, for he saw thgt her life was bound up ill him, and that he alone could protect her and his sister and keep some sort of a shelter for them. In his unselfish devotion to them his character was noble In his harsh cynicism toward the world and espe- cially the church people, for whom he made no al- lowance whatever-in his utter hatred and detesta- tion of his father, it was faulty, though allowance must be made for him. He was also peculiar in other respects, for his unguided reading was of a nature that fed his imagination at the expense of his reasoning faculties. Though he drudged in a narrow round, and his life was as hard and real as poverty and his father's intemperance could make it, he mentally lived and found his solace in a world as large and unreal as an uncurbed fancy could cre- ate. Therefore his work was hurried through me- chanically in the old slovenly methods to which he had been educated, he caring little for the results, his father squandering these; and when the neces- sary toil was over, he would lose all sense of the sordid present in the pages of some-book obtaened from the village library. As he drove his milk cart to and from town he would sit in the chill drizzling rain, utterly oblivious of discomfort, with -a half s mile upon his lips, as he pictured to himself some scene of-sunny aspect or gloomy castellated granm deur of which his own imagination was the archi. tect. The famous in history, the heroes and hero. ines of fictjon, and especially the characters of *      * v  *     r   s  t  8   WARPED. Shakspeare were more familiar to him than the people among whom he lived. From the latter he stood more and more aloof, while with the former he held constant intercourse. He had little in common even with his sister, who was of a very dif- ferent temperament. But his tenderness toward his mother never failed, and she loved him with the passionate intensity of a nature to which love was all, but which had found little to satisfy it on earth, and was ignorant of the love of God. And so the years dragged on to Arden, and his twenty-first birthday made him free from his fath- er's control as he practically long had been, but it also found him bound more strongly than ever by his mother's love and need to his old home life. ' . ,   "HAPTER IX. A DESERT ISLAND. THE good cry that Edith indulged in on her way to the boat was a relief to her heart wlich had long been overburdened. But the necessity of controlling her feelings, and the natural buoy- ancy of youth enabled her by the time they reach ed the wharf to see that the furniture and baggage were properly taken care of. No one could detect the traces of grief through her thick veil, or guess from her firm, quiet tones, that she felt somewhat as Columbus might when going in search of a new world. And yet Edith had a hope and expects- tion from her country life which the others did not share at all. When she was quite a child her feeble health induced her father to let her spend an entire sum- mer ih a farm house of the better class, whose owner had some taste for flowers and fruit. Thesers she had enjoyed and luxuriated in as much as any butterfly of the season, and as she romped with the farmer's children, roamed the fields and woods after berries, and tumbled in the fragrant hay, health came tingling back with a fullness and vigor that had never been lost. With all her subsequent eljoyment, that s lmmer still dwelt in her memory etiioyment^ 1*7   A DESERT ISLAND.    3 as the halcyon period of her life, and it was with the country she associated it. Every year she had longed for July, for then her father would break away from business for a couple of months and take them to a place of resort. But the fashion- able watering places were not at all to her taste as compared with that old farm-house, and whenever it was possible she would wander off and make ' disreputable acquaintances," as Mrs. Allen term- ed them, among the farmers and laborers' families in the vicinity of the hotel. But by this means she often obtained a basket of fruit or bunch of flowers that the others were glad to share in. In accordance with her practical nature she asked questions as to the habits, growth and cul- ture of trees and fruits, so that few city girls situ- ated as she had been, knew as much about the pro- ducts of the garden. She had also haunted con servatories and green-houses as much as her sisters had the costly Broadway temples of fashion, where counters are the altars to which the women of the city bring their daily offerings; and as we have seen, a fruit store was a place of delight to her. The thought that she could now raise fruit, flowers, and vegetables on her own place without limit, was some compensation even for the trouble they had passed through and the change inl their fortunes. Moreover she knew that because of their pov. erty she would have to secure frorn her ground substantial returns, and that her garcnirti- sist *' - *' -   136 -    WHA T CAfN SHE DO  be no amateur trifling, but earnest work. There fore having found a seat in the saloon of the boat, she drew out of her leather bag one of her garden. books, and some agricultural papers, and com- menced studying over for the twentieth time the labors proper for April. After reading a while, she leaned back and closed her eyes and tried to form such crude plans as were possible in her inexperience and lack of knowledge of a place that- she had not even seen. Opening her eyes suddenly she saw old Hanni. bal sitting near and regarding her wistfully. "You are a foolish old fellow to stay -with us," she said to him. \ u You could have obtained plenty of nice places in the city. What made you do it?" "Is'e couldn't gib any good reason to de world, Miss Edie, but de one I hab kinder satisfies my ole black heart." "Your heart isn't black, Hannibal." "How you know dat? A" he asked quickly. "Because I've seen it often and often. Some- times I think it is whiter than mine. I now and then feel so desperate and wicked, that I am afraiid of myself." "t'There now, you'se worried and worn out and you thinks dat's being wicked." -' No, I'm satisfied it is something worse than that. I wonder if Gpd does care about people who are in trouble, I mean practically, so as to help them any?.' ' Well, I specs he does," said Hannibal vaguely.   A DESERT ISLAND.      i3 ' But den dere's so many in trouble dat I m afeard some hab to kinder look arter thesselves." Then -as if a bright thought struck him, he added, "I specs he sorter lumps 'em jes as Massa Allen did when he said he was sorry for de people burned up in Chicago. He sent 'em a big lot ob money and den seemed to forget all about 'em." Hannibal had never given much attention to religion, and perhaps was not the best authority that Edith could have consulted. But his conclu- sion seemed to secure her consent, for she leaned back wearily and again closed her eyes saying,- ( Yes, we are mere human atoms, lost sight of in the multitude."  Soon her deep regular breathing showed that she was asleep, and Hannibal muttered softly,-- "Bress de child, dat will do her a heap more good dan asking dem  deep questions," and he watched beside her like a large faithful Newfound- land dog. 'At last he touched her elbow aid said, "We get off at de next landing, and I guess we mus be pretty nigh dare." Edith started up much refreshed and asked, "What sort of an evening is it?" "Well, I'se sorry to say it's rainin' hard and betry dark."    To her dismay she also found that it was nearly nine o'clock. The boat had been late in starting, and was so heavily laden as to make slow progress.- against wind and tide. Edith's heart sanik within' ,.  *.'   338    WHfA T CAN SHE DOP ' her at-the thought of landing alone in a strange place that- dismal night. It was indeed new ex- perience to her. But she donned her waterproof, and the moment the boat touched the wharf, hur- ried ashore, and stood under her small umbrella, while her household gods were being hustled out into the drenching rain. She knew the injury that must result to them unless they could speedily be carried into the boat-house near. At first there seemed no one to do this save Hannibal, Mwho at once set- to work, but she soon observed a man with a lantern gathering up some butter-tubs that the boat was landing, and she immediately appealed to him for help. "I'm not the dock-master," was the gruff reply. C"You are a mall, are you not, and one that will not turn away from a-lady in distress. If my things stand long in this rain they will be greatly injured." The man thus adjured turned his lantern on the speaker, and while we recognize the features of our acquaintance, Arden Lacey, he sees a face on that old dock that quite startles him. If Edith had dropped down with the rain, she could not have been more unexpected, and with her large dark eyes flashing suddenly on him, and her appealing yet half indignant voice breaking in upon the waking dream, with which he was beguiling the outward misery of the night, it seemed as if one of the-characters of his fancy had suddenly become real. He who would have passed Edith in surly unnoting' indifference on the open street in the         t   A DESERT ISLAND.      139 garish light of day, now took the keenest interest in her. He had actually been appealed, to, as an ancient knight might have been, by a damsel in distress, and he turned and helped her with a will, which, backed by his powerful strength, soon placed her goods under shelter. The lagging dock-master politicly kept out of the way till the work was almost done and then, bustled up and made some show of assisting in time for any fees, if they were offered, but Arden told him that since he had kept out of sight so long, he might remain invisible," which was the unpopular way the young man had. When the last article had been placed under shelter Edith said,- "I appreciate your help exceedingly. 'How much am I to pay you for your trouble?" "Nothing," was the rather curt reply. The appearance of a lady like Edith, with a beauty that seemed weird and strange as he caught glimpses of her face by the fitful rays of his lantern, had made a sudden and strong impression on his morbid fancy and fitted the wild imaginings with -which he had occupied the, dreary hour of waiting for the boat. The presence of her sable attendant i had increased these impressions. But when she took out her purse to pay him his illusions van- ished. Therefore the abrupt tone in which he said 1' Nothing," and which was mainly caused by vexation with the matter of fact world that con. tinually mocked his unreal one. "I don't quite understand you, 'said Edith /    .    .   40 o    ,WHAT CAN SHE Do t "I had no intention of employing your time and strength without remuneration."  "I told you I was not the /dock-master," said Arden rather coldly. "He'll take hll the fees you will give him. You appealed to me as a man, and said you were in distress. I helped you as a man. 'Good evening." "Stay," said Edith hastily. "You seem not only a man, but a gentleman, and I am tempted, in view of my situation, to trespass still further on your kindness," but she hesitated a moment. It perhaps had never been intimated to Arden before that he was a gentleman, certainly never in the tone with which Edith spoke, and his fanciful chivatric nature responded at once to the touch uf that chord.- With the accent of voice he ever used toward his mother, he said,-- "I am at your service." "We are strangers here," continued Edith. I Is there any place near the landing where we can get safe comfortable lodging?" "I am sorry to say there is not. The village is a mile away." "t How can we get there?" "Isn't the stage down?" asked Arden of the dock-master. "No!" was the gruff response. "The-night is so bad I suppose they didn't come. I would take you myself in a minute if I had a suitable wagon." "Necessity knows no choice," said Edith o   A DESERT ISLAND.     14- quickly. "I will go'\ with you in any kind of s wagon, and I surely hope you won't leave me on this lonely dock in the rain;" "Certainly not," said Arden, reddening int the darkness that he could be thought capable of such an act. "But I thought I could drive to the vil- lage and send a carriage for you." "I would rather go with you now, if you will Ict me," said Edith decidedly. "The best I have is at your service, but I fear . you will be sorry for your choice. I've only a board for a seat, and my wagon has no springs Ferhaps I could get a low box for you to sit on." * "' Hannibal can sit on the box. With your per mission I will sit with you,- for I wish to ask you some questions," Arden hung his lantern on a hook in front of his wagon, and helped or partly lifted Edith over the wheel to the seat, which was simply a board resting on the sides of the box. He turned a butter-tub upside down for Hannibal, and then they jogged out from behind the boat-house where he had sheltered his horses. This was all a new experience to Arden. He had, from his surly misanthropy, little familiarity with society of any kind, and since as a boy, he had romped with the girls at school, he had been almost a total stranger to all women save those in his own home. Most young men would have been t wkward louts under the circumstances. But this was -not true of Arden, for he had daily been   "2     WHA T CAN SHE DO? holding converse in the books he dreamed over with women of finer clay than he could have found at Pushton. He uould have been excessively awkward in a drawing-room or any place of con. ventional resort, or rather he would have been sullen and beari. but the place and manner in which he had met Edith, accorded with his roman tic fancy, and the darkness shielded his rough ex- terior from observation. Moreover, the presence of this flesh, and blood L6a woman at his side gave him different sensations from the stately dames, or even -the most piquant maidens that had smiled upon him in the shadowy scenes of his imagination; and when at times, as the wagon jolted heavily, she grasped his arm for a second to steady herself, it seemed as if the dusky little figure at his side was a sort of human electric battery charged with that subtle fluid which some believedthe material life of the uni- verse. Every now and then as they bounced over a stone, the lantern would bob up and throw a ray on a face like those that had looked out upon him from the plays of Shakspeare wthose scenes are laid in Italy. Tlhus the dark, chilly, rainy night, was becom- ing the most luminous period of his life. Reason and judgment act -slowly, but imagination takes fire. But to poor Edith, all was real and dismal enough, and she often sighed heavily. To Arden each sigh was an appeal for sympathy. He- had   l DESERT ISLAND.      143 driven as rapidly as he dared in the darkness to get her out of the rain, but at last she said clinging to his arm,- "Won't you drive slowly, the jolting has given me a pain in my side." He was conscious of a new and peculiar sensa- tion there also, though not from jolting. He had been used to that in many ways all his life, but, thereafter they jogged forward on a walk through the drizzling rain, and Edith, recovering her breath, and a sense of security, began to ask the  questions. "Do you know where the cottage is that was formerly owned by Mr. Jenks?" "Oh yes, it's not far from our house-between our house and the village." Then as if a sudden thought struck him he added quickly, 'I heard it was sold, are you the owner?" "Yes," said Edith a little coolly, she had ex- pected to question and not be questioned. And yet she was very glad she had met one who knew about her place. But she resolved to be non-com. mittal till she knew more about him. "What sort of a house is it?" she asked aftet a moment. '"I have never seen it." "Well, it's not very large and I fear it is some. what out of repair--at least it looks so, and I should think a new roof was needed." Edith could not help saying pathetically, "Oh, dear, I'm so sorry." Arden then added hastily.  "But it's a kind of   1 44 -   Wt:'HAT CAN SHE DO0 a pretty place too-a great many fruit trees and grape vines on it." "So I've been told," said Edith. "And that will be its chief attraction to me." "Then you are going to live there?" "Yes." Arden's heart gave a sudden throb. Then he would see this mysterious stranger often. But he smiled half bitterly in the darkness as he queried, ,' What will she appear like in the daylight?" Her nlext question broke the spell he was under utterly. They were passing through the village and the little hotel was near, and she naturally asked,- "To whom am I indebted for all this kindness? I am glad to know so much as that you are my neighbor." Suddenly and painfully conscious of his out- ward life and surroundings, he answered briefly,- "My name is Arden Lacey. We have a small farm a little beyond your cottage." Wondering at his change of tone and- manner, Edith still ventured to ask,- ( And do you know of any one who could bring my furniture and things up to-morrow?" ' As he sometimes did that kind of work, an impulse to see more of her impelled him to say,- "I suppose I can do it. I work for a living." ( I am sure that is nothing against you," said Edith kindly. "You will not live long in Pushton before learn- -'   A DESERT ISLAND.     t45 Ing that there is something against us," was the bitter reply. "But that need not prevent my working for you, as I do for others. If you wish, I will make a fire in your house early, to take off the chill and dampness, and then go for your furni- ture. The people here will send you out in a car- riage." "I will be greatly obliged if you will do so and let me pay you." "Oh certainly, I will charge the usual rates.' "Well, then, how much for to-night?" said Edith as she stood in the hotel door. "To-night is -another affair," and he jumped into his wagon and rattled away in the darkness, his lantern looking like a "'will-o'-the-wisp'" that might vanish altogether. The landlord- receivedi Edith and her attendant with a gruff civility, and gave her in charge of his wife, who was a bustling red-faced woman with a sort of motherly kindness about her. "Why you poor child," she said to Edith, turning her round before the light, " you're half drowned. You must have something hot right away, or you'll take your death o' colds" and with something of her husband's faith in whiskey, she soon brought Edith a hot punch that for a few moments seemed to make the girl's head spin, but as it was fol- lowed by strong tea and toast, she felt none theli worse, and danger from the chill and wet was effectually disposed of. As she sat sipping her tea before a red-l ho 7   "6     WHA T CAN SHE DO t stove, she told, in answer to the landlady's ques tions, how she had got up from the boat. "Who is this Lacey, and what is there against them?" she asked suddenly. The hostess went across the hall, opened the bar-room door, and beckoned Edith to follow her. In a chair by the stove sat a miserable bloated wreck of a man, drivelling and mumbling in a dmnken lethargy. "That's his father," said the woman in a whis- per, "When he gets as bad as that he comes here because he knows my husband is the only one as won't turn him out of doors." An expression of intense disgust flitted across Edith's face, and by the necessary law of associa- tion, poor Arden sank in her estimation, through the foulness of his father's vice. "Is there anything against the son?" asked Edith in some alarm. ." I've engaged him to bring up my furniture and trunks. I hope he's honest." "4 Oh, yes, he's honest enough, and he'd be mighty mad if any body questioned that, but he's kind o' soured and ugly, and don't notice nobody nor nothing. The son and Mrs. Lacey keep to them. selves, the man does as you see, but the daughter, who's a smart pretty girl, tries to rise above it all, and make her way among the rest-of the girls; but she has a hard time of it, I guess, poor child.' "I don't wonder," said Edith, "with such a father." But between the punch and fatigue, she was   A DESER T ISLAND      147 glad to take refuge from the landlady's garrulous. nes;, and all her troubles, in quiet sleep. Tlme next morning the storm was passing away in broken masses of clouds, through which the sun occasionally shone in April-like uncertainty. After an early breakfast she and Hannibal were -driven in an open wagon to what was to be her fu. ture home-the scene of unknown joys and sorrows. The most memorable places, where the mighti- est events of the world have transpired, can never have for us the interest of that humble spot, where the little drama of our own life, will pass from act to act till our exit. Most eagerly did Edith note everything as re- vealed by the broad light of day. The village, though irregular, had a general air of thriftiness and respectability. The street, through which she was riding, gradually fringed off from stores and offices, into neat homes, farm-houses, and here and there the abodes of the poor, till at last three- quarters of a mile out, she saw a rather quaint lit- tle cottage with a roof steeply sloping and a long low porch. ' That's your place, Miss," said the driver. Edith's intent eyes took in the general effect with something of the practiced rapidity with- which she mastered a lady's toilet on the Avenue. In spite of her predisposition to be pleased, the prospect was depressing. ' The season was late and patches of discolored snow lay here and there, and were piled up along thefences. The garden and   ".8     WHA T CAN SHE DOP trees had a neglected look. The vines that clam- bered up the porch had been untrimmed of the last year's growth, and sprawled in every direction. The gate hung from one hinge, and many pal. ings were off the fence, and all had a sodden, dingy appearance from the recent rains. The house it- 'self looked so dilapidated and small in contrast with their stately mansion on Fifth Avenue, that irrepressible tears came into her eyes, as she mur- mured,- "It will kill mother just to see it." Old Hannibal said in a low, encouraging tone, "It'll look a heap better next June, Miss Edie." But Edith dropped her veil to hide her feelings, and shook her head. They got down before the shackly gate, took out the basket of provisions which Hannibal had secured, paid the driver, who splashed away through the mud as a boat might that had landed and left two people on a desert island. They walked up the oozy path with hearts about as chill and empty as the unfurnished cottage before them. But utter repulsiveness had been taken away by a bright fire that Arden had kindled on the hearth of the largest room; and when lighting it he had been so romantic as to dream of the possi- bility of kindling a more sacred fire in a heart that lhe knew now to be as cold to him as the chilly room in which he shivered. Poor Arden! If he could have- seen the exa pression on Edith's face the night previous, as she   A DESERT ISLAND.      49 looked on his besotted father, he would have cursed what he termed the blight of his life, more bitterly than ever. -    CHAPTER X. EDITH BECOMES A "DIVINITY. A S the wrecked would hasten up the strand and explore eagerly in various directions in order to gain some idea of the nature and resources of the place where they might spend months and even years. so Edith hurriedly passed from one room to another, looking the house over first, as their place of refuge and centre of life, and then / went out to a spot from whence she could obtain a view of the garden, the little orchard, and pasture field. The house gavetthem three rooms on the first floor, as many on the second, and a very small attic. There was also a pretty good cellar, though it looked to Edith a black dismal ho0e, full of rub- bish and old boxes. The entrance of the house was at the com- mencement of the porch, which ran along under the windows of the large front room. Back of this was one much smaller, and doora opened from both the apartments named into a long and rather nar- row room running the full depth of the house, and which had been desigfed as the kitchen. With the families that would naturally occupy a house of this character, it would- have been the general   - DITH BECOMES A ' DIVINITY.'  ISi living room. To Edith's eyes, accustomed to mag' nificert spaces and lofty ceilings, they seemed stifling dingy cells. The walls were broken in places and discolored by smoke, and with the ex- ception of the large room there were no places for open fires, but-only holes for stovepipes. "How can such a place as this ever look home- like?" The muddy garden, with its patches of snow, its forlorn and neglected air; its spreading vines and thickly standing stalks of last year's weeds, was even less inviting.- Edith had never seen the country in winter, and the gardens of her experi- ence were full of green, beautiful life. The orchard not only looked gaunt and bare, but very untidy, The previous year had been most abundant in fruit, and the trees were left to bear at will. Therefore many of the limbs were wholly or partly broken off, and lay scattered where they fell, or still hung by a little of the woody fibre and bark. Edith came back to the fire from the survey of her future home, not only chilled in bJody by the raw April winds, but more chilled in heart. Though she had not expected summer greenness and a sweet inviting home, yet, the reality was so dreary and forbidding from its necessary contrast with the past,-that she sank down on the floor, and buried her head in her lap in an uncontrollable passion of grief. Hannibal was out gathering wood to replenish the fire, and it was a luxury to be alone a few minutes with her sorrow. '    . -   352     WIA T CAN SfE DOf  But soon she had the consciousness that she was not alone, and looking up, saw Arden in the door, with a grave troubled face. Hastily turning from him, and wiping away her tears, she said rather coldly: "You should have knocked. The house is my home, if it is empty." His face changed instantly to its usual hard sullen aspect, and he said briefly; "I did knock."           , "The landlady has told her all about us," he thought, "and she rejects symypathy and fellow- ship from such as we are' -  But Edith's feeling had only been annoyance that a stranger had seen her emotion, so she said quickly, "I beg your pardon. We have had trouble, but I don't give way in this manner often. Have you brought a load?" "Yes. If your servant will help me I will bring the things in." As -he and Hannibal carried in heavy rolls of carpet and other articles, Edith removed as far as possible the traces of her grief, and soon began to scan by the light of day with some curiosity-her acquaintance of the previous evening. He was the very opposite- to herself in appearance. Her eyes were large and dark. He had -a rather small but piercing blue eye. -His locks were light and curly, and his beard sandy. Her hair was brown -and straight. He,was full six feet, while she was only of medium height. And yet Edith wa not a 7'   EDITS BECOMES A 'DIVINITY.  brunette, but possessed a complexion of transpa. rent delicacy which gave her the fragile appearance characteristic of so many American girls. His face was much tanned by exposure to March winds, but his. brow was as white as hers. In his morbid tendency to shun every one, he usually kept his eyes fixed on the ground so as to appear not to see people, and this, with his habitual frown, gave a rather heavy and repelling expres- sion to his face. - '"He would make a very good representative of the laboring classes," she thought, " if he hadn't so disagreeable an expression." It had only dimly dawned upon poor Edith as yet, that she now  belonged to the "laboring But her energetic nature soon reacted against idle grieving, and her pale cheeks grew rosy, and her face full of eager life as she assisted and directed. If If only -had one or two women to help me we could soon get things settled," she said, "and I have so little time before the rest come." Then she added suddenly to Arden, "Haven't you sisters?" X A  ' My sister does not go out to service," said Arden proudly. "Neither do I," said the shrewd Edith," but I would be willing to help any one in such an emer- gency as-I am  in," and ghe glanced keenly to see the effect of this speech, while she, thought, ' What airs these people put on ' 7*   154     WHA T CAN SHE DO? Arden's face changed instantly. Het words seemed like a ray of sunlight falling on a place before shadowed, for the sullen frowning expres- sion passed into one almost of gentleness, as he said,- "That puts things in a different light. I am sure Rose and mother both will be willing to help you as neighbors," and he started after another load, going around by theway of his home and readily obtaining from his mother and sister a promise to assist Edith after dinner. Edith smiled to herself and said, "I have found the key to his surly nature already." She had, and to many other natures also. Kindness and, human fellowship will unbar and unbolt where all other forces may clamor-in vain. Arden went away in a maze of new sensations. This one woman of all the world beside his mother and sister that he had come to know somewhat, was to him a strange beautiful mystery. Edith was in many respects conventional, as all society girls are, but it was the conventionality of a sphere of life that Arden knew only through books, and she seemed to him utterly different from the ladies of Pushton as he understood them from his slight acquaintance. This difference was all in her favor, for he cherished a bitter and unreasonable pre- judice against the young girls of his neighborhood as vain shallow creatures who never read, and thought of nothing save dress and beaux. His own sister in fact had helped to confirm these impressions,   'DIrT SECOIES A - DIrIITr y  , 155 fo; While he was fond of her and kind, he had no great admiration for her, saying in his sweeping cynicism, "She is like the rest of them." If he hiad met Edith only in the street and in conven- tional ways, stylishy dressed, he would scarcely have noticed her. But her half indignant, half pa- thetic appeal to him on the dock, the lonely ride in which she had clung to his arm for safety her tears, and the manner in which she had last spoken to him, had all combined thoroughly to pierce his shell of sullen reserve; and, as we have said, his vivid imagination had taken fire. Edith and Hannibal worked hard the rest of the forenoon, and her experienced old attendant was invaluabie. Edith herself, though having little practical knowledge of work of any kind, had vigor and natural judgment, and her small white hands accomplished more than one would suppose. So Arden wonderingly thought on his return with a second load, as he saw her lift and handle. things that'he knew to be heavy.. Her short close, fitting working-dress outlined her fine figure to ad. vantage, and with complexion bright and dazzling With exercise, she seemed to him some frail fairy. like creature doomed by a cruel fate to unsuited toil and sorrows. ButEdith was very matter of fact, and had never in all her life thought of herself as a fairy. Arden went home to dinner, and by one o'clock Edith said to Hannibal,- "There iv one good thing about the place if no   56     WHAT CAN SHE DO" other. It gives one a savage appetite. What have you got in the basket?" "A scrumptious lunch, Miss Edie. I told de landlady you'se used to having things mighty nice, and den I found a hen's nest in de barn dis mornin." "I hope you didn't take the eggs, Hannibal," said Edith slyly. ( Sartin I did, Miss, Edie, cause if I didn't de rats would."  "Perhaps the landlady would also if you had shown them to her." "Miss Edie," said Hannibal solemnly, ' finding a hen's nest is like finding a gold mine. Ithelongs to de one dat finds it." "I'm afraid that wouldn't stand in law. Sup- pose we were arrested for robbing hen's nests. That wouldn't be a good introduction to our new neighbors." "Now, Miss Edie," said Hannibal, with an in- jured air, "you don't spec I do a job like dat so bungly as to get cotched at it?" "Oh, very well," said Edith, laughing, "since you have conformed to the morality of the age, it must oe all right, and a fresh egg would be a rich treat now that it can be eaten with a clear con- science. But Hannibal, I wish you would find a gold mine out in the garden." "I guess you'se find dat with all your readin about strawherries and other yarbs." "I hope so," said Edith with a sigh, " for 1 , i   EDITH BECOMES A "DIVINITY."  S7 don't see how we are going to live here year aftel year."     ,' "You'se be rich again. De men wid de long pusses aint acoin' to look at your black eyes for nothin',:' and Hannibal chuckled knowingly. The color faintly deepened in Edith's cheeks, but she -said with some scorn, "Meri with long purses swant girls with the same. But who are these?" ' I  Coming up the. patIt they saw a tall middle-aged xwoman, and by lhi side, a young girl of abot , eighteen who was a marked contrast in appearance. '"Dey's his mother and sister. You will drive tings- dis arternoon." Mrs. Lacey and her daughter entered with some little hesitancy and embarrassment, but Edith, with the poise of an accomplished lady, at once put them at ease by saying,- "It is exceedingly kind of you to come and help, and I appreciate it very much." i' No one should refuse to be neighborly," said Mrs. Lacey quietly. "And to tell the truth I was delighted to come,". said Rose, " the winter has been so long and dull-" "Oh dear," thought Edith, "if you find them so, what will be, our fate?" Mrs. Lacey undid a bundle and took out a tea. pot from which the steam yet oozed faintly, and Rose undid another containing some warm buttered biscuits, Mrs. Lacey saying, ' I thought your lunch  might seem a little cold and cheerless, so I brought these along."   158    - WHAT CAN SHE DO? 'Now that is kind," said Edith, so cordially that their faces flushed with that natural pleasure which we all feel when our little efforts for others are appreciated. To them it was intensified, for Edith was a grand city lady, and the inroads that she made on the biscuits and the zest with which she sipped her tea showed that her words had the ring of truth. "Do sit down and eat, while things are nice and warm," she said to Hannibal. "There's no use of our putting on airs now," but Hannibal insisted on waiting upon her as when butler in the great dining room on the Avenue, and when she was through, carried the things off to the empty kitch- en, and took his " bite" on a packifig box, prefa- cing it as his nearest approach to grace by an in- dignant grunt anhd profession of his faith. "Dis ole niggah eat before her? Not much  She's quality now as much as eber." -But the world and Hannibal were at variance on account of a sum of subtraction which had taken away from Edith's name the dollar symbol. Edith set to work, with her helpers now in- creased to three, with renewed zest, and from time to time stole glances at the mother and daughter to see what the natives were like. , They were very different in appearance:' the mother looking prematurely old, and she also seemed bent and stooping under the heavy bur- dens of life. -Her dark blue eyes had a weary pathetic look, as if some sorrow was ever before 5   EDITH BE COMES A  DIVINITVY." 159 them.  Her cheek bones were prominent and cheeks sunken, and the thin hair, brushed plainly under her cap, was streaked with grey. Her quiet. ness and reserve seemed more the result of a crushed, sad heart than from natural lack of feel i ng. The daughter was in the freshest bloom of youth, and was not unlike the flower she was named after, when, as a dewy bud, it begins to de- velop under the morning sun.  Though not a beautiful girl, there was a prettiness, a rural breezi- ness about her, that would cause any one to look twice as she passed. The wind ever seemed to be in her light flaxen curls, and her full rounded ngure suggested superabundant vitality, an im- pression increased by her quick, restless motions. Her complexion reminded you of strawherries and cream, and her blue eyes had a slightly bold and defiant expression. She felt the blight of her father's course also, but it acted differently on her temperament. Instead of timidly shrinking from the world like her mother, or sullenly ignoring it like her brother, she was for going into society and compelling it to recognize and respect her. "I have done nothing wrong," she said; "( I insist on people treating me in view of what I am myself;" and in the sanguine spirit of youth she hoped to carry her point. Therefore her manner was a   little self-asserting, which would not have been the case had she not felt that she had preju- dice to overcome. Unlike her brother, she cared ':  4      .  ;   i60     WI.4 T CAN SHE Dot little for bools, and had no ideal world, but lived vividly in her immediate surroundings. The older she grew, the duller and more monotonous did her home life seem. She had little sympathy from her brother; her mother was a sad, silent woman, and her father a daily source of trouble and shame. Her education was very imperfect, and she had no resource in this, while her daily work seemed a tiresome round that brought little return. Her mother attended to the more important duties and gave to her the lighter tasks, which left her con- siderable leisure. She had no work that stimu- lated her, no training that made her thorough in any department of labor, however humble. From a friend, a dressmaker in the village she obtained a little fancy work and sewing, and the proceeds re- sulting, and all her brother gave her, she spent in dress. The sums were small enough in all truth, and yet with the marvellous ingenuity that some girls, fond of dress, acquire, she made a very little go a great way, and she would often appear in toil- ets that were quite effective. With those of her own age and sex in her narrow little circle, she was not a special favorite, Otut she was with the young men, for she was bright, chatty, and had the knack of putting awkward fellows at ease. She kept her little parlor as pretty and inviting as her limited- materials permitted, and with a growing imperiousness gave the rest of the family, and es- pecially her father, to understand that this parlor was her domain, and that she would permit no in-   EDIITH BECOMES A "DI ViNITY."  I6 trusion. Clerks from the village and farmers' sons would occasionally drop in of an evening, though they preferred taking her out to ride where they could see her away from her home; But the more respectable young men, with anxious mothers and sisters were rather shy of poor Rose, and none seemed to care to go beyond a mild flirtation with a girl whose father was on a " rampage," as they expressed it, most of the time. On one occasion,  when she had two young friends spending the evening, her father came home reckless and wild with drink, and his language toward the young men was so shocking, and his manner in general so outrageous, that they were glad to get away. If Arden had not come home and collared his father, carrying him off to his room by his almost irresistible strength, Rose's parlor might have be- come a sad wreck, literally as well as socially. As it was it seemed deserted for a long time, and she felt very bitter about it. In her fearless frankness, her determination not to succumb to her sinister surroundings,(and perhaps from the lack of a sensi- tive delicacy,)she reproached the same young men when she met them for staying away, saying, "It's a shame to treat a girl as if she were to blame for what she can't help." But Rose's ambition had put on a phase against which circumstances were too strong, and she was made to feel in her- struggle to gain a social foot, ing that her father's leprosy had tainted her, and her brother's " ugly, sullen disposition," as it was   162     WHAT CAN SHE DO? termed, sas a hindrance also. She had an increas ing desire to get away among strangers, where she could make her own way on her own merits, and the city of New York seemed to her a great Eldo- rado, where she might find her true career. Some very showily dressed, knowing-looking girls, that she had met at a picnic, had increased this longing for the city. Her mother and brother thought her restless, vain, and giddy, but she was as good and honest a girl at heart as breathed, only her x vigorous nature chafed at repression, wanted out- lets, and could not settle down for life to cook, wash and sew for a drunken father, a taciturn, brother, or even a mother whose companionship was depressing, much as she was loved. Rose welcomed the request of her brother, as helping Edith would cause a ripple in the current Qf her dull life, and give her a chance of seeing one of the grand city ladies, without the dimness and vagueness of distance, and she scanned Edith with a stronger curiosity than was bestowed upon her- self. .The result was rather depressing to poor RosA, for, having studied with her quick nice eye, Edith's exquisite manner and movements, she sigh. ed to herself,-- -"I'm not such a lady- as this girl, and perhaps never can be.' While Edith was very kind and. cordial to the Laceys, she felt, and made them feel, that there was a vast social distancei between them. Even practical Edith had not yet realized her poverty,   EDITH BECOMES A "DIVINITY."   163 and it would take her some time to doff the man. ner of the condescending lady. They accomplished a great deal that afternoon, but it takes much time and labor to make even a small empty house look home-like. Edith had taken the smallest room up stairs, and by evening it was quite in order for her occulpation, she meaning to take Zell in with her. -Work had progressed in the largest upper room, which she designed for her mother and Laura. Mrs. Lacey and Hannibal were in the kitchen getting that arranged, they very rightly concluding that this was the main spring in the mechanism of material living, and should be put in readiness at once. Arden had -been instructed to purchase and bring from the village a cooking stove, and Hannibal's face shone with something'like delight, as by five o'clock :he had a wood fire crackling underneath a pot of water, feeling that the terra firma of comfort was at last reached. He could now soak in his favorite beverages of tea, and make Miss Edie quite " pert- like ' too when she was tired. Mrs. Lacey worked silently. Rose was inclined to be chatty and draw Edith out in regard to city life. She responded good naturedly as long as Rose confined herself to generalities, but was inclined to be reticent on their own affairs. Before dark the Laceys prepared to return,the mother saying gravely,- "You may feel it too lonely to stay by yourself. Our house is not very inviting, and my husband's   104     WHA T CAN SHE DO? manner is not always what I could wish, but such as it is, yoi will be welcome in it till the rest of your family comes." "You are very kind to a stranger," said Edith, heartily, i but I am not a bit- afraid to stay here since I have Hannibal as protector,1' and Hannibal, elated by this compliment, looked as if he might be a very dragon to all intruders. "Moreover," con- tinued Edith, "you have helped me so splendidly that I shall be very comfortable and they will be- here to-morrow night.' 'Mrs. Lacey bowed silently, but Rose said in her sprightly voice, from the doorway: "I'll come and help you all day to-morrow." Arden was still to bring one more load. The setting sun, with the consistency of an April day, had passed into a dark cloud which soon came driving on with wind and rain, and the thick drops dashed against the windows as if thrown from a vast syringe, while the gutter gurgled and groaned with the sudden rush of water. "Oh dear, how dismal!" sighed Edith looking out in the gathering darkntess. Then she saw that the loaded wagon had just stopped at the gate, and in dim outline, Arden sat in the storm as if he had been a post. "It's too bad," she said impatiently, "my things will all get wet." After a moment she added: "Why don't he come in? Don't he know enough to come in out of the rain?" . "Well, Miss Edie, he's kind o' quar," said Hannibal, " l'se jes done satisfied he's quar." ' .   EDITH BECOMES A "DIVINITY."   165 But the shower ceased suddenly, and Arden dismounted, secured his horses, and soon appeared at the door with a piece of furniture. "Why it's not wet," said Edith with surprise. "I saw appearances of rain, and so borrowed a piece of canvas at the dock." "But you didn't put the canvas over yourself," said Edith, looking at his dripping form, grateful enough now to bestow a little kindness without the idea of policy. "As soon as you have brought in the load I insist on your staying and taking a cup of tea." He gave his shoulders an indifferent shrug say- ing, "a little cold water is the least of my troub- les." Then he added, stealing a timid glance at her, " but you are very kind. People seldom think of their teamsters. " "The more Shame to them then," said Edith. "I at least can feel a kindness if I can't make much return. It was very good of you to protect my furniture and I appreciate your care. Besides your mother and sister have been helping me all the afternoon, and I am, oppressed by my obliga- tions to you all."          . "I am sorry you feel that way," he said briefly, and vanished in the darkness after another load. Soon all- was safely housed, and he said, about to depart, "There is one more load; I will bring that to-morrow." From the fire she called, ' Stay, your tea will be ready in a moment."   i66     WHA T CAN SHE DO 9 "Do not put yourself to that trouble," he answered, at the same time longing to stay. "i Mother will have supper ready forme." He was t  0so diffident that he needed much encouragement, and moreover, he was morbidly sensitive. But as she turned, she caught his wistful glance, and thought to herself, 1"Poor fellow, he's cold and hungry." With feminine shrewdness she said, "Now Mr. Lacey, I shall feel slighted if you don't take a cup of my tea, for see, I have made it my- self. It's the one thing about housekeeping that I understand. Your mother brought me a nice cup at noon, and I enjoyed it very much. I am going to pay that debt now to you." "Well--if you really wish it"-said Arden hesitatingly, with another of his bright looks, and color even deeper than the ruddy firelight war- ranted.  "My conscience!" thought Edith, ' how sud- denly his face changes. He is-'quar' as Hannibal says." But she settled matters by saying, "I shall feel hurt if you don't. You must let there be at least some show of kindness on my part, as well as yours and your friends." There came in again a delicate touch of that human fellowship which he had never found in the world, and had seemingly repelled, but which his soul was thirsting-for with an intensity never so realized before, and this, faintest semblance of human companionship and sympathy, seemed in- expressibly sweet to his sore and lonely heart,   EDITH BECOMES A "DIVINIT Y."  167 He took the cup from her as if it had been a sacrament, and was about to drink it standing, but she placed a chair at the table and said,-- t' No, sir, you must sit down there in comfort by the fire." He did so as if in a dream. The whole scene^. was taking a powerful hold on his imagination. :"Hannibal,"' she cried, raising her voice in a soft, birdlike call, and from the dim kitchen whence certain spluttering sounds had preceded him, Han- nibal appeared with a heaping plate of buttered to ast. "\ With your permission," she said, "I will sit down and take a cup of tea with you, in a neigh- borly way, for I wish to ask you some more ques- tions, and tea, you know, is a great incentive to talk," and she took a chair on the opposite side of the table, while Hannibal stood a little in the back ground to wait on them with all the formality of olden time. The wood fire blazed and crackled, and threw its flickering light over Edith's fair face, and inten- sified her beauty, as her features gleamed out, or faded, as the flames rose and fell. Hannibal stood motionless behind her chair as if he might have been an Ethiopian slave attendant on a young sul- tana. To Arden's aroused imagination, it seemed like one of the scenes of his fancy, and he was almost alfraid to move or speak, lest all should van- ish, and he find himself plodding along the dark muddy road.   -I68  -  WHAT CAN SHE DO? "What is the matter?" she asked curiously. "Wlly ddn't you drink your tea?" ' "It all seems as strange and beautiful as a fairy tale," he said in a low torie, looking at her earn- estly. Her hearty laugh and matter-of-fact tone dis- pelled his illusion, as she said,- "It's all dreadfully real to me. I feel as if I had done more work to-day than in all my life before, and we have only made a beginning. - I want to ask you about the place and the garden, and how to get things done," and she plied him well with the most practical questions. Sometimes he answered a little incoherently for through them all he saw a face full of strange weird beauty, as the firelight flickered upon it, and gave a star-like lustre to the large dark eyes. Hannibal in the background, grinned and chuckled to himself, as he saw Arden's dazed won. dering admiration, saying to himself, "Der ain't used to such young ladies as mine, up here-it kind o' dazzles 'em." At last as if breaking away from the influence of a spell, Arden suddenly rose, turning upon Edith one of those warm bright looks, that he sometimes gave his mother, and said, "You have been very kind, good-night," and was gone in a moment. But the night was luminous about him. Along the muddy road, in the old shackly barn as he cares for his- horses, in his poor little room at home, to which he soon retired, he saw only the fair face of   EDITH BECOMES AX . DIVINITY."  169 Edith, with the firelight playing upon it, with the vividness of one looking directly upon an exquisite cabinet picture, and before that picture his heart was inclined to bow, in the most devoted homage. Edith's only comment was, "He is ' quar"Han- nibal, as you said." Wearied with the long day's work, she soon found welcome and dreamless rest. 8   CHAPTER XI. MRS. ATTEN'S POLICY, T RUE to her promise, Rose helped Edith all the next day, and while she worked, the frank- hearted girl poured out the story of her troubles, and Edith came to have a greater respect and sym. pathy for her " kind and humble neighbors " as she c haracterized them in her own mind. Still with her familiarity with the farming class, kept up since her summer in the country as a child, she made a broad distinction between them and the mere laborer. Moreover the practical girl wished to conciliate the Laceys and every one else she could, for she had a presentiment that there were many trials before them, and that they would need friends. She said in answer to Rose,-- "I never realized before that the world was so full of trouble. We have seen plenty of late." "One can. bear any kind of trouble better than a daily shame," said Rose bitterly. For some unexplained reason Edith thoughtf of Zell and Mr. Van Dam with a sudden pang. Arden brought his last load and watched eager- ly for her appearance, fearing that there might be some great falling off in the vision of the past evening.   MRS. ALLEArS POLICY.     171 But to his eyes the girl he was learning to glo. riby, presented as fair an exterior in the garish day, and the reality of her beauty became a fixed fact in his consciousness, and his fancy had already be- gun to endow her with angelic qualities. With. all her vanity, even sorrowful Edith would have laughed heartily at his ideal of her. It was one of the hardest ordeals of his life to take the money she paid him, and she saw and wondered at his repugnance. "' You will never get rich," she said, " if you are so prodigal in work, and spare in your charges." "I would rather not take anything," he said dubiously holding the money, as if it were a coal of fire, between his thumb and finger. "Then I must find some one who will do busi- ness on business principles," she said coldly. "If the fellow has any sentimental nonsense about him, I'll soon cure that," she thought. Arden colored, thrust his money carelessly into his pocket as if it were of no account, and said briefly, 1"Good morning." But when alone he put the money in the inner- most part of his pockethook, and when his father asked him for some of it, he sternly answered,- "No sir, not acent." Nor did he spend it himself; why he kept it, -could scarcely have been explained. He was simply acting according to the impulses of a morbid romantic nature that had been suddenly and deeply impressed. The mother's quick eye detected a change in him and she asked,--   f'/ T72     WHAT CA N SIZE DOt "What do you think of our new neighbor?" "Mother," said he fervently, " she is an angel. "My poor boy," said she anxiously, " take care. Don't let your fancy run away with you." 'Oh," said he with assumed indifference, " one can have a decided opinion of agood thing as well as a bad thing, without making a fool of oneself.?' But the mother saw with a half jealous pang that her son's heart was awaking to a new and -stronger love than her own. Mrs. Allen with Zell and Laura were to come by the boat that evening, and Edith's heart yearned after them as her kindred. Now that she had had a little experience of loneliness and isolation, she deeply regretted her former harshness and impa- tience, saying to herself, "It is -harder for them than for me. They don't like the country, and don't care anything about a garden," and she pur- posed to be very gentle and long suffering. /f If good resolutions were only accomplished cer- !tainties as soon as made, how differerit life would be!] Arden had ordered a close carriage that she might go down and meet them, and had agreed to bring up their trunks and boxes in his large wagon. The boat fortunately landed under the clear starlight on this occasion, and feeble Mrs. Allen was soon seated comfortably in the carriage. But her every breath was a sigh, and she regarded the martyrs as a favored class in comparison with her. self. Laura still had her look of dreary apathy; but Zell's face wore an expression of interest in the    MRS. ALLEN'S POLICY.    173 new scenes and experiences, and she plied Edith with many questions as she rode homeward. Mrs. Allen brought a servant up with her who was con- demned to ride with Arden, much to their mutual disgust. "Oh dear,' sighed Edith as they rode along. v ' It's a dreadful come down for us all and I don't know how you are going to stand it, mother." Mrs. Allen's answer was a long unspeakable sigh. When she reached the house and entered the room where supper was awaiting them, she glanced around as a prisoner might on being thrust into a cell in which years must be spent, and then she dropped into a chair sobbing. "How different-how different from all my past!" and for a few moments they all cried to- gether. As with Edith at first, so now again the new home was baptized with tears as if dedicated to sorrow and trouble. Edith then led them up stairs to take off their things, and Mrs. Allen had a fresh outhurst of sorrow as she recognized the contrast between this' bare little chamber and her luxurious sleeping apartment and dressing-room in the city. Laura soon regained her air of weary indifference, but Zell, hastily throwing off her wraps, came down to explore, and question Hannibal. "Bress you, chile, it does my eyes good to see you all, ony you'se inusn't take on as if we'se all dyin' with slow 'sumption." Zell put her hand on the black's shoulder and           '-         174     WHA T CAN SHE DO looked up into his face with a wondeIfully gentle and grateful expression, saying, "You are as good as gold, Hannibal. I am so glad you stayed with us, for you seem like one of the best bits of our old home. Never mind, I'll have a grander house again soon and you shall have a stiffer necktie and higher collar than ever." "Bress- you," said Hannibal with moist eyes, "it does my ole black heart good to hear you. But Miss Zell, I say,"' he added in a loud whisper, "when is it gwine to be?" "Oh!" said poor Zell, asked for definiteness, "Some day," and she passed into the large room where Arden was just setting down a trunk. "Don't leave' it there in the middle of the floor," she said sharply.} "Take it up stairs." Arden suddenly straightened himself as if he had received a slight cut from a whip, and turned "his sullen face full on Zell, and it seemed very repulsive to the imperious' little lady. 4"Don't you hear me?" she asked sharply. " Perhaps it would be well for 'you not to ask favors of your neighbors in that tone," he replied curtly. Edith, coming down, saw the situation and said with oil in her voice, U You' must excuse my sis. ter, Mr. Lacey. She does not know who you are. Hannibal will assist with the trunks if you will be so kind as to take them up stairs." "She is different from the rest," thought Arden, readily complying with her request.   MRS ALLEYS POLICY.      i75 But Zell said as she turned away, loud enough for him to hear: "What airs these common coun try people do put on!"Zell might have loaded Arden's wagon with gold, and he would not have lifted a finger for her after that. If he had known that Edith's kindness had been half policy, his face would have been more sullen and forbidding than ever. But she dwelt glorified and apart in his consciousness, and if she could only maintain that ideal supremacy, he would be her slave.: But in his morbid sensitiveness she would have to be very ' careful. The practical girl at this time did not dream of his fanciful imagining about her, but she was bent on securing friends and helpers, however humble might be their station, and she had shrewd- ly and quickly learned how to -manage Arden. The next day was spent -by the family in get- ting settled in their narrow quarters, and a dreary time they had of it. It was a long rainy day, and the roof leaked badly, and every element of dis. comfort seemed let loose upon them. Her mother had a nervous headache, and one of her worst touches of dyspepsia, and Zell and Laura were so weary and out of sorts that little could be accomplished. Between the tears and sighs within, and the dripping rain without, Edith looked back on the first two days when the Laceys were helping her, as bright in contrast. But Mrs. Allen was already worrying over the Laceys' con- nection with their settlement in the neighborhood. "We shall be associated with these low people,"   y76     WHAT CANV SHE DO? said she to Edith querulously. "i Yourfirst acquaints ances in a new place, are of great importance." Edith was- not ready for any-such association, and she felt that there was force in her mother's words. She had thought of the Laceys chiefly in the light of their usefulness. She was glad when the long miserable day came to a close, and welcomed the bright sunniness of the following morning, hoping it would dispel some. of the gloom thaat seemed gathering round them more thickly than ever. After discussing a rather meagre breakfast, for Hannibal's materials were running low, Edith push- ed back her chair, and said,-- "I move we hold a council of war, and look the situation in the face. We are here, and we've got to live here. Now what shall we do? I suppose we must go to work at something that will bring in money." "Go to work, and for money!p' said Mrs. Al- len sharply from her cushioned arm-chair. "I hope we haven't ceased to be ladies.' "But, mother, we can't live forever on the ti- tle. The ' butchers, bakers, and candlestick-mak- ers, won't supply us long on that ground. What did the lawyer, who settled father's estate, say be- fore you left?" "Well, replied Mrs. Allen vaguely, he said he had placed to our credit in - Bank, what there was left, and he gave me a check-book and talked econ- omy as men always do. Your poor father, afte!     MRS. ALLEN S POLICY.     1" losing hundreds at the club, would talk economy the next morning, in the most edifying way. He also said that there was some of that hateful stock remaining that ruined your father, but that it was of uncertain value, and he could not tell how much it would realize, but he would sell it and place the proceeds also to our credit. It will amount to con siderable, I think, and it may rise." "Now girls," continued Mrs. Allen, settling her. self back among the cushions, and resting the fore- finger of her right hand impressively on the palm of the left, " this is the proper line of policy for us to pursue. I hope in all these strange changes, I am still mistress of my own family. You certainly don't think that I expect to stay in this miserable hovel all my life. If you two girls, Laura and Edith, had made the matches you might, we would still be living on the Avenue. But I certainly can- not permit you now to spoil every chance of get. ting out of this slough. You- may not be able to- do as well as you could have done, but if you are once called working girls, what can you do? In the first place we must go into the best society of this town. Our position warrants it of course. Therefore, for heaven's sake don't let it get abroad that we are-associating with these drunken' La ceys." (Mrs. Allen in her rapid generalization might give the impression that the entire family were habitually " on the rampage," and Edith re- membered with misgivings that she had drunk tea with Arden Lacey on that very spot.) "More,   178     WHA T CAN SHE DO9 over," continued Mrs. Allen, " there is a large sum. mer hotel near here and ' my friends' have prom. ised to come and see me this summer. We must try to present an air of pretty rural elegance, and your young gentlemen friends from the city will soon be dropping in. Then Gus Elliot and Mr Van Dam continue very kind and cordial, I am sure. Zell, though so young, may soon become engaged to Mr. Van Dam, and it's said, he is very rich-" a I can't get up much -faith in these two men,'" interrupted Edith, " and as for Gus, he can't sup- port himself." "I hope you don't put Gus Elliot and my friend on the same level," said Zell'indignantly. "I don't know where to put 'your friend,' " said Edith curtly. "Why don't he speak out? Why don't he do something open, manly, and de- cided? It seems as if he can see nothing and think of nothing but your pretty face. If he would become engaged to you and frankly take the place of lover and brother, he might be of the greatest help' to us. But what has he done since father's death but pet and flatter you like an infatuated old--" "Hush!" cried Zell, blazintg withf anger and starting up, " no one shall speak so of him. What more has Gus Elliot done?" "He has been useful as my errand boy,"' said Edith contemptuously, " and that's all he amounts to as far as I'm concerned. I am disgusted with men. Who in all our trouble has been noble and knightly toward us?--"    MKS. ALLEAS. POLICY.    1709 ' Be still, children, stop your quarreling,' broke in Mrs. Allen. "You have got to take the world as you find it. Men of our day don't act like knights any more than they dress like them. The point I wish you to understand is that we must keep every hold we have on our old life and society. Next winter some of my friends will invite you to visit them in the city and then who knows what may happen"'- and she nodded significantly. Then she added, with a regretful sigh, ," What chances you girls, have had. There's Cheatem, Argent, Livingston, Pamby, and last and best, Goulden, who might have been secured if Laura had been more prompt, and a host of others. Edith had better have taken Mr. Fox even, than have had all this happen." An expression of disgust came- out on Edith's face, and she said, "It seems to me that I would rather go to work than take any of them." "You don't know anything about work," said Mrs. Allen. "It's a great deal easier to marry a fortune than to make one, and a woman can't make a fortune. Marrying well is the only chance you girls have now, and it's my only chance to live again as a lady ought, and I want to see to it that nothing is done to spoil these chances." Laura listened with a dull assent, conscious that she would marry any man now who would give her an establishment and enable her to sweep past Mr. Goulden in elegant scorn. Zell listened, purposing to marry Mr. Van Dam though Edith's            *    80     WHAT CA N SHE DO0 words raised a vague uneasiness in her mind, and she longed to see him again, meaning to make him more definite. Edith listened with a cooling ad- herenice to this familiar faith and doctrine of the world in which the mother had brought up her children. She had a glimmering perception that the course indicated was not sound in general, nor best for them in particular. "And now," continued Mrs. Allen, becoming more definite, " we must have a new roof put on the house right away, or we will all be drowrned out, and the house must be painted, a door-bell put in, and fences and things generally put in order. We must fit this room up as a parlor, and we can use the little room there as a dining, and sitting room. Laura and I will take the chamber over the kitchen, and the one over this can be kept as a spare room, so that -if any of our city friends come out to see us, they can stay all night." "O mother, the proposed arrangements will make us all uncomfortable, you especially," remon- strated Edith. "No matter, I've set my heart on our getting back to the old life, and we must not stop at trifles." ' "But are you sure we have money to spare for all these improvements," continued Edith anx- Iously. "'Oh yes, I think so," said Mrs. Allen indefi- nitely. "' And as your poor father used to say, to spend money is often the best way to get money.'   MRS. ALLEPS POLICY.     I8I '6 Well mother," said Edith dubiously, "I sup- pose you know best, but it don't look very clear to me. There seems nothing definite or certain that we can depend on." "Perhaps not, to-day, but leave all to me. Some one will turn up, who will fill your eye and fill your hand, and what more could you ask in a husband? But you must not be too fastidious. These difficult girls are sure to take up with 'crooked sticks' at last.". (Mrs. Allen's views as to straight ones were not original.) "Leave all to me. I will tell you when the right ones turn up."   CHAPTER XII. -::. X -. WAITING FOR SOME ONE TO TURN UP. , AND so the girls were condemned to idlenes and ennui, and they all came to suffer from these as from a dull toothache, especially Laura and Zell. Edith had great hopes from her garden, and saw the snow finally disappear and the mud dry up, as the imprisoned inmates of the ark might have watched the abatement of the waters. The afternoon of the council wherein Mrs., Al- len had marked out the family policy, Edith and Zell walked to the village, and going to one of the leading stores, made-arrangements with the pro- prietor to have his wagon stop daily at their house for orders. They also asked him to send them a carpenter. They made these requests with the manner of olden time, when money seemed to flow from a full fountain, and the man was very polite, thinking he had gained profitable customers. While they were absent, Rose stepped in to see if she could be of any further help. Mrs. Al- len surmised who she was and resolved to snub her effectually. To Rose's question as to their need of assistance. she replied frigidly " that they had two servants now, and did not wish to employ any more help."   aWAITING FOR SOM'E ONE TO TURN UP. 183 Rose colored, bit her lip, then said with an open smile,- "You are under mistake. I am Miss Lacey, and helped your daughter the first two days after she came." "Oh, ah, Miss Lacey. I beg your pardon," said Mrs. Allen, still more distantly. "My daughter Edith is out. Did she not pay you?" Rose's face became scarlet, and risinrg hastily she said, "Either I misunderstand, or am greatly misunderstood. Good afternoon." Mrs.-Allen slightly inclined her head, while Laura took nho notice of her at all. When she was gone, Mrs. Allen said complaisantly, "I think we will see no more of that bold faced fly-away crea- ture. The idea of her thinking that we would live on terms of social equality with them." Laura's only reply was a yawn, but at last she got up, put on her hat and shawl and went out to walk a little on the porch. Arden, who was re- turning home with his team, stopped a moment to inquire if there was anything further that he could do. He hoped the lady he saw on the porch was Edith, and the wish to see her again led him to think of any excuse that would take him to the house.                - As Laura turned to come toward him, he sur. mised that it was another sister, and was disap- pointed and embarrassed, but it was too late to turn back, though she scarcely appeared to heed him.   I 84    WHA T CAN SHEI DO? "I called to ask Miss Edith if I could'do any- thing more that would be of help to her," he said diffidently. Giving him a cold careless glance, Laura said "I, believe my sister wants some work done around-the house before long. I will tell her that you were here looking for employment, and I have no doubt she will send for you if she needs your ser- vices," and Laura turned her back on him and continued her walk. He whirled about on his heel as if she had struck him, and when he got home his mother noted that his face looked more black and sullen than she had ever seen it before. Rose was open and strong in her indignation, saying: "Fine neighbors you have introduced us to! Nice return they make for all our kindness; not that I begrudge it. But I hate to see people get all out of you they can, and then about the same as slap your face and show you the door." "Did you see Miss Edith?" asked Arden quickly. ' No, I saw the old lady and a proud pale-faced girl who took no more notice of me than if I had come for cold victuals." "I suppose they have heard," said Arden dejectedly. "They have heard nothing against me, not you, nor mother," said Rose hotly If I ever see that Miss Edith again I will give her a piece of my mind."              o   WA TING FOR SOME ONE TO TURN UP. 185 "You will please do nothing of the kind," T said her brother. "She has not turned her back on you. Wait till she does. We Are the last people to condemn one for the sake of another." I( I guess they are all alike; but as you say, it's fair to give her a chance," answered Rose quietly. With his habit of reticence he said nothing about his own experience. But it was a cruel shock that those connected with the one who was becoming the inspiration of his dreams, should be so contemptible as he regarded them, and as we are all apt to regard those who treat us with con- tempt. His faith in her was also shaken, and he resolved that she, must "send for him,"' feeling her need, before he would go near her again. But after all, his ardent fancy began to paint her more gentle and human on the back-ground of the narrow pride shown by the others. He longed for some absolute proof that she was what he be- lieved her, but was too proud to put himself in the way of receiving it. When Edith heard how the Lacey acquaint- ance had been nipped in the bud, she said with honest shame, "It's too bad, after all their kind- ness."   ' "It was the only thing to be done," said Mrs. Allen. "It is better for such people to talk against you, than to be claiming you as neighbors, and all that. It would give us a very bad flavor with the -,  best-people of the town." .: ; -,   [86     YHVA T CA N SH$E DO "I only wish then," said Edith, " that I had never let them do anything for me. I shall hate to meet them again," and she sedulously avoided them. The next day a carpenter appeared after break- fast, and seemed the most affably suggestive man in the world. "Of course he would carry out Mrs. Allen's wishes immediately," and he showed her several other improvements that might be made at the same time, and which would cost but little more while they were ab6ut it. "But how much will it cost?" asked Edith directly. "Oh well," said the man vaguely, " it's hard to estimate on, this kind of jobbing work." Then turning to Mrs. Allen, he said with great deference, "I assure you, madam, I will do it well, and be just as reasonable as possible." ' Certainly, certainly," said Mrs. Allen majes- tically, pleased 'with the deference, "I suppose that is all we ought to ask.' "I think there ought to be something more definite as to price and t;ine of completing the work," still urged Edith. "My dear," said Mrs. Allen with depressing dignity, " pray leave these matters to me. It is not expected that a young lady like yourself should understand- them."' Mrs. Allen had become impressed with the idea that if they ever reached the haven of Fifth Avenue again, she must take the helm and steer their storm- tossed bark. As we have seen before, sale was  . . R   WAITING FOR SOME ONE TO TURN UP. I87 capable of no small degree of exertion when the motive was to attain position and supremacy in the fashionable world. She was great in one direction only-the one to which she had been educated, and to which she devoted her energies. The man chuckled as he went away. "Lucky I had to deal with the old fool rather than that sharp black-eyed girl. By jove! but they are a handsome lot though; only they look like the houses we build nowadays-more, paint and finish than solid timber." The next day there were three or four mechan. ics at work and the job was secured. The day fol- lowing there were only two, and the next day none. Edith sent word by the grocer, asking what was the matter. The following day one man appeared,' and on being questioned, said " the boss was very busy, lots of jobs on hand." "Why did he take our work then?" asked Edith indignantly. "Oh, as to that, the boss takes every job he can get," said the man with a grin. "'Well, tell the boss I want to see him," she replied sharply. The man chuckled and went on with his work in a snail-like manner, as if that were the only job "the boss'" had, or was like to have, and he must make the most of it.  The house was hers, and Edith felt anxious  about it, and indeed it seemed that they were going to great expense with no certain return in ,^       . .   88     WuA T CAN SHE DO?? view. That night one corner of the roof was left open and rain came in and did considerable dam. age. Loud and bitter. were the complaints of the family, but Edith said little. She -was too incensed to talk about it. The next day it threatened rain and no mechanics appeared. Donning her water- proof and thick shoes, she was soon in the village, and by inquiry, found the man's shop. He saw her coming and dodged out. "Very well, I will wait," said Edith, sitting down on a box. The man finding she would not go away, soon after bustled in, and was about to be very polite, but Edith interrupted him with a question that was like a blow between the eyes,- "What do you mean, sir, by breaking your word ?" " Great press of work just now, Miss Allen--" " That is not the question," interrupted Edith, "you said you would do our work immediately, you took it with that distinct understanding, and be- cause you have been false to your word, we have suffered much loss. You knew the roof was not all covered. You knew it, when it rained last night, but the rain did not fall on you, so I suppose you did not care. But is a person who breaks his word in that style a gentleman? Is he even a man, when he breaks it to a lady, who has no brother or husband to protect her interests ? " The man became very red. He was accustom  rAITING FOR SO'nE ONE TO TURN UP. Sg ed, as his workman said, to secure every job he could, then divide and scatter his men so as to keep everything going, but at a slow aggravating late, that wore out every one's patience, save his own. He was used to the annual faultfinding and grumbling of the busy season, and bore it as he would a northeast storm as a disagreeable necessity, and quite prided himself on the good-natured equa . nimity with which he could stand his customers' - scoldings; and thelatter had become so accustom. ed to being put off that they endured it also as they  would a northeaster, and went into improvements and building, as they might visit a dentist. But when Edith turned her scornful face, and large indignant eyes full upon him, and asked prac- tically, what he meant by lying to her, and said that to treat a woman so proved him less than a  - man; he saw his habit of"putting off," in a new light. At first he wasa little inclined to bluster, but Edith interrupted him sharply,-. "I wish to know in a word what you will do.  If that roof is not completed and made tight to - day, I will put thematter in a lawyer's hands and make you pay damages.'"           - This would place the man in an unpleasant business aspect, so he said gruffly,- - "I will send some men right up." '"And I will take no action till I see whether they come," said Edith significantly.    -   - -  They carle, and in a few days the work was allU ^ finished. But a bill double the amount they e - ; D . i   WHAT CAN SHE DO! pected came promptly also. They paid no. atteml tion to it. In the meantime Edith had asked the village merchant, who supplied them with provisions, and who had also become a sort of agent for them, to send a man to plough the garden. The next day an old slouchy fellow with two melan-latoly shacks of horses that might well tremble at the caw of a crow, was scratching the garden with a worn out plough when she came down to breakfast. He had al- ready made havoc in the flower borders, and Edith was disgusted with the outward aspect of himself and team to begin with. But when in her morn- ing slippers she had picked her way daintily to where she could look in the shallow furrows, her vexation knew no bounds. She had been reading about gardening of late, and she had carefully no- ted how all the writers insisted on deep ploughing and the thorough loosening of the soil. This man,;s furrows did not average six inches, and with a 'frowning brow, and dress gathered up, she stood perched on a little stone like a .bird, that had just alighted with ruffled -plumage, while Zeli was on :the porch laughing at her. The mar witl his shackly team soon came round again opposite her, with slow automatic motion as if the whole thing was one crazy piece of mechanism. The man's head was down and he paid no heed to Edith. The rim of his old hat flapped over his face, the horses jogged on with drooping head and ears; as if unable to hold them up, and all seemed going   WA ITING F(OR SOME ONE TO' TURN UP. 19! r down, save the plough. This light affair skimmed and scratched along the ground like the sharpened sticks of oriental tillage. "Stop!" cried Edith sharply. "Whba!" shouted the man, and he turned tow ward Edith a pair of watery Heyes, and a face that suggested nothing but snuff. "Who sent you here?" asked Edith in the same tone. "Mr. Hard, mum." (Mr. Hard was the mere chant who was acting as their agent.) "Am I to pay you for this work, or Mr. Hard?" "I guess you be, mum." "Who's to be suited with this work, you, Mr. H[ard or I?" "I haint thought nothin' about that."' '- Do you mean to say that it makes no differ- ence whether I am suitedor not?" "What yer got agin the work?" "I want my garden ploughed, not scratched You don't plough half deep enough, and you are injuring the shrubs, and flowers in the borders.' "I guess I know more about ploughin' than you do. Gee up thar! to the horses, that seemed in- clined to be Edith's allies by not moving. "Stop!" she cried, "I will not pay you a cent for this work, and wish you to leave this garden instantly." ' Mr. Hard told me to plough this garding and I'm agoin'-to plough it. I never seed the day's work I didn't git paid for yit, and you'll pay for this. Git   192     WHAT CAN SHE DO? up thar, you cussed old critters," and the man struck the horses sharply with a lump of dirt. Away went the crazy rattling old automaton round and round the garden in spite of all she could do. She was half beside herself with vexation which was increased by Zell's convulsed laughter on the porch, but she stormed at the old ploughman as vainly as a robin remonstrating with a windmill. "Mr. Hard told me to plough it, and I'm a-goin' to plough it,"' said the human phase of the mechanism as it passed again where Edith stood without stopping. Utterly baffled, Edith rushed into the house and hastily swallowed a cup of coffee. She was too angry to eat a mouthful. Zell followed with her hand upon her slde that was aching from laughter, and as soon as she found her voice said,- "It was one of the most touchingly beautiful rural scenes I'ever looked upon. I never had so close and inspiring a view of one of the " sons of the soil" before." Y' Yes," snapped Edith, " he is literally a clod."  "I can readily see," cortinued Zell, in a mock sentimental tone," how noble and refining a sphere the " garding' (as your friend, out there, terms it) must be; even for women. In the first place there are your associates in labor--" "Stop!" interrupted Edith sharply.  "You allleave everything for me to do, but I won't be teased and tormented in the bargain."'   WAI TING FOR SOME ONE TO TURN UP. 193 "But really," continued the incorrigible Zell, "' I have been so much impressed by the first scene in the creation of your Eden, which I have just witnessed, that I am quite impatient for the second. It may be that our sole acquaintances in this delightful rural retreat, the ' drunken Laceys,' as mother calls them, will soon insist on becoming inspired with the spirit of the corn they raise in our arbor-', Edith sprang up from the table, and went to her room. "Shame on you, Zell," said Mrs. Allen sharply, but Laura was too apathetic to scold. Impulsive Zell soon relented, and when Edith came down a few moments later in walking trim, and with eyes swollen with unshed tears, Zell threw her arms around her neck and said,- "Forgive your naughty little sister." But Edith repulsed her angrily, and started top ,ward the village. "I do hate to see people sullenly hoard up things," said Zell snappishy. Then she dawdled about the house, yawning and saying fretfully, "I do wish I knew what to do with myself." Laura reclined on the sofa with a novel, but Zell was not fond of reading. Her restless nature craved continual activity and excitement, but it was part of Mrs. Allen's policy that they should do nothing. "Some one may call," she said, ' and we must be ready to receive them," but at that season of 9   194     WHA T CAN SHE DOt the year, when roads were muddy, there was but little social visiting in thecountry. So, consumed with ennui, Zell listened to the pounding of the carpenters overhead, and watchedlr the dogged old ploughman go round the small gar- den till it was all scratched over, and then the whole crazy mechanism rattled off to parts un- known. The two servants did not leave her even the resource of housework of which she was natu- rally fond. Edith went straight to Mr. Hard and was so provoked that she scarcely avoided the puddles in her determined haste. Mr. Hard looked out upon his customers with cold hard little eyes that changed their expression only in growing more cold and hard. The rest of his person seemed all bows, smirks and smiles, but it was noticed that these latter diminished and his eyes grew harder as he wished to remind some lagging patron that his little account needed set- tling. This thrifty citizen of Pushton was soon in polite attendance on Edith, but was rather taken back, when she asked sharply, what lihe meant by sending such a good-for-nothing man to plough her garden. "Well, Miss Allen," he said, his eyes growing harder but his manner more polite, "Old Gideon does such little jobs around, and I thought,he was just the one." "Does he plough your garden?" asked Editt abruptly. "      -"          . s   IAITIG FOR. SOME ONE TO TURN UP. I95 "I keep a gardener," said Mr Hard with some dignity. "I believe it would pay me to do the same, !aid Edith, "if,:I could find one on whom I c6'd depend. The man you sent was very impudent. I told him the work didn't suit me--that he didn't plough half deep enrough, and that he must leave. But he just kept right on, saying you sent him, and he would plough it, and he injured my flower- borders besides. Therefore he must look to you for payment." (Mr. Hard's eyes grew very hard at this.) "Because I am a woman I am not going to be imposed upon. Now do you know of a man who can really plough my garden? If not, I must look elsewhere. I had hoped when you took our business you would have some interest in seeing that we were well served." Mr. Hard with eyes like two flint pebbles, made a low bow and said with impressive dignity: "It is my purpose to do so. There is Mr Skinner, he does ploughing." "I don't want Mr. Skinner," said Edith im- patiently, "I don't like his name in reference to ploughing." "Oh, ah! excellent reason, very good, Miss Allen. Well, there's Mr. McTrump, a Scotchman, who has a small green-house and nursery, he looks after gardens for some people." "I will go and see him," said Edith taking his address. As she plodded off to find his place, she sighed   196     WHAT CAN SHE DO? ' Oh dear it's dreadful to have no men in the faram ily That Arden. Lacey might have helped me so much, if mother was not so particular, I fearl we are all on the wrong track, throwing away substan- tial and present good for uncertainties." Mr. McTrump was a little man with a heavy sandy beard, and such thick bushy eyebrows and hair, that he reminded Edith of a Scotch terrier. But her first glance around convinced her that" he was a gardener. Neatness, order, thrift, impressed her the moment she opened his gate, and she per- ceived that he was already quite advanced in his spring work. Smooth seed-sown beds were emerg- ing from winter's chaos. 'Crocuses and hyacinths were in bloom, with tulips budding after them, and on a sunny slope in the distance she saw long, green rows of what seemed some growing crop. She determined if possible to make this man her ally, or by stratagem to gain his secret of success, The little man stood in the door of his green- house with a transplanting trowel in his hand. He was dressed in clay colored nankeen, and could get down in the dirt without seeming to get dirty. His small eyes twinkled shrewdly, but not unkind. ly as she advanced toward him. He was fond of flowers, and she looked like one herself that Spring morning. "I was directed to call upon, you," she said, with conciliatory politeness, "understanding that you sometimes assist people with their gardens." r   WAITING FOR SO$E ONE TO TURN UP. 197 "Weel, noo and then I do, but I canna give mooch time with a' my ain work." "But you would help a lady who has no one else to help her, wouldn't you?" said Edith sweetly. Old Malcom was not to be caught with a sugar- plum. so he said with a little Scotch caution,- "I canna vera weel say till-I hear mair aboot it." Edith told him how she was situated, and ir. view of her perplexity and trouble, her voice had a little appealing pathos in it. Malcom's eyes twinkled more and more kinlldly, and as he explained afterwards to his wife, "Her -face was sae like a pink hyacinth beent doon by the storm and a Wantin propin oop," that by the time she was done he was ready to accede to her wishes. "Weel," said he, "I canna refuse a blithe young leddy like yoursel, but ye must let me have my ain way." Edith was inclined to demur at this, for she had been reading up and had many plans and. theories to carry out. But she concluded to accept the- condition, thinking that with her feminine tact and coaxing she would have her own way after all. She d:d not realize that she was dealing with a Scotchman. "I'll send ye a mon as will plow the garden and not scratch it, the morrow, God willin, for Mr. McTrump was a very pious man, his only fault be. ing that he would take a drop too much occasionally.   198     WA T, CAN SHE DO? "May I stay here awhile and watch you work and look at things?" asked Edith. "I don't want to go back till that hateful old fellow has done his mischief and islgone." "Why not?" said Malcom, " an ye don't tech anything. The woman folk from the village as come here do pick and pull much awry." "I promise you I will be good," said Edith eagerly. "That's mair than ony on us can say of oursel," said Malcom, showing the doctrinal bias of his mind, " but I ken fra' ye bonny face ye mean weeld' "O Mr. McTrump, that is the first compliment I have received in Pushton," laughed Edith. "I'm a thinkin it'll not be the last. But I hope ye mind the Scripter where it says, "We do all fade as a flower,' and ye will not be puffetdop." But Edith, far more intent on horticultural than scriptural knowledge, asked quickly,- "What were -you going to set out with that trowel?" "A new strawherry bed. I ha' more plants the spring than I can sell, sac I thought to put oot a new bed, though I ha' a good mony." ' I am so giad. I wish to set out a large bed and can get the plants of you." "How mony do ye want?" said Malcom, with a quick eye to business. "I shall leave that to you when you see my ground. Now see how I trust you, Mr. McTrump." "An ye'll not lose by it, though I would na like   WAI TINrG FOR SOME -ONE TO TURN UP. 199i a' my coostomers to put me sae strictly on my hons esty." Edith spent the next hour in looking around the garden and green houses and watching the oldC man put out his plants. "These plants are to be cooltivated after the hill seestem," he said. "They are to stand one foot apart in the row, and the rows two feet apart, and not a rooner or weed to grow on, or near them, and it would do your bright eyes good to see the great red berries they'll bear." "Shall I raise nine that way? ' said Edith. "Weel, ye might soom, but the narrow row- coolture will be best for ye, I'm thinkin.'" "What's that?" "Weel, just let the plants run togither and make a thick close row a foot wide, an' two, feet between the rows. That'll be the easiest for ye, but I'll show ye." "I'm so glad I found you out,' said Edith, heartily, ' and if you will let me, I want to come here often and see how you, do everything, for to tell you the truth, between ourselves, we are poor, and may have to earn our living out of the garden, or some other way, and I would rather do it out of the garden." "Weel noo, ye're a canny lass to coom and fich all old Malcom's secrets to set oop opposition to him. / But then sin' ye do it sae openly I'll tell ye all I know. The big wourld ought to be 'wide enough for a bonnie lassie like yoursel, to ha a charce i   200     WHA T CAN SHE DO? it, and though I'm a little mon, I would na be sas mean a one as to hinder ye. Mairover the gar- dener's craft be a gentle one, and I see na reason why, if a white lily like yoursel must toil and spin. it should na be oot in God's sunshine, where the flowers, bloom, instead o' pricking the bluid oot o' ye're body, and the hope oot o' ye're heart, wi' the needle's point, as I ha seen sae mony'o' my ain coontry lassies do. Gude-by, and may the roses in ye'r cheeks bloom a' the year round." Edith felt as if his last words were a blessing, and started with her heart cheered and hopeful -and yet beyond her garden, with its spring prom- ise, its summer and autumn possibilities, there was little inspiring or hopeful in her new home. In accordance with their mother's policy, they were waiting for something to turn up-waiting, in utter uncertainty, and with dubious prospects, to achieve by marriage the security and competence which they must not work for, or utterly lose caste in the old social world in which they had lived. Be not too hasty in condemning Mrs. Allen, my reader, for you may, at the same time, condemn yourself. Have you no part in sustaining that public sentiment which turns the cold shoulder of society toward the woman who works? Many are growing  rich every year, but more are growing poor. What does the "best society," in the world's estimation, say to the daughters in these families? "Keep your little hands white, my dears, as long   WYAITING FOR SOME ONE TO TURN UP. 201 as you can, because as soon as the traces of toil are seen on them, you become a working woman, and our daughters can't associate with you, and our sons can't think of you, that is for wives. No othet than little and white hands can enter our heaven." So multitudes struggle to keep their hands white, though thereby, the risk that their souls will be- come stained and black, increases daily. A host of fair girls find their way every year to darker stains than ever labor left, because they know how coldly society will ignore them the moment they enlist in the army of honest workers. But you, respectable men and women in your safe pleasant !homes, to the extent that you hold and sustain this false sentiment, to the extent that you make the paths of labor hard and thorny, and darken-them from the approving smile of the world, you are guilty of these girls' ruin.  Christian matron, with your husband one of the pillars of church and state, do you shrink with dis- gust from that poor creature who comes flaunting down Broadway. None but the white-handed enter your parlors, and the men (?) who are hunting such poor girls to perdition,- will sit on the sofa with your daughters this evening. - Be not too confident. Your child, or one in who m your blood flows, at a little later remove, may stand just where honor to toil would save, but the practical dishonoring of it, which you sustain, eventually blot out the light of earth and heaven. Mrs. Allen knew that even if her daughten-  - 9*   202     WHAT CAN N'SHE DO  commenced teaching, which, with all the thousands spent on their education, they were incapable of doing, their old sphere on Fifth Avenue would be as unapproachable as the pearly gates, between which and,the lost a "great gulf is fixed." But Mrs. Allen knew also of a very respectable way, having the full approval of society, by which they might regain their place in the heaven from which they had fallen. Besides it was such a simple way, requiring no labor whatever, though a little scheming perhaps, no amount of brains or culture worth mentioning, no heart or love, and least of all a noble nature. A woman may sell herself, or if of a waxy disposition, having little force, might be sold at the altar to a man who would give wealth and luxury in return. This, society, in full dress, would smile upon and civil law and sacred ceremony sanction. With the forefinger of her right hand resting impressively on the palm of her left, Mrs. Allen had indicated this back door into the Paradise, the gates of which were guarded against poor working women by the flaming sword of public opinion, turning every way. And the girls were waiting yawningly, wearily, as the long unoccupied days passed. Laura's cheek grew paler than even her delicate style of beauty demanded. She seemed not only a hot-house plant, but a sickly one. The light was fading from lier eye as well as the color from her cheek, and all vigor vanishing from her languid soul and body.   WAITING FOR SOME ONE TO TURN UP. 203 The resemblance to her mother grew more striking daily. She was a melancholy result of that artifi- cial luxurious life that so enervates the whole nature that there seems no stamina left to resist the first cold blast of adversity. Instead of being like a well-rooted hardy native of the soil she seemed a tender exotic that would wither even in the honest sunlight. As a gardener-would say, she needed "hardening off." This would require the bracing of principle, the incentive of hope, and the development of work. But Mrs. Allen could not lead the way to the former, and the latter she forbade, so poor Laura grew more sickly and morbid every day of her weary idle waiting. Mrs. Allen's policy bore even more heavily on Zell. We have all thought something perhaps of the cruelty of that imprisonment which places a young vigorous person, abounding in animal life and spirits, in a narrow cell, which forbids all action and stifles hope. It gives the unhappy victim the sensation of being buried alive. There comes at last to be one passionate desire to get out and away. Impulsive, restless, excitable Zell, with every vein filled with hot young blood, was shut out from what seemed to her, the world, and no other world of activity was shown to her. Her hands were tied by her mother's policy, and she sat moping and chafing like a chained captive, waiting till Mr. Van Dam should come and deliver hef from as vile durance as was ever suffered in the moss-grown castles of the old world. The hope of       -    \    '      '.   204     WHAT CAN SHE DO? his coming was all that sustained her. tHer sad situation was the result of acting on a false view of life from beginning to end. Any true parent would have shuddered at the thought of a daugh. ter marrying such a man as Van Dam, but Zell was forbidden to do one useful thing lest it might mar her chance of union with this resum6 of all vice and uncleanness, and though she had heard the many reports of his evil life, her moral sense was so perverted that he seemed a lion rather than a reptile to her. It is true, she looked upon him only in the light of her future husband, but that she did not shrink from any relationship with such, a man, shows how false and defective her education had been.          / Edith had employment- for/ mind and hand, therefore was happier and safer than either of lier sisters. Malcom had her garden thoroughly plough- ed, and helped her plant it. He gavelher many flower roots and sold others at very low prices. In the lower part of the garden, where the ground was rather heavy and moist, hle put out quite a large number of raspberries; and along a stone fence, where weeds and bushes had been usurping the ground, he planted two or three varieties of blackcaps. He also lined another fence with Kit- tatinny blackberries. There were already quite a large number of currants and gooseberries on the place. These he trimmed, and put in cuttings for new bushes. He pruned the grapevines also some- what, but not to any extent, on account of the   WAITING FOR SOME ONE TO TURN UP. 205 lateness of the season, meaning to get them into shape by summer cutting. The orchard also was made to look clean and trim, with dead wood and interfering branches cut away. Edith watched these operations with the deepest interest, and when she could, without danger of being observed  from the road,' assisted, though in a very dainty -  amateur way. But Malcom did not work to put .  in hours, but seemed to do everything with a sleight of hand, that made his visits appear too brief, even though she had to pay for them. As a refuge from long idle hours, she would often go up to Malcom's little place, and watch him- and his assistant as they deftly dealt with nature in ac- cordance with her moods, making the most of the soil, sunlight, and rain. Thus Malcom came to take a great interest in her, and shrewd Edith was not slow in fostering so useful a friendship. But in spite of all this, there were many rainy idle days that hung like lead upon her hands, and upon these especially, it seemed impossible to carry out her purpose to be gentle and forbearing, and it often occurred that the dull apathy of the household was changed into positive pain by sharp words and angry retorts that should never have- been spoken. About the last Sabbath of April, Mrs. Allen sent for a carriage and was driven with her daugh. ters to one of ttie most fashionable churches of Pushton. Marshalled by the sexton, they rustled in toilets more suitable for one of the gorgeous   206     WHA T CAN SHE DO? temples of Fifth Avenue, than even the most am. bitious of country churches. Mrs. Allen hoped to make a profound impression on the country peo- ple, and by this one dress parade, to secure stand ing and cordial recognition among the foremost families. But she overshot the mark. The fail- ure of Mr. Allen was known. The costly mourn- ing suits and the little house did not accord, and the solid, sensible people were unfavorably im- pressed, and those of fashionable and aristocratic tendencies felt that considerable investigation was needed before the strangers could be admitted within their exclusive circles. So, though it was not a Methodist church that they attended, the Allens were put on longer probation by all classes, when if they had appeared in a simple unassum- ing-manner, rating themselves at their true worth and position, many would have been inclined to take -them by the hand.   CHAPTER XIII. THEY TURN UP. ONE  morning, a month after the Aliens had gone into poverty's exile, Gus Elliot lounged into Mr. Van Dam's luxurious apartments. There was everything around him to ,gratify the eye of sense; that is, such sense as Gus Elliot had culti. vated, though an angel might have hidden his face We will not describe these rooms-we had better not. It is sufficient to say that in their decorations, pictures, bacchanal ornaments, and general sug gestion, they were a reflex of Mr. Van Dam's char- acter, in the more refined and aesthetic phase which he presented to society. Indeed, in the name of art, whose mantle, if at times rather flimsy, is broader than that of charity, not a few would have idmired the exhibitions of Mr. Van Dam's taste, which, though not severe, were bare in a bad sense. We are a little skeptical in -regard to thoee enthu- siasts for nude art. But concerning Gus Elliot, no doubt exists in Ourmind. The atmosphere of Mr. Van Dam's room was entirely congenial and adapted to his chosen direction of development. He was a young man of leisure and fashion and was therefore what even the fashionable would be horrified at their daulgh-   20o8     WHAT CAN SHE DO t ters ever becoming. This nice distinction between son and daughter does not result well. It leaves men in the midst of society unbranded as vile, unmarked so that good women may shrink in disgust from them. It gives them a chance to prey upon the wreak, as Mr. Van Dam purposed to do, and as he Intended to induce Gus Elliot to do, and as multitudes of exquisitely dressed scoundrels are doing daily. If Mr. and Mrs. Allen had done their duty as parents, they would have kept the wolf (I beg the wolf's pardon) the jackal, Mr. Van Dam, with his thin disguiser of society polish, from entering their fold. Gus Elliot was one of those mean curs that never lead, and could always be drawn into any evil that satisfied the one question of his life, "Will it give me what I want." Gus was such an exquisite that the smell of garlic made him sick, and the sight of blood made him faint, and the thought of coarse working hands was an abomination, but in worse than idleness he could see his old father wearing himself out, he could get " gentlemanly drunk," and commit any wrong in vogue among the fast young men with whom he: associated. And now Mephistopheles Van Dam easily induces him to seek to drag down beautiful Edith Allen, the woman he' meant to marry, to a life compared with which the city gutters are cleanly. Van Dam in slippers and silken robe was smok. ing his meerschaum after a late breakfast and read. ing a French novel.   THE Y TURN UP.      209 "What is the matter?" he said, noting Gus' expression of ennui and discontent. "There is not another girl left in the city to be mentioned the same day with Edith Allen," said Gus, with the pettishness of a child from whom something had been taken. "Well spooney, what are you going to do about it?" asked Mr. Van Dam coolly. "What is there to do about, it? you know well enough that I can't afford to marry her. I sup- pose it's the best thing for me that she has gone off to the backwoods somewhere, for while she was here I could not help seeing her, and after all it was only an aggravation." "I can't afford to marry Zell," replied Van Dam, "but I am going up to see her to-morrow. After being out there by themselves for a month, I think they will be glad to see some one from the civilized world." The most honest thing about Van Dam was his sincere commiseration for those com. pelled to live in quiet 'country places, without experience in the highly 'spiced pleasures and ex- citements of the metropolis. In his mind they were associated with oxen-innocent, rural and heavy, these terms being almost synonymous to him, and suggestive of such a forlorn tame condition, that it seemed only vegetating, not living. Mr. Van Dam believed in a life, like his favorite dishes, that abounded in cayenne. Zell's letters had confirmed this opinion, and he saw that she was half desper.- ate with ennui and disgust with their loneliness.   210     WH4 T CA N SE DO?         I "' I imagine we have staid away long enough," he continued. "They have had sufficient of thle miseries of mud, rain, and exile, not to be very nice about the conditions of return to old haunts and life. Of course I can't afford to marry Zell any more than you can 'Edith, but for all that I expect to have her here with me before many months pass, and perhaps weeks." "Look here, Van Dam, you are going too far. Remember how high the Allens once stood in soci. ety," said Gus, a little startled. "'Once stood;' where do they stand now? Who in society has, or will lift a finger for them, and they seem to have no near relatives to stand by them. Itell you they are at our mercy. Lux- ury is a necessity, and yet they are not able to earn their bare bread. "Let me inform you," he continued, speaking with the confidence of a hunter, who from long experience knows just where the game is most ea- sily captured, 6( that there is no class more helpless than the very rich when reduced to sudden poverty. They are usually too proud to work, in the first place, and in the second, they don't know how to do anything. What does a fashionable education fit a girl for, I would like to know, if, as it often oc- curs, they have to make their own way in the world  -a smattering of everything, mistress of nothing." - Well Van Dam," said Gus,{ Xaccording to your showring, it fits them: for little schemes like the olde you are broaching "'   THEY TURN UP.       2" Precisely, girls who know how, to work and who are accustomed to -it, will snap their fingeis in your face, and tell you they can take care of thenm. selves, but the class to which the Allens belong., unless kept up by some rich relations, are soon al- most desperate from want. I have kept up a cor- respondence with Zell. They seem to have no near relatives or-friends who are doing much for them. They are doing nothing for themselves, save spend what little there is left, and their mo- notonous country life has half-murdered them already. So I conclude I have waited long enough and will go up to-morrow. Instead of pouting like a spoiled child, over your lost Edith, you had better go up and get her. It may take a little time and- management. Of course they must be made to think we intend to marry them, but if they once elope with us, we can find a priest at our leisure. "' I will go up to-morrow with you any way," said Gus, who, like so many others, never made a square bargain with the devil, but was easily "led captive" from one wrong and villany to another. It was the last day of April--one on which the rawness and harshness of early spring was melting into the mildness of May. The buds on the trees had perceptibly swollen. The flowering maple was still aflame, the sweet centre of attraction to in- numerable bees, the hum of whose industry rose and fell on-the languid breeze. The grass had the delicate green and exquisite odor belonging to its first growth, and was rapidly turning the brown, 212 2WHA T CAN SHE DO? withered sward ofe winter into emerald. The sun shone through a slight haze, but shone warmly, The birds had opened the day with full orchestra, but at noon there was little more than chirp and twitter, they seeming to feel something of Edith's languor, as she leaned on the railing of the porch, sand watched for the coming of Malcom. She v sighed as she looked at the bare brown earth of the large space that she purposed for strawherries, and work there and every where seemed repulsive. The sudden heat was enervating and gave her the feeling of luxurious languor that she longed to enjoy with the sense of security and freedom from care. But even as her eyelids drooped with momentary drowsiness, there was a consciousness, like a dull half recognized pain, of insecurity, of impending trouble and danger, and of a need for exertion that would lead to' something more certain than anything her mother's policy promised. She was startled from her heaviness by the sharp click of the gate latch, and Malcom entered with two large baskets of strawherry plants. He had said to her,-- "Wait a bit. The plants will do weel, put oot  the last o' the moonth. An ye wait I'll gi( ye the plants I ha' left oover and canna sell the season. But dinna be troobled, I'll keepit enoof for ye ony way." By this means Edith obtained half, her plants without cost, save for Malcom's labor of transplant ing them.   THEY TURN UP.  213 The weather had little influence on Malcom's wiry frame, and his spirit of energetic, cheerful in. dustry was contagious. Once aroused and inter. ested, Edith lost all sense of time, and the after. noon passed happily away. At her request Malcom had brought her a pair of pruning nippers, such -as she had seen him use, and she kept up a delicate show of work, trimming the rose bushes and shrubs, while she watched him. She could not bring her mind to anything that looked like real work as yet, but she had a feeling that it must come. She saw that it would help Malcom    very much if she went before and dropped the plants for him, but some one might see her, and speak of her doing useful work. The aristocratically inclined in Pushton would frown on the young lady-so employed, but she could snip at roses and twine vines, and that would look pretty E and rural from the road. But it so happened that the one who caught a glimpse of her spring day beauty and saw the pretty rural scene she crowned, was not the critical occupant of some family carriage; for when, while near the road, she was reaching u? to clip off the topmost spray of a    bush, her  attention was drawn by the rattle of a  wagon, and in this pictur- esque attitude her eyes met those of Arden Lacey. The sudden remembrance of the unkind return made to him, and the fact that she had therefore dreaded meeting him, caused her to blush deeply. Her feminine quickness caught his expression, a tim.  2I4     WHA T CAN SHE DO  id questioning look, that seemed to ask if she would act the part of the others. Edith was a society and city girl, and her confusion lasted but a sec. end. Policy whispered, ' you can still keep him as a useful friend, though you must keep him at a distance, and you may need him." Some sense of gratitude and of the wrong done him and his, also mingled with these thoughts, passing with the marvellous rapidity with which a lady's mind acts in social emergencies. She also remembered that they were alone, and that none of the Pushton notables could see that she was acquainted with the " drunken Laceys." Therefore before the dif- fident Arden could turn away, she bowed and smiled to him in a genial, conciliatory manner. His face brightened into instant sunshine and to her surprise he lifted his old weather-stained felt hat like a gentleman. Though he had received no lessons' in. etiquette, he was inclined to be a little courtlyand stately in manner, when he noticed a ladv at all, from unconscious imnitation of the high bred characters in the romances he read. He said to himself in glad exultation,- "She is different from the rest. She is as divinely good as she is divinely beautiful," and away he rattled toward Pushton as happy as if his old box wagon were a goldein chariot, and he a caliph of Arabian story on whom had just shonle the lustrous eyes of the Queen of the East. Ther as the tumult in his mind subsided, questioning thoughts as to the cause of her blush came troop   THEY TURN UP.       2I5 ing through his mind, and at once there arose a long vista of airy castles tipped with hope as with sunlight. Poor Arden! What a wild uncurbed imnagination had mastered his morbid nature, as he lived a hermit's life among the practical people of Pushton! If he-had known that Edith, had she seen him in the village, would have crossed the street rather than have met, or recognized him, it would have plunged him into still bitterer misanthropy. She and -his mother only stood between him and utter contempt and hatred of his kind, as they ex- isted in reality, and not in his books and dreams. She forgot all about him before his wagon turn- ed the corner of the road, and chatted away to Malcom, questioningand nipping with increasing zest. As the day grew cooler, her spirits rose un der the best of all stimulants, agreeable occupa- tion. The birds ceased at last' their nest-build- ing, and from orchard and grove came many an inspiring song. Edith listened with keen enjoy- ment, and country life and work looked differ-. ently from what it had in the sultry noon. She saw the long rows of strawherry vines increasing under Malcom's labors with deep satisfaction. In the still humid air the plants scarcely wilted and stood up with the bright look of those well started in life. As it grew towards evening and no carriage of note had passed, Edith ventured to get her trans. planting trowel,- doff her gloves, and commence di viding her flower roots that she might put them   2l6     1-If A 7 CAN SHE DO  elsewhere. She became so interested in her work that she was positively happy, and soft hearted Malcom, with his eye for the beauties of nature, was getting his rows crooked, because of so many ad- miring glances toward her as she went to and fro. The sun was lownin the west and shone in crimson through the soft haze. But the color in her cheeks was richer as she rose from the ground, her little right hand lost in the scraggly earth-covered roots of some hardy phlox, and turned to meet exquis- ite Gus Elliot, dressed with finished care, and hands encased in immaculate gloves. Her broad rimmed hat was pushed back, her dress looped up, and She made a picture in the evening glow that would have driven a true artist half wild with ad- miration; but poor Gus was quite shocked. The ideA of Edith Allen, the girl he had meant to marry, grubbing in the dirt and soiling her hands in that style! It was his impression that only Dutch women worked in a garden ; and for all he knew of its products she might be setting out a potato plant. Quick Edith caught his expression, and while she crimsonedf with, vexation at her plight, felt a new and sudden sense of contempt for the semblance of a main before her. But with the readiness of a society girl she smoothed her way out of the dilemma, saying with vivacity,--  "Why Mr. Elliot, where did you drop from? You have surprised me among my flowers, you see." "Indeed, Miss Edith," said Gus, in rather un.   T/E'B Y 'URN UP,     217 happily phrased gallantry, "to see you thus em. ployed makes me feel as if we both had dropped into some new and strange sphere: You seem the lovely shepherdess of this rural scene, but where is your flock?" Shrewd Malcom, near by, watched this scene as the terrier he resembled might, and took instant and instinctive dislike to the new comer. With a contemptuous sniff he thought to himself, ("There's mateerial enoof in ye for so mooch toward a flock as a calf and a donkey." "A truce to your lame compliments," she said, concealing her vexation under badinage. "I do not live by hook and crook yet, whatever I may come to, and I remember that you only appreciate artificial flowers made by pretty shop girls, and these are not in the country. But come in. Moth- er and my sisters will be glad to see you." Gus was not blind to her beauty, and while the idea of marriage seemed more impossible than ever, now that he had seen her hands soiled, the evil suggestion of Van Dam gained attractiveness with every glance. Edith found Mr. Van Dam on the' porch with Zell, who had welcomed him in a manner that meant much to the wily man. He saw how neces- sary he was to her, and how she had been living on the hope of seeing him, arid the baseness of his nature was shown that instead of being stirred to one noble kindly impulse toward her, he simply exr ulted in his power 10   28      WHAT CAN SHE DO! "Oh," said she, as with both hands she greeted him, her eyes half filling with tears, " we llave been living like poor exiles in a distant land, and you seem as if just from home, bringing the best part of it with you." "And Lshall carry you back to it ere long," he whispered. Her face grew bright and rosy with the deepest happiness she had ever known. He had never spoken so plainly before. "Edith can never taunt me again with his silence," she thought. Though sounding well enough to the ear, how false were his words! When Satan would do work that will' sink to lowest perdition, he must commence as an angel of light. Zell was giving the best love of which her heart was capable in view of her defect- ive education and character. In a sincere and deep affection there are great possibilities of good. Her passion, so frank and strong, in the hands of a true man, was a lever that might have lifted her up into the noblest life. Van Dam sought to use it only to force her down. He purposed to cause one of God's little oneto offend. Edith soon appeared, dressed with the taste and style of a Fifth Avenue belle of the more sensible sort, and Gus was comforted. Her pictur- esque natural beauty in the garden was quite lost on him, but now that he saw the familiar touches of the artificial in her general aspect, she seemed to him the peerless Edith of old. And yet his nice eye noted that even a month of absence froma   THEY TURN UP.      29 the fashionable centre, had left her ignorant of some of the shadings off of one mode into another. and the thought pagd over the polished surface of his mind (all Gus' thoughts were on the surface, tlhere being no other accommodation for them) i' why, a year in this out of the world life, and she would be only a country girl."' But all detracting thoughts of each other, all mean, vile, and deadly -purposes, were hidden under smiling exteriors. Mrs. Allen was the gracious, elegant matron who would not for the world let her- daughters soil their hands, but schemed to marry one to a weak apology for-a man, and another to a villain out and out, and the fashionable world would cordially approve and sustain Mrs.-Allen's tactics if she succeeded. Laura brightened up more than she had since her father's death. Anything that gave hope of return to the city, and the possibility of again meeting and withering Mr. Goulden with her scorn, was welcome. And Edith, while she half despised Gus, found it very pleasant to meet those of her old set again, and repeat a bit of the past. The young crave companionship, and in spite of all his weakness, she half liked Elliot. With youtl's hopefulness she believed that he might become a man if he only would. At any rate, she half-consciously formed the reckless purpose to shut her eyes to all presentiments of coming trouble and enjoy the evening to the utmost.   220     WHAT CAN SHE DO  Hannibal was enjoined to getp as fine a sup per as possible, regardless of cost,;with Mrs. Allen maid to assist.  In the long purple twilight, Edith and Zeli, on the arms of their pseudo lovers, strolled up and down the paths of the little garden and dooryard. As Edith and Gus were passing along the walk that skirted the road, she heard the heavy rumble of a wagon that she knew to be Arden Lacey's. She did not look up or recognize him, but appeared so intent on what Gus was saying, as to be obliv- ious to all else, and yet through her long lashes, she glanced toward him in a rapid flash, as he sat in his rough working garb on the old board where she, on the rainy night of her advent to Pushton, had clung to his arm in the jolting wagon. Mo. mentary as the glance was, the pained, startled expression of his face as he bent his eyes full upon her, caught her attention and remained with her. His manner and appearance secured the atten tion of Gus also, and with a contemptuous laugh, he said loud enough for Arden to hear partially,-- "That native comes from pretty far back, I im- agine. He looks as if he never saw a lady and gentleman before. The idea of living like such a cabbage head as that." If Gus had not been with Edith, his 'good clothes and good looks would have been spoiled within the next five minutes. Edith glanced the other way and pointed to I   THEY TURN UP.       221 ,*^j2 21. het strawherry bed as if not noticing his i emark or its object, saying,- "If you will come and see us a year from next Jurle, I can give you a dainty treat from these plants." "You will not be here next June," said Gus tenderly. ' Do you imagine we can spare you from New York? The city has seemed dull since fobbed of the light of your bright eyes." Edith rather liked sugar plums of such make, even from Gus, and she, as it were, held out her hand agaili by the rather sentimental remark,- "Absent ones are soon forgotten." Gus, from much experience, knew how to flirt beautifully, and so with some aptness and show of feeling, replied,- -  "From my thoughts you are never absent." Edith gave him a quick questioning look. What did he mean? He had avoided everything  tending to commit him to a penniless girl after her father's death. Was this mere flirtation? Or had he, in absence, learned his need of her for happi- ness, and was now willing to marry her even though poor. "If he is man enough to do this, he is capable of doing more," she thought quickly, and circum- stances pleaded for him. She felt so troubled about the future, so helpless and lonely, and he seemed so inseparably associated-with her old bright life, that she was tempted to lean on such a *swaying reed as she knew Gus to be. She did not - .7    X '       :- o ^   222     WHAT CAN S$HE DOt        r reply, but he could see the color deepen in hex cheeks even in the fading twilight, her bosom rose and fell more quickly, and her hand rested upon his arm with a more confiding pressure. What more could he ask? and he exulted. But before he, could speak again they were summoned to supper. Van Dam touched Gus' elbow as they passed in and whispered,- '"Don't be precipitate. Say nothing definite to-night. I gather from Zell that a little more of their country purgatory will render them wholly desperate." Edith noticed the momentary detention and whispering, and the thought there was some un- derstanding between the two occurred to her. For some undefined reason she was always inclined to be suspicious and on the alert when Mr. Van Dam was present. And yet it was but a pass. ing thought, soon forgotten in the enjoyment of the evening, after so long and dull an experience. Zell was radiant, and there was a glimmer of color in Laura's pale cheeks. After supper they sat down to cards. The decanter was placed on the side table, and heavy inroads were made on Mrs. Allen's limited stock of wine, for the gentlemen, feeling that they were off on a lark, were little inclined to self-control. They also insisted on the ladies drinking health with them, which foolish Zell, and more foolish Mts. Allen were too ready to do, and for the first time since their coming, the little cottage resounded   THEY T UR N UP.      223 with laughter that was too loud and frequent to be inspired by happiness only. If guardian angels watched there, as we believe they do everywhere, they might well veil their faces in sadness and shame. But the face of poor innocent Hannibal shone with delight, and nodding his head toward Mrs. Allen's maid withf the complacency of a prophet who saw his-predictions fulfilled, he said: "I told you my young ladies wasn't gwine to stay long in Bushtown," (as Hannibal persisted in calling the place). To-Arden Lacey, the sight of Edith listening with glowing cheeks and intent manner to a stran- ger with her hand within his arm-a stranger too that seemed the, embodiment of that convention- ality of the world which he despised and hated, was a vision that pierced like a sword. And then Gus' contemptuous words; Edith's non-recognition, though he tried to believe she had not seen him, was like vitriol to a wound. At first there was a mad impulse of anger toward Elliot, and as we have intimated, only Edith's presence prevented Arden from demanding instant apology He knew enough of his fiery nature to feel that he must get away as fast as possible, or he migl t forever dis- grace himself in Edith's eyes. As he rode home his mind was in a sad chaos. He was conscious that his airy castles were faIling about him with a crash, which though unheard by all the world, shook his soul to the centre. r                  '    224     WHA T CAN SHE DO0 Too utterly miserable to face his mother, loath. ing the thought of food, he put up his horses and rushed out into the night. In his first impulse he vowed never to look toward Edith again, but before two hours of fruit- less wandering had passed, a fascination drew his feet toward Edith's cottage, only to hear that de- tested voice again, only to hear even Edith's laugh ring out too loud and reckless to come from the lips of the exquisite ideal of his dreams. Though the others had spoken in thunder tones, he had ears for these two voices only. He rushed away from the spot, as one might from some torturing vision, exclaiming,-- "The real world is a worse mockery than the one of my dreams. Would to heaven I had never been born!"   CHAPTER XIV. WE CAN'T WORK. THE gentlemen agreed to meet the ladies the next day at church. Mrs. Alien insisted upon it, as she wished to show the natives of Pushton that they were visited by people of style from the city. As yet they had not received many calls, and those venturing had come in a reconnoiter- ing kind of way. She knew so little of solid coun- try people as to suppose that-two young men, like Gus Elliot and Van Dam, would make a favorable impression. The latter with a shrug and grimace at Zell, which she, poor child, thought funny, promis- ed to do so, and then they {ook leave with great cordiality. So they were ready to hand the Allens out of their carriage the next morning, and were, with the ladies, who were dressed even more 'elaborately- than on the previous Sabbath, shown to a promi- nent pew, the centre of many admiring eyes, as they supposed. But where one admired, ten criticised. The summer hotel at Pushton had brought New York too near and made it too familiar for Mrs. Al- len's tactics. Visits to town were easily made and frequent, and by brief diversions of their attention from the service, the good church people soon sat- Io*   226     WHA T CAN SHE DOt isfied themselves that the young men belonged to the bold fast type, an impression strengthened by the parties themselves who had devotion only for Zell and Edith, and a bold stare for any pretty girl that caught their eyes. After church they parted with the understand- ing that the gentlemen should come out toward night and spend the evening. Mr. Van Dam and Gus Elliot dined at the vil- lage hotel, having ordered the best dinner that the landlord was capable of serving, and a couple of bottles of wine. Over this they became so exhilarated as to attract a good deal of atten- tion. A village tavern is always haunted by idle clerks, and a motley crowd of gossips, on the Sab- bath, and -to these the irruption of two young bloods from the city, was a slight break in the mo- notony of their slow shuffling jog toward perdi- tion; and whlen the fine gentlemen began 'to get drunk and noisy it was really quite interesting. A group gathered round the bar, and through the open door could see into the dining-room. Soon with unsteady step, Van Dam and Elliot joined them, the latter brandishing an empty bottle, and calling in a thick loud voice,- "Here landlord (hic) open a bottle (hic) of wine, for these poor (hic) suckers.(hic) I don't sup. pose (hic) they ever tasted (hic) anything better than corn whiskey' (hic) But I'll moisten (hic) their gullets to-day (hic) with a gentleman's drink." The crowd was mean enough, as the!oafers   WE CAN'T WYORK.      227 about a tavern usually are, to give a faint cheer in the prospect of a treat, evenr though accompa- nied with words- synonymous with a kick. Bat one big raw-boned fellow who looked equal to any amount of corn-whiskey, or anything else, could not swallow Gus's insolence, and stepped up say- ing,- 4' Look here Capen, I'm ready enough to drink with a chap when he asks me like a gentleman, but I feel more like puttin a head on you than drinkin' with yer." Gus had the false courage of wine and prided himself on his boxing. In the headlong fury of drunkenness he flung the bottle at the man's head, just grazing it, and sprang toward him, but stum. -bled and fell'. The man, with a certain rude sense of chivalry, waited for him to get up, but the mean loafers, who had cLeered were about to manifest their change of sentiment toward Gus, by kicking him in his prostrate condition. Van Dam, who also had drunk too much to be his cool careful self, now drew a pistol, and with a savage volley of oaths, swore he would shoot the first man who touched his friend. Then helping Gus up, he carried him off to a private room, and with the skill of an old experienced hand, set about righting himself and Elliot up so that they might; be in a presentable condition for their visit at the Allens. "Curse it all, Gus, why can you not keep with, in bounds? , If this gets to the girls' ears it may spoil everything."   228     WHA T CAV .SHE DO? By five o clock Gus had so far recovered as to venture to drive to the Aliens, and the fresh air restored him rapidly. Before leaving, the landlord said to Van Dam,- "You had better stay out there all night. From what I hear the boys are going to lay for you when you come home to-night. I don't want any rows connected with my house. I'd rather you wouldn't come back." Van Dam muttered an oath, and told the driver to go on. ' As a matter of course they were received very cordially. Gus was quite himself again. He only seemed a little more inclined to be sentimental and in higher spirits than usual. They walked again in the twilight through the garden and under the budding trees of the orchard. Gus assumed a caressing tone and manner, which Eaith half received and half resented. She felt that she did not know her own mind and did not understand him altogether, and so she took a diplo- matic middle course that would leave her free to go forward or retreat. Zell, under the influence of 'Mr. Van Dam's flattering manner, walked in a beau. tiful but lurid dream. At last they all gathered in the parlor and, chatted and laughed over old times, On this Sabbath evening one of the officers of the church seeing that the Aliens had twice wor- shipped with them, felt that perhaps he ought to call and give some encouragement. As he came up the path he was surprised at the confused sound + . ; . S t f    WE CA rT WORK.      229 * of voices. With his hand on the door-bell he paused, and through an opening between the cur- tains saw the young men of whose bar-room per- formance he had happened to hear. Not caring to meet any of their ilk he went silently'away shaking his head with ill-omened significance. Of course the good man told his wife what sort of company their new neighbors kept, and whom didn't she tell? The evening grew late, but no carriage came from the village. "It's very strange," said Van Dam. "If it don't come you must stay all night," said Mrs. Allen graciously. "We can make you quite corrfortable evren if we have a little house." 'Mr. Van Dam, and Gus also, were profuse in their thanks. Edith bit her lip with vexation. She felt that gentlemen who to the world would seem so intimate with the family, in reality held no relation, and that she and Zell were being placed in a false position. But no scruples of prudence occurred to thoughtless Zell. With an arch look toward her lover she said,- "I think it threatens rain so of course you can- I ot go." "Let us go out and see," he said. In the darkness of the porch he put his arm-. around and drew the unresisting girl to him, but he did not- say like a true man, "Zell, be my wife." But poor Zell thought that was what all his attention and -show of affection meant.   230     WHA T CAN SHE DO? Edith and Gus joined them, and the latter thought also to put his regard in the form of ca. ressing action, rather than in honest outspoken Words, but she turned and said a little sharply,- "You have no right." "Give me the right then," he whispered. ( Whether I shall ever do that I cannot say. It depends somewhat on yourself. But I cannot now and here." The warning hand of Van Dam was reached through the darkness and touched Gus' arm. The next morning they walked back to the village, were driven two or three miles to the near- ,est railway station, and took the train to the city, having promised to come again soon. The week following their departure was an eventful one to the inmates of the little cottage, and all unknown the most unfavorable influences were at work against them. The Sunday hangers on of a tavern have their points of contact with the better classes, and gossip is a commodity always in demand, whatever brings it to market. Therefore the scenes in the dining and bar-rooms, in which Mrs. Allen's " friends" had played so prominent a part were soon portrayed in hove) and mansion alike, with, such exaggerations and distortions as a story inevitably suffers as passed along. The part acted by the young men was certainly bad enough, but rumor made it much worse. Then this stream of gossip was met by another coming from the wife of the good man,   iWE CAN'T WORK.      231 lwho had called with the best intentions Sunday evening, but pained at the nature of the Allens, associations, had gone lamenting to his wife, and she had gone lamenting to the majority of the elder ladies of the church. These two streams uniting, quite a tidal wave of "Iwant to knows," and " painful surprises," swept over P-ushton, and then-Allens suffered twofully through their friends. They had already received some recon-" noltering calls, and a few from people who wanted to be neighborly. But the truth was the people of Pushton had been somewhat perplexed. They did not know where to put the Allens. The fact that Mr. Allen had been a rich merchant, and lived on Fifth Avenue, counted for something. But then even the natives of Pushton knew that all kinds of people lived on Fifth Avenue, as else. where, and that some of the most disreputable were the richest. A clearer credential than that was therefore needed. Then again there was another puzzle. The fact that Mr. Allen had failed,'and that they lived in a little house indica- ted poverty. But their style of dressing and order- ing from the store also suigested considerable property left. The humbler portion of the com- munity doubted whether they were the style of people for them to call on, and the rumor of Rose Lacey's treatment getting abroad in spite of Ar. den's injunction to the contrary, confirmed these doubts, and alienated this class. The more wealthy and fashionably inci led, doubted the grounds for   232 -     VHA T CAAr SHE DO? their calling, having by no means made up their minds whether they could take the Allens into their exclusive circle. So thus far Mrs. Allen and her daughters had given audience to a sort of mid- dle class of skirmishers and scouts representing no one in particular save themselves, who from a pen. chant in that direction went out and obtained infor- mation, so that the more solid ranks behind could know what to do. In addition, ss we'have intimated, there were a few good kindly people who said,- "' These strangers have come to live among us, and we must give them a neighborly welcome." But there was something in their homely hon- est heartiness that did not suit Mrs. Allen's arti- ficial taste, and she rather snubbed them. "Heaven deliver us soon from Pushton, she said, 6" if the best people have no more air of quality than these outlandish tribes. They all look and act as if they had come out of the ark." If the Aliens had frankly and patiently accepted their poverty and misfortunes, and by close economy and some form of labor had sought to maintain an honest independence they could soon through this latter class, have become en rapport with, not the wealthy and fashionable, but the finest people of the community; people having the refinement, intelligence, and heart to make the best friends we can possess. It might take some little time. It ought to. Social recogiition and esteem should be earned. Unless strangers bring clear letters of credit, or established reputation, they must expect            . ,   WE CAN'T WORK.       233 to be put on probation. But if they adopt a course of simple sin erity and dignity, and especially one of great pridence, they are sure to find the right sort of friends, and win the social position to which they are justly entitled. But let the finger of scandal and doubt be pointed toward them, -and all having sons and daughters will stand aloof on the I ground of self-protection, if nothing else. The taint of scandal, like the taint of leprosy, causes a general shrinking away. The finger of doubt and scandal in Pushton was now most decidedly pointed toward the Aliens. It was reported around,- "Their father was a Wall street gambler who lost all in a big speculation and died suddenly or committed suicide. They belonged to the ultra fast fashionable set in New York, and the events of the past Sabbath show that they are not the persons for self-respecting people to associate with." Some of the rather dissipated clerks and semi- loafers of the village were inclined to make the ac- quaintance of such stylish handsome girls, but the Aliens received the least advance from them with ineffable scorn. Thus within the short space of a month Mrs. Allen had, by her policy, contrived to isolate her family as completely as if they had a pestilence. Even Mrs. Lacey and Rose were inclined to pass from indignation to contempt; for Mr. Lacey was present at the scene in the bar-room, and reported that the " two young bucks were friends of -their   234     WHA T CAN SHE Do?  new neighbor3, the Allens, and had staid there all Sunday-night because they darsn't go back to town."  s( Well," said Rose, " with all their airs, I haven't got to keeping company with that style of men yet." "Cease to call yourself my sister if you ever do knowingly," said Arden sternly. "I don't believe Edith Allen knows the character of these men. t'hey would not report themselves, and who is to do it?" "Perhaps you had better," said Rose mali- ciously. Arden's only answer was a dark frowning look. A severe conflict was progressing in his mind.- One impulse was to regard Edith as unworthy of an- other thought. But his heart pleaded for her, and the thought that she was different from the rest, and capable of developing a character as beautiful as her person, grew stronger as he dwelt upon it. Like myself she is related to others that drag-- her down, he thought, and she seems to have no friend or brother to protect or warn her. 9 Even if this over-dressed young fool is her lover, if she could have seen him prostrate on the bar-room floor, she would never look at him again. If so I would never look at her. His romantic nature became impressed with the idea that he might become in some sense her un- known knight and protector, and keep her from marrying a man that would sink to what his father   WE CAA'rT WORK.  .    35 ?was. Therefore he passed the house as often as he could in hope that there might be some opportu- nity of seeing her. To poor Edith, troubles thickened fast, for as we have seen, the brunt of everything calne on her. Early on the forenoon of Monday the carpenter appeared asking with a hard determined tone, for his money, adding with satire,- "I suppose it's all right of course. 'People who want everything done at once must expect to pay promptly." "Your bill is much too large-much larger than yoU gave us any reason to suppose it would be,' said - Edith. "I've only charged you regular rates, Miss, and you put me to no little inconvenience besides.' "That's not the point. It's double the amount you gave us to understand it would be, and if you should deduct the camage caused by your delay, it would greatly reduce it. I do not feel willing that this bill should be paid as it stands."  "Very well then," said the man, coolly rising. "You threatened me with a lawyer, I'll let my lawyer settle with you." 'Edith,' said Mrs. Allen majestically, "bring rry check-book." "Don't pay it, mother. He can't make us pay such a bill in view of the fact he left our roof open in the rain." "Do as I bid you," said Mrs. Allen impressively. 4There," she said to the chuckling builder, in ^            - ,     236    W' AT CAN SHE DO? lofty scorn, throwing toward him a check as if it were dirt. ' Now leave the presence of ladies whom you don't seem to know much about." The man reddened and went out muttering that "he had seen quite as good ladies before." Two days later a letter from Mrs. Allen's bank brought dismay by stating that she had overdrawn her account. The next day there came a letter from their lawyer saying that a messenger from the bank had called upon him--that he was sorry they had spent all their money-that he could not sell the stock he held at any price now-and they had better sell their house in the country and board. This Mrs. Allen was inclined to do, but Edith said almost fiercely,- "I won't sell it.' I am bound to have some place of refuge in this hard pitiless world. I hold the deed of this property, and we certainly can get something to eat off of it, and if we must starve, no one at least can disturb us."' "What can we do," said Mrs. Allen. crying and wringing her hands. "We ought to have saved our money and gone to work at something,/' answered Edith sternly. "I am not able to work," whined Laura. "I don't know how to work, and I won't starve either," cried Zell passionately "I shall write to Mr. Van Dam this very day and tell him all about it." "I would rather work my fingers off," retorted   WE CAALT WORK.        237 Edith scornfully, '"than have 'a man come and marry me out of charity, finding me as helpless as if I were picked up off the street, and on the street we would soon be without shelter or friends if we sold this place." And so the blow fell upon them, and such was the spirit with which they bore it.  CHAPTER XV. THE TEMPTATIONS THE same mail brought them a long bill from Mr. Hard, accompanied with a very polite but decisive note saying that it was his custom to have a monthly settlement with his customers. The rest of the family looked with new dismay and helplessness at this, and Edith added bitterly, "There are half a dozen other bills also." "What can we do?" again Mrs. Allen cried piteously. "If you girls had only accepted some of your splendid offers--" "Hush, mother," said Edith imperiously. '"I have heard that refrain too often already," and the resolute practical girl went to her r4bm and shut herself up to think. Two hours later she came down to lunch with the determined air of one who had come to a con- clusion. "These bills must be met or in part at least," she said, "and the sooner the better. After that we must buy no more than we can pay for, if it's only a-crust of bread. I shall take the first train to-morrow, and dispose of some of my jewelry, Who of you will contribute some also? We all have more than we shall ever need."   THE TEMPTA TION.       239 "Pawn our jewelry!" they all shrieked. "No, sell it," said Edith firmly. "You hateful creature," sobbed Zell, "if Mr. Van Dam heard it he would never come near me again." "If he's that kind of a man, he had better not,' was the sharp'retort. "I'll never forgive you, if you do it. You shall not spoil all my chances and your own too. He as good as offered himself to me, and I insist on your giving me a chance to write to him before you take one of your mad steps." -They all clamored against her purpose so strong- ly that Edith was borne down and reluctantly gave way. Zell wrote immediately a touching pathetic letter that would have moved a man of one knight- ly instinct to come to her rescue. Van Dam read it with a look of fiendish exultation, and calling on Gus, said,-- " We will go up to-morrow. The right time has come. They won't be nice as to terms any longer." It was an unfortunate thing for Edith that she had yielded at this time to the policy of waiting one hour longer. In the two days that intervened before the young men appeared there was time for that kind of thought that tempts and weakens. She was in that most dangerous attitude of irreso- lution. The toilsome path of independent labor looked very hard and thorny-more than that it looked lonely. This latter aspect causes multitudes W n         240     WHAT CAN SHE DO? to shrink, where'the work would not. She knew enough of society to feel sure that her mother was right, and that the moment she entered on bread winning by any form of honest labor, her old fash- ionable world was lost to her forever. And she knew of no other world, she had no other friends save those of the gilded past. She did not with her healthful frame and energetic spirit, shrink so much from labor as from association with the la- boring classes. She had been educated to think of them only as coarse and common, and to make no distinctions. "Even if a few are good and intelligent as these Laceys seem, they can't understand my feelings and past life, so there will be no congeniality, and I shall have to work practically alone. Perhaps in time I shall become coarse and common like the rest," she said with a half shudder at the thought of old fashioned garb, slipshod dressing, and long monotonous hours at one thing. All these were inseparable in her mind from poverty and labor. Then after a long silence, during which she had sat with her chin resting on her hands, she con- tinued,-- "I believe I could stand it if-I could earn a support out of the garden with such a man as Malcom to help me. There is variety and beauty there, and scope for constant improvement. But I fear a woman can't make a livelihood by such out of door, man-like work. Good heavens! what will my Fifth Avenue friends say if it should get to their f   THE TEMPTATION.      241 ears that Edith Allen is raising cabbage for mar- ket."  Then in contrast, as the alternative to labor, Gus Elliot continually presented himself. "If he were only more' of a man,? she thought, "but if he loves so well as to marry me in view of my poverty, he must have some true manhood about him. I suppose I could learn to love him- after a fashion, and I certainly like him as well as any one I know. Perhaps if I were with him to cheer, incite and scold, lie might become a fair business man after all." And so Edith in her helplessness and fear of work was tempted to enter on that forlorn experi- ment which so many energetic women of decided character have made-that of marrying a man who can't stand alone, or do anything but dawdle, in the hope that they may be able to infuse some of their own moral and intellectual backbone. , But Gus Elliot -was not man enough, had not sense enough, to give her this poor chance of matrimonial escape frori labor that seemed to her like a giant taskmaster, waiting with grimy, horny hand to claim her as another of his innumerable slaves. Though a life of lonely, ill-paid toil would have been better for Edith, than marriage to Gus, he was missing the one golden opportunity of his life, when he thought of Edith Allen in other char. acter than his wife. God uses instruments and she alone could give him a chance of being a man   242     WHA T CAN SHE DO0 among men. In his meditated baseness toward her he aimed a fatal blow at his own life. And this is ever true of sins against the human brotherhood. The recoil of a blow  struck at another's interests, has often the vengeful wrath of heaven in it, and the selfish soul thlat would de.  stroy a fellow-creature for its own pleasure, is it- self destroyed. False pride, false education, helpless unskilled hands, an untaught, unbraced moral nature, made strong, resolute, beautiful Edith 'Alln so weak, so untrue to herself, that she was ready to throw hler- self away on so thin a shadow of a man as Gus El- liot. She might have known, indeed she half feared that wretchedness would follow such a union. It is torment to a large strong-souled woman to despise utterly the man to whom she is- chained. -His weakness and irresolution nauseates her, and the probabilities are that she will sink into that worst phase of feminine drudgery, the supporting of a husband, who though able, will not work, and become that social monster, of whom it is said with a significant lKugh,- "She is the man of the house." The only thing that reconciled her to the thought of marrying Gus was the hope that she could inspire him to better things and he seemed the only refige from the pressing troubles that en- vironed her and a lonely life of labor; for the thought that she could bring herself to marry among the laboring classes had never occurred to her   THE rEMPTA TION.43 243 So she came to the miserable conclusion on the- afternoon of the second day, "I'll take him if he will ne, knowing how I am situated."-- If' Gus could have been true and manly one evening- he might have secured a prop that would have kept him up tliough it would have been at sad cost to Edith. On the afternoon of Friday, Zei returned from the village with radiant face, iAnd waving a letter before Edith where she sat moping in her room exclaimed with a thrill of ecstacy in her tone,-, "They are coming. Help make me irresistible.' - Edith felt the contagion of Zell's excitement, and the mysteries of the toilet commenced. Na- ture had done much for these girls, and they knew how to enhance every charm by art. Edith good- naturedly helped her sister, weaving the pure shimmering pearls in the heavy braids of her hair, whose raven hue made the fair face seem more fair. The toilet-table of a queen had not the secrets of Zell's beauty, for the most skilful art must deal with the surface, while Zell's loveliness glowed from within. Her rich young blood man- tled her cheek with a color that came and went with her passing thoughts, and was- as unlike the flaming unchanging red of a painted face, as sun- light that flickers through a breezy grove differs from a gas-jet. Her eyes shone with the deep ex- citement of a passionate love, and the feeling that the crisis of her life was near. Even Edith gazed l  t    '    i44     WHAT CAW SHE DOI with wondering admiration at her beauty, as she gave' the finishing touches to her toilet, before she commenced her own. Discarded Laura had a sorry part in the poor little play. She was to. be ill and unable to appear, and so resigned herself to a novel and solitude. Mrs. Allen was to discreetly have a headache and retire early, and thus all embarrassing third par- ties should be kept out of the way. The late afternoon of Friday (unlucky. day for once) brought the gentlemen, dressed as exquisite- ly as ever, but the visions on the rustic little porch almost dazzled even their experienced eyes. They had seen these girls more richly dressed before and more radiant. There was, however, a delicious pensiveness hanging over them now, like those del- icate veils that enhance beauty and conceal noth- ing. And there was a deep undertone of excite- ment that gave them a magnetic power that they could not have in quieter moods. Their appearance and manner of greeting caus- -ed secret exultation in the black hearts that they expected would be offered to them that night, but Edith looked so noble as well as beautiful, that Gus rather trembled in view of his part in the pro- posed tragedy. As warm and gentle as had been her greeting, she did not appear like a girl that could be safely trifled with. However, Gus knew his one source of courage and kept up on brandy all day, and he proposed a heavier onslaught than ever on poor Mrs. Allen's wine. But Edith did f       ^ -?-  .  ^ +    THE TEMPTATION.      245 not bring it out. She meant that all that was said that night should be spoken in sober earnest. They sat down to cards for a while after tea, during which conversation was rather forced, con' sisting mainly of extravagant compliments from the gentlemen, and tender, meaning glances which the girls did not resent. Mrs. Allen languidly joined them for a while, and excused herself say- ing,-- "Her poor head had been' too heavily taxed of late," though how, save as a small distillery of helpless tears, we do not remember. The regret of the young men at being depriv- ed of her society -as quite affecting in view of the fact that they had often wished her dead and out of the way. "Why should we shut ourselves up within walls this lovely spring evening, this delicious earn- est of the coming summer," said Mr. Van Dam to Zell. "Come, put on your shawl and show me your garden by moonlight." Zell exultingly complied, believing that now she would show him, not their poor little garden, but the paradise of requited love. A moment later her graceful form, bending like a willow toward him, vanished in the dusky light of the rising moon, down the garden path which led to the little arbor. Gus having the parlor to himself, went over to the sofa, seated hims;elf by the side of Edith and sought to pass his arm around her waist.   246     WHA T CAN SItE DO  : You have no right," again said Edith with dignity, shrinking aw ay. "But will you not give the right? Behold me a suppliant at your feet," said Gus tenderly, butx' comfortably keeping his seat. "Mr. Elliot,' said Edith earnestly, " do you re.:.- ize that you are asking a poor girl to marry you?" "Your own beautiful self is beyond all gold,"' said Gus gushingly. "You did not think so a month ago," retorted Edith bitterly. "I was a fool. My friends discouraged it, but I find I cannot live without you." This, sounded well to poor Edith, but she said half sadly,-- "Perhaps your friends are right. You cannot afford to marry me."' "But I cannot give you up,' said Gus with much/show of feeling. "What would my life be without you?"I admit to you that my friends are opposed to my marriage, but am I to blight my life for themn? - Am I, who have seen the best of New York for years, to give up the loveliest girl I have ever seen in it? I cannot and I will not," con. ecluded Guts tragically. "And are you willing to give up all for me? said Edith feelingly, her glorious eyes becoming gentle a:ld tender. "Yes, if you will give up all for me," said Gus languishingly, taking her hand and drawing her toward him. ,   THE TEMPA TON.        247 , .              .247 Edith did not resist now, but leaned her head on his shoulder with the blessed sense of rest and at least partial security. Her cruelly harassed heart and burdened, threatened life could welcome even such poor shelter as Gus Elliot offered. The spring evening was mild and breathless and its hush and peace seemed to accord with her feelings. There was no ecstatic thrilling of her heart in the divine rapture of mutual and open  t recognition of love, for no such love existed on her part. It was only a languid feeling of con- tentment, moon-lighted with sentiment, not sun- lighted with joy, that she had found some one who would not leave her to labor and struggle alone.          -          t "Gus," she said pathetically, " we are very poor, we have nothing. We are almost desperate from want. Think twice ere you engage yourself to a girl so situated.  Are you able to thus burden yourself?"        1 Gus thought these words led the way to the carrying out of Van Dam's instructions, for he said eagerly,- "I know how you are situated. I learned all from Zell's leIter to Van Dam, but our hearts only cling the closer to you, and you must let me take care of you at once. If you will only consent to a secret marriage I can manage it." Edith slowly raised her head from his shoulder Gus could not meet her eyes, but felt them search. ingly, on his face. There was a distant mutter of   ?48     tPWHA T CAN' SHE DO! thunder like a warning voice. He continued hur. riedly,-- "I think you will agree with me, when you think of it, that such a marriage would be best. It would be hard for me to break with my family at once. Indeed I could not afford to anger my father now. But I would soon get established in business myself, and I would work so hard if I knew that you were dependent on me.' "Then you would wish me to remain here in obscurity your wife," said Edith in a low con- strained tone that Gus- did not quite like. t' Oh, no, not for the world," replied Gus hur. riedly. "It is because I so long for your daily and hourly presence that I urge you to come to the city at once." "What is your plan then?" asked Edith in the same low tone. "Go with me to the city, on the boat that passes here in the evening. I will see that you are lodged where you will have every comfort, yes luxury. We can there be quietly married, and when the right time comes, we can openly acknowl- edge it."  There was a tremnble in Edith's voice when she again spoke, it might be from feeling, mere excite- ment, or anger. At any rate Gus grew more and more uncomfortable. He had a vague feeling that Edith suspected his falseness, and that her seeim ing calmness might presage a storm, and he found it impossible to meet her full searching gaze,   TME TEMfAT4TW       S AQ fcating that his face would betray him. He was bad enough for his project, but not quite brazen enough. She detached nerself from his encircling arn, went to a book-stand near and took from it a richly bou nd Bible. With this she came and stood before Gus who was half trembling with fear and perplexi, ty, and said in a tone so grave and solemn, that his weak impressible nature was deeply moved,-- "Mr. Elliot, perhaps I do not understand you. I have received several offers before, but never-one liltke yours this evening. Indeed I need not re- mind you that you have spoken to me in a differ- ent vein. I know circumstances have greatly altered with me. That I am  no longer thie daughter of a millionaire, I am learning to my sor- row, but I am the same Edith Allen that you knew of old. I would not like to misjudge you, one of my oldest, most intimate friends of the happy past. And yet, as I have said. I do not quite understand your offer. Place your hand on this sacred book with me, and as you hope for God's mercy, answer me this truly. Would you wish your own sister to accept such an offer, if she were situated like my- self? Look me, an honest girl with all my faults and poverty, in the face, and tell me as a true brother." Gus-felt himself in an awful dilemma. Some- thing in Edith's solemn tone and manner convian ced him that both he and Van Dam had misjudged her. His knees trembled so that he could scarcely in* II*    - '          .   250     WHAT CAN SHE DO t rise. A fascination that he could not resist drew his face, stamped with guilt, toward her, and slowly he raised his fearful eyes and for a moment met Edith's searching, questioning gaze, then dropped them in confusion. "Why do you not put your hand on the book and speak?" she asked in the low concentrated voice of passion. Again he looked hurriedly at her. A flash of lightning illumined her-features, and he quailed before an expression such as he had never seen be- fore on any woman's face. "H-cannot," he faltered. The Bible dropped from her hands, they clasp- ed, and for a moment she seemed to writhe in ag- ony, and in a low shuddering tone she said,- "There,are none to trust-not one." Then as if possessed by a sudden fury, she seiz; ed him roughly by the arm and said hoarsely,- A Speak, man, what then did you mean? What have all your tender speeches and caressing actions meant?"       * Her face grew livid with rage and shame as the truth dawned upon her, while poor feeble Gus lost his poise utterly and stood like a detected criminal before her. "You asked me to marry you," she hissed. "Must no one ask ypur immaculate sisters- to do this, that you could not answer my simple ques- tion? Or, did you mean something else? ljlow dare you exist longer in the semblance of a man?   THE TEMPTA TICN.      25 You have broken the sacred law of hospitality, and here in my little home that has sheltered you, you purpose my destruction. You take mean advan- tage of my poverty and trouble, and like a coward- ly hunter must seek out a wounded doe as your game. My grief and tnisfortune should have made a sanctuary about me, but the orphaned and un- fortunate,'God's trust to all true'men, only invite your evil designs, because defenceless. Wretch, would you have made nie this offer if my father had lived, or if I had a brother?" "It's all Van Dam's work, curse him," groaned Gus, white as a ghost. "Van Dam's work!" shrieked Edith, "and he's with Zell! So thiy is a conspiracy. You both are the flower of chivalry," and her mocking, half- hysterical laugh curdled Gus' blood, as her dress fluttered down the path that led to the arbor. She appeared in the doorway like a sudden, supernatural vision. Zell's head rested -on Mr. Van Dam's shoulder, and he was portraying in low,ardent tones the pleasures of city life, which would be hers as his wife. "It is true," he had said, " our marriage 'must be secret for the present. You must learn to trust me. But the time will soon come when I can ac- knowledge you as my peerless bride." Foolish little Zell was too eager to escape pres. ent miseries io be nice and critical as to the cone ditions, and too much in love, too young and un. suspecting to doubt the man who had petted her   Z52     . WHi AT CA aH fO t from a child. She agreed to do. anything he thought best. Then Edith's entrance and terrible words broke her pretty dream in fragments. Snatching her sister from Van Dam's embrace, she cried passionately,- "Leave this place. Your villany is discover. "Really, Miss Edith"--began Var Dam with a poor show of dignity. "Leave instantly!" cried Edith imperiously, "Do you wish me to strike you?" "Edith, are you mad?" cried Zell. "Your sister must have lost her reason," said Van Dam, approaching Zell. "'Stand back," cried Edith sternly. "I may go mad before this hateful night passes, but while I have strength and reason left, I will drive the wolves from our fold. Answer me this: have you not been proposing secretL-narriage to my sister?" Her face looked spirit-like in the pale moonlight and her eyes blazed like coals of fire. As she stood there with her arm around her bewildered trembling sister, she seemed a guardian angel holding a baf- fled fiend at bay.        t This was literally true, for even hardened Van Dam  quailed before her, and took refuge in the usual rescurce of his satanic ally-lies. "I assure you, Miss Edith, you do me great ina justice. I have only asked your sister that out marriage be private for a time- " :,    5       ,     - THE TEMP.:TA TION. "The same wretched bait--the same transpa- rent falsehood," Edith cried.. "We. cannot be married openly at our own home, but must go away with you, two spotless knights, to New York. Do you take us for silly fools? You know well what the world would say of ladies that so com- promised themselves, and no true man would ask this of a woman he meant to make his wife. These premises are mine. Leave them." Van Dam was an old villain who -had lived life long in the atmosphere of brawls and intrigue,  - therefore he said brazenly,- "There is no use of wasting words on an angry woman. Zell, my darling, do me justice. Don't give me up, as I never shall you," and he vanished on the road toward the village, where Gus was skulking on before him. "You weak unmitigated fool," said he savagely, "' why did I bring you?'  "Look here, Van Dam," whined Gus, "that isn't the way to speak to a gentleman." "Centleman! ha, ha," laughed Van Dam bit. terly. , "I be hanged if I feel like one to-night. A  : pretty scrape you have got me into," snarled Gus. "Well," said Van Dam cynically. "I thoughlt I was too old to learn much more, but you may shoot me if I ever go on a lark -again with, one of your weak villains who is bad enough for anything, but has brains enough only to get found out. If it hadn't been for you I would have carried my point. t,  ' - . .-.: ,..-    254     WHA T CAN SHE DO? And I will yet," he ajdded with an oath. "I never give up the game I have once started."' And so they plodded on with mutual revilings and profanity, till Gus became afraid of Van Dam, and was silent. The dark cloud that had' risen unnoted in the south, like the slowly gathering and impending wrath of God, now broke upon them in sudden gusts, and then chased thep with pelting torrents of rain and stinging hail, into the village. The sin- wrought chaos-the hellish discord of their evil natures seemed to have infected the peaceful spring evening, for now the very spirit of the storm ap- peared abroad. The rush and roar of the wind was so strong, the lightning so vivid, and the crashing thunder peals overhead so terrific, that even hard- ened Van Dam was awed, and Gus was so frighten- ed and conscience smitten, that he could scarcely keep up- with his- companion, but shuddered at the thought of being left alone. At last they reached the tavern, roused the startled landlord and obtained welcome shelter. "What!" he said, " are the boys after you?" "No, no," said Van Dam  impatiently, " the devil is after us in this infernal storm. Give us two rooms, a fire, and some brandy as soon as pos- sible, and charge what you please." When Gus viewed himself in the mirror, as he at once did from long habit, his haggard face, drenched, mud-splashed form, awakened sincere self commiseration; and his stained, bedraggled   THE TErMPTA TION.      25S lothes troubled him more than his soiled character. He did not remember the time when he had not been well dressed, and to be so was his religion- the sacred instinct of his life. Therefore he was inexpressibly shocked, and almost ready to cry, as he saw his forlorn reflection in the glass. And he had no change with him. What should he do? All other phases of the disastrous night were lost in this. "There is nothing to be bought in this mean little town, and how can I go to the city in this plight," he anxiously queried. "i Go to the devil then," and the sympathetic Van Dam wrapped himself up and went to sleep. Gus worked fussily at his clothes till a late hour, devoutly hoping he would meet no one that he knew before reaching his dressing-room in New York.   CHAPTER XVI. BLACK HANNIBAL'S WHTE HEART. E DITH half led, half carried her sobbing sister to the parlor. Mrs. Allen, no longer languid, and Laura from her exile, were already there, and gath- ered with dismayed faces around the sofa where she placed Zell. "What has happened?" asked Mrs. Allen tremblingly. Edith's self-control, now that her enemies were gone, gave way utterly, and sinking on the floor, she swayed back and forth, sobbing even more hys- terically than Zell, and her mother and Laura, op. pressed with the sense of some new impending dis- aster, caught the contagion of their bitter grief, and wept and wrung their hands also. The frightened maid stood in one door, with ter white questioning face, and old grey-haired Hanni- bal in another with streaming eyes of honest sym- pathy. "Speak, speak, what is the matter?" almost shrieked Mrs. Allen. Edith could not speak, but Zell sobbed, I don't- know. Edith--seems to have--gone-- mad,"   BLACK HANNIBAL'S WHTE HEART.     257 At last, after the application of restoratives Edith so far recovered herself to say brokenly,- "We've been   betrayed- they're- villains. FThey never-meant-marriage at all." , "That's false!" screamed Zell. "I won't be- lieve it of my lover, whatever may have been true of your mean little Gus ElliQt. He promised to marry me, and you have spoiled everything by your mad folly. I'll never forgive you."-When Zell's wild fury would have ceased, cannot be said, but a new voice startled and awed them into silence. In the storm of sorrow and passion that raged with- in, the outer storm had risen unnoted, but now an awful peal of thunder broke over their heads and rolled away among the hills in deep reverberations. 'Another and louder crash soon followed, and a sol- emn expectant silence fell upon them akin to that when the noisy passionate world will suddenly cease its clamor as the trump of God proclaims the end. "Merciful heaven, we shall be struck,"; said Mrs. Allen shudderingly. "What's the use of living? said Zell- in a hard reckless tone. "What is there to live for?" sighed Edith, deep in her heart. ' There are none to be trusted -not one." Instead of congratulations received with blush ing happiness, and solitaire engagement rings, thus is shown the first result of Mrs. Allen's policy, and' of society's injunction,--   258     WZiAT CAN SHE s DOJ i' Keep your hands white, my dears." The storm passed away, and they crept off to such poor rest as they could get, too miserable to speak, and too worn to renew the threatened quar. rel that-a voice from heaven seemingly had inter. rupted. The next morning they gathered at a late break- fast table with haggard faces and swollen eyes. Zell looked, hard and sullen, Edith's face was so determined in its expression as to be stern. Mrs. Allen lamented feebly and indefinitely, Laura only appeared more settled in her apathy, and with Zell and Edith, was utterly silent through the forlorn meal. After it was over, Zell went up to her room and Edith followed her. Zell had not spoken to her sister since the thunder peal had suddenly checked her bitter words. Edith dreaded the alienation she saw in Zell's face, and felt wronged by it, knowing that she had only acted as truest friend and protector. But in order still to shield her sister she must secure her confidence, or else the danger averted the past evening, would threaten as grimly as ever. She also realized how essential Zell's help would be in the struggle .for bread on which they must enter, and wished to obtain her hearty co/operatior in some plan of:work. She saw that labor now was inevitable, and must be com. menced immediately. From Laura she hoped little. She seemed so lacking in force mentally and physically, since their troubles began, that ssw   BLACK HAN.4 BAL'S WHTE HEART.   259 feared nothing could arouse her. She threatened soon to become an invalid like her mother. The thought of help from the latter, did not even occur to her. Edith had not slept, and as the chaos and bit- terness of the past evening's experience passed away, her practical mind began to concentrate it- self on the problem of support. Her disappoint- ment had not been so severe as that of Zell, by any means, and so she was in a condition to rally much sooner. She had never much more than liked El- liot, and now the very thought of him was nauseat- ing, and though labor and want might be hard in- deed, and regret for all they had lost keen, still she was spared the bitterer pain of a hopeless love. But it was just this that Zell feared, and though she repeated to herself over and over again Van Dam's last words, "I will never give you up," she feared that he would, or whiat would be equally painful, she would be compelled to give him up, for she could not disguise it from herself that her con- fidence had been shaken. But sincere love is slow to believe evil of its ob- ject. If Van Dam had shown preference for anoth. er, Zell's jealousy and anger would have known no bounds, but this he had never done, and she could not bring herself to believe that the man whom she had known since childhood, who had always treat . ed hler with uniform kindness and most flattering. attention, who had partaken of their hospitality so often and intimately that he almost seemed like , ; ?- V v - . ,   260     WHA- T CA N SHE DOP one of the family, meditated the basest evil against her. a Gus Elliot is capable of arty meanness, but Edith was mistaken about my friend. And yet Edith has so insulted him, that I fear he will never come to the house again," she said with deep resentment. "If I had declined a private mar- riage, I am sure he would have married me openly." Therefore when Edith entered their little room Zell's face was averted and there was every evi- dence of estrangement. Edith meant to be kind and considerate, and patiently show the reasons for her action. She sat down and took her sister's cold impas- sive hand, saying,- "Zell, did I not help you dress in 'his very place last evening? Did I not wait against my judgment till Mr. Van Dam came? These things prove to you that I would not put a straw between you and a true lover. Surely we have trouble enough with- out adding the bitter one of division and estrange- ment. If we don't stand by each other now what will become of us? ' "What right had you to misjudge Mr. Van Dam by such a mean little scamp as Gus Elliot, Why did you not give him a chance to expl;liat himself?" "Oh Zell, Zell, how can you be so blinded? Did he not ask you to go away with him in the night-to elope, and then submit to a secret mar riage in New York?? '   BLACK HANNIBAL DS WiHTE HEART   251 "Well, he told me there were good reasons that made such a course necessary at present.    -/ "Are you George Allen's daughter that you could even listen to such a proposal? When you lived on Fifth Avenue would he have dared to have even faintly suggested such a thing? Can he be a true lover who insults Lou to begin with, and, in view of your misfortunes, instead of showing manly delicacy and desire to shield, demands not only hard but indecent conditions? Even if he, purposed to marry you, what right has he to re-. quire of you such indelicate action as would make your name a byword and hissing among all'your old acquaintances, and a lasting stain to your family? They would not receive you with respect again, though some might tolerate you and point you out as the girl so desperate for a husband, that you submitted to the grossest indignity to get one." Zell hung her head in shame and anger under Edith's inexorable logic, but the anger was now turning against Van Dam. Edith continued,- - "A lady should be sought and won. It is for her to set the place and time of the wedding, and dictate the conditions. It is for her to say who shall be present and who absent, and woman, to whom a spotless name is everything, has the right, which even savage tribes recognize, to shield her- self from the faintest imputation of immodesty by compelling her suitor to comply with the estab- lished custom and etiquette which are her safer guards. The daughter of a poor laborer would   262 e    WHA T CAN SHEE DO? demand all this as a matter of course, and shall the beautiful Zell Allen, who has had scores of admi- rers, have all this reversed in her case, and be comrn pelled to skulk away from the home in which she should be openly married, to hunt up a man at night who has made: the pitiful promise that he will marry her somewhere t sometime or other, on condition that no one shall know it till he is, ready? Mark it well, the man who so insults a lady and all her family, never means to marry her, or else he is so coarse and brutal in all his instincts, that no decent woman ought to marrylhim." "Say no more," said Zell in a low tone, "I fear you are right, though I would rather die than believe it. O, Edith, Edith!" she cried in sudden passionate grief. "My heart is broken. I loved him so. I could have been so happy." Edith took her in her arms and they cried together. At last Zell said languidly: "What can we do?" "We must go to work like other poor people. If we had only done so at first and saved every 'dollar we had left, we would not now be in our present deeply embarrassed condition. And yet Zell, if you, with your vigor and strength, will only stand by me, and help your best, we will see bright days yet. There must be some way by which two girls can make a livelihood here in Pushton, as elsewhere. We have at least a shelter, and I have great hopes of the garden." "I don't like a garden. I fear I couldn't do (   BLACK HANNIBAL'S WHTE HEART.    263 much there. And it seems like man's work too. I fear I shall be too wretched and ignorant to do anything." "Not at all. Youth, health, and time, against all the troubles of the world. (This was the best creed poor Edith then had.) Now,"' she contin- ued, encouragingly, You like housework. Of course we must dismiss our servants, and if you did the work of the house with Laura, so that I had all my time for something else, it would be a great saving and help." "Oh, dear! oh, dear! that we should ever come to this!" said Zell despairingly. "We have come to it, and must face the truth." "Well, of course 1 1 try," said Zell with some- thing of Laura's apathy. Then with a sudden burst of passion she clenched her little hands and cried: "I hate him, the cold-hearted wretch, to treat his poor little Zell so shamefully!" and she paced up and down the room with inflamed eyes and cheeks. Then in equally sudden revulsion she threw herself down on the floor with her head in her sister's lap,- and murmured, "God forgive me, I love him still-I love him with my whole h'eart," and sobbed till all her strength was gone. Edith sighed deeply. "Can she ever be de- pended on?" she thought. At last she lifted the languid form on the bed, threw over her an af- ghan and bafhed her head with cologne till the poor child fell asleep.   264   -  HA T CAN SHE. DOI Then she went down to Laura and her mother, to whom she explained more fully the events of last evening. Laura only muttered, "shamefuill," but Mrs. Alleh whirled, "She could not understand it. Girls didn't know how to manage any longer There must be some misunderstanding, for no young men in the city could have meant to offer such an insult to an old and respectable family like theirs/ She never heard of such a thing. If she could only have been present-" "Hush, mother," said Edith almost sternly. "It's all past now. I should gladly believe that when you were a young lady, such poor villains were not in good society. Moreover, such offers are not made to young ladies living on the Avenue. This is more properly a case for shooting than management. I have no patience to tall: any more about it. We must now try to conform to our 'altered circumstances, and at least maintain our self-respect, and secure the comforts of life if possible. But we must now practice the closest economy. Laura, you will have to be mother's maid, for of course we can keep no servants. I have a little money left, and will pay your maid to-day and let her go.' 1"I don't see how I can get along without her," said Mrsi Allen helplessly. ' You must," said Edith firmly. "We have no money to pay her any longer, and your daughters will try to supply her place." Mrs. Allen did not formally abdicate her natural   BIACK HANNIBAL'S g'H ITE HEART. 265 position as head of the family, but in the hour of almost shipwreck, Edith took the helm out of the feeble hands. Yet the young girl had little to guide her, no knowledge and experience worth mentioning, and the sea was rough and beset with dangets. The maid had no regrets at departure, and went away with something of the satisfaction of a rat leaving a sinking ship. But with old Hannibal it was a different affair. "You aint gwine to send me away too, is you, Miss Edie r " said he, with the accent of dismay. "My good old friend," said Edith feelingly, "the only friend I'm sure of in this great world full of people, I fear I must. We can't afford to pay you even half what you are worth any longer." "I'se sure I doesn't eat such a mighty lot," Hannibal sniffled out. "Oh, I hope we won't reach starvation point," said Edith, smiling in- spite of her sore heart. "But Hannibal, you are a valuable servant, besides, there are plenty of rich upstarts who would give you anything you would ask, just to have you come and give an old and aristocratic air to their freshy- gilded mansions."  "Miss Edie, you doesn't know nothin 'tall about my feelins. What's money to ole Hannibal! I'se lived among de millionaires and knows all about money. It only buys half of 'em a heap of trouble and doesn't keep dare hearts from gettin sore, When Maissa Allen was a livin', he Eaid me big,   266    . WHAT CAN SHE DO0 and guve me all de money I wanted, and if he at last, lost my mo-ley which he keep, it's no mome'n he did with his own. And now, Miss Edie, I toted you and you'se sisters round on my shoulder when you'se was babies, and I haint got nothin' left but you, no friends, no nothin'; and if you send me away, it's like goin' out into de wilderness. What 'ud I do in some strange man's big house, when my heart's here in de little house? My heart is all ole Hannibal has left, if 'tis black, and if you send me away you'se break it. I'd a heap rather stay here in Bushtown and starve to death with you alls, dan live in de grandest house on de Avenue." "Oh, Hannibal," said Edith, putting her hand on the old man's shoulder, and looking at him with her large eyes dimmed with grateful tears, "you don't know how much good you have done me. I have felt that there were none to trust-not one, but you are as true as steel. Your heart isn't black, as I told you before. It's whiter than mine. Oh, that other men were like you i " "Bress you, Miss Edie, I isn't a man, I'se only a nigger." "You are my   true and trusted friend," said Edith, "and you shall be one of the family as long as you wish to stay with us." "Now bress you, Miss Edie, you'se an angel for sayin' dat. Dong be afeard, I'se good- for sumpen yet, if I be old. I once work for fear in de South; den I work for money, and now I'se gwine to work n .     *  .  '  -i   BLACK HA NNIBA'S WHTE    EAR T.  267 for lub, and it 'pears I can feel my ole jints limber up at de thought. It 'pears like dat lub is de only ting dat; can make one young agin. Neber you fear, Miss Edie, we'll pull through, and I'se see you a-grand lady yet. A true lady you'se allers be, even if you went out to scrub." "Perhaps I'll have to, Hannibal. I know how to do that about as well as anything else that peo- ple are willing to pay for."  CHAPT-ER XVII. THE CIANGES OF TWO SHORT -MONTHS, A r the dinner table it was reluctantly admitted to be necessary, that Edith should go to the city in the morning and dispose of some of their jewelry. She went by the early train, and the familiar aspects of Fourth Avenue as she rode down town, were as painful as the features of an old friend turned away from us in estrangement. She kept her face closely veiled, hoping to meet no acquaintances, but some whom  she knew, unwit- tingly brushed against her. Her mother's last words were,- "Go to some store where we are not known, to sell the jewelry." Edith's usually good judgment seemed to fail her in this case as it generally does when we listen to the suggestions of false pride. She went to a jeweller down  town who was an utter stranger. The Tran's face to whom she handed her valuables for inspection, did not suggest pure gold that had passed through the refiner's fire, though he profess; ed to deal in that article. An  unknown lady, closely veiled, offering such rich articles for sale, 'looked suspicious, but whether it was right of wrong, there was a chance for him to make an ex-   THE CHAYNGES XO T0orSO stOR' MONTHS. ::i traordina'ry profit. Giving aA curious glance at Edith, who began to have .misgivings from the manner and appearance of the man, he swept the little cases up and took them to the back part of the store, on pretence -of wishing to consult his partner. Hie soon returned and said rather harsh- "I don't quite understand this matter, and we are not in the habit of doing this kind of business  It may be all right that you should offer this jew- elry, and it may not. If we take it, we must run the risk. We will give you"--offering scarcely- half its value. "I assure you it is all right," said Edith indig- nantly, at the same time with a sickening sensa- tion of fear, "It all belongs to us, but we are com- pelled to part with it from sudden need."  "That is about the way they all talk," said the man coolly. "We will give you no more than I said." "Then give me back my jewelry," said Edith, scarcely able to stand, through fear and shame. "I don't know about that. Perhaps I ought to call in an officer anyway and have the thing inves- tigated.  But I give you your choice, either to take .  this money, or go with a policeman before a justice and have the thing explained," and he laid the money before her. She shuddered at the thought. Edith Allen. in a police court, explaining why she was selling her jewelry, the gifts of her dead father, followed s , - c   :    ?   270     tHrA T CAN SHE DOI by a rabble in the street, her name in the papers, and she the town-talk and scandal of her old set on the Avenue! How Gus Elliot and Van- Danm  would exult! All passed through her mind in one dreadful whirl. She snatched up the money and rushed out with one thought of escape, and for some time after had a shuddering apprehension of being pursued and arrested. "Oh, if I had only gone to Tiffany's, where I am known,"' she groaned. "It's all mother's work. Her advice is always fatal, and I will never follow it again. It seems as if everthing and every body were against me,' and she plunged into the shelter ing throng of Broadway, glad to be a mere unre. cognized drop in its mighty'tide. But even as Edith passed out of the jeweller's store, her eye rested for a moment on the face of a man that she thought she had seen before, though she could nottell where, and the face haunted her, causing much uneasiness. "Could he have seen and know me?" she que ried most anxiously. He had done both.  1e'was no other than Tom Crowl, a clerk in the village at one of the lesser dry goods stores, where the Allelns had a small ac. count. He was one of the mean loafers who was present at the bar-room scene, and had cheered, and then kicked Gus Elliot, and " laid for hinm " in the evening with the " boys." He was one of the up- per graduates of Pushton street corners, and having spent an idle vicious boyhood, truant half the time t         W    *  .  ,  .^.-   THE CHANGES OF TWO SHORT MONTHS. 271 from school, had now arrived at the dignity of clerk in a store, that thrived feebly on the scatter- ing trade that filtered through and past Mr. Hard's     - larger establishment. He was one of the worst phases of the male gossip, and had the scent of a    buzzard for the carrion of scandal. The Aliens were, now the uppermost theme of the village, for there seemed some mystery about them. .Moreover the rural dabblers in vice had a natural jealousy of the more accomplished rakes from the city, which took on some of the air of a virtuous indignation against them. Of course the talk about Gus and Van Dam    passed on to the Aliens, and if poor Edith could have heard the surmises about them in the select coterie of clerks that gathered around Crowl after  closing hours, as the central fountain of gossip, she would have felt more bitterly than ever, that the    spirit of chivalry had utterly forsaken mankind. When therefore young Crowl saw Edith get on     tlie same train as himself, he determined to watch her, and startle, if possible, his small squad of ad- mirers with a new proof of his right to lead as       chief scandal-monger. The scene in the jewelry  store thus became a brilliant stroke of fortune to    him, though so severe a blow to Edith. (The num- ber of people who are like wolves that turn upon and . devour one of their kind when wounded is not small.) Crowl exultingly saw himself doubly the hero of  the evening in the little room of the loft over the  store, where poor Edith would be discussed that   evening over a black bottle and sundry clay pu>es.  272     WHA T -CAN SHE DO t All this miserable drivel would have been of lit, tle consequence, as far as the gossip itself was con. cerned, but the consequences of such gossip threat, ened to be most serious. As Edith returned up town toward the depot, the impulse to go and see her old home was very strong. She thought her veil sufficient protection to venture. - Slowly and with heavy step she passed up the well known street on the opposite side, and then crossed and passed down toward that door from which she had so often tripped in light-heart- ed gayety, or rolled away in a liveried carriage, the envied and courted daughter of a millionaire. And to-day she was selling her jewelry for bread- to-day she had narrowly, as she thought, escaped the Police Court--to-day she had no other pros- pect of support save her unskilled hands, and little more than two short months ago, that house was ablaze with light, resounding with mirth and music, and she and her sisters known among the wealth- iest belles of the city. It was like a horrid dream. It seemed as if she might see old Hannibal open- ing the door, and Zell chme tripping out, or Laura at the window of her room with a book, or the portly form of her father returning from business, indeed even herself, radiant with pride and pleasure, starting for an afternoon walk as of old. All seemed to look the same. Why was it not? Why could she not enter and be at home! Again she passed, A name on the door caught her eyes With a shudder of disgust and pain, she read,-   THE CHANGES OF TWO SHORT MONTHS. 273 "Uriah Fox." "So the villain lives in the home of which!be robbed us," she said bitterly. The world seems made for such. Old Hannibal was right. God lumps the world, but the devil seems to look after his friends and prosper them." She now hastened to the depot. The city had lost its attractions to her, in view of what she saw and suffered that day, and though inclined to feel hard and resentful at her fate, she was sincerely thankful that she had a quiet home in the country where at least the false-hearted and cruel could be kept away. She saw during the day several faces that she knew, but none recognized her, and she realized how soon our wide circle of friends forget us, and how the world goes on just the same after we have vacated the large space we suppose we occupy. She reached home in the twilight, weary and despondent. Her mother asked eagerly, "Did you meet anyone you knew?" as if this were the all important question. "Don't speak to me,"' said Edith impatiently. "'I'm half dead with fatigue and trouble. Hanni- bal, please give me a cup of tea, and then I will go to bed." "But Edith," persisted Mrs. Allen querulously, 'did you see any of our old set? I hope you didn't take the jewelry where you were known." Eqdith's overtaxed nerves gave way, and slb said sharply,-        \  . .   274     WHA T CAN SHE DO  "No, I did not go where I was known, as I ought, and therefore have been robbed, and might have been in jail myself to-night. I will never tol- low your advice agairn. It has brought nothing but trouble and disaster. I have had enough of your silfy pride and its results. What practical harm would it have done me, if I had met all the persons I know in the city? By going where I was not known I lost half my jewelry, and was insulted and threatened with great danger in the bargain. If I 'had gone to Tiffany's, or Ball and Black's, where I am known, I would have been treated politely and obtained the full value of what I - offered. I can't even forgive myself for being such a fool. But I have done with your ridiculous false pride forever. We've all got to go to work at once like other poor people, or starve, and I intend to do it openly. I am sick of that meanest of all lies, a shabby keeping up of appearances." These were harsh words for a daughter to speak to her mother, under'any provocation, and even Zell said,- "Edith you ought to be ashamed of yourself to speak to mother so." "I think so too," said Laura, "I'm sure she meant everything for the best, and she took the course which is taken by the majority in like cir- cumstances." "All the worse for the majority then, if they fare any thing as we have done. The division of labor in this family seems to he that I am to do   THE CHANGES OF T WO SffORT MONTHS. 275 all the work, and bear the brunt of everything, and the rest sit by and criticise, or make more trouble. . You have all got to do something now or go hun- gry," and Edith swallowed her tea, and went frown- Ingly away to her room. She was no saint, to be- gin with, and her over-taxed mind and body re- venged themselves in nervous irritation. But her young and healthful nature soon found in sound sleep, the needed restorative. Mrs. Allen, shed a few helpless tears, and Lau- ra wearily watched the faint flicker on the hearth, for the nighlt was chilly. Zell went into the din- ing-room and- read for the twentieth time, a letter received that day. Unknown to Edith, the worst disaster yet had occurred in her absence. Zell went to the village for the mail. She would not admit, even to her- self, that she hoped for a letter from one who had acted so poor a part as her false lover, and yet, con- trolled so much more by her feelings and impulses than either reason or principle, it was with a thrill of joy that she recognized the familiar handwriting. The next moment she dropped her veil to conceal her burning blush of shame. She hastened home with- a wild tumult at heart. "I will read it, and see what he says for him- self," she said, " and then will write a withering answer;"  But as Van Dam's ardent words and plausible excuses burned themselves into her memory, her weak foolish heart relented and she half believed *   *             '   276     WHrAT CAN SHE DOt he was wronged by Edith after all. The withering answer became a queer jumble of tender reproaches and pathetic appeals, and ended by saying that if he would marry her in her own home it all might be as secret as he desired, and she would wait his convenience for acknowledgment. -She- also did another wrong- and imprudent thing; for she told him to direct his reply to another office about a mile from Pushton, for she dreaded Edith's anger should her correspondence be discovered. The wily, unscrupulous man gave one of his satanic leers as he read the letter. "'The game will soon be mine," he chuckled, and he wrote proMrptly in return. t "In your request and reproaches, I see the in- fluence of another mind. Left to yourself you would not doubt me. And yet such is my love for you, I would comply with your request were it not for what passed that fatal evening. My feelings and honor as a man forbid my ever meeting your sister- again till she has apologized. She never liked me, and always wronged me with doubts. Elliot acted like a fool and a villain, and I have nothing more to do with him. But your. sister, in her anger and excitement, classed me with him. When you have been my loved and trusted wife for some length of time, I hope your family will do me justice. When you are here with me you will soon see why our marriage must be private for the present. You have known me since you were a child. I will be true to my -word an will 'do exactly as I agreed. I will meet you an evening   THE CHANGES OF TWO aSHORT MONTS. 2" you wish on the down boat. Awaiting your reply with an anxiety which only the deepest love can inspire, I remain Your slave, GUILLIAN VAN DAM., Such was the false, but plausible missive that was . aimed as an arrow at poor little Zell. There was nothing in her training or education and little in her character to shield her. Moreover the increasing miseries of their situation were Van Dam's allies. Edith rose the next morning greatly refreshed, and her naturally courageous nature rallied to meet the difficulties of their position. But in her strength, as was too often the case, she made too little allowance for the weakness of the others. She took the reins in her hand in a masterful and not merciful way, and dictated to the rest in a manner that they secretly resented. The store wagon was a little earlier than usual that morning and a note from Mr. Hard was handed in stating that he had payments to make that day and would therefore request that his little account might be met. Two or three other par- ties brought up bills from the village saying that for some reason or another the money was greatly needed. Tom Crowl's gossip was doing its legiti- mate work. In the post office Edith found all the other accounts against the family with requests for pay. ment, polite enough but pressing. She resolved to pay all she could, and went first ,'   278     WHAT CAN SHE DO? to Mr. Hard's. That worthy citizen's eyes grew less stony as he saw half the amount of his bill on the counter. The rumor of Edith's visit to the city had reached even him, and he had his fears that col- lecting might involve some unpleasant business, but however unpleasant it might be, Mr. Hard always collected. "I hope our method of dealing has satisfied you, Miss Allen," he ventured politely  "Oh, yes," said Edith dryly, "you have been very liberal and prompt with everything, especiily your bill." At this Mr. Hard's eyes grew quite pebbly, and he muttered something about its being the rule to settle monthly. "Oh, certainly," said Edith, "and like nost rules, no doubt, has many exceptions. Good morning." She also paid something on the other bills, rnd found that she had but a few dollars left. Thoulgh there was a certain sense of relief in the feeling that she now owed much less, still she looked with dis- may op the small sum remaining. Where was more to come from? She had determined that she would not go to New York again to sell anything except in the direst extremity. That evening Hannibal gave them a meagre supper, for Edith had told him of the absolute necessity of economy. There was a little grum. bling over the fare. So Edith pushed her chair back, laid seven dollars on the table saying,-   THE CHANGES OF TWO SHORT MONTHS. 279 -  That's all the money I have in the world. Who's got any more?" They raised ten dollars among them. "Now,' said Edith, "this is all we have. Where is more coming from?" Helpless sighs and silence were her only an- swers. "There is nothing clearer in the world," con- tinued Edith, "than that we must earn money. What can we do?" "I never thought I should have to work," said Laura piteously.  "^But, my dear sister," said Edith' earnestly, "isn't it clear to you now that ypu must? You certainly don't expect me to earn enough to supS- port you all. One pair of hands can't db it, and it wouldn't be fair in the bargain." "Oh certainly not," said Laura. "I will do anything you say as well as I can, though, for the life of me, I don't see what I can do." "Nor I either," said Zell passionately. "I don't know how to work. I never did anything useful in my life that I know of. What right have pa- rents to bring up girls in this way, unless they make it a perfect certainty that they will always be rich. Here we are as helpless as four children. We have not got enough to keep us from starving more than a week at best. Just to think of it! Men are speculating and risking all they have every day. Ever since I was a child I have heard about the risks of business. I know some people  .   280     WHA T CAN SHB D0 .o - whose fathers failed, and they went away, I don't know where, to suffer as we have perhaps, anid yet girls are not taught to do a single thing by which they can earn a penny if they need to. If any body will pay me for jabbering a little bad French and Italian, and strumming a few operatic airs on the piano, I am at their service. I think I also under- stand dressing, flirting, and receiving compliments very well. I had a taste for these things and never had any special motive given me for doing any thing else. What becomes of all the girls thus taught to be helpless, and then tossed out into the world to sink or swim?" "They find some self-sustaining work in it, said Edith. "Not all of them, I guess," muttered Zell sul. 'lenly. "Then they do worse, and had better starve," said Edith sternly. "You don't know any7thing about starving," retorted Zell, bitterly. "I repeat, it's a burning shame to bring girls up so that they don't know how to do anything, if there's ever any possibility that they must. And it's a worse shame that re- spect and encouragement is not given to girls who earn a living. Mother says thatif we become work- ing girls, not one of our old wealthy, fashionable set will have anything to do with us. What makes people act so silly? Any one of them one the Avenue may be where we are in a year. I've no patience with the ways of the world. People don't   THE CHANGES OP T-WO SHORT MONTHS. 281 help each other to be good, and don't help others up. Grown up folks act like children. How parents call look forward to the barest chance of their-children being poor, and bring them up as we were, I don't see. I'm no more fit to be poor, than to be President." Zell never before had said a word that reflected on her father, but in the light of events her criticism seemed so just that no one reproved her. Mrs. Allen only sighed over her part of the im plied blame. She had reached the hopeless stage of one lost in a foreign land where the language is unknown and every sight and sound unfamiliar and bewildering. This weak fashionable woman, the costly product of an artificial luxurious life, seemed capable of being little better than a mill- stone around the necks of her children in this hour of their need. If there had been some innate strength and nobility in Mrs. Allen's character, it might have developed now into something worthy of respect under this sharp attrition of trouble, however perverted before. But where a prdcious stone will take lustre a pumice stone will crumble. There is a multitude of natures so weak to begin with that they need tonic treatment all through life. What must such become under the influence of enervating luxury, flattery and uncurbed selfish. ness from childhood? Poor, faded, sighing, helpless Mrs. Allen, shivering before the trouble she had largely occasioned, is the answer. %   282     WHAT CAN SHE DOI  Edith soon broke the forlorn silence that fold  lowed Zell's outhurst by saying,-- "All the blame doesn't rest on the parents. I might have improved my advantages far better. I might have so mastered the mere rudiments of an English education as to be able to teach little chile dren, but I can scarcely remember a single thing now." "I can remember one thing,' interrupted Zell, who was fresh from her books, " that there was mighty little attention given to the rudiments as you call them, in the fashionable schools to which I went. To give the outward airs and graces of a fine lady seemed their wl ole aim. Accomplish- ments, deportment were everything. The way I was hustled over the rudiments almost takes away my breath to remember, and I have as remote an idea of vulgar fractions, as of how to do the vulgar work before us. I tell you the whole thing is a cruel farce. If girls are educated like butterflies, it ought to be made certain that they can live like butterflies." "Well then," continued Edith. "We ought to have perfected ourselves in some accomplishment. They are always in demand. See what some French and Music teachers obtain." "Nonsense," said Zell pettishy, "you know well enough that by the time we were sixteen,lour heads were so full of beaux, parties and dress, that French and music were a bore. We went through the fashionable mills like the rest, and if father   TIif, CHArNGES OF TWO SHORT JION2'HS. 283 had continued worth a million or so, no one would have found fault with our education." "We can't help the past now," said Edith after a moment, "but I am not so old yet but that I can choose some kind of work and so thoroughly master it that I can get the highest price paid for that form of labor. I wish it could' be gardening, for I have no taste for the shut up work of woman; sitting in a close room all day with a needle would be slow suicide to me."  : "Gardening!" said Zell contemptuously. "You couldn't plough as well as that snuffy old fellow who scratched- your garden about as deeply as a /hen would have done it. A woman can't dig and hoe in the hot sun, that is, an American girl can't, and I dont think they ought." "Nor I either," said Mrs. Allen, with some re. viving vitality. a The very idea is horrid." "But ploughing, digging and hoeing isn't all of gardening," said Edith with some irritation. "I guess you would make a slim support by just snipping around among the rose bushes," retorted Zell provokingly. "That's always the way with you, Zell," said Edith sharply, "from one extreme to- another. Well what would you like to do?" "If I had to work I would like housekeeping. That admits of great variety and activity. I wish I could open a summer boarding-house up here, Vouldn't I make it attractive!" "Such black eyes and -red cheeks certainly   284     WHAT CAN SHE DO  would--to the gentlemen," answered Edith satiri cally. "They would be mere accessories. I think I could give to a boarding-house, that place of hash and harrowing discomfort, a dainty homelike air., If father, w hen he risked a failure, had only put aside enough to set me up in a boarding-house, I should have been made." "A boarding-house! What horror next?'" sigh- ed Mrs. Allen. '( Don't be alarmed, mother," said ZeII bitterly. - We can scarcely start one of the forlornest hash species on ten dollars. I admit I would rather keep house for a good husband, and it seems to me I could soon learn to give him the perfection of a good home," and her eyes filled with wistful tears. Dashing them scornfully away, she added "The idea of a woman loving a man, and letting his home be dependent on the cruel mercies of foreign servants! If it's a shame that girls are not taught to make a living if they need to, it's a worse shame tha,'they are not taught to keep house. Half the brides I know of ought to have been arrested and imprisoned for obtaining property on false preten- ces. They had inveigled men into the vain ex- pectation that they would make a home for them, when they no more knew how :to make a homne than a heaven. The best they can do is to go to one of those places .so satirically called an " intelli- gence office," and import into their elegant house-, a small mob of quarrelsome, drunken, dishonest for *  /     -       *    ,   THE CfHANGES OF TWO SHORT MONTHS. 285 eigners, and then they and their husbands live on such conditions as are permitted. I would be mis- tress of my house just as a man is master of his store or office, and I would know thoroughly how all kinds of work was done, and see that it was done thoroughly. If they wouldn't do it, I'd dis- charge them. I am satisfied that our bad servants /are the result of bad housekeepers mol e than any- / -thing else." "Poor little Zell,' said Edith, smiling sadly. "I hope you will have a chance to put your theories into most happy and successful practice." "Little chance of it here in ' Bushtown' as Han- nibal calls it," said Zell sullenly. "Well," said Edith, in a kind of desperate tone, "we've got to decide on something at once. I will suggest this. Laura must take care of mother, and teach a few little children if sle can get them. We will give up the parlor to her certain hours. 1i will put up a notice in the post office asking for such patronage, and perhaps we can put an adver- tisement in the Pushton Recorder, if it don't cost too much. Zell, you must take the housekeeping 'mainly, for which you have a taste, and help me- with any sewing that I can get. Hannibal will go into the garden and I will help him there all I can. I shall go to the village to-morrow and see if I can find anything to do that will bring in money." There was a silent acquiescence in Edith's plan, for no one had anything else to offer. ,  -T ^           *"'   CHAPTER XVIII. IGNORANCE. LOOKING FOR WORK. T-HE next day Edith went to the village, and frankly told Mr. Hard how they were situated, mentioning that the failure of their lawyer to sell the stock had suddenly placed them in this crip: pled condition. Mr. Hard's eyes-grew more pebbly as he lis- tened. He ventured in a constrained voice as consolation,-- . "That he never had much faith in stocks-No, he had no employment for ladies in connection with his store. He simply bought and sold at a sinall advance. Miss Klip, the dressmaker, might have something." To Miss Klip Edith went. Miss Klip, although an unprotected female, appeared to be a maiden that could take care of herself. One would scarce- ly venture to hinder her. - Her cutting scissors seemed instinct with life, and one would get out of their way as instinctively as from a railroad train. She gave Edith a sharp look through -her spectacles and said abruptly in answer to her application,- "I thought you was rich." "We were," said Edith sadly, "but we must work now and are willing to."   IGNORANCE.-LOOXKIG FOR WORK.   287 "Whit do you know about dressmaking and sewing?  "Well, not a great deal, bat I think you would find us very ready to learn." "Oh, bless you, .I can get all my work done by thorough hands, and at my own prices, too. Good- morning." "But can you not tell me of some one who would be apt to have work?   , -"There's- Mrs. Glibe across the street.' She has work sometimes. Most of the dressmakers around here are well trained, have machines, and go out by the day." Edith's heart sank. What chance was there for her untaught hands among all these 'strained workers." She soon found that Mrs. Glibe was more in- clined to talk, (being as garrulous as Miss Klip was laconic,) and to find out all about them, than to help her to work. Making but little headway in Edith's confidence she at last said, "I give Rose Lacey all the work I have to spare and it isn't very much. The business is so cut up that none of us have much more than we can do except a short time in the busy season, Still, those of us who can give a nice fit and cut to advantage can make a good living after getting known. It takes time and training you know of course.' i  "But isn't there work of any kind that we can get in this place?" said Edith impatiently. "'Wellnot that you'd be willing to do. Of 4 .   '288    'wf4 T rCAA SHE DO f course-there's housecleaning and washing andsome plain sewing, though that is mostly done on a ma-. chine. A good strong woman can always get day's work, except in winter, but you aint one of that sort," she added, looking at Edith's delicate pink and white complexion and little white hands in which a scrubbing brush would look. incongruous. "Isn't there any demand for fancy work?" ask- ed Edith. "( Mighty little. People buy such things in the city. Money aint so plenty in the country that people will spend much on that kind of thing. The ladies themselves make it at home and when they go out to tea." "Oh dear," sighed Edith, as she plodded wea- rily homeward, " what can we dor Ignorance is as bad as crime." Her main hope now for immediate necessities was that they might get some scholars She had put up a notice in the post offce and an adver. tisement in the paper. She had also puJ-hased some rudimentary school books, and the poor child, on her return- home, soon distracted herself by a sudden plunge into vulgar fractions. She found herself so sadly rusty that she would have to study almost as hard as any of her pupils, were they ob- tained. Laurg's bookish turn and better mem. ory had kept her better informed. Edith soon threw aside grammars and arithmetics, saying to Laura,-        -  "You must take care of the school, if we get   IGNORANCE.-LOOKING FOR WORK.   289 one. It would take me too long to prepare on these things in our emergency."- Almost desperate from the feeling that there Iwas nothing she could do, she took a hoe that was -by no means light, and loosened the ground and cut off all the sprouting weeds around her straw- berry vines. The day was rather cool and cloudy, and she was surprised at the space she went over. She wore her broad-rimmed straw-hat tied down over her face, and determined she would not look at the road, and act as if it were not there, letting people think what they pleased. 'But a familiar rumble and rattle caused her to look shyly up after the wagon had passed, and she saw Arden Lacey gazing wonderingly back at her. She dropped her eyes instantly as if she had not seen him, and went on with her work. At last, thoroughly wearied, Ihe went in and said half triumphantly, halfde- fiantly,-- "A woman can hoe. I've done it myself." "A woman can ride a horse like a man," said- Mrs. Allen, and this was all the home en courage, ment poor Edith received. They had had but a light lunch at one o'clock, meaning to have a more substantial dinner at six. I1 annibal was showing Zell and getting her started in her department. It was but a poor little dinner they had, and Zell said in place of dessert,- ' Edith, we are most out of everything." "And I can't get any work," said Edith de- spondingly. "People have got to know how to do 13   290     ' WHAT CAN SHE DO? things gefore anybody wants them, and we haven't time to learn." "Ten dollars won't last long," said Zell reck. lessly. "I will go down to the village and make further inquiries to-morrow," Edith continued in a weary tone. ' It seems strange how people stand aloof from us. No one calls and every body wants what we owe them right away. Are there not any good kind people in Pushton?  I wish we had not offended the Laceys. They might have advised and helped us, but nothing would tempt me to go to them after treating them as we did." There were plenty of good kind people in Push. ton, but BMrs. Allen's "policy" had driven them away as far as possible. By their course the Al- lens had placed themselves, in relation to all classes, in the most unapproachable position, and their "friends" from the city and Tom Crowl's gossip made matters far worse. Poor Edith thought they were utterly ignored. She would have felt worse if she had known that every one was talk- ing about them. The next day Edith started on another unsuc- cessful expedition to the village, and while she was gone, Zell went to the post-office to which'she had told Van Dam to direct his reply; She found the plausible lie we have already placed before the reader. At first she experienced a sensation of anger that he had not complied with her wish. It was   rIGORANCE.-LOOKING FOR WORK.   291 a new experience to have gentlemen. especially Van Dam, so long her obsequious slave, think of anything contrary to her wishes. She also feared that Edith might be right, and that Van Dam desk ned evil against her. She would not openly admit, even to herself, thatvthis was his purpose, and yet Edith's words had been so clear and strong, and Van Dam's conditions placed her so entirely at his mercy, that she shrank from him and was fascinated at the same time. But instead of indignantly- casting the letter from her, she read it again and again. Her foolish heart pleaded for him. "He couldn't be so false to me, so false to his written word," she said, and the letter was hidden away, and she passed into the dangerous stage of ' irresolution, where temptation is secretly dwelt upon. She hesitated, and according to the pro- verb, the woman who does this is lost. Instead of- indignantly casting temptation from her, she left- her course open, to be decided somewhat by circumstances. She wilfully shut her eyes to the danger, and tried to believe, and did almost believe that her lover meant honestly by her. And so the days passed, Edith vainly trying to find something to do, and working hard in her garden, which as yet brought no return. She was often- very sad and despondent and' again very irritable. laura's apathy only deepened, and she seemed like one not yet awakenfed from a dream of the past. Zell made some show of work, but   292     WtYA T CAWN SHE DO  -after all left most everything for Hannibal as before, and when Edith sharply chided her, she laughed recklessly and said,- - What's the use? If we are going to starve we might as well do so at once and it's over with." "I won't starve," said Edith, almost fiercely. "There must be honest work somewhere in the world for one willing to do it, and I'm going to find it. At any rate, I can raise food in my garden before long." "I'm afraid we'll starve before your cabbages and carrots come to maturity, and -we might as well as to try to live on such garbage. Supplies are running low, and as you say, the money is  nearly gone." "Yes, and people won't trust us any more. Two or three declined to in the village to-day, and I felt too discouraged and ashamed to ask any further. For s6me reason people seem afraid of us. I see persons turn and look after me, and yet they avoid rme. Two or three impudent clerks tried to make my acquaintance, but I snubbed them in such a way that they will let me alone hereafter. I wonder if any stories could have got around about us?  Country towns are such places for gossip." "Have you heard of any scholars?" said Laura languidly. "No, not one," was Edith's despondent answer. If nothing turns up before, I'll go to New York i -'         \  t , '   IGNORANCE.-LOOXING FOR WORK.   293 next. Monday and sell some more things, and I'll go where I'm known this time.' Nothing turned up, and by Sunday they-had nothing in the house save a little dry bread, which they ate moistened with wine and water. Mrs Allen sighed and& cried all day. Laura had the strange manner of one awaking up to something. unrealized before. Restlessness began to take the place of apathy, and her eyes often sought the face of Edith in a questioning manner. Finding her alone in the garden, she said,- "Why Edith, I'm hungry. I never remember being hungry before. Is it possible we have come to this?" - Edith burst) into tears, and said brokenly,- "Come with me to the arbor." "I'm sure I'm willing to do anything," said- Laura piteously, " but I never realized we would come to this."' i Oh, how can the birds sing?" said Edith bit. terly. "This beautiful spring weather, with its promise and hopefulness, seems a mockery. The sun is shining brightly, flowers are budding an{1 blooming, and all the world seems so happy, but my heart aches as if it would burst. I'm hungry, too, and I know poor old Hannibal is faint, though he tries to keep up whenever I am around." "But Edith if people knew how we are situated they would not let us want. Our old acquaintances in New York, or our relations even, though not very friendly, would surely keep us.'     .    294     WH4AT CAN- SHE DO  "Oh, yes, I suppose so for a little while, but I can't bring myself to ask for charity, and no one would undertake to support us. What discourages me most is that I can't get work that will bring, in money. Between people wishing to have nothing to do with us, on one hand, and my ignorance on the other, there seems no resource. Some of those whom we owe seem inclined to press us. I'm so afraid of losing this place and being out on the street. If I could only get a chance somewhere, or get time to learn to do something well!" Then after a moment she asked suddenly, "Where's Zell?" "In her room, I think." s "I don't like Zell's manner," said Edith, after a brief painful reverie. '"It's so hard and reckless. Something seems on her mind. She has long fits of abstraction as if she were thinking of something, or weighing some plan. Could she have had any communication with that villain Van Dam? Oh, that would be the bitterest drop of all in our cup of sorrow. I would rather see her dead than that. "Oh dear,' said Laura, " it seems as if I had been in -a trance and had just awakened. Wihy Edith, I must do something. It is not iight to let -you bear all these things alone. But doi t trouble about Zell, not one of George Allen's daughters will sink to that."   CHAPTER XIX. A FALLIN  STAR. r ELL slept most of the day. She had reached that point where she did not want to think. On hearing Edith say that she would go to New York on Monday, a sudden and strong temptation as. sailed her. Impulsive, but not courageous, abotmd- ing in energy, but having little fortitude, she found the conditions-of her country life growing unendur- able. Var Dam seemed her only refuge,her only means of escape. She soon lost all hope of their- sustaining themselves by work in Pushton. Her uncurbed nature could wait patiently for nothing, and as the long, idle days passed, she doubted, and then despaired, of any success from Edith's plans, She harbored Van Dam's temptation, and the con. sciousness of doing. this hurt her womanly nature, and her hard, reckless tone and manner was the natural consequence. Though she said to herself, and tried to believe, - He will marry me--he has promised again and again." Still, there was the uneasy knowledge that she was -placing herself and reputation entirely at his mercy, and she long had known that Van Dam was no saint. It was this lurking knowledge, shut her   I 296    WHA T CAN SHE DO? eyes to it as she might, that acted on her nature like that petrifying influence existing in some places, which tends to turn all to stone. And yet, Van Dam's temptation had more to contend with in her pride than her moral nature. Everything in her education had tended to increase the former, a d dwarf the latter. Her parents had -taken her to he theatre far oftenerthan even to the fashionable c Lurch on the avenue. From the latter she carried away more ideas about dress than any- thing else. From a child she had been familiar with the French school of morals, as taught by the sensational drama in New York. Society, that will turn a poor girl out of doors the moment she sins, will take her at the most critical age of her unformed character, night after night, to witness plays in which the husband is made ridiculous, but the 'man who destroys purity and home-happiness, is as splendid a villain as Milton's Satan. Mr. Allen himself had familiarized Zell's mind with just what she was tempted to do, by taking her to plays as poisonous to the soul as the malaria of the Campagna at Rome to the body. He, though dead, had a part in the present temptation of his child, and we unhesita. tingly charge many parents with the absolute ruin of their children, by exposing them, and permitting them to be exposed, to influences that they know must be fatal.- No guardian of a child can plead the densest stupidity for not knowing that Fiench novels and plays are as demoralizing as the devil could wish them to be; and constantly to place young   A F4ALLING STAR.      297 passionate natures, just awakening in their uncurbed strength, under such influences, and expect them to remain as spotless as snow, is the most wretched ab- suidity of our day. Society brings fire to the tow, the brand to the powder, and then lifts its hand to hurl its anathema in case they ignite. But Mr. Allen sinned even more grievously in permitting a man like Van Dam to haunt his home. If now one of the lambs of his flock suffered irretriev- ably, he would be as much to blame as a shepherd who daily saw the wolf within his fold. Mr. Allen was familiar with the stories about Van Dam, as mul- titudes of wealthy men are to-day with the charac- ter of well-dressed scoundrels that visit their daughters. Some of the worst villains in existence have the entree into the " best society." It is pretty well known among men what they are, and fashion- able mammas are not wholly in the dark. There- fore, every day, "Angels that kept not their first estate " are falling from heaven. It may not be the open, disgraceful ruin that threatened poor Zell, but ruin nevertheless. After all, it was the undermining, unhallowed influence of long association with Van Dam that now made Zell sc weak in her first sharp stress of temp. tation. Crime was not awful and repulsive to her. There was little in her cunningly-perverted nature that revolted at it. She hesitated mainly on the ground of her pride, and in view of the consequen. ces. And even these latter she in no sense realized, for the school in which she had been taught showed *   *      '   .-     \      %   :298     WHA T CAN SHE DO  only the flowery opening of the path into Sin, while its terrible retributions were kept hidden. Therefore, as the miseries of her condition in the country increased, Zell's pride failed her, and she began to be willing to risk all to get away, and when' she felt the pinch of hunger she became almost des- perate. As we have said, on Edith's-naming a day on which she would be absent on the forlorn mission that would only put off the day of utter want a little longer, the temptation took definite shape in Zell's mind to write at once to Van Dam, acceding to his shameful conditions. But, to satisfy her conscience, which she could not stifle, and to provide some excuse for her action, and still more, to brace the hope she tried to cherish that he really meant truly by her, she wrote, "If I will meet you at the boat Monday evening, will you surely marry me? Promise me on your sacred honor." Van Dam muttered, with alow laugh, as he read the note, "That's a rich joke, for her to accept such a prop- osition as mine, especially after all that has hap- pened, and still prate of'sacred honor.' " But he unhesitatingly, promptly, and with many protestations assured her that he would, and at once prepared to carry out his part of the pro. gramme. "What's the use of half-way lies?" he said, care. lesly.                 / On Monday Edith again took the early train   A FALLING STAR.       299 with the valuables she designed disposing of. Zell had said indifferently, ,' You may take anything I have left except m} watch and chain."' But Laura had insisted on sending her watch, saying, "I really wish to do something, Edith. I've left all the burden on you too long." Mrs. Alien sighed, and said, "Take anything you please."  So Edith carried away with her the means of fighting the wolf, hunger, from their doors a little longer. But if she had known that a more cruel enemy would despoil her home in her absence, she would have rather starved than gone. Laura was reading to her mother when Zell put her head in at the door, saying, "I am going for a short walk, and wilt be back soon. She hastened to the office at which she told Van Dam to address her, and found his reply. With feverish cheeks, and eyes in which glowed excite- . ment rather than happiness, she read it as soon as alone on the road, and returned as quickly as pos- sible. Her mind was in a wild tumult, but she would not allow herself one connected thought. She spent most of the day in her room preparing for her flight. But when she came down to see Hannibal about their rmeagre lunch, he said in some surprise and alarm, "Oh, Miss Zell,low burnin red your cheeks be  You'se got a ragin feber, sure 'nuff. Go and lie You  se  got  a  ragin,   300  -    xWHAT CANX SUE DOI right straight down, and I se see to ebery ting. Ise been to de willage and got some tea. A man guve X it to me as a sample, and I telled him we'se like our tea mighty strong, so you'se all hab a cup of tea to-day, and to-night Miss Edie 'll come back with a heap of money." "Poor old Hannibal," said Zell, with a sudden rush of tenderness. "I wish I were as good as you "Lor bress you, Miss Zell, I isn't good. I'se kind of a heathen.  But somehow I feels dat de Lord will bress me when I steals for you alls." "Of , Hannibal, I wish I was dead and out of the way! Then there would be one less to provide for. "Dead and out of de way!" said Hannibal, half indignantly; " dat's jest how to get into de way.  'd be afeard of seein your spook whenever I was alone. I  had no comfort in New York arter Massa Allen died, and was mighty glad to get away even to Bushtown. And den- Miss Edie ad- all would cry dar eyes out, and couldn't do nothin. Folks is often more in de way arter dey's dead andl gone dan when livin. Seein your sweet face around ebery day, honey, is a great help to ole Hannibal. It seems only yesterday it was a little baby face, and we was all- pretty nigh crazy over you." "I wish I  had died then!" said Zell, passionately and hurrying away. "Poor chile, poor chile!;he takes it mighty hard," said innocent HannibaI.   A FALLING STAR.      301 She kept her room during the afternoon, plead- ing that she did not feel well. It gave her pain to be with her mother and Laura, now that she pur. posed to leave them so abruptly, and she wished to see nothing that would shake her resolution to go as she had arranged. She wrote to Edith as follows: " I am going, Edith, to meet Mr. Van Dam, as he told me. I cannot- I will not believe that he will prove false to me. I leave his letter, which I re- ceived to-day. Perhaps you never will forgive me at home; but whatever becomes of poor little Zell, she will not cease to love you all. I would only be a burden if I stayed. There will be one less to provide for, and I may be,,able to help you far more by going than staying. Don't follow me. I've made my venture, and chosen my lot. ZELL." As the long twilight was deepening, Hannibal, returning from the well with a pail of water, heard the gate-latch click, and looking up, saw Zell hur- rying out with hat and shawl on, and having the appearance of carrying something under her shawl. He felt a little surprise at first, but then Zell was sO full of impulse, that he concluded, "She's gwine to meet Miss Edie. We'se all a-lookin   and leanin on Miss Edie, Lor bress her," But Zell was going to perdition. Little later the stage brought tired Edith home,  302     WHAT CAN SHE DOI but in better spirits than before, as she had realized a somewhat fair sum for what she had sold, and had been treated politely. After taking off her things, she asked,. "Where's Zell?" ', Lying down, I think," said Laura. "She complained of not feeling well this afternoon." But Hannibal's anxious face in-the door now caught her attention, and she joined him at once. ," Didn't you meet Miss Zell?" he asked in a whisper. "Meet her? no,' answered Edith- excitedly. "Dat's quare. She went out with hat and shawl, on a little while ago. P'raps she's come back, and gone up stairs again." Trembling so she could hardly walk steadily, Edith hurried to her room, and there saw Zell's note. Tearing it open, she only read the first line, and then rushed down to her mother and Lauyra, sobbing, ' Zell's gone." "Gone! Where?" they said, with dismayed faces. Edith's only reply was to suddenly look at her watch, put on her hat, and dart out of the door. She saw that there was still ten minutes before thie evcn. ing boat passed the Pushton lIndi!ngand remem- 'bered that it was sometimes delayf-S There was a-shorter road to the dock than the one through the village, and this she took, with flying feet, and   A FALLING STAR.      303 a white but determined face. It would have been a terrible thing for Van Dam to have met her then. She seemed sustained by supernatural strength, and, walking and runnin g by turns , made the mile and a half i in an ncredibly short space of time As she reached the top of the  ill above the landing, she saw the boat coming in to the dock: Though panting and almost spent, again she ran at the top of her speed . Ialf-way down she heard the plank ring out upon the wharf. "Stop! ' she called. But her parchedlips ut- tered only a faint sound, like the cry of one in a dream.        s she struggled desperately forward, there came, like the knell of hope, the command, , All aboard!" Oh, wait, wait!" she again tried to call, but her tongue seemed paralyzed. As she reached the commencement of the long dock, she saw the lines cast off. The great wheels gave a vigorous revolution, and the boat swept away., She was too late. She staggered forward a few steps more, and then all her remaining strength went into one agonized cry, "Zell!" And she fell fainting on the dock. Zell heard that cry, and recognized the voiced Taking her hand from Mr.'Van Dam's arm. she covered her face in sudden remorseful-%weeping' if?       ^^^^  - s    304   -   WHA T CAN SHE DO I But it was too late. She nad left the shelter of home, and ventured out into the great pitiless world on nothing better than Van Dam's word. It was like walking a rotten plank out into the sea.  Zell was lost I    CHAPTER XX. DESOLATION tNOT only did Edith's bitter cry startle' poor Zell, coming to her ear as a despairing recall from the battlements of heaven might have sounded to a falling angel, but Arden Lacey was as thoroughly aroused from his painful reverie as if shaken by a giant hand. He had been down to meet the boat, with many others, and was sending off some little produce from their place. He had not noticed in the dusk the closely-vailed lady; indeed, he rarely noticed any one unless they spoke to him, and thenl gave but brief, surly attention. Oniy one had scanned Zell curiously, and that was Tom Crowl. With his quick eye for something wrong in human action, he was attracted by Zell's manner. He could not make out through her thick vail who she was, in the increasing darkness, but he saw that she was agitated, and that she looked eagerly for the coming of the boat, also landward, where the road came out on the dock, as if fearing or expect- ing something from that quarter. But when he saw her join Van Dam, he recognized his old bar-room acquaintance, and surmised that the lady was one of the Allen family. Possessing these links in the chain, he was ready for the next. Edith's presence. and cry supplied this, and he chuckled exultantly p    306     -VIAT CAN SHE DO? "All elopement!" and ran in the direction of tl- sound. But Arden was already at Edith's side, havin reached her almost at a bound, and was gently lif ing the unconscious girl, and regarding her with tenderness only equaled by his helplessness an perplexity in knowing what to do with her. The first impulse of his great strength was t carry her directly to her home. But Edith wa anything but ethereal, and long before he coulh have passed the mile and -a half, he would havy fainted under the burden, even though love nervec his arms. But while he stood in piteous irresolu tion, there came out from the crowd that hac gathered round, a stout, middle-aged woman, wh( said, in a voice that not only betokened the utmosi confidence in herself, but also the assurance that all the world had confidence in her: X "Here, give me the girl. What do you men-folks know about women?" "I declare it's Miss Groody from the hotel," ejacu. lated Tom Crowl, as this delightful drama (to him) went on from act to act. "Standin' there and holdin' of her, continued Mrs. Groody, who was sometimes a little severe on both sexes, " won't bring her to, unless she fainted 'cause she wanted some one to hold her." A general laugh greeted this implied satire, but Arden, between anger and desire to do something, was almost beside himself. He had tie presence of mind to rush to the boat-house for a bucket of water, , .   1       DESOLA TION.       37 and when he arrived with it a man had also pro. cured a lantern, which revealed to th! curious onlookers that gathered round with craning necks,' the pale features of Edith Allen. - '"By golly, but it's one of them Allen girls," said Tom Crowl, eagerly. "I see it all now. She's down to stop her sister, who's just run away with one of those city scamps, that was up here awhile ago. I saw her join him and take his arm on the boat, btt wasn't sure who she was then." "-Might know you was around, Tom Crowl," said Mrs. Groody. "There's never nothing wrong going on'but you will see it. You are worse than any old woman for gossip. Why don't you put on petti- coats and go out to tea for a livin'?" When the laugh ceased at Crowl's expense, he said : "Don't you. put on airs, Mrs. Groody ; you are as glad to hear the news as any one. It's a pity you / turned up and spoiled Mr. Lacey's part of the play, for, if this one is anything like her sister, she, per- haps, wanted to be held as you -" Tom's further utterance was effectually stopped by such a blow across his mouth, from Lacey's hand, as brought the blood profusely on the spot, and caused such disfigurement, for days after, that appro- priate justice seemed visited on the offending region. "Leave this dock)" said Arden, sternly; "and if I trace any slander'to you concerning this lady or myself, I will break every bone in your miserable body." ,            .    308      WHA T CAN SHE DO? Crowl shrank off amid the jeers of the crowd, but when reaching a safe distance, said, "You will be sorry for this." Arden paid no heed to him, for Edith, under Mrs, Groody's treatment, gave signs of returning con- sciousness. She slowly opened her eyes, and turned them wonderingly around ; then came a look of wild alarm, as she saw herself surrounded by strange bearded faces, that appeared both savage and gro- tesque in -the flickering light of the lantern. "Oh, Heaven, have mercy," she cried, faintly. "Where am I?" "Among friends, I assure you, Miss Allen," said Arden, kneeling at her side. "Mr. Lacey! and are you here?" said Edith, trying to rise. "You surely will protect me." "Do not be afraid, Miss Allen. No one would harm you for the world ; and Mrs. Groody is a good kind lady, and will see you safely home, I am sure." Edith now became conscious that it was Mrs. Groody who was supporting her, and regained confi- dence, as she recognized the presence of a woman. "Law bless you, child, you needn't be scared. You have only had a faint. I'll take care of you, as young Lacey says. Seems to me he's got wonder. fully polite since last summer," she muttered to her- self. "But where am I?" asked Edith, with a bewil. dered air; "what has happened?" "Oh, don't worry yourself; you'll soon be hotea and safe."   DESOLA T70N.       309 But the memory of it all suddenly came to Edith, and even by the lantern's light, Arden saw the sud- den crimson pour into her face and neck. She gave one wild, deprecating look around, and then buried her face in her hands as if to hide the look of scorn she expected to see on every face. The first arrow aimed by Zell's great wrong -al- ready quivered in her heart. "Don't you thinlk you could walk a little now, just enough to get into the hack with me and go home?" asked the kind woman, in a soothing voice. "Yes, yes," said Edith, eagerly; "let us get away at once." And with Mrs. Groody's and Arden's as- sistance, she was soon seated in the hack, and was glad to note that there was no other passenger. The ride was a comparatively silent one. Edith was too exhausted from her desperate struggle to reach the boat, and her heart was too bruised and sore, to permit on her part much more than monosyllables, in answer to Mrs. Groody's efforts at conversation. But as they stopped at the cottage, her new friend said, cheerily, "Don't take it so hard, my child; you ain't to blamne. I'll stand by you if no one else will. It don't take me long to know a good honest girl when I see one, and I know you mean well. What's more, I've took a liking to you, and I can be a pret.. ty fair sort of friend if I do work for a livin'." Mrs. Groody was good if not grammatical. She had broad shoulders, that had borne in their day many burdens; her own and others, She had a   3IO 10    l1A T CAN SHE DOt strong, stout frame, in which thumped a large, kind lyheart. She had long earned her bread by call. ings that brought her in contact with all classes, and learned to know the world very thoroughly without becoming worldly or hardened. But she had a quiclk, sharp tongue, and could pay anybody off in their own coin with interest. Everybody soon found it to their advantage to keep on the right side of Mrs. Groody, and the old habitues of the hotel were as polite and deferential to her as if she were a duchess. ' She was one of those shrewd, strong, cheery people, who would make themselves snug, useful, and influential in a very short time; if set down anywhere on the face of the earth, Such a woman readily surmised the nature of Edith's trouble, and knew well how deeply the shadow of Zell's disgrace would fall on the family. Edith's desperate effort to save her sister, her bitter humiliation and shrinking shame in view of the flight, all proved her to be worthy of respect and confidence herself. When- Mrs. Groody saw that Edith lived in a little house, and was probably not in so high a social position as to resent her patron- age, her big heart yearned in double sympathy over the poor girl, and she determined to help her in the struggle she knew to be before her: -so she said, kindly, - If you'll wait till an old clumsy body like me can get out, I'll see you safe into your home." "Oh, no," said Edith, eagerly, following the strong instinct to keep a stranger- from seeing her   DESOLATION.   .3" self, mother, Laura, in the first hourpf their shame. "You have been very kind, and I feel that I can never repay you." "Bless you, cl-ild, I don't expect greenbacks for all I do I want a little of the Lord's work to come to me, though I'm afraid I fell from grace long ago. But a body can't be pious in a hotel. There's so many aggravatin' people and things that you think swearing, if you darsn't say it out. But I'm a hu- man sort of a heathen, after all, and I feel sorry for you. Now ain't there somethin' I can do for y(Ji?" The driver stood with his lantern near the door, and its rays fell on Edith's pale face and large, tear- ful eyes, and she turned, and for the first time tried to see who this kind woman was, that seemed to feel for her. Taking Mrs. Groody's hands, she said, in a voice of tremulous pathos, "God bless you for speaking to me at all. I didn't think any one would again, who knew. You ask if you can do anything for me. If you'll only get me work, I'll bless you every day of my life. No one on earth or in heaven can help me, unless I get work. I'm almost desperate for it, and I can't seem to find any that will bring us bread, but I'll do any honest work, no matter what, and I'll take whatever people are willing to give for it, till I can do better." Edith spoke in a rapid manner, but in a tone that went straight to the heart. :' Why, my poor child," said Mrs. Groody, wiping her eyes, "You can't do work. You are pale as a ghost, and you look like a delicate-lady."'   312     WfA 2' CA SHE' DO'? "What is there in this world for a delicate lady who has no money, but honest work?" asked Edith, in a tone that was almost stern. ' I see that you are such a lady, and it seems that you ought to find some lady-like work, if you must do it," said Mrs. Groody, musingly. "We have tried to get employment-almost any kind. I can't think my sister would have taken her desperate course if we could have obtained some- thing to do. I know she ought to have starved first. But we were not brought up to work, and we can't do anything well enough to satisfy people, and we haven't time to learn.- Besides, before this hap. pened, for some reason people stood aloof from us, and' now it will be far worse. Oh, what shall we do? What shall we do?" cried Edith, despairingly; and in her trouble she seemed to turn her eyes away from Mrs. Groody, with wild questioning of the future. Her new-acquaintance was sniffling and blowing her nose in a manner that betokened serious inter- nal commotion. The driver, whG  would have hustled any ordinary passenger out quickly enough, waited Mrs. Groody's leisure at a respectful dis- tance. He knew her potential influence at the hotel. At last the goodwoman found her voice, though it seenmed a little husky: "Lor' bless you, child, I ain't got a millstun for a heart, and if I had, you'd turn it into wax. If work's all you want, yoti shall have it. I'm house. keeper at the -hctel. You come to me as soon as you are able, and we'll find something.'   DESOLA TION.      313 "Oh, thank you, thank you!"' said Edith, fcr- vidly. "Is dat you, Miss Edie?" called Hannibal's anxious voice. "Good night, my dear," said Mrs. Groody, has- tily "Don't lose courage. I ain't on as good terns with the Lord as I ought to be. I seem too worried and busy to 'tend to religion; but I know enough about Him to be sure that He will take care of a poor child that wants to do right." ( I don't understand how God lets happen all that's happened to-day. The best I capn believe is, that we are dealt with in a mass, and the -poor human atoms 'are lost sight of. But I am indeed grateful for your kindness, and will come to-morrow and do anything I can. Good-bye." And the hack rumbled away, leaving her in the darkness, with Hannibal at the gat. - "Oh, Hannibal, Hannibal," was all that Edith could say. "Is she done gone clean away?" asked Hannibal, in an awed whisper. ( Would to heaven tshe had never been born," said Edith,- bitterly. - "Help me into the house, for I feel as if I would die." Hannibal, trembling with fear himself, supported poor, exhausted Edith to a sofa, and then disap- peared in the kitchen. Mrs. Allen and Laura came and stood with white fares by Edith's languid, unnerved form. Tlhere was no need of asking questions. She had "    31)4    WHAT CAN S$f/ DO? returned alone, with her fresh young face looking old and drawn in its grief. At last Mrs. Allen said, with bitter emphasis: "She is no child of mine, from this day forth." Then followed such a dreary silence, that it might seem tiat Zel} had died and was no more. X At last Hannibal bustled in, making a most desperate effort to keep up a poor show of courage and hope. He placed on a little table before Edith a steaming hot cup of tea, some toast, and wine, but the food was motioned away. l"It would choke me," said Edith. Hannibal stood before her a moment, his quaint old visage working under the influence of emotion, almost beyond control. At last he managed to say:  "Miss Edie, we'se all a-leanin on you. We'se nothin but'vines a-climbin up de orange bush. If you goes down, we all does. And now, Miss Edie, I'd swallow pison for you. Won't you take a cup o' tea for de sake of ole Hannibal? 'Cause your sweet face looks so pinched, honey, dat I feels- dat my ole black heart's ready to bust; " and Hannibal, feel- ing that the limit of his restraint was reached, retreated Iprecipitately to the kitchen. The appeal, with its element of deep affection, was more needed by Edith in her half paralyzed state- than even the material refreshment. She sat up instantly, and drank the tea and wine, and ate a little of the toast. Then taking the cup and glass into the kitchen,   DESOLATION.       3 i5  "There,' she said,( " see, I've drunk every drop. So don't worry about me any more, my poor old Hannibal, but go to bed, after your hard day's work." But Hannibal would not venture out of his dark corner, but muttered, brokenly, "Lor,-bress-you--Miss Edie--you'se an angel --Ise be better soon-Ise got-de hicups." Edith thought it kindness to leave the old man to recover his self-control in his own time and way, so -she said, "Good-night, my faithful old friend, You're worth your weight in gold." Meantime, Laura had helped Mrs. Allen to her room, but now she came running down to Edith, with new trouble in her face, saying: "Mother's crying so, I can't do anything with her." At first Mrs. Allen's heart seemed hardened against her erring child, but on reaching her room she stood a few moments irresolutely; then went to a drawer, and took an old faded picture-case and opened it, to where Zell smiled out upon her, a little, dimpled baby. Then, as if by a sudden im. pulse, rare to her, she pressed her lips against the unconscious face, and threw herself into her low chair, sobbing so violently that Laura became  . alarmed. Even in that arid place Mrs. Allen's heart, there appeared a little oasis of mother love, as this last and bitterest sorrow pierced its lowest depths. She   316     WHAT CAN SHE DO? might cast out from her affection the giown, sinning daughter, but not the baby that once slept upon her breast. As Edith came and took her hand she said, brokenly:  . "It seems---but yesterday-that she was-a wee black-eyed-little thing--in my arms-and your father--came-and looked at her--so proudly- tenderly-" "Would to heaven she had died then," said Edith, sternly.  "It would have been better if we ad all died then," said Mrs. Allen drearily, and becoming quiet. Edith's words fell like a chill upon oher unwonted- ly stirred heart, and old habits of feeling and action resumed sway. With Mrs. Allen's words ended the miserable day of Zell's flight. Hannibal's words were true. Zell, in her unnatural absence, would be more in the way -a heavier burden, than if she had become a help- less invalid upon their hands. e   CHAPTER   XXI. EDITH'S TRUE KNIGHT. 'pHE next morning Edith was too ill to rise. She had become chilled after her extraor. dinary exertion of the previous evening, and a se- vere cold was the consequence; and this, with the nervous prostration of an overtaxed system, made her appear more seriously indisposed than she real- ly was. For the sake of her mother and Laura, she wished to be present at the meagre little breakfast which her economy now permitted, but found it impossible; and later in the day, her mind seemed disposed to wander. Mrs. Allen and Laura were terror-sticken at this new trouble. As Hannibal said, they were all lean- ing on Edith. They had lost confidence in them- selves, and hope now from the outside world. They had scarcely the shadow of an expectation that Van Dam would marry Zell, and therefore knew that worse than work would separate them from all old connections, and they had learned to hope nothing from the people of Pushton. Poor, feverish, wan-"  dering Edith seemed the only one who could keep them from falling into the abyss of utter want. They instinctively felt that total wreck was impossible as long as she kept her hand upon the helm; but now *  '     "'"*G   38   e   WHA T CAN SHE DOt they had all the wild alarm of those who are drifts ing helplessly on a reef, with a deep and stormy sea on either side of it. Thus, to the natural anxiety of affection was added sickening fear. Poor old Hannibal had no fear for himself. His devotion to Edith reminded one of a faithful dog; it was so strong, instinctive, unreasoning. He real- ized vaguely that his whole existence depended on. Edith's getting well, and yet we doubt whether he thought of himself any more than the Newfound- land, who watches beside the bed, and then beside the grave of a loved master, till famine, that form -of pain which humanity cannot endure, robs him of life. "We must have a physician immediately," said Laura, with white lips. "Oh, no," murmured Edith; "we can't afford it." "We must," said Laura, with a sudden rush of tears. "Everything depends on you." Hannibal, who heard this brief dialogue, went silently down stairs, and at once started in quest of Arden Lacey. "If he is quar, he seemed kind o' human; and -'se believe he'll help us now." Arden was on the way to the barn, having just inished a farmer's twelve o'clock dinner, when Hanh nibal entered the yard. An angel of light could wot have been-more welcome than this dusky mes- senger, for he came from the centre of all light and hope now to poor Arden. Then a feeling of alarm o   EDzITH'S TR UE KNIGHT.    3 9 took possession of him. Had anything happened to Edith? He had seen her shrinking shame. Hlad it led her to-and he shuddered at the thought his wild imagination suggested. It was almost a relief- when Hannibal said, "Oh, Mr. Lacey, I'se sure from de way you acted when we fust come, dat you can feel for people in trouble. Miss Edie's berry sick, and I don't know whar to go for a doctor, and she won't have any; but she mus, and right away. Den again, I oughter not leave, for dey's all nearly dead wid trouble and cryin'." "You are a good, faithful fellow," said Arden, heartily; "go back and do all you can for Miss Edith, and I'll bring a doctor myself, and much quicker too than you could." Before Hannibal reached home, Arden galloped past him, and the old man chuckled, "De drunken Laceys' mighty good neighbors when dey's sober." As well may be imagined, recent events, as far as he understood them, had stirred Arden's sensitive nature to the very depths. Hiding his feelings from all save his mother, and often from her; ap- pearing to his neighbors stolid and sullen in the extreme, he was, in fact, in his whole being, like a morbidly-excited nerve. He did not shrink from the world because indifferent to it, but because it -wounded him when coming in contact with it. He seemed so out of tune with society, that it pro- duced only jarring discord. His father's course   320     WHAT CAN SHE DO  brought him many real slights, and these he resented as wA have seen, and he resented fancied slights quite as often, and thus he had cut himself off from the sympathies, and even the recognition, of nearly all. But -what human soul can dwell alone? The true hermit finds in communion with the Divine mind the perfection of companionship. But Ar- den, knew not God. He had heard of Him all his life; but Jove and Thor were images more familiar to his mind than that of his Creator. He loved his mother and sister, but their life seemed a poor, shaded, little nook, where they toiled and moped. And so, to satisfy the cravings of his lonely heart, he had created and peopled an unreal world of his own, in which he dwelt most of the time. As his interest in the real world ceased, his imagination more vividly portrayed the shadowy one, till at last, in- the scenes of poetry and fiction, and the splen- did panorama of history, he thought he might rest satisfied, and find all the society he needed in con- verse with those, whom, by a refinement of spirit- ualism, he could summon to his side from any age or land. He secretly exulted in the still greater magic by which the unreal creatures of poetic thought would come at his volition, and he often smiled to think how royally attended was "old, "drunken Lacey's " son, whom many of the neighbors thought scarcely better than the horses he drove. Thus he lived under-a spell of the past, in a world moon-lighted by sentiment and fancy, sur.     EDITH'S TRUE KNIGHT.      32T rounded by his ideal of those whom he read, and Slhakespeare's vivid, life-like women were better known to him than any of the ladies of Pushton. 1But dreams cannot last in our material world, and ghosts vanish in the sunlight of fact. Woman's nature is as beautiful and fascinating now as when the master-hand of the world's greatest poet delin- eated it, and when living, breathing Edith Allen stepped suddenly among his shadows, seemingly so luminous, they vanished before her, as the stars pale into nothingness, when the eastern sky is aglow with morning. Now, in all his horizon, she only shone; but the past seemed like night, and the present, day. The circumstances under which he had met Edith, had, in brief time, done more to acquaint him with her than years might have accomplished, and for the first time in his life he saw a superior girl with the distorting medium of his prejudice pushed aside. Therefore she was a sudden beauti. ful revelation to him, as vivid as unexpected. He did not believe any such being existed, and indeed there did not, if we consider what he came to ideal- ize Edith into. But a better Edith really lived than the unnatural paragon that he pictured to himself, and the reality was capable of a vast improvement, though not in the direction that his morbid mind would have indicated. The treatment of his sister, the sudden ceasing of all intercourse, and the appearance of. Gus Elliott upon the scene, had cruelly wounded his fair   322     WHA T CAN SHE: DO? ideal, but with a lover's ,faith and poet's fancy he soon repaired the ravages of facts. He assured him- self-that Edith did not know the character of the men who visited her house. Then came Crowl's gossip, the knowledge of her poverty, and her wretched errands to New York to dispose of the relics of the happy past. He gath- ered from such observation as he could maintain without being suspected, by every crumb of gossip that he could pick up (for once he 'listened to gos- sip as if it were gospeD, that they were in trouble, that Edith was looking for work, and that she was so superior to the rest of the family, that they now all deferred to her and leaned upon her. Then, to his deep satisfaction he had seen Elliott, the morn. ing after his scathing repulse, going to the train, and looking forlorn and sadly out of humor, and he was quite sure he had not been near the little cot- tage since. Arden needed but little fact on which- to rear a wondrous superstructure, and here seemed much, and all in Edith's , and hoeed with an intensity beyond language to do something to help her. Then came the tragedy of Zell's flight, Edith's heroic and almost superhuman effort to save her, now followed by her pathetic weakness and suffer- ing, and no knight in the romantic age of chivalry ever more wholly and loyally devoted himself to the -high-born lady of his choice, than did Arden to the poor sick girl at whom the finger off srorn would now be generally pointed in Pushton,   EDI TH'S TR UE KNIGHT.    323      - To come back to our hero, galloping away on his Id farm horse to find a country doctor, may seem short step down from the sublime. And so, per- Laps, it may be to those whose ideal of the sublime only in outward and material things. But to hose who look past these things to the passionate uman heart, the same in, every age, Arden was ani- hated by the same spirit with which he would have ,ought and fought the traditional dragon. Dr. Neak, a new-comer who was gaining some ittle name for skill and success, and was making the most of it, was at home ; but on Arden's hur. ried application, ahemmed, hesitated, colored a little, and at last said: "Look here, Mr. (I beg your pardon, I've not the pleasure of knowing your name), I'm a com- parative stranger in Pushton, and am just gaining some little reputation among the better classes. I would rather not compromise myself by attendance upon that family. If you can't get any one else, and the girl is suffering, of course I'll try and go, but-" "Enough," interrupted Arden, starting up blaz-  ing with wrath.. "You should spell your name with an S. I want a man as well as a physician," and, with a look of utter contempt, he hastened away, leaving the medical man somewhat anxious, not about Edith, but whether he had taken the best course in view of his g-owing reputation. Arden next traced out Dr. Blunt, who readily ,promised to come. He attended all alike, and charged roundly also.   324     T WHA T CAN SHE D0I '"Business is business," was his motto. "People who employ me must expect to pay. After all, I'm the cheapest man in the place, for I tell my patients the truth, and cure them as quickly as. possible." Arden's urgency soon brought him to 'Edith's, side, and his practised eye saw no serious cause for alarm, and having heard more fully the circum- stances, said, "She will be well in a few days if she is kept very quiet, and nothing new sets in. Of course she would be sick after last night. One might as well puts' hand in the fire and not expect it to burn him, as to get very warm and then cool off suddenly without being ill. Her pulse indicat s general depression of her system, and need of rezt. o That's all."             After prescribing remedies ana a tonic, he said, "Let me know if I am needed again," and departed in rather ill humor. Meeting Arden's anxious, questioning face at the gate, he said gruffly,        i "I thought from what you said the girl was dy- ing.- Used up and a bad cold, that'g all. Somewhat feverish yourself, ain't you?" he added meaningly. Though Arden colored under the doctor's satire, he was chiefly conscious of a great relief that his idol was not in danger. His only reply was the sullen, impassive expression he usually turned to- ward the world. As the doctor rode away, Hannibal, joined him, saying,   EDITH'S TRUE KNIGHT.      325 -"Mr. LTacey, you'se a friend in need, and if you only knowed what an angel you'se serving, you wouldn't look so cross." "'Do I look cross?"' asked Arden, his face be- coming friendly in a moment. "Well, it wasn't with you, still less with Miss Edith; for even you cannot serve her more gladly than I will. That old doctor riled me a little, though I can forgive him, since he says she is not seriously ill." "I'se glad you feels your privileges," said Hanni- bal, with some. dignity. "I'se knowed Miss Edie eber since she was a baby, and when we lived on de Avenue, de- biggest and beautifullest in de city come to our house, but none of 'em could compare with my young lady. I don't care what folks say, she's jes as good now, if she be poor, and her sister hab run away, poor chile. De world don't know all; " and old Hannibal shook his white head sadly and reproachfully. His panegyric found strong echo in Arden's heart, but his habit of reticence and sensitive shrinking from showing his feelings to others, permitted him only to say, "I am sure every word you say is more than true, and you will do me a great favor when you let me know how I canrl serve Miss Edith." Hannibal saw that he need waste no more ammu- nition on Arden, so he pulled out the prescriptions, and said: "The Doctor guv me dese, but, Lor bress you, my ole jints is stiff, and I'd be a week in gittin down and back from de willage."   326     WHA. T CAN SHE DOI  "That's enough," interrupted Arden, "you shall have the medicines in half an hour;" and he kept his word. "He is quar," muttered Hannibal, looking after him. "Neber saw a man so 'bligin'. Folks say winegar ain't nothin' to him, but he seems sweet on Miss Edie, sure 'nuff. What 'ud he say, 'You'se do me great favor to tell me how I can serve M liss Edie?' I'se hope, it 'll last," chuckled Hannibal, retiring to his domain in the kitchen, ' 'cause I'se gwine to do him a heap ob favors."   CHAPTER XXII. A MYSTERY. AT Arden's request his mother called in the evening, and also Mrs. Groody, from the hotel. Hannibal met them, and stated the doctor's orders. Mrs. Allen and Laura did not feel equal to facing' any one. Though the old servant was excessively polite, the callers felt rather slighted that they saw no member of the family. They went awaya little chilled in consequence, and contented themselves thereafter by sending a few delicacies and inquiring how Edith was. "If you have any self-respect at all," said Rose Lacey to her mother, " you will not go there again till you are invited. It's rather too great condescen- sion for you to go at all, after what has happened." Arden listened with a black look, and asked, rather sharply, "Will you never learn to distinguish between Miss Edith and the others?" "Yes," said Rose, dryly, " when she gives me a chance." The doctor's view of Edith's case was correct. Her vigorous and elastic constitution soon rallied i from the shock it had received. Hannibal had sent to the village for nutritious diet, which he knew so   328     WHAT CAN SHE DO well .how to prepare, and, after a few days, she was quite herself again. But with returning strength came also a sense of shame, anxiety, and a tortur- ing dread of the future. The money accruing fromn her last sale of jewelry would not pay the debts rest. ing on them now, and she could not hope to earn enough to pay the balance remaining, in addition to their support. Her mother suggested the mortgag- ing of her place. She had at first repelled the idea, but at last entertained it reluctantly. There seemed no other resource. It would put off the evil day of utter want, and might give her time to learn some- thing by which she could compete with trained workers. Then there was the garden. Might not that and the orchard, in time, help them out of their troubles? As the long hours of her convalescence passed, she sat at her window and scanned the little spot with a wistfulness that might have been given to one of Eden-like proportions. She was astonished to see how her strawherries had improved since she hoed them, but noted in dismay that both they and the rest of the garden were growing very weedy. When the full knowledge of their poverty and danger dawned upon her, she felt that it would not be right for Malcom to come any more. At the same time she could not explain things to him; so she sent a  written request through the mail for his bill, telling him not to come any more. This action following the evening when Gus Elliott had surprised   A MYSTERY.        329 her in -the garden, perplexed and rather nettled Malcom, who was, to use hiss own expression, S" a bit tetchy." Their money had grown so scarce that Edith could not pay the bill, and was ashamed to go to see him till there was some prospect of her doing so. Thus Malcom, though disposed to be very friendly, was lost to her at this critical time, and her garden suffered accordingly. She and Han- -nibal had done what they could, but of late her ill- ness, and the great accession of duties resting on the old servant, had caused complete neglect in her little plantation of fruit and vegetables. Thus;  while all her crops were growing well, the weeds were gaining on them, and even Edith knew that the vigor of evil was in them, and that, uncheckedj they would soon make a tangled swamp of that one little place of hope. She could rnot ask Hannibal to work there now, for he was overburdened already. Laura seemed so feeble and crushed that her strength was scarcely equal to taking care of her mother, and the few lighter duties of housework. Therefore, though the June sunshine rested on the little garden, and all nature seemed in the rapture- of its early summer life, poor, practical Edith saw only the pestiferous weeds that threatened to destro) her one slender prospect of escape from environing difficulties. At last she turned away. Tl'o the sad and suffering, scenes most full of cheer and beauty often seem the most painful mockery. She brooded over her affairs most of the day, dwelling specially on the suggestion of a mortgage,   ,   330     WHA, r CAN SHE do? She felt extreme reluctance in -periling her home, Then again she said to herself, "It will at least give me time, and perhaps the place will be sold for debt, for we must live." The next morning she slept late, her weary, over- taxed frame asserting its need. But she rose greatly refreshed, and it seemed tht her strength had come back again. With returning vigor hopefulness re. vived. She felt some cessation of the weary, aching sorrow at her heart. The world is phosphorescent to the eyes of youth, and even engulfing waves of misfortune will sometimes gleam with sudden brightness. The morning light also brought Edith a pleasant surprise, for, as she was dressing, her eyes eagerly sought the strawherry bed. She had been thinking, "-If H only continue to gain in this style, I .will soon be able myself to attack the weeds." Therefore, instead of the helpless look, such as she gave yesterday, her glance had something vengeful and threatening in it. But the moment she opened the lattice, so that she could see, an exclamation came from her lips, and she threw back the blinds, in order that there might be no mistake as to the wonder that startled her. What magic had transformed the little place since, in the twi- light of the previous evening, she had given the last discouraged look in that direction? There was scarcely a weed to be seen in the strawherry bed, They had not only been cut off, but raked away and here and there she could see a berry reddening   ' A MYSTERY.      331 n the morning sun. In addition, some o f her most mportant vegetables, and her prettiest flower bor- ter, had been cleaned a nd nicely dressed. A long   . row of Dan O'Rourk peas, that had commenced to sprawl on the ground, was now hedged inbybrush; and, better still, thirty cedar poles stood tall'and straight among her Limabeans, that had been vainly feeling tound for a support the last few days. Her first impulse was to clap -her hands with delight and exclaim:  "How, in the name of wonder, could he do it all in a night! Oh, Malcom, you are a canny Scotchman, but you put the'black art '.to very white uses." She dressed in excited haste, meaning to ques. tion Hannibal, but, as she left her room, Laura met her, and said, in a tone of the deepest des- "Mother seems very ill. She has not felt like herself since that dreadful night, but we did not' like to tell you, fearing it would put back your The rift in the heavy clouds, through which the sun had gleamed for a moment, now closed, and a deeper gloom seemed to gather round them. In sudden revulsion Edith said, bitterly: "Are we to be persecuted to the end? Cannot the heavy hand of misfortune be lifted a moment? She found her mother suffering from a ,o' nervous fever, and quite delirious. Hatnnibal was at once despatched for the doctor ,   332     WHATar CAN SHE DO? who. having examined Mrs. Allen's symptoms, shook his head, saying: Nth othing but good nursing will bring her through Edith's heart sank like lead. What prospect was there for work now, even if Mrs. Groody gave it to her, as she promised? She saw nothing but the part of a weary watcher, for perhaps several weeks. She hesitated no longer, but resolved to mortgage her place at once. Her mother must have delicacies and good attendance, and she must have time to ex- tricate herself from the difficulties into which she had been brought by false steps at the beginning. There*\ fore she told Hannibal to give her an earlylunch, after which she would walk to the village. "You is'nt able," said he earnestly. "Oh yes, I am," she replied; " better able than to stay home and worry. I must have something settled, and my mind at rest, even for a little while, or I will go distracted." Then she added "Did you see Malcom here early this morning." "No, Miss Edie, he hasn't been here." "Go look at the garden." He returned with eyes dilated in wonderand asked quickly,  "Miss Edie, when was all dat done." "Between dark last night and when I got up tLis morning. It seems like magic, don't it? But of course it is Malcom's work. I only wish I could see him. '  But Hannibal shook his head ominously and said   A MYSTER Y.       .333 with emphasis, "Dat little Scotchman couldn't scratch around like dat, even if de Debel was -arter him. 'Taint his work." "Why, whose else could it be?" asked Edith, sipping a strong cup of coffee, with which she was fortifying herself for the walk. Hannibal only shook his head with a very trou- bled expression, but at last he ventured, "If tis a spook, I hope it won't do nothing wuss to us." Even across Edith's pale face a wan smile flitted at this solution of the mystery, and she said, "Why, Hannibal, you foolish old fellow. The idea of a ghost hoeing a strawherry bed and stick- ing in bean-poles!" ,But Hannibal's superstitious nature was deeply stirred. He had been under a severe strain himself of late, and the succession of sorrows and strange experiences was telling on him as well as the others He could not indulge in a nervous fever, like Mrs. Allen, but he had reached that stage when he could easily see visions, and tremble before the slightest vestige of the supernatural. So he replied a little doggedly; "Spooks does a hqap ob quar tings, Miss Edie. I'd tink it was Massa Allen, ony I knows dat he neber hab a hoe in his hand all his life. I doesn't like it. I'd radder hab de weeds." "O Hannibal, Hannibal! I couldn't believe it of you. I'll go and see Malcom, just to satisfy you." 4  *       '    ' ' . -.,-   CHAPTER XXIII. A DANGEROUS STEP. EDITI took her deed, and went first to Mr. EHard. There was both coldness,and curiosity in his manner, .but he could gather little from Edith's face through her thick vail. She had a painful shrinking from meeting people again after what had happened, and this was greatly increased by the curious and significant looks she saw turned toward her as soon as it was surmised who she was. Mr. Hard promptly declined to lend any money, He "A ever did such things," he said. "Where would I be apt to get it?" asked Edith despondently. "I scarcely know.  Money is scarce, and people don't like to lend it on country mortgages, especially when there may be trouble. Lawyer Keen might give you some information." To his office Edith went, with slow, heavy steps, and presented her case. Mr. Keen was a   red-faced, burly-looking man, hiding the traditional shrewdness of a village lawyer under a bluff, outspoken manner. He had a sort of good-nature, which, though not leading him to help others who were in trouble, kept him from trying to   A DANGCEROUS STEP.     335  get them into more trouble, and he quite prided himself on this. He heard Edith partly through, anld then interrupted her, saying: "Couldn't think of it, Miss. Widows, orphans, -and churches, are institutions on which a fellow call never foreclose. I'll give you good advice, and won't charge you anything for it. You had bettert keep out of debt." "But I must have the money," said Edith. "Then you have come to the wrong shop for it," replied the lawyer, coolly. "Here's Crowl, now, he lends where I wouldn't. He's got money of his own, while I invest mainly for other people." Edith's attention was thus directed to another red-faced man, whom, thus far, she had scarcely noticed, though he had been watching her with the. closest scrutiny. He was quite corpulent, past middle age, and in height not much taller than her- self. He was quite bald, and had what seemed a black moustache, but Edith's quick eye noted that it was unskilfully dyed. There seemed a wide ex. panse in his heavy, flabby cheeks, and the rathet puggish nose looked insignificant between them. A slight tobacco stain in one corner of his mouth did not increase his attractions to Edith, and she posi. tively shrank from the expression of his small, cunrt ning black eyes. He was dressed both loudly and shabbily, and a great breastpin was like a blotch upon his rumpled shirt-bosom. "Let me see your deed, my dear," he said, with coarse familiarity.  ,---.' "  ' ' -:'-.'";, :   ;336     WHirsA T CAN SHE DOI  "My name is Miss Alien," replied Edith, with dignity. The man paid little heed to her rebuke, but looked over the deed with slow and microscopic scrutiny. At last he said to Edith, whom nothing but dire necessity impelled to have dealings with so dis- agreeable a person, "Will you come with me to my office?" Reluctantly she followed. At first she had a strong impulse to have nothing to do with him, but then had thought, "It makes no difference of whom I borrow the money, for it must be paid in any case, and perhaps I can't get it anywhere else." "Are you sure there is no other mortgage?" he asked. "Yes," replied Edith. "How much do you want?" "I will try to make four hundred answer."' "I suppose you know how hard it is to borrow money now," said Mr. Crowl, in a depressing man- ner, " especially in cases like this. I don't believe you'd get a dollar anywhere else in town. Even where everything is good and promising, we usually get a bonus on such a loan. The best I could do would be to let you have three hundred and sixty on such a mortgage." "Then give me my deed. The security is good, and I'm not willing to pay more than seven'per cent." Old Crowl looked a moment at her resolute face, beautiful even in its pallor and pain, and a new thought seemed to strike him.   A DANGEROUCS S'EP.     337 W"Well, well," said he, withl an awkward show of gallantry, t' one can't do business with a pretty girl aF with a man. You shall make your own terms." "I wish to make no terms whatever," said Edith, frigidly. "I only expect what is right and just." "And I'm the man that'll do what's right and ju ;t when appealed to by the fair unfortunate," said Mr. Crowl, with a wave of his hand. Edith's only response to this sentiment was a frown, and an impatient tapping of the floor with her foot. "Now, see how I trust you," he continued, filling out a check. "There is the money. I'll draw up the papers, and you may sign them at your leisure. Only just put your name to this receipt, which gives the nature of our transaction; " and, in a scrawling hand, he soon stated the case. It was with strong misgivings that Edith took the money and gaxe her signature, but she did not see what else to do, and she was already very weary. 9"You may call again the first time you are in the village, and by that time I'll have things fixed up. You see now what it is to have a friend in need." Edith's only reply was a bow, and she hastened to the bank. The cashier looked curiously at her, smiled a little significant smile as he saw Crowl's check, which she did not like, but, at her request, placed it, and what was left from the- second sale of jewelry, to her credit, and gave her a small "heck-book. b15 #     \         .  ,--.   CHAPTER XXIV. SCORN AND KINDNESS. THOUGH her strength hardly seemed equal to it, she determined to go and see Malcomn, for she felt very grateful to him. And yet, the little time' she had been in the village made her fear to speak to him or any one again, and she almost felt that she would like to shrink into some hidden place and die. Quiet, respectable Pushton had been dreadfulD scandalized jby Zell's elopement with a man who by one brief visit, had gained such bad notoriety. Those who had stood aloof, surmised, and doubted about the Allens before, now said, triumphantly, "I told you so." Good, kind, Christian people -were dteeply pained that such a thing could have happened; and it came to be the general opinion that the Allens were anything but an acquisition to the neighborhood. "If they are going to bring that style of men here, the sooner they move away the better," was a frequent remark. All save the " baser sort" shrank from having much to do with them, and again Edith was insulted by the bold advances of some brazen   SCORN .4ND KINDNESS. 3Sg clerks and shop-boys as she passed along. She also saw significant glances and whisperings, and once -of twice detected a pointing finger. With cheeks burning with shame and knees trembling with weakness, she reached Malcom's gate, to which she clung panting for a moment, and then passed in. The little man had his coat off, and, stooping in his strawherry bed, he did look very small indeed. Edith approached quite near be. fore he noticed her. He suddenly straightened himself up almost as a jumping-jack might, and gave her a sharp, surprised look. He had heard the gossip in several distorted forms, but what hurt him most was that she did not come or send to him. But when he saw her standing before him with her head bent down like a moss rosebud wilting in the sun, when he met her timid deprecating glance, his soft heart relented instantly, and coming toward her he said: "An ha' ye coom to see ould Malcom at last? What ha' I dune that I should be sae forgotten?" "You were not forgotten, Mr. McTrump. God knows that I have too few friends to forget the best of them," answered Edith, in a voice of tremulous pathos. After that Malcom was wax in her hands, and with moistened eyes he stood gazing at her in un- disguised admiration.  "I have been through deep trouble, Mr. McTrump," continued she, " and perhaps you, like so many others, may think me not fit to speak to   340     MrWHA T CAN SHE, DO  you any more. Besides, I have been very sick, and really ought not to be out to-day. Indeed I feel very weak. Isn't there some place where I could sit down?" "Now God forgie me for an uncoo Highlander." cried Malcom, springing forward, " to think that I suld let ye ston there, like a tall, white, swayin' calla lily, in the rough wind. Take me arm till I support ye to the best room o' me house." Edith did take and cling to it with the feeling of one ready to fall. '"Oh, Mr. McTrump, you are too kind," she mur. mured. "Why suld I not be kind?" he said, heartily, *' when I see ye xiipt by the wourld's unkindness? Why suld I not be kind?  Is the rose there to blame because a weed has grown alongside? Ye could na help it that the wild bird flitted, and I heerd how ye roon like a brave lassie to stop her. But the evil wourld.!s quick to see the bad and slow to see the gude." And Malcom escorted her like a "Tleddy o' high degree " to his little parlor, and there she told him and his wife all her trouble, and Malcom seemed afflicted with a sudden cold in his head. Then Mrs. McTrump bustled in and out in a breezy eagerness to make her comfortable. "Ye're a stranger in our toon," she saidl, " and sae Hwas once mysel, an' I ken how ye feel." "An the Gude Book, which I hope ye read," added the gallant Malcom, " says hoo in entertain in a stranger ye may ha' an angel aroond."   SCORN AN D KINDNESS.     341 "1Oh, Mr. McTrump," said Edith, with peony-like face, "Hannibal is the only one who calls me that, and he don't know any better." "Why suld he know onybetter," responded Mal. corn, quickly. "I ha never seen an angel, na mair than I ha seen a goolden harp, but I'm a-thinkin a modist bonny lassie like yoursel, coomns as near to one as anything can in this wourld." "But, Mr. McTrump," said Edith, with a half pa- thetic, half comic face, "I am in such deep trouble that I will soon grow old and wrinkled, so I shall not be an angel long." "Na, na, dinna say that," said Malcom earnestly. "An ye will, ye may keepit the angel a-growin within ye alway, though ye live as old as Methuselah. D'ye see this wee brown seed? There s a mornin- glory vine hidden in it, as would daze your een at the peep o' day wi' its gay blossoms. An ye see my ould gude wife there? Ah, she will daze the een o' the greatest o' the earth in the bright spring- time o' the Resurrection; and though I'm a little mon here, it may be I'll see o'er the heads of soom up there." "An ye had true humeelity ye'd be a-hopin to get there, instead of expectin to speir o'er the heads o' ye're betters," said his wife in a rebuking tone. "'A-hopin to get there!'" said Malcom with some warmth.  Why suld I hope when ' Iknow that my Redeemer liveth?" Edith's eyes filled with wistful tears, for the quaint talk of these old people suggested a hope and   * 342   WYHA T CAN SHE DO? faith that she knew nothing of. But, in a low voice, she said, "Why does God let his creatures suffer so much?" "Bless your heart, puir child, He suffered maif than ony on us," said Malcom tenderly. "But ye'll learn it a' soon. He who fed the famishin would bid ye eat noo.- But wait a bit till ye see what I'll brifig ye." In a moment he was back with a dainty basket of Triomphe de Gand strawherries, and Edith uttered an exclamnation of delight as she inhaled their deli- cious aroma. They are the first ripe the season, an noo see what the gude wife will do with them." Soon' their hulls were off, and, swimming in a saucer of cream, they were added to the dainty little lunch that Mrs. McTrump had prepared. ( Oh!" exclaimed Edith, drawing a long breath, "You can't know how you ease my poor sore heart. t began to think all the world was against me." At this Malcom beat such a precipitate retreat that he half stumbled over a chair, but outside the door he ventured to say: ' An ye coom out I'll cut ye a posy before ye go." But Edith saw him rub his rough sleeve across his eyes as he passed the window. His wife said, in a grave gentle tone, '"Would ye might learn to know Him who said, * Be of good cheer, I have overcoile the wourld.'" Edith shook her head sadly, and said, ' I don't understand Him, and He seems far off."   SCOAN AND KINDNLESS.    343 "It's only seemin, me dear," said the old woman kindly; but, as Malcom says, ye'll learn it a' by and by." Mrs. McTrump was one of those simple souls who never presume to " talk religion " to any one. "' I can ony venture what I hope 'll be a ' word in season ' noo and then, as the Maister gies me a chance," she would say to her husband. Though she did not know it, she had spread before Edith a Gospel feast, and her genuine, hearty sympathy was teaching more than eloquent sermons could have done, and already the grateful girl was questioning, "What makes these people differ so from others?" With some dismay she saw how late it was grow- ing, and hastened out to Malcom, who had cut an exquisite little bouquet for her, and had another baske of berries for her to take to her mother. "Mr. McTrump," said Edith, "it's time we had a settlement; your-kindness I never can, or expect to repay, but I am able now to carry out my agrees * ment." "Don't bother me wi' that noo," said Malcom,- rather testily, "I ha no time to make oot your ac- coont in the hight o' the season.' Let it ston till I ha time; an ye might help me soomtimes make up posies for the grand folk at the hotel. But how does your garden sin' ye dismissed ould Mal- comrn?" "Oh, Mr. McTrump," said Edith, slyly, " do you   j44     CWrHAT CAN SHE DO? know you almost scared old HTannibal out of his wits by the wonders you wrought last night or this morning in that same garden you inquire about so innocently. How- can you work so fast and hard? "The woonders I wrought! Indeed I've not been near the garden sin ye told me not to coom. Ye could hardly expect otherwise of a Scotchman." "Who, then, could it be " said Edith, a little startled herself now, and she explained the mystery of the garden. He was as nonplussed as herself, but, scratching his bushy head, he said, with a canny look, "I wud be glad if Hannibal's ' spook,' as he ca's it, would coom doon and hoe a bit for me,'" and Edith was so cheered and refreshed that she could even. join him in the laugh. They sent her away enveloped in the fragrance of strawherries and roses from the little basket she carried. But the more grateful aroma of human sylnpathy seemed to create a buoyant atmosphere around her; and she passed back through the vil- !age strengthened and armed against the cold or scornful looks of those who, knowing her to be "wounded," had not- even the grace to pass by indifferently "' on the other side.' ,               * %   CHAPTER XXV A HORROR OF GREAT DARKNESS BY the time Edith reached home the transient strength and transient brightening of the skies seemed to pass away. Her mother was no better. She saw too plainly the grisly specters, care, want, and shame upon her hearth, to fear any good fairy that left such traces as she saw in her garden. But the mystery troubled her; she longed to know who it wa. As she mused upon it on her way. home, Arden Lacey suddenly occurred to her, and there was a glimmer of a smile and a faint increase of color on her pale face. But she did not suggest her suspicion to Hannibal, when he eagerly asked if it were Malcom. "No, strange to say, it was not," said Edith. "Who could it have been?" Hannibal's face fell, and he looked very solemn. "Sumpen awful 's goin to happen, Miss Edie," he said, in a sepulchral tone. Edith broke into a sudden reckless laugh, and said, "I think something awful is happening about as fast-as it can. But never mind, Hannibal, we'll watch to-night, and perhaps he will come again." "O, Miss Edie, I'se hope you'll 'scuse me. I couldn't watch for a spook to save my life. I'se   346     WHAT CAN SHE DO! gwine to bed as soon as it's dark, and cover up my head till mornin'." "Very well,' said Edith, quietly. "I'm going to sit up with mother to-night, and if it comes again, I'll see it."  "De good Lord keep you safe, Miss Edie," said Hannibal, tremblingly. You'se know I'd die for - you in a m/nit; but I'se couldn't watch for a spook nohow," and Hannibal crept away, looking as if the very worst had now befallen them. Edith was too weary and sad even to smile at the absurd superstition of her old servant, for, with her practical, positive nature she could scarcely understand how even the most ignorant could har- bor such delusions. She said to Laura, "Let me sleep till nine o'clock, and then I will watch till morning. Laura did not waken her till ten. After Edith had shaken off her lethargy, she said, ' Why, Laura, you look ready to faint!" With a despairing little cry, Laura threw herself on the floor, and buried her face in her sister's lap, sobbing: "I am ready to faint-body and soul. O Edie, Edie, what shall we do? Oh, that I were sure death was an eternal sleep, as some say, how gladly I would close my eyes to-night and never wish to open them again! My heart is ashes, and my hope is dead. And yet I am afraid to die, and more afraid to live. Ever since--Zell-went-the future has been-a terror to me. Edith," she con. t   A HORROR OF GREAT DARKNESS.    34; tinned, after a moment, in a low voice, that trem. bled and was full of dread, "Zell has not written- the silence of the grave seems to have swallowed her. He zhas not married her!" and an agony of grief convulsed Laura's slight frame. Edith's eyes grew hard and tearless, and she said sternly, "It were better the grave had swallowed her than such a gulf of infamy." Laura suddenly became still, her sobs ceasing. Slowly she raised such a white, terror-stricken face, that Edith was startled. She had never seen her elder sister, once so stately and proud, then so apathetic, moved like this. "Edith," she said, in an awed whisper, " what is there before us? Zell's flight has revealed to me where we stand, like a' flash of lightning, and ever since I have brooded over our situation, till it seems I would go mad. There's an awful gulf before us, and every day we are being pushed nearer to it;" and Laura's large blue eyes were dilated with horror, as if she saw it. "Mother is going to die," she continued, in a tone that chilled Edith's soul. "Our money will soon be gone; we then will be driven'away even from this poor shelter, out upon the streets-to New York, or somewhere. Edith, O Edith, don't you see the gulf? What else is before us?" "Honest work is before me," said Edith, almost fiercely. "I will compel the world to give me a place, at least, entitled to respect." Laura shook her head despairingly. "'You may   343     WHHA T CAN SHE DO? struggle back and up to wherd you are safe. You are good and strong. But there are so many poor girls in the world like me, who are not good and strong. Everything seems to combine to push a helpless, friendless woman towards that gulf. Poor rash, impu'lsive Zell saw it, and could not endure the slow, remorseless pressure, as one might be driven o'ver a precipice, and one she loved seemed to stand ready to break the fall. I understand her stony, reckless face now." "Oh, Laura, hush!" said Edith, desperately. "I must speak," she went on, in the same low voice, so full of dread, "' or my brain will burst. I have thought and thought, and seen that awful gulf grow nearer and nearer, till at times it seemed I should shriek with terror. For two nights I have not slept. Oh, why were we not taught something better than dressing and dancing, and those hollow superficial accomplishments that only mock us now, Why was not my mind and body developed into something like strength? I would gladly turn to the coarsest drudgery, if I could only be safe. But after what has happened, no good people will have anything to do with us, and I am a feeble, helpless creature, that can only shrink and tremble as I am pushed nearer and nearer." Edith seemed turning into stone, herself para- lyzed by Laura's despair. After a moment Laura continued, with a perceptible shudder in her voice: "There is no one to break my fall. Oh, that I was not afraid tc die. That seems the only resource to   A HORROR OF GREAT DARKEVESS. 349 such as I. If I'could just end it all by becoming nothing  " "Laura, Laura," cried Edith, starting up, " cease your wild mad words., You are sick and morbid. You are more delirious than mother is. We can get work; there are good people who will take care of us." "I have seen nothing that looks like it," said Laura, in the same despairing tone. "I have read of just such things, and I see how it all must end." "Yes, that's just it," said Edith, impatiently, "You have read so many wild unnatural stories of life that you are ready to believe anything that is horrible. Listen, I have over four hundred dollars in the bank." "How did you get it," asked Laura, quickly. "I have followed mother's suggestion, and mort. gaged the place." Laura sank into a chair, and became so det':hly white that Edith thought she would fairnt. A.' last she gasped, "Don't you see?   Even you in your str:r#gth can't help yourself. You are being pushed cn, too. You said you would not follow mother's advice again, because it always led to trouble. You said, again and again, you would not mortgage the, place, and yet you have done it. Now it's all cleat. That, mortgage will be foreclosed, and then .we will be turned out, and then  " and she covered her face with her hands. "Don't you see," she said, ill   35s     W EHAT C4.NA2 SHE DO  a muffled tone, " the great black hand rea'ching cut of the darkness and pushing us down and nearer? O11h, that I wasn't afraid to die." Edith was startled. Even her positive healthful nature began to yield to the contagion of Laura's morbid despair. She felt that she must break the spell and be alone. By a strong effort she tried to speak in her natural tone and confidence. She tried to comfort the desperate woman by endear- ing epithets, as if she were a child. She spoke of those simple restoratives which are so often and vainly prescribed for mortal wounds, sleep and ;rest. "Go to bed, poor child," she urged, "all will look differently in the sunlight to-morrow." But Laura scarcely seemed to heed her. With weak, uncertain steps she drew near the bed, and turned the light on her mother's thin, flushed face and stood, with clasped hands, looking wistfully at her. "Yes, my dear," muttered Mrs. Allen in her delirium, " both your father and myself would give our full approval to your marriage with Mr. Goul- den." The poor woman made watching doubly hard to her daughters, since she kept /recalling to them the happy past in all its minutiae. Laura turned to Edith with a smile -that was inexpressibly sad, and said, "What a mockery it all is! There seems nothing real in this world -but pain and danger. Oh: that I was not afraid :to die." !  -    A ItORROR OF GREAT E DA;RKNrESS.  3:51! "Laura, Laura! go to your rest," exclaimed Edith, "or you will lose your reason. Come;'" -and she half carried the poor creature to her room, , Now, leave the door ajar," she said, " for!f mother is worse I will call you." Edith sat down to her weary task as a watcher, and never before, in all the sad preceding weeks, had her heart been so heavy, and boding of evil. Laura's words kept repeating themselves to her, and ming- ling- with those of her mother's delirium, thus strangely blending the past and the present. Could it be true that they were helpless in the hands of a cruel, remorseless fate, that was pushing them down? Could it be true that all her struggles and courage would be in vain, and that each day was only bring- ing them nearer to the desperation of utter want? She could not disguise from herself that Laura's dreadful words had a show of reason, and that, per- haps, the mortgage she had given that day meant that they would soon be without home or shelter in the great, pitiless world. But, with set teeth and white face, she muttered, "Death first." Then, with a startled expression, she anxiously asked herself: "Was that what Laura meant when she kept saying,'Oh, if I wasn't afraid to die!' "She went to her sister's door and listened. Laura's movements within seemed to satisfy her, and she returned to the sick-room and sat down again. Putting her hand upon her heart, she murmured: "I am completely unnerved to-night. I don't ;  .          .       ,   352      WHA4 CAN c SHE DO! understand myself; " and she looked almost as pale and despairing as Laura. She was, in truth, in the midst of that " horror of great darkness " that comes to so many sti uggling souls in a world upon which the shadow bf sin rests so heavily.   CHAPTER XXVI. FRIEND AND SAVIOUR. vK NOWING of no other source of help save an  earthly one, her thoughts reverted to the old Scotch people that she had recently visited. Their sunlighted garden, and happy, homely life, their simple faith, seemed the best antidote for her present morbid tendencies. "If the worst comes to the worst, I think they would take us in for a little while, till some way opened," she thought. "Oh, that I had their belief in a better life, then it wouldn't seem so dreadful to suffer in this one. Why have I never read the ' Gude Book,' as they call it? But I never seemed to understand it; still, H must say, that I never really tried to. Perhaps God is angry with us, and is punishing us for so forgetting Him. I would rather think that, than to feel so forgotten and lost sight of. It seems as if God didn't see or care. It seems as if I could cling to the harshest father in the world, if he would only protect and help me. A God of wrath, that I have heard clergymen preach of, is not so dreadful to me as a God who forgets, and leaves his creatures to struggle alone. - Our minister was so cold and philosophical, and presented a God that seemed so far off, that I felt there could never   354     WHA T CAN SHE DO' be anything between Him and me. He talked about- a holy, infinite Being, who dwelt alone in unap. proachable majesty; and I want some one to stoop down and love and help poor, little me. He talked about a religion of purity and good works, and love to our fellow-men. I don't know how to work for myself, much less for others, and it seems as if nearly all my fellow-creatures hated and scorned me. and I am afraid of them; so I don't see what chance there is for such as us. If we had only remained rich, and lived on the Avenue, such a religion wouldn't be so hard. It seems strange that the Bible should teach him and old Malcom so differ- ently.  But I suppose he is wiser, and understands it better. Perhaps it's the flowers that teach Mal- com, for he always seems drawing lessons from them."  Then came the impulse to get the Bible and read it for herself. "The impulse!" from whence did it come? When Edith felt so orphaned and alone, forgot- ten even of God, then the Divine Father was nearest his child. When, in her bitter extremity, at this lonely midnight hour she realized her need and helplessness as never before, her great Elder Bro- ther was waiting beside her. The impulse was divine. The Spirit of God was leading her as He is seeking to lead so many. It only remained for her to follow these gentle im- pulses, not to be pushed into the black gulf that de. Psairing Laura dreaded, but to be led into the deep * *!   FRIEND A D SA VIOLt R.    35 peace of a loving faith. She was about to be taught the blessed truth that God is " not far from every one of us, if haply we might feel after Him and find Him." She went down into the parlor to get the Bible that in her hands had revealed the falseness and baseness of Gus Elliott, and the thought flashed through her mind like a good omen, "This book stood between me and evil once before." She took it to the light and rapidly turned its pages, trying to  find some clue, some place of hope, for she was sadly unfamiliar with it. Was it her trembling fingers alone that turned the pages? No ; He who inspired the guide she con- sulted, guided her, for soon her eyes fell upon the sentence : "Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest." The words came with such vivid power and mean- ing that she was startled, and looked around as if some one had spoken to her. They so perfectly met her need that it seemed they must be addressed directly to her. "Who was it that said these words, and what right had He to say them?" she queried eagerly, and keeping her finger on the passage as if it might be a clue out of some fatal labyrinth, she turned the leaves backward and read more of Him with the breathless interest that some poor burdened soul might have listened eighteen centuries ago to, a rumor of the great Prophet who had suddenly ap.   356     WHAT CAN SHE DOt peared with signs and wonders in Palestine. Then she turned and read again and again the sweet words that first arrested her attention. TiLey seemed more luminous and hope-inspiring every moment, as their significance dawned upon her like the coming of day after night. Her clear, positive mind could never take a vague, dubious impression of anything, and with a long- drawn breath she said, with the emphasis of perfect conviction: "If He were a mere man, as I have been taught to believe, He had no right to say these words. It would be a bitter, wicked mockery for man-or angel to speak them. Oh, can it be that it was God himself in human guise? I could trust such a God." Again, with glowing cheeks and parted lips, she commenced reading, and in her eyes was the grow- ing light of a great hope. The upper room of that poor little cottage was becoming a grand and sacred place. Heaven, that honors the deathless soul above all localities, was near. The God who was not in the vast and gold- incrusted temple on Mount Moriah, sat in humble guise at "Jacob's well," and said to one of His poor guilty creatures: ".I that speak unto thee am He.' Cathedral domes and cross-tipped spires indicated the Divine presence on every hand in superstitious Rome, but it would seem that he was near only to as poor monk creeping up Pilate's staircase. Though the wealth of the world should combine to build a   -FRIEND AND SA VIOUR.    357 colossal church, filling it with every sacred emblem and symbol, and causing its fretted roof to resound with unceasing choral service, it would not be such. a claimn upon the great Father's heart as a weak, pitiful cry to Him from the least of his children. Though Edith knew it not, that Presence, without which all temples are vain, had come to her as freely, as closely, as truly as when it entered the cottage. at Bethany, and Mary " sat at Jesus' feet and heard His word." Even to her, in this night of trouble, in this stony wilderness of care and fear, as to God's trembling servant of old, a ladder of light was let down from heaven, and on it her faith would climb up to the peace and rest that is above, and, therefore undisturbed by the storms that rage on earth. But jit is God's way to m. ake us free through truth. Christ, when on earth, did not deal with . men's souls as with their bodies. The latter he touched into instantaneous cure; to the former He appealed with patient instruction and entreaty. To the former revealed Himself by word and deed, and said : In view of what I prove myself to be will you trust me? Will you follow me? In words which, though spoken so long ago, are still the living utterances of the Spirit to every seeking soul, He was now speaking to Edith, and she listened with the wonder and hope that might have stirred the heart of some sorrowing maiden like herself, when His voice was accompanied by the musical chime of waves breaking on the shores of A                   .   3;38    WrHA T CA V SHE DO I Galilee, or the rustle of winds through the grey olive leaves. - Edith came to the source of all truth with a mind as fresh and unprejudiced as that of one who saw and heard Jesus for the first time, as, in his mission journeys, he entered some little town of the Holy Land. She had never thought much about Him, and had no strong preconceived opinions. She was almost utterly ignorant of the creeds and symbols of men, and Christ was not to her, as He is to so many, the embodiment of a system and the incarna- tion of a doctrine-a vague, half realized truth. When she thought of him at all, it had been as a great, good man, the most famous religious teacher of the past, whose life had nobly " adorned a tale and pointed a tnoral." But this would not answer any more. "What could a man, dead and- buried centuries ago, do for me now?" she asked, bitterly. "I want one who can with right speak these words, "' Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.'" And as, with finger still clinging to this passage, she read of miracle and parable,' now trembling almost under -the 4 "Sermon on the Mount," now tearful under the tender story of the prodigal, the feeling came in upon her soul like the rising tide, "This was not mere man." Then, with an awe she had never felt before, she -followed him to Gethsemane, the. High Priest's palace, to Pilate's judgment-hall, and from thence   FRIENVD AND SA-VIOUR.    . 59 to Golgotha, and it seemed to her one long "Via Dolorosa." With white lips she murmured, with-the centurion, "Truly this man was the Son of God." She was reading the wonderfuil story for the first time in its true connection, and the Spirit of God was her guide and teacher. When she came tc Mary " weeping without at the sepulchre," her own eyes were streaming, and it seemed as if she were weeping there herself. But when' Jesus said, in a tone perhaps never heard before or since in this world, ' Mary," it seemed that to herself He was speaking, and her heart responded, "Rabboni--Master." She started up and paced the little room, thrilling with excitement. "How blind I have been," she exclaimed-" hw utterly blind! Here I have been struggling alone all these weary weeks, with scarcely hope for this world and none for the next, when I might have had such a friend and helper all the time. Can I be deceived? Can this sweet way of light out of our thick darkness be a delusion?" She went to where her little Bible lay open at the passage, "Come unto me," and bowing her head upon it, pleaded as simply and sincerely as the Syro- Phoenician mother might have pleaded for her child in the very presence of the human Saviour, - "O Jesus, I am heavily laden. I labor under burdens greater than I can bear. Divine Saviour, help me." In answer she expected some vague exaltation of   3    -o   WEA r CAN SHE D0  soul, or an exquisite sense of peace, as the burdct was rolled away. There was nothing of the kind, but only an im. pulse to go to Laura. She was deeply disappointed. She seemed to have climbed such a lofty height that she might almost look into heaven, and con- firm her faith forever, and only a simple earthly duty was revealed to her. Her excited mind, that had been expanding with the divinest mysteries, was reacting into quietness, and the impression was so strong that she must go to Laura, that she thought her sister had been calling her, and she, in her in. tense preoccupation, had heard her as in a dream. Still keeping the little Bible in her hand, she-went to Laura's room. Through the partially open door she -saw, with a sudden chill of fear, that the bed sad not been slept in. Pushing the door open, she looked eagerly around with a strange dread growing upon her. Laura was writing at a table with her back towards the entrance. There was a strong odor of laudanum in the room, and a horrible thought blanched Edith's cheek. Stealing, with noiseless tread across the intervening space, with hand pressed upon her heart to still its wild throbbings, she looked over her sister's shoulder, and followed the tracings of her pen with dilating eyes. "a Mother, Edith, farewell! When you read these sad words I shall be dead. I fear death-I cannot tell you how I fear it, but I fear that dreadful gulf which daily grows nearer more. I must die. There is no other resource for a poor, weak woman like   FRIEND AND SA VIOUR.     361 me. If I were only strong-if I had only been taught something-but I am helpless. Do not be too hard uIpon poor little Zell. Her eyes were blinded by a false love; she did not see the black gulf as I see it. If God cares for what such poor forlorn creatures as I do, may He fMigive. I have thought till my brain reels. I have tried to pray, but hardly knew what I was praying to. I don't understand God--He is far off. The world scorns us. There is none to help.-- There is no other remedy save the drug at my side, which will soon bring sleep which I hope will be dreamless. Fare- well! "Your poor, trembling, despairing "LAURA." Every sentence was written with a sigh that might seem the last that the burdened soul could give, and every line was blotted with tears that fell from her dim eyes. Edith saw that the -poor, thin face was pinched and wan with misery, and that the pal- lor of death had already blanched even her lips, and, with a shudder of horror, her eyes fell on a phial of laudanum at Laura's left hand, and from which she was partially turned away, in the act of writing. With an ecstatic thrill of joy, she now understood how her prayer had been answered. How -could there have been rest-how could there have been peace--if this awful tragedy had been consum- mated? With one devout, grateful glance upward, she 16   362     WHA T-CAN SHE DO? silently took away the fatal drug, and laid her Bible 'down in its place. Laura finished her letter, leaned back, and mur. mured a long',trembling, "Farewell!" that was like a low, mournful vibration of an JEolian harp, when :the night-breeze breathes upon it. Then she pressed her right hand over her eyes, shuddered, and tremblingly put out her left for that which -would end all. But, instead of the phial which she had placed there but a little before, her hand rested upon a book. Startled, she opened her eyes, and saw not the dreaded poison, but in golden letters that seemed luminous to her dazzled sight: HOLY BIBLE. Though all had lasted but a brief moment, Edith's power of self-control was gone. Dashing 'the bottle on the floor, where it broke into many Tfragments, she threw herself on her sister's neck and sobbed: Oh, Laura, Laura! your hand is on 'a better remedy. -It has saved me--it can save you. It has shown me the Friend we need. He sent me to you;'" and she clung to her sister in -a raptu e of joy, murmuring, with every breath, "Thanks, thanks, eternal gratitude! I bee how my prayer is answered now." Lau'ra, in her shattered condition, was too bewil. diered and feeble to do more than :ling to Edith, with -a blessed sense of being rescued from some great peril. A horrid spell seemed broken, and for some reason, she knew not why, life and hope wern   FR IE ND AND SA VIO UR.    363 still possible. A torrent of tears seemed to relieve her of the dreadful oppression that had so long rested on her, and at last she faltered: ("Who is this strange friend?"  "Iis name is Jesus-Saviour," said Edith, in a low, reverential tone. "I don't quite understand," said Laura, hesib tatinaly. "I can only cling to you till I know him." "He knows you, Laura, and loves you. He has never forgotten us. It was we who forgot Him. He sent me to you, just in time. Now put your hand on this book, and promise me you will never think of such an awful thing again." "I promise," said Laura, solemnly; "not if I am in my right mind. I don't understand myself. Yop seem to have awakened me from a fearful dream. I will do just what you tell me to." "I0 Laura, let us both try to do just what our Divine Friend tells us to do." "t Perhaps, through you, I will learn to know Him. I can only cling to you to-night," said Laura, wearily. "I am so tired," and her eyes drooped as she spoke.   .  With a sense of security came a strong reaction in her overtaxed nature. Edith helped her to bed as if she were a child, and soon she was sleeping :a peacefully as one. ,                  .'    CHAPTERK XXVII. THE MYSTERY SOLVED. EDITH   again resumed her watching in her mother's room. Tile invalid was still dwell, ing on the past, and her delirium appeared to fditli a true emblem of her old, unreal life. Inded, it seemed to her that she had never lived before. A quiet, but divine exaltation, filled her soul. She did not care to read any more, but just sat still and thought, anid her spiritual light grew clearer and clearer. Her faith was very simple, her knowledge very slight. She was scarcely in advance of a Hebrex maiden who might have been one of the mournfu procession passing out of the gates of Nain, when C stranger, unknown before, revealed himself by turn ing death into life, sorrow into joy. The eye of hei faith was fastened on the distinct, living, loving per sonality of our human yet Divine Friend, who n( longerLseemed afar off, but as near as to that othe burde ed one " who touched the hem of his gar ment." "He does not change, the Bible says," she thoughts "He cannot change. Therefore He wil help me, just as surely as nle did the poor, sufferinj people among whom he lived."   THE M YSTER Y SOL VED.    365 It was but three o'clock, and yet the eastern sky was pale with dawn. At length her attention was gained by a faint but oft-repeated sound. It seemea to come from the direction of the garden, and at once the mystery that so oppressed poor Hannibal occurred to her. She rose, and passed back to her own room, which overlooked the garden, and, through the lattice, in the faint morning twilight, saw a tall, dusky figure, that looked much too sub- stantial to be any such shadowy being as the old negro surmised, and the strokes of his tfoe were too vigorous and noisy for ghostly gardening. "It must be Arden Lacey," thought Edith, " but I will put this matter beyond all doubt. I don't like this night work, either; though for different reasons than those of poor Hannibal. We have suf. fered enough from scandal already, and, henceforth all connected with my life shall be as open as the Slay. Then, if the world believes evil of me, it will be because it likes it best." These thoughts passed through her mind while she hastily threw off her wrapper and dressed Cautiously opening the back-door, she looked again, ithe nearer view and clearer light revealed to her tArdan Lacey. She did not fear him, and at once Determined to question him as to the motive of his action. He was but a little way off, and was tying up a grape-vine that had been neglected, his back being toward her. Edith had great physical courage and firmness naturally, and it seemed that on this morning she could fear nothing, in the strength of her new-born enthusiasm. ^-   366     WHA T CAN SHE DO? With noiseless step she reached his side, and asked, almost sternly, "Who are you, sir; and what does this action mean?" Arden started violently, trembled like -the leaves in the morning wind, and turned slowly toward her feeling more guilty and alarmed than if he had been playing the part of a burglar, than her good genius. "Why don't you answer?" she asked, in still more decided tones. "By what right are you doing this work? t' Edith had lost faith in men. She knew little of Arden, and the thought flashed through her mind, 'This may be some new plot against us." There- fore her manner was stern and almost threatening. Poor Arden was startled. out of all self-control. Edith's coming was so sudden and unexpected, and her pale face was so spirit-like, that for a moment he scarcely knew whether the constant object of his thoughts was really before him, or whether his strong imagination was only mocking him. Edith mistook his agitation and hesitancy as evi- dences of guilt, and he so far recovered himself as to recognize her suspicions. "I will be answered. You shall speak the truth," she said, imperiously. "By what right are you doing this work?" Then his own proud, passionate spirit flamed up, and looking her unblenchingly in the face, he replied: "The right of my great love for you. Can I not serve my idol?"    THE M YS TER Y SOLVED.    367 An expression of deep pain and repulsion came out upon Edith's face, and he saw it. The avowal of his love was so abrupt-indeed it was almost stern ; and, coming thus from quite a stranger, who had little place even, in her thoughts, it was so ex- ceedingly painful, -that it was like a blow. She had been dwelling upon the serene heights of a Divine lovde, and the most delicate declaration of a, human and earthly love at that time would have jarred rudely upon her sensitive spirit.  And yet she hardly knew how to answer -him, for she sah in his open, manly face, his respectful manner, that he meant no evil, however he might err through igno- rance or feeling. He seemed to wait for her to speak again, and his face, from being like the eastern sky, Became very pale. From recent experience, and the teach- ings of the Patient One, Edith's heart was very tender toward anything that looked like suffering, and though she deemed Arden's feeling but the infatuation of a rude and ill-regulated mind, she could not be harsh, now that all suspicion of evil de- signs was banished. Therefore she said quietly, and almost kindly, "You have done wrong, Mr. Lacey. Remember I have no father or brother to protect me. The world is too ready to take up evil reports, and your strange action might be misunderstood. All trans- actions with me must be like the sunlight." With an expression of almost angui-3h, Arden bowed his head before her, and groaned.   368      WHAT CAN SHE DO! "Forgive me; I did not think." "I am sure you meant no harm," said Edith, wit': real kindness now in her tone. "You would not knowingly make the way harder for a poor girl that has too much already to struggle against. And now, good-bye. I shall trust to your sense of honor, assured that you will treat me as you would wish your own sister dealt with;': and she vanished, leaving Arden so overwhelmed with contending emotions that he could scarcely make his way home. An hour later Edith heard Hannibal's step down stairs, and she at once joined him. The old man had aged in a night, and his face had a more worn and hopeless look than had yet rested upon it. He trembled at the rustle of her dress, and called, "Miss Edie, am dat you?" 'Yes, you foolish old fellow. I have seen your spook, and ordered it not to come here again unless I send you for it." "Oh, Miss Edie!" gasped Hannibal. "' It's Arden Lacey." Hannibal collapsed. He seemed to drop out of ,the realm of the supernatural to the solid ground of fact with a. heavy thump. He sank into a chair, regarding her first with a blank, vacant face, which gradually became illu- mined with a knowing grin. In a low, chuckling voice, he said, "I jes declar to you I'se struck all of a heap. I jes done see whar de possum is dis minute. What an ole black fool I was, sure 'nuff. I tho't he'se x    THE M YSTER Y SOL VED.    369 de mos 'bligin man I eber seed afore," and he told her how Arden had served her in her illness. She was divided between amusement and annoy. ance, the latter predominating. Hannibal col:. cluded impressively: "Miss Edie, it must be lub. Nothin else dan dat which so limbered up my ole jints, could get any livin man obe! as much ground as he hoed dat night." "Hush, Hannibal," said' Edith, with dignity; "and remember that this is a secret between our- selves, Moreover, I wish you never to ask Mr. Lacey to do anything -for us if it can possibly be helped, and never without my knowledge." "You know's well, Miss Edie, dat you',e only to speak and it's done," said Hannibal, depre catingly. She gave him such a gentle, grateful look that the old man-was almost ready to get down on his knees before her. Putting her hand on his shoulder, she said, "What a good, faithful, old friend you are. You don't know how much I love you, Hannibal;" and she returned to her mother. Hannibal rolled up his eyes and clasped his hands, as -if before his patron saint, saying, under llis breath, "De idee of her lubing ole black Hannibal. I could die dis blessed minute," which was his way of saying, Cc Nunc dimittas." Laura slept quietly till late in the afternoon, and   37j0     W;EA r Ct Ni SEze D?0 wakened as -if to a new and better life. Her man. ner was almost childlike. She had lost all-confidence -in herself, and seemed to wish to be controlled by Edith in all things, as a little child might be. But she was very feeble. As the morning advanced Edith grew exceed- ingly weary. Reaction from her strong excitement seemed to bear her down in a weakness and lethargy that she could not resist, and by ten o'clock she felt that she must have some relief. It came from an unexpected source, for Hannibal appeared with a face of portentous solemnnity, saying that Mrs. Lacey was down stairs, and that she wished to know if she could do something to help. The mother's quick eye saw that something had deeply moved and was troubling her son. Indeed, for some time past, she had seen that into his un- real world had come a reality that was a source both of pain and pleasure, of fear and hope. While she followed him every hour of the day with an unutter- able sympathy, she silently left him to open his heart to her in his own time and manner. But her tender, wistful manner told Arden that he was understood, and he preferred this tacit sympathy to any spoken words. But this torning the evidence pf his mental distress was so apparent that she went to him, placed her hands upon his shoulders, and with her grave, earnest eyes looking straight into his, asked: "Arden, what can I do for you?" "Mother,"' he said, in a low tone, "there is sick.   THE sM YS TER Y SOL-n. 3D. ness acld deep trouble at our neighbor's. Will you go to them again 5" "Yes, my son," she replied, simply, " as soon as I can get ready." So she arranged matters to stay if needed, and thus in Edith's extremity she appeared. In view of Arden's words, Edith hardly knew how to receive her or what to do. But when she saw the plain, grave woman sitting before her in the simple dignity of patient sorrow, her course seemed clear. She in- stinctively felt that she could trust this offered friendliness, and that she needed it. "I have heard that your mother has been sick as well as yourself," she said kindly but quietly. "You look very worn and weary, Miss Allen; and if I, as a neighbor, can watch in your place for awhile, I think you can trust me to do so." Tears sprang into Edith's eyes, and she said, with sudden color coming into her pale face, "You take noble revenge for the treatment you have received from us, and I gratefully submit to it. I must con- fess I have reached the limit of my endurance; my sister is ill also, and yet mother needs constant attention." "Then I am very glad I came, and I have left things at home so I can stay," and she laid aside her wraps with the air of one who sees a duty plainly and intends to perform it. Edith gave het the doctor's instructions a little incoherently in lihe utter exhaustion, but the experienced matron under. stood all, and said,   372     WHA T CAN SHE DO? "I think I know just what to do. Sleep till you are well rested." Edith went to her room, and, with her face where tlhe sweet June air could breathe directly upon it through the open window, sleep came with a wel- come and refreshing balm that she had never known before. Heir last thought was, "I He will take care of me and mine." She had left the door leading into the sick-room open, and Mrs. Lacey stepped in once and looked at her. The happy, trustful thought- with which she had closed her eyes left a faint smile upon her face, and gave it a sweet spiritual beauty. "She seems very different from what I supposed her," murmured Mrs. Lacey. "She is very differ- ent from what people are imagining her. Perhaps Arden, poor boy, is nearer right than all of us. Oh, I 'hope she is good, whether he ever marries her or not, for this love will be the saving or ruining of him." When Edith awoke it was dark, and she started up in dismay, for she meant to sleep but an hour or two. Having hastily smoothed her hair, she went to the sick room, and found Laura reclining on the sofa, and talking in the most friendly manner to Mrs. Lacey. Her mother's delirium continued, though it was more quiet; with snatches of sleep intervening, but she noticed no one as yet. Mrs. Lacey sat calmly in her chair, her sad, patient face making the very ideal of a watcher, and yet in spite of her plain exterior there was a refinement, an ail     THE MYSTERY SOLVED.      373 of self-respect, that would impress the most casual observer. AS. soon as Laura saw Edith she rose as quickly as her feebleness 'permitted, and threw her arms around her sister, and there was an embrace whose warmth and imeaning none but themselves, and the pitying eye of Him who saved-, could under- stand. Then Edith turned and said, earnestly, "Truly, Mrs. Lacey, I did not intend to trespass on your kindness in this manner. I hope you will forgive me." "Nature knew what was best for you, Miss Allen and you have not incommoded me at all. I made my plans to stay till nine o'clock, and then Arden will come for me." "Miss Edie," said Hannibal, in his loud whisper "I'se got some supper for you down here." Why did Edith go to her room and make a little better toilet before going down? She hardly thought herself. It was probably a feminine instinct. As she took her last sip of tea there was a timid knock at the door. "' I will see him a morent," she decided. Hannibal, with a gravity that made poor Edith smile in her thoughts, admitted Arden Lacey. He was diffident but not' awkward, and the color deep- ened in his face, then left it very pale, as he saw Edith was present. Her pale cheek also took the faintest tinge of pink, but she rose quietly, and said, "Please be seated, Mr. Lacey. I will tell your mother you are here." Then, as Hannibal dis-   7 WHA T CAN SHE DO?0 374 appeared, she added earnestly, "I do appreciate your mother's kindness, and--yours also. At the same time, too deep a sense of obligation is painful; you must not do so much for us. Please do not misunderstand me."  Arden had something of his mother's quiet dignity, as he rose and held out to Edith a letter, saying, "Will you please read that--you need not answer it--and then perhaps you will understand me better." Edith hesitated, and was reluctant. "I maybe doing wrong," continued he, earnestly and with rising color. "I am not versed in the world's ways; but is it not my right to explain the rash words I uttered this morning? My good name is dear to me also. Few care for it, but I would not have it utterly blurred in your eyes. We may be strangers after you have read it, if you choose, but I entreat you to read it." '1 You will not feel hurt if I afterwards return it to you?" asked Edith, timidly. "You may do with it what you please." She then took the letter, and a moment later Mrs. Lacey appeared, and said, "I will sit up to-morrow night, with your per. mission."  Edith took her hand, and replied, "Mrs. Lacey, you burden me with kindness." "It is not my wish to burden, but to relieve you, Miss Allen. I think I can safely say, from. out   THE MYSTER Y SOLYED.     375 slight acquaintance, that in the case of sickness or trouble at a neighbor's, you would not spare your. self. We cease to be human when we leave the too. heavily burdened to struggle alone." Edith's eyes grew moist, and she said, simply,' I cannot refuse kindness offered in that spirit, and may God bless you for it. Good night." Arden's only parting was a grave, silent bow. Edith was soon alone again, watching by her mother. With some natural curiosity, she opened the letter that was written by one so different from any man that she had ever known before.  Its opening, at least, was reassuring. "4 MSS EDITH ALLEN: You need not fear that I' shall offend again by either writing or speaking such rash words as those which so deeply pained you this morning. They would not have been spoken then, perhaps never, had I not been startled out of my self-control-had I not seen that you suspected me of evil. I was very unwise, and I sin- cerely ask your pardon. But I meant no wrong, and as you referred to my sister, I can say, before God, that I would shield you as I would shield her. ' I know little of the conventionalities of the world. I live but a hermit's life in it, and my letter may seem to you very foolish and romantic, still I know that my motives are not ignoble, and with this consciousness I venture. "Reverencing and honoring you as I do, I cannot bear that you should think too meanly of me. The   37.6    WWHArT CAN SHE DO? world regards me as a sullen, stolid, bearish creature, but I have almost ceased to care for its opinion. I have received from it nothing but coldness and scorn, and I pay my debt in like coin. But perhaps you can imagine why I cannot endure that you should regard me in like manner. I would not have you think pny nature a stony, sterile place, when something tells me that it is like a garden that needs only sunlight of some kind. My life has been blighted by the wrong of another, who should have been my best helper. The knowledge and university culture for which I thirsted was denied me. And yet, believe me, only my mother's need-only the absolute necessity that she and my sister should have a daily protector, kept me from pushing out into the world, and trying to work my way unaided to better things. Sacred duty has chained me down to a life that was outwardly most sordid and un- happy. AMy best solace has been my mother's love. But from varied, somewhat extensive, though per- haps not the wisest kind of reading, I came to dwell in a brave, beautiful, but shadowy world, that I created out of books. I was becoming satisfied with it, not knowing any other. The real world mocked and hurt me on every side. It is so harsh and un. just that I hate it. I hate it infinitely more as I see its disposition to wound you, who have been so noble and heroic. In this dream of the past-in -this unreal world of my own fancy, I was Iiving when you came that rainy night. As I learned to know you somewhat, you seemed a beautiful reve-   THE MYS TERY SOL VED.     37 lation to me. I did not think there was such a woman in existence. My shadows vanished before you. With you living in the present, my dreams of the past ceased. I could not prevent your image from entering my lonely, empty heart, and taking its vacant throne, as if by divine right. How could I? How can I drive you forth now, when my whole being is enslaved? "But forgive me. Though thought and feeling are beyond control, outward action is not. I hope never to lose a mastering grasp on the rein of deeds and words; and though I cannot understand how the feeling I have frankly avowed can ever change, I will try never, by look or sign, to pain you with it again. "And yet, with a diffidence and fear equaled only by my sincerity and earnestness, I would ven. ture to ask one great favor. You said this morning that you already had too much to struggle against. The future -has its possibilities of further trouble and danger. Will you not let me be your humble, faithful friend, serving you loyally, devotedly, yet unobtrusively, and with all the delicate regard for your position which I am capable of showing, as- sured that I will gratefully accept any hints when I am wrong or presumptuous? I would gladly serve you with your knowledge and consent. But serve you I must. I vowed it the night I lifted your un. conscious form from the wharf, and gave you into Mrs. Groody's care. There need be no reply. You have only to treat me not as an utter stranger when   378      WHA T CAN SHE DO  we next meet. You have only to give me tieh- oy of doing something for you when opportunity offers. "ARDEN LACEY." Edith's eyes filled with tears before she finished this most unexpected epistle. Though rather quaint and stately in its diction, the passion of a true, strong nature so permeated it all, that the coldest and shallowest would have been moved. And yet a half-smile played upon her face at the same time, like sunlight on drops of rain. "Thank heaven," she said, "I know of one more true man in the world, if he is a strange one. How different he is from what I thought! I don't believe there's another in this place who could have written such a letter. What would a New York society man, whose compliments are as ex- travagant as meaningless, think of it? Truly he don't know the world, and isn't like -it. I sup- posed him an awkward, eccentric young country- man, that, from his very verdancy, would be difficult to manage, and he writes to me like a knight of old- en time, only such language seems Quixotic in out day. The foolish fellow, to idealize poor, despised, faulty Edith Allen into one of the grand heroines of his interminable romances, and that after seeing me hoe my garden like a Dutch woman. If I wasn't so sad and he so earnest, I could laugh till my sides ached. There never was a more matter. of-fact creature than I am, and yet here am I envel- oped in a halo of impossible virtues and graces. If   w      THE f MYSTER Y SOL VED.   3 I were what he thinks me, I wouldn't know myself. Well, well, I must treat him somewhat like a boy, for such he really is, ignorant of himself and all the world. When he comes to know me better, the Edith of his imagination will vanish like his other shadows, and he will have another revelation that I am an ordinary, flesh-and-blood girl." With deepening color she continued-: "So it was he who lifted me up that night. Well, I am glad it was one who pitied me, and not some coarse, unfeeling man. It seems strange how circurn- stances have brought him   who shuns and is shunned by all, into such a queer relationship tome. But heaven forbid that I should give him lessons as to the selfish, matter-of-fact world. He will out- grow his morbidness and romantic chivalry with the certainty of years, and seeing more of me will ban- ish his absurd delusions in regard to me. I need his friendship and help-indeed it seems as if it were sent to me. It can do him no harm, and it may give me a chance to do him good. If any man ever needed a sensible friend, he does." Therefore Edith wrote him :' "It is very kind of you to offer friendship and help to one situated like myself, and I gratefully grant what you rather oddly call 'a favor.' At the same time, if you ever find such friendliness a pain or trouble to you in any way, I shall in no sense blame you for withdrawing it." The "friendship " and ' friendliness " were under.     '    380      WHA T CAN SHE DO? scored, thus delicately hinting that this must be the only relation. "There," she said, " all his chains will now be of his own forging, and I shall soon demolish the para. gon he is dreaming over." She laid both letters aside, and took down her Bible with a little sigh of satisfaction. "His lonely, empty heart," she murmured; " ah, that is the trouble with all. He thinks to fill his with a vain dream of me, as others do with as vain a dream of something else. I trust 1 have learned of One here who can fill and satisfy mine; " and soon she was again deep in the wondrous story, so old, so new, so all-absorbing to those from whose spirit- ual eyes the scales of doubt and indifference have fallen. As she read she saw, not truths about Jesus, but Him, and at His feet her heart bowed in stronger faith and deeper love every moment. She had not even thought whether she was a Christian or not. She had not even once put her finger on her spiritual pulse, to guage the evidences of her faith. A system of theology would have been unintelligible to her. -She could not have de- fined one doctrine so as to have satisfied a sound -divine. She had not even read the greater part of the Bible, but, in her bitter extremity, the Spirit of God, employing the inspired guide, had brought hler to Jesus, as the troubled and sinful were brought to H irn of old. He had given her rest. He had helped her save her sister, and with childlike Crnfidence she was just looking, lovingly and trust-   THE AYSTER Y SOL VED.    38 ingly, into His divine face, and He was smiling away all her fear and pain. She seemed to feel sure that her mother would get well, that Laura would grow stronger, that they would all learn to know Him, and would be taken care of. As she read this evening she came to that passage of exquisite pathos, where the purest, holiest, man- hood said to " a woman of the city; which was a sinner," "Thy sins are forgiven. Go in peace." Instantly her thoughts reverted to Zell, and she was deeply moved. Could she be forgiven? Could she be saved? Was the God of the Bible, stern, afar off, as she had once imagined, more tender to. ward the erring than even their own human kindred? Could it be possible that, while she had been con- demning, and almost hating Zell, Jesus had been loving her? The feeling overpowered her. Closing the book, she leaned her head upon it, and, for the first time, sobbed and mourned for Zell, with a great, yearning pity. Every such pitiful tear, the world over, is a prayer to God. They mingle with those that flowed from His eyes,. as He wept over the doomed city that would not receive Him. They mingle with that crimson fide which flowed from His hands and feet when He prayed, "Father, forgive them, they know not what they do.-   CHAPTER XXVIII. EDITH TELLS THE OLD, OLD STORY. RS. Allen seemed better the next day, and Laura was able to watch while Edith slept. After tea Mrs. Lacey appeared, with the same subdued air of quiet self-respect and patient sorrow. She seemed to have settled down into that mou n- ful calm which hopes little and fears little. She seemed to expect nothing better than to go forward with such endurance as she might, into the deeper shadows of age, sickness, and death. She vaguely hoped that God would have mercy upon her at last, but how to love and trust Him she did not know. She hardly knew that it was- expected, or possible. She associated religion with going to church, out- ward profession, and doing much good. The neigh- bors spoke of her and the family as " very irrelig- ious," and she had about come -to the conclusion that they were right. She never thought of taking credit to herself for her devotion to her children, and patience with her husband. She loved the former, especially her son, with an intensity that one could hardly reconcile with her grave and silent ways. In regard' to her husband, she tried to remember her first young girlish dream-the manly ideal of char- acter that her fond heart had associated with the ,   EDITH TELLS THE OLD, OLD STORY.  383 handsome young fellow who had singled her out among the many envious maidens in her native village.           "' I will try to be true to what I thought he was," she said, with woman's pathetic constancy, " and be patient with what he is." But the disappointment, as it slowly assumed dread certainty, broke her heart. Edith began to have a fellow-feeling for her. ' We both have not only our own burdens to carry, bust the heavier burden of another," she thought. I wonder if she has ever gone to Him for the ' rest.' I fear not, or she would not look so' sad and hope- less." Before they could go upstairs a hack from the hotel stopped at the door, and Mrs. Groody bustled cheerily in. Laura at the same time came down, saying that Mrs. Allen was asleep. "Hannibal," said Edith, " you may sit on the stairs, and if she wakes, or makes any sound, let me know," and she took a seat near the door in order to hear, "I've been worrying about you every minute ever since I called, and you was too sick to see me," said Mrs. Groody, " but I've been so busy I couldn't get away. It takes an awful lot of work to get such a big house to rights, and the women cleaning, and the servants are so aggravatin, that I am just run off my legs lookin after them. I don't see why people can't do what they're told, when they're told." "I wish I were able to help you," said Edith&   384     V HA T CAN SHE DO? "Yout promise of work has kept me up wonder-. fully. But before I half got my strength back mother became veQr ill, and, had it not been for Mrs. Lacey, I don't know what I would have done. It did seem as if she were sent here yesterday, for I could not have kept up another hour." "You poor child," said Mrs. Groody, in a tone and manner overflowing with motherly kindness. "I just heard about it to-day from Arden, who was bringing something up to the hotel, so I said, I'll drop everything to-night, and run down for a while. So here I am, and now what can I do for you?" concluded the warm-hearted woman, whose invari- able instinct was to put her sympathy into deeds. "I told you that night," said Edith. "I think I could do a little sewing or mending even now if I had it here at home. But your kindness and remembrance 'do me more good than any words of mine can tell you. I thought no one would ever speak to us again," she continued in a low tone, and with rising color, "and I have had kind, helpful friends sent to me already." Wistful mother-love shone in Mrs. Lacey's large blue eyes, but Mrs. Groody blew her nose like a trumpet, and said; "Not speak to you, poor child! Though I ain't on very good terms with the Lord, I ain't a Phari- see, and after what I saw of you that night, I am proud to speak to you and do anything I can for you. It does seem too bad that poor young things like you two should be sc burdened. I should think   EDITH TELLS THE OLD, OLD STORY.    385 you had enough before without your mother getting sick. I don't understand the Lord, no how. Seems to me He might scatter His afflictions as well as His favors a little more evenly. I've thought a good deal about what you said that night, ' We're dealt with in masses,' and poor bodies like you and me, and Mrs. Lacey there, that is,' the human- atoms, as you called 'em, are lost sight of." Tears sprang into Edith's eyes, and she said, ear- nestly, "I am sorry I ever said those words. They are not true. I should grieve very much if my rash, desperate words did- you harm after all your kind- ness to me. I have learned better since I saw you, Mrs. Groody. We are not lost sight of. ,It seems to me the trouble is we lose sight of Him." " Well, well, child, I'm glad to hear you talk in that way," said Mrs. Groody, despondently. "I'm dreadfully discouraged about it all. I know I fell from grace, though, one awfully hot summer, when everything went wrong, and I got on a regular rampage, and that's the reason perhaps. A she-bear that had lost her cubs, wasn't nothing to me. But. I straightened things out at the hotel, though I came mighty near being sick, but I never could get straight myself after it. I knowed I ought to be more patient-I knowed it all the :ime. But human natur is human natur, and woman natur is worse yet sometimes. And when you've got on one hand a score or two of drinking, quarrelsome, thieving, and abominably lazy servants to manage, and on the other two or three hundred fastidious 17   386     WiA T CAN SHE DO? people to please, and elegantly dressed ladies who can't manage their three or four servants at home, dawdling up to you every hour in the day, saying about the same as, Mrs. Groody, everything ain't done in a minute-everything aiin't just right. I'd like to know where 'tis in this jumbled-up world- not where they're housekeepers, I warrant you." "Well, as I was tellin you," continued Mrs. Groody, with a weary sigh, " that summer was too much for me. I got to be a very dragon. ILhadn't time to read my Bible, or pray, or go to church, or scarcely eat or sleep. I worked Sundays and week- days, alike, and I got to be a sort of heathen, and I've been one ever since," and a gloom seemed to gather on her naturally open, cheery face, as if she feared she might never be anything else. Mrs. Lacey gave a deep, responsive sigh, showing that her heavy heart was akin to all other burdened souls. But direct, practical Edith said simply and gently; "In other words you were laboring and heavy laden," "Couldn't have been more so, and lived," was Mrs. Groody's emphatic answer. "And the memory of it seems to have been a heavy burden on your conscience ever since, though I think you judge yourself harshy," continued Edith. "Not a bit," said Mrs Groody sturdily, i I knowed better all the time.' "Well, be that as it may, I feel that I know very \ 1   EDITH TELLS THE OLD, OLD STORY.   387 little about these things yet. I'm sure I want to be guided rightly. RBut what did our Lord- mean when Ife said ' Come unto Me all ye that labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest.' " Mrs. Groody gave Edith a sort of surprised and startled look. After a moment she said, ' Bless you, child, how plain you do put it It's a very plain text when you think of it, nowain't it? I always tho't it meant kind o' good, as all the Bible does." "No, but He said them," urged Edith earnestly. 6' It is a distinct, plain invitation, and it must have a distinct, plain meaning. I have learned to know that when you or Mrs. Lacey say a thing, you mean what you say, and so it is with all who are sincere and true. Was He not sincere and true? If so, these plain words must have a plain meaning. He surely couldn't have meant them only for the few people who heard His voice at that time." "Of course not," said Mrs. Groody, musingly, while poor Mrs. Lacey leaned forward with such an eager, hungry look in her poor, worn face, that Edith's heart yearned over her. Laura came and sat on the floor by her sister's chair, and leaning her elbow on Edith's knee, and her face on het hand, looked up with the wistful, trustful, child-like expression that had taken the place of her former stateliness and subsequent apathy. Edith lost all thought of herself in her eagerness to tell the others of the Friend and Helper she had come to know. ,i He must be God, or else He had no riglit to say   388      WHA T CAN SHE DO? to a great, troubled, sinning world, ' Come unto me. Tile idea of a million people going at once, with their sorrows and burdens, to one mere man, or all angel. or any finite creature! And just think how many millions there are! If the Bible is for all, this invitation is for all. He couldn't have changed since then, could He? He can't be different in heaven from what He was on earth?" "No," said Mrs. Groody, .quickly, "for the Bible says He is' the same yesterday, to-day, and for- ever.' " "I never read in that place," said Edith, simply. ' That makes it clearer and stronger than ever. Please, don't think I am setting myself up as a re- ligious teacher. I know very little yet myself. I am only seeking the light. But, one thing is settled iv my mind, and I like to have one thing settled befor! I go on to anything else. This one thing seems the foundation of everything else, and it appears as if I could go on from  it and learn all the rest. I am satisfied- that this Jesus is God, ald that He said, 'Come unto me,' to poor, weak, overburdened Edithl Allen.  I went to Him, just as people in trouble used to, when He  first spoke these words. And, Oh, how He has helped me," continued Edith, with tears in her eyes, but with the glad light of a great hope again shining through them. The world can never know all that He has done for us, and I can t even think of Him without my heart quivering wi'tl ,gratitude." Laura had now buried her face in her sister's lap, * '"'. I                  * '   -   EDITH TELLS THE OLD, OLD STORY.  389 and was trembling like a leaf. Edith's words hadla  meaning to her'that they could not have for the others. "And now,"' concluded Edith, "I was led to Him by these words, ' Come unto me all ye that labor and are I eavy laden, and I will give you rest.' I was in greater darkness than I had ever been be- fore. My heart ached as if it would burst. Diffi-  culty and danger seemed on every side, and I saw no way out. I knew the world had only scorn for us, and I was so bowed down with shame and discoura!,ement, that I almost lost all hope. I had been to the village, and the people looked and pointed at me, '.ill I was ready to drop in the street. But I went to Mr. McTrump's, and he and his wift; were so kind to me, and heartened me up a little; and they spoke about the ' Gude Book,' as they call it, in such a way as made me think of it in my deep distress and fear, as I sat alone watch- ing with mother. So I found my neglected Bible, and, in some way, I seemed guided to these word, ' Come unto me; ' and then, for two or three hours, I continued to read eagerly about Him, till at last I felt that I could venture to go to Him. So, I just bowed my head, on His own invitation; indeed, it seemed like a tender call to a child that had been lost in the dark, and was afraid, and I said, ' I am heavy laden, help me.' And how wonderfully He did help me. He has been so good, so near, ever since. My weary, hopeless heartache is gone. I don't know what is before us. I can't see the way out of our   390     P'Hf rT CA N SHE D O  troubles I don't know what has become of out absent one," she said, in a low tone and with bowed head, "but I can leave all to Him. lie is God: He loves, and He can, and will, take care of us. So you see I know very little about re- ligion yet; just enough to trust and keep close to Him; and I feel sure that in time He will teach me, through the Bible, or in some way, all I ought to know." "Bless the child, she's right, she's right," sobbed Mrs. Groody. "It was just so at first. He came right among people, and called all sorts to Him, and they came to Him just as they was, and stayed with Him, and He cured, and helped, and taught 'em, till, from being the worst, they became the best. That is the way teat distressed, swearin, old fisherman Peter became one of the greatest and best men that ever lived: though it took a mighty lot of grace and patience to bring it about. Now I think of it, I think he fell from grace worse than I did that awfully hot summer. Whiat an old fool I am. I've been reading the Bible all my life, and never understood it before." "I think that if you had gone to Him that time when you were so troubled and overburdened, He would have helped you," said Edith, gently. "Yes, but there it is, you see," said Mrs. Groody, wiping her eyes and shaking her head despond. ently, "I didn't go." "But you are heavy laden now.  I can see it. You can go now," said Edith, earnestly. ,e   - EDITH TELLS THE OLD. OLD STORY.  39  "I'm afraid I've put it off too long,' said Mrs, Groody, settling back into something of her old gloom. "I'm afraid I've sinned away my time." With a strange blending of pathos and reproach in her tone, Edith answered, "Oh, how can you, with your big, kind heart, that yearned over a poor unknown girl that dreadful night when you brought me home--how can you think so poorly of your Saviour? Is your heart warmer-are your sympathies larger than His? Why, He died for us, and, when dying, prayed for those who crucified Him. Could you turn away a poor, sorrowing, burdened creature that came plead- ing to you for help? You know you couldn't. Learn from your own heart something of His. Listen, I haven't told you all. It- seems as if I never could tell all about Him. But see how He feels about poor lost Zell, when I, her own sister, was almost hating her," and, reaching her hand to the table, she took her Bible and read Christ's words to "a woman of the city, which was a sinner.' At this Mrs. Groody broke down completely, and with clasped hands and streaming eyes, cried, "I will go to Him; I will fear and doubt no more,)' A trembling hand was now laid  on Edith's shoulder, and, looking up, she saw Mrs. Lacey stand- ing by her side with a face so white, so eager, so fiil! of unutterable longing, that it might have made. a Christianwartist's ideal of a soul famishing for the / * \        -   392     WHA T CAN SHE no ' Bread of Life." In a low, timid, yet thrilling tone, she asked, "Miss Alien, do you think he would receive such a: me?" "Yes, thus," cried Edith, as with a divine im. pulse and a great yearning pity she sprang up and threw her arms around Mrs. Lacey. Hope dawned in the poor worn face like the morning. Belief in God's love and sympathy seemed to flow into her sad heart from the other human heart that was pressed against it. The .spiritual electric circle was completed-Edith, with her hand of faith in God's, took the trembling, groping hand of another and placed it there also. Two great tears gathered in Mrs. Lacey's eyes, and she bowed her head for a moment on -Edith's shoulder, and murmured, "I'll try-I think I may venture to him." Hannibal now  appeared at the door, saying, rather huskily and brokenly, considering his mes- sage, "Miss Edie, you'se mudder's awake, an'd like some water." "That's what we all have been wanting, ' water ' -' the water of life,' "said Mrs. Groody, wiping liher eyes, " and never was my parched old heart so re- freshed before' I don't care how hot this summer is, or how aggravatin things are, I feel as if I'd be helped through it. And, my dear, good-night. I come here to try to do you good, and you've done me more good than I ever thought could happen   k EDITH TELLS TriE OLD, OLD STORY  393 again. I'm goin to kissyou--I can't help it. Good t bye, and may the good Lord bless your sweet face; and Mrs. Groody, like one of old, climbed up into her chariot, and " went on her way rejoicing." In their close good-night embrace, Laura whis. pered, ' I begin to understand it a little now, Edie, but I think I see everything only through your eyes, not my own. As old Malcom said to me the other day, so now I say to you, ' Ye'll learn it a' soon.'" Edith soon retired to rest also, and Mrs. Lacey Sat at Mrs. Alien's side, returning the sick woman's slights and scorn, somewhat as the patient God returns ours, by watching over her. Her eyes, no longer cast down with the pathetic discouragement of the past, seemed looking far away upon some distant scene. She was following in her thoughts the steps of the Magi from the East to w!ere, as yet far distant, the "Star of Bettile- hem" glimmered with promise and hope.   CHAPTER XXIX. HANNIBAL LEARNS HOW HS HEART CAN BK WHTE. HEN    Edith rose the next morning she found Laura only at her mother's bedside. Mrs. Lacey had returned quite early, saying that she would soon come again. Mrs. Allen's delirium had passed away, leaving her exceedingly weak, but the doctor said, at his morning call: 'With quiet and good nursing she will slowly regain her usual health." After he was gone, Laura said: "- Taking care of nother will now be my wor-k Edie. I feel a good deal stronger I'll doze in a chair during the day, and I am a light nsleeper 'at night, so I don't think we will need any more watchers., Poor Mrs. Lacey works hard at home, I am sure, and I don't want to trespass on her kindness any longer. .So if Mrs. Groody sends you work you may give all your time And early after breakfast quite a bundle did come from the hotel, with cwl   from the housekeeper: "'You may mend this linen, my dear, and I'll send for it to-morrow night. Edith's eyes sparkled at the sight of the work as they never had over the costhest gifts of jewelry.   HANNIBAL'S HEART TO BE WHTE.   395 Sitting down in the airy parlor, which was no longer kept in state for possible callers, she put on her thimble, and, with a courage and heroism greater than many a knight drawing for the first time his ancestral sword, she took her needle and joined the vast army of sewing-women.  Lowly was the position and work first assigned to her-only mend- ing coarse linen. And yet it was with a thrill of gratitude and joy, and a stronger hope than she had yet experienced, that she sat down to the first real work for which she would be paid, and in her exultation she brandished her little needle at the spectres want and fear, as a soldier might his weapon. Hannibal stood in the kitchen regarding her with moist eyes and features that twitched nervously. "Oh, Miss Edie, I neber tho't you'd come to dat." "It's one of the best things I'ye come to yet," said Edith, cheerily,. ,We'll be taken care of, Hannibal. Cheer up your faithful ,old heart. Brighter days are coming." But, for some reason, Hannibal didn t cheer up, and he stood looking very wistfully at Edith. , At last he commenced, "It does my ole black heart good to hear you talk so, Miss Edie " Why do you persist in calling your heart black? It's no such thing," interrupted Edith. "Yes, 'tis, Miss Edie," said Hannibal; despond-  ently, "I'se know 'tis. I'se black outside, and I   396      rHi Tr C,4N S HE DO? allers kinder feel dat I'se more black inside. Nebel felt jes right here yet, Miss Edie," said the old man, laying his hand on his breast. M"I come de nighest to 't de toder day when you said you lubbed me. Dat seemed to go down deep, but not quite to whar de trouble stays all de time." "But, Miss Edie," continued he in a whisper, "I'se hope you'll forgive me, but I couldn't help listenin to you last night. I neber heerd such talk afore. It seemed to broke my ole black heart all up, and made it feel like de big ribers down south in de spring, when dey jes oberflow eberyting. I says to myself, dat's de Friend Miss Edie say she'se goin to tell me about And now, Miss Edie, would you mind tellin me little about Him? Cause if He's your Friend, I'd think a heap of Him, too. Not dat I specs He'se goin to bodder wid dis ole niggah, but den I'd jes like to hear about Him a little." Edith laid down her work, and turned her glori- ous dark eyes, brimming over with sympathy on the poor old fellow, as he stood in the doorway fairly trembling with the excess of his feeling. "Come and sit down here by me,' she said "Oh, Miss Edie, I'se isn't - " - No words-come." Hannibal crouched down on a divan near. "What makes you think He wouldn't b( ther with you?" "Well, I'sedon't know 'zactly, Miss Edie I'M only Hannibal.'"   HANNIBAL'S HEART TO BE WHTE.   397 , Hannibal," said Edith, earnestly, " you are the best man I know i- all the world." "Oh, Lor bless you, Miss Edie, how you talk: you'se jes done gone crazy." "No, I haven't. I never spoke in more sober earnest. You are faithful and true, unselfish and patient, and abound in the best material of wtich men are made. I admit," she added, with a twinkle in her eye, " that one very common element of man- hood, as I have observed it, is dreadfully lacking, that is conceit. I wish I were as good as you are, Hannibal." "Oh, Miss Edie, don't talk dat way, youl jes done discourages me. If you'd only say, Hannibal, you'se sick but I'se got a mighty powerful medicine for you; if you'd only say, I know you isn't good; I know your ole heart is black, but I know a way to make it white, I'd stoop down and kiss the ground you'se walks on. Dere's sumpen wrong here, Miss Edie," said he, laying his hand on his breast again, and shaking his head, with a tear in the corner of each eye, "I tells you dere's sumpen wrong. I don't know jes what 'tis. My heart's like a baby a-cryin' for it doesn't know what. Den it gits jes like a stun, as hard and as heavy. I don't understan' my ole heart; I guess it's kinder sick and wants a doctor 'cause it don't work right. But dere's one ting I does understan'. It 'pears dat it would be a good heaven 'nuff if I'se could allers be waitin' on you alls. But Massa Allen's gone; Miss Zell, pobr chile, is gone; and I'se growin' ole, Miss   yo     wlv T. CAN SffE DO 9 Edie, I'sa groin' ole. De wool is white, de jints are sti-, and de feet tired. Dey can't tote dis ole body roun' much longer. Where am I gwine, Miss Edie? What's gwine to become of ole Hannibal I'se was allers afeard of de dark. If I could only find you in de todder world and wait on you, dat's all ask, but I'se afeard I'll get lost, it seems such a big, empty place." "Poor old Hannibal! Then you are  heavy. laden' too," said Edith, gently. "Indeed I is, Miss Edie, 'pears as if I couldn't Stan' it anoder minute. And when I heerd you talkin' about dat Friend last night, and tellin' how good I e was to people, and He seemed to do you such a heap of good, dat I would jes like to hear little'l;out Him." "V/ait till I get my Bible," said Edith. "Bless you, Miss Edie, you'se needlr 't stop yolr vork. Y-ou can jes tell me anyting dat come into ,ou'se head." "Then I wouldn't be like Him, Hannibal. He used to stop and give the kindest and most patient attention to everyone that came to I im, and, as far as I can make out, the poorer thev were, the more sinful and despised they seemed, the more attention He gave to them." "Dat's mighty quar," said Hannibal, musingly, "not a bit like de big folcks dat I'se seen." "I don't understand it all myself yet, Hanllibal, But the Bible tells me that He was God come down to earth to save the world. He says to the lost and ?" n,                X.^^^   UANNIBAL'S HEART TO BE WHTE.    399 sinful--to all who are poor and needy--in brief, to the heavy-laden, ' Come unto ne.' So I went to Itim, Hannibal, and you can go just as well." Thd old man's eyes glistened, but he. said, doubt- fully, "Yes, but den you'se Miss Edie, and I'se only black Hannibal. I wish we'd all lived when He was here. I might have shine his boots, and done little tings for Him, so He'd say, ' Poor old Hannibal, you does as well as you knows how. I'll 'member you, and you shan't go away in de dark.'" - Edith smiled and cried at the same time over the quaint pathos of the simple creature's words, but she said, earnestly, "You need not go away in the dark, for He said, ' I am the light of the world,' and if you go to Him you will always be in the light." "I'd go in a minute," said Hannibal, eagerly, " if I only know'd how, and wasn't afear'd." Then. as if a sudden thought struck him, he asked, "Miss Edie, did He eber hab anyting to do wid a black man s " Edith was-so unfamiliar with the Bible that she could not recall any distinct case, but she said, with the earnestness of such full belief on her part, that it satisfied his child-like minld, "I am sure He did, for all kinds of people-people that no one else would touch or look at-came to Him, or He went to them, and spoke so kindly to them and forgave all their sins." "Bress Him, Miss Edie, dat kinder sounds like what I wants." Edith thought a moment, and, with her quick   400     -WHA T CAN SHE DOP logical mind, sought to construct a simple chain of truth that would bring to the trusting nature she was trying to guide the perfect assurance that Jesus' love and mercy embraced him as truly as herself. They made a beautiful picture that moment; s e with her hands, that had dropped all earthly tasks for the sake of this divine work, clasped in her lap; her lustrous eyes dewy with sympathy and feeling, looking far away into the deep blue of the June sky, as if seeking some heavenly inspiration; and quaint old Hannibal, leaning forward in his eager- ness, and gazing upon her, as if his life depended upon her next utterances. It was a picture of the Divine Artist's own crea- tion. He had inspired the faith in one and the questioning unrest in the other. He, with Edith's lips, as- ever by human lips, was teaching the way of life. Glorious privilege, that our weak voices should be as the voice of God, telling the lost and wandering where lies the way to life and home. The angels leaned over the golden walls to watch that scene, while many a proud pageant passed un- heeded. "Hannibal," said Edith, after her momentary abstraction, ' God made everything, didn't He?" "Sartin." "Then He made you, and you are one iof His creatures, are yolu not?" "Sartin I is, Miss Edie.' "Then see here what is in the Bible. Almost the -      ,     ', .  I' .   HANNIB.4L'S IEART TO BE WHTS.   401 last thing He said to His followers before He went up into heaven, was, ' Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature.' Gospel means 'good news,' and the good news was, that God had come down - from heaven and become a, man, so we wouldn't be afraid of Him, and that He would take awyaytheirsins and save all who would let Him. Now, remember, He didn't send His preachers to the white people, nor to the black people, but to all the world, to every creature alike, and so He meant you and me, Hannibal, and you as much as mne. I am just as sure He will receive you as that lte received me." "Dat's 'nuff, Miss Edie. Ole Hannibal can go too. And I'se a gwine, Miss Edie, I'se a gwine right to Him. Dere's only one ting dat troubles me yet. What is I gwine to do with my ole black heart? I know dere's sumpen wrong wid it. It's boddered me all my life." "O Hannibal," said Edith eayerly, "I was read- ing something last night, that I think will just suit you. I thought I would read a little in the Old  Testament, and I turned to a place that I didn't un- derstand very well, but I came to these words, and they made me think of you, for you are always talk- ing about your ' old black heart.' And she read: "I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you ; and I will take the stony heart out of their flesh and will give them an heart of flesh." To Hannibal the words seemed a revelation from   402    / WHAT CAN SJHE DO? heaven. Standing before her, with streaming eyes he said; "O Miss Edie, you'se been an angel of light to ire. Dat was jes de berry message I wanted. I knowed my ole heart was nothin but a black stun. De Lord couldn't do nothin wid it but trow it away. But tanks be to His name, He says He'll give me a new one--a heart of flesh. Now I sees dat my heart can be white like yours, Miss Edie. Bress de Lord, I'se a gwine, I'se a comin," and Hannibal vanished into the kitchen, feeling that he must be alone in the glad tumult of his eni ons.   CHAPTER XXX EDITH'S AND ARDEN'S FRIENDSHP. A S Edith laid aside her work for a frugal dinner  at one o'clock, she heard the sound of a hoe in her garden. The thought of Arden at once recurred to her, but looking out she saw old Malcom. Throwing a handkerchief over her head she ran out to him exclaiming:  ' "How good you are, Mr. McTrump, to come and help me when I know you are so very busy at home." "Weel, nothin to boast on," replied Malcom, "I tho't that if ye had na one a lookin after the garden save Hannibal's 'spook,' ye'd have but a ghaistly crop. But I'm a thinkin there's mair than a ghaist been here." 1"It was Arden Lacey," said Edith frankly, but with deepening color. Malcom, in telling his wife about it said, "She looked like the rose-bush a' in bloom, that she was a stonin beside." Edith, seeing the mischievous twinkle in her little friend's eye, added hastily, ,( Both Mrs. Lacey and her son have been very kind to us in our sickness and trouble, as well as yourself. But Mr. McTrump," she continued, anxious to change the subject, also \   404     WHA T CAN SHE DO? eager to speak on the topic uppermost in her thoughts, "I think I am beginning to ' learn it a'" as you said, about that good Friend who suffeted for us that we might not suffer. What you and your wife said to me the other day led me to read the ' Gude Book' after I got home. I don't feel as I did then. I think I can trust Him now." Malcom dropped his hoe and came over into the path beside her. "God be praised," he said, "I gie ye the right hond o' fellowship an welcome ye into the kirk o' the Lord. Ye noo belong to the household o' faith, an God's true Israel, an may His gude Spirit guide ye into all truth." The little man spoke very earnestly, and with a certain dignity and authority that his small stature and rude working dress could not diminish. A sudden feeling of solemnity and awe came over Edith, and she felt as if she were crossing the mystic threshold and entering the one true church consist- ing of all believers in Christ. For a moment she reverently bowed her head, and a sweeter sense of security came over her as if- she were no longer an outsider, but had been re- ceived into the household. Malcom, a 'priest unto God " through his faith, of. ficiated at the simple ceremony. The birds sang the choral service. The wind-shaken roses, blooming around her, with their sweet odors, were the censers and incense, and the sun-lighted garden, the earliest sacred place of Bible history, where the first   EDl THS AND ARDExrS FRIENDSHP. - 405 fair woman worshipped, was the hallowed ground of the initiatory rite. i"Why, Mr. McTrump, I feel almost as if I had joinled the church," said Edith after a moment. "An sae ye ha afore God, an I hope ere long 7e'll openly profess ye're faith before men." "Do you think I ought?" said Edith thought- fillly. ( Of coorse I do, but the Gude Book 'll teach a' aboot it. Ye canna gang far astray wi' that to guide ye." "I would like to join the church that you belong to, Mr. McTrump, as soon as I feel that I am ready, for it was you and your good wife that turned my thoughts in the right direction. I was almost desper- ate with trouble and shame when I came to you that afternoon, ,and it was your speaking of the Bible and Jesus, and especially your kindness, that made me feel that there might be some hope and help in God." The old man's eyes became so moist that he turned away for a moment, but recovering himself after a little he said: "See noo, our homely deeds and words can be like the seeds we drop into the mould. Look aroon once and see how green and grand the garden is, and a' from the -wee brown seeds we planted the spring. Sae would the garden o' the Lord bloom and floorish if a' were dropin a 'word in season' and a bit o' kindness here and there. But if I stay here l an preach to ye that need na preachin, these sins *  ,    .      ,   ;.   406     WHA wT C"AN SHE DO  o' the garden, the weeds, will grow apace. Go .0u an look in ye're strawherry bed." With at: exclamation of delight Edith pounced upon a fair sized red berry, the first she had picked from her own vines. Then glancing around, one and another showed its red cheek through thl green leaves, till with a little cry of exultation, she said: "Oh, Mr. McTrump, I can get enough for mother and Laura." "Aye, and enoof to moisten ye're own red lips wi too, I'm a-thinkin. There'll be na crop the year wourth speakin of; but next June 'twill puzzle ye to gither them. But ye a' can ha a dainty sau- cer yoursels the season, when ye're a mind to stoop for them." Edith soon had the pleasure of seeing her mother and Laura enjoying some, and as Malcom said, there were plenty for her, and they tasted like the Ambro- sia of the Gods. Varied experiences had so thorough- ly engrossed her thoughts and time the past few days, that she Had scarcely looked toward her garden. But with the delicious flavor of the strawherries lin- gering in her mouth, and with the consciousness that she enjoyed picking them much more than sewing, the thought of winning her bread by the culture of the ground grew in her favor. "Oh, how much I would rather be out there with Malcom," she sighed. Glancing up from her work during the afternoon, she saw Arden Lacey on his way to -the village. There was a strange mingling of hope and feaf in   EDITIPS AND ARDENS FRIENDSHP   407 his mind. - His mother's manner had been such as to lead him to say when alone with her after break. fast: "I think your -watching has done you good, Mother, instead of wearying you too much, as -I feared." She had suddenly turned and placed both her hands on his shoulders, saying: "Arden, I hardly dare speak of it yet. It seems too good to be true, but a hope is coming into my heart like the dawn after night. She's worthy of your love, however it may result, and if I find true what-she told me last night, I shall have reason to bless her name forever; but I see only a glimmer of light yet and I rejoice with fear and trembling." And she told him what had occurred. He was deeply moved, but not for the same cause as his mother. His desire ind devotion Went no farther than Edith. "' Can she have read my let- tet?"' he thought, and he was consumed with anx- iety for some expression of her feeling toward him. Therefore he was glad that business called him to the village that afternoon, but his steps were slow as he approached the little cottage, and his eyes, were upon it as a pilgrim gazes at a shrine he lrirg has sought. He envied Malcom working in the garden, and felt that if he could work there every day, it would be Adam's life before he fell. Then- he caught a glimpse of Edith sewing at the window, and he dropped his eyes instantly. He would not be so afraid of a battery of a hundred guns as of   408     WHA I' CAr SITE D0? that poor sewing-girl (for such Edith now was), stitching away on Mrs. Groody's coarse hotel linen. But Edith had noted his timid, wistful looks, and calling Hannibal, said; "Please give that note to Mr. Lacey. He is just passing toward the vill: e." Hannibal, with the impressive dignity he had learned in olden times, handed the missive to Ardent, saying: "Miss Edie telled me to guve you dis 'scription." If Hannibal had been Hebe he could riot have been a more welcome messenger. Arden could not help his hand trembling as he took the letter, but he managed to say: 'I hope Miss Allen is well." "Her health am berry much disproved," and Hannibal retired with a stately bow. Arden quickened his steps, holding the missive in- his hand. As soon as he was out of sight, he opened and devoured Edith's words. Thelight of 2 great joy dawned in his face, and made it look noble and beautiful, as indeed almost every human face appears, when the light of a pure love falls upon it. 'Where most men would have murmured at the meagre return for their affection, he felt himself immeasurably rewarded and enriched, and it seemed as if he were walking on air the rest of the day. With a face set like a flint, he resolved to be true to the condition -implied in the underscored word "friendship," and never to whisper of love to her again. But a richer experience was still in store for   EDITIS AND ARDEN  S FRIENDSHP.  409 him. For, on his return, in the cool of the evening, Edith was in the garden picking currants. She saw him coming, and thought, "If he is ever to be a friend worth the name, I must break the ice of his absurd diffidence and formality. And the sooner he comes to know me as I am, the sooner he will' find out that I am like other people, and he will have a new ' revelation' that will cure him of his infatuation. I. would like him for a friend very much, not only because I need his help, but because one likes a little society now and then, and he seems so well educated, if he is ' quar,' as Hannibal says." So she startled poor Arden almost as much as if one of his Shakspearean heroines had called him in audible voice, by saying, as he came opposite her, "Mr. Lacey, won't you come in a moment and tell me if it is time to pick my currants, and whether you think I could sell them in the village, or at the hotel?" This address, so matter-of-fact in tone and char- acter, seemed to him like the June twilight, contain- ing, in some subtle manner, the essence of all that. was ,beautiful and full of promise in his heart-his- tory. He bowed and went toward the little gate to comply with her request, as Adam might if he had been created outside of Eden and Eve inside, and she had looked over a flowering hedge in the purple twilight, and told himn to come in. He was not going merely to look at currants and consider their marketable condition, he was entering openly upon the knightly service to which he, had devoted him-   "O     WHAT CA N SHE DO? self. 'He was approaching his idol, which was not a heathen stock or 'stone, but a sweet little woman. In regard to the currants he ventured dubiously: "They might do for pies." In regard to herself, his eyes said, ill spite of his purpose to be merely friendly, that she was too good for the gods of Mount Olympus. He both amused and interested Edith, whose long familiarity with so ciety and lack of any such feeling as swayed him, made her quite at ease. With a twinkle in her eyes, she said: "I have thought that perhaps Mrs. Geoody could help me find sale for them at the hotel." "I am going there to-morrow, and I will'ask her tor you, if you wish," said Arden, timidly. "Thank you," replied Edith, "I would be very much obliged to you if you will. You see I wish to sell everything out of the garden that I can find a market for." She was rather astonished at the effect of this mercenary speech, for there was a wonderful blend- ing of sympathy and admiration in his face, as he said: "I am frequently g6ing to the hotel and village, and if you will let me know what you have to dis- pose of, I can find out whether it is in demand, and carry it to market for you." He could not help adding, with a voice trembling with feeling, "Miss Allen, I am so glad you permit me to be of some help to you." "Oh dear," thought Edith, how can I make him     iEDITHS AND ARDEA'S FRIENDSHP.  41  understand what I really am?"She turned -to him with an expression that was both perplexed. and quizzical, and said: "Mr. Lacey, I very frankly and gratefully accept your delicately-offered friendship (emphasizing the last word), not only because of my need, but of yours also. If any one needs a sensible friend, I think you do. You truly must have lived a ' hermit's life in the world' to have such strange ideas of people. Let me tell you as a perfect certainty, that no such person exists as the Edithl Allen that you have imagined. She is no more a reality than your other shadows, and the more you know of me the sooner you will find it out. I amJ not in the least like a heroine in a romance. I live Mn the most substan- tial food rather than moonlight, and usually have an excellent appetite. I am the most practical, matter- of-fact creature in existence, and you will find no one in this place more sharp on the question of dol- lars and cents. Indeed, I am continually in a most mercenary frame of mind, and this very moment here; in the romantic June twilight, if you ransacked history, poetry, and all the fine arts, you could not tell me anything half so beautiful, half so wel- come, as how to make money in a fair, honorable way." "There," thought she, " that will be another' reve- lation' to him. If he don't jump over the garden fence in his haste to escape such a monster, I shall be glad." But Arden's face only grew more grave and gent   4I2     H;'fA T CAN SHE DO! tie as he looked down upon her, and he asked, in a low tone: * Is it because you love the money itself, Miss Allen?" "Well, no," said Edith, somewhat taken aback. ' I can never earn enough to make it worth while to do that. Misers love to count their money," she added, with a little pathetic accent in her voice, "and I fear mine will go before I can count it." "ou wish me to think less of you, then, because you are bravely, and without thought of sparing yourself, trying to earn money to provide home- shelter and comfort for your feeble mother and sis. ter. You wish me to think you common-place because you have the heroism to do any kind of work, rather than be helpless and dependent. Par. don me, but for such a 'practical, matter-of-fact' lady, I do not think your logic is good." Edith's vexation and perplexity only increased, and she said, earnestly, "But I wish you to under- stand that I am only Edith Allen, and as poor, as poverty, nothing but a sewing-girl, and'only hoping to arrive at the dignity of a gardener. The majority of the world thinks I am not even fit to speak to,' she added, in a low tone. Arden bowed his head, as if in reverence before her, and then said, in a low, firm tone, -- *' And I wish you to understand that I am -only Arden Lacey, with a sot for a father, and the scorn, contempt, and hatred of all the world as, my heri. tage. I am a slip-shod fartner. Our place is heavily i    EDITH'S AND ARDEN'S FRIENDSHP. 413 mortgaged, and will eventually be sold away from us. It grows more weeds now than anything else; and it seems that nettles have been the principal crop that I have reaped all my life. Thus, you see, I am poorer than poverty, and am rich only in my mother, and, eventually, I hope," he added timidly, "in the possession of your friendship, Miss Allen; I shall try so sincerely and hard to deserve it." With a frown, a laugh, and a shy look of sym- pathy at him, Edith said, "I don't see but you have got to find out your mistake for yourself. Time and facts cure many follies." But she found little encouragement in his incredulous smile. The next moment she turned upon him so sharply that he was startled. "I am a business woman," she said, "and con- duct my affairs on business principles. You said, I think, you would help me find a market for the produce of my place?" "Certainly," he replied. "As certainly you must take fifteen per cent. com. mission on all sales." "Oh, Miss Allen," commenced Arden, ' I couldn't  " ' There,", said she decisively, " you haven't the first idea of business. Not a thing can you touch unless you comply with my conditions. There is no sentiment, I assure you, connected with currants and cabbages." "You may be certain, Miss Allen, that I would comply with any condition," said Arden, with the   "4     WHA T CALN SHE DO? air of one who is cornered, " but let me suggest that since we are arranging this matter so strictly on business grounds, that ten per cent. is all I should take. That is the regular commission, and is ail I pay in sending produce to New York." "Oh, I didn't know that," said the experienced and uncompromising woman of business, innocently. i' Do you think that would pay you for your trouble?"  "I think it would," he replied, so demurely and yet with such a twinkle in his blue eyes, that now looked very different with the light of hope and happiness in them, that Edith turned away with a laugh. But she said, with assumed sharpness, ," See that you keep your accounts straight. I shall be a very dragon over your account-book." Thus the ice was broken, and Edith and Arden became friends. The future has now been quite clearly indicated to the reader, and, lest my story should grow weari- some as a " twice told tale," we pass over several subsequent months with but a few words. It was not a good fruit year, and Edith's place had been sadly neglected previous to her possession. Therefore, though Arden surprised himself in the sharp business traits he developed as Edith's sales- man, the results were not very large. But still they greatly assisted her, and amounted to more than the earnings of her unskilled hands from other sources. She insisted on doing everything on busi.   EDITH'S AND ARDEN'S FRIENDSHP. 415 ness principles, and made Arden take his ten per cent., which was of real help to him in this way. He gave all the money to his mother, saying, "I couldn't spend it to save my life." Mrs. Lacey had many uses for every penny she could obtain. Then Edith paid old Malcom by making up bou- quets for sale at the hotel, and arranging baskets of flowers for parties there and elsewhere, and other lighter labors. Mrs. Groody continued to send her work- and thus during the summer and early fall she managed to make her garden and her labor provide for all family expenses, saving what was left of the four hundred after paying all debts, for winter need. - Moreover, she stored away in cellar and attic enough of the products of the garden to be of great help also.      - Mrs. Allen did recover her usual health, and also her usual modes of thought and feeling. The men- tal and moral habits of a life-time are not readily changed. Often and earnestly did Edith talk with her mother, but with few evidences of the result she longed to see. Mrs. Alien's condition, in view of the truth, was the most hopeless one of all. She saw only her preconceived ideas, and not the truth itself. One day she said, with some irritation, to Edith, who was pleading with her, "Do you think I am a heathen? Of course, I believe the Bible. Of cours'e, I believe in Jesus Christ. I have been a member of the church ever since I was sixteen." *      O \   "6   ?    t4tr r Ca4 xSHc .DO)? Edith sighed, and thought, "Only He who can satisfy her need, can reveal it to her." Poor Mrs. Allen. With the strange infatuation of a worldly mind, she was turning to it, and it alone, for hope and solace. Untaught by the wretched experience of the past, she was led to enter upon a new and similar scheme for the aggran. dizement of her family, as will be explained in an- other chapter. Laura regained her strength somewhat, and was able to relieve Edith of the care of her mother, and the lighter duties of the house. Her faith de- veloped like that shy, delicate blossom, called the "wind-flover," easily shaken, and yet with a cer- tain hardiness and power to live and, thrive in sterile places.   Edith and Mrs. Lacey were eventually received into the church that Malcom attended, and, after the simple service, they took dinner with the old Scotchman and his wife. Malcom  seemed hardly ' in the body " all day. "My heart's abloom," he said," wi' a' the sweet posies that God ever made blush. when he looked at them the first time, an' ye seem the sweetest o' them a', Miss Edith. Ah, but the Gude Husband. man gthered a fair blossom the day." "Now, Mr. McTrump," said Edith, reproachfully, but with a-face lke Malcom's posies, "you shouldn't ,ive compliments ox Sunday."  For Arden and Zose were present also, and Edith thought " such 6olish *vords will only increase his infatuation." 5y                       '   EDITF S AND ARDE)^S FRIENDSHP.  4I 7 "Weel," said Malcom, scratching his head, in his perplexed effort at apology, "I wud na mak ye vain, nor hurt ye're conscience, but it kind o' slipit out afore I could stop it." In the laugh that followed Malcom's explanation Edith felt that matters had not been helped much, and she adroitly turned the conversation. Public opinion, from being at first very bitter and scornful against the Aliens, gradually began to soften. One after another, as they recognized Edith's patient, determined effort to do right, began to give her the credit and the respect to which she was en. titled. Little acts and tokens of kindly feeling be- came more frequent, and were like glints of sunlight on her shadowed path. But the great Inajority felt that they could have no associations with such as the Allens, and completely ignored them. In her church relations, Edith and Mrs. Lacey found increasing satisfaction. Many of its humble, and some of its more influential members, treated them with much kindness and sympathy, and they realized more and more that there are good, kind people in the world, if you look in the right way and right places for them. The Rev. Mr. Knox was a faithful preacher and pastor, and if his ser- mons were a little dry an d doctrinal at times, they were as sound and sweet as a nut. Moreover, both Edith and Mrs. -Lacey were sadly deficient in the doctrines, neither having ever had any religious in" struction, and they listened with the grave, earnest interest of those desiring to be fed.   l' 8      m4 r CA4N SE O  Mrs. Groody re-connecfed herself with her old churchsaid. I want to go where I canshout, Glory " sle s  aid." Rose but faintly sympathized with her mother's feelings. Her restless, ambitious spirit turned long inglytoward the vorld. It's attractions she could understand, but not those of faith. Through her father's evil habits, and Arden's poor farming, the pressure of poverty rested heavier and heavier on the family, and she had about- resolved to go to New York and find employment in some store. Arden rarely went to church, but read at home. He was somewhat skeptical in regard to the Bible; not that he had ever carefully examined either it or its evidences but he had read much of the preva- lent semi-infidelity, and was a littl e conceited over his independent thinking. Then, ill a harsh, sweep ing cynicism, he utterly detested church people, calling them the " holy sect of the Pharisees." "But they are not all such," his mother would say. "Oh, no," he would reply; r there are some sin- cere ones, of course; but I think they would be better out than in such a company of hypocrites." But as he sap Edith's sincerity, and learned of her purpose to unite with the church, he kept these views more and more in the background; but he had too much respect for her's and his mother's faith to go with them to what they regarded as a -saced place, from merely- the personal motive of being near Edith.   EDITH'S AND ARDEN'S FRIENDSHP. 419 One day Mrs. Lacey and Edith walked down to the evening prayer-meeting. Arden, who had business in the village, was to call for them at its close; as they were wallking home Edith suddenly asked him, "Why don't you go to church?" "I don't like the people I meet there." "What have you against them?" "Well, there is Mr. Hard. He is one of the ' lights and pillars ;' and he would have sold the house over your head, if you had not paid him. He can ' de- vour a widow's house' as well as they of olden time." "That is not the question," said the practical Edith, earnestly. "What have you to do with Mr. Hard, or he with you? Does he propose-is he able to save you? The true question is, what have you got against Jesus Christ?" "Well, really, Miss Edith, I can have nothing against Him. Both history and legend unite in presenting Him as one of the purest and noblest of men. But pardon me if I say in all honesty that I cannot quite accept your beliefs in regard to Him and the Bible in general. A man can hardly be a man without exercising the right of independent thought. I cannot take a book called the Bible for granted.-" "But," asked Edith keenly, " are you not taking other books for granted? Answer me truly, Mr. Lacey, have you carefully and patiently investigated this subject, not only on the side of your skeptical writers, but on God's side also. He has plenty of *         . -   ,*,IV -  v Brn .1 YYGIV Yf DOCI? facts, as well .as the infidels, and my rich lasting rational spiritual experience is as much a fact as that stone there, and a good deal higher and better one, I think." Arden was silent for some little time, and they could see in the moonlight that his face was very grave and thoughtful. At last he said in\ a low tone, as if it had been wrung from him, "Miss Alien, to be'honest with you and myself, I have never, given the subject such a fair examina- tion." After a moment he continued, '"Even if H became convinced that all were true, I might still remain at home, for I could find far more advantage in reading books, or the Bible itself, than from Mr Knox's dry sermons." "I think you are wrong," said Edith, gently but firmly.  "Granting the premise, you. admitted a moment ago that Christ was one of the purest and noblest of men, you surely, with your chivalric instincts, would say that such a man ought to be imitated." "Yes," said Arden, "and  He denounced the Pharisees." "'And He worshipped with them   also," said Edith quickly.  He went to the temple with the thers. What was there to interest him in the dreary orlorn little synagogue at Nazareth, and yet He vas there with. the regularity of the Sabbath. It vas the best form of faith and worship then exist. ng, and He  sustained it by every' means in His Dower, till He could give the people something bet. .       . Hi5T          ,?= -e- w 0ut;'c,"+ri' dS:X   EDITH'S AND A RDEN'S FRIENDSHP.  421  ter, Suppose all the churches in this place were closed, not one in a hundred would or could read the books you refer to. If your example was folo  :  lowed they would be closed. As far as your ex- ample goes it tends to close them. I have heard Mr,. Kiox say, that wherever Christian worship and the Christian Sabbath is not observed, society rapidly deteriorates. Is it not true?" They had stopped at Edith's gate.  Arden averted his face for a moment, then turning toward Edith he/gave her his hand, saying in a low tone: "Yes, it is true, and a true, faithful friend you have been to me to-night. I admit myself van- quished." Edith gave his hand a cordial pressure, saying earnestly, "You are not vanquished by the young ignorant girl, Edith Allen, but by the truth that  will yet vanquish the world."   . After that Arden went regularly with them to church, and tried to give sincere attention to the service, but his uncurbed fancy was wandering, to the ends of the earth most of the time; or his   ; thoughts were dwelling in rapt attention on Edith. She, after all, was the only object of his faith and worship, though he had a growing intellectual con- : viction that her faith was true. And so the months passed into autumn, but with the nicest sense of honor he refrained from word or ^ r : deed that would remind Edith that he was- her  lover. She became greatly attached to him, and he seemed almost like a brother to her. She found--    422      WHA T CWN SHE DO0 increasing pleasure in his society, for Arlen, afte- the restraint of his diffidence was banished, c uld talk well, and h1e opened to her the rich treasures of his reading, and with almost a poet's fancy and power pictured to her the storied past. To both herself and Mrs. Lacey life grew sunnier and sweeter. But they each had a heavy burden on their hearts, which they daily brought to the feet of the Compassionate One. They united in praying for Mrs. Lacey's husband, and for Zell; and their strong faith and love would take no denial. But, as Laura had said, the silence of the grave seemed to have swallowed lost Zell   CHAPTER   XXXI. ZELL. A ND the silence of the grave " ought to swal low such as poor Zeil had become, is, per. haps, the thought of some. All reference to her and her class should be suppressed. We firmly say, No! If so, the New Testament must be suppressed. The Divine Teacher spoke plainly both of the sin and the sinner. He had scathing denunciation for the one, and compassion and mercy for the other. Shall we enforce His teachings against all other forms of evil, and not against this deadliest one of all- and that, too, in the laxity and wide demoralization of our age, when temptation lurks on every hand, and parents are often sleepless with just anxiety? Evil is active, alluring, suggesting, insinuating itself when least expected, and many influences are at work, with the full approval of society, to poison forever all pure thoughts.' And temptation is sure to come at first as an angel of light, There is no safety save in solemn words of warn- ing, the wholesome terror which knowledge inspires  the bracing of principle, and the ennobling of Chris- tian faith. There are too many incarnate fiends   424     WHAT CAN SHE DO? who will take advantage of the innocence of igno. rance. Zell is not in her grave. She is sinning, but more sinned against. He who said to one like her, of old, "Her sins, which are many, are fprgiven," loves her still, and Edith is praying for her. The grave can- not close over her yet. But as we look upon this long-lost one, as she re. clines on a sofa in Van Dam's luxurious apart- ments, as we see her temples throbbing with pain, and that her cheeks are flushed and feverish, it would seemn at the grave might soon hide her from a contemptuous and vindictive world. Her head does ache sadly, it seems bursting with pain ; but her heart aches with a bitterer anguish. Zell had too fine a nature to sin brutally and unfeel- ingly. Her betrayer's treachery wounded her more deeply than he could understand. Even her first strong love for him could not bridge the chasm of guilt to which he led her, and her passionate nature and remorse often caused her to turn upon him with such scathing reproaches that even he, in his hardihood, trembled. Knowing how proud and high-strung she was, he feared to reveal his treachery in New York, a locality with which she was familiar; so he said that very important business called him at once- to Bos. ton, a city where he had very few acquaintances, Zell reluctanthy acquiesced to this further journeyl He meant to register in an assumed name, but the landlord- said to him as he entered the office,   ,   ZELL.         425 , Why, Van Dam, how are you?" "Where have you seen me?" was the gruff reply. "' Why, don't you remember? We played poker together all the way from Buffalo to Albany, and you lightened my pocket-book wofully too. This is your wife, I suppose." "Yes," said Van Dam, thinking, "It will attract less attention and be safest." "Well, I'm glad to see you--can give you a good room. So register, and I will get a little of my lost money back," and the host slapped him on the back with a hearty laugh. Van Dam with a frown wrote, "Guilliam Van Dam and wife." By no more sacred or gracious ceremony than this did he ever reward her trust and love. They jaunted about in the North and West through the summer and autumn, and now have but recently returned to New York. With a wild terror she saw that his passion for her was waning. Therefore her reproaches and- threats became at times almost terrific, and again her servile entreaties were even more pitiable and dreadful, in view of what a true wife's position and right ought to be. He, wearying of her fierce and alternating moods, and selfishy thinking of his own ease and comfort, as was ever the case, had resolved to throw her off at the first opportunity. But retribution for both was near. The -small pox was almost epidemic in the city: Zell's silk had   Ac**;t}V 4s PEAT CGAN S4   DO   - I  swept against a beggar's infected rags, and fourteen days later appeared the fatal symptoms. And truly she is weary and heart-sick this after. noon. She never remembered feelingso ill. The thought of death appalled her. She feltl as never before, that she wanted some one to love and take care of her. Van Dam entered, and said, rather roughly, "What's the matter?" "I'm sick,"' said Zell, faintly. He muttered an oath. She arose from the sofa and tottered to his easy chair, kne!t, and clasped his knees. "Guilliam," she pleaded, "I am very sick. I have a feeling that I shall die. Won't you marry me? Won't you take care of your poor little Zell, that loved you so well as to leave all for you-? Perhaps I won t burden you much longer, but, if I do get well, I will be your patient slave, if you will only marry me;" and the tears poured over the hot, feverish cheeks, that they could not cool. . His only reply was to ask, with some irritation, "How do you feel?" "Oh, my head aches, my bones ache, every part of my body aches, but my heart aches worst of all. You can ease that, Guilliam. In the name of God's mercy, won't you?" A sudden thought caused the cowardls face to grow white with fear. "I must have a doctor see ou," was his only reply to her appeal, and he pass [ Ed hastily out.   ZELL.         427 Zell felt that a blow would have been better than his indifference, and she crawled back to her couch. A little later, she was conscious that a physician was feeling her pulse, and examining her symptoms. After he was gone she had strength enough to take off her jewelry and rings-all, save one solitaire diae mond, that her father had given her. The rest seemed to oppress her with their weight. She then threw herself on the bed. She was next conscious that some one was lifting her up. She roused for a moment, and stared around. There were several strange faces. "What do you want? What are you going to :do with me?" she asked, in a thick voice, and a vague terror. "I am sorry, Miss," said one of the men, in an official tone ; "but you have the small-pox, and we must take you to the hospital." She gave one shriek of horror. A hand was placed over her mouth. She murmured faintly: "Guilliam-help!" and then, under the effects of disease and fear, became partially unconscious; but her hand clenched, and with some instinct hard. to understand, remained so, over the diamond ring that was her father's gift. She was conscious of riding in something hard over the stony street, for the jolting hurt her cruelly. She was conscious of the sound -of water, for she tried to throw herself into it, that it might cool her fever. She was conscious of reaching some place, and thin she felt as if she had no rest for many   w 42 8    W WHAT CAN SHE DO? days, and yet was not awake. But through it all she kept her hand closed on her father's gift. At times it seemed 'to her that some one was trying to take it off, but she instinctively struggled and cried out, and the hand was withdrawn. At last one night she seemed to really wake and come to herself. She opened her eyes and looked timidly around the dim ward. All was strange and unaccountable. She feared that she was in another world. But as she raised her hand to her head, as if to clear away the mist- of uncertainty, a, sparkle from the diamond caught her eye. For a long time she stared vacantly at it, with the weak, vague feeling that in' some sense it might be a clue. Its faint lustre was like the glimmer of a star through a -rift in the clouds to a lost traveler. Its familiar light and position reminds him of home, and by its ray he guesses in what direction to move; so the crystallized light upon her finger threw its- faint glimmer into the past, and by its help Zell's weak mind groped its way down from the hour it was given to the moment when she became partially unconscious in Van Dam's apartments. But the word small-pox was burned into her brain, and she surmised that she was in a hospital. At last a woman passed. Zell feebly called her "What do you want?" said a -rather gruff voice. "I want to write a letter." "You can't. It's against the rules." "I must," pleaded Zell. "Oh, as you are a woman, and hope, in God's mercy, don't refuse me."   ZELL.        429 o. Can't break the rules," said the woman, and she was about to pass on.  "Stop!" said Zell, in a whisper. "See there," and she flashed the diamond upon her, "I'll give you that if you'll promise before God to send a let- ler for me. It would take you many Months to earn the value of that." The woman was a part of the city government, so she acted characteristically. She brought Zell writing materials and a bit of candle, saying: "Be quick!" With her poor, stiff, diseased hand, Zell wrote: "GUILLIAM :-You cannot know where H am. You cannot know what has happened. You could not be such a fiend as to cast me off and send me here to die-and die I shall. The edge of the grave seems crumbling under me as I write. If you have a spark of love for me. come and see me before I die. Oh, Guilliam, Guilliam! what a heaven of a home I would have made you, if you had only mar- ried me. It would have been my whole life to make you happy, I said bitter words to you-forgive them. We both have sinned-can God forgive us: I will not believe you know what has happened. You are grieving for me-looking for me. They took me away while you were gone.- ComSand see me before I die. Good-bye I'm writing il the dark -l'm dying in the dark-my soul is in the dark-- I'm going away in the dark-where, O God, where?- "Your poor, little  "ZELL" "SMALL-POX HOSPITAL (I don't know date)." ,     -*   430     WHAT CAN SHE DO? Poor, poor Zell! Like to a tempest-tossed one of old, " sun moon, and stars " had long been hid. den. Almost fainting with weakness, she sealed and directed the letter, drew off the ring, pressed it to her lips, and then turned her eyes, unnaturally large and bright, on the woman waiting at her side, and said: "Look at me! Promise me you will see that this letter is delivered. Remember, I am going to die. If you ever hope for an hour's peace, promise!" "I promise," said the woman solemnly, for she was as superstitious as avaricious, and though she had no hesitancy in breaking the rules and taking a bribe, she would not have dared for her life to have risked treachery to a girl, whom she believed dying. Zell gave her the ring and the letter, and sank back for the time unconscious. The woman had her means of communication with the city, and before many hours elapsed the letter was on its way. Van Dam was in a state of nervous fear till the fourteen days passed, and then he felt that he was safe. He had his rooms thoroughly fumigated, and was reassured by his physicians slaying daily, "There was not much danger of her giving you the disease in its first stage. She is probably dead by this time."' But the wheels of life seemed to grow heavier and more clogged every day. He was fast getting   ZELL.        431 down to the dregs, and now almost every pleasure palled upon his jaded taste. At one time it seemed that Zell might so infuse her vigorous young lif and vivacity into his waning years that his last dayl would be his best. And this might have been the case, if he had reformed his evil life and dealt with her as a true man. In her strong and exceptional love, considering their difference in age, there were great possibilities of good for both. But he had foully perverted the last best gift of his life, and even his blunted moral sense was awakening to the "Curse it all," he muttered, late one morning, "perhaps I had better have married her. I hoped so much from her, and she has been nothing but a source of trouble and danger. I wonder if she is dead." tie had beenl out very late the night before, and had played heavily, but not with his usual skill. He had kept muttering grim oaths against his luck, and drinking deeper and deeper till a friend had half forced him away. And now, much shaken by the, night's debauch, depressed by his heavy losses, con- science, that crouches like a tiger in every bad man's soul, and waits to rush from its lair-and rend, in the long hours-the long eternity of weakness and memory-already had its fangs in his guilty heart. Long and bitterly he thought, with a fi own rest- ing like night on his heavy brow. The servant brought him a dainty breakfast, but he sullenly motioned it away. Hehad wronged his digestive   powers so greatly the night before that even brandyv  was repugnant to himn, and he leaned heavily and wearily back in his chair-, a prey to remorse. He was ill just the right physical condition to take There was a knock at the door, and the servant entered, bringing him a letter, saying, "This was just left here for ye, sir." "A dun," thought he, languidly, and he laid it unopened on the stand besidehim. It was and from one whomn he owed a repara- tion he could never make, though he paid with his life. With his eyes closed, he still leaned back in a dull, painful lethargy. A faint, disagreeable odor gradually pervaded the room, and at last attracted his attention. The luxurious sybarite could not help the stings of conscience, the odor he might. He grew restless, and looked around. Zell's letter caught his attention. Might as well see who it's from," he muttered. Weakness, pain, and emotion had so changed Zell's familiar hand, that he did not recognize it. But, as he opened, and read, his eyes dilated with horror. .It seemed like a dead hand grasping him- out of the darkness. But a dreadful fascination compelled him to read every line, and re-read them, till they seemed burned into his memory. At last, by a desperate effort, he broke the strong spell her words -had placed upon him, and,-starting up, e'c   ZELL.         433 "Go to her, in that pest-house! I would see her dead a thollsand times first. I hope she is dead, for she is the torment of my life. What is it that smells so queer?" HIis eyes again rested on the letter. A suspicion crossed his mind. He carried the letter to his nose, and then started violently, uttering awful oaths. " She has sent the contagion directly to me," he groaned, and he threw poor Zell's appeal on the grate. It burned with a faint, sickly odor. Then, as the day was raw and windy, a sudden gust down the chimney blew it all out into the room, and scattered it in ashes, like Zell's hopes, around his feet. A superstitious horror, that made his flesh creep and hair rise, took possession of him,' and hastily gathering a few necessary things, he rushed out into the chill air, and made his way to a large hotel. He wanted to be in a crowd. He wanted the hard, material world's noise and bustle around him. He wanted to hear men talking about gold and stocks, and the gossip of the town-anything that would make. living on seem a natural, possible matter of course. But men's voices sounded strange and unfamiliar, and the real world seemed like that which mocks us in our dreams. Mingling with all he saw and heard were Zell's despairing looks and Zell's despairing words. He wrapped himself in his great coat, he drank frequent 'and fiery potations, he hovered  43 4 '   WHAT CAN SEHW DO  around the registers, but nothing could take away the chill at his heart. He tossed feverishy all night. - His sudden exposure to the raw wind in his heated, excited condition caused a severe cold, But he would not give up. He dared not stay alone in his roo n, and so crept down to the public haunts of the hotel. But his flushed cheeks and strange manner attracted attention. As the days passed, he grew worse, and the proprietor of -the house said, "You are ill, you must go to bed." But he would not. There was nothing that he seemed to dread so much as being alone. But the guests began to grow afraid of -him. There was general and wide-spread fear of the small-pox in the city, and for some reason, it began to be associa- ted with his illness. As the suspicion was whispered around, all shrank from him. The proprietor had him examined at once by a physician. It was the fatal fourteenth day, and the dreaded symptoms were apparent. "' Have you -no friends, no home to which you can go?" he was asked. "No," he groaned, while the thought pierced his soul. "She would have made me one and taken care of me in it." But he pleaded, "For God's sake, don't send me away." "I must," said the proprietor, frightened himself. "The law requires it, and your presence here would empty my house in an hour." So, in the dusk, like poor Zell, he was smuggled down a back stairway, and sent to the" pest-house"   ZE  L.       435 also, he groaning and crying with terror all the way i                 n Zell did not die. Her vigorous constitution ral lied, and she rapidly regained strength . But with strength and power of thought, came the certainty to her mind-of Van Dam's utter and final abandon- enrt of her. She felt that all the world would now be  against her, and that she would be ; driven from every safe and pleasant path. The thought of taking her shame to her home was a horror to her, and she felt sure that Edith would spurn her from the door. At first she wept bitterly and despairingly, and wished she had died. But gradually she grew hard, reckless, and cfuel under her wrong, and her everyt t1ought of Van Dam was a curse. The woman  who helped her to write the letter greatly startled her one day, by saying, ,'The's a man in the men's wad who in his ravin' speaks of you." "Could he, in just retribution, have been sent here also?" she thought. Pleading relationship, she was admitted to see him. Hle shuddered as he saw her advancing, with stony face and eyes in which glared relentless hate. "Curse you!" he muttered, feebly, with his parched lips. "Go away, living or dead, I know not which you are; but I know it was through you I came here " Her only answer was a mocking smile. The doctor came and examined his symptoms. - , Will he get well?" she asked, following him away a short distance.   436     W-A T CAN4 SHE DO? 1' No,' said the physician. * Hie will die." Her cheek blanched for a moment; but from her eyes glowed a deadly gleam of satisfaction. ' What did he say?" whispered Van Dam. He says you will die," she answered, in a stony voice. "You see, I am better than you were. You would not come to me for even one poor moment. YoU left me to die alone; but I will stay and watch with you." "Oh, go away!" groaned Van Dam. ' I couldn't be so heartless," she said, in a mock- ing tone. "You need dying consolation. I want to tell you, Guilliam, what was in my mind the night I left all for you. I did doubt you a little. rhat is where I sin'ned; but I shall only suffer for that through all eternity," she said, with a reckless laugh that chilled his soul. "But then, I hoped, I felt almost su., you would marry me; and, oh, wheat a heaven of a home I purposed to make you. If you had only let even a magistrate say, ' I pro- nounce you man and wife,' I would have been your patient slave. I would have kissed away even your headaches, and had you ten contagions, they should . not have brought you here, for I would have taken ' care of you and nursed you back to life." "Go away!" groaned Van Dam, with more energy. "Guilliam," she said taking his hand, which shud. dered at her touch- " we might have had a happy little home bythis time. We might have learned to live a good life in this world and have prepared for a :  ,       . . - .      i . .. , ...   ZELL.        437- better one in the next. Little children might have put their soft arms around your neck, and with their innocent kisses banished the memory and the power of the evil past. Oh," she gasped, 'how happy we might have been, and mother, Edith, and Laura would have smiled upon us. But what is now our condition?" she said bitterly,. her grip upon his hand becoming hard and fierce. "You have made me a tigress. I must cower and hide through life like a wild beast in a jungle. And you are dying and going to hell," she hissed in his ear, "and by-and-bye, when I get to be an old ugly hag, I will come and torment you there forever and for- ever." "Curse you, go away," shrieked the terror- stricken man. An attendant hastened to the spot; Zell was standing at the foot of the cot, glaring at him. "I thought you was a relation of his'n," said the man roughly. "So I am," said Zell sternly. "As the one stung is related to the viper that stung him, "and with a withering look she passed away. That night Van Dam died.  In process of time Zell was turned adrift in the city. She applied vainly at stores and shops for a situation. She had no good clothes, and appear  ances were against her. She had a very little money in her portmonnaie when she was taken to the hos t pital. 'This was given to her on leaving, and she made it go as far as possible. At last she went to ' * , ; . I  --;  , 7 *   438'     WHA T CAN SHE DOa an intelligence office and sat among the others, who looked suspiciously at her. They instinctively felt that she was not of their ilk. "What can you do?" was the frequent questionl. She did not know how to do a single thing, but thought that perhaps the position of waitress would be the easiest. "Where are your references?" It was her one thought and effort to conceal all reference to the past. At last the proprietor in pity sent her to a lady who had told him to supply her with a waitress; the place was in Brooklyn, and Zell was glad, for she had less fear there of seeing any one she knew. The lady-scolded bitterly about such an ignora- mus being sent to her, but Zell seemed so patient and willing that she decided to try her. Zell gave her whole soul to the work, and though the place was a hard one, would have eventually learned to fill it. The family were a little surprised sometimes at her graceful movements, and the quick gleams of intelligence in her large eyes, as some remark was made naturally beyond one in her sphere. One day they were trying to recall, while at the table, the name of a famous singer at the opera. Before she thought the name was almost out of her lips. The poor girl tried to disguise herself by assuming, as well as she could, the stolid, stupid manner of :those who usually blunder about our homes. All might have gone well, and she have gained an honest livelihood, had not an unforeseen cir'cum .             . '    -    ZELL.   .439 stance revealed her past life. Those who have done wrong are never safe. At the most unexpect. ed time, and in the most unexpected way, their sin may stand out before all and blast them. Zell's mistress had told her to make a little extra preparation, for she expected a gentleman to dilne that evening. With some growing pride and in- terest in her work, she had done her best, and even her mistress said: "' Jane" (her assumed name,) " you are improv- ing," and a gleam of something like hope and pleas- ure shot across the poor child's face. A passionate sigh came up from her heart, "Oh, I will try to do right-if the world will let me."          .  . But imagine her terror as she saw an old crony of Van Dam's enter the room. The man recognized her in a moment, and she saw that he did. She gave him an imploring glance, which he returned by one of cool contempt. Zell could hardly get through the meal, and her manner attracted atten- tion. The cold-blooded fellow, whose soul was akin to that of his dead friend, was considerate enough to his hostess not to spoil her dinner, or rob her of a waitress till it was over. But the moment they returned to the parlor he told who Zell was, and how she must have just come from the small-pox hospital. The lady (?) was in a frenzy of rage and fear. She rushed down to where Zell was panting with weakness and emotion, exclaiming:   - 44    WHA T CA N SHE DO? "You- shameful huzzy, how dare you come into a respectable house, after your loathsome life, and loathsome disease?" Hear me," pleaded Zell, ( the doctor said there was no danger, and I want to do what is right." "I don't believe a word you say. I wouldn't trust you a minute. How much you have stolen now it will be hard to tell, and I shouldn't wonder if we all had the small-pox. Leave the house instantly." "' Oh, please give me a chance," cried Zell, on her knees. "Indeed, I am honest. I'll work for you fnr nothing, if you will let me stay." "Leave instantly, or I will call for a policeman." "Then pay me my week's wages," sobbed Zell. "I won't pay you a cent, you brazen creature. You didn't know how to do anything, and have been a torment ever since you came. I might have ' known there was something wrong. Now go, take your old, pest-infected rags out of my house, or I will have you sent to where you properly belong. Thank Heaven, I have found you out." A sidden change came over Zell. She sprang tip, and a scowl black as night darkened her face. "What has Heaven to do with your sending a poor girl out into the night, I would like to know? ' she asked, in a harsh, grating voice; "I wouldn't do it. Therefore I am better than you are. Heaven has nothing to do with either you or me;"- and she looked so dark and dangerous that her mistress was frightened, and ran up to the parlor, exclaiming:   :ZE %l.        441: a She's an awful creature. I'm afraid of her. ' Then that manly being, her husband, towergl up in his wrath, saying majestically, "I guess I'm mast ter in my own house yet," He showed poor Zell the door. Her laugh rang out recklessly, as she called: "Good-bye. May the pleasant thought that you have sent one more soul to perdition, lull you to sweet sleep." But, for some reason, it did not. When they be- came cool enough to think it over, they admitted that perhaps they had been a " little hasty." They had a daughter about Zell's age. It would be a little hard -if any one should treat her so. Zell had scarcely more than enough -to pay her way to New York. It seemed that people ought to stretch out their hands tc shield her, but they - only jostled her in their haste. As she stood, with bundle, in the ferry entrance on the New York side, undecided where to go, a man ran against her in his hurry: "Get out of the way," he said, irritably. She moved out one side into the darkness, and with a pallid face, said: "' Yes, it has come to this. I must ' get out of the- way' of all decent people. There is the river on one side. There are the streets on the other, Which shall it be?." "Oh! it was pitiful, Near a whole city full," that no hand was stretched to her aid. *    "2      WHAT CAN SHE DO? She shuddered. "I can't, I dare not die yet It mustlbe a little easier here than' there, where he is." Her face became like stone. She went straight to a liquor saloon, and drank deep of that spirit that Shakespeare called " devil," in o'rdr to drown thought, fear, memory-every vestige of t he woman. Then-the depths of the gulf that l]a ra shrank from with a dread stronger than her love of life. ,  .             .*   CHAPTER XXXII. EDITH BRINGS THE WANDERER HOME. \ /MRS. LACEY and Arden, at last, in the stress of their poverty, gave their consent that- Rose should go to the city, and try to find employ. ment in a store as a shop-girl. Mrs. Glibe, her dressmaking friend, went with her, and though they could obtain no situation the first day, one of Mrs. Glibe's acquaintances directed Rose where she could find a respectable boarding-house, from which, as her home, she could continue her inquiries. Leaving her there, Mrs. Glibe- returned. Rose, with a hope and courage not easily damp- ened, continued her search the'next, and for several days following. The fall trade had not fairly com- menced, and there seemed no demand for more help. She had thirty dollars with which to start life, but a week of idleness took seven of this. At last her fine appearance and sprightly man- ner induced a proprietor of a large establishment to -put her in the place of a girl discharged that day, with the wages of six dollars a week. "We give but three or four, as a general thing, to beginners," he said. Rose was grateful for the place, and yet almost dismayed at the prospect before her. How could 'A         -  -   - 444    -WHA T CAN SHE DOi  she live on six dollars? The bright-colored dreams of city life were fast melting away before the hard, and in some instances revolting, facts of- her experience. She could have obtained situations in two or three instances at better wages, if she had assented to conditions that sent her hastily into the street with burning blushes and indignant tears. She knew the great city was full lof wicked- ness, but 'this rude contact with it appalled her. After finding what she had to live on she ex- changed her somewhat comfortable room, where she could have a fire, for a cold, cheerless attic closet in the same house. "As I learn the business, they will give more," she thought, and the idea of going back home penniless, to be laughed at by Mrs. Glibe, Miss Klip, and others, was almost as bitter a prospect to her proud spirit as being a burden to her impoverished family, and she resolved to sub- mit to every hardship rather than do it. By taking the attic room she reduced her board to five dollars a week.                4 "You can't get it for less, unless you go to a very common sort of a place," said her landlady. "My house is respectable, and peoplelmust pay a little for that."  In view of this fact, Rose determined to stay, if possible, for she was realizing more every day how unsheltered and tempted she was. Her fresh blonde face, her breezy manner, and wind-shaken curls made-many turn to look after her :-the second time. Like some others of her sex,   EDITH BRINGS THE WANDERER HOME. 445 perhaps she had no dislike for admiration, but- in Rose's position it was often shown by looks, man- ner; and even words, that however she resented them, followed and persecuted her. As she grew to know her fellow-workers better, her heart sickened in disgust at the conversation and evident life of many of them, and they often laughed at her greenness immoderately. Alas! for the fancied superiority of these knowing girls. They laughed at Rose because she was so much more like what God meant a woman should be than they. A weak-minded, shallow girl would have succumbed to their ridicule, and soon have become like them, but high-spirited Rose only de- spised them, and gradually sought out and found some companionship-with those of the better sort in the large store. But there seemed so much hollow- ness and falsehood on every side that she hardly knew whom to trust. Poor Rose was quite sick of making a career for herself alone in the city, and her money was getting very low. Shop life was hard on clothes, and she was compelled by the rules of the store to dress well, and was only too fond of dress herself. So, instead of getting money a-head, she at last was down to her week's wages as support, and nothing was said of their being raised, and she was advised to say noth-. ing about any increase. Then shehad a week's sick- ness, and this brought her in debt to her landlady. Several times during her evening walks home Rose noticed a dark face and two vivid black eyes,   "6     WHA T CAN SHE DOI that seemed watching her; but as soon as ob served, the face va/hed. It haunted her with its suggestion of some one seen before. She went back to her work too soon after her ill' ness, and /had a relapse. Her respectable landlady was a woman of system and rules. From long expe- rience she foresaw that her poor lodger would grow only more and more deeply in her debt. Perhaps we can hardly blame her. It was by no easy effort that she made ends meet as it was. She had an ap. plication for Rose's little room from one who gave more prospect of being able to pay, so she quietly told the poor girl to vacate. Rose pleaded to stay, but the woman was inexorable, she had passed through such scenes so often that they had become only one of the disagreeable phases of her business. "Why, child," she said, " if I did not live up to my rule in this respect, I'd soon be out of house and home myself. You can leave your things here till you find some other place." So poor Rose, weak through her sickness, more weak through terror, found herself out in the streets of the great city, utterly penniless. She was so un- familiar with it that she did not kn ow where to go nor to whom to apply. It was her purpose to find a cheaper bdarding-house. She went down toward the meaner and poorer part of the city, and stopped at the low stoop of a house'where there was a sign; "Rooms to let." She wasp about to enter, when a hand was laid sharply on her arm, and some one said: .,   EDITH BRINGS THE WANDERER HOME. 447 "Don't go there. Come with me, quick!" "Who are you?" asked Rose, startled and tremo bling. "One who can help you now, whatever I anr ' was the answer. "6 I know you well, and all about you. You are Rose Lacey, an'd you did live in Pushton. Come with me, quick, and I will take you to a Christian lady whom you can trust. Come." Rose, in her trouble and perplexity, concluded to follow her. They soon made their way to quite a respectable street, and rang the bell at the door of a plain, comfortable-appearing house. A cheery, stout, middle-aged lady opened it She looked at Rose's new friend, and reproachfully shook her finger at her, saying, "Naughty Zell, why did you leave the Home?' "Because I am possessed by a restless devil," wax the strange answer. "Besides, I can do more good in the streets than there. I have just saved her," (pointing to Rose, who at once surmised that this was Zell Allen, though so changed she would not have known her). "Nbw," continued Zell, thrust- ing some money into Rose's hand, "take this and go home at once. Tell her, Mrs. Ranger, that this. city is no place for her." "If you have friends and a home to go to, it's the very best thing you can do," said the lady. "But my friends are poor," sobbed Rose. "\No matter, go to them," said Zell almost fierceR ly, "I tell you there is no place for you heie, unless   "8-     WHAT CAIV SHE DO? you wish to go to perdition. Go home, where you are known. ?d Scrub, delve, do anything rather than stay here. Your big brother can and will take care of you, though he does look so cross." "She is right, my child; you had better go at once," said the lady, decidedly. "Who are you?" asked Rose of the latter speaker, with some curiosity. ' I am a city missionary," answered the lady quietly, "and it is my business to help such poor girls as you are. I say to you from full knowledge, and in all sincerity, to go home is the very best thing that you can do." "But why is there not a chance for a poor, well- meaning girl to earn an honest living in this great city?" "Thousands are earning such a living, but there is not one chance in a hundred for you."' "Why?" asked Rose, hotly. ", Do you see all these houses? They are full of people," continued Mrs. Ranger, "and some of, them contain many families. In these families there are thousands of girls who have a home, a shelter, and protectors here in the city. They have society in relatives and neighbors. They have no board to pay, and fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters helping support them. They put all their earn- ings into a common fund, and it supports the family Such girls can afford, and will work for two, three, four, and five dollars a week. All that they earn makes the burden so much less oln the   EDI7TH BRINGS TIlE WANDERER HOME. 449 father, who otherwise would have supported them in idleness. Now, a homeless stranger in the city nmust pay board, and therefore they can't compete with those who live here. Wages are kept too low. Not one in a hundred, situated as you are, can earn enough to pay board and dress as they are re- quired to in the fashionable stores. Have you been able?" 4' No," groaned Rose. "I am in debt to my landlady now, and I had some money to start with." "There it is," said Mrs. Ranger, sadly, "the same old story." ' But these stores ought to pay more," said Rose, indignantly. "They will only pay for labor, as for everything else, the market price, and that averages but six dollars a week, and more are working for from three to five than for six. As I told you, there are thousands of girls living in the city glad to get a chance at any price." Rose gave a weary, discouraged sigh and said. ' I fear you are right, 1 must go home. Indeed, after what has happened I hardly dare stay. "Go," said Zell, " as if you were leaving Sodom, and don't look back." Then she asked with a wist. ful, hungry look, "Have you seen any of---'? She stopped, she could not tpeak the names of her kindred. "Yes," said Rose gently. (Yesterday she would have stood coldly aloof from Zell. To-day she wan   450     WHAT CA2N SH: D0? very grateful and full of sympathy.) "I know they are well. They were all sick after-after you went away. But they got well again, and dowering her voice) Edith prays for you night and day." Oh, oh, sobbed Zell," this is torment, this is to see the heaven I cannot enter," and she dashed away. "Poor child," said Mrs. Ranger, , there's an angel in her yet if I only knew how to bring it out. I may see her to-morrow, and I may not for weeks. Take the money she left with you, and here is some more. It may help her to think that she helped you. And now, my dear, let me see you safely o your way home."  That night the stage left Rose at the poor dilapi. dated little farm-house, and in her mother's close embrace she felt the blessedness of the home shel- ter, however poor, and the protecting love of kin- dred, however plain. "Arden is away," said the quiet woman of few words. ' He is home only twice a month. He has a job of cutting and carting wood a good way froa here. We are so poor this winter he had to take this chance. Yourfather is doing better. I hope for him, though with fear and trembling." Then Rose told her mother her experience and how she had been" saved by Zell, and the, poor woman clasped her daughter to her breast again and again, and with streaming eyes raised toward heaven, poured out her gratitude to God. "Rose," said she with a shudder, "if I had not I[   EDITH BRRINGS THE WANDERER HOME   45  prayed so for you night and day, perhaps you would not have found such friends in your time of need. Oh, let us both pray for that poor lost one, that she may be saved also." From this day forth Rose began to pray the true prayer of pity, and then the true prayer of a per- sonal faith. The rude, evil world had shown her her own and others' need, in -a way that made her feel that she wanted the Heavenly Father's care. In other respects she took up her life for a time where she had left it a few months before. Edith was deeply moved at Rose's story, and Zell's wild, wayward steps were followed by prayers, as by a throng of reclahning angels. "I would go andlbring her home in a moment, if I only knew where to find her," said Edith. "Mrs. Ranger said she would write as sogn as there was any chance of your doing so," said Rose.' About the middle of'January a letter came to Edith, as follows: "Miss Edith  Allen.--Your sister, Zell, is in Bellevue Hospital, ward . Come quickly; she is -very ill." Edith took the earliest train, and was soon follow. ing -in attendant, with eager steps, down the long ward. They camne to a dark-eyed girl that was evidently dying, and she closed her eyes with a chill of fear. A second glance showed that it was not Zell, and a little farther on she saw the face of her sister, but so changed. Oh, the havoc that sin and wretchedness had' made in that beautiful creature   452 -    WHAT CANM SHE DOP during a few short months! She was in a state of  unconscious muttering delirium, and Edith showered kisses on the poor, parched lips; her tears fell like rain on the thin, flushed face. Zell suddenly cried, with the girlish voice of old, "Hurrah, hurrah! books to the shades; no more teachers and tyrants for me."  She was living over the old life, with its old, fatal tendencies. Edith sat down, and sobbed as if her heart would break. Unnoticed, a stout, elderly lady was regard- ing her with eyes wet with sympathy. As Edith's grief subsided somewhat she laid her hand on the poor girl's shoulder, saying, "My child, I feel very sorry for you. For some reason I can't pass on and leave you alone in your sorrow, though we are total strangers. Your trouble gives you a sacred claim upon me. What can I do for you?" Edith looked up through her tears, and saw a kind', motherly face, with a halo of gray curls around it. With woman's intuition she trusted her instantly, and, with another rush of tears, said, "This is - my- poor - lost-sister. I've- just found her." "Ah!" said the lady significantly, ' God pity you both." ("Were it not-for Him," sobbed Edith. with her hand upon her aching heart, "I believe-I would die." The lady sat down by her, and took her; hand, ?                   - '    E ITH BRINGS THE W;ANDERER HO   . 453    . saying, "I will stay with you, dear, till you feel betGradually and delicately she drew from Edith her story, and her large heart yearned over the two girls in the sincerest sympathy. "I was not personally acquainted with your father and mother, but I know well who they' f were," she said. "And now, my child, you cannot remain here much longer; where are you going to stay?" ' I haven't thought," said Edith sadly. I have,"' replied the lady heartily, "I am going to take you home with me. We don't live very far away, and you can come and see your sister as often- as you choose, within the limits of the rules." Oh!" exclaimed Edith, deprecatingly, "I am not fit--I have no claim." "My child, said the lady gently, "don't you remember what our Master said, ' I was a stranger and ye took me in.' Is HHe not fit to enter my house? Has He no claim? In taking you home I am taking Him home,and so will be happy and horored in your presence. Moreover, my dear, frondwhat I have seen and heard, I am sure I shall love you for your own sake." Edith looked at her through grateful tears, and said, "It has seemed to me that Jesus has been comfortin g me all the time through your lips. flow beautiful Christianity is, when it is livedout. I will go to your house as if it were His." Then she turned and pressed a loving kiss on   454     EWHAT CAN SHE DO0 Zell's unconscious face, but her wonder was past words when the lady stooped down also, and kissed the "woman which was a sinner." She seized her hand with both of hers and faltered, "You don't despise and shrink from her, then?" "Despise her! no," said the noble woman. "I have never been tempted as this poor child has. -God does not despise her. What am I?" From that moment Edith could have kissed her feet, and feeling that God had sent his angel to take care of her, she followed the lady from the hospital. A plain but elegantly-liveried carriage was waiting, and they were driven rapidly to one of the stateliest palaces on Fifth Avenue. As they crossed the marble threshold, the lady turned and said, "Pardon me, my dear, my name is Mrs. Hart. This is your -Eome now as truly as mine while you are with us," and Edith was shown to a room re. plete with luxurious comfort, and told to rest till the six o'clock dinner. With some timidity and fear she came down to meet the others. As she entered she saw a portly man standing on the rug before the glowing grate, with a  shock of white hair, and a genial, kindly face. "' My husband," said Mrs., Hart, " this is our new friend, Miss Edith Allen. You knew her father well in business, I am sure." "Of course I  did," said the old gentleman, taking Edithll's hand in both of his, "and a fine business man he was, too  You .are welcome tc our home,   EDITs BRINGS THE WANDERER HOME. 455 Miss Edith. Look here, mother," he said, turning to his wife with a quizzical look, and still keeping hold of Edith's hand, "you didn't bring home an 'angel unawares' this time. I say, wife, you won't be jealous if I take a kiss now, will you--a sort of scriptural kiss, you knfow?" and he gave Edith a hearty smack that broke the ice between them com- pletely. With a face like a peony, Edith said, earnestly, "I am sure the real angels throng your home.. "Hope they do," said Mr. Hart, cheerily, "My old lady there is the best one I have seen yet, but I am ready for all the rest. Here comes some of them," he added, as his daughters entered, and to each one he gave a hearty kiss, counting, "one, two, three, four, five--now, ' all present or accounted for?'" "Yes," said his wife, laughing. "Dinner, then," and after the young ladies had s greeted Edith most cordially, he gave her his arm, as- if she had been a duchess, and escorted her to the dining-room. After being seated, they bowed their heads in quiet reverence, and the old man, with the voice and manner- of a child speaking to a father, thanked God for his mercies, and invoked .his blessing. Thetable-talk was genial and wholesome, with now and then a sparkle of wit, or a broad gleam of  humor.  "My good wife there, Miss Edith," said Mr. Hart, with a twinkle in his eye, " is a very sly old lady. *' -  r S -   450     WtAT CAN SEE DOI?         I If she does wear spectacles, she sees with great discrimination, or else the world is growing so full i of interesting saints and sinners, that I am quite in I fopes of it. Every day she has a new story about  sbrne very good person, or some very bad person becoming good. If you go on this way much longer, mother, the millennium will commence be- fore the Doctors of Divinity-are ready for it." 'A My dear," said Mrs. Hart, with a conlic aside to Edith, " my husband has never got over being a boy. When he will become old enough to sober down, I am sure I can't tell." "What have 1 to soubel hle, wi'll all these happy faces around, I wothd like to know?" was the hearty retort. "I 'a h ving a better time every day, and mean to go on so ad ziinitun. You're a good one to talk about sobering down, when you laugh more than any of these youngsters." Well, said his wife, her substantial form quiv. ering with merriment, " it's because you .make me." During the meal Edith had time to observe the young ladies more closely. They were fine-looking, and one or two of them really beautiful. Two of them were in early girlhood yet, and there was not a vestige of the vanity and affectation often seen in those of their position. They evidently had  . wide diversities of character, and faults, but there Was the simplicity and sincerity about them which  makes the difference between a chaste piece of marble and a painted block of wood. She saw  about her a house as rich and costly in its appoint-    EDITH BRINGS THE WANDERER HOME. 457 ments as her own old home had been, but it was not so crowded or pronounced in its furnish' ing and decoration. There were fewer pictures, but finer ones; and in all matters of art, French taste was not prominent, as had been the case in her home. The next day she sat by unconscious Zell as long as was permitted, and wrote fully to Laura. The dark-eyed girl that seemed dying the day before was gone. "Did she die?" she asked of an attendant. "Yes." "What did they do with her?" "Buried her in Potter's Field." Edith shuddered. "It would have been Zell's end," she thought, if I hadn't found her, and she had died here alone." That evening Mrs. Hart, as they all sat in her own private parlor, said to her daughters, "Girls, away with you. I can't move a step without stumbling over one of you. You are always crowding into my sanctum, as if there was not an inch of room for you anywhere else. Vanish. I wa tt tc talk to Edith." "It's. your own fault that we crowd in here, mother," said the eldest. "You are the loadstone that draws us." "I'll get a lot of stones to throw at you and drive you out with," said the old lady, with mock severity, The youngest daughter precipitated herself on her mother's neck, exclaiming, 20   45 8     WHAr T CAN SHEi DO  "WouIan't that be fun, to see jolly old mother throwing stones at us. She would wrap them in eider-down first." "Scamper; the whole bevy of you," said the old lady, laughing; and Edith, with a sigh, contrasted this " mother's room " with the one which she and her sisters shunned as the place where their " teeth were set on edge." "My dear," said Mrs. Hart, her face becoming grave and troubled, " there is one thing in my Christian work that discourages me. We reclaim so few of the poor girls that have gone astray. I understand, from Mrs. Ranger, that your sister was at the Home, but that she left it. How can we ac- complish more? We do everything we can for them.' "I don't think earthly remedies can meet their case," said Edith, in a low tone. "I agree with you," said Mrs. Hart, earnestly, "but we do give them religious instruction." "I don't think religious instruction is sufficient'," Edith answered. "They need a Saviour..' "But we do tell them about Jesus." "Not always in a way that they understand I fear," said Edith, sadly. "I have heard people tell about Him as they would about Socrates, of Moses, or Paul. We don't need facts about Him so much as Jesus Himself. In olden time people did not go to their sick and troubled friends and tell them that Jesus was in Capernaum, and that He was a gieat deliverer. They brought the poor, helpless crea.   EDITH BRzI GS THE WANDERER HOME. 459 tures right to Him. They laid      the      i feet of a personal Saviour, and He helped them.  Do we do this ? I have thought a great deal about   it," continued Edith, "and it seems to me that more associate the ideas of duty, restraint, and    ! almost impossible effort with Him,than the ideas of help and sympathy. It was so with me, I know, it   Perhaps you are right," said Mrs. Hart thought- fully. 'The poor creatures to whom  referred seem more afraid of God than anything else." "And yet, of all that ever lived, Jesus was the most tender toward them--the most ready to forgive and save. Believe me, Mrs. Hart, there was more gospel in the kiss you gave my siste-there was more oit- Jesus Christ in it, than in all the sermons ever writ- ten, and I am sure that if she had been conscious, it would have savedeher. They must, as it were, feel the hand of love and power that ifted Peter out of the engulfing waves. The idea of duty and sturdy self-restraint is perhaps to much emr. phasized, while they, poor things, are weak as water. They are so lost' that He must jus 'seek and savethem, as he said-lift        them up-keep them up almost in spite of themselves. Saved-that is the word, as the limp, helpless form is dragged out of danger.  On account of my sister I have thought a good deal about this subject, and there seems to me to be no remedy for this class, save in the merciful patient, personal Saviour. He had  "O      WHAT CAN SHE DO? and he would have the same now, if His people could make them understand Him." "I think few of us understand this personal Saviour ourselves as we ought," said Mrs. Hart, somewhat unvailing her own experience. "The Ro. mish Church puts the Virgin, Saints, penances, and I know not what, between the sinner and Jesus, and we put catechisms, doctrines, and a great mass of truth about them, between Him and us. I doubt whether many of us, like the beloved disciple, have leaned our heads on His heart of love, and felt its throbs. Too much of the time He seems in Heaven to me, nothere." "I never had much religious instruction," said Edith, simply. "I found Him in the New Testa- ment, as people of old found Him in Palestine, and I went to Him, just as I was, and He has been such a Friend and Helper. He lets me sit at His feet like Mary, and the words He spoke, seem said di- rectly to poor little me." Wistful tears came into Mrs. Hart's eyes, and she kissed Edith, saying  "I have been a Christian forty years, my child, but you are nearer to Him than I am. Stay close to His side. This talk has done more good than I imagined possible." "If I seem nearer," said Edith, gently, "' isn't it, perhaps, because I am weaker than you ate? 1 Eis 'sheep follow' him, but isn't there some place in the Bible about His ' carrying the lambs in His bosom '  I think we shall find at last that He was nearer to   EDITHBRINGS THE WANDEERER HOME. 4641 US all than we thought, and th'at His arm of love was around us all the time." In a sudden, strong impulse, Mrs. Hart embraced Edith, and, looking upward, exclaimed: Truly ' Thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes.' As my husband said, I am entertaining a good angel." The physician gave Edith great encouragement about Zell, andtold her that in about two weeks he thought she might be moved. The fever was taking a light form.  One evening, after listening to some superb music from Annie, the second daughter, between whom and Edith quite an affinity seemed to develop itself, the latter said:  "How finely you play. I think you are wonder. ful for an amateur."  "I am not an amateur," replied Annie, Iaughing. ' I am not an amateur,  ", Music is my profession." "I don't understand," said Edith. "Father has made me study music as a sci- Here is a portfolio of her sketches. Even Edith's unskilled eyes could see that she had made great; proficiency.. '. Ella could teach drawing and coloring at once continued Annie, " for she has studied the rules and principle (vrls carefully,and gito have a profession. atteti   "2     W   'A W 4'CAN SHE DO? to the rudiments of art, instead of having a teacher help her paint a few show pictures. But I k!now very little about it, for I haven't much taste that way. Father has us educated according to our tastes ; that is, if we show a little talent for any one thing, he has us try to perfect ourselves in that one thing. Julia is the linguist, and can jabber Frenc1h and German like a native. Father also insisted-on our being taught the common English branches very thoroughly, and he says he could get us situations to teach within a month, if it were necessary." Edith sighed deeply as she thought how superfi- cial their education had been, but she said rather slyly to Annie, ' But you are engaged. I think your husband will veto the music-teaching." "Oh, well;" said Annie, laughing, , Walte* may fail, or get sick, or something may happen. So you see we wouldn't have to go to the poor-house. Besides,there's a sort of satisfaction in knowing one thing pretty well. But the half is not told you, and I suppose you will think father and mother queer people; indeed most of our friends do. For mother has had a milliner come to the house, and a dressmaker, and a hair-dresser, and whatever we have any knack at she has made us learn well, some one thing, and some another. Wouldn't 1 like to dress your long hair," continued the light- hearted girl, "I  would make you so bewitching that you would break a dozen hearts in one evening Then mother has taught us how to cook, and to make bread and cake and preserves, and Ella and I   EbzDTH BRINGS THE WANDERER HOME. 463 have to take turns in keeping house, and marketing, and keeping account of the living expenses. The ftrt of the girls are at school yet. Mother says she is not going to palm off any frauds in her daughters when they get married; and if we only turn" out half as good as she is, our husbands will be lucky men, if I do say it; and if all of us don't get any, we can take care of ourselves. Father has been holding you up as an example of what a girl can do, if she has to make her own way in the world." And 'the sprightly, but sensible, girl would have rattled on indefinitely, had not Edith fled to her room in an uncontrollable rush of sorrow over the sad, sad, a It might have been."  One afternoon Annie came into Edith's room, saying, "I am going to dress your hair-Yes I will-- now don't say a word, I want to. We expect two or three friends in--one you'll be glad to see. No, I won't tell you who it is. It's a surprise." And she flew'at Edith's head, pulled out the hair-pins, and went to work with a dexterity and rapidity that did credit to her training. In a-little while she had crowned Edith with nature's most exquisite coronet. A cloud of care seemed to rest on Mr. Hart's brow as they entered the dining-room, but he ban. ished it instantly, and with the quaint stately gal- lantry of the old school, pretended to be deeply smitten with Edith's loveliness. And so lovely she appeared that their eyes continually returned, and rested admiringly on her, till at last the blushing girl remonstrated,    "4     V/HA T CAN. SHE DO?   "- 4 You all keep looking at me so that I feel as if I were the dessert, and you were going to eat me up l pretty soon." "I speak for the biggest bite," cried Mr. Hart; and they laughed at her and petted her so that she said: "I feel as if I had known you all ten years." But ever and anon, Edith saw traces of the cloud of care that she had noticed at first. And so did Mrs. Hart, for she said: "You have been a little anxious about business lately. Ismthere anything new?" "No," said Mr. Hart, who, in contrast to Mr. Allen, talked business to his family, "things are only growing a little worse. There have been one or two bad failures to-day. The worst of it all is, there seems a general lack of confidence. No one knows what is going to happen. One feels as if inll a thunder-shower. The lightning may strike him, and it may fall somewhere else., But don't worry, good mother, I am as safe as a man can be. I have a  round million in my safe ready for an emer- gency." The wife knew just where her husband stood that night. At nine o'clock, Edith was talking earnestly with Mrs. Ranger, whom she had expressed a wish to see. There were a  few other pebple present cf the very highest social standing, and intimate friends of the family, for her kind entertainers would hot exa- pose her to any strange and unsympathetic eyes    EDI2TH BR/NGS-THEr WANDERER HOME. 465 Annie was flitting about, the very spirit of innocent mischief and match-making, gloating over the pleas. ure she expected to give Edith. The bell rang, and a moment later she marshalled In Gus Elliott, as handsome and exquisitely dressed as ever. He was as much in the dark as to whom he should gee as Edith. Some one had told Annie of his former devotedness to- Edith, and so she in- nocently meant to do both a kindness. Having a slight acquaintance with Elliott, as a general society man, she Invited him this evening to "' meet an old friend." He gladly accepted, feeling- it a great honor to visit at the Hart's. He saw Edith a moment before she observed him, and had time to note her exquisite beauty. But he turned p'ale with fear and anxiety in regard to his reception. Then she raised her eyes and saw him. The blood rushed in a hot torrent to her face, and then left it in extreme pallor. Gus advanced with all the ease and grace that he could command under the circumstances, and held out his hand. "She can- not refer to the past here before them all," he thought. But- Edith rose slowly, and fixed her large eyes, that glowed like coals of fire, sternly upon him, and put her hand behind her back. All held their breath in awe-struck expectation. She seemed to see only him and the past, and to forget all the rest. "No sir," she said, in a low, deep voice, that  "6     WARTCAN SE DOf curdled Gus s blood, "I cannot take your hand. i might in pity, if yoa were in the depths of poverty and trouble, as I have been, but not here and thus. Do you know where my sister is?" "No" faltered Gus, his knees trembling under him. "She is in Bellevue Hospital. A poor girl was carried from thence to Potter's Field a day or two since. She might have been if I had not found her. And," continued Edith, with her face darken. ing like night, and her tone deepening till it sent a thrill of dread to the hearts of all present, "in Potter's Field I might nowr have been if I had lis- tened to you." Gus trembled: before her in a way that plainly confirmed her words. With a grand dignity she turned to Mrs. Hart, saying, "Please excuse my absence; I cannot breathe the same air with him," and she was about to sweep from the parlor like an incensed goddess, when Mr. Hart sprang up, his eyes blazing with anger, and putting his arm around Edith, said sternly : "I would shield this dear girl as my own daugh. ter. Leave this house, and never cross my threshold again." Gus slunk away without a word. As the guilty will be at last, he was " speechless." So, in a mo - ment, when least expecting it, he fell froim his  heaven, which was society: for the news of his baseness spread like wildfire, and within a week every respectable door was closed against him.   EDITH BRINGS THE IWANDERER HOME. 467 Is it cynical to say that the well-known and wide. ly-honored Mr. Hart, in closing his door, had influ. ence as well as Gus's sin, in leading some to close their's? Motives in society are a little mixed, sometimes. Mr Hart went down town the next morning, a little anxious, it is true, on general principles, but not in the least apprehensive of any disaster. "I may have to pay out a few hundred thousand," he thought, " but that won't trouble me." But the bolt of financial suspicion was directed toward him; how, he could not tell. Within half an hour after opening, checks for twelve hundred thousand were presented at his counter. He tele- graphed to his wife, "A run upon me." Later, "Danger!" Then came the words to the up-town palace, "Have suspended!"  In the afternoon, "The storm will sweep me bare, but courage, God, and our right hands, will make a place and a way for us." The business community sympathized deeply with Mr. Hart. \ Hard, cool men of Wall street came in, and, with eyes moist with sympathy, wrung his hand. He stood up through the wild tumult, calm, dignified, heroic, because conscious of rectitude. "The shrinkage in securities will be great, I fear," he said, " but I think my assets will cover all liabili. ties. We will give up everything." When he came up home in the evening, he looked worn, and much older than in the morning, but hi- wife and daughters seemed to envelop him in ad -   "8      WH AT CAN SHE DO! atmosphere of love and sympathy. They were s, strong, cheerful, hopeful, that they infused their courage into him. Annie ran to the piano, and played as if inspired, saying to her father'  "Let every note tell you that we can take care OI ourselves, and you and mother too, if necessary." The words were prophetic. The strain had been too great on Mr. Hart. That night he had a stroke of paralysis and became helpless. But he had trained his daughters to be the very reverse of help- -less, and they did take care of him with the most devoted love and skilled practical energy, making the weak, brief remnant of his life not a burden, but a peaceful evening after a glorious day. . They all, except the youngest, soon found employment, for they brought superior skill and knowledge to the labor market, and such are ever in demand. Annie soon married happily, and her younger sisters event- uallyfollowed herexample. But Ella, the eldest, re- mained single;. and, though she never became emi- nent as an artist, did become a very useful and respected teacher of art, as studied in our schools as a refining accomplishment. To return to Edith, she felt for her kind friends almost as much as if she were one of the family. Do not feelthat you must go away because cf what has happened," said Mrs. Hart. "I am glad to have you with us, for you do us all good. Indeed, you seem one of' us. Stay as long as you can, dear, and God help us both to bear our burdens." "Dear, 'heavy-laden' Mrs. Hart," said Edith. * t.   EDITH BRINGS TE WANDERERER HOME. 469 - Jesus will bear the burdens for us, if we- will let - Htim."  "' Bless you, child, I am sure He sent you to me.' As Edith entered the ward that day, the attend- ailt said, "She's herself, Miss, at last." Edith stole noiselessly to Zel!'s cot. She was sleep- ' ing. Edith sat down silently and watched for her waking. At last she opened her eyes and glanced fearfully around. Then she saw Edith, and instant- ly shrank and cowered as if expecting a blow. "Zell,"'said Edith, taking the poor, thin hand, "O Zell, don't you know me?" "What are you going to do with me?"asked Zell, in a voice full of dread. "Take you to my home--take you to my heart -take you deeper intolmy'love than ever before." "Edith," said Zell, almost cowering before her words as if they hurt her, "I am -not fit to go home." "O Zell, darling," said Edith, tenderly, "God's love does not keep a debit and credit account With us, neither should we with. each other. Can't you see that I love you-?" and she showered kisses on her sister's now pallid face. But Zelil acted as if they were a source of pain to her, and she muttered, "You don't know, you can't know. Don't speak-of God to me, I fear Him unspeakably." "I do know all," said Edith, earnestly, " and I love you more fondly than ever I did before, and God knows and loves you more still."   470     [HA T CAN SyHE DOt "I tell you you don't know," said Zell, almost fiercely. "You can't know. If you did, you would spit on me and leave me for ever. God knows, and he has doomed me to hell, Edith," she added, inl a hoarse whisper. "I killed himn--you know whom. And I promised that after I got old and ugly I would come and torment him for ever. I must keep my promise." Edith wept bitterly. This was worse than deli- rium. She saw that her sister's nature was so bruised and perverted, so warped that it almost amounted to insanity. She slowly rallied back into physical strength, but her hectic cheek and slight cough indicated the commencement of consump- tion. Her mind remained in the same unnatural condition, and she kept saying to Edith, "You don't know anything about it all. You can't know." She would not see Mrs. Hart, and agreed to go home with Edith only on condition that no one should see or speak with her outside .tle family. At last the day of departure came. Mrs. Hart said : "You shall take her to the depot in my car riage. It will be among its last and best uses." Edith kissed her kind friend good-bye, saying, "God will send his chariot for you some day, aitld though you must leave this, your beautiful home, if you could only have a glimpse into the Mansion preparing for you up there, anticipation would almost banish all thoughts of present loss," "Well, dear," said Mrs. Hart, with a gleam of   EDIT ff BRINVGS THE WANDERER HOME. 471 her old humor, "I hope your ' Mansion' will be ilext door, for I shall want to see you often through all eternity." Then Edith knelt before Mr. Hart's chair, and the old man's helpless hands were lifted upon her head, and he looked to heaven for the blessing he could not speak.       '* "Our ways diverge now, but they will all meet again. Home is near to you," she whispered in his ear as she kissed him good-bye. The old glad light shone in his eyes, the old cheery smile flitted across his lips, and thus she left him who had been the great, rich banker, serene, happy, and rich in a faith that could not be lost in any financial storm, or destroyed by disease, or en- feebled by age, she left him waiting as a little c:hild to go home a  ,   CHAPTER XXXIII. I'DITH'S GREAT TEMPTATION. HOUGH even Mrs. Allen was tearful and kind in her greeting, and Laura warm and affection- ate in the extreme, old Hannibal's welcome, so frank, genuine, and innocent, seemed to soften Zell more than any one's else. "You poor, heavenly-minded old fool," she said, with an unwonted tear in her eye, " you don't know any better." Then she seemed to settle down into a dreamy apathy; to sit moping around in shadowy places. She had a horror of meeting a/ny one, even Mrs. Lacey, and Rose, and would not go out till after night. Edith saw,more and more clearly, that she was almost insane in her shame and despair, and that she would be a terrible burden to them all if she remained in such a condition ; but her love and patience did not fail. It would, had it not been daily fed from heavenly sources. "I must try, to show her Jesus' 'love through mine," she thought. Poor Edith, the great temptation of her life was soon to assail her. It was aimed at her weakest yet noblest side, her young enthusiasm and spirit of self-sacrifice for others. And yet, it was but the natural fruit of woman's helplessness and Mrs. * I ,    EDITH'S GREAT TEMPTATION.    473 Allen's policy of marrying one's way out of poverty and difficulty. Simon Crowl had ostensibly made a very fair transaction with Edith, but Simon Crowl was a widower at the time, and on the lookout for a wife. He was a pretty sharp business-man, Crowl was, or he wouldn't have become so rich in little Pushton, and he at once was satisfied that Edith, so beautiful, so sensible, would answer. Through the mortgage he might capture her, as it were, for even his vanity did not promise him much success in the ordinary ways of love-making. So the spider spun his web, and unconscious Edith was the poor little tfly. During the summer he watched her closely, but from a distance. During the autumn and winter he com- menced calling, ostensibly on Mrs. Allen, whom he at once managed to impress with the fact that he was very rich. Though he brushed up his best coat and manners, that delicate-nosed lady scented an air and manner very different from what she had been accustomed to, but she was half-dead with ennui, and, after all, there was something akin be- tween worldly Mrs. Allen and worldly Mr. Crowl. Then, he wacs very -rich. This had covered a multi- tude of sins on the Avenue. But, in the miserable poverty of Pushton, it ,was a golden mantle of light. Mrs. Allen chafed at privation and want of delica- cies, with the increasing persistency of an utterly weak and selfish nature. She had no faith in Edith's plans, and no faith in woman's working, and the garden seemed the wildest dream of all. Her hard, t   -474 W-HAT CAN SHE DO} narrow logic, constantly dinned into her ears, dis- couraged Edith, and she began to doubt herself. Mr. Crowl (timid lover) had in Edith's absence confirmed his previous hints, thrown out to Mrs. Allen as feelers, by making a definite proposition. In brief, he had offered to settle twenty-five thou- sand dollars on Edith the day she married him, and to take care of the rest of the family. "I have made enough," he said majestically, "to live the rest of my life like a gentleman, and this offer is princely, if I say it myself. You can all ride in your carriage again." Then he added, with his little black eyes growing hard and cunning, "If your daughter won't accept my generosity, our relationship becomes merely one of business. Of course I will foreclose. Money xs scarce here, and I will probably be able to buy in the place at half its worth. Seems to me," he concluded, looking at the case from his valuation of money, " there is not much room for choice here." And Mr. Crowl had been princely--for him. Mrs. Allen thought so too, and lent herself to the scheme with all the persistent energy that she could show in these matters. But, to do her justice, she really thought she was doing what was best for Edith and them. all. She was acting in accord- ance with her life-long principle of providing for her family, in the one 'way she believed in and understood. But sincerity and singleness of pur- pose made her all the more dangerous a tempter. In one of Edith's most discouraged moods she !   EDzITrS GREA T TE'MP TA TION.  475  broached the subject and explained Mr. Crowl's offer, for he, prudent man, had left it to her. Edith started violently, and the whole thing was so revolting to her that she fled from the room. But Mrs. Allen, with her small pertinacity, kept re- curring to it at every opportunity. Though it may seem a little stra+nge, her mother's action did not so shockEdith as some might expect; nordid the propo- sition even seem so impossible as it might to some girls. Sle had been accustomed, through her mother, to the idea of marrying for money all her life, and we can get used to about everything. In March their money was very low. Going to Zell and taking care of her had involved much additional expense. She found out that her mother had already accepted and used in part a loan of fifty dollars from Mr. Crowl. Laura, from the long confinement of the winter, and from living on fare too coarse and lacking in nutrition for her delicate organization, was growing very feeble. Zell seemed in the first stages of consumption, and would soon be a sick, helpless burden. The chill of dread grew stronger at Edith's heart. "Oh, can it be possible that I shah be driven to it!" she often groaned; and she now saw, as poor Laura said, " the black hand in the dark pushing her down." To her surprise her thoughts kept re. verting to Arden Lacey. "What will he think of me if I do this?" she thought, with intense bitterness. "He will tell m-d I was not worthy of his friendship, much less of Ilis *  o *    476     CWHA T CAN SHE DoS love--that I deceived him;" and the thought ol Arden, after all, perhaps, had the most weight in restraining her from the fatal step. For then, to her perverted sense of duty, this marriage began to seem like a heroic self-sacrifice. She had seen little of Arden since her return. He was kind and respectful as ever, outwardly, but she saw in his deep blue eyes that she was the divinity that he still worshipped with unfaltering devotion, and as she once smiled at the idea of be- ing-set up as an idol in his heart, she now began to dread falling from her pedestal unspeakably. One dreary day, -the last of March, when sleet and rain were pouring steadily down, and Laura was sick in her bed, and Zell moping with her hacking cough over the fire, with Hannibal in the kitchen, 'Mrs. Allen turned suddenly to Edith, and said: "On some such day we will all be turned into the street. You could save us, you could save yourself, by taking a kind, rich man for your lawful husband; but you won't." Then Satan, who is always on hand when we are weakest, quoted Scripture to Edith as he did once before. The words flashed into her mind, *' He saved others, himself he cannot' save." In'a wild, mingled moment of enthusiasm and desperation, she sprang up before her mother, and said, "If I can't pay the interest of the mortgage-- if I can't take care of you all by some kind of work, I will marry him But if you have a spark of love   EDITffS GREA TEMPT. TZON.    47 for me, -save, economize, try to think of some other way." Mrs. Allen smiled triumphantly, and tried in her gratitude to embrace her daughter, saying, "A kind: husband will soon lift all burdens off your shoul- ders." The burden on the heart Mrs. All-en did not understand, but Edith fled from her to her own room. In'a little while her excitement and enthusiasm died away, and life began to look gaunt and bare. Even her Saviour's face seemed hidden, and she only saw an ugly spectre in the future-Simon Crowl. In vain she repeated to herself, "He sacrificed Himself for others-so will I." The nature that He had given her revolted at it all, and though she could not understand it, she began to find a jarring discord between herself and all things. Mrs. Allen told Mr. Crowl of her success, and he looked upon things as settled. He came to the house quite often, but did not stay long or assume any familiarity with'. Edith. He was a wary old spider; and under Mrs. Allen's hints, behaved and looked very respectably. He certainly did the best he could not to appear-hideous, to Edith, and though she -was very cold, she compelled herself to treat him civilly. Perhaps many might have considered Edith's chance a very good one; but with an almost des- perate energy she-set her mind at work to find some other way out of her painful straits. Everything, ^   478     WHAT CAN SHE DO? however, seemed against her. Mr. McTrump was sick with inflammatory rheumatism. Mrs. Groody was away, and would not be back till the last of May. On account of Arden she could not speak to Mrs. Lar cey. She tried in vain to get work, but at that seasoft there was nothing in Bushton which she could do. Farmers were beginning to get outa little on their wet lands, and various out-of-door activities to re, Wrive after the winter stagnation. Moreover, money was very scarce at that season of the year. She at last turned to the garden as her only resource. She realized that she had scarcely money enough to carry them through May. Could .^he get returns from her garden in time? Could it be made to yield enough to support them? With ain almost desperate energy she worked in it whenever the weather per- mitted through April, and kept I'a-nibal at it also. Indeed, she had little mercy on the old man, and he wondered at her. One day he ventured: "Miss Edie, you jes done kill us both," but his wonder increased as she muttered; "Perhaps it would be the best thing fox us both." Then, seeing his panic-stricken face, she a,lded more kindly, "Hannibal, our money is getting low. and the garden is our only chance." After that he worked patiently without a word and without a thought of sparing himself. Edith insisted on the closest economy in the house, though she was too sensible to stint herself in food in view of her constant toil. But one day she detected Mrs. Alien with her small cunni3ng and   EDITH'S GREAT TEMPTATION.     479 determination to carry her point, practising a little wastefulness. Edith turned on her with such fierce- ness that she never dared repeat the act. Indeed, Edith was becoming very much -what she was before Zell ran away, only in addition there was something akin, at times, to Zell's own hardness and reckless- ness, and one day she said to Edith: "What is the matter? You are' becoming like me." Edith fled to her room, and sobbed and cried and tried to pray till her strength was gone. The sweet trust and peace she once enjoyed seemed like a past dream. She was learning by bitter experience that it can never be right to do wrong; and that a first false step, like a false premise, leads to sad conclusions. She had insisted that her mother should not speak of the matter til it became absolutely neces- sary, therefore Laura, Zell, and none of her friends could understand her. Arden was the most puzzled and pained oA' all, for she shrank from him with increasing dread. He was now back at his farm work, though he said to Edith one day despondently that he had no heart to work, for the mortgage on their place would prob- ably be foreclosed in the Fall. She longed to tell him how she was situated, but she saw he was ul- able to help her, and she dreaded to see the scorn come into his trusting, loving eyes; ;she could not endure his absolute confidence in her, and in his presence her heart ached as if it would break, so   480      WHAT CA.4N SHE DOI she shunned him till -he grew very unhappy, and -sighed:  "There's something wrong. She finds I am- not  congenial. I shall lose her friendship't and hisach- inag heart also admitted, as never before, how dear it was to him. Nature was awakening with the rapture of another Spring; birds were coming back to old haunts with ecstatic songs; flowers budding into their brief but exquisite life, and the trees aglow with fragrant prophecies of fruit; but a Winter of fear and doubt was chilling these two hearts into something far worse than Nature's seeming death. x   CHAPTER XXXIV. SAVED. DITr  H'S efforts still to help Zell to better E things were very pathetic, considering how un- happy and tempted she was herself. She did try, even when her own heart was breaking, to bring peace and hope to the poor creature, but she was {aught how vain her efforts were, in her present mood, by Zell's saying, sharply, , Physician, heal thyself." i -Though Zell did not understand Edith, she saw that she was almost as unhappy as herself, and she had lost hope in everybody and everything. Though she had not admitted it, Edith's words and kind- ness at first had excited her wonder, and, perhaps, a faint glimmer of hope; but, as she saw her sister's face cloud with care, and darken with pain and fear, she said, bitterly, "Why did she talk with me so? It was all a delusion. What is God doing for her any more than for me?" But, in order to give Zell occupation, and some- thing to think about beside herself, Edith had in- duced her to take charge of the flowers in the garden.   -A-d-    trl v, 4 cI 1' SHE IDO! " They won't grow for me," Zell had said at first. ' They will wither when I look at them, and white blossoms will turn black as I bend over them." "Nonsense.!" said Edith, with irritation; "Won't you do anythingto help me ?" Oh, certainly," wearily answered Zell. "I will dothe work just as you tell me. If they do die, it don't matter. We can't eat or sell them." So Zell began to take care of the flowers, doing the work in a stealthy manner, and hiding when anyone came, The month of May was unusually    warm, and( Edith was glad, for it would hasten things forward. That upon which she now bent almost agonized effort and thought was the possibility of paying the interest on the mortgage by the  middle of June, when it was due. All hope concentrated  on her strawberries, as they would be the first rop worth mentioning that she could depend on from her place. She gave the plants the most careful attention. Not a weed was suffered to grow, and between the rows she placed carefully, with her own hands, leaves she raked up in the orchard, so that the ground mighl be kept moist and the fruitclean.  Almost every hour of the day her eyes sought the strawberry bed, as the source of her hope. If   that failed her, no bleeding luman sacrifice in all the cruel past could surpass the agony of her fate. The vines commenced blossoming with great promise, and" at first she almost  counted them int her eager expectation. Then the long rows looked like little banks of snow, and she exulted over the   it J prospect. Laura was once about to pick one of the blossoms, but she stopped her almost fiercely. She would get up in the night, and stand gazing at the lines of white, as she could trace them in the dark- ness across the garden. So the days passed on till the last of May, and the blossoms grew scattering, but there were multitudes of little green berries, from the size of a pea to that of her thimble, and some of them began to have a white look. She watched them develop so minutely that she could have almost defined the progress day by day. Once Zeil looked at her wonderingly, and said: "Edith, you are crazy over that strawherry bed. I believe you worship it." For a time Edith's hopes daily rose higher as the vines gave finer promise, but during the last week of May a new and terrible source of danger revealed itself, a danger that she knew not how to cope with-drought. It had not rained since the middle of May. She saw that many of her young and tender vegetables were wilting, but the strawherries, mulched with leaves, did not appear to mind it at first. Still she knew they would suffer soon, unless there was rain. Most anxiously she watched the skies., Their sereneness mocked her when she was so clouded with care. Wild storms would be better than these balmy, sunny days. , The first of June came, the second, third, and fourth, and here and there a berry was turning red, but the vines were beginning to wilt. The suspense   404      vAI / CA:frV SHE -DO? became so great she could hardly endure it. 'Het faith in God began to waver. Every breath almost was a prayer for rain, but the sunny days passed like mocking smiles. "Is there a God?" she queried desperately. "Can I have been deceived in all my past happy experience?"She shuddered at the answer that the tempter suggested, and yet, like a diowning man, she tried to cling to her faith. During the long evenings, she anl Hannibal sought to save the bed by carrying water from the well, but they could do so little, it only seemed to show them how utterly dependent they were on the natural rain, from heaven ; but the skies seemed laughing at her pain and fear. Moreover, she noticed that those they watered appeared injured rather than helped, as is ever the case where it is insuffi- ciently done, and she saw that she must helplessly wait. Arden Lacey had been away for a week, and, returning in the dusk of the evening, saw her at work watering, before she had come to this conclu. sion. His heart was hungry, even for the sight of her, and he longed for her 'to let him stop for a little chat as of old. So he said, timidly, "Good evening, Miss Alien, haven't you a word  :o welcome me back with?" "Oh!" cried Edith, not' heeding his salutation, 'why don't it rain! I  shall lose all my straws terries." His voice jarred upon her Iheart, now too full. ande.   SA VED.        485 she ran into the house to hide her feelings, and left him. Even the thought of him now, in her morbid state, began to pierce her like a sword. * She thinks more of her paltry strawherry bed than of me," muttered Arden, and he stalked angrily homeward. "What is the matter with Miss Allen?" he asked his mother abruptly. "I don't understand her."  ! , "Nor I either," said Mrs. Lacey with a sigh.  The next morning was very warm, and Edith saw that the day would be hotter than any that pre- ceded. A dry wind sprang up and it seemed worse than the sun. The vines began to wither early after the coolness of the night, and those she had watered suffered the most, and seemed to say to her mockingly, "You can't do anything." "O heaven" .cried Edith, almost in despa ir, "there is a black hand pushing me down." In an excited, feverish manner she roamed re ;t- lessly around and could settle down to nothing. She scanned the horizon for a cloud, as the ship- wrecked might for a sail. "Edie, what is the matter-?" said Laura, puttil g her arms about her sister. "It won't rain," said Edith, bursting into tears. "' My home, my happiness, everything depends on rain, and look at these skies." "But don't He send it?" asked Laura, gently. "Why don't He, then?" said Edith, almost in irritation. Then, in a sudden passion of grief, she   486     WHA T CAN SHE DOI hid her face in her sisters lap, and sobbed, "Oh! Laura, Laura, I feel I am losing my faith in Him. Why does He treat me so?" Here Laura's face grew troubled and fearful also. Her faith in Christ was so blended with her faith in Edith that she could not separate them in a moment.  "I don't understand it, Edie," she faltered. "He seems to have taken care of me, and has been very kind since that-that night. But I don't understand your feeling so." "Oh, oh, oh!" sobbed Edith, "I don't know what to think-what to believe; and I fear I shall hurt your faith," and she shut herself up in her room, and looked despairingly out to where the vines were drooping in the fierce heat. "If they don't get help to-day, my hopes  will wither like their leaves," she said, with pallid lips. As the sun declined in the west, she went out -and stood beside them, as one might by a dying friend. Her fresh young face seemed almost grow- ing aged and wrinkled under the ordeal. She had prayed that afternoon, as never before in her life, for help, and now, with a despairing gesture up. ward, she said: "Look at that brazen sky!" But the noise of the opening gate caused her to look thither, and there was Arden entering, with a great barrel on wheels, which was drawn by -a horse. His heart, so weak toward her, had relented during the day. "I vowed to serve her, and I        v   5A YVED.       487 will," he thought. "I will be her slave, if she will permit." Edith did not unfderstand at first, and he canme 'oward her so humbly, as if to ask a great favor, that it would have been comic, had not his sincerity made it pathetic. "' Miss Allen," he said, "'I saw you trying to water your berries. Perhaps I can do it better,as I have here the means of working on a larger scale." Edith seized his hand and said, with tears: "You are like an angel of light; how can I thank you enough?" Her manner puzzled him to-night quite as much as on the previous occasion. "Why does she act as if her life depended on these few berries?" he vainly asked himself. "They can't be so poor as to be in utter want. I wish she would speak frankly to me." In her case, as in thousands of others, it would have been so much better if she had. Then TEdith said, a little dubiously, "I hurt the vines when I tried to water them." "I know enough about gardening to understand that," said Arden, with a smile. "If the ground is not thoroughly soaked it does hurt them. But see," and he poured the water around the vines till the dry leaves swam in it. "That will last two dlays, and then I will water these again. I can go over half the bed thoroughly one night, and the other half' the next night; and so we will keep them along till rain comes."   488     WHAT CAN SEE DO? She looked at him as if he were a messenger come to release her froln a dungeon, and murmured, in. a low, sweet voice: "Mr, Lacey, you are as kind as a brothel .to me.' A warm flush of pleasure mantled his face and neck, and he turned away to hide his feelings, but said:  "Miss Edith, this is nothing to what I would do for you." She had it on her lips to tell him how she was situated, but he hastened away to fill his barrel at a neighboring pond. She watched him go to and fro in his rough, working garb, and he seemed to her the very flower of chivalry. Her eyes grew lustrous with admiration, gratitude, hope, and-yes, love, for before the June twilight deepened into night it was revealed in the depths of her heart that she loved Arden Lacey, and that was the reason that she had kept away from him since she had made the hateful promise. 'She had thought it only friendship, now she knew that it was love, and that his scorn and anger would be the bitterest ingredient of all in her self-immo- lation. For two long hours he went to and fro unwearied. ly, and then startled her by saying in the distance on his way home, "I will come again to-morrow evening," and was gone. He was afraid of himself, lest in his strong feeling he might break his implied promise not even to suggest his love, when she   SA VED.        489 came to thank him, and so, in self-distrustfulness, he was beginning to shun her also. An unspeakable burden of fear was lifted from her heart, and hope, sweet, warm, and rosy, kept her eyes waking, but rested her more than sleep. In the morning she saw that the watering had greatly revived one half of the bed, and that all through the hot day they did not wilt, while the unwatered part looked very sick. Old Crowl also had seen the proceeding in the June twilight, and did not like it. "I must put a spoke in his wheel," he said. So the next afternoon he met Arden in the village, and blustered up to him, saying; "Look here, young Lacey, what were you doing at the Allens' last night?" "None of your business." "Yes, it is my business, too, as you may find out to your cost. I am engaged to marry Miss Edith Allen, and guess it's my business who's hanging around there. I warn you to keep away." Mr. Crowl had put the case truly, and yet with charac- teristic cunning. He was positively engaged to Edith, though she was only conditionally engaged to him. "It's an accursed lie," thundered Arden, livid with rage, " and I warn you to leave-you make me dangerous." "Oh, ho; touches you close, does it? I am sorry for you, but it's true, nevertheless." Arden looked as if he would rend him, but, by a  X   "O     WHAT CAV SIE- Do? great effort he controlled himself, and in a low meaning voice said, If you have lied to me this afternoon, woe be unto you," and he turned (In his heel and walked stra ht to Edith, where she stood at work among her grape-vines, breaking off some of the too thickly budding branches. He was beside her before bhe heard him, and the moment she looked into his white. stern face, she saw that something had happened gha "Miss Allen, he said, abruptly, "I heard a re- port about you this afternoon. I did not believeit: I could not; but it came so direct, that I give you a-chance to refute it, Your word will be sufficient forme. It would bqainst all the world. Is there anything between you'ahd Simon Crowl?" Her confusion was painful, and for a moment she could not speak, but stood trembling before him. In his passion, he seized her roughly by the arm and said, hoarsely, "In a word, yes or no?" His manner offended her proud spirit, and she looked him angrily in the face and said, haughtily He recoiled from her as if he had been stung Her anger died away in a moment, and she leaned against the grape-trellis for sullpport. ! "Do you love him?"Ire faltered, his bronzed' cheek blanching. "No,' she gasped. The blood rushed furiously into his face, and he took an angry stride towards her. She cowered   SA YVED.       491 before him, but almost wished that he would strike her dead. In a voice hoarse with rage, he said, ' This, then, is the end of our friendship. This is the best that your religion has taught you. If not your pitiful faith, then has not your woman's nature told you that neither priest nor book can marry you to that coarse lump of earth?" and he turned on his heel and strode away. ITis mother was frightened as she saw his face. "What has happened?" she said, starting uF. He stared at her almost stupidly for a moment. Then he said, in a stony voice, 6"The worst that ever can happen to me in this or any world. If the lightning had burned me to a cinder, I could not be more utterly bereft of all that tends to make a good man. Edith Alien has sold herself to old Crowl. Some priest is going through a farce they will call a marriage, and all the good people will say, ' How well she has done i' What a miserable delusion this religious business is! You had better give it up, mother, as I do, here and now." "Hush, my son," said Mrs. Lacey, solemnly. "You have only seen Edith Allen. I have seen yesus Christ." ' There is some mystery about this," she added, after a moment's painful thought. "! will go and see her at once." tie seized her hand, saying: "Have I notheen a good son to you?" "Yes. Arden."    "2     4 ZA T' CAN SHE DO-  "Then by all I have ever been to you, and as you wish my love to continue, go not near her again." "'But, Arden-" "Promise me," he said, sternly. "Well," said the poor woman, with a deep sigh, "not without your. permission." From that time forth, Arden seemed as if made of stone. After he was gone Edith walked with uncertain steps to the little arbor, and sat down as if stunned. She lost all idea of time. After it was dark, Han- nibal called her in, and made her take a cup of tea. She then went mechanically to her room, but not to sleep. Arden's dreadful words  kept repeating themselves over and over again. "O God!" she exclaimed, in the darkness, "whither am I drifting? Must I be driven to this awful fate in order to provide for those dependent upon me?   Cannot bountiful Nature feed us? Wilt Thou not, in mercy, send one drop of rain? O Jesus, where is Thy mercy?" ' he next morning the skies were still cloudless, and she scowled darkly at the sunny dawn. Then, in sudden alternation of mood, she stretched her bare, white arms toward the little farm-house, and sighed, in tones of tremulous pathos: "Oh, Arden, Arden, I would rather die at your feet than live in a palace with him." - She sent down word that she was ill, and that she would not come down. Lautl, Mrs. Alilen, and even   SA VED.        493 Zell, came to her, but he kissed them wearily, and ,ent them away. She saw that there was deep anxiety on all their faces.' Pretty soon Hannibal came up with a cup of coffee. "You must drink it, Miss Edie,' he said. " cause we'se all a leanin' on you." Well-meaning words, but tending unconsciously to confirm her desperate purpose to sacrifice herself for them. She lay with her face buried in the pillow all day. She knew that their money was about gone, that provisions were scanty in the house, and to her morbid mind bags of gold were piled up before her, and Simon Crowl, as an ugly spectre, was beck. oning her towards them. As she lay in a dull lethargy of pain in the after- noon, a heavy jar of thunder aroused her. She sprang up instantly, and ran out bare-headed to the little rise of ground behind the house, and there, in the west, was a great black cloud. The darker and nearer it grew, the more her face brightened. It - was a strange thing to see that fair young girl look- ing toward the threatening storm with eager, glad expectancy, as if it were her lover. The heavy and continued roll of the thunder, like the ap- proaching roar of battle, were sweeter to her than love's whispers. She saw .with dilating eyes the trees on the distant mountain's brow toss and writhe  in the tempest; she heard the fall of rain-drops on the foliage of the mountain's side as if they were the feet of an army coming to her rescue. A few ,    i'   \ "4      WHAT CAN SHE DOI large ones, mingled with bail, fell aroun her like scattering shots, and she put out her hands to catch them. The fierce gusts caught up her loosened hair and it streamed away behind her. There wms a blinding flash,-and the branches of a tall locust near came quivering down-she only smiled. But dismay and trembling fear overwhelmed her as the shower passed on to the north. She could see it raining hard a mile away, but the drops ceased to fall around her. The deep reverberations rolled away in the distance, and in the west there was a long line of light. As the twilight deepened, the whole storm was below the horizon, only sending up angry flashes as it thundered on to parts un- known. With clasped hands and despairing eyes, Edith gazed after it, as the wrecked floating on a raft might watch a ship sail away, and leave them to perish on the wide ocean. She walked slowly down to the little arbor, and leaned wearily back on the -rustic seat. She saw night come on in breathless peace. Not a leaf stirred. She isaw the moon rise over the eastern hills, as brightly and serenely as if its rays would not fall on one sad face. Hannibal called, but she did not answer. Then he came out to her, and put the cup of tea to her lips, and made her drink it. She obeyed mechani. cally. "Poor chile, poor chile," he murmured, "I wish ole Hannibal could die for you." She lifted her face to him with such an expression,   SA VED.         495 that he hastened away to hide his tears But she sat still, as if in a dream, and yet she felt that the crisis had come, and that before she left that place she must come to some decision. Reason would be dethroned if she lived much longer in such suspense and irresolution And yet she sat still in a dreamy stupor, the reaction of her strong excitement. It seemed, in a certain sense, peaceful and painless, and she did not wish to goad herself out of it. "It may be like the last sleep before execution," she thought, " therefore make the most of it," and her thoughts wandered at will. A late robin came flying home to the arbor where' the nest was, and having twittered out a little ves- per-song, put its he, d under its wing, near his mate, which sat brooding in the nest over some little, brown eggs, and the thought stole into her heart. It Will God take care of them and not me?" and she watched the peaceful sleep of the family over heri head as if it were an emblem of faith. Then a sudden breeze swept a spray of roses against her face, and their delicate perfume was like' the " still small voice " of love, and the thought passed dreamily acroso Edith's mind, "Will God do so much for that little cluster of roses and yet de nothing for me." How near the Father was to his child. In this calm that followed her long passionate struggle, His mighty but gentle Spirit could make itself felt, andi it stole' into the poor girl's bruised heart with heavenly suggestiop and Healing power. The happy   - 496   -,WHA T CAN SHE DO! days when she followed Jesus and sat daily at His feet were recalled. Her sin was shown to her, not in anger, but in the loving reproachfulness of the Saviour's look upon faithless Peter, and a voice seemed to ask in her soul," How could you turn away your trust from Him to anything else? How could you think it right to do so great a wrong? How could you so trample upon the womanly na- ture that He gave you as to think of marrying where neither love nor God would sanction?" Jesus seemed to stand before her, and point up to the robins, saying, "I feed them. I fed the five thou- sand. I feed the world. I can feed you and yours. Trust Me.. Do right. In trying to save yourself you will destroy yourself." With a divine impulse, she threw herself on the floor of the arbor, and cried, "Jesus, I cast myself at Thy feet, I throw mriyself on thy mercy. When I look the world around, away from Thee, I see only fear and torment. If 1 die, I will perish at thy feet." Was it the moonlight only that made the night luminous? No, for the glory of the Lord shone around, and the peace that "passeth all under- standing" came flowing into her soul like a shining river. The ugly phantoms that hqad haunted her, vanished. The " black hand that seemed pushing her down," became her Father's hand, shielfdi g and sustaining. She rose as calm and serene as the summer even. ing and went straight to Mrs. Allen's room and said /   SAVE YD.        497 "Mother, I willnever marry Simon Crowl." Her mother began to cry, and say piteously, "Then we shall all be turned into the street." "What the future will be I can't tell," said Edith, gently, but firmly, "I will work for you, I will beg for you, I will starve with you, but I will never marry Simon Crowl, nor any other man- that I do not love." And pressing a kiss on her mother's face, she went to her room, and soon was lost in the first refreshing sleep that she had had for a long time. She was wakened toward morning by the sound of rain, and, starting up, heard its steady, copious downfall. In a sudden ecstacy of gratitude she sprang up, opened the blinds and looked out. The moon had gone down, and through the darkness. the rain was falling heavily; she felt it upon her forehead, her bare neck and arms, and it seemed to her Heaven's own baptism into a new and stronger faith and a happier life. at  ,   'q 9,w*   CHAPTER   XXXV. CLOSING SCENES. THE clouds were clearing away when Edith came down late the next morning, and all saw that the clouds had passed from her brow. "Bress de Lord, Miss Edie, you'se yoursef again!" said Hannibal, joyfully. "I neber see a shower do such a heap ob good afore." "No," said Edith, sadly; "I was myself. I lost my Divine Friend and Helper, and I then became myself--poor, weak, faulty Edith Allen. But, thanks to His mercy, I have found Him again, and so hope to be the better self that He helped me to be before." Zell looked at her with a sudden wonder, and went out and stayed among her flowers all day. Laura came and put her arms around her neck, and said, " O Edie, I am so glad! What you said set me to fearing and doubting; but I am sure we can trust Him." Mrs. Allen sighed drearily, and said," I don't understand it at all." But old Hannibal slapped his hands in true Methodist style, exclaiming, "Dat's it! Trow away de ole heart! Get a new one! Bress de Lord!"  8      CLOSIN G SCENES.  ;   499 Edith went out into the garden, and saw that there were a great many berries ripe; then she hastened to the hotel, and said: "O Mrs. Groody, for Heaven's sake, won't you help me sell my strawherries up here?" "' Yes, my dear," was the hearty response: " both for your sake and the strawherries, too. We get them from the city, and would much rather lhave fresh country ones." Edith returned with her heart thrilling with hope, and set to work picking as if every berry was a ruby, and in a few hours she had six quarts of fra- grant fruit. Malcom had lent her little baskets, and Hannibal took them up to the hotel, for Arden would not even look toward the little cottage any more. The old servant came back grinning with delight, and gave, Edith a dollar and a half. The next day ten quarts brought two dollars and a half. Then they began to ripen rapidly, the rain having greatly improved them, and Edith, with con- siderable help from the others, picked twenty, thirty, and fifty quarts a day. She employed a stoult boy from the village, to help her, and, through him, she soon had quite a village trade also. He had a per- centage on the sales, and, therefore, was very sharp in disposing of them. How Edith gloated over her money; how, with more than miserly eyes, she counted it over every night, and pressed it to her lips.   / In the complete absorption of the past few weeks Edith had not noticed the change going on in Zell.   500     WHA T CAN- SHE DO? The poor - creature was surprised and greatly pleased that the flowers grew so well for her. Every opening blossom was a new revelation, and the'r sweet perfume stole" into her wounded heart lik  balm. The blue violets seemed like children's eyes peeping timidly at her; and the pansies looked sto bright and saucy that she caught herself smiling: back at them. The little black and brown seeds she planted came up so promptly that it seemed a s if they wanted to see her as much as she did them "Isn't it queer," she said one day to herself, " thax such pretty things can come out of such ugly little things." Nothing in Nature seemed to turn away from her, any more than would Nature's God. The dumb life around began to speak to her in many and varied voices, and she who fled from companionship with her own kind, would sit and chirp and talk to the birds, as if they understood her. And they did seem to grow strangely familiar, and would almost eat crumbs out of her hand. One day in June she said to Hannibal, who was working near, "Isn't, it strange the flowers grow so well for me?" "Why shouldn't dey grow for you, Miss Zell?" asked he, straightening his old back up. "Good, innocent Hannibal, how indeed should you know anything about it?." "Yes, I does know all about it," said he, earnest. ly, and he came to her where she stood by a rose. bush. "Does you see dis white rose? '? "Yes," said 'Zell, " it opened this morning. I've been watchitng it."   CLOSING SCENES. *     5OI Poor Hannibal could not read print, hwik. he seemed to understand this exquisite passage in Na- ture's open book, for he put his black finget on the rose (which made it look whiter than before), and commenced expounding it as a preacher might his text. 4 Now look at it sharp, Miss Zell, 'ciuse it'll show you I does know all about it. It's w ite, isn't it?"  "Yes," said Zell, eagerly, for Hannibal held the attention of his audience. "Dat means pure, doesh't it?" continued lihe "Yes," said Zell, looking sadly down. "And it's sweet, isn't it? Now dat means lab. ,And Zell looked hopefully up. *' And now, dear chile," said he, giving her a little impressive nudge, "see whar de white rose come from-right up out of de brack, ugly ground." Having concluded his argument and made his point, the simple orator began his application, and Zell was leaning toward him in her interest. "De good Lord, he make it grow to show what He can do for us. 'Miss Zell," he said, in an awed whisper, " my ole heart was as brack as dat ground, but de blessed Jesus turn it as white as dis rose. Miss Edie, Lor' bless her, telled me 'bout Him, and I'se found it all true. Now, doesn't I know about it? I knows dat de good Jesus can turn de brack i est heart in de world jes like dis rose, make -it white and pure, and fill it up wid de sweetness of lub. I knows all about it."             . He spoke with- the power of absolute certainty    502    . WHA T CAN SHE DO? and strong feeling, therefore, his hearer was deeply moved. "Hannibal," she said, coming close to him, and putting her hand on his shoulder, "do you think Jesus could turn my heart white?" "Sartin, Miss Zell," answered he, stoutly, "Jes as easy as He make dis white rose grow."    ("'ould you mind asking Him? It seems to me I would rather pray out here among the flowers," she said, in low, tremulous tones. So Hannibal concluded his simple, but most effective service by kneeling down by his pulpit, the rose-bush, and praying: "Bressed Jesus, guve dis dear chilema new heart, 'cause she wants it, and you wants her to hab it. -Make it pure and full of lub. You can do it, dear Jesus. You knows you can. Now, jes please do it. Amen." Zell's responsive "Amen " was like a note from an Eolian harp; "Hannibal," said she, looking wistfully at him, *"I think I feel better. I think I feel it growing white." "Now jes look here, Miss Zell," said he, giving her a bit of pastoral counsel before going back to his work, " don't you keep looking at your heart, and scein how it feels, or you'll get discouraged. See dis rose agin? It don't look at itself. It jes looks up at de sun. So you look straight at Jesus, and your heart grow whiter ebery day." And Hannibal and the flower did gradually lead   \   L .  '    \          * CLOSING SCENES.      5 poor Zell to Him who " taketh away the sins of the world," and He said to her as to one of old, "Thy faith hath saved thee, go in peace." On the evening of the I4th of June, Edith had more than enough to pay the interest due on the 15th, and she was most anxious to have it settled. She was standing at the gate waiting for Hannibal to join her as escort, when she saw Arden Lacey coming toward her. He had not looked at her since that dreadful afternoon, and was now about to pass her without notice, though from his manner she saw he was conscious of her presence. He looked so worn and changed that her heart yearned toward him. A sudden thought, occurred to her, and she said, "Mr. Lacey." He kept right on, and paid no heed to her. There was a mingling of indignation and pathos in her voice when she spoke again. "I appeal to you as a woman, and no matter what I am, if you are a true man, you will listen."' There was that in her tone and manner that re- minded him of the dark rainy night when they first met. He turned instantly, but he approached her with a cold, sileht bow. "I must go to the village to-night. I wish your protection," she said, in a voice she tried vainly to render steady. He again bowed silently, and/they walked to the village together without a word. Hannibal came Ile'    -  504    WHAT CAN SHE DOt out in time to see them disappear down the road one on. one side of it, and one on the other. "Well now, dey's both quar," he said, scratching his white head with perplexity, " but one ting is mighty sartin, I'se glad my ole jints is saved dat tramp." Edith stopped at the door of Mr. Crowl's office, and Arden, for the first time, spoke hastily, "' I can't go in there." "I hope you are not afraid," said Edith, in a tone that made him step forward quick enough. Mr. Crowl looked as if he could not believe his eyes, but Edith gave him no time to collect his wits, but by the following little speech quite overwhelmed both him and Arden, though with different emo- tions. "There, sir, is the interest due on the mortgage. There is a slight explanation due you and also this gentleman here, who was my friend. There are four persons in our family dependent on me for support and shelter. We were all so poor and helpless that it seemed impossible to maintain ourselves in inde- pendence. You made a proposition through my mother, never to me, that might be called generous if it had not been coupled with certain threats of prompt foreclosure if not accepted. In an hour of weakness and for the sake of the ethers, I said to my mother, never to you that if I could not pay the interest and could not support the family,- I would marry you. But I did very wrong, -and I be- came so unhappy and desperate in view of -this par.   CLOSING SCENES      505 tial promise, that I thought I would lose my reason. But in the hour of my greatest darkness, when I saw no way out of our difficulties, God led me to see how wrongly I had acted, and to resolve that under no possible circumstances would I marry you, nor any man to whom I could not give a true wife's love. Since that time I have been able honestly to earn the money there; and in a few days more I will pay you the fifty dollars that my mother bor- rowed of you. So please give me my receipt." "And remember henceforth," said Arden sternly, "that this lady has a protector." Simon was sharp enough to see that he was beaten, so he signed the receipt and gave it to Edith with. out a word. They left his office and started home. ward. When out of the village Arden said timidly, "Can you forgive me, Miss Edith?" "Can you forgive me?" answered she, even more humbly. They stopped in the road and grasped each other's hands with a warmth more expressive than all words. Then they went on silently again. At the gate Edith said timidly, "Won't you come in?" ' "I dare not, Miss Allen," said Arden, gravely, and with a dash of bitterness in his voice. "I am a man of honor with all my faults, and I would keep the promise I made you in the letter I wrote one year ago. I must see very little of you, he continued, in a very heartsick tone, "but lit me serve you just the same."   5036     WHA T C AN SHE DO! Edith's face seemed to possess more than human loveliness as it grew tender and gentle in the radiance of the full moon, and he looked at it with the hunger of a famished heart. "But you made the promise to me, did you not?" she asked in a low tone. "Certaiply," said Arden. 'Then it seems to me that I have the right lo absolve you from the promise," she continued in a still lower tone, and a face like a damask-rose in. moonlight. "Miss Aile .-Edith-" said Arden, "oh, for Heaven's sake, be kind. Don't trifle with me." Edith had restrained her feelings so long that she was ready to either laugh or cry, so with a peal of laughter, that rang out like a chime of silvex bells, she said, "Like the fat Abbot in the story, I give you full absolution and plenary indulgence." He seized her hand and carried it to his lips: "Edith," he pleaded, in a low, tremulous tone, "will you let me be your slave?" "i Not a bit of it," said she, sturdily. "But," she added, looking shyly up at him, " if you will take me as your little wife, I will take you as my big husband." Arden was about to kneel at her feel, but she said: "Nonsense! If you must get on your knees, come and kneel to my strawherry-bed--you ought to thank that, I can tell you,' And so the matter   CLOSING SCENES.      507 of-fact girl, that could not abide sentiment, got through a scene that she greatly dreaded. - They could see the berries reddening among the green leaves, and the night wind blowing across them was like a gale from Araby the Blest. "Were it not for this strawherry-bed you would not have obtained absolution to-night. But, Ar. den, she added, seriously, " here is your way out of trouble, as well as mine. We are near good markets. Give up your poor, slipshod farming (I'm plain, you see,) and raise fruit. I will,supply you with vines. We will go into partnership. You show what a man can do, and I will show what a girl can' do." He took her hand and looked at her so fondly. that she hid her face on his shoulder. He stroked her head and said, in a a half mirthful tone: "Ah, Edie, Edie, woman once got man out of a garden, but you, I perceive, are destined to lead me into one; and any garden where you are will be Eden to me."              She looked up, with her face suddenly becoming grave and wistful, and said, "Arden, Giod will walk in my garden in the cool of the day.' You won't hide from  Him, will you?" "No," he answered, earnestly. "I now feel sure that, through my faith (in you, I shall soon have raith in Him,"   CHAPTER XXXVI. "AST WORDS. PDITH did sustain the family on the products E of her little place. And, more than that, the yield from her vines and orchard was so abundant, that she aided Arden to meet the interest of the mortgage on the Lacey place, so that Mr. Crowl could not foreclose that Autumn, as he intended. She so woke her dreamy lover up, that he soon became a keen, masterful man of business, and, at her sug- gestion, at once commenced the culture of small fiuits; she giving him a good start from her own place. Rose took the situation of nurse with Judge Clif- ford's married daughter, having the care of two little children. She thus secured a pleasant, sheltered home, where she was treated with great kindness. Instead of running in debt, as in New York, she was able to save the greater part of her wages, and, in two years, had enough ahead to take time to learn the dressmakers' trade thoroughly, for which she had a taste. Biat a sensible young mechanic, who had long been attentive, at last persuaded her to make him a  happy home. Mrs. Lacey's prayers were effectual in the case of her husband, for, to the astonishment of the whole   "AST WORDS.       509, neighborhood, he reformed, and became a con- sistent member of the church. Laura remained a pale home-blossom, sheltered by Edith's love. With the blossoms she loved, Zell faded away in the Autumn, but her death was like that of the flowers, in the full hope of the glad Spring-time of a new life. As,her eyes closed and she breathed her last sigh out on Edith's bosom, old Hannibal sobbed: "She's-a white rose-now-sure 'nuff." Arden and Edith were married the following year, on the 14th of June, the anniversary of their engagement. Edith greatly shocked Mrs. Allen by having the ceremony performed in the garden. "Why not?" she said. "God married a couple there once." Mrs. Groody, Mr. and Mrs. McTrump, Mrs. Ran- ger, Mrs. Hart and her daughters, and quite a num. ber of other friends, were present. Hannibal stood by the white rose-bush, that was again in bloom, and tears of joy, mingling /ith those of sorrow, bedewed the sweet flowers. And Malcom stood up, after the ceremon), ad said, with a certain dignity, that for a mc;ient hushed and impressed all present: ' Tho' I'm a little mon, I sometimes ha' great tho'ts, an' I have learned to ken fra my guiJi wife there, an' this sweet blossom o' the LorJ's, that woman can bring a' the wourld to God if she will. That's what she can do." a       *     ALPHABETICAL CATALOGUE OF Dodd, Mead & Company's PUBLICATIONS, 755 Broadway, New York. Abbott's (John S. C.) American Pioneers and Patriots. A series illus- trating the -early history and settlement of America. Each in one volume, 12mo, fully illustrated, and handsomely bound in black and gold. Per vol ............ $1 25 Columbus and the Discovery of Amer- ica. De Soto, the Discoverer of the Missis- sippi. La Salle : His Discoveries and Advent- ures with the Indians of the North- west. Miles Standish, the Captain of the Pilgrims. Captain Kidd and the Early American Buccaneers. Peter Stuyvesant and the Early Set- tlement of New York. Benjamin Franklin and the Struggles of our Infant Nation. George Washington and the Revolu- tionary War. Daniel Boone and the Early Settle- ment of Kentucky. Kit Carson, the Pioneer of the Far West. Paul Jones, the Naval Eero of the Revolution. i David Crockett and Early Texan His- tory.   - 2   DODD, MEAD & COMPANTS Abbott's, J. S. C., Popular His- tories of the Kingdoms of the World. Brought down to the present time. Each 1 vol., 8vo, with frontispiece. Cloth extra. Per vol .................$2 00 -Italy. Russia. Austria.                  / Prussia. Turkey. (By Edson L. Clark.) Egypt. (By J. C. McCoan.)   \ Germany. (By Baring Gould.)       Abbott, Lyman, D D.      A Lay- man's Story. Being the Experiences of John Laicus and His Wife in a Country Parish. 16mo. Cloth ................ 1 00 For Family Worship. Part 1, Scripture Selections. Part 2, Family Prayers. 12mo. Cloth, red edges............. 1 50 At a  High  Price.    From the German of E. Werner, author of "Vin eta, etc............... . ........... . 1 00 At any Cost. A Story. By Ed- ward Garrett, author of "Occupations of a Retired Life," etc. 12mo. Cloth... 1 00 Adventures in Patagonia. A Missionary's Exploring Trip. By Rev. Titus Coan. 12mo .  .................. 1 95 After Long Years.     A Story of the Early Days of the Republic. By Ausburn Towner. 12mo. Cloth...... 1 00 Against the Stream. The Story of an Heroic Age in England. By the author of "The SchSnberg-Cptta Fam- ily." 12mo. Cloth..........;....... 1 00 Agnes Warrington's Mistake. By Lucy Ellen Guernsey. 16mo. Cloth. 75 Alaska and    Missions on   the North Pacific Coast. Fully illustrated.- New edition, with an additional chapter and numerous new illustrations. By Sheldon Jackson, D D. 12mo.......  1 60   CA TALOGUE.         3 Ancient Monarchies. The Five Great Monarchies of the Ancient East- ern World. By George Rawlinson, M. A., Professor of Ancient History in Oxford University. In three volumes. 8vo. Maps and nearly 600 illustrations. Cloth extra, gilt tops .................. $9 00 Half morocco   ........ ................ 16 00 Half Levant ......  ..........   22......  00 The Sixth Ancient Monarchy. The History, (Geography, and Antiqui- ties of Parthia. By Prof. George Raw- linson 1I vol. 8vo. With maps and illus- trations... .. .................. . 3  00 Half morocco..............., ......... 5 50 The Seventh Great Oriental Monarchy, or the Geography, Ilistory, and Antiquities of the Sassanian or New Persian Empire. By Prof. George Raw- linson. 2 vols. 8vo. With map and illustrations. Cloth, gilt tops ......... 6 00 Half morocco ........... .............11 00 Students' Edition.   Ancient Monarchies Complete.  Printed from the same plates as the Fine Edition, but on thinner paper and with less margin. 6 vols. in 5. Cloth, extra.............. 6 25 Ancon.    The Necropolis of Ancon in Perl. A series of illustrations of the civilization and industry of the Empire of the Incas-beina the results of exca- vations by W. Reiss and A. Stathel. Pub- lished under the auspices of the directors of the Berlin Museum.   In 14 parts. Each............................ ..... 7 50 Architecture. History of Architecture in all Countries from the earliest to the present time. By James Fergusson. Illustrated. Uni- form with LiUbke's "History of Art." 2 vols.  8vo. Half roan ..... ......... 7 50 Half morocco...  ......... ........... 12 50 Atwater, Rev. E. E., D D. The Sacred  Tabernacle of the- Hebrews. With 50 full-page illustrations. 8vo. Cloth ............. ................... 3 50   4  DODD, MEAD & COMPANY'S Austin Elliot. By Henry Kings- ley. 12mo. Cloth ...............$...1 00 Baird. A History of the Emigra- tion of the Huguenots to America. By Charles W. Baird, D D. 2 vols., 8vo, with maps and illustrations ............ 5 00 Barr, Amelia E. Jan Vedder's Wife. A Novel. 16mo. cloth ............................... 1 00 Bayard. The very Joyous, Pleas- ant-and Refreshing History of the Feats, Exploits, Triumphs and Achievements of the (Good Knight, without Fear and without Reproach, the Gentle Lord de Bayard. Set forth in English by Edward Cockburn Kindersley. Uniform in size with "Chronicle of the Cid "With many illustrations. Cloth ornate, 4to... 2 50 Barriers Burned Away. A Story of the Great Fire in Chicago. By Rev. E. P. Roe. 12mo. Cloth........- 1 50 Bede's Charity. By Hesba Stret- ton. 12mo. Cloth............    1 00 Bible Steps for Little Pilgrims. Stories from the Old and New Testa- ments. Profusely illustrated. 12mo.., Bigot. Raphael and the Villa Far- nesina. By Charles Bigot. Translated from the French by Mary Healy. With 15 engravings of Raphael' s masterpieces, by Tiburce de Mare. The edition is limited to 150 copies, all numbered and signed. Quarto, uncut. 15 00 Birthday    Mottoes.   Selected from the writings of E. P. ROE for every day in the year, with blank space for entry of names. With Portrait of the Author and 12- illustrations. Small 16mo, tastefully bound in cloth........ I 00 Also in calf and morocco bindings, suitable for presents.   CATALaG   E.       5 Boone, Daniel, and- the Early Set- tlement of Kentucky. By John S. C. Abbott. 12mo. Cloth. Fully illustrated.$11 25 Bowles, Emily. In the Camargue. A Novel. 12mo. Clotli..-........... 1 00 Brandt, and Red Jacket, By Edward Eggleston and Lillie Eggleston Seelye. A volume of the series of Fa- mous American Indians. 12mo. Cloth. Illustrated .... ....................... 1 00 Broken to Harness.     A Novel. By Edmund Yates. 12mo. Cloth..... 1 00 Brought Home. By Hesba Stret- *        ton. A temperance tale. 16mo. Cloth. 1 00 Browning, Elizabeth BArrett. Poetical Works of Mrs. Browning. A new edition printed from new plates by De Vinne. 5 vols., 8vo, with portrait of the author. Large paper edition printed by De Vinne, limited to 172 copies, each copy numbered and signed as follows: On Vellum, 2 copies. On Japan paper, 20 copies. On Holland paper, 150 copies. --- Library   Edition. 5 vols., 16mo, handsomely printed, on fine paper, and bound in cloth, full gilt side and gilt tops .. ..... . . ................... .. 6 25 Browning    Robert.   Selections from the Poetry of Robert Browning. With an introductory note by Richard Grant White. Printed on linen paper by De Vinne. With an etched portrait by Ritchie. - 12mo. Cloth, gilt tops.... 2 00 Large paper edition, 70 copies printed on' Japan paper, bound in vellum. Bryan's Dictionary of Paint- ers, Sculptors and Engravers. A new edition from entirely new plates. Re- vised and brought down to date. To be . issued in about 12 parts. Price, per part, in paper covers........ .......... 1 75 Complete in 2 vols.- 8vo, cloth........24 00   6  DODD, MEAD & COMPANt'S8 Binyan, John. The Pilgrim's Progress. A new -Edi- tion, with numerous illustrations by --         Sir John Gilbert, printed on tinted paper, tastefully bound. 8vo. Cloth, gilt edges......    ............$2 00 Do., do., plain edges ................. 1 50 Burcklardt, Jacob.      The Civil- ization of the Period of the Renaissance in Italy. 2 vols. 8vo. Illustrated.... 7 50 By   Still Waters.  By Edward Garret. 12mo. Cloth .......... ...... 1 00 Carola. ByHesbaStretton. 16mo. cloth ...... ...... ................... 1 25 Carson, Kit, the Pioneer of the -Far West.   By John S. C. Abbott. 12mo. Cloth. Fullyillustrated ....... 1 25 Casella. A Story of the Waldenses. By the author of. the 4"Elsie Books." 12mo. Cloth ............ ........... 1 25 Cassique of Kiawah.       A Colo- nial Romance by William Gilmore Simms.... ........... ............. . 1  00 Oassy. By Hesba Stretton. 16mo. Cloth ............................... 1  00 Character Sketches. Including "Wee Davie,"   "Billy Buttons," etc., etc. By Norman Macleod, D D. 12mo. Cloth. Illustrated .....  ............... 1 25 Church, Prof. Alfred J. Stories from Homer. Stories from Virgil. Stories from the Greek Tragedians. Stories from Herodotus. Stories from Livy. Roman Life in the Days of Cicero. Stories of the Persian War from Hero-   Q dotus.-  Each 1 vol. 12mo. Each vol illus- trated with about 20 plates in color from designs by Flaxman and others. Cloth extra.  Per vol....................... 1  50   CATALOG UE.         7 Character of St. Paul. By J. S. Howson, D D. 12mo. Cloth......... Charles, Mrs. Andrew. Joan the Maid, Deliverer of France and England. 12mo. Cloth ............$1 00 r  Lapsed, but not Lost. A Tale of Carthage   t and the Early Church. 12mo. Cloth. 1 00  . Note-Book of the Bertram Family. A sequel to Winifred Bertram. 12mo. Cloth ............................. 1  00 Conquering and to Conquer. 12mo. Cloth........................... ..  1 00 Against the Stream. The Story of an Heroic Age in England.. 12mo. Cloth. 1 00 Schonberg-Cotta Family.  Chronicles of the, as told by two of themselves. 12mo. Cloth...................... 1 00 A cheap edition. 4to. Paper covers. 25 Early Dawn (The); or, Sketches of Christian Life in England in the Early Time. 12mo. Clot ............... 1 00 Diary of Kitty Trevylyan. A Story of the Times of Whitefield and the Wesleys. 12mo. Cloth............. 1 00 Winifred Bertram, and the World she Lived in. 12mo. Cloth ............ 1 00 The  Draytons and Davenants.  A Story of the Civil Wars. 12mo. Cloth. 1 00 On Both Sides of the Sea. A Story of the Commonwealth and the Restora- tion. 12mo. Cloth ................. 1 00 The Victory of the Vanquished. A Story of the First Century. 12mo. Cloth.. I 00 Women of Christendom. Being Sketch- es of the Lives of the Notable Chris- tian Women of History. 12mo ...... 1 00 Watchwords for the Warfare of Life. Selected from the Writings of Luther. 12mo.  Cloth ....................... 1 00 The 14 vols. above in a box........... 4 00 Mary,the Handmaid of the Lord. 18mo. , Cloth.. ............................ 1 00 Poems. New edition. 18mo.   Cloth, red edges ......................... 1 00 Selections from the Writings of the Author of  "The Sch6nberg-Cotta Family." Large 12mo. Cloth. .... 1 75   8  DODD, MEAD & COMPAINY'S Charlotte, Elizabeth. Judah's Lion. 12mo. Cloth ...............$1 00 Cherry   and Violet. A   Tale of the Glreat Plague. By Anne Manning, author of "Mary Powell," etc. 16mo. Cloth............ ................... 1  00 Christian Counsel and Spirit- ual Letters. By Archbishop Fenelon.     \ 18mo.  Cloth ......................... 1 00 Christian    Missions.   Lectures delivered at Yale Theological Seminary. By Prof. J. H. Seelye, D D., of Amherst. 12mo. Cloth ........................ 1 00 Christian Way     (The)--Whither it Leads and How to Go On. By Rev. Washington Gladden. 16mo. Cloth..   75 Chronicle of the Cid. Edited by Richard Markham, and illustrated with upward of fifty designs by Mc- Vickar and Brennan. Quarto. Cloth.. 3 00 Clark, Rev. Edson L., member of the American Oriental Society. The Races of European Turkey--Their His- tory, Condition, and Future Prospects. Volume V. in the Series Kingdoms of the World. With map. 8vo. Cloth.. 2 00 Coan, Rev. Titus. Adventures in Patagonia. 12mo .................. 1 25 Cobwebs and Cables.     A Story. By Hesba Stretton, author of "Bede's Charity," "Through a Needle's Eye," etc., etc. 12mo ...........  .   1 00 Coleridge. The Poems of Samuel Taylor Coleridge. 1 vol. Square 16mo, beautifully printed at the Chiswick Press, and bound in parchment, with gilt top ...  . .......... .................. 1 75 Columbus and the Discovery of America. By John S. C. Abbott. 12mo,. Fully illustrated .. ............ 1 25   &CATA LOGUE.        9 Colonial   Days.    Being Stories and Ballads for Young Americans as re- counted by Five Boys and Five Girls in "Around the Yule Log."  "Aboard the Mavis," and "On the Edge of Winter." By Richard Markham. 4to, with many illustrations, handsomely bound in cloth. $2 50 Comparative History of Re- ligions. By Jas. C. Moffat, D D., Pro- fessor of Church History in Princeton Theological Seminary. Two vols. 12mo. Cloth. Part I.-Ancient Scriptures.... Part II.-Later Scriptures............. New edition. 2 vols. in one ............ 2 50 Comyn, S. N.      Elena: Ah Ital- ian Tale ............................. 0 Confederate Soldier (A) in Egypt. By W. W. Loring, Late Colonel in U. S. Army, Major-General in the Confederate Service, and Fe'reek Pacha and General in the Army of the Khedive of Egypt. 1 vol, 8vo, cloth. With 47 illustrations . ..................... ....  3 50 Conquering     and to  Conquer. By the author of "The Schlnberg-Cotta Family." 12mo.   Cloth.............. I 00 Cook, Duttonx Doubleday's Chil- dren.  A Novel. 12mo ............... 1 00 Cooking Manual of Practical Directions for  Economical Every-Day Cookery. By Juliet Corson, Supt. of the New York Cooking School.   18mo. In waterproof covers...W................. 50 Concordance to the Bible. See Cruden. Copan and Quirigua.      See Meye. Corals and    Coral Islands.   By James D. Dana, Professor of Geology in Yale College. Large -8vo, with colored frontispiece, three maps, and nearly 100 illustrations. Cloth extra... ..........3 50 '!85   10  DODD, MEAD & COMPANY'S Cornwall, C. M. Mary A. Roe. Free, yet Forging their Own Chains. 12mo. Cloth ........................$1 00 Corson, Juliet, Supt. of the New York Cooking School. The Cooking Manual of Practical Directions for Eco- nomical Every-Day Cookery. 18mo, in waterproof covers.........*....*....  50 Practical American Cookery and House- hold Management. By Juliet Corson, author of the Cooking Manual Text- Book for Cooking. Illustrated ...... 1 50 Crew of the Dolphin (The). By Hesba Stretton. 16mo. Cloth ........ 1 00 Cradle Songs of Many Na- tions, by R. L. Herman and Walter Sat- terlee. A-collection of Cradle Songs, in nearly every instance never before published. Over twenty-five nationalities are repre- sented. Among them, Russian, Swedish, Danish, French, Spanish, Zulu, Malabar, Japanese, Chinese, Italian, Languedoc, Greek, Latin, English, North American Indian, etc., etc. - The whole making an entirely unique collection. Illustrated in ten colors, by Walter Satterlee, and bound in cloth gilt .............e* 2 50 Crockett, David, and     Early Texan Hiltory. By John S. C. Abbott. 12mo. Cloth. Fully illustrated ....... 1 25 Crooked Places. A Story of Struggles and Triumphs. By Edward Garrett. 12mo. Cloth ............... 1 00 Crowe and Cavalcaselle.      The Life of Titian, with illustrations. 2 vols., 8vo........ .......................... 7 50 Crust and the Cake (The).     By Edward Garrett. 12mo. Cloth....... 1 00 Cumberstone Contest (The). By the author of "Battles Worth Fighting." Anew edition. 12mo. Cloth:........ 1 25   CA TAJOGUE.        " Cruden, Alexander. Cruden's Complete Concordance. A Dic- tionary and Alphabetical Index to the Bible. (The. Unabridged Edition). 4to. 856 pages. Cloth............. Sheep  ...............................$3 50 Half morocco... ....................... 4 50 Students'Edition. (Complete.) Cloth. 1 50 Cruden's Abridged Concordance. Edited by John Eadie, D D., LL D. Large 12mo.  Cloth...................... 75 Sheep ........................... . 2 00 Curzon.    Monasteries of the Le- vant. A new edition. 12mo.......... 1 50 Daily   Prayer-Book. For the use of Families, with additional Prayers for special occasions. Edited by John Stoughton, D D. 12mo. Bevelled boards, red  edges............................ 1  50 Daisy Ward's Work. By Mary W. McLain. 16mo. Illustrated.......? 75 Dana, Prof. Jas. D., Professor of Geology in Yale College, author of "A System of Mineralogy," etc. Corals and Coral Islands. Large 8vo, with colored frontispiece, three maps, and nearly 100 illustrations. Cloth extra ............. 3 50 Daudet, Alphonse.       From the French: "The Nabob," "Jack," etc... 1 00 David Lloyd's Last Will.      By Hesba Stretton. 16mo. Cloth........ 1 00 Day of Fate. A Novel. By E. P. Roe. 12mo. Cloth    ................ 1 50 Dead Sin (The), and other Sto- ries. By Edward Garrett. 12mo. Cloth. 1 00 De Forest, Julia B. A      Short History of Art. Octavo, with 253 il- lustrations, numerous charts, a full in- dex giving the pronunciation of the proper names by phonetic spelling, and a glossary ...........  ...    2 00   12   DODD, MEAD  & C0OMPANY'S De Liefde, J. B.   The Maid of Stralsund. An Historical Novel of the Thirty Years' War. 12mo. Cloth ......$1 00 De Soto, the Discoverer of the Mississippi. By John S. C. Abbott. 12mo. Cloth. sFully illustrated....... 1 25 Diary of Kitty Trevylyan. A Story of the Times of Whitefield and the Wesleys. By the author of "The Schonberg-Cotta Family." 12mo. Cloth. 1 00 Diary. See Pepys. Doing and Dreaming.     By Ed- ward Garrett. 12mo. Cloth ..........  1 00 Dollar Novels (D., M. & Co.'s Series of), Handsomely and uniformly bound. 12mo. Cloth. Each.. 1.....  1 00 Through a Needle's Eye. By Hesba Stretton. Bede's Charity. By Hesba Stretton. Hester Morley's Promise. By JHesba Stretton. Ravenshoe. By Henry Kingsley. Geoffry Hamlyn. By Henry Kingsley. Austin Elliott. By Henry Kingsley. Leighton Court. By Henry Kingsley. Hillyars and Burtons. By Henry Kingsley. The Maid of Stralsund. By J. B. DP Liefde. Doubleday's Children. By Dutton Cook. In Prison and Out. By Hesba Stret- ton. Cobwebs and Cables. By Hesba Stret- ton. Isaac T. Hopper. The Story of his Life. Broken to Harness. By Edmund Yates. Running the G(auntlet. By Edmund Yates. Linnet's Trial.. By author of Twice Lost. In the Camargue. By Emily Bowles. Victory Deane. By Cecil Griffith.   C-AT IALOGUE.       13 Dollar Novels (Continued). After Long  Ye rs.  By Ausburn Towner. -Mainstone's Itouskeeper. Jack. By Alphp lse Daudet, The Nabob. By Alphonse Daudet. Vineta. By Ernest Werner. At a High Price. By Ernest War- ner. Elena. By L. N. Comyn. Cassique of Kiawah. By Wm. Gil- more Simms. Forging their Chains. By Mary A. Roe. Esau Hardery. By W. O. Stoddard. Sir Tom. By Mrs. Oliphant. Gautran; or, The House of White Shadows. By B. L; Farjeon. How it all Came Around.  By L. T. Meade. Fleurette. By Eugene Scribe. A Jolly Summer. Margaret. By C C. Fraser Tytler. The Starling. By Norman MacLeod. The Lillingstones of Lillingstone. By Eo J. Worboise. Wrecked? By W. 0. Stoddard. Gideon Fleyce. By H. W. Lucy. A Daughter of the Gods. By Chas. M. Clay. Winifred Power. By Joyce Darrell. The Shadow of John Wallace. By L. Clarkson. The Secret Dispatch. By James Grant. *** Others to follow. Dollinger, Dr. J. J. I. Von. Fables Respecting the Popes of the Mid- dle Ages. Translated by Alfred Plum- mer. Together with Dr. Dollinger's Essay on the Prophetic Spirit and the Prophecies of the Christian Era. Trans- lated for the American Edition, with In- troduction and Notes to the whole work, by Prof. H. B. Smithl, D D. Large 12mo. Cloth . .................. . . Doubleday's Children. A Novel. By Dutton Cook. 12mo ......... .... 1 00 y   "-DODD, MEAD & COMPA N'S Double   Story  (A).  By George Macdonald, author of "Annals of a Quiet Neighborhood," etc. 16mo. Cloth.... $0 75 Douglass, Marian.      Peter and Polly; or, Home Life in New England a Hundred Years Ago. 16mo, Cloth..  73  Draytons and the Davenants (The). A Story of the Civil Wars. By the author of "The Sellhnberg-Cotta Family." 12mo.   Cloth ............. 1 00 Early Dawn (The); or, Sketches of Christian Life in England in the Early Time. By the author of "The Schonberg-Cotta Family." 12mo. Cloth. 1 00 Eaton,    Prof.  D. C.   Ferns of North America.   Illustrated by J. I. Emmerto  , twith many superb plates in color. Text by Prof. Eaton. 2 vols. Royal 4to. Cloth.....       30 00 Half morocco...................39 00 Edwards, Tryon, D D.         The World's  Laconics; or,  The  Best' Thoughts of the Best Authors, in Prose and Poetry. 12mo. Cloth....- 1  00 Eggleston, Edward and George Cary, and Lillie Eggleston Seelye. Famous  American Indians.  A  series illustrative of Early American History. Each in one handsome volume, illustrat- ed with maps and engravings. Uniform- ly bound.  12mo. Cloth. Per vol ... 1 00 Tecumseh and the .Shawnee Prophet. By Edward  Eggleston and Lillie Eggleston Seelye. Red Eagle. By George Cary Eggles- ton. Pocahontas. By Edward Eggleston and Mrs. Seelye. Brandt and Red Jacket. By the same. Montezuma.  By the same.  Egypt.  History of Ancient Egypt. By George Rawlinson, Camden Profes- sor of Ancient History in Oxford Uni- versity. 2 vols. 8vo. Cloth. With maps and illustrations ................. .... 00 Half morocco ...    .  ......... * 11 00   11 00   YA TALOGUE.        15 Egypt. Students' Edition. From the same plates as the regular edition, but on thinner paper and with slightly less margin. 2 vols, 8vo .............. $3 00 Egypt.   See McCoan. Egypt.   See Loring. Elena.   An Italian Tale.   By S. N. Comyn...............I...........'1 00 Ellwanger, H. B. The Rose. Its Cultivation, Varieties, etc., etc. 16mo. Clotlh .......................... .... 1  25 Elsie Books (The). By Martha Finley.  Ten vols., in   box. 16mo. Cloth. New edition ..................12 50 Sold separately at $1.25 per vol, Elsie Dinsmore. Elsie's Girlhood. Elsie's Holidays at Roselands. Elsie's Womanhood. Elsie's Motherhood. Elsie's Children. Elsie's Widowhood. Grandmother Elsie. Elsie's New Relations. Elsie at Nantucket. F mmrerton, J. H.    Spiders, The Structure  and Habits of. Numerous woodcuts. 12mo. Cloth............. 1 50 Ferns of North America. Illustrated by many superb plates in color., Text by Prof. D. C. Eaton, of Yale College. 2 vols. Royal 4to. Cloth.30 00 HE If morocco.  .................39 00 Esau    Hardery.   A   Novel  of American Life. By William 0. Stod- dard.... .................. . ..... 1 00 Etchers: French. Examples of the Etched Work of Corot, Jacquemart, Ballin, Veyrassat, Le Page, Chauvel, etc. With descriptive text by Roger Riordan. 20 plates..... . ........ .......15 00 Every-day Thoughts. By Rev. T. De Witt Talmage, D D. 12mo. Cloth ......................   16 DODD, MEAD & COMPA Y'S Etchers: English. Fifteen etch- ings by Murray, Strang, Meryon, -Chat- tock, Pennell, Lalanne, Toussaint, Dobie, Cooper and others. Folio, cloth, gilt side, uniform  with our previous and very successful volumes of etchings. Price ............................... . $12 50 Fables Respecting the Popes of the Middle Ages. By Rev. J. J. 1. Von Dollinger.  Translated by Alfred Plummer. With introduction and Notes by Prof. H. B. Smith, D D. Large 12mo. Cloth.... ............................ Face    Illumined   (A).  By Rev. E. P. Roe. 12mo. Cloth............ 1 50 Faire Gospeller (The), Anne Askew.   By Anne Manning.   16mo. Cloth ................. .............. i1 00 Faniliar Talks to Boys.        By  John Hall, D D. 16mo. Cloth.......   50 Family    Fortunes.   By Edward Garrett.  12mo ....................... 1  00 Famous American Indians. An Historical Series for Young People. By Edward Eggleston and others. 12mo. Cloth. Illustrated. Per vol .......... 1 00 Tecumseh and the Shawnee Prophet. Red Eagle and the Wars with the Creek Indians. Pocahontas and Powhattan. Brandt and Red Jacket. Montezuma. Fergusson.     A History of Archi- tecture in all Countries, from the Ear- liest Times to the Present Day.   By James Fergusson. Illustrated. Uniform with Liibke's History of Art. 2 vols. 8vo, hali roan ... ............... 7 50 Half morocco....... 0.....12 50 'Ferns in their Homes and Ours. With eight chromo-lithographs of rare ferns, and many other plates and illustra- tions. By J. Robinson. 12mo. Cloth.. 1 50   CATALOGUE.         17 Ferns of North America. With many superbly illustrated plates in color. The text by Prof. D. C. Eaton, of Yale College. Illustrations by J. H. Emerton. Two vols. Royal 4to. Cloth.........$30 00 Half morocco ....... ..................39 00 Finley, Martha. Wanted, a Pedigree. A Novel. Large 12mo. Cloth. Nearly 600 pages.... 1 25 Signing the Contract, and What it Cost. A. Novel. 12mno. Cloth............ 1 25 Cassella. A Tale of the Waldenses. 12mo. Cloth .................. .  1 25 Our Fred; or, Seminary Life at Thurs- tonl. 12mo. Cloth................. 1 25 Oldfashioned Boy. 12mo............. 1 25 The above boxed together as the Finley Library. 5 vols .....................6 25 The Elsie Books.   Per vol., $1.25. Ten vels., in neat box. 16mo. Cloth.12 50 Elsie Dinsmore. Elsie's Girllhood. El]sie's Holidays at Roselands. Elsie's Womanhood. Elsie's Motherhood. Elsie's Children. Elsie's Widowhood. Grandimothler Elsie. Elsie's New Relations. Elsie at Nantucket, The Mildred Books.   A Companion Series to the Elsie Books. Per vol., $1.25. 5 vols. in box. ................6 25 Mildred Keith. Mildred at Roselands. Mildred and Elsie. Mildred's Married Life. Mildred at Home. Fish, Henry C., D D. History and Repository of Pulpit Elo- quence. (Deceased Divines.) Two vols. inone. 8vo. Over1200pages. Cloth. 3 00 Pulpit Eloquence of the Nineteenth Cen- tury. 8vo. Cloth. With supplement containing additional discourses..... 3 00   - 18  DODD, MEAD  & COMPANY'S For Family Worship.      Part 1, Scripture Selections. Part 2, Family Prayers. Edited by Rev. Lyman Ab- bott, D D. 12mo. Cloth, red edges..$1 50' Franllin, Benjamin, and     the Struggles of our Infant Nation. By John S. C. Abbott. 12mo. Cloth. Fully Il- lustrated ....   ...... ........... 1 25 Free, Yet Forging their Own Chains. Bv C. M. Cornwall (Mary A. Roe.) 12ino. Cloth.................. 1 00 Freeman. -A History of the Nor- man Conquest of England. Its Causes and its Results. By Edward A. Free- man. 6 vols. 8vo. Cloth, gilt tops...20 00 From Jest to Earnest.    By Rev.   , E. P. Roe. 12mo. Cloth ............ 1 50 Garrett's (Edward) Works.      A new edition, bound in uniform style. 12mo. Cloth. Per Vol..........I...... 1 00 The Set in a box, 11 vols ..............11 00 Doing and Dreaming. By Still Waters. Gold and Dross; or, Hester Capel's Inheritance. Crooked Places. A Story of Struggles and Triumphs. Premiums Paid to Experience. Inci- dents in my Business Life. The Dead Sin, and other Stories. The Occupations of a Retired Life. The Crust and the Cake. The House by the Works. Family Fortunes. Her Object in Life. At Any Cost. (New.) 16mo. Cloth.. 1 25 Geoffry Hamlyn.      The Recollec- tions of. A novel. By Henry Kingsley. 12mo. Cloth .............  ....  1 00 Gilman, Arthur, 1VLA. Shakespeare's Morals. 12mo ........... 1 50 Gladden, Rev. Washington. The Christian Way-Whither it Leads and How to do On. 16mo. Cloth... ..  75   CA TAALOG UE.       19 God's Word through Preach- ing. By Rev. John Hall, D D. Being the Yale Lectures for 1875. 12mo. Cloth.$1 25 Goethe's Mother.     Correspond- ence of Catharine Elizabeth Goethe with Goethe, Lavater, Wieland, Duchless of Saxe-Weimar, and others. Translated from the German, with the addition of Biographical Sketches and Notes by Al- fred S. Gibbs, and an Introductory Note by Clarence Cook. 8vo. Cloth....... 2 00 Gold, and   Dross; or, Hester Capel's Inheritance. By Edward Garrett. 12mo.  Cloth ......................... 00 Gospels   in   Harmony    (The). Having the Texts of the Four Evangelists in parallel columns, with Notes, Refer- ences, and Charts. By R. Mimpriss. Pocket edition. Small type. Paper... 60 1/'     16mo edition. Large type. Cloth..... 1 25 Gould, Baring.       Germany. Octavo. Cloth ....................... 2 00 Grace 'for Grace, The Letters of the Rev. William James on the Higher Christian Life. 12mo. Cloth ........ 1 25 Greek Hero Stories. Translated from the German of Prof. Niebuhr, au- thor of "History of Rome," by Benja- min Hoppin. With 12 full-page illus. trations by Augustus Hoppin. 16mo. Cloth ..........................   1 00 Griffith, Cecil.   Victory Dean. A Novel. 12mo. Cloth............ 1 00 Guernsey, Lucy Ellen. Agnes Warrington's Mistake. 16mo. Cloth..  75 Gypsy (The) Stories. By Eliza- beth Stuart Phelps. 4 vols. 16mo. Cloth. Illustrated. Each... ....... 1 00 Gypsy Breynton. Gypsy's Cousin Joy. Gypsy's Sowing and Reaping. Gypsy's Year at the Golden Crescent.   20 DODD, MEAD     a COMPANY'S Half Hour Series (The).     4 vols. A New Edition. 12mo. Profusely il- lustrated. Cloth. Per vol .......... $1 25 Half Hours in the Great Deep. Half Hours in the Far North. Half Hours in the Far East. Half Hours in the Tiny World. Hall, John, D D. God's Word through Preaching. Being the Yale Lectures for 1875. 12mo. Cloth .............................. 1  25 Papers for Home Reading. 12mo. Cloth. With Portrait ..  ................. 1 25 Questions of the Day. 12mo. Cloth... 1 25 Familiar Talks to Boys. 16mo. Cloth.- 50 Harmony of the Reformed Confessions (The), as related to the pres- ent state of Evangelical Theology. By Philip Schaff, D D. 12mo. Cloth.....  60 Harrison. Jennie. Little Boots. 12mo. Cloth ...........  1 25 The Old Back-Room. 12mo. Cloth... 1 25 Hesse-Wartegg.       Tunis.  The Land and the People. By the Cheva- lier de Hesse-Wartegg. With 22 illus- trations. 12mo. Cloth  ..............e 1 75 Hester Morley's Promise.        By Hesba Stretton. 12mo. Cloth ........ 1 00 Her    Object  in  Life.  By Ed- ward Garrett. 12mo. Cloth   .   1 00 Hillyars     and  the  Burtons (The).   By Henry Kingsley. 12mo. Cloth ................................ 1  00 His Sombre    Rivals.   A  Novel. By E. P. Roe.  12mo. Cloth......... 1 50 History and Repository of Pulpit Eloquence. (Deceased Divines.) By Henry C. Fish, D D.   Two vols. in one. 8vo. Over 1200 pages, with por- trait.  lot ..   .  ..................... 3  00   IA TALOG UE.       21 History  of Art, Outlines of. Dr. Wilhelm Lulike. A new translation from the Seventh GermanEdition. Ed- * ited with Notes, by Clarence Cook, in two volumes, royal 8vo. With nearly 600 illustrations. Cloth, gilt tops ........... ..... $14 00 Half morocco .........................19 00 Half Levant...........   ............22 50 Full Levant, full gilt ................. 30 00 Students' Edition, Complete. 2 vols. Cloth ............... ................. 7  50 Half morocco ......................... 12 50 History  of the Emigration of the Huguenots to America. By Charles W. Baird, D D. 2 vols., 8vo, with maps and illustrations ............... . 5 00 History   of Painting-Ancient, Early Christian, and Mediaeval. From the German of Prof. Alfred Woltmann       i and Dr. Karl Woermann. Translated and edited by Prof. Sidney Colvin, of Cambridge University. One large 8vo volume with nearly 200 illustrations. Cloth  ....... ...................... . 7 50 Half morocco ............  .... .......10 50 Half Levant, or, half Russia...........12 50 Tree calf, or, full Levant .......... ....15 00 Also in preparation, A History of Mod- ern Painting, by the same authors, which with the present volume will make this the most complete work on the subject. History of Sculpture. By Lucy M. Mitchell. With upward of 250 il- lustrations. Inmperial octavo. ...........12 50 Hood, Rev. E. Paxton.     Lamps, Pitchers, and Trumpets. Lectures on the Vocation of the Preacher. Illustrat- ed by Anecdotes, Biographical, Histori- cal, and Elucidatory, of every order of Pulpit Eloquence, from the great Preach- ers of all Ages. A new edition. Two series. Each in one vol. 12mo....... 2 00   22 DODD, MEAD & COMPANY'S Hopnns, Mark, D D,      Strength and Beauty.  Discussions for Young Men. 12mo. Cloth..   .. ........... O $1 25 Hopper, Isaac T. The Life of. A new edition of this stirring book, for many years out of print. 12mo. With 2 portraits ........................... 1  00 House by the Works (The). By Edward Uarrett. - 12mo. Cloth....... 1 00 Household    of Sir Thomas More.  By Anne Manning, author of "Mary Powell," etc. 16mo. Cloth... 1 00 Howson, J. S., D D.    The Char- acter of St. Paul. 12mo. Paper.....  50 Half a Score of Etchers. Ten etchings by the great French artists. Folio, with text....................... 7 50 Heroes of    Chivalry.     Being The Chevalier Bayard and the Chron- icles of The Cid. Quarto, nearly 700 pages, numerous illustrations, cloth. With ornate design in colors and gold.. 2 50 In Prison and Out.      By Hesba Stretton, author of "Bede'a Charity," etc. 12mo.- Cloth .................. 1 00 In the Camargue. A Novel. By Emily Bowles. 12mo. Cloth ......... 1 00 Jack.    From  the French of Al- phonse Daudet, author of "The Nabob." 1 00 Jackson, Sheldon, D D. Alaska, and Missions on the North Pacific Coast. Fully illustrated. 12mo...:........... 1 50 Jacques, Bonneval.     A Tale of the Huguenots. By the author of "Mary Powell." 16mo. Cloth.............. 1 00 James, Rev. William.       Grace for Grace. The Letters of the Rev. Will- iam James on the Higher Christian Life. 12mo.  Cloth ................. ....... 1 25   CATALOG UE.        23 James, F. L., F R.G S.      The Wild Tribes of the Soudan. An account of travel and sport chiefly in the Base Country; being personal experi- ences and adventures during three win- ters spent in the Soudan. 8vo. With 3 maps and 40 full-page illustrations, engraved for the book from photographs taken on the spot. Handsomely printed and bound. Cloth.-................ ..$5 00 Jan Vedder's Wife. A Novel. By Amelia E. Barr. 16mo. Cloth..... 1 00 Jay, William, D D. Prayers for the Use of Families. By the author of ( Morning and Evening Exercises," etc. 12mno. Cloth... ..................... 1 00 Jessup, Henry H., D D. Mis- sionary in Syria. Women of the Arabs. 15 full-page illustrations. 12mo. Cloth ....... 1 25 Syrian Home-Life. Illustrated. 16mo. Cloth ...............*......... ... 90 Joan  the  Maid.   Deliverer of France and England. A Story of the Fifteenth Century. Done into Modern- English by the author of "The Schon- berg-Cotta Family." 12mo. Cloth.... 1 00 Johnson, Rossiter. The War of 1812 between the United States and great Britain. The Old French War. Volumes first and second in the series "MinoT Wars-of the United States." Each 1 vol. 12mo. Illustrated...... 1 25 Jones, Paul, the, Naval Hero of the Revolution. By John S. C. Abbott. 12mo. Cloth. Fully illustrated... .. 1 25 Judah's Lion. By CharlotteEliza- beth. 12mo. Cloth.................. 1 00 Kidd, Captain, and the Early American Buccaneers. By J. S. C. Ab-- bott. 12mo. Cloth. Fully illustrated. 1 25   24 DODD, MEAD & COMPANY'S Keats. The Letters and Poems of John Keats, reprinted from/the edition edited by Lord Houghton, with memoir by John Gilmer Speed; and Letters, many of which have never before been published. With illustrations, 3 vols. Post 8vo. Printed from type. By De Vinne. Only 350 copies printed, each copy numbered and signed as follows  4 copies on vellum. 12 copies on China paper. 55 copies on Whatman paper. 279 copies on Holland paper, . A few of the Holland copies may be had at  ................$15 00 Kingdoms of the World. A Series of Popular History, all brought down to the present time. Each in 1 vol. 8vo. With frontispiece. Cloth extra. Per vol ............................... 2 00 Italy. Russia. Austria. BY John S. C.- Abbott. Prussia. Turkey.  By Edson L. Clark. Egypt.  By J. C. McCoan. Germany. By Baring Gould. Kingsley, Henry. Austin Elliott., 12mo. Cloth ........ 1 00 Leighton Court. 12mo. Cloth........ 1 00 Ravenshoe. 12mo. Cloth.....,....... 1 00 The Recollections of Geoffry Hamlyn. 12mo.  Cloth ...................... 1  00 The Hillyars and the Burtons. 12mo. Cloth .. ..................  ......... 1  00 King's Servants (The). By Hesba Stretton. 16mo. Cloth..............  90 Knight of the XIX. Century (A). By Rev. E. P. Roe. 12mo. Cloth. 1 50 Ladd, Horatio' O. History of the War with Mexico. 12mo. Cloth.. 1 25 Lady of Shalott (The).      By A. l     -    Tennyson. Decorated in colors by How- ard Pyle. Quarto. Richly bound. Cloth.' Gilt ................... .  ......... 3 00   CATALOGUE.        25 L,amps, Pitchers, and Trump- ets. Lectures on the Vocation of the Preacher. Illustrated by Anecdotes, Bio- graphical, Historical, and Elucidatory, of every order of Pulpit Eloquence, from the great Preachers of All Ages. By Rev. E. Paxton Hood.   Two vols. '12mo.- Cloth......;..... *..**.**...$2 00 Lapsed, but not Lost. A Tale of Carthage and the Early Church. By the author of "The Schonberg-Cotta Family." 12mo. Cloth .............. 1 00 La Salle: His Discoveries and Adventures with the Indians of the Northwest. B? John S. C. Abbott. 12mo. Cloth. Fully illustrated .............. 1 25 Layman's Story (A).    Being the Experiences of John Laicus and his Wife in a Country Parish. By Lyman Abbott. 16mo. Cloth.............*  1 00 L e i g h t o n Court. By Henry Kingsley. 12mo. Cloth ..........  1 00 Letters from Egypt. By Mary L. Whately. 16mo. Cloth..........   75 IT lliogstones of Lillingstone (The). By Mrs. Emma J. Worboise. 12mo. Cloth........................ 1 00 Linnet's Trial.    A Novel by the author of "Twice Lost." 12mo. Cloth. 1 00 Little Boots. By Jenny Harri- son. A new edition. 12mo. Cloth.. 1 25 Little Brown Girl (The). By Esme Stuart. 16mo. Cloth ..........  90 Lost Gip and Michael Lorio's Cross. By HesbaStretton. 16mo. Cloth. 1 00 Loring. A Confederate Soldier in Egrypt. By W. W. Loring, Late Colonel in U. 3. Army, Major-General in the Confederate Service, and Fereek Pacha and General in the Army of the Khedive of Egypt. 1 vol., 8vo, cloth. With 47 illustrations..... .......... ....... ... 3 50   26 . DODD, MEAD     & COMPANY'S Uiibke, Wilhelm. Outlines of the History of Art. A new translation from the Seventh German Edition. Edited with Notes, by Clar- ence Cook, in two volumes. Royal 8vo. With nearly 600 illustrations. Cloth, gilt-top .. ............ .... $14 00 Half morocco........... ..  .........19 00 Half Levant ............  .. ...22 50 Full Levant full gilt ...............30 00 Student's Edition. 2 vols., 8vo. In a new style of binding, half roan, gilt top ...... ......        7  50 Half morocco .............1..........2 50 Maberly. The Print Collec- tor. An introduction to the knowledge of Ancient Prints, with suggestions as to the mode of Collecting. Edited with an introduction and notes by Robert Hoe, Jr.  One vol.  Large 8vo. With illustrations.. ...................... 2 50 Macdonald, George.      A  Double Story. 16mo. Cloth .................. 75 MacLeod, Norman, D D. The Starling.  A Scotch Story. 16mo. Cloth. Illustrated.................. 1 00 Character Sketches.  Including "Wee Davie," "Billy  Buttons," etc., etc. 16no.  Cloth.  Illustrated.......... Maid of Stralsund (The). By J. B. De Liefde. An Historical Novel. 12mo.  Cloth ...........I ......... I 00 Main, David     M.   Three Hun- dred English Sonnets. Chosen and Ed- ited with a few  Notes, by David M. -Main, Editor of "A Treasury of English Sonnets."   Limited edition on large pa- per, only 100 copies printed...........11 00 Man-of-War     Life.   By Charles 'Nordhoff. A boy's experience in the United States Navy  during a voyage around the world in a ship of the line. 16mo.  Cloth. Illustrated........... 1 00 Also a  new edition.  Quarto.  nlumi- nated  boards.  From  new  plates. With many illustrations............. 1 50   CA TALOG UE.       27 Manning, Anne. A new edition in new style of bind- ings. 16mo, cloth. Maiden and-Married Life of Mary Pow- ell ...... ....... ................. 1 00 Cherry and Violet ................... 1 00 The Household of Sir Thomas More ... 1 00 The Faire Gospeller, Anne Askew...... 1 00 Jacques Bonneval: A Tale of the Hugue- nots .............................. 1  00 The Spanish Barber: A Tale of the- Bible in Spain ......................... ... 1 00 - - Margaret.     By C. 0. Fraser Tyt- ler, author of I' Jasmine Leigh." 16mo. Cloth........   ................. ... ..  00 Markham, Richard.       Colonial Days. Being Stories and Ballads for Young Americans as recounted by Five Boys and Five Girls in "Aroun-i the      f Yule Log," "Aboard the Mavis," and "On the Edge of Winter." Quarto, with nearly 250 illustrations.  Handsomely bound. Cloth ............... ......... 2 50 History of King Philip's War. 12mo. Cloth . ..............  ........... ... 1 25 Chronicle of the Cid. Edited by Rich- ard Markham. Quarto. Cloth. Illus- trated ..................... ........ 3 00 Marriage Certificates. Printed from a beautiful and chaste steel engrav- ing. On plate paper, per dozen........ 1 00 On bank-note paper, per dozen........ 1 00 Mary Powell, Maiden and          $ Married Life of. The Wife of John Mil- ton. By Anne Manning. 16mo. Cloth. 1 00 Mary, the Handmaid of the Lurd. By the author of "T The Schon- berg-Cotta Family."  16mo. Cloth.... 1 00 Max  Eromer.     A Story of the Siege of Strasburg. . By Hesba Stretton. -16mo.  Cloth ......................... 75   l/7 28. DODD. MEAD    & COMPANYY'S McCoan, J. C.     Egypt as it is, with map. A  new edition. In the Series of Kingdoms of Continental Eu- rope. 8vo. Cloth    ............  $2 00 -McLain, Mary W. Daisy Ward's Work. 16mo. Illustrated ............ 75 Merchant     Vessel   (The).  By Charles Nordhoff. A Sailor Boy's Voy- ages to see the World, 16mo. Cloth. Illustrated ..............  ..  1 00 A   new edition, 4to, from  new L plates, with many illustrations. Boards, illuminated .......................... 1  50 Meye, Henry. - Stone Sculptures of Copan and Quirigua. With descrip- tive text by Dr. Julius Schmidt. With 20 plates. Folio. Half morocco.. ....20 00 Mildred Books (The). By Mar- tha Finley, author of The Elsie Books. Per  vol  ............................ 1  25 The Set of 5 vols. in a box ............. 6 25 Mildred Keith. Mildred at Roseland. Mildred and Elsie. Mildred's Married. Life. Mildred at Home. Mitchell, Lucy     M.   A History of Ancient Sculpture. Imperial 8vo. With 295 wood-engravings in the text by some of the most skilled artists of this country and Europe, and 6 full-page photogravures prepared by Frisch, of r   Berlin.  Elegantly printed, bound in cloth. Gilt tops ........................... 12 50 Half morocco .......  : .. .........18 00 Full morocco ......... ........... 25 00 Selections  from  Ancient Sculpture. Twenty heliotype plates, printed in Berlin, in the highest style of the art  ' from  original negatives taken ex- pressly for Mrs. Mitchell, and intend- ed to accompany her book.  With descriptive text In portfolio. Folio 4 00   CA4TALOGUE.        29 Mimpriss, Robert.      The Gos- pels in Harmony. Having the Texts of the Four Evangelists in parallel col- umns, with Notes, References, and Charts. Pocket edition. Small type. Paper.............................. $0 60 16mo edition. Larger type. Cloth..... 1 25 Miracles of FPaith. A Sketch of the Life of Beate Paulus. By Mary Weithrecht. With an introduction by Charles S. Robinson, D D. 16mo. Cloth. 75 Moffat, Jas. C.,' D D., Professor of Church History in Princeton Theologi- cal Seminary. A Comparative History of Religions. Two vols. 12mo. Cloth. Vol. I.-Ancient Scriptures. Vol. Il.- Later Scriptures. 2 vols. in one...... 2 50 Monasteries -of the      Levant. By Robert Curzon. 12mo. Cloth..... 1 25 Montezuma. By Edward Eggles- ton and Lillie Eggleston Seelye. A volume in the Series of Famous Anmeri- can Indians. 12mb. Illustrated ....... 1 0O Nabob (The).     From the French of Alphonse Daudet, author of "Jack," etc.................................. 1 00 Near to Nature's Heart. By Rev. E. P. Roe. 12mo. Cloth......... 1 50 Nellys Dark    Days.   By Hesba Stretton. 16mo. Cloth..............  75 New Testament. 1st. The Revised Version, in one large 12mo vol., well printed on good paper, and substantially bound. 1 00- 2d. The Revised Version, Red Line Edition, handsomely printed on fine paper, with red line border, and suitably bound............ 1 50   30   DODD, MEAD  & COMPANY'S New   Testament (Continued). - i        The Old and the New Versions Com- pared. 3d. The New Testament, having the Old and the New Versions on opposite and corresponding pages. Large 12mo, 1004 pages, well prizited, and substantially bound.   ....- ..   .. $1 50 4th. The New Testament, Red Line Edition. The Old and the New Versions, as above, handsomely printed, with red line border, and suitably bound.......... 2 50 Niebuhr, Barthold, George. Greek Hero Stories. Translated from the German of Prof. Niebuhr, author of "History of Rome," by Benjamin Hop- pin. With 12 full-page illustrations by Augustus Hoppin. 16mo. Cloth ..... 1 00 Nordhoff, Charles. Man-of-War Life. A new edition, from ' new plates, with an introduction by the author, and many illustrations. Quarto. Boards................... 1 50 The Merchant Vessel. A new edition. A record of personal experience at sea, by the author. 4to, with many illus- trations. Uniform with "Man-of-War Life".............................. 1 50 Man-of-War Life. The Merchant Vessel. Whaling and Fishing. Forming the Sailor Life Series, and re- counting .a boy's experience at sea- in all parts of the world. 16mo. Cloth. Illustrated. Per vol ................ 1 00 Norman Conquest of England. Its History and its Results. By Edward A. Freeman. 6 vols. 8vo. Cloth, gilt tops ..................................20  00 Note-Book of the Bertram Family.  A sequel to Winifred Bertram. By the author of "The SchSnberg-Cotta Family." 12mo. Cloth .............. 1 00   CA TALOG UE.       31 lNorthwest Coast of America. Being results of recent Ethnological Re- searches from the collections of the Roy- al Museum at Berlin. Published by the Directors- of the Ethnological Depart- ment.  Translated from the German. With 13 plates,'five of which are in colors. Folio. Half morocco ........ $20 00 Nothing to Nobody. By Brenda. A Tale of London Life  16mo. Cloth. 75 Occupations of a Retired Life. By Edward Garrett. 12mo. Cloth.... 1 00 Old Back-Room (The). By Jennie Harrison. A new edition. 12iuo. Cloth. 1 2a On Both Sides of the Sea.      A Story of the Commonwealth and tile Restoration. Being a sequel to "The Draytons and Davenants."  By the au- thor of "The Schdnberg-Cotta Famil ." 1 00 Opening of a Chestnut Burr (The). An October Story. By Rev. E. P. Roe. 12mo. Cloth ................ 1 50 Our Fred; or, Seminary Life at Thurston. A sequel to "An Old-Fash. ioned Boy." 12 mo. Cloth .......... 1 25 Painters and Engrav-ers. Bryan's Dictionary of. A new edition from entirely new plates. Revised and brought down to date. To be issued in about 12 parts.  Price, per part, in paper covers ........ ................ 1 75 Papers for Home Reading. By Rev. John Hall, D D.   12mo. With Portrait. ( Cloth .. .................. 1 25 Pattison,  Mrs.   Mark.  The Renaissance of Art in France. With 19 illustrations on steel. 8vo. 2 vols.... 7 50   32   DODD, 2EAD  & .C'OMPA rlT'S Pepys' Diary.    The Diary and Correspondence of Samuel Pepys, Esq., F R.S., from his cypher-in the Pepysean Library, with a life and notes by Rich- ard Lord Braybrooke, deciphered with additional notes by Rev. Mynors Bright, M A., President and Senior Fellow of Magdalen College, Cambridge. 10 vd1s. 8vo. Large paper edition, printed by De Vinne. Limited to 169 copies. Each, copy numbered and signed as follows : On Vellum, 4 copies. On Japan paper, 15 copies. On Holland paper, 150 copies. A. few of the -Holland paper copies only remain unsold. Per set..........$50 00 Library BEdition. 10 vols. 16mo.   Well printed and substantially bound in cloth ...... 15 00 Peter and Polly ; or, Home Life in New England a Hundred Years Ago. By Marian Douglass. 16mo. Cloth....  75 Phelps, Elizabeth Stuart. Gypsy Breynton. Gypsy's Coeusin Joy. Gypsy's Sowing and Reaping. Gypsy's Year at the Golden Crescent. Comprising the Gypsy Stories. 4 vols. 16mo. Cloth. Each ................ 1 00 Pilgrims Progress (The). A new Edition, with forty illustrations by Sir John Gilbert. Printed on tinted paper, tastefully bound, 8vo. Cloth, - gilt edges ............ .......... ^2 00 Cloth, plain edges .................. 1 50 Pocahontas and Powhatan. By Edward Eggleston and Lillie Eggleston Seelye. A volume of the series of ^f -FamousAmerican Indians. 12mo. Cloth. Illustrated .  ....................... ... 1  00 Poems by the author of "The Schonberg-Cotta Family." 18mo. Cloth, red  edges ...... ..................... 1  00   GA TALOG UE.       8 Poetical Works of Elizabeth Barrett Browning.  A new  edition printed from new plates made by De Vinne. 5 vols., 8vo. With portrait of the author. Large paper edition, printed by De Vinne. Limited to 1" copies. Each copy numbered and signed as follows: On Vellum, 2 copies. On Japan paper, 20 copies. On Holland paper, 150 copies. Library Edition. 5 vols. 16mo. Handsomely printed, on fine paper, and bound in cloth, with gilt side and gilt tops ........ $6 25 Practical American Cookery and Household Management, by Juliet Corson. Profusely illustrated. 12mo.. 1 50 Prayers for the Use of Fami- lies. By William -Jay,-D D., author of "Morning and -Evening Exercises," etc. 12mo. Cloth...........1........   1 00 Preaching without Notes The Conditions of Success in. By R. S. Storrs, D D. 12mo. Cloth ................. 1 00 Premiums Paid to Experience. Incidents in my Business Life. By Ed- ward Garrett. 12mo. Cloth ........... 1 00 Print Collector (The). By Ma- berly. An introduction to the knowl- edge of Ancient Prints, with suggestions as to the mode of collecting. Edited, with an introduction and notes, by Robert Hoe, Jr. One vol. Large 8vo. With il- lustrations ..... .....................* 2 50 Pulpit Eloquence of the Nine- teenth Century. By Rev. Henry C. Fish, D D. 8vo. Cloth. With supplement containing additional discourses........ 3 00 Pyle, ]Howard. The Lady of Shalott. By A. Tennyson. Decorated in colors by Howard Pyle. Quarto. Richly bound. Cloth. Gilt................. 3 00 Questions of the Day. By Rev. John Hall, D D. 12mo. Cloth........ 1 25 ;                      25   84   DODD, MEAD & OOMPANY'S Races of European Turk e y (The). Their History, Condition, and Future Prospects. By Rev. Edson L. Clark, member of the American Oriental Society. (In the series of Kingdoms of Continental Europe.) With map. 8vo. Cloth ...........................  $2 00 Raphael and the Villa Farn- esina. By Charles Bigot. Translated from the French by Mary Healy. With fifteen engravings of Raphael's master- pieces by Tiburce de Mare. The edition is limited to 150 copies, all numbered and signed.   Quarto, uncut ................ .. ...........15 00 Rawlinson, Prof. George.      The Five Great Monarchies of ithe Ancient  Eastern World. Three volumes. 8vo. /     - Extra gilt tops, maps, and nearly 600 il- lustrations. Cloth  .......  .  9 00 Half morocco ............. ........1  16 50 The Sixth Great Monarchy (Parthia). r         1 vol. 8vo. With maps and illus-  trations. Cloth*- . Gilt top.... . .  00 Hslf morocco..................... 5 50 The Seventh Great Monarchy (The ":          SasSanean or new Persian Empire). 2 vols. With maps and illustra- tions. Cloth. Gilt tops .......... 6 00 Half morocco.....................11 00 The History of Ancient Egypt. 2 vols. 8vo. With numerous illus- tions. Cloth. Gilt tops .......... 6 00 Half morocco........... .........11 00 Students' Edition.    Printed from same plates as fine edition. 2 vols., 8vo ........... .......... ..... 3 00 -- Students' Edition  of Rawlin- son's Works, printed from  the same plates as the fine edition, but on thinner paper and with less margin. As follows' The Ancient Monarchies, 6 vols. in 5. Ancient Egypt, 2 vols. The set of 7 vols., substantially bound -in cloth, in box ........... 9 00   CAl IOALOGUE.       85 Ravenshoe. A Novel. By Henry Kingsley. 12mo. Cloth............. .$1 00 Red Eagle and the Wars with the Creek Indians of Alabama. By George Cary Eggleston. A volume of the series of Famous American Indians. 12mo. Cloth. Illustrated ............. 1 00 Relation   of Civil 1  Law   to Ecclesiastical Polity, Property, and Dis- cipliiie. By Hon. Wm. Strong, LL D., Justice SupremE Court, UI S. 12mo. Cloth....... .......  ................ 1  25 Renaissance in Italy    (The). By Jacob Burckhardt. 2 vols. 8vo ....... 7 50 Renaissance of Art in 3Prance. By Mrs. Mark Pattison. With 19 illus- trations on steel. 2 vols. 8vo......... 7 50 Riess, W.    See Ancon. Riordan,   Roger.    A  Score of i1     .  Etchings. Twenty examples by the most celebrated of foreign etchers. With de- scriptive text. Folio ............ 15 00 French Etchers examples of the etched work of Corot, Jacquemart, Ballin, Veyrassat, Le Page, Chauvel, etc. 20 plate ... ..........................15 00 Robinson, J. Ferns in their Homes and Ours. With eight chromo-litho- graphs of rare ferns, and many other plates and illustrations. 12mo. Cloth. 1 50 Roe, Rev. Edward P. New editions in new volumes. Per vol . .................. ............ 1  50 Barriers Burned Away. -What Can She Do? The Opening of a Chestnut Burr. Near to Nature's Heart. From Jest to Earnest. .. A Knight of the XIX. Century. A Face Illumined. A Day of Fate. ,: Without a Home. 1iv   36   DODD, HMEAD & COMPANY'S Roe, Rev. Edward P. (ont'd). His Sombre Rivals. 12mo.- Cloth. ..$1 50 A Young Girl's Wooing. 12mo. Cloth. 1 50 An Original Belle. 12mo. Cloth ...... 1 50 Driven back to Eden. 12mo. Cloth... 1 50 *** Sets of these Popular Novels sup- plied in boxes. Birthday Mottoes, from the writings of E. P. Roe. With portrait and illustra- tions  Cloth.................. . 1 00 Success with Small Fruit: .3quare 8vo. Beautifully illustrated .............. 5 00 Rose (The). A Treatise on its Cul- tivation, Varieties, etc. By H. B. Ell- wanger, of Mount Hope Nurseries,      - Rochester. 16mo. Cloth...... ...... 1 25 Runming   the   Gauntlet.    A Novel. ByEdmundYates. 12mo. Cloth. 1 00 Sac red    Tabernacles of the- Hebrews (The). With 50 full-page illus- trations. By Rev. E. -E. Atwater, D D. 8vo.  Cloth........................... 2  50 Sakoontala; or, The Lost Ring, -from the Sanscrit of Kalidasa. By Monier Williams. 12mo.............. Satterlee.    Cradle Songs of Many Nations. By R. L. Herman and Walter Satterlee. (See Cradle Songs.) S&honberg - Cotta F a m i 1y (Chronicles of the), as told by two of themselves. A   story of Luther and his times. By Mrs. Andrew Charles. 12mo.   Cloth ........................ 1  00 Cheap Edition. 150 pages, quarto, paper, 25 Schmidt, Dr. Julius.     See Stone Sculptures.   -  Sculpture. A History of Ancient Sculpture. By Lucy M. Mitchell. Im- perial 8vo. With 295 wood-engravings in the text by some of the most skilled artists of this country and Europe, and 6 full-page photogravures prepared by Frisch, of Berlin. Elegantly printed, bound in cloth, gilt tops ..............* 12 50 Half morocco..... ... .................18 00 Full morocco  ......... .............. 25 00   ATA'LOGUcE.       87 Selections     from  Ancient Sculpture. Twenty heliotype plates, printed in Berlin, in the highest style of the art from original negatives taken expressly for Mrs. Mitchell, and intend- ed to accompany her book. With de- Iscriptivetext. In portfolio. Folio.....$4'00 Scripture Manual (The). Alpha- betically and systematically arranged. By Charles Simmons. Designed to facilitate the finding of proof texts. 12mo. Cloth.................... 1 75 Seelye, Julius H., D D. Presi- dent of Amherst College.  Christian k Missions. Lectures delivered at Yale Theological Seminary. 12mo. Cloth.. 1 00 Selections from the Poetry of Robert Browning. With an introduc- tory note by Richard Grant White. Printed on linen paper by De Vinne. With an etched portrait by Ritchie. 12mo. Cloth ........................ 2 00 A large paper edition on Japan paper limited to 70 copies, bound in vellum. Selections from   the Writings of the author of "The Schonberg-Cotta Family." Large 12mo. Cloth........ 1 75 Shakespeare's   M o r al 1 s.  By Arthur Uilman. 12mo. Cloth, gilt top. 1 50 Sheridan, Richard    Brinsley. The Dramatic Works of. A new edition printed from type, and limited to 350 copies, on Japan and Holland paper. 3 vold. Sets on Japan paper.......... 25 00 Sets on Holland paper ............... 15 00 Short History    of Art.    By Julia B. de Forest. 8vo. With 253 il- lustrations, numerous charts, a full in- dex giving the pronunciation of the proper names by phonetic spelling, and a glossary............ -............ 2 00   38   DODD, MEAD & COMPANY'S Signing   the  Contract, and What it Cost. A Novel. By Martha Finley, author of "Wanted, a Pedi- gree," etc I 12mo. Cloth..... ....... $1 25 Simmons, Charles.    The Script- ure Manual.  Alphabetically and sys- tematically arranged. Designed to facil- itate the finding of proof texts. 12mo. Cloth ................................ 1  75 Si'nms, William    Gilmore. Cas- sique of Kiawah. A Colonial Romance. 1 00 Song   without  Words    (The). By the author of the "' Schonberg-CEotta  Family." 16mo. Cloth............. Songs  from   the  Dramatists. Edited with   notes and biographical sketches by Robert Bell. 1 vol., small 8vo, printed from new type by Francis Hart & Co ............ 1 50 A large paper edition, limited to 100 copies, on hand-made paper. Sonnets.    Three  Hundred  Eng- lish Sonnets. Chosen and edited with a few notes by David M. Main, Editor of "A Treasury of English Sonnet." Limited edition on large paper. Only , 100 copies printed, 75 numbered from 1 to 75 for America.............. . 11 00 Soudan. The Wild Tribes of the Soudan. An account of travel and sport, chiefly in the Base country, being per- sonal experiences and adventures dur- ing three winters spent in the Soudan. By F. L. James, M A., F R.G S. 8vo. With 3 maps and 40 full-page illustra- tions, engraved for the book from photo- graphs taken on the spot. Ha dsomely printed and bound.  Cloth .. ..... 5 00 Spanish   Barber (The).  A   Tale of the Bible in Spain. 16mo. Cloth... 1 00 Spiders.    The  Structure   and Habits of. Illustrated with numerous woodcuts. By J. H. Emerton. 12mo. Cloth.............................  . 1  50   .5   -           Cl CATTALOG UE.      89 Sprague, Isaac.     Wild flowers of America. With many colored plates. Now completed in 25 parts at $1.50 per part. Bound in one volume. Cloth.. 40 00 Half morocco, gilt edges................45 00 Standish, Miles, the Pilgrim Captain. By John S. C. Abbott. 12mo. Cloth. Fully illustrated.............. 1 25 Starling (The).   A Scotch Story. By Norman McLeod, D D. A new edi- tion. 12mo. Cloth. Illustrated ...... 1 00 Stoddard, William      Osborne. Esau Hardery.   A novel of American Life................................. 1  00 Stone Sculptures of Oopan and QuiriguE. By Heinrich Meye. With descriptive text by Dr. Julius Schmidt. With 20 plates. Folio. Half morocco.. 20 00 Stories    from   the  Classics. By Alfred J. Church, Professor  at University College, London. Each Pith 20 illustrations in color, from designs by Flaxman and others. 12mo. Cloth. Per vol .......    .......  ... 1  50 Stories from Homer.- Stories from Virgil. Stories from the Greek Tra- gedians. Stories from   Herodotus. Stories from   Livy. Roman Life in the Days of \ ,DCicero. Sketches drawn from His Let- ters and  Speeches ..................... The Story of the Persian War from Herodotus  .............. Storrs, Richard S., D D. Con- ditions of Success in Preaching Without Notes. Three lectures delivered before the Students of the Union Theological Seminary, New York. 12mo.  Cloth... 1 00   40   DODD, MEAD & COMPAiNY'    S Strength and Beauty. Discus- sions for Young Men. By Mark Hop- kins, D D. 12mo. Cloth.............$1 25 Stretton, Hesba. Bede's Charity. 12mo. Cloth......... 1 00 David Lloyd's Last Will. 12mo. Cloth. 1 00 Hester Morley's Promise. 12mo. Cloth. 1 00 The King's Servants. 16m6. Cloth.... 1 00 Lost Gip and Michael Lorio's Cross. 16mo. Cloth ...........  ........ 1 00 Cassy. 16mo. Cloth ................ 1 00 Max Kromer. A Story of the Siege of Strasburg. 16mo. Cloth...........  75 Nelly's Dark Days. 16mo. Cloth.....  75 The Wonderful Life. - A Life of Christ for Young and Unlearned Readers. 16mo. Cloth.......... ...................... 1 00 Brought Home. A powerful temperance story. 16mo. Cloth................ 1 00 The Crew of the Dolphin. 16mo. Cloth. 1 00 Through a Needle's Eye. 12mo. Cloth. 1 00 In Prison and Out. 12mo. Cloth..... 1 00 Cobwebs and Cables. 12mo .......... 1 00 Carola. 16mo. Cloth ............... 1 25 Strong, -Hon. Win., LL D., Jus- tice Supreme. Court, U. S. The Rela- tions of Civil Law to Ecclesiastical Pol- ity, Property, and Discipline. 12mo. Cloth ................................ 1  25 Stuart, Esme.     The Little Brown Girl. 16mo. Cloth .............. ..  90 Stiibel, A. See Ancon. Stuyvesant,   Peter, and     the Early Settlement of New York. By John S. C. Abbott. Fully illustrated. 12mo. Cloth.. 1 25 ,     Success   with Small   PFruits. By E. P. Roe. With nearly 100 beauti. ful illustrations. Square 8vo .......... 5 00 Sunlight  through    the  lMist. Lessons from the Lives of Oreat and Good Men. 16mo. Cloth............   75   CATALOGUE.         41 Syrian Home Life.     By Rev. H. H. Jessup, D D. Illustrated. 16mo. Cloth ............... .... .. .- ..-$0 90 Tales from Many Sources. A series of volumes containing short stories selected chiefly from the English Magazines. Well printed and tastefully bound. Price in cloth, per volume.... 75 4 volumes now published. Other vol- umes to follow. Talmage, T. De     Witt, D D. Every-Day Thoughts. 12mo.. Cloth... 1 50 Tecumseh    and  the  Shawnee Prophet. By Edward Eggleston and Lillie Eggleston Seelye. A volume of the series of "Famous American In- dians." Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth.... 1 00 Theology of the New Testa- ment. A Hand-Book for Bible Students. By J. J. Van Oosterzee, D D., one of the authors of Lange's Commentary. Trans- lated by Maurice J. Evans. 12mo. Cloth. 1 50  (X Through   a Needle's Eye.    By EHesba Stretton. 12mo. Cloth........ 1 00 Titian (Life of). By Crowe and \ Cavalcaselle. .With Illustrations. 2 vols., 8vo ..... ................. .. 7 50 Towner, Ausburn.     After Long Years. A Story of the Early Days of the Republic. 12mo. Cloth.......... 1 00 Tunis.  The Land and -the People. By the Chevalier de Hesse-Wartegg. With 22 illustrations. 12mo. Cloth.. 1 75 Tytler, a. C. Fraser.    Margaret. 16mo. Cloth.........1.... * ....... 1 00 I Uncle John'  s Plowoer ath- erers. A Companion for the- Woods and Fields. By Jane G. Fuller. 16mo. Cloth ................ .....     90   42   DODD, MEAD & COMPANY'S Van Oosterzee, J. J., D D. VThe Theology of the New Testament. A Hand-book for Bible Students. Trans- lated by Maurice J. Evans. 12mo. Cloth.$1 50 Victory Deane. A Novel By Cecil Griffith. 12mo .................. 1 00 Victory    of the   Vanquished (The). A Story of the First Century. By the author of "The Schonberg-Cotta Family."   12mo. Cloth .............. 1 00 'Vineta.    From  the German of E. Werner, author of "At a High Price ".. 1 00 Wanted, a Pedigree.     A  Novel. By Martha Finley. Large 12mo. Cloth. 1 25 Wars.    The Minor Wars of the United States. A Series of Popular Histories, uniform with the Pioneer and Patriot and American Indian Series. Each 1 vol. 12mo. Fully illustrated and attractively bound in cloth. Per vol ................................ 1.2 1 25 The War of 1812. By Rossiter John- son. The Old French War. By Rossiter Johnson. The War with Mexico.   By H. O. Ladd. King  Philip's War.  By Richard Markhan. , s Other volumes to follow. Washington, George, and the Revolutionary War.  By John   S. C. Abbott. 12mo. Cloth. Fully illustrated. 1 25 Watchwords for the Warfare of Life. Selected from the Writings of Luther. By the author of "The Schln- berg-Cotta Family." 12mo. Cloth.... 1 00 Weithreoht, Mary.     Miracles of Faith.  A Sketch of the Life of Bete Paulus. With an Introduction by Charles S. Robinson, D D. 18mo. Cloth...... 76   si * ' - {  A CTALOG UE.        48 t Werner, E. From' the German. "At a High Price," "Vineta," etc..... $1 00 Whaling   and  Fishing.    By Charles Nordhoff. A sailor boy's voy- age on a whaler. 16mo. Cloth. Illus- trated.. . . . .  ............. ... . 1  00 What Can She Do? By Rev. E. P. Roe. 12mo. Cloth.........   1 50 Whately, Mary L. Letters from Egypt. 16mo. Cloth. Illustrated...   75 B        'fl lWhat We Believe. In the words of Scripture. Paper .................. 08 Wild   Flowers of America. Beautifully illustrated with colored plates. By Isaac Sprague. Text by Prof. Goodale of Harvard. Now com- plete in 25- parts, at $1.50 per part. Bound in one volume, cloth ........... ,40 00 Half morocco ............. ........... 45 00 Winifred    Bertram,  and  the World She Lived in. By the author of "The Schfnberg-Cotta Family." 12mo. Cloth............................... 1 00 Without   a Home.    A Novel. By E. P. Roe, author of "Barriers Burned Away," "A Day of Fate," etc., etc. 12mo ............. 1       50 Woltmann,   Prof. Alfred, and Dr. Karl Woermann.  History of Paint- ing-Ancient, Early Christian, and Medi- seval. From the German of Prof. Alfred , Woltmann and Dr. Karl Woermann. Translated and edited by Prof. Sidney Colvin, of Cambridge University. One large 8vo.  Over 400  illustrations. Cloth............................... 7 50 Half morocco, .... .............  10 50 Half Levant, or Russia ............... .1 50 Tree calf, or faull Levant ................... 15 00 Also in preparation, A History of .Mod- ermn Paintingj by the same authors, which with the present volume will make this the most complete work on the subject. 3   "   DODD, OJNA Tn & COMPANY. Women of Christendom.       By the author of "The SchOnberg-Cotta Family." Being Sketches of the Lives of the Notable Christian Women of History. 12mo. Cloth ............... 1 00 Women of the Arabs. By Rev. H. H. Jessup, D D., Missionary in Syria. 12mo. Cloth. With 15 full-page illus- trations ........1.................. 125 Wonderful. Life (The). A Life' of Christ, for Young and Unlearned Readers. By Hesba Stretton. 16mo. Cloth................................ 1 00 TWorboise, Mrs. Emma J. The Lillingstones of Lillingstone. A new edition. 12mo. Cloth............... 1 25 World's Laconics (The); or, The Best Thoughts of the Best Authors, in Prose and Poetry. Compiled by Tryon Edwards, D D. 12mo. Cloth ......... 1 00 Yates, Edmund.    Broken to Har- ness. 12mo. Cloth\ ................. 1 00 Running the Gauntlet. 12mo. Cloth. 1 00 Young Girl's Wooing (A). 'A novel by E. P. Roe, author of "Barriers Burned Away," etc. 12mo ..........  1 50   -  c.    
         
       
   
