
    ----CITATION----
        Robinson, J. H. (John Hovey) (b. 1825). Mountain Max, or, Nick Whiffles on the Border .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7617
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Mountain Max, or, Nick Whiffles on the Border 
            
               . Y   f. Vr2 j
f  ,

.  )UN J3A  1N

.4  -

f
''  4
, Z,
,
';
, .,,

,_

TALE OP. "Ti{E BIJSRW![AUKE R9 IN

iY
f                                f
1
3
r    '

t
art
1
'   r? e  1
t,
i,     7
i
i

J    1
!
,i
, l1

irk, kiffltan tht uEIa.

R
lp                   'T X' V      Lx"      J,
F"z                   , ,4" 1   7
't    4

.e er      ti ai1 ", ~{
y
.L 
sA +  f     -
n~     Syr. ._

r

MtSO1.

j,


tr3      .; ,                 _    . r-Mr. ~  "' ' r, (r. f 1"I.  . -  -  !    "   4'  e  t"'f                                                                            ,
All
sr                                                                                             /
''  z                                                                                                              !                                x
,                                          +KM
YOUNTAIN                                                                 ,
MAX: o1                      - '
w       h*ff Ito- - oil                          tht t,  .  .
1
r fly                               .             ',   5',   z
"     ,        ,,  -:,'   Vie.,  ^  '                                                                                              ;
y k ylY",
t                                                    CHAPTER         I                         and toilsome marches.           A  belt of black loathe
'                                                                                            was buOLART.  ckled about his waist, but it supiporeei
dwelbr;; to which attention is noirdirect- neither the deadly revolver nor the hunter'
e.1 st ocl on the west bank of the Missouri Itiv-              Iuife.   The strung                        d.' 1  g  1861  and  . Tl  er was u me  He smile,
"                                                                     cr, n; d  was, in                   for many      previous     faintly, and     made a     eoniliatory     gesture,     In
cif Etna i°ess, in thc: year V6111                                                    1'-.11'S, occupied b " one Robcrt ICinmoutl r.          The     stantly   obeying                         she   brought
.   r,.r.,;                     .                                                                            imp 11 t   1"  rf,   '  '; . "  "'  fl (it 11'liich  il's  her  I sea
man h ,d chosen for a home was             glees                        eaepted                       r
of water and In                                  c  (f
Fig OIted  on  a  bluff that                                                                         it to him      t   ,
stretched     like a wall     ceived                                            l    1
it eagerly, and       drank     fluff iedly.      1,,
the mr r
,                                                                                                         gin   of the river for it distance           cooling    draugl t restored      his will and self-lros
rt for tlhe    otxt)y. rn Disrr.',e4        w York,                                   of several miles, broken on           he surface into i Yp  ' .', ., . , ";,  t  to a  session , but his first movement was not c~ let,
sicn of hills and t 1 vales , rtesentierS to the fated to re assn'
,        ~ t',' i°"+,.R..-r ..l."++rrgs..rr.zfi   ..,. . , r b-:     .  , ,  w ;                                                                                            3'           Y: f     he closer
;                                                                                       ci   -%,e6  bold' and $ ri king outlines                        the door ap r"           lie I II S'ra! . '3  '  ,  r  ; . , ti5.1P y .ey,.xb, Fr4F , y, .,,  £  ad
,'.                 house tivti   accessible
," y   ~  l  is         a s              byaX           at wound              -im   pursued                        lie said.
eccentric                                                                    m
, ,# ..;°' '",, K.r:t ,,,  , rr "A .$               y ',_ ; =,v "  -k,= ;    :                                   mounds       also by nu-      was surprised      and beset wlt1elinzrmed, an
' V 11017 "IV'                                                 have ha i a terrible race for                             d
tat, '+athe  and  by  %rater"  It waspr(p                                                     t
r life.,' Had the treacle
®r:,, "+,
'r , { t h ,y   '  ,  4  'q  1    +.' l" ,,e.. , Y3, , n                                               - n  rt1 r by a thick    belt of eotto         e .bus                            t
f,            ;,dl'," '4,,,  ,,;,,  x,;, ;.;_; =y-:        ,~ , r                                                    n-           hou:tc.s been       u      f    "'   ,  '',
111,o1':e the force of winter winds and           distanced    theru ' t    o ut t;foo , I  o'       ;
r                                                                                                                                                                             b
' ,    .,  , y N ,f . ; .,k.  z  £ry q ,fi y4     '       , r ,.  .                                        a                                   pllc  were                  /k
y                                                                                                                                                                                       y          moanteel, a'l
ry"R                                                                            o in S1lmrncr         ,1Frlc, orn-    acquainted      .1          '                          wlj4
ir t' ,,,}  . "'",,FS.,.   i,.'4'T  " ,h F1, t'{..,, ,'',}  -tit  1 4~''"y,   i^'" {  ,.  aR't   1+i  71   !                           t t h ,e      path 'PkN%'Py  f iN llf   j,,  i  e,""."' ",,,',  ] it  151  if
f                                                                                                                                                             Z
eluste'ling   tines, green      bushes     I am   a stranger in this this         and
,'   ,, ct  ,g                                                        c:t   ~                 7th                                                                   part of the
l" ; ,                                                                lt f~feel fields                                                    (1                                                   i
)1                                         to trust to "                    e c   I
g                    myborn. instincts, though i   '',.\ '" t,' , ,Cr"^-1 t  ,lh~}-%j r¢a} 1','rMt. -b,   r   "'r'FF I.!'i F-.,,  }' l ' t.  to  th
" i%'i}'1  2  f  .',   ,-r  1  S,  p    -~  t,    l'  #  i  ,  ',tp°y  t;..y  ,;   ,t  .  ,"  1  filled  a      d  Col  ,
p an           feted the landseape"          woods  ,   i  ds and mountains        I ate
+  t,       t   ,x,'       , '                      ,,                                       e   .                                                                                              still     ots
tit     Fse cf a    older                                                                                   ftll   ed,
A S+ M.1  ;py F'  '.l"'g. fy   .' .F''  r ' '   + i9r   ,.kt;i r ,                 cl      ,    golden day in the nionth of            The chase is not         t
"y ,   j; j,  l+ '  }:1'P      y,  r ~i'gi4 .},F^ '"  i   y, , ..., .' sf,;r' nr.^  ', .,r1i"fa,'  ,l' f                                                                    ,"e  ended.     Hide me, an        s:
,, R   6:           w  ,  Y':,  ,6y',., ,  r  r'               r.  , "  a           (  i                                                                                                              II   v,°
I,:                                               the first,  "enr of the great American              me lrr
V'7 F',rj $. r, ("1 +11   RIF  'ly  kr f ,p,'' la .. W,.  1     Clltri Iflnmoutlr'',cldest daughter of               The
f .                              . a           1 ltcl't              b    1"                                                         voice stranger's,  c  as elo  ue
+ya y           k r   +,      r              a k r              ' +        . °                 Kinnioutll            sin                                                           C   1        (    nt, and his
. F    "t:  '   '_. '' {t 'r                                            ,y        gul, r coincidence of        manner 'd  v,  ;..  lUj-. t  c earnest and convincing .  listened
; r ;,  .,'     Y    +, tt  , f " j ; +a ., ",;M,   t:;pi, 3 ,'';!F l' ,1"Y,},,,F  r 's,"y"^.Ir " k'R   , was, for a halt-hour, t r, the sole o c-           both t                                Cte list
e 1,        th '                                          c-                 ergo
yg w~, %4 tpiF ;= ,,fyn yk,1p,', ,1,  ,ht'  t, ",  x  ,   ,"                , 1,t'of   c House oli                                                         r and interest.      Her cheek      1, r
u;;  ' .e, ;;  kr 1; h,";j y, L  d,-;ailpr .Jkip}i  +;s;rY,:  Y''. ;A'a 1' ;   eit, y ' 'r'1'  2.,  }i gfr,","       the Bluff.     During that       white as the petals of a lily          S'llwn       i-    CW
fait',
TL ,f                                                                             1, £tlr             Ile p                                                                       1 She was t  in event  )cued  that was
;tl, ;r , ,,, ~rr, ""''t; . ,.;e, '.r,.+ ;Y '  . -k,  ,  ''  ^ , - '1: ,.'' ;' f,  b,            ,.mrri l                    as destineil     and the, fugitive felther. beauty.       Ic h
have a     dete                                                                                             oiled inuch
,     7                 iiiig   influence    on   her life.    from'     e1, p)
r.\t   1     , .r { a   '"1r','i°l,"r,"r   "lr Y p""  i  r ,e    ,lw, ,'t'yi.tlr  "t£il,'., "',  1'11 Uoe  dd                                                       ity    he   drew    auspICI Its    ntlreli 'lt S
G     r    a                                                                                                             .'
4c ic      ', ° "f 'i  ~i8ye"O5'FM  :  "nF' it' .r': ,' P, r  ,YV ,",;r.   iarr  a-,ty..  ,,,' .,.  ,  w, s sU  enl  thrown 0   en   an'
,                                                        ,ktr.aa:R                                                                    and a tall' fro
her tender eves         there was prophecy
ttt  ,                                                                                 y1U1r stro     in   hot with    exertion,                                          trte,                                  it,
7    fl             d  i  ',p t b   ' {  i,,,°  iy"' ' _' 1   ,                  de rn1                                   )
;i.A              F'' FM                                                                                                          and   11 nting     her attentive  lt        1e
h'c             a     lir:'y  1  k;     ~,                                                                                                                        .
t        a           Ik           1               Perspiration       st eaI'rpecl  from    his      The    words    of the                         .
;         r,               r                                                                                                   e stronger rangy,       n     a 1'"
wr  4,,. a'^r r,"r    ~s'r@ ',    1,d     t,.:                                   1'OIY  t!111  lC  leaved   it                      of r4  ,  v+  ,   s.= :;t3   ',,  ,"..'}"",{ t  r  ~1$?,;  ,  "   ,, r ts  ~at; ,  Hide AI 3,ra7ee  y'r1r  t' sy2,  Zfin - Al at  z,  ears  LL
.1N ''                    " tit' for 'Ott  Ol'f                                                          me, and sAVB me, t         Where r       Il l
L  t,'                                                                                                                                                                                           sir(r
u t ;r rd,  M:C   ,1'."a i''1 !  I  '??'                                              I ,                                               sic hide hinta, .. Il"0              1
I'r'   4 p,    _%{"      1    S.  , rY,  'C'.':r, .a1 '  ,. a  !FS l;p ,{; 'f "[ ,},YA,',  _ ?.{".   , 7, .1 F e in alarm, titre lool.ed won alei                                                   hill)?
}                                                                                                                       r
a     ",{, ¢ ;,'  1°k  .'-1C' +'"  ;'roA{.,/F'  Xf, ,uT... '';KaW + 5 't'"41ky'ev4 v. e                                                    m   y   hesiEntecl     She tried vain       to think o
i.,5d;r z v+, "i                                Intrll icr" tvhi   w         F                                                                          of a      a
i ed his raisin                                                     ply
71
,                                                                                                                 P                    forehcarl,    of coact alment
y"£'ibr't'    '  .'  ~";S t  "'74i   1,4i'1  " rte,  'w'  : i'",1':I,: ;r' '   s7.,, ,  a   .f.^ ,,y '', RM  ,'t  t 'v  n,  "  tried  to  s  le'11  1
; ,,  , vdili  (   r,  lnl tU  ,' r  }t  'ri tZf                     t                        or
,a .,              sr   ,, ,..:..                         Itv   ry                                few       )cats,      He noticed      her embarrassment, ,  .,,,Iq. '..;.;,;   t",:'~,,r .  two g  1  then mutely,  and said Erg .;  u!a  f  S S t 1h  '  6,. 4   t  yg4: ?,   ,  ib,,  .,u  at 1aell other  The  Li
ism'                    t   Y'+'ll                                                                                     man          FCrlr   not.      Yoor, l'ir Iditess, shall g a rt(
:             sa ,  ,r  '!    . , ;    ,    a, '1,= ti  ;,,,  ,  ,'  }  .a, N,"          1 a Sun-tanned yet Intuidsomc I"lce, a sl a1                                                 ,                    not t;  t  ,  ,  !" a,'  k  r.:,
,,      ,5                                                                                                                         e1v   almse      nor
ti      , ,:,                                                                                                                                              Bed   to  the tletr                anrsrif
fi Jf     ,tic"nfr3,  aYA  ,rk.,'w.   t 4        , ,fl,.  d'e.',u.,Lt                                               ffnl'  1h            Tel!       1  r     .                                                -

JL 1l, RAFID SMc dir.Z' to Act
Fir
t 19;c "#h'.7 yR    t   ,i  i M1 SN"  , "E at  S V  vr ; "; w }j1. S1 ?S W   :?.:
Tu lap
R ,R  !,ijkzi,' t- si  S


I

A

's301T AiNIX MAX; P,~'KXiIiC.O  fEi3~)R

Cri.    T i  not the will thact is wanutiog, but i thres'y' a, nd s he wr back agkin. wih a Ia.
the wa1y  fJl)eowe' net where to put you.  i(o r mr in hen land1. IIer cheds wcere now Fius11
pursueris uc j  neo be easiv dccelnpaed ;t  w  e1, m  h  en1 s  i-h d  th -et ina
nren eva it ssille hiw;unag place.l Hwe ar'  t I          } rm punnn hd1ooilg ii n t  0'
clt skiiut, von w ill be disceoveredis, and dragged  Ic sid usi  V
Ler!I to ci rniL a death.  i would  esne that sad  Sen rai"  v-. wer5el -1ars,
i' --a sle."
"T'ime flies fast !" exclaimncd the f tive,  'Put  r t a   1,ilYt" naled ( orepy,
My  bn miewm       onhe liere. llii          1 I      nonII  Fi W'  ii  it
l ci tie  istait "latter of hoofs. Tcre i  it  ' IlooksiIi hsmea  mboardI art ition,'csi
on instmt to e wasted.  ow or never. T hre  eC  t o  'eao g pidily ; "It it is nat it
should e   mi nook or cranny, clos t  "i(est, it. aipeans. Bet"en this aid the aij ' i1
ih s hincli I  so find teIporary     a mnei'tdnsemif  -onm t here il spacesufliCient to conceal
All, it I lhad may' good ru'le, !wouldO il a Isk ;il. Yo, mm oist -ine-oa onet',?1thi ovb-t
of a c0an                              I Y 'iu shall then nt the slice between the i i
lIe tl res up his loty stature, and his ,t1, is Lm Ewats, w1hen I will re ii'' thesboar i, in
es aishe d iif iaince.                  rmly. is, and setun thosc art ieh1:- of l ees to i
Tire ws U mnmentiary       o       n    boos, as they re  when we coni. in .
- iiit .1 She hisokel u-ilid                      ab                             c
bhe strheanaiger. IIr gazler- it'ha                v ttcriut0iny in  e epeetd'o
srief space, hti in th:it ime Iher ofirem iI- IThe s'ut)1 ingev c'ughit the h 1na' frn C, :
itoiis assiii'euht lice' whit lie was. Ills noie Ietad,   hi d l n hniIe shei w s  e.  ekaii I iii
iis bromn s yet cemome latuce, his enmlaidbig mounriit  a chair, e,mmlii encid1  utir , ifi'
figure, -sa ita'-, iiiipe'rssei lhfer favorably. She I board skilfully anid cansluIiv vet with "'5
pointto nam staircae, and sai:d          erty equal to the eerency.. He its-rted e
Cu UiP "-"                               elavws of the lainntue ;' he -i e  sli; h e i '
e mannr iispire con lence.  l'sanecded nails came out . creankiiig n id emoi eii ig:
no second+e  buliig. lieo spran g up tih staira, tie tenitacty of wood and iron kimgii  oveCiw,
and the young girl il owed ligihtlh aln qumahi.i:  the loosened bood fil otI sd, aid wa iei
lie c: pie I ini the -upper hall; Clari ssed hi in rmve i
;opne iila  oor.T ti   ma in green clooe  (lari liii nit  n eiielastd ts tre in's i
in.  an emis eiichk  were sufliusedl; it w.a ler s'  iac f enrihiseen iners biiee t eI I littwo o iisi
aiepitgct'is(imi ulin, er-withlli ;iit and ling thm enough, butt iincemsfu-
Slit1II take sat   ryctha' r hem,'Ie as:1:d, a nb 'nrrt'o for  a mainii to r, naainlongi ii.
ausieg on tle' rt noJ'siiiel.                   i i'.irec einttei uS feel eicme up the Id
Mas it lirva nceteary. anseired  ir  ima iterrile amoiiiiitm  i  ie
y --"iii                y  vrP~'5 [_w~r' i i ~e  '  5 1i  (,,i  '  il~ )C'   S ' ,(( tin' ji no  O Sii  'T
el -iti'ttnrCn ' entered the room as rcs''eveenly ,l(tob ear the' pituersube-csti i   ii' ' .
c i h    i'e  irii'itia ii g a samitly sirme.  It T he fugin,  t  di ii inn  ite sp:( tae 'Asin'
eas, nit i time to midutlge i in seituentsii1. ihe{; ing
thuil of iron fet reaclel 'his ears, amit l his eyes  " hanti, -denr y iri'--a Iibo Etnnd  ihtnti
railnsquisitively around the apartment imi seich Then a new donti seized lim.e  " 1 f '''m
,f the exp'eted hidinlg-pjlace, but saw but ;itn aicant rlejace and re ml the binid,'' lie n(ii
walls and piictures,.and evidences of tail' o- a usy'xiec  ..
eupaticy.                                       " '' I w: i i semon dispeltha flntr e anr''wcred (tle I.
" 1here is a closet," sal Clari, pointing ati a '' tie t ruling Pi Eso ine', a eli twgiilii t  oi  -d
door ; " but it will, not (10. In Cases efio thi  Ret' - t piush 1i trick wit hout d fil ty ;  chelite
kjlh, closets are always sea-chedi first,'  tie opeling ; mii'd now you ii  mis be dark wih1-i
Sha-- crossed the i etamber, while the ftagive m  wi my' '  vice etili te  n sun off. '
wcatchd 'e-' iiVrnem)nItii'lii with aieeius eyic. iivfitt  thic wall is ires n. I ese ai ti
She pauseel hbe-reis ai).in wall agetinus wi li  thin  heblo -'ofI the lyi liitome tiecho1 in our  0 1111
articles o  a;.'p0alh  w're hanging by loks(ts tosmisbs I elteas aofI inside I''
.  Clari 'eioved'e I  isvterli of these, ui contimd  Cmi  s toecs we, tee  he firitie,
to look thoughstfuilyl t the watll.  l'h imwe oit  sisetes of a muffled leOHl ; tiht'i tie-cdt i' l a'
ceuld see n m1eansi'tnig ini this, and gi' ie e  list mni rnurs of muni,.  ' be ti ate a}"4?
tint. Ii -mannir, no doubt, beitrayel as of lie b 1eis ener re-nssiedii In.  5i:.. -:
fmcl . i'i .                               iia  Is ive'nIt home  uri mi-cl)  itis  theis  ir l  i ng  c
Meanmstsme, C'ari had resolvedl on Feuisometimi..  'here wa is a aiolent ktieciiiig mit i  iesd'
Without a word, she' it hiiIastily frm i-theiii room adi a tiummei nit, of' hif u iieeand 4 ie The sL
iand  downs airsl, l(-li'i g  th n starit i att' ite1inis 'e  f thiel loil{nme  oinsen-. i The  fugiiitive  e1tm d -l
pa'titioin. (le lost tI-u sedt ~b-f tier fo' a mtim- risii oiif gtarmencuts, tan-I tew that tshe   55
mcetnt ; preseitly he lieasrIdii he piniigsy sti' iin si eyiii  restornimig them  to th  books. .
thhe lower hall, themn on tti: stains, LtIeu on ttei Itart beact itihi solicitude!"'' Ioh'.

1.

MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK WHIFFLES.-ON- THE BORDER.

"I leave you," she said.  " May God- keep
Fou !"n
The clamor was redoubled below. She stole
,own the stairs softly. She made less noise
than the flutter of a canary's wing.
It was the time  between day and night.
Liht and dark.iness were mingled in such pro-
,ortions that neither predor mated. People
beheld each other through a soft mist.
Clai went to a window and threw it up. She
was not afraid. She felt confident of her power
to parley with these without.
"Who clamors at the door? Is this the
way to enter a neighbor's house ?" she de-
manded, with great calmness.  " One would
suppose, ' she added, "that a band of robbers,
was at the door'
A sudden silence fell  upon the turbulent
spirits. Then one.spoke as follows:
"Don't bother, Miss Clari, but let us in.
We're after a Union renegade, and are bound to
have him, let him lay ever so low, or hide ever
Uo high." ,
There was a half-suppressed brutality about'
the voice that was quite apparent to Clari
"Is that you, Aliek Harker?" she answered.
" You did not formerly admission   in this
fashion."
" When he went a wooing," cried a rough
voice.
A hoarse laugh of approbation followed this
remark.
"And sneaked away with a down look," added
another.
"Silence, you bears," exclaimed Harker, ill
pleased with these remarks. " Bygones are by-
gones. Let bygones alone,.won'L ye ? It isn't safe
to jeer ame, boys. A man may change his mind
when he pleases, and be none the worse for't.
Open the door, Miss Kinmouth, for it's my
opinion you've stowed away. Mountain Max
somewhere in this house; and I swear to you
.        ''_, if we have to burn it down l
nI uites can't live in Missouri."
"Considhr that I'm  alone, Alick Harker,"
she replied ; ":and have respect for my situ-
ation. My father will return shortly, when you
can search the house as long and as thoroughly
is you please."
"It won't do, Clari," sneered Harker; with
an inslent familiarity that sent the blood'to
the girl's cheeks. " You used to hurry to open
the dnvr, once, you know."
Ti was said with insulting significance.
"To bid you, as I new do, begone !l' retorted
;i, quickly.
' She has you now, Alick !" shouted a burly
.lian.
"She was always handy with ~her tongue,"
uttered' Harker. " But the time has come
Nhen the tongues that speak not to our. minds
unit be silent. Union or no Union, is the test
question now.  Down with the Constitution

and up with the Nigger ! That's the watch.
word, boys."
Several excited persons repeated Alick's ral-
lying-cry in harsh and angry tones.
Come, girl, will you push the bolt, or shall
I order the-door to be forced ?" continued
Harker, with increasing pertinacity.
" I will remember this rudeness, sir," return-
ed Clari, with dignmiied composure. "To pre-
vent further violence, I will admit you, trusting
that, when within, you will conduct yourself
like men and neighbors."
Clari Kinmouth drew the bolt and stepped
back ; nor did she retreat too soon, for the
door was thrown open with much violence,'and
Harker, with his impatient followers at his
heels, rushed in. The girl had goof eason to
be terrified sit their appearance, for they be-
longed to that lawless and disorderly class
"hose appetites and wills were their sole and
imperative masters. The political confusion of
the times, the destruction of old landmarks, the
apparent breaking up of the Federal Union,
had removed every-wholesome restraint from
men of this order, and -precipitated tfiem, with
all their bad passions, brutal instincts, and
natural ferocity, upon the better and conserva-
tive elements of society. Secession madness
ruled the hour, and nets 6f barbarity were com-
mitted at which future historians will budder.
Persecution, hate, and Murder walked hand in
hand-a horrible trinity.
The fellows who accompanied Alick Uarker
were some of the sanguinary missionaries of the
false Confederacy, acknowledging for its head
and  chief director one Jefferson  Davis-a
violent partisan, and an uscrupulously am;
bitious man.
Conversant with the deeds of these turbulent
and' frightfully-in-earnest wretches, it is not
strange that Clar's cheeks grew pale as they
crowded, with fierce looks and -unseemly lan-
guage, into, the house. But most of all did
she shrink from their relentless leader, Alick
MIarker-a person who once had the audacity
to aspire to her favor. It was easy to see that
his questionably passion was turning to malice
and mischief. There was thatin his gray eyes
which assured her that he knew no middle
course, but must be either a fiery lover or a
sullen hater.
She endeavored to rally her energies. She
met his frowning, glances with steadiness, and
stood with seeming calmness while his six
bearded outlaws took possession of the prem-
ises, and glared- at her like hungry beasts.
Sometime had been consumed 'n the park.
at the door. The fading daylig t had grown
dimmer, and the forms of the armed men wer
more terrible for the misty glooma that envelop-
ed them. Yet through twilight and deepening
shadow she could see the expression of eciae,
and the pale glinting of sabre and carbine.

t
1'

,
,,
1( 4
l
} .
3
'i
i
-
}
,i   , }

i ,; xi
rl ..

i
;
,s
E


K"

4i           MOUNTAIN MAX , O, MCi K WIIIFLXS UN 'ilE B )DERt.
CHIAPTERi IL.                   "Get a light !" exclaimed Alick, gruffly, to
in TxIt IIOUSE.               Clari.
Alick Ilarker paused before Clan Kinmuouth.  " If you have servants, command them,"
There was a history of disappointed expecta- said Clari, with easy indifference.
tion in his face, which she read with secret  "You are d-d perverse. Miss Kinmouth!"'
dread.                                      cried Harker, wrathlfully. " You only confirm
He was a short, stout figure. There was a my opinion of you, however. And let me in,
sufficieit development of sinew and muscle'-a form you, that you are doing yourself no good.
preponderance ofstomah ; short,.stumpv limbs; Safety is something, in these times, as yo t may
large feet; large head ; thick neck; square, wide learn to your cost.- If the fugitive is coriealed
boulders; a red, puffy face ; small eyes; snub iii this house, I swear to you we'll burn it to
hose ; with a heavy growth of Hairy shrubbery the ground P'
about the mouth and chin. He was"armed with   " You will find lamps on yonder table," she
an ancient sabre, in an iron sheath that clanked replied, pointing. "Light them, and search, if
at his side, hanging by two steel chains ; with you must, but with sonic respect to order-and
a ireech-loading carbine, and a brace of Colt's good housekeeping."
rcv'olvers.                                   While the lamps were being lighted, Mr.
Planting the point of his iron-cased sabre Kinmoutli, with two females, a youth, and a
upon the floor, lie leaned upon its tarnished  colored girl, were driven up to the door by a
hilt; and expressed, through mouth and eyes, sturdy negro.
somewhat of his character, and of his feelings  Kininouth entered. - When lie saw the kind
toward the girl standing quietly: before him. or men lie had for visitfis, his countenance was
When lie had looked until mute insolence had troubled.  But lie was not taken entirely by
exhausted itself, he said, in suppressed and surprise. He had long been apprehensi-e of a
isminous tones:                             call from sonic of his Secession neighbors, and
"JI have heard the name o. Kinmsouth men- from Alick 'Harker in particular.
tioned more than    nee, of late, and  have   " here cones your father-in-law," cried Noah
thought to visit this houe by way of warning. Dixon, one of vie most rabid and cruel of
Your father, and the hanger-on, Archie Roe, Uarker's followers, and who; notwithstanding
and your half sister, Kitty, and, in briet, the the moroseness of his temper, made sonei pre-
whole family, are more than suspected of dis- tensions to wit.
affection to the new Confeiieracy."           This remark produced, as it was expected to
Areliie Roe, a demented youth, with his do, laughter and grimace at Ilarker's expense.
head full of harmless fancies, must indeed be a  " Hold your tongue !" he hissed, fiercely.
dangerous enemy of Southern rights !" replied Then to Mr. Kiinouth, who stood looking from
dlar, with a smile,                       one to another with silent inquiry:   "We
" He that is not for us in against us," retorted  think there's a d-d~ Unionist concealed in
Harker, doggedly.                           your house, and we're ifter hiu."
"Perhaps sonic of your sharpshooters had    "I believe you are mistaken, sir," answered
better pick him off, to prevent him from over- Kinmouth, quietly.  "To my knowledge, at
throwing this young republic !" said Clain, least, no one is secreted lere."
bending her nether lip sarcastically.         His words were so calm   and serious, that
"It is advice not unlikely to be followed," they seemed to carry conviction of his honesty
muttered Harker.                            to his rough hearers.            -',          ,
"Kitty and I may prove equally pestilent,"  " You navr't know nothin' about it, but dog
resumed Clari, in the same tone. ."-Why not on me if the gal don't !" sail Dixon. " He
make an example of us?  I am expecting her disappeared hereabouts, and she's had plenty
momentarily, and we shall have little power to o' time to smuggle him into sonie durned hole
resist you. The Confedracy should be made or other ; and if we can't find him, we'll make
safe beyond peradventure, certainly !"    her ; for them nas hides can find. And you'd
" It may come to that," said Harker, averting better be keerful yourself, old man, for we're
his eyes.                        -       ~ makin' a clean thing up and down this yer
"Women have been scourged in Tennessee, river ; and them as won't fight nor talk for us,
I have heard," observed Clari, her nostrils di- must run or hang. Go ahead, Alick, and don't
hating with proud scorn. " There is equal hu- -let the gal look ve out o' countenance. Whar
imanity and  magnanimity in   Missouri, no shall we begin to rummage :'
doubt."                                       The youth, who caine in with IKinmouth, hail
" She's chaffing," interposed one of the six, during this interval, stood watching the face of iM
out of temper at the delay. " She's tryin' to Clari. He now stepped forward so as to bring
gain time, and git your mind off the track of himself into notice.
Mountain Max. This is underground business,   " Go away, Archie," said Clari, in a a kindly
this here 'is. It's underground business, I'll voice. " K  p out of the way of these peo-
swv'arl"                                    pie.'

MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.                            7
"I know what you have come for," said the the search of her chamber. She mechanically
youth, speaking to Alick. "But it's a poor followed them to the critical spot, while her
place to come to, to get new ones. I've got all half-sister, Kitty, clung trembhling to her gar-
that are to be found, and you can see them if ments. Close upon the, heels of the latter, stiff
you like, with pins run through their backs." and stately, fat, fair, and forty, cane the Kin-
"Get out from under my feet ! It's not bugs mouth housekeeper, Sally Dowse by name.
nor beetles that I'm  after," growled Harker, Sally Dowse was a self-sustaining, strong-
pushing the boy aside.                      minded institution. Sally. Dowse stood up for
"What do you want at the Bluff, if not bugs, her rights. Sally Dowse was irrepressible.
and beetles, and long-legged hoppers ?" asked Sally Dowse couldn't be put down.   Sally
Archie, in innocent surprise.               Dowse never failed to speak her mind whenever
" A different kind of a bug, poor fool ! from  she thought there was sufficient rcase for
those you stick pins through, and preserve with speaking. She was just the person for a ress-
so much care," sneered Harker, with an evil hag occasion. Behind the limp skirts of Sally
glance at Clari.                            came a smallish and indescribablecolored girl,
" A different kind of a bug, is it ?" cried who, for some days, had been seen within a cer-
Archie. " Then I'm with you. I know every tain pale apd distance of the housekeeper.
nook, and corner, and chest, and dark hole, This dark piece of humanity hiad received the
and closet, and I'm the boy to show you."   soubriquet of Folly; so, although Ruffiaiiisin
Clari heard this with alarm. She feared that led the way, Folly brought up the rear.
the prying curiosity of the boy might prove   Hugh Bramble approached Clari's bed, and
more dangerous than the blind zeal of the dis- with a malicious grin, impaled it with his sabie,
unionists.         -hs Archie impaled bugs with pins.
"Stay with me, Archie," she said. " These   "lie's not there, at all events !" quoth Hugh.
gentlemen do not inihale humble insects, but "Though I might expected to find hint there,
turn their steel against their brethren."   natural enough, she hem' a Unionist, and he
Harker was about to repulse the youth, when bem' a Unionist."
Dixon interposed with :                       He jerked his-head insultingly at Clari.
" Let the bug-fool go. His folly may prove  "If 's a man," spoke Sally Dowse, striding
sharper than our wisdom. See! the gal grows resolutely into the chamber, "which I ain't,
pale."                                      and can't be, which is a thousand pities, I'd
"Against their brethren !" repeated Archie, learn to conduct myself decent in decent peo-
thoughtfully. "That must bea new kind of plle's houses.  I wouldn't tackle feather-beds
beetle. But where'll you begin? In thecellar, and bonnet-boxes, and toss women's gowns
or the garret ? lIere, or there ?  Above, or about as if they didn't cost nothing, and was
below?  The cellar is too damp for bugs ; the only fit for the rg-bag. Neither would I be-
lizard and the eft creep on the moist ground, come an outlaw, nor a Secession pillager, nor a--
and toads sit on the slimy stones."         murderer and whipper. Take that from Sally,
Archie Roe caught the lamp from the hand Dowse !"
of Dixon, and looked at Harker for the expect-  "Throw her out of the window!l" advisedJ
ed direction.                               Hugh Bramble.
"-'     the cellar first !" said Aliek, authorita-  "Be silent !" admonished Clai, pulling her
lively, "and Hugh Bramble and I will stay by the sleeve.
here lest the game should ship us while below."  " I never will be silent! I was made to go.
" This way !" said Archie, springing ahead, and go I will, till Death freezes my tongue,"
With the light,                             answered Sally, with undaunted front. " Are-
And in a moment the outlaws, save Hugh- thoughts for nothing, and tongues to speak 'em
and Alick, disappeared.  For some minutes for nothing? In my case, never! I don't auy ,
their muffled voices could be heard beneath what it may be in anybody else's case, but in a
the floor. Then they came up; aid a general -my case, not at all!  Throw me out of the
search followed. Beds were thrust through and window ?' She looked hard at Hugh Bramble.
through with sabres ; dark closets:were probed "See what you've got to throw, will ye?
with their steel points ; and even innocent There's a hundred and-sixty pounds of me. A
baudboxes were mercilessly stabbed. Impossi- hundred and sixty pounds of Sally Dowse.'
hle places were examined. Female fripipery " Out of thme way h .I don't care if there's a
was cast- profanely to and fro, and household thousand pounds of you !" cried Hugh, making
gods were trodden on.                       a rush for a wardrobe.
Archie Roe witnessed this wanton invasion   "If there was ten thousand pounds ofine,
and desecration with apparent indifference, and every ounce of it wo id be Union flesh and,
would have talked on continuously of bugs and bone, and blood P' retoited Sally, emnaphatically.
beetles, on which his mind tenaciously dwelt,  As his men moved about the rooin, Alick .
had not Harker threatened him  with his sabre. Harker kept his gaze on Clari. le rather'ex-
Then, for Clan, cane the greatest trial of all-  pected that her face would give him :ame

c           :=

i

,.
F
B
F
.  '

J /

i


8           MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.
intornation respecting their nearness or distance 1  She cut and thrust adroitly with her weapon
from the objectof pursuit. The girl understood  within a few inches of Harker's lambent nose,
him, and kept her countenance cleverly. Just who prudently retired from the vicinity, under
tnen she saw sum1e splinters of wood upon the a heavy fire of raillery from his comrades. To
ioor, which had been detached by the displace- cover his confusion, and further annoy Clare,
nient of the board, and in the urgency of her Harker began to knock on the walls. lie did
hnste, left unnoticed. This startled her. She dot expect to make any discovery, nor did he
observed that Archie Roe was looking at her at think there were spaces beyond.
that instant with singular intensity. She was  He reached the spot where the fugitive was
surprised to sew him  suddenly drop on his hidden. It gave a hollow echo to his blows.
knees and plun fe at something with his hands,  " This don't sound just right," he said, dog.
muttering, " A bug! A bug !"                gedly.
Harker pushed him with his foot, and he was  ".Come  away,"  replied  Hugh Bramble.
up as quick as he went down, and Clani per- " There's nothin' to be found here, for there's
ceived that"the splinters, which had excited her no place to bide a person, big or little."
fears had strangely disappeared.  There was   " You are mistaken, Hugh ; there is a man
no accounting for this. It copidk not have been  hidden here. I can see him," replied Harker,
the result of accident; and yet, what else could approaching Clari.
it be ? Perhaps the'tell-tale fragments of wood  "Where do you see him? Where is he hid-
had-been pushed out of sight, or clung to the den?" asked Hugh, incredulously.
lid's garments. *At all events, they were not  " In two mirrors," answered Harker, pointing
now likely to produce mischief, and she was to Clari's eyes. "There is a man in her eyes."
relieved of an uncomfortable, appre pension.  "If you can see him, ie is not concealed,"
" What's all this trumpery stuff banging to inter closed Kitty Kinmouth, who lhad been a
the wall ?" said Harker, wantonly  piercing an silent and terrified witness of these proceedings.
elegant morning-robe with his sword. "Per. "Go away, rough men. This is not proper and
haps she's hidden him in this delicious way. becoming. You vex and distress us without
These Union girls don't stop   at anything. cause."
They are its wily as.the devil.'             Poor Clare blushed consciously as the sturdy
With these brave words, Aliek Harker' gal- ruffian, Harker, confronted her with his strange
lantly dislodged every article of 'apparel that accusation.
hung against the wall which   sheltered the   Robert Kinmouth, who had- ascended to the
fsgitivc.                                  upper ball, and been engaged for some time in
'That's manly and becoming f" quoth Sally  a severe struggle to maintain self-possession.
Dowse. "There's a petticoat that still dangles now  presented  himself at the door of the
from a nail in the corner there ; charge at it, chamber.
gallant leader! Don't falter because there's a  " Aliek Harker," lie said, " I might have
trifle of steel in it. On, my Don Quixote ! On, expected different treatment froja a neighbor.
invincible knight of La Mancha! This is no Why this rude invasion ofimy dwelling? Why
wie-sack, but a veritable petticoat.  After a this insulting freedom of manner, and this wan-
little practice, perhaps you'll have courage to ton  disregard of the property of another?
tackle me, or Miss Clar, or Kitty."       Why this disrespect.to my (aughte°
"You're a she-dragon !" retorte1 Harker, Confederacy Outrage and Pillage ?"
embarrassed, in spite of his natural audacity, Kinmtouth spoke with emphasis, for he was
by the quiet smile that lingered on the lips of indignant.
Clari..                                      "Thte Confederacy," returned IHarker, shrttg-
" You used to come courting Miss Clani, aging his shoulders, '"is Peace."
didn't ye ?" resumed Sally Dowse, with pro-  "I have yet to see some of -its peaceful
yoking coolness. " If you'd tackled her ward- fruits," added.Kinmouth. " Thus far, I have
robe, and cut and slashed right and left amongst seen but terrorism and unbridled license. Aliek
the linen, you'd had better success. There s Harker, I must ask you to take your fellows
nothing like courage to win a pretty girl."  - and leave my house.
Sally planted her hands on her hips, and   "And I must answer yon that I will not go
laughed heartily; but it was not a laugh that till I please !" retorted Ilarker, frowning.
an angry man hears with indifference ; it was a  " As for concealment, resumed Kinnrouth, " I
tantalizing laugh that lashes him to fury. Ahick will-pledge my word that there is no one hidden
clenched his fist and advanced upon the offend- under this roof."
er. who seized a heavy curling-iron from  a  " We don't want your word," growled Dixon.
toilet-table. put herselfin a defensive attitude, "We've hal words enough 'bout this yer busi-
and untflinchingly awaited the onset. ,    nees."
" Come on, Macduftf!" said Sally Dowse.    " hang the old traitor!" proposed Bramble.
"u ome on, and I'll pin ye to the wall, as that " Sich chaps is worse nor-the Tories was in th
boy pilts beetles and butterflies. See if Ieun't !" Revolution."

I/ L1

91

Q :_i ie7:

i        --
1
1
.
c
~ =!
. -
t
__

t
l-                   t
v
i
t   4
1  ,.

,;! !
.
y ,   -,
,
,
.
,J1,,   .


MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON TUE BORDER.

"Hold on, boys !" said Harker. ,"We'll hundred year of torment. But you hain't got
straighten this tangled matter, right off. I'm  courage enough to do this part o' the country
right sure that the man we're after is somewhere such a favor. Don't touch that man, I warn ye!"
about these iremises,.and that this girl knows  She brought her stout arm on a line with Kin-
where. Now, Kinmoutli is a regular old Union- mouth.
ist, and deserves shragging as much as some  "Ile's a good man, and good men are source.
others that we've fitted hemp neck-ties for ; His neck wasn't made for roles, nor ropes for
and we'll hang him, if she don't tell !"    his neck., And us for the child"-she looked at
le poiiited at Clari suddenly. She glanced Clar proudly-" you can't scare lier  She's
uneasily at the outlaw.                     too much like me to be scared. As for havmg
- You needn't look, girl ; I mean it !" he a man-critter shet up in the -house, you know
mutered.                                   better ; and the whole thing is jest a sham to
" That's yer kind !" chuckled Noah Dixon. pull over the women's clothes and be mean.
"We'll have a rope round his neck in the Thank Heaven ! -hr clothes is all you can ever
twinklin' of aii eye."                      touch, or make free with. You's fool enough--"
"Get a role, some of ye!1" commanded        "-For the ske of prudence  be silent!" ex.
llarker, whose expression .grew every instant claimed Clari, fearful of the consequences of
more menacing.                              thus irritating Ilarker.
"Ay, ay 1 A rope! a rops!'' And two or      "Fish swim, and tongues talk. That's the
three of the men ran away in search of a rope. law o' natur'," answered Sally; "nand what's
During their absence, Alick Ilarker, with folded the law o' natur' is as firm as the law o' gravi-
arms and sinister aspect, stood eyeing Clar. tation."
His rugged features expressed both malice and  " Seize the old man !" said Harker, with dog-
exultation. Ile tried to conceal neither of these ged coolness.
emotions. There was too much ruffianism in    " You shall not touch him !" cried Clar,
hiim to make even an endeavor at delicacy.  springing toward her father. But Noah Dixon
It was, a trying moment for Clari, who felt had already laid a hand on his shoulder ; an
Chat a portion of leu secret-she knew not how  indignity which Kinmouth immediately can-
much--had been discovered. -A question arose celed by knocking uhi  down-a natural but
in her mind   Did this bad man mean what he perhaps indisereet retaliation.- But Kinmoutk
had threatened ? If the affirmative were true, was aroused, and did not pause to hold coun-
what alternative was lIft to her?  An alterna- sel with plodding Prudence.  A fellow who
tive most obvious.  What should. she do? officiously advanced to slip the rope over his
Which way would lher agitated resolution sway1? neck shared the same fate, when Hugh Bram-
Where Would her mind rest at last?  The sub- ,le and two others threw themselves upon him
ject was too dreadful to realize ; she would ig- simultaneously, and prevented the furlier use
nore it. She would think better of human na- of his sturdy right nrn.
ture.              __Sally Dowse advanced to the rescue ; but one
of th  miscreants menaeed her with a pistol,
CHAPTER     III.              and she was forced to be an inactive witness of
SAY on SULK.           \     the scene. Kitty, greatly alarmed, entreated
The men who went after the rope returned them to desist, while Clar, knowing them better,
nr"enty' but too successful in' their search. remained silent. With a grim smile, Harker
" "' '    '  " e  eTld up the twisted cord-fatal symbol of watched her features, and enjoyed her distress.
death.                                        "You see how matters stand," he said, his
Clari maintained a toleralde firmness.    eyes falling before the clear, steady gaze of
"I was never muzzled, and I never will be !" Clar. "You can say or sulk, reveal or conceal
said Sally Dowse, stretching out the hand and In one' case, your father is free, and some one
-advancing the' foot.  " It's my privilege to else hangs ; in the other case, your fatlicr-"
speak the truth, though I die fort. What is   "I will not trouble you to repeat it," inter-
trueI say, and what is false I expose. If a erupted Clari. "It is but an empty threat. I
man's a wretch, I don't mind saying so. If he's cannot believe that you have such a purpose.
a liar and a thief, or a murderer, I say it all the It is impossible. There are degrees of crime,
aume ; and .I find that the truth, and nothing and human depravity must stop somewhere."
short, pays ime good interesi. If I didn't speak  She spoke with wonderful calmness, and tried
niy mind, I'd blow up, like a fire-ship. Alick to believe that which he' affirmed ; but her
Harker, you're a mean, miserable, low-lited, heart palpitated with secret fear.
sneaking , skulkin', outrageous, murderin' black-  " You flatter yourself that I am trifling," an.
guard ! You ain't fit for a public hangman. swered Harker, "but, by    ! I'm in earnest.
You'd better hut that rope round your own The man I want is in this house, and you shall
fleck, tie it to the bed-post, and jump out the speak the truth. By fair or by foul, you shall
winder. If you was to do this, there might be give up your secret !"
some hope on ye in the next world, arter a few  During this brief colloquy, Kinmouth's arms

V1

.f


12      MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.

were pinioned behind himt, and a running noose I
slipped over his heal. This was done with
mush dexterity ; for these outilalps were not new
nt thIe business.  As for Sally Dowse, she could
not re stranu her anger. Although prevented
from rendering iise-lar rid by muscular diffi-
culties, her togue was still under her control,
and no power coult  stop it without stoppng
her breath at the stine time.
" This, I s'pose, is what ou call life, liberty,
and the pursuit of hapinness, guaranteed to us
by the Constiiootion of the United States of
America    This is eqal rights, isn't it ? Tfhi5
is peace and prosperity, law and order, grace
and gospel, furr and freelomrt? If your nev
Confederate concern gets to running this way
afore its three months old, what will it be
when you get the wheels greased ?'
" Can't you stop that woman, some of ye ?"
muttered Harker. " Cran a table-cloth into
her mouth, if ou can't do any better.  Push
her down stairs: tie he heriand and foot ; no
matter what ; anything to stop that infernal
voice.'
There is only one tling, Aliek Hlarkcr, that
can stop mty bugle, and that, whatusomncver it
may be, will stop my circulation simultaneous,
instantaneous, cutaneous, and subterraneous!"
Sally Dowse h-engaged her right arm, which
had been taken violen possession of by Dixon,
and rounded this decision and sonorous period
with a grand defiant flourish.
You may hang and burn them, confiscate
aid overturn, mrrake yourselves the terror and
the curse of then kun 1, break lie hinges of
society, and disarrange things generally ; but as
long as I live, 1 shall be tie same dientical in-
stitution that I now am. While I have strengrtlh'
to draw min ar I breathe out a thimbleful of air,
1 shall use it up to the last half oxygenated
atom, min runni dn to( tie lowest notch this
vile miiserrable, ome-horse Coirfederacy  And a
lane horse at that!"
By this tune .Noah Dion had got his band.
over her mouth, acting umler the delusive inm-
pression that. iracould De stopped ; but at hol-
liw gurgling in her throat told that the heavily
freighted train of thought was steadily moving
on, accompanied by sound, if not by articu-
lation.
Clari was tor much nihan  to see anything
that partook of the grotesque. She began to
realize that these men were in earnest.
"t Speak now, inr never ! Miss Kinmouth,"
said Ilirker, grufily.  "There stands the old
gentleman, and there stands the men tho will
give huimt  a lift over the window sill into the
open air very soon ! Now what have you to
say :'
le raised his eyes slowly till they net hers
--hers so intense, so beautiful, so sad. He
looked down with a slight flush, possibly of
shame ; for a bad man may be momentarily

I ashamed of conduct which lie -as no intention
of mending.
"Aleck liarker," answered Clari, in a tremu-
lous and touching tone, " is it thus that you
manifest your friendship for me-a friendship
which you once aiflirnied  deserved a softer
name. Change your thought; recede from
this great sin. Say that you did but jest. Re-
lease my father, and call anny your friends.
Redeem yourself while you may. Listen to the,
appeals of huianity and mercy. 'Be not deaf
to the kindlier impulses of human nature.
Outrage not the sacred obligations of common
charity."
The voice of Clare took a melting tone, and
flowed like liquid music into her tender plea.
She might have spared her eloquence. It was
this eery mood, touching and tearful, that grati-
fied tre unforgiving ternr of the rebel out-
law. A flush of unmanly triurmpjh passed over
his swarthy features.
I never go barck," said Alick Harker. " My
work is always before re. A purpose, good or
ill, never grows weaker on my hands. 1 meant
to remember your pride -whenever chance or
change should give me the advantage. Now is
the time of that remaembrance. 'W here now is-
your scorn of me--the curled lip, arid the dis-
dainful eye ; the mocking voice, and the
haughty figure ? Gone is your contempt. Eye
and lip droop meekly ; the voice is tender, and
the form humble. Why this change ? Because
all things ehic have changed. By a potent wave
of the magician's wand, a great nation has
fallen to pieces, and the elemeirts of society
seem. rushing back to their original chaos.
The North no longer rules. Fr-om the banks of
the Missouri down to the Gulf, the people are
free.  We will drive out the firnatics, and pos-
sess the land. Death ; to Federal Unionists I
We wanr t no warrant for our authority. Our
power is our authority-our might is our right.
I tell you we will make clean work of it'.
Lincolnites must fight for our Confederacy, or
hang for the. Union. The two things ire before
them--fgigt or hang. Let them   choose, and
choose quickly."
".My father is past bearing arms," replied
Clar, shivering at the horrible energy which
Harker threw into hIs words. Contemplating
his fierce expression, she could think of noth-
ing but the sanguinary miscreants of the
French Revolution. His comrades inspired no
less aversion, and were terribly impatient of
delay.
'i Age is nothing," sneered the outlaw ; " and
hits nothing to do with the question. It is you
that tire to say. You hold in your keeping life
and death.' So that is settled." le turned to
his creatures . " Drag him to the window, boys.
Don't mince matters. Make everything right
and tight. Don't be squeamish    about his
throat. A little preliminary choking won't hurt

I

him. Take a stout turn -around something, a perilous position, knocked one of the scoundrels
hook, a bed-post, or anything firm. Break out down who was holding him, and pushed the
that glass. Crush the saslh with your foot, other through the shattered sash, giving him a
Hugh. That's it!"                           fall of fifteen feet to the ground below, upon
A showe- of shattered glass and wood went sharp fragments of glass. For a brief space,
ringing and rattling to the ground.         surprise chained the faculties of Ilarker and his
Stand'-the old man upon the sill," continued ruffians ; then revolvers were drawn and sabres
llarker -  and when I say the word, launch unsheathed. The fugitive caught Noah Dixon
him out, and let him dangle. He shall die un- by the neck, and held hinm before him for a
der his own rain-trough-under the drippings shield, and there was another interval of inac-
of his own home sanctuary."                 tion  the disunionists having  no relish for
Too willingly and rapidly these villainous shooting their companion,
instructions  were  obeyed.  Kinmouth was     While the catastrophe was tims held, as it
placed upon  the window-sill, the rope was were, at arm's length, a horse at full gallop was
made fast, while two men held him ready to heard to stop at die door, and before anything
consummrate a murder when Harker should more than a mute inquiry of eyes could be
give the signal. Kiniouth  was calm, but made, a man sprang tp the stairs, three steps
deathly pale. He -had kept his eyes fixed on at a time, and looked in upon Alick Harker's
Clari, and when lifted to the window, turned terrible tableau.
his head so as to keep her yet in view~
"My child," lie :said, for he began to per.             CHAPTER IV.
ceive that she had really something to conceal,             wrou Is IvrI.
*" if you have given shelter to a good and true  fhe person who entered in this abrupt'man-
Union man, either in this house or out of it, I ter was somewhat above'the average height, of
charge you not to betray him. ' His life is worth a straight and hardy figure, and of an age hard
as much at tine ; and if younger and stronger, to arrive at by the ordinary rules of calculation.
it is worth more."                          He might have numbered forty, forty-five, or
With clasped hands and drooping strength, even more years ; or lie possibly ri" ht have
Clari stood gasping for breath. Kitty, less been taken for a person younger than either of
firm, fainted and fell into the' arms of Sally. these figures. His face, though weather-beaten,
The black cheeks of Folly seemed to bleach with had evidently teen kept young by a cheerful
terror ; her pearly teeth chattered like bits of disposition and a genial turn of humor. His
ivory shaken in- a dice-box. Miss Dowse was rather small eyes were, no doubt, under ordinary
so choked with wrath, that she could only mut- circumstances, good natured ; while his large
ter, " The t iilains! The villains!"        mouth was manifestly formed for qniet drollery
Never was Clari so painfully agitated. Every and all manner of quaint things. His beard
faculty of the mind was held -in abeyance by  was of various colors, and presented a flourish-
t.amlelnness and crushing weight of the al- ing growth of some years. It fell on his tanned
native so cruelly cast upon her. The atro- buckskin frock like the beard of a Jewish pa-
ious expedient which she could not believe in, triarch. In that human brush one could have
at first, she now dizzily and shudderingly found wefts of white, yellow, red, gray, and
sensed. Site tried to speak ; but tongue and dark brown ; but the real silver threads were
lips were -dry, and gave no sound. Harker few. This variegated crop of hair did not con-
looked toward the executioners. Clari threw  ceal the expression of his mouth, the forage of
up her hands for delay. The rebel outlaw    the upper lip being carefully pushed aside to
glanced at her " colorless face, and felt the favor the necessary functions of that important
sweetness orf a. revenge morbid and unnatural item of face.
in) its vindictiveness.                       This personage was dressed like a pilgrim
"Father!" gospel Clari "I must-I must from the far trapping-grounds of the West--
speak !" Her voice was scarcely intelligible. - with moccasined foot, with leggined calf, and
"Be firm, my girl," answered Kinniouth, in cap of skin. Some kind of fir arm was slung
tones clear and brave. "If the man escapes, across his back by a stout leathern strap. By
tell hint to avenge me."                    his side hung powder-horn and bullet-pouch.
"I cannot, I cannot! It is impossible. I In a belt around his waist lie were, conspien.
must save you."                             ously, two of Colt's world-renowned revolvers,
At the moment that Clari Kinmonth ceased and an anomalous weapon in a .sheath, that
speaking, there was a erasli directly behind seemed a cross between a Ibowie-nrtife and a
Harker. A board was burst from the wall with broadsword. Whatever' might have been the
such force that it flew against aid nearly pros- pluck and quality' of this sullen visitor, it was
treated him, and the fugitive, glowing with fierce quite apparent that he carried metal.
and manly indignation, sprang into the room;  le looked gtrnright before him, around the
then, glancing around ard scarcely pausing, room, across it in every direct on,-andl at every
rushed to the window, drew Kinmoutlh from his person and 'every expression in it; then what

1~

MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON TIIE BORDER.

I3


WA  MOT1AINMAXN?:OIL NICK \ JI a 11,1. 1,±JON TUE BORtDE ..

Lad been manifest of linging good nature,
latent hunor, or sIn bci ng tu, van ish ed in
the twin ling of an eye. I, t(I ows contracted
the small, cil'ur orbs under theiii flashed fierce-
l%"; his li1ps closed tightly together, and the
long, a;ttrinrha1l beard shmook ua  fu1 nlv. Push-
ing back his niger almost as soon as it appeared,
wib hand on welpoln, and eye on Iarker, with
form more erect and wiry than an instant before,
he said, in a Voice singularly sele-possessed, yet
full of menace:
" Here's a condemned diffikilty, I reckon
Of all the p'is critters, ib case of a cussed
little dliilty, ilm the l'isonest. There's a
polar attraction about diffitilties hat draws ne
to the spot like a locomotive bengiine. 1Diffikil-
ties is the nat'ral pl asuires of my life, 'specially
-where there's mncan and wicked car'in's'of and
there's villains to be punished. What m..tns
this here?  Vlh v is that ripe round that man's
neck-why does'tliiit otlir mian stand at bac--
'wiy are il Ihese weapons drawd-and who
fainted that gal, and made this other one look
pale' nor a gbost'? Speak, soiie on ye, for I'm
siweatii' to get initoi tils difii ly!"
When the hold intruder beanui o spear, IHa'-
her and his fellows began to look at each other
in an inquisitive way, and to revive their soie-
what daipeiined courage ; but there wasnot one
of them  who  id not itist:nctively wonder at
and fear him. Some of tlhetmi were covertly
turning the muzzles of their pistols uponL him,
but he ci-covered the trick in a moment, and
waving his revolver slowly to and fro, covering
first one ind theii othere, added, ini a tone the
deadly earnestness of which could not be mis-
taken:
" The first rebel of ye that p'iits weepon at
me shall tall in his tracks. Ile shall, I swear to
gracious!"
" Go'way! strangerr" answered Harker, chok-
ing with rage. " We don't want you, and you
arc not by afny means safe here. Begone, or
you will im'et your last diffikilty. We are des-
perate meni, and } ou had better not meddle
with us."
"I know you re desp'ratc men, and that your
cause is, lesp'rrte, and that you It come to a
desp'rate cenitas 'tis fittin' ilitraitors should !"
retorted the stranger, nothing igt inidated.
" If I understandthis sur.ma:t," tie resumed,
with steady emphasis ; " you secesh outlaws is
goin' about like'ravenous wolves, to devour and
to destroy, to pillige and to kill, to burn and to
lay waste."
He paused, and turned hii eyes upon the fu-1
gitive, who still hell Noah Dxon by the neck,
much to his disconifort.'
" Ilow is it, Max? How is it, my boy ?
Haven't I pt 'cii whcre they elonig? ,haven't
they chased you down as if % on was a wild
beast, to be hairiel and worried, and rubbed
out., at Dist., by lead, or by steel, or by halter ?"

I

"You are right," said Max,' impressively.
"You awIys- jidge  crreeug . Y or guesses
are better tham the written depis:ttiis of some
men that 1 ciiud naime. Never uis buffalo
or bear, stag, or fox, bounded as I hmve been
by these laless scounmid rle! Have a care, I -
entreat of you, iyy old Ireud, or twym wil 1hoot
you luniware', when your eyes are not on them."
,I see ( cry dog  of' 'em, Max, and lie falls
fast who fist taeekleS ie," uinswered the new-
corner, determiinedIy
" We three are enough for them," cried Kin-
mouth, casting the cord from his neck with a
hot flush of insulted imiaimhood.
"Quite enough," said the man called Max,
tightening his grasp on Dixon's neck. "I have
thrown ",ie of the iscals out of the window .
I heir him groaning among the brok' n glass
below. Three true ien can cope within six ajse
ones. I have anlwa3 ssfoundI that ai honest muan,
in an honest cause, hias a stout ain :miiu  a stout
beirt. Let the traitor, coimmence fhme attack."
The man, Max, gave DixonI a pinch with his
muscular fingers, that muale hin gasp like a
fish just taken from the water.
Shoot him !" imuttcredl Noah, who had no
relish f,r the tortures of stranugulation. "Put
a bullet throughmhimi, canut ye :''
A  more rigid contractmou of the fingers
stopped the fellow's voice.
Woe to the man as draws a head on hita!"
said tie in buckskin, raising his voice. - Grief
to him as gives Mon..tail Max a supper *' lead !
Or a dinner, or a breakfast don't, for thiit mat-,
ter. It would be a burning' shame for a true
mountainli mann, who's faced all manemir o' var-
mints, in all manner o' places, '.hose eyes
never blink it danger, whose aim is Amtrmy
taint, at eiglhty ilrodsand  p'ards, and wii shoots i-
plumb-centre at three hundred yards. to be
rubbed out by a menn secession~ sunk' It
would, I swear to grnciius i"
" That must be Nick Vhiiffles, or the devil I"
exclaimed Alick Harkei, tlihrusting hIsis head for-
ward, and staring inquisitively at the weather-
beaten face of the stranger.
No one replied. Tie iman of the moccasin.
ed foot and leather hunting-shirt, drew himself
us straighter, and smiled. 'There :was pride
and calm sell'asurancc on his lips. lIe looked
like a person' who asked no partieu!ar favor of
any one, and that knew how to take care of
himself in all places, and in every coutiigeiey
of life.
"I'll bet my skulp," growled   ugh m-tram
ble, " that that d-d Fremont sedit for hiim, and
lie's come down from the mountains of Califor-
ny, where lie's been huntin' grizzlies, to have a
finger in this ere secession business."
"May the devil take Jessie and the little
Mustanig !" added hlirketr, in ain undertone.
Then to Ime inteuder. who stool chii iily in the.
door : " Speak,,nister: Are you iNik, or Satan ?'

MOUNTAIN MAX; Olt, NICK WHIFFLES-ON ThE BORDER.

" A, man as knows so much, should know 1
more," said the stranger, with composure.
' But I was never afeard to speak the truth."
Mountain Max shrugged his' shoulders, and
curled his nether lip a trile.
"Leastwise," quoth Nick, in a slightly quali-
fying tone, "I may boldly say that I never was
feared to speak my mind when there was occa-
sion fort. I don't valley tellin' ye, mister" -he
looked hard at Harker-~-" you nor- no other
p'ison traitor as treads the sile o' the Fed'ral
tUnion, that I'm Nick Whiffles, a;d - nothin'
shorter ; Nick Whiffes from the mountains and
valleys ; Nick Whiffles from tlje perairies and
plains ; Nick Whifnes from the lakes, and riv-
ers, and trappin'-grounds of the wide Nor'west !
I'm he ! Oh yes! 0,Lord, yes !" .
Nick looked gimtly at vacancy, after the old
fashion ;. and the comical twinkle reappeared
in his eyes.
" He come down from the mountains with
Miax," muttered Bramble, with a boding shake
of the head.
"You're wrong there, Secesher,"answered Nick.
"We didn't come together, by no means. He come'
fust, and I afterward.. I haven't been long in
this rebellious nest, I allow. Didn't git here a
minute too soon, neither. I'm jest in time for
this little diflikilty."
"If you know when you are well off, old
boy," replied  Harker, menacingly, "you'll
leave this little diffikilty, as you call it, imme-
diately."
" I never run away from a difilkilty," said
Nick, with a negative motion of his head. "I
never in my life run away from a diffikilty ;
though I had a brother once who could run like
A four-wheeled 'wagin.  He allers run, my
o   if nr'h All his ancestors on his mother's
siste side run afore him. ' Runnin' run in his
blood, as 'twere. But there was one pecool-
yarity about my brother's running : he allers
ran toward the danger, and not from it."
Nick glanced at Harker with a grim sort of
humor. At the same time he drew his second
revolver with his left hand, and with easy non-
chalance of manner, cocked it. Each of his
brown hands' now hield six shots. Nothwith
standing his quietness, there was something in
his air and attitude that overawed Alick Harker
Rad his followers.,
"I've heard of you,"said the rebel outlaw,
doggedly. "Much has been 'said and 'written,
about you ; but I don't believe half on't.
You've been published in the newspapers, put
on the stage, served up in books, translated into
French, and hashed up in every style to suit
the modern appetite ; but I care no more fir
you than I should for any adventurer from the
niountains. This is'a bad place for you to come
to, Nick Whiffles. There's different pastime going
on here from trapiiug beaver, shooting bears,
aol picking off a naked Indian', now and then."

16

"Go on,:Secesh ; you've got the floor," said
Nick.  " Speak your mind while you've got
breath to spare ; for it's ten to one if you out-
live this 'ere Secession  row.  I've ane for
smarter men nor you be, early in the morain',
afore breakfast. As for the stories ouve read,
in the p'ison newspapers, I vc nothing' to say of
'em, whatsomever.  It don't consarn You much
whether they're true or false. A good many
things are printed tiat are hard to believe.
My gran'fathcr, the historian, published some
vollums that was as true as Sizibad the Sailor,-
and yet there was people bad enough tom shake
their heads when they was readin' 'em. I'll die
if there wasn't !"
The corners of Nick's mouth twitched slight-
ly, and he-threw a fugitive glance at Max.
" The historian of your exploits and your
grandfather were about alike, I should think,"
said Harker, contemptuously. "'The author of
'Nick Whiffles' would be out here taking Syees-
sion notes if he wasn't afraid of Secession bul-
lets. He finds it safer to concoct his Munehau-
senisms under the brooding wings of the aboli-
tion oligarchy, than to trust himself over the
border, where steel, and not iik, is deciding the
great question of, union ahd disunion."
" As for that matter, Secceher, I've heard
tell that them as cnn wield the 1(1n and make
-printed books can wield- the sword and the rifle,
likewise. But that's neither here nor there.
I never like to talk of my own exploits, more
nor I like to, hear a friend slandered bThind his
back. They may print my name in as many
languages as they please,.and I sha'n't be aone
the worse for't. But ore thing I can tell ye,
and tell ye hearty and true: I'm down on this
Southern  Skedaderacy !  If ever a man was
down on't, that  man is the:man afore ye. I
love the starry banner of the United States.
I do, by mighty! I haven't been much under
its protection for some years o' my wanderin'
life, but when I do bear its folds a flappin' over
me, my heart begins to thrill with pride, and I
feel a head taller nor any man atween heile and
the Gulf. Whenever I look up and see the old
flag, I swear to gracious, 1 feel as if I could
lick a wagin-load o' traitors !"
Nick set his teeth together, and breathed
hard. Aliek Harker turned pale, for lie thought
the man in moccasins    handled his weapons
rather carelessly. He   moved uneasily. lie
cleared his throat. and said, huskily :
"You're on the wrong side, Nick Whites!
Come over and help us.  We need you. Ay,
and you needn't come    for nothing, either i
You shall have Confederate gold and a Confed-
erate commission. We could soon raise a regi-
nent to fight under you. The fact is, your
name is popular clear down the z iver to New
Orleans.  I've heard ypn talked   cf on the
steamboats and in camp, and I know "what I
say. Listen to reason, and seize good-lu eh by

0

r
.
a
'.
a ''

L

r
i
i
t
1S "
4
i
i
t
s}

i
S      ,
;F
f


M;)U NTAN MAX; OR, ENIC WHIULLS ON THL BORDER.

e lo k.     Float in nith the tide, Nick
N1 il S."
The rebel outlaw tried to get upconsiderable
entlinsiasmr of tone and manner, but his remarks
ntlnoawith an ill-grace, and with, more of slt
leaness than  inspiration.  Nick heard him
patiently and with apparent gravity. He lifted
ie, shoulders and laughed quietly when Harker
oeasel speaking.
-"Confederate gold !" quoth he, incredulously.
"1Let's see some omn't, will ye?  I'll give ye a
handsome bonus for every dollar you've got in
good yaller ore. If you'said Confederate brass,
wouldd been a different thing; for I allow
there's plenty o' that among ve, and a giniwine
article, too, without any alloy of the precious
metals in't. Confederate gold! - I want none
oa't ! I aint up for sale yet ; when I am, Jeff
Davis and his traveling' menagerie, can come
and bid for ne, and p'r'aps I'l1 go cheap. If
Jefi should chance to be the puiehaser, the
best use he could put me to would be, hangin';
for a disloyal critter that can be bought and
sold, is better sawed up cold than t'otherwise,
Confederates, I allow, are improved by hangin
a few hours in the open air. As for a commis-,
sion, I'd like to see the nian as would dare offer
rue sich a monstrous humbug! You've got no
gover'mnent, and where there's no gover'ient
there's no authority.  The authority of the
United States is surprene from Maine to Georgia,
and from thie Rocky Mountains to the Gulf of
Mexico. Don't talk your villainous treason to
mce ! I can't turn traitor arter I've been a true
man goin'-'on forty year.. Them there seven-
starred rags won't do for me. I'd ruther fight
under an -old woman's apron tied to a broom-
pole, than to follow sichr a contemptible rag to
battle. Oh yes, I'd rather lay down and die,
than to fight for anything but the old banner.
I want a flag that's got a history to't, and
Liberty on't. I can't fight for cotton and nig-
gers, but I can fight for freedom and the Union
as hearty and faithful as any man that lives. I
can do that. 0 Lord, yes 1".
Nick raised his voice, and his rough cheeks
glowed.
"Don't talk to me no more in that way," he
added. " I'm  mighty narvous, -gener'ly, and
pistils sometimes go off o' their own accord,
e'enaniost."
"Shoot him, some on ye, can't ye !" stam-
mered Noah Dixon, who still writhed in the
ungentle grasp of Mountain Max.    "'Tisn't
fair, this isn't."
The pitiless fingers stopped all farther artic-
ulation. - Ilarker and his crew were greatly
embarrassed. They meant mischief, but had a
wholesome fear of Nick Whiffles' revolvers.
Each wished to make an attack, but no one had
the courage to move first. Few men care to
stir whern a pistol-brllet is the penalty of mo-
tion.' Iarker felt that something must be done.

.
f ,
3

To stand longer, staring at ;Nick Whiffes, was
useless ; not only useles-, but cowardly. Each _
waited for the oter-each looked at the other
-each inwardly cursed th6 tardiness, of the
other. A silence ensued that was enjoyed by
Nick only.
CHAPTER V.
MOUNTAIN AIlRS.
The lamp burned dimly in the hands of
Archie Roe. It threw an uncertain glimmer
over all. It shimmered on the pale face of
Clari ; flickered over the white lips of Clan.
Clari felt faint and weary. She glanced at the
man called Max - the stranger called Max,
whom she had befriended. H:s eyes were upon
her-hris eyes, dark and fall of gratitude. She
looked down, and a sickly blush overspread her
features.
" If there is to be fighting," said Max, "let
the ladies retire."
" You couldn't have said anything more sen.
sible," interposed Sally Dowse, who was en-
gageal in the benevolent employment of support.
ing the half-conscious Kit ty. - Stand aside,
you land-pirate," she added, glancing with lofty
contempt at Harker. "Stand out the way, and
let me pass with this girl."
Bearing her lovely burden, Miss .Dowse at-
tempted tq pass the rufian, who, glad of any
event to attract momentary diversion, sprang
backward toward Archie Roe and struck the light
from his hand. Friend arnd foe were instantly in
darkness. There was a shuffling of feet, a hur-
ried changin gof positions, and a detei-mined rush
to the spot where Nick Whiffles had stood. Full
of blind fury, each of the outlaws was anxious
to give a wound to the sturdy mountaineer. In
the light, all of them  had shrugri frum an-no
tack ; but darkness, they imagined,  i-ed a
sudden and effective onset. They were Aignal-
ly foiled, for Nick had too mauchexperience to
remain on the threshold for a mark. Sabres
met and crossed in empty space. and several
received wounds from their friends which were
intended for another.. Sonie of the more reck-
less of the disunionists discharged their pistols
at random, but fortunately without injury.
There was a pell-mell retreat down-stairs, one
or two of the villains falling from the top guite
to the bottom, in a very damnaging and perdous
manner. Nick averred afterward that he hap-
pened to be near the head of the stairease dur-
ing their confused and clattering exit, and that
some of them must have run violently against
his elenced fist, and in a *ay calculated to
disturb their respective centres of gravity.
There was much limping and swearing in the,
tall while one 'of them was fumbling for the
door, and their spirits were far less jubilant
than when they entered the pr-mrises.
But it fared hardest withl Noah Dixon, for
Mountain Max had held him fast during the

17

rf
//r1f'

f


snole parley.  The moment the lamp was ex-
tinguislhed by fhirker, he lifted the knat e from
his feet. and without much trouble dropped
himn froii the window. Genuine expression of4
paiu followed his rapid descent, and Max was
satisfied that lie hal not escaped without some
portion of the punishment, due to his deeds.4
ibe greatest anxiety of Max was for the safety-
of Clari. lie heard the pistol-shots with a
shiver of alarm. lie felt his way toward her.
lie found her ; he threw his arm abdhaL her,1
and stood prepared to defend her; but the
noise on the stairs, and presently at the door be-
low, assured him that the room was clear-of theo
rebel marauders. A few shots fired after them
by Nick hastened their flight and dangerously
wounded one of their number. Their horses
had stampeded, and those who had come soI
bravely-mounted and confident, went away on
foot with far different feelings.J
" They're runnin'," said Nick Whiffles..
"The pmson critters are runnin', and I hope
they w n't stop till they run straight into the
Gulf. That's the only kind 'o' sei-bathin' for
secession sickness, It'll be a mighty resort for'
'em by-and-by, I allow. They'll go down in
vast multitudes at the p'iht o' Fed'ral bago-
aets."
Nick blew the smoke from his revolver, and
panted to think about the Gulf of Mexico as a
rehei bath.
Max felt Clari trembling, and gradually yield-
ing to the reaction of intense excitement.  He
staid her sinking formand  spoke words of
cheer ; she heard then not ; the danger being
passed, the great pressure upon her energies sud-
denly removed, the revulsioni proved too much
4r her-she-fainted. The larger the men, the
sli'edt    els ; and the strongerlhe is,thme weak-
er lie becoms when a pretty womanfaints. These
general principles held good in the case of Max.
But his embarrassinent did not arise from the
mere awkwiardness cf inexperience. Clan had
become- something more -to him than an object
of common interest. She had stepped at once
to the 'highest place iii his mind. Both hi
reason and Ids 'imagination exalted her. H
high qualities had suriised and pleased him,
and given him a reverenhb for the- ohiraeter of
woman, new and strange. Clari had 'thrilled
-and magnetized liim. Clari, in fact, was the
only person -he could think of, and she was now
an absorbing thougt.it
Fortunately, Archie Roe.emne to the rescue ;
he re-lighteI his extinguished lamp, and Max'
hailed its fitful rays with unfeigned satish'ae,
tion. ImimediateJy there was a gathering of
the household, and Sally Dowse and the negro
girl Folly were, for a time, in great. denied,
and exceedingly useful.
By the united efforts of all concerned, sone-
thing like order was finally restored, and the
household and its visitors were quietly assembled

in the lower part of the house. Clari, recovered
from her temporary weakness, now looked firm
and strena, although soniewhat pale. Kitty,
quick in her emotions, was the first to be cheer
tal and to- forget her recent terror. Sally
Dowse was severe and dignified, and more seri-
ous than usual. Folly chattered and laughed,
and showed    her white  teeth   impressions
made upon her fluctuating mind soon gave
plaoe to others; arnd the sime thought seldom.
held her long under its -influence. Robert Kin-
mouth was the gravest of the parties. He re-
alized the great danger from which he had es-
caped, and for the first time since the breaking
out of the Rebellion, understood the perils that
surroundedl him and the evils of tLe times. TIe
conviction'at length caine hometo his heart,
that no man was safe at his own fire-side, and
that even women could not find sanctuary at
home. He looked atLis daughters, attthe crazed
Archie a. his servants, and 'could not reprss
a sigh of anxiety. Mountain Max, as he was
persistently called by those who knew him, was
silent and modest as a girl. If his cycs were
somewhat excrsive in the direction of Clar, it
is not to be wondered at, the circumstances be-
ing such as to call out peculiar feelings of ad-
miration and gratitude. 11er kindness in de-
fending him ; her ingenuity in selccing a hid-
ing-place ; her .fficiency in effecting the con-
ceahnent, and per fortitude in rfusing to be-
tray him, were items most thoroughly remnem-
bored and appreceiated. 'Ihis: ght I had risen
from the 'metboerity of common feminine lhu-
matnity .to the very st.mnmit of hiroism and un-
selfishness.  Clar ewas beaut iful. Ier I roan,
crispy hair ; her soft yet lustrous eyes, and a
pretty mouth, expressive alile of thought and
refinement, were not things to pass unnoticed
and inadmired.
The mountaii- man, the pupil aind compan-
ion of Niek Whiffles, hitd seen enough of suck-
Ly in California, New Mexico; and, other places,
to cotiphlitend thIe mtny distCions of female
character, and particularly tofpiireinte worth
aid beauty  combined. lie was ensiared by
Clari. He had stepped over the chba med cm-
ele of ihe'life, and  ienceforth lie wias to be held
in 'vassaluge to her will. Iles peace of mind
was in .a great measure to delimnd on the muo-
tion o1 her lips-te formationi of n syl!blc-
the tender turning of ii  eye.  But Minx scarce-
ly understood this yet. lie was' in a iinze of
delicious uncertainty in regard to hiso e'n-
satism:i  Nevertheless, Max, the siurdy ; Max,
the strong and fearless; Max, the motm'hninmee
Max, the wild, free rover, hind fonhial his sub.-
duer, his eager and tamer, tIe misir(Es of hia
setions, if she chose to be ; and, in 1rief, his
detminy. The wild-beast hunter amd tni r was
to be hunted and tamed ; hun'el by tie eyes
of Clari; tamed by her authority. Max had
enough to think of.

lA

I'

r'

,, ~  y

1

MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.

S19


I

20          MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.
Nick Whifes, who had been out to look after 1 when they met, and she gave them something
his horse, unwilling  to trust it to stranger that looked like a bit of white paper. Then
hands, cam  in with the old careless, comical, they sent Splayfoot away, and they talked a
quizzical impression on his face. It was irm- long time. I laid in the bushes close by, but
possible to keep his elastic spirits long under out of sight, and the gold-laced fellows were
restraint.  The quiet humor would lurk in the Jeff Davis Confederates, the rebellious Se-
the corners of his month, and tremble under eessioners, with swords and pistols, guns and
his grayish lashes. 'Nick didn't look very old. carbines, and horses to drive out the Unioneers,
He really did not. The last few years had not make fighting soldiers, and have everything
wrought any particular change in his counte- tleir own way."
nance or person. He was still straight enough   Every one in the room   heard Arelhie's re-
and stout, enough for all the practical purposes marks with pain and surprise.  Kitty kept
of life. Major-General Fremont lad sent for blushing, and looked furtively at C!ari. She
him to come down from the mountains, with a certainly displayed a consciousness of somae-
few chosen woodsmen and sharpshooters, to thing unpleasant and embarrassing. Ucr fa-
take a hand in playing out'the game of Rebel- ther observed her confusion. It was known to,
lion. The general's letter found Nick ready to the family, and to some of the neighbors, that
start of his own free will, with quite a num- Mrs.Kinmnouth had secession tendencies. When
ber of the identical men wanted. Max Bus- the subject of separation from      the Federal
worth, his pupil and friend, was dispatched Union began to be agitated, she nade no see-et
that vary day with Nick's answer, while Nick, a of her sentinionts, but spoke hem freely and
day or two afterwird, followed more leisurely, openly.  After~ the pretended withdrawal of
HIe'reached Missouri without serious accident, Missouri from the Federal compact, a notable
and established a small camp. Some of his change came over her. She became singularly
men had arrived, and othe-s were on the way, reticent in regard to the Rebellion. Some per-.
in squads anti parties, traveling fast or slowly, sous thought that she bad renounced her se-
as tie mood suited them.                    cession proclivities, and no longer sympathized
I-will be seen that Nick came just in time, with the disloyal disturbers of public security.
and that iis presence worked important results A few, however, were wiser, andr believed 1l ma4
at Kinmouth's. -'her silence                             was mooe  dangerous than open
Where is your'nmother ?" Kinmoath asked, avowal.-
looking uneasily at Kitty. "I like not this     Mrs. Kinmouth was the second wife of-Robert
continued absence."                           Kimmixouth, an  th"tinm other of Kilty.  She
" I don't linmow," said Kitty, somewhat trou- imir-rieml,  ng. She had been called hand-
bled by her father's manner. "She went away  some,"as a girl, and stilr retained, in a remenark-
early in the afternoon, attended by the boy   able degree,.those good looks that had first
Splayfoot."                           -    -  pleased, thie eyes of her husband. Mrs. Kin-
Now, time boy Splayfoot was a knobby-head- mouth was so.well-preeser'ed, that she and lher.
e1 negro, by no means of a boyish a ge ; but it danghterwere often muitakeni for sist'- i ,I.
siuild he known that sh.aves aire all boys and  relatioislt looked niore probable to 'rangers
girls, to the day of their deaths.            thman time rial ne. It cotiid not be disguised
"She and Splayfoot gb ofgen," added Kin- that she wims yet. fai-, a1nd cable of exciting
mouth, reflective$-.  "I sonietiies  wonder aduiiation.  11cr.temnpermnent was eminienity
where slhe godsmii-what her business may be. Soutiern. Her blood was hot, and her will im-
It is now late." 4}';pe:ious ; tacit sense, adroitieso, and shrewdness,,,
Kitty seemed  istressed, niud dir not care to muordified these' and held them, when expedien -
emnounter her father's imquiring glances.  00 op eqijited, in compartive abseyance. Mrs.
"1The excitemeneit of the last. hour," resumed  Kmniotmth' was subtle. S ie wais a political tin-
Kinmoutth, " has 'kept hier frm  my muind u  trig meante, gotp'ithstauiling ler ousteimsmble retire-
now I ari quite disturbed" ^                  mm- hnt frontn  time bitter discussions of the'day..
"6Spla fhot will take'care of bem," saideAiclhic That Mr. Kitnpnth was aware of her, secret
Roe. " Spiyfdot 'keeps near her ' when" she adhesiuonmato'tle Confederacy, there could, be no
talks with time mien i mmthe giay coats, with the doubt ; but lie was not prepared to hear Ilmt she
gilt things on the houdes."                held comtresponmdenec. with time enemy. lie would
Every one' in the room inivoluntarily turned willingly have boen spared the iortification- of
toward Arebie.   Kimaouth . flushed  to  the Archi'es disclosure. He felt immbleut in: 4ho
brows.                                e-ryes of Nick Wlifles and Max BEsworth.        A
"With what men does she tlk?" he asked,  ioumiept of reflection -convineed him that-he
abruptly.                                     aught not to bitertai :such, feellnigs, amind.that
" With mthe men in grayfcoats. with gold lace bre lmomild not coaidenin  his wife on the mero
on thleum," mlserl'Ar chie, qiiellly.  test immony of Ile youth.             m
The face of Kinmuithi gew lon-re trolley.  "'My wife, I trust," lie said, looking at Nick,
"They touched their hats, amd they smiled andI mining faintly, "is no rebel.";

it

I

1
1
,

r"y i  tY 6Td   Y   4t  r:.f'wygy('!+ ''.".wT#+N!"1 yry
~ pp              S Y+A$Lt 9' '      !°c

21

MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.

"No man ought to know better nor
sanswered Nick. "Thie gal there," lie I
to Kitty, "seems to be turning' all s
colors. I allow she don't believe a word
Nick quietly removed his rifle fro
shoulders and 'placed it against the wall,
reach. Kitt,'s checks grew burning red.
kept her urt er his observation pitilessly
I Don't believe a word of what ?" asked
mouth, somewhat eurtly.
- A word about her another's beim' a
replied Nick. I He paused an instant,e
one taking up the subject, hue continued
' Nor that she carries information to t
cesiers. Nor that she has private  m
with 'em, to put the necks of her neigha
to halters ; to accuse and to betray. ,
Nothii' o' the kind i"
You are too hard on Kitty, Mr. WI
raid Clari. "Kitty would not wilhingly
!i human beimg. I will answer for hes
and integrity. She would kndmigly ent
no compact that would endanger the pee
sttyt of Unaionu families." -
, f thank you, Clari," cried Kitty, th
her arims around Clari's neck, and com
hr glowim"g face upon her bosom.
grateful for your goodness," she staM
I know nothing of imtrigues, and I rec
enfidence that I can evade."
' That I am sure or, darling ." said
outhwimirly, kissing her white forehead.
Mr. Kmmouth looked and listened w
reading curiosity.
There's ano hriar  h  the gal," r
ick; " There's a,nitrcicruelty nor tre
mebr'wa-sh is childlike, true an
.But I remember very well how the
its was got out o' the fire, once onr
o cheer up, little'un, and don't thin
ie Whiffles meant to put you down,- o
mard on ye in the leastest way whatsome
ever was Iaird on gals. 0 Lord, no-i"
Nick spoke so kindly and genially, tl
ipulsive Kitty instimctively put out he
and in token of forgiveness. Nick cm
ached the tips of the dainty fingers, an
"All right, gal. I read your natu
weas a printed book. But your hone
art will get ye into condemned little
ts, if you don't look out fort, sooner o
omit meddle with other folks' secret
ern as has secrets keep 'em. Drop
a would hot shot. I had an ant on
is full o' secrets. They were stored a
I parts of her systuin, like mouldy
oam an auction-shop. They was crowd
r from attic to cellar, and she would
tim one on'e m for love nor money
asequence was," added Nick, lookimgl
the floor, "that she got so full tI
uldn't hold 'em. The last one kill
e bust, may aunt did."

you," I  Nick sighed regretfully. " Dreadful scandals
pointed escaped," lhe resumed, " when her flues col
orts o' lapsed ; and they buried her and her secrets as
I on't." quick as they could, in a gutta perch box. It's
mm his been said that women-folks 'couldn't keep se
within  erets;. but -myaunt, you see, give the lie to
Nick that, p'int bek, -and died from the onnatral
-.     strain on her orgins."
d Kin-   Kitty brightened up, hoping. that Nick's sus-
picions were directed into the channel of hu-
rebel," mor, and that his keen eyes had ceased to study''
and no her.            -
:         "She was onlike another female relative 
the Se- mine," Whiffles went on, "who had such a hor-
aeetii's aror o' secrets that she wouldn't go to bed with
bor in- one on her stomach, but out with it to the first
Oh no! neighbor that come in; and if no good gossip
didn't core in, she'd on with her bonnet and
iffles," shawl, and off she'd trot to peddle it out with
harm  additions and variations, and in this way gil
r truth relief for her tender conscience. You've heerd
er imto tunes fixed up with variations, so that they
ice and looked as if the notes had been sprinkled on
'em  from  a pepper-box. I knowed a nasty,
rowing cheese-eatin', German critter that hashed up
cealing 'Sweet home' in such a way that you couldn't
"I' am  tell it from 'Rory O'Moore'or 'Damiel Tucker',;
mered. and that was jest the way with that woman's
eive no secrets when she peddled 'ema out. There wasn't
no difference so to speak, atween ' Bonny Doon'
Clari, and 'Yankee Doo&amp;le', and 'twas the variations
that done it. You musn't rob a woman of her
rith in. variations. 0 noI sartain not."
"Come, Mr. Whiffles," interposed Clari. "I
esuimed won't allow that."
iachery   "Nor I, neither," quoth Nick. " A woman
d trust- can keep a secret. Nobody in the world is so
chest- keerful of a secret as a woman. If shIe feels
a time. iher strength a goin', and her secret in danger,
k that she'll git half a dozen cronies to lay hold on't a
r to be and help her keep it. If it gits away, it'll be
yer. I artery a condemned struggle, I tell ye. But,
Lord bless ye, most secrets ami't strong enough
hat the in the arms and legs. to git away when they've
r little once closed with 'em, and floored 'em, as it"-
arefully were. Howsomver, a secret is big enough to
td said: go alone when two respectable wbmen can't
r' as if carry it comfortable."        ,
at little  Nick Whiffles took out a handkerchief of an
diflikil- aniomralous hire, andu with an air of benevolence
r later. wiped his swarthy face. " But that's neither
a. Let here nor there,' he continued. " A story is a
'em as story, and a lie -is a lie ;,while 'theM uuth is jest
ee that as much a truth now as if it hadn't never been
sway ia spoke- since the world stood. As "I've stated
goods afore, there was a liar in the Whiffles family.
ed into and I've allers been glad'it wasn't me. ' But Y
n't part won't talk o' that now. One thing at a time is
y. The miy way. Never stop to make diversions to the
gravely right and left, and spin long yarns ; I don't,
hat she when- there's business to be done, though my
ed her. father was a great hand for that. I've knowed
him to stop, with his food halfway to his muthi'
1    4wn4~


22          MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.
to tell a condemned story that nobody on airth ripliy with ye ; and if you don't telieve it,,
could b'lieve without ovurstretchin his fakiities. you're a liar!' sez he.,
i.e had a heap o' family traditions. Used to  , "Seem' the old gentlemen was right wrathy,
tell about some of his ancestors, his gran'moth. I picked up my traps and started. I took to
her's gran'father, I b'lieve, catclhin' three hun- the bush, and didn't see him  ag'in for three
dred foxes and tyin' three hundred firebrands yearasarnd up'ards; and then I went bac  out
to their tails, and turning' 'em into his neighbor's o' sheer eur-esity to see if 'twas a Whiffles that
wheat-field to damage it-a capeetlhat callers was in the fish business. The old mant threw a
seemed to me onnat'rally foxy, so to speak. beaver-trap at me, and told me, to give him no'
Then there was another piece o' nonsense lie more o' my sarse. 'The Whiffleses is an old
used to relate for a fact, consarnin' a party o' family,' sez lie, in a pariental, nmusin' sort o'
hunters and trappers which crossed the Red Sea way. They've had a hand in everything as has
-on dry land ; a thing as was never done afore happened sence the beginnin' o' time. An an-
nor sence. Where that piece o' water is, I don't cestor o' mine was lookin over the wall at the
know, never havin' come acrost no sea o' that time the apple was eat. They builtibirch ea-
lartic'lnr color durin' all-my marvelin' up and noes, the Whifleses did, in the time o' the
down the Western kentry, where there's every flood, and paddled about right smart durin' the
kind of a sea that's worth mentionin'."     whole o' the shower. They was callers in diffi.
"'Father,' sez I, 'don't go on in that way,' kilty, but managed'to take care o' theirselves
sez I. 'It'll grow an ye,' sez L            tolerbhe comfortable: Your misb'lievin' mind,'
"' What'll grow on -me ?' sez he, kinder gruff. sez lie, ' will be .:eat damage to ye, at one
"'You'll git to b'lievin' on 'em yourself, one time or another . id pose you have heerd the
o' these days,' sez I.-story of forty b'ars carrying' off two old children
"'Nick, you rascal ' sez le. 'You young for puttin' their thum. bi to their noses at some-
heathen,' sez lie, a feelin' arter his cane, ' don't thin' their father tohl 'im?'
youb'lieve the Seripter ?' se he.            Nick paused again, and glanced about the
"'As fur as I know it,' sez I. ' But there room at his audience  Although lhe had been
wasn't no Scripter in our family, not as I'm  talking very pleasantly, there was a shade of
auweer on.'                                 anxiety on his face.     "
" 'The Whiffleses could do what anybody      Kitty was calm; her impulsive nature had
could do,' sez he, givin' me an ugly look. ' Pre- been soothed, by the unpmitentions rumors of
haps,' sez he, 'you wouldn't &amp;'lieve 'bout the the trapper., Kiumouth was the most serious
sun's stannin' still a couple -o' hours, so that a of the party.
s'rtaii great general could cut and slash among  Mountain Max, acquainted with Nick and Iis
his enemies,' sez he, 'and put 'cm to the pint ways, did not once withdraw his eyes from the
o' the sword.                                features of his old friend, but kept them fixed
Was that general' , any' of your folks, on the sinbrowned visage wit) visible expect-
fatheir"?' sez I.'"              .-         ancy.
"'fThat'e nothin' to you,' sez he, rather a," But what I was coming' at," said Nick, in a
sullen. ' As for y ou,- you pagan,' sez he;-'the voice that slightly faltered, "was this."
mn" iight (taui' still all day, and you wouldn't"- He took a slip of paper from his pocket, and
kill the vallyof a dozed red squirrels, let alone slowly unfolding it, advanced it nearer to tho
mitin' your nemises.'                       light, and seemed to read it.carefully.
W as lie a major-general,' sez I, 'or only a
common malitia -general, good for muster days   '       _CHAPTER VI.
aisd bFray tr'Ainin's?':r-'"                              RS KYNMOUTTI.
"'aNic,' sea he, frownin', 'you're old enough  Having-stared at this paper'an unreasonably
to take to the .woods. You're too old for my long time, Nick rose, and handed it to Kin-
f mily,' sez he. 'I can't have anybody round months-
at won't' swaller the ,family traditions. -Do  "I picked this up in the boy's camp," said
ot b'lieve that, a- fish swallered a man ?' sez Nick, with a nod at Max. "'it may throw som
ne, turning' on me mighty sharp.-, -   -,-   light on this here business, and I hope it will do
e Is it a test question?' sez I          nobody no harm. You needn't read, it loud,
Answer me,' sez he, as stern as lie could unless you want to; but prehaps youcan tell
speak..      nrwhat hand writ it. I- never could write much
"No more nor I believe that a man swallered myself. I allers made prison work on't when I
a fish,' sez I:                             writ to the gals, whmeu'I was a youn  man
"'wasa whale!' sez he, shaking his cane FHooks and trammels wasn't in my line,j allow
it me,,'                                     took naturally to the water, and some'at t
"'No man ever sw llered a whale,' sea I, whisky, but-never nat'rally to ink. I'm told tha
bNistli  meg up. e,                         no two handwritinas is exactly alike, and 11
br Git out o' my house!' sea lie. 'Aid don't swear that mine isn't the same twice in a twelve-
',iv r come back.' se lie,- And take the Apo,-  uorth. Now, that bit o' paper seems innocent

I

MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.

enough to look at, but there's a heap o' conse-s
quences in it.  It give Max a dreadful sweat; it
scared these gals, and it brought you within dn
inch o' your life ; and not your life either, but
your death."
Robert Kinmouth received the    -per with an
unaccountable foreboding, and grew      notably
pale the moment lie examined it.  Clari watched
every change of his countenance.
" I will read it," said Kinriouth, in a sup-
pressed tone. "Fairness to Max Bosworth re-
quires that the contents be known to him."
He read as follows:
"GENERAL PRiCE: -As you know, I am secretly the
friend of the Confeieracy, and you may always rely on
my friendship and fidelity. ."Iincur some riskin writing
these lines, but trust that I have managed matters so
adroitly, that those around me are entirely ignorant of
my sentiments. I have discovered that the person called
Mountain Max, a sharpshooter from California recently
arrived, is lurking about in the woods two or three miles
above here, waiting for one Nick Whiffles, who is daily
expected, at the head of a band of Union desperadoes,
from the mountains. I think that Alick Harker, with
some of his bushwhackers..might easily surprise and
capture this fellow, Max, who is reported to be particu-
larly daring and dangerous. Tie quicker these pestilent
Unionists are exterminated, the better. I've no doubt,
general, but you will soon free Missouri from Yankee
rule. My husband, I regret to say, sympathizes with
the Northern fanatics ; but I trust that my loyalty will
be sufficient to save him from the halter. Tear this into
a thousand pieces as soon as read. I have disguised my
hand; but some people, you know, have sharp eyes, and
I would not be unveiled until I have done the Confedera-
cy essentialservice.  Yours for Southern rights,
"A FRENaD."
In a posteript was added:
"Tell your people to respect the life and property of
ely husband. At heart, he is really a good man; and I
wouldn't have him hanged for the world !"
"_A  kied' and considerate soul, whomsoever
she may be !" said Nick, dryly.
.    nuouths did not stir ; he continued to gaze
at the paper.
" Let me see it," faltered Kitty.
" No," answered Kinmouth, quickly, "it is
not necessary."
Clari continued to observe her father, but did
not speak. A painful silence ensued. Max wan
mystified ; -but there was a quiet gleam of in
telligence in Nick's eyes.
"Father ?" said Kitty, persuasively, holding
out her hand.'
"I tell you, No !" said her father, with stern
ness.
"I never knew him to be so cross," sighe
Kitty, nestling to Clari.
"Snub your cur'osity, little woman," quoth
Nick.   " Cnr'osity is a bad thing     in  gals
'You've got the pith on't, and what's the good o
I okin'?  Writin' is writin', and it can't be n
Snore nor les snor that.".   ,            -
"I heave a dreadfu -suspicion," nihispere
Kitty to Clari. "Dear Clari, do say somethigue
Bay that somebody you know is good and trot
and the friend of all."~-
" All that you wish, dear," murmured Clari.

"And yet thue truth is truth, and must be met
sometime," responded Kitty, with a shiver of
terror.
"Hush ! Mother has returned. I hear her
voice without. She is giving oilers to the serv-
ant about the care of her horse," said Clar,
with a nervous start.
Kinsmouth crushed the paper in his hand, and
thrust it into his pocket. The door was opened,
and a fine-looking woman entered, followed by
a-stout negro. The lady was Mrs. Kiunmouth,
and her black attendant was the boy called
Splayfoot.  The skirts of her riding-habit were
gathered up gracefully in her left hand, while
in the right she carried an elegant riding-switch.
She paused near the threshold, cast a quick and
penetrating glance at every face ; then, with re-
markable self-possession, naade a very becoming
obeisance to the company. Each crsbun  ica-
cut mutely acknowledged a conmmannding mind,
and a brilliant and iacnmating woman. Kim-
moutt felt his heart beating hard against its
mortal boundaries. his love struggled with Lit
pride and his honor. Pretty and graceful w orI-
en have certain immunities-a tacitly-rendered
courtesy and allegiance. . Open-handed numaal-
hood gives it spontaneously and without grudg-
ing; and Mrs..Kinmoutli enjoyed a monmenary
triumph, though intuitively conscious that som.-
thing out of the comnimn routine of life had.tc-
curred.
Both Clar and Kitty east an unquiet and in-
quisitive look at their father. Kin outh um
outwardly calm. Though taken ata disadvan-
tage-by the suddenness of his wire's entrance,
he quieklyrallied, and showed himself equal to
the occasion.
" You ride late, Ilelen,"  e said, somewhat
icoldly.  " The roads are no  e, anid the day
should furnish light enough  your equestrian
excursions.  Nor is it pruaent to expose your
health to thme night air."
a You are quite right, Robert," answered Mr'.
I Kinmuenth, ingenuously. "I-expected a scold-
s ing, and, to speak the truth, desert  one. But
- you have s t4 bccn alone, I percei e."
She 'glanced at Max and Nick Whifiles; to
her eyes went quickly back to the first. Ob-
servant and appreciative of ars theihmgs, the un-
- common physique of Bosworth dik, not escape
her notice.  A connoisseur was Mtgs. Kinmouth
d in manly beauty.  His frank and Auble counte-
nance impressed her favorably. She iuwardly
h hoped that they sho ld not differ on political
. subjects; but differ or not, she resolved to be
' tolerably well pleased with him, provided his
o sense was equal to his figure.
'-Mr. Bosworth. Mrs, Kininoth," said the
d courteous husband, iutr-oduetorily.
;.   Msrs. Kinmouth acknowledged the mountain.
rer graciously, and turned carelessly 'toward
hiek, who found less favor in his eves.  Kin-
mouth was embarrassed. Lusekily, he thought

n4. '

- f
Y4ep?  .. a9p     'kra7 M'r r:t6+.oa.l{,:,.-+4     ti '+" +         .t      a                i          .....ar        r                                                         -
,,,,           _.
. .kb,__.{     "Je.                  f._:' , ti               i\,. 1"- .X ..t                      3'     fly      .aA..__   y.         ..

{          iY^st'°i.i '       : n:U'"'f   i3         ' 5 .:i"+ ° S #' /+ "'   t a +, x4' . ._  -.'.rs- X,-...v ,xe .... ,a=t, ,.::'::'.i'.. ..... li3 aL by  Y.      , t.wF mw        .i.+  ,,.


241      "  MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK WIIFFLES ON TIIE BORDER
of the name of Nick's horse, and clapped it on  " So they tried to hang you, Robert," said
to the trapper without ceremony.           Mrs. Kinmiouth, musingly, lifting her riding.
"Mi. Swingfoot, Mrs. Kimmouth. Swingfoot avitclh as if to strike something she could see
from up river, somewhere."                  with her mind's eye.
Kinmuoutli coughed, to conceal his deception ;  "le has spoken the truth, U-en," answered
while Nick accepted the name of his horse with Kirnouth, gravely.
b coining meekness.                          "Aliek Harker :' queried Mrs. Kinnkuth.
Your most of'edient, Mr. Swingfoot," said  " Alick Harkter," said Kinmouth, wih his
Mrs. Kinmouth, with mock seriousness, drop- eyes fixed upon the ti i of his wife's foot, that
ping a courtesy so low that it would have been peered - daintily frmnm beneath the sweeping
grotesque in a woman less graceful.         habit. A woman knows what mill tell on her
"'till 'death do us part," -quoth Nick, with a side of the question. Charming women have
mild mrotion of the hand, and not in the least charming ways. Homely women have homely
put downri iby the lady's over-politeness.  ways. Mile sight is always 'ready to sacrifice
Mrs Kinmouth had whirled from Nick with a reason to that one sense- at least, for the time
sharmriung flirt of her skirts ; but when she heard being. Mr.:Kinmouth was a very firm man, but
his eahm rjoinder, she gave him a quick look a charitable and considerate -man, also. He
over her shoulder.                         could not help glancing from mother to daugh-
In these troubled times, Mr. Swingfoot," ter, and front daughter to mother again. They
she remarked, with a felicitous mingling of the were wondrously like in - person.  Mr. Kin-
burlesque and the serious, "death often parts mooush choked down his-feelings, and made a
people unexpectedly."                      generous margin for political acer bities and
You are quite right, my lady," responded partisan zeal.
Nick, with unusual courtliness. T' I've kuowed  " Ill be even with him I" said Mrs. Kinmouth,
folks that was quite well in tihe mornin', hunted compressing her lips, and striking her skirt with
down and hanged afore nght."              her switch. " See if Aliek Ilarker don't answer
There was something -in th-e tones of Nick for this insolence t"
that startled the ears of Mrs. Kinmouth.'     " One might nat'rally be xcused for skin'
- True," she replied, with an affected shiver. how ?" observed Nick, with a calm assuranoe'
Dreadful things will sometimes happen."   that could be put down by nothing human.
".Your husband can take his oath o' that,  Mrs. Kinmoth had the prestige and all tie
mum,' s;ril Nick. " The secession bushwhack- elements of'an adept ; .but Nick's simple re-
era have been 'here, and there'd beetr a hrang ini' mark confused her. She Ferceived in an instant
in your own family, if it hadn't been for the her false estimate of the man. ,he was con-
pirovidernce o' God."  -          ,     ,   scions that no oi-dinary character was observig
A hot flush suf'used Mrs. Kinmouth's face. her', 'nd weighing her in the balance.
Conscious guilt, Nick thought, revealed itself in  "If the punishment falls on him, ito matter
her hot ehreelks. One moment she was silent. how," answered Mrs. Kinmouth, with a dignity
She bit her rosy lip with her white teeth ; then, that was really superbb, T aen, to her husband
looking steadily other husband; was mistress of' "Ro bert, 1 am greatly disturbed. Wlatye.-'~~~~~
hersei' again. .                          have told me fills nci with terror. I must i now
"Robertn sie exclaimed, " what has Ihap- the Particulars. " Excuse we, genth men"-she
pued ? 1 see signs of confusion there. Speak, looked at Max-" 'or'-a few moments, while 1
lRtobert !" She advanced a step, with every ap- make some ebanges in ny apparel. A riding-habit
penrabce of -solicitude. Kinmouti had hard' is rather eurharrassirg for;the' house. Kitty ?"
work to believe the convictions of his heart, as  --Ste muade a gesture to Kitty, and swept froe
sire stood before him, so beautiful, and appar- the room with that indeserib'ilc ease n:nd confi-
euty so earnest.                         (ence wo'ich a graceful ind thorough woman of
"Sonme of our good nieighiboss have been here tire wor'l only car sieccessfully assume.
in your absence, Helen," ie answered. 'f They.
Were led on by that scoundrel, Aliek IHarker,           CIHIPTE'R VIII.
and fine work they have rmaade in the house.              -    ITTY.r   -
They made'war on innocent wardrobes.; and   Kitty looked 1'esitatiiigly at her father, and
you will find your own and yone daughter's ap- arose to follow Mr's. Kinmoulh.
parcel backed and mangled by these pillagers "  "Kitty ?" he said.
" *Izare not for the dresses," riod Mrs. Kin-  The girl stood -still. zKinmouth approach'
mouth. " Tell re if they threatened you'"  ed her, and addressed these words to heroin a low -
-''h'y di-.more nor that," interposed Nick Voice..
Whiffles. "There'd been a prison difikilty if I  "These are times, my daughter, when we are
ladn't come jest as I did., They was goin' to obliged to practice the'utrinost'prurdence. "Life,
h:rnBg hui fromt his own chamber-winder. But property, anid happiness are at hazard.  Mrb,
I pult a stop to that. I nid, by inighty I And Kinimoruth will ask you ninny qu stions concer-
tue merir ekunks skedal lied." ig the stirring tr'an'antions of the evening.

.MOUNTAIN MAX;, OR, NICK WHIFFL'S ON TlE BORDER.                           25
You need -know only that a. fugitive Unionist mother. I can talk just as well while you're
sought safety here, was befriended by Clari; busy," answered, Kitty, evasively.
and, you may truthfully add, was discovered by  "Let me feel your paws, Puss!" laughed
Harker and hirs inmn."                      Mrs. Kinimouth, taking her hand. " How vel-
Ile stopped an instant, then added        vety they arc! One can hardly feel the ineipi-
It is not expedient that Mr. Bosworth et claws through the soft pile. You are a
should be identified with the  person called very harmless creature, as yet, Kitty.  And as
Mountain Max, nor that the man whom I intro- for your wit, you haven't a particle to spare.
miuced as Swingfoot should*be known for the You are inot old enough to deceive a wise
present as Nick .Whiffles.' There are reasons grinalkiti like myself.  You want to get out
wiry this deccpt on should be 'practiced with fronr-under my eyes, and tell rme an artless,
your mother.  Do 3 ou understand ?"           pretty story, while I am bchanging ,my - dress.
I don't kunwirv," she stammered.  "There It never'll do  Don't waste your feeble pow-
are soec things that I am afraid to understand. 1ers, girl. There is not wit enough ii the tan-
I incan well, father ; but I am weak and impul- ily to ,make actresses of both of us. Something
sive. I love you both so much! I want to very serious has trasnrspired here. Now, what is
obey and oblige both. It places me so awk- it?   Down, down, anrd jirake a clean breast !"
w'ardly, father' !"                            Mrs. Kinmonth drew Kitt y down upon a
Her voice trembled, and she looked at him   cushion at her feet, so that she could look
timidly.                                     straight into her eyes.
Be strong for the right," said Kinsmouth,  " Come, little foot ! Begin to tell rue the lie
kissing her fo'hreid. "Go to your mot her ; your father told you to tell."
she waits. Be subtle, my little Kitty, for once  The lady was very quiet, yet very full of that
in your life. Be like Clari."                self-sustaining - assurance that so surely over-
Ile glanced at Clari vith evident pride.   cones resistance,
" Impossible !" liurmured Kitty. " Clari is  " I was not hero at the time tire trouble com-
so strong, self-possessed, and self-reliant, while mcneed," began Kitty ; " but Clari was. Clari
I am so weak, wavering, and uncertain of my- can tell it tire best."
self. It's a terrible thing to biep constituted , Mrs. Kininoith gave her a little out with the
that we wish to give nobody-pain. Bunt I'll try, whip, an-l rauttered, "Pshaw ! Go on."
fatherhI' I'll try to be dr-cal'ully deeb !"- .  P semas, however," conin'-ed Kitty, i'that
And with the most honest and amiable f-ae to a uTaiorsnranu was pursued by sormie Secessionists.
be found, Kitty ran after her mother. lHurlry- and took shelter in the house. Clari hid hhm
ing rrp-stairs to Mrs. Kinmouth's chamber sine inl the wal, n :rd when IHarker came, she couldn't
found her seated, waiting for her rather imra- -tell where he _was. They-made horrid threats,
tienly. She: had yet made, riot the slightest an"d finally were going to murder father 'unless
change  minaher toilet, and sat -gently whipping she weuld tell. The villains got a rope and put
her Irabit with her switch. ,                it around his neck, and it was very, very-fright-
" Well, Puss:y ?" said $r;s. inmouth, care- ful i I thought I should die!''
lessy1 .                                     j  " Wouldn't Clar speak ?" asked d Mrs. Kin-
W erll, mother ?" replied Kitt', demurely, moutm,. quickly.
without trusting herself to eneounten tine bright  "Sire was dreadfully agitated, and frillier be-
eyes-of her mother.                          gan to believe that there was s')mebody hidden
"Thrit, rakes Lvtwo wells ; and ao wells, anc- i  the hIouae.  o -he told -ier if there was,
cording to tihe old proverb, make a rsver .Whruat arInd  inewas ai9ol Union aman, and was younger
did you loiter for ?"                        anrl stronger tian he, not to  betray  him.
I caie right along," aid K4g, notvcry \\h:le Claari stood, with clasped hands, in fearful
promptly.                             7 r,.  In eerta nty, MonImtahp Mnz-"
4Cone here, you little dune   artd I  t mrie  . Mrs Igngr ohn sstarted nervously.
dust yotrjaicket for fou!h" said Mrg.  nnuthb  " What's the matter, other ?'
with 'playful norrchalrmmhrge, gent stnil g; her  -"Go on," sii ]rs. Kinmornthr, bending to-4
shoulders with her switch., "You can't lie, ward Kitty with eagerness. "Mountain Max P"
and you know it."                           { "It any a little. before my story,?' continued
" WIy should I lie ?' apawered thm girl, mte. Kitty. "'It turned out, after rid, that those!
tempting to parry Irer mother'saentrutness.  shockinglu§hwharsld started-a man called
" Don't measure swords with me, Pus§" con  - Mountain:Mag  lately from  the gold mountatrins
tiuredl tihe lady, iore semriouily-  You :knrow  of California-anrd," stud added, gatheringoour-
I'm  the cleverest at etch -exercise, J uust age,:"not so urceh fromn the gold -mountains, I
know.wlat heas taken placebc'e.  tig nieces- slotild thinl,;ss- from  the gi:izzly bear moun-
sary that I should i'nmmediatply be informed .of tains---Awlhom they-had surprised'somewhere ip
everything that has happinedz during ipy ate- tihe river. And the person whom Clar ~had'
sence.                                       bidden was ie. IIearing whet had been said,
" Better' take off your hat and gruntlets, this Mountain Max burst from hi'ooncealment,

"f
f

", ,
;
- ,._

«     ? '                                    Q:.Z.,+ H                 1X"a, .n-        4    r_.._. ..    ...,.-,. -.,, ., :,',r'}    i-Y' ,,,      J±s .            T 4r'^ty7.;  r-w-. sMa "°.t!".. .. .!+,T  + wY"   r..  : G,..-r.t- ,., \  'J'            '       r'--,  ,
His      ze.,                                                                                    .,               .-       _       -, ,.             '  .,.                 ,     :_ SL"snz E'              .. 5".e±"'°'yy7 u  ...     -.            d

t                                       Y              ,,,  r  «4°ff :5:


28      MOUNTAIN MAX; OR,'NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.

to save father, and relieve Clari from her
dreadful embarrassment."
Mrs. Kinmounth wias now sotnewhrat pale. She
listened to Kitty's words with earnest attention.
"He acted splendidly, Mountain Max did !
He sprang toward lather, whom they had placed
in the window, ready to push out"-Kitty
shuddered-" drew him away from the danger,
and knocked one of the men who was holding
him, right through the window."
The fair narrator stepped, and recalled her
,father's instructions.!
" What happened then ?" queried Mrs. Kin-
mouth, compressing lier lips.
"So lie saved father's life," added Kitty.
"And what became of this Max ?"   ,
" They tool; him away," replied Kitty, won-
dering at her own powers of dissimulation."
"The Secessionists took him away. And about
that time the men below game, but not soon
enough to do any good.".
"Bosworth and that keen-eyed man in buck-
skin ?"e
Yes," sail Kitty.
"Strange that a man should have the same
name as his horse !" said Mrs. Kinmouth, mus-
ingly.
"Same name as his horse?" repeated Kitty,
coloring consciously.
"As I passed the tables just now, I saw a
strange horse, covered with a red blanket, on
which was painted, in black letters, the name
'Swingfoot'.  Now, was that the man's name
or the horse's name ?"
Mrs. Kinmouth got Kitty's eyes under hex's,
and held them steadily.
"I should think so," murmured Kitty, rather
irrelevantly. "Father introduced him, you
know ? Father wouldn't have introduced him,
you know -"
Kitty took ler eyes away suddenly, and let
theim droop to her mother's chin.
"You never will be able to tell-lies ingenuously,
my.poor little girl !" said Mrs. Kinmouth, with
a sigh. " Just under the word 'Swingfoot',"
she went on. "were the initials 'N. W.'"
" 'N. W.' I" murmured Kitty, with hot cheeks.,
"Perhaps it means North West."
" Or New World, or Night Walker ." added
Mrs. Kinmouth, mockingly. "Or, more proba-
bly, Not Warranted 1 It cannot mean Nick
Whriffies "
Mrs. Kinmouth laughed, but it was a troubled
laughs.
Kitty showed guilt, and with a downward
glance, expressed the opinion that " Not War-
ranted" hooked reasonable.-
"Catharine Kinmouth, stop equivocating!"
said the mother, sharply.  " What does it
suffice. You are but a jointed doll in my
hands. I can take you all apart in a minute !"-
i And hput me together again, I suppose,"
sighed the gil.

"Come, my child, be frank," continued Mrs.
Kinniouth, with most winning tenderness of
manner. "You have done your duty to your
father, although your blushing falsehoods fall
harmless at my feet. You are an honest, single.
minded, well-meaning girl, and nothing b't
simple truth sits easily on you. I wish you
could intrigue a little ; that von had iore art,
and were more of'my mode of thinking. Poli-
tics don't seem to get into your head at all; or,
if they do, they get in at the wrong side. Re.
billion is the thing for us, my dear. With
rebellion comes war, and war, though terrible
in some respects,-is brilliant with -heroia deeds
and gilded with history. The Confederacy is
'War'. Let it come ! 'Those who survive it
will have tales to tell. The South has cast off
her allegiance to the Constitution, and will
never go back to its bondage again.    The
Federal power will be shaken and overthrown!,
Mrs. Kinmouth spoke in a grave and earnest
fashion. Kittyiregarded her with awe.
" I wish you ha the courage," the lady went
on, presently, "to help me."
" In what way, mother ?" Kitty asked.
"By carrying a certain message to a certain
place."
The girl instantly thought of the letter she
had seen, and became very pale.
"What! terrified already ?' exclaimed Mrs.
Kinmouth, with a toss of contempt.
" We ought to be careful what we do," ob.
served the daughter, significantly.
" Of course, we ought ! Iy am suspected, I
suppose ? There was -a certain awkwardness
upon you all as I came in. I felt it immediate-
ly. I. am  not to be deceived, Catherine.  I
shall be watched in future. I cannot go out
again to-night, therefore, I must.evyenrasiy
messenger ; and you=shall be that messenger."
"I ?" exclaimed Kitty, thoroughly surprised.
"You, ' my little girl," said her mother,
quietly.
" Leave the house at this time of night ?
^You cannot mean it! I have not a particle of
courage, and never had.".' Kitty looked at Mrs.
-Kinmouth with dilated eyes.
" You have courage, puss, but don't know it,"
she said, with insinuating tenderar - toying
with'the-girl's hair.
The latter shook her Tead.
."At your mother's bidding, you will be brave
as the bravest. We have always been good
friends, Kitty. I have never claimed authority
over you, but that of love. -I am sure you will
not refuse to comply with a request that con-
cerns my personal safety. You would not care
to see me harmed."
Mrs. Kinmouth's splendid eyes beamed elo-
quently upon her daughter. Kitty raised her
m other's white hand, and kissed it reverently
and affectionately. She rendered silent hoinage
to her brilliancy and beauty'.

0   9
yS
L S.

MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.                           27
I        - will vrie a note," continued -Ars. Kin- I  " Kitty! Kitty ?"
moth? " which you shall conceal on your per-  Kitty remained silent.
on. Before witings however,  will put off  The knocking and the calling were repeated,
this habit. aid you shall put it on. It will fit then Clan went away. Kitty was relieved by
you citarniuigly'.Come, off with your muslins,- her departure.  She was in utter darkness.
ariid     n g-ast outside as quickly ai you will. The time seemed long, and she was weary with
Here goes hat; here goes skirt ; now for t standing. She groped about for a chair, and
struggle ith the buttons; here gobuttons and sat down, full of apprehension.  She ias glad
necktie and here go I out of the whole I"   to hear the key tur and the door open.
kitty arose, and during the denuding pro-    "Courage, Puss!" said Mrs. Kinmouth. "
Sa, at h             ntie                have been detained by the person your father
'stood sta ingt her nio t    shall have to calls Swingfoot. There's art in that bro'wn-facedi
take hold. 1-re's at you " Mrs. Kinmouth fellow. Ihate his little gray eyes! It's all
behan rith Kitty, who offered "but slight re- right, now.. You must go out at the side door,
istinca, aid soon became passive in the adroit and walk directly toward the trees. where yo '
ii.''ternal hands. In a sortof wondering stupor, will find Splayfoot with the horses.  Splayfoot
sne ltloed herself to be put into her mother's should go with yoi, tint I have an instictivg
hsht, hatted, ad gloved.  Then the mistress feeling that he 11 be watched."
oh these ceremonies wrote a note with notable  "Watched for hat?' asked Kitty.
.f iity, folded, aind sealed it carefully.    Mrs. inmouth colored set down her lamp
.Pt it where girls carry their love-letters," then took it up and lighted another by it.
sai 1 Mrs. Kinmouth, archly. Kitty mechani-    "People are suspicious of cvery body now-a,
ly unbuttoiied lir corsage, ard put the'note days.  Slaves, you know, may be tampered
in len bosom.                                with. Folly will do, I think. I have bribed
Now, remain here till I eme for ou," her, at any rate. Sally Dowse is the pump-
wl led Mrs. Kinmouti. '- Mjlayfoot shall bring  handle that I fear the most. But Sally has
the horses round to the side door, when the gone to bed, and I hope that some pestilent
coast is clear."                            fever will keep her there for the next three
Stop, otherr" faltered the girl.  "I will weeks. She's too Northern for me, that crea-
not go, unless you will swear to me that this ture is. I excei ate and detest every bone in
errn  will iarin no one."                her body !"
err Wisld aInhnone any one ? Be not so. -Mrs: Kinmouth .frowned irefully, and her
distrustful. I aim not a wicked woman, I think. pretty mouth was, for an instaiit, distorted with
I'll swear, however, as much as you like.  Folly overmastering aversion. Kitty had never seen
shall go with you."                         such a face on -her mother. She was startled.
"Folly  enough.'" murmured Kitty.   -    She wondered what strange mood had seized her.
"I'll instrnet you where to go, by-andby.' " Don't stare, little dunce?  Your wit is a
a         kep your wits abort you, and not slow coach. .I have a born hatred of everything
forget."                                    that is Northern-with the single exception of
The girltshi.vere 1.                       dry-goods from Ne*v York.  We can buy their
" You are thinking of the night, and the trumpery stuff the same as we buy things of
darkness, and tre danger !"  "Dispel such fan- dirty Jew peddlers. Yankees are supremely
cies.  The girl, Folly, will keep you from  groveling and low."
thinking-of such things, an&amp; the distance is not  The deeper part of Mrs. Kinmouth's charae-
hunu.                                      ter was getting into action. Her impulses were
'Mrs Kidmontli drew ou a -iandsome wrap- ready to bear her along.
per, kissed Kitty, glided' from  the chamber,  "My charming fool! How I pity your apa-
closed the door, and locked her in.         thy!t You should hate Yankees! You don't
know the luxury of hating Yankees ! To hate
CHAPTER VIII.                  Yankees is the Southern rage. I hate them
PARLTING WORDS,               with all my soul !
Ktty had sensations. Sensations are both    Mrs. Kinmouth elenehed her white right
'ommoi and cheap, but iot always agreeable. hand, and, set her white teeth together. Her
Never Was the girl so singularly placed.  Nat- lips looked as if they had been jointed with roe-
ural affection for her mother struggled with eianical nicety.
natural tiiity .gof character -'The times were  "Mother, you terrify mne !'"cried Kitty. " I
unsettle, anidith roads particularly unsif'e, never heard you talk so before. I thought cv-
especially at night.She ad a great horror of erybody liked Sally Dowse. She defended us,
Seessioa plng.rers and outlaws. While she to night, bravely.
was picturing torerseaf the terrors of a noe- "How well I like her, she shall know by-and-
turnal encounter with such-some one knocked by !" retorted Mrs Kinmouth, impetuously.
at the door, and pre ently she leard- the voice "I have got things in working prder. When I
of Cli                                    put my hand on lier, she will know it."

.$

F


MOUNTAIN      MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON TIIE BORDER.
When Urs. Kiinmiouth said, " put my hand I observed. She saw no one? at least, and that
onh iher", she looked ccike one of those fallen an- was good evideite that site wistnt watched.
gels whose glory is gone, but whose brightness She found Splayfoot with the Ioses, as alto a4
lingers,                                     been led to expect, ad  moitted precisely as
Kitty gazed at ier' with parted lips. Ier shte had beei instrnted. The dpeittl  coward
mother changed her expression like the glane- meant to follow her instructions to the letter,
ig rays of he si -.                        and make faithfulness to details Btand in the
"eled ue not, dear! It is time for you to place of courage.
go. Pass down the stairs very softly. Yoe      The negro girl Folly was already there, and
will fnd the side dor ajar. What are yoU mounted on a diminutive asty which hind long
looking at, childi?"             *          bee  the peculiar  roertoy f      a    o
"This habit-isn't it Clari's ?'            Folly was neither a witptier'a fool ; ieeeh .
"A attend to what I am  saying. You will ter, like a pendulum, vibrated bet-ecen the two
fand the door ajar. Go out qiiety, and mout  points. Sie was all sorts of a contraband. She
siletlyfthnVtfro 11.t)ist ane 'begiy Fslyhws flliod.t ,Iischefgidl-iedsFollywilwas ferebllreofufiutedt, Smischieffu a$landasidle, w esnoi.cn She twase
will lie there before youi, mnouint ed on Sally's faithfuil as bog as there ws no -t etSe was e
little Ilnlian Pony. Go down the Bluff road tray ; honest, as lone- as liosesty inas no trouble.
about half a mile, than turn to the left through She did not care what happened, -so long as she
an oak opening.    You .may remember that remained personally safe c      d unharmed. SIte
t-here is a beaten track there-follow it. At liked to ho sly aid comfortable. She had ii-
the distance of,three quarters of a mile, you numerable tricks and odd humors that could
will reach a deserted cabin.  A person will be be tracer to tio probable cause, which i.ften
wMtoiig your appearance there, to whom you brought her to grief, and irritated the self-sus-
will deliver the note.  When you have deliv- taming Sally to the last parallel of enddraice.
ersed the note, return immediately  without    Folly had been bought for a trifle at "..
peatkingy to the person receiving it. Let Folly Louis; but was not in the least east.down I C.
rr uin a little behind you when you see the cause'she was a cheap chattel. Though of; it
eln, that site may not witness the passage of taunted by the other servants with heitig
t1' note. Can yosu remember all this, Kitty ?" " low-priced nigger", she never, on anc ocet-
I can remember it well enough, but 1 doubt sion, displayed temper or the slightest emsi-
f°.E   11- courage.. But I will do my best. I will tiveness on the subject. Although she was it
'ii                           bv                   ojalt               gwe time that I ant serving you. You good-looking, she was good-natured, and it ws:ts
rit- sire tlc'heis nothing to harm any one in her untiform 'good nature that made her tch r-
t   errant                             '   ated by the Kinmouth household,
Ite looked earnestly at her mother.        Attended by this singular compound of ii-
"" Certainly not! Aut I not a woman ?"  - mantity, Kitty gathered (lie flowing reins till
Ire. Kinmouth's face became soft and kindly her horse was full in hand, and set out on. et-
ictpuression.                             mysterious errand. 'ft was not the kind of e17-
1 thought," stammered Kitty, "while you panionship she would have chosen, for Kitty
Erte gone, and I was standing here in the dark, had a wholesome fear of Folly, notwithstanding
wit1 h no mortal eye ott me, that perhaps-that the grninig cleverness of lier mouth.
p.,: 4i  -",                                  "Now, Folly, if you behave well," said Kitty
WVhile litty faltered, Mrs. Kinmouth kissed coaxingly, "-ou are to have soinething whit a
hr t enderly upon both cheeks and gently push- we get back."
d hI r frtotis the chamber.                    "Don't want noffin' I" said Folly, briefly.
Yu arec so irresistible, mother!" murmur-  " But ydu- shall have a present, ndeverthe-
the girl, full of love and admiration. "How  less," added Kitty.
ct one help going where you wish her to, go ?  " Got too man'y them  yer presents, -now.
I will do whatever you bid me.   You must 'Lor'! I's ful o' presents. ~ What's the use ?
ie' hearts ache, dear other !  I pity the Ain't no use ! Die and leave 'ems all, 3-e know ?
t mtie. who comes under your smile and the light I'm, gwine to lay up my treasures above . Guess
(vtlour eve."                         '     there's rohn enough for 'em dar!"
s li-s. Kiimiouth kissed the rosy lips that pro-  Kitty heard the girl laughing in thi Iappiesi:
rneed these flattering words, then put a lamp manner.
K:i  itt..'s hands land stood at the top of the  "No moths dar; no rust, 11o kind c' bu
a:airs till she had flitted down them and out of Dar's'the pladetto keep things. COarl' di tr tek.
t.She house-white folks! De nigs am goin'bone!"
Folhy had been to two or threecamp-meetins
CIAPTER IX.                . in the course of her life, and she never cotih
ON THE ROAD.                 succeed in getting them out of her head. ' Came-.
Kitty's heart was in a strange flutter as sle meeting remjiiiscences haunted ler continually -
passed out into the darkness. She made, as and played fantastic parts in her groteep
She believed, the short passageto the trees un- character.

I;

415

MOUNTAIN MA-X;,OR, NICK         WHIFFLES ON TIlE BORDER.                    29
"Curb your tongue, Folly, for this is not.a   "l's allers in trouble! .I wish I was in do
time'for idle talk," answered Kitty, rebukingly. land of Canaan. Glory, hallelujah! My soul's
"We are in danger, and something may happen   marehin' on.
to us before we get back."                      Folly broke off as if she were very brittle,
e I 'speet there will, Miss Kit-Lor'! I almost antiheaved a' camp-meeting groan,, so heavy in
knows thar will. I feels it in my bones. Fact volume'anl so dolorous in toie, that it sent the
it, de Jeff Davis Cont' derators will jes' come blood tingling to Kitty's extrnities. She was
down on us, and car' us el'ar off, do Jesus- prepared to see Ahien: larger atnd his outlaws
knows wot- " arisewup before her, full of wickedness and vio-
lu [sh, girl ! don't go on in that strain. - You lence.
should alvays-speak encouragingly and nake     Folly slyly checked her pony, and misehiev
the hest of things,' said Kitty, tartly.      ously allowed her stress to go on some yards
S at's so, if,'twasn't for tie conscience, miss. in advance. Kitty missed her presently, and
But i s got a consciencei, miss, dat's don  gotne was greatly perplexed. She addressed the girl,
bitr enouglt for two. Des 'y:at' woodscs, Kit, rinn but received ito:atswer. Site stopped ter' horse,
fill o'- rebelhiotirs.. L  a If thar's anything and Folly simultaneously stopped her pony. It
that seats inc quivering like a bowl o' jelly, it's was very dark, the trees towered gloomitly obovo
them yer Cotnfederators. They wouldn't make her, and her situation was really lai lul. She
xtoela o' gobbli' up a dainty little bit of a regretted.that she had undertaken such a serv-
Unioner gal like you. How dark do trees am! ice. Shie heartily wished herself it home with
'Pears like there'll be thunder and shatpenitt'. Clan. She called the ittnemof her attetdait,
But dat yer's of no 'count. Like to see it strike and after repeating it several times, got in
de big pinies!"-                              answer   'a             i    u    gnalm
Folly pretended) to, shiver, but lier white  "'ajeb' atitid, Miss Kit. Ronf i  ain  a limb,
teeth were roguishly' gleaming through   her and got brustei. right offis yet oIiginfepoy,
thick lias all the while.' -Site crowded closer to Samos if l's a fly. Itougit 'twas a Coildeilacy.
her raistress. and managed to run lier Indian Hope you haven't been skcered. Couldn't help
ony against hir stirrup-foot, and seriously en- it more noflin . Took away my breath. But 1
danger her equilibrium. .'                   don't ear. . My souls marebtin' ot
"Vexatious creature !" -exclaimed Kitty.  " I  With these zleeittii wo tls, Folly started the
sh you wotul he careful, girl.  Instead of pony, and was soon ambling      alotg beside
giving you tmy coral necklace, as I intended, I Kitty.
think I shall have you pushed when I get
ho:ne."                                                      CHAPTER X.
"tel ye twhat, Miss Kit, dat yer's better for  ErtrY BECOMES IER OWN MoTHER.
tme than t"other tling.  Yotsee I can't lay- up  Kitty'syheart beatritrely ;'it thuniped against
no corral hteklates hove, but 'whippin's I's  ts batsa e rt ptlpiitated withinttit t narrow bound -
ttad      t    on.   in dioiitt oin deis'yet', atd 'ariesi it throbbed withlfear. Nunrois famcies
they makes us so much better, too ! White went flying through her br.uit.       the Itd bitt
folks ivon't stau' no ebariwe, "kase why they  one'coinserVative element to save her, ald that
isn't walloped enough below.: Lor", Kit, de was love for her mother. That exalted emotion
whippins of dJis yer world work out de glory !"  pervadin'g all her being beat bhvkwiit  fatllte i-
Kitty dii not answer, fhnking silence tle eroachments of terror, aid kept her from falling
best (iy of e1eeking her garnility. Hei' tihid- from her saddle in sheer fright..
ity iieireassei at eve  step. The road,-wasg   Stie turned to the left, iteerd ing to ilirectionms,
lonely ani1 dark, ani she had no one to piotdet and quickenieg Ier pace, icareil the designated
her but this ehatte'itig, girlttanilher own-inno- goal. It grew lighte. Pahe-starlitgimir.
once.                                        ed through the trees. Sie looked  tintinsy or
" i'll lie," whispred'Folly, abruptly, with'a the deserted ncahi. It appeared, fitiilly, after
well-anted start, "if I 'didn't think -'I seed a -he began to fear tat se- had passed it.
C-onffederaev !".  L                            "IRemain here" she said to Ftll ', " till I re-
' Where'?" gasped Kittv...                 turn.- My et-rand Is to that small cabin."
lore, l:tr, eberfwhar ''                  " Glow',:Miss Kit l's afeard to ' stay aihind,"
Folly poitittil ratilly antd somewhat wildly in protester Folly.
every 'at'etiont, and butted her little Inditn  Do as I tell you.!" answered Kitty, with
pony hart' le than ever against lier-mistiress' more nerve than site usually dislila el.
stircupdob." Thie tiid 'litter-earrier shrieked  The girl reltetantly stopped, at Kitty pro.
with pain and fear, while the girl grinned like eeded.,,No encoiurgmiitg light stmetremd fom
an'ifip of darkness, 'a site was. -.         the little wimtdowv of Ime cahmi ; it seied tenant.
"You will-mtttseat',fle, yotteareless ape !" ex. less. She etke her horse tatd tloketl at the
clairme  Kitty. indihnahitty. "You are hurting door in silent expjectaicy, not uniitietd with in,
me: with dyotr awkwardness. " You are preparing credulity.  Would any  one appear?     She
yourself'for 1tunishient."                  thought not. When she had waited "a few m .-


' 4

80         MOiU TMN v M -L uJ;, i  i C 1i itL LES ON TlE BOR DER.

I,
'
r*
i    ,
;
;
t
.s
1

ments,. she moved her horse about, so as to
make a itoise ;.and this expedient proving un-
successful, sie summuoned courage to ride up to
the door and knock ; and a very timid, tremu-
lous knock it was.
It was a wonder that she kn'eked at' all ; but
t le same feeling of filial affection that had
hitherto sustained her, gave her resolution.
he tacked her horse.at once, surprised ao cr
oWit boldness.
The door was opened without delay, and aman,
in a colonels uniform looked out, and seeing what
kind of visitor lie had, gave a g:tllant military
salute, and came out. Kittystiffly returned his
salutation, and fumbled in her corsage for the
letter, which sIe presented in silence, and was-
turning away, when the officer addressed her:
" Stay, mnadam ! Leive cme not so hastily.
I was directed to meet you here, and receive
the note which I now hold in my standd"
" My errand is done, ' answered Kitty, " and
I must return.'".
"It is not lischt enough to read this little
mess-nger," said the officer', putting the note
in his pocket, " but I dare say it will keep till
morning. I thank you, mad:ti, for bringinit
it. If there were mure ladies of your zeal and
energy, our cause would not latnguiish. Though
personally a stranger to yon, your name is quite
fatmiliar to me. But, pardon mte, you are much
younger than I had expected ; although you
were described in the mst flattering manner
by the person with whom you have been in
correspondence."
Kitty was embarrassed, but said nothing. In
fact, she knew not what reply to make, for,,she
was now placed ina position that sip lad not
counted on. She thought of heryouthful face,
and regretted that site had not come vsailed.
"Be nut offended at my freedom," added the
man, perceivin.. that Kitty was confused., "If
1 manifested undue surprise because you un-
measurably surpass tlie-the-:,coutttsI have
heard of you, I an sure it is atu iipolitetkess
that a woman ought to pardon. The Confeder-
acy must prosper,. Mrs. Kinmouth, while we
have such fair friends and ajes."
"'You are disposed to flattery," said Kitty,
rallying. " You should bear in mind.that star-
light is deceptive."   .
"It deceives well in this case, at all events.
I wish there were more starlight ,in the world."
Kitty glanced at  he Confeder rte officer while
ie was speaking, and perceived that le hnd sa
good figure, and, so far as sIe could judge, a
gonod face. Site t~hiughtt there would be nto
harm in permitting iiin to reintain in his some-
what ludicrous error.  It was novel to be
admired as her owt mother. Site smiled at the
rare conceit.
"See me by sulighit, and you will change
your mind,"' she stamntered.
This change would be in your favor, I do

"h'CQ: 4b'~v_ '7'(d--   t  + 'i",

MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON TIIE BORDER.

81

nut doubt," returned the officer, quickly.  " But
teLine," lie added, adroitly changing the con-
vers.itioxn which h had the sense t o know could
not much longer be agreeable, " how are all
the good;people at the LliffY  I had hoped
they-would have different views ,when it eme to
this. Btit it seems that t here is but'one faithful'
among the Kinmouths, and that one a lady-n'
lady, I may truthfully say, as daring as she is
fair, as courageous as she is chart jig.'
The officer bowed in a courtly and respectfslk
manner.
Kitty was prudently mute ; but she heard his
testimony  concerning  the Kinmouths with
strange eagerness.
" General Price, he resumed, has spoken in
the highest terms of your services. ' Mrs. Kin.
mouth,' said lie, 'is full of Southern fire ; she
will stop at nothing. She hates Yankees, and
would die for our young republic.'
" Very young, indeed !" thought Kit tv, whose
attentive ears more than redeemed her silent
tongue.
" The other Kinmouths are different," lie went
on, with the air of one who was conscious that
his auditor knew all and more than he knew
about it, and would ieeeive with ' porrect com-
laisance the family ,portraits.  " Your bus-
and., mad atn, begging tour pardon, is a stub-
born Federalist-mild in .demeanor, but deeply
in earnest. He would hang sooner than re-
nounce. He would have been disposed of long.
ago, by the btishwlhaekers, had it. not been for
you, madam,."
Kitty shuddered. What a revelation was this!
" Then, there is Miss Kinmouth. I wish we
could lve had her. She. is said to be a young
lady of character; but, unluckily, it is on the- .
wrong side. She is beautiful, intellea i7,rad
self poised, These elements are excellent ; but .
she is not your daughter. The Northern poison
is in her veins.",
" Yes,!" sighed Kitty, a little hypoeriticai.,.
"After, Clari, Kitty," -added tie Confederate
officer, with a smile.., " What shall we say of,
Kitty, madan ?"
"The truth, by all means," answered Kitty,
hastily.
" Your daughter, Kitty ! .You are very good,
madam. What.s'hall 1.say?  Kitty is not Clari.
Not by any means! She is pretty; she is in.
nocenit ; she is-lIarming ; but Ki ty is a child.
She is a creature of-'in pulse-a lovely little
weathercockA which turns ever with the wind,
You sC, madam, that I am no strtanger to the
Kinmouths.",,
" You knot them but ,too well, sir!' Go on
with Kitty. Your frankness pleases mue, while,
at the same tinre, it assures men that von are what
you seeni,"' s.1 Kitty, with via; effort.
" protest fhat I will go'no farther! Kitty
is the declaiming cat's-paw  of her charming
mother!"

'                                                                I                                             A

ftevcotiag officer lifted his cap, like a true I act like her. Her self-love was so touched that
pnh of chiivalry.                            she forgot the situation. "Kitty is said to be
Kitty Kinmuoutlh felt as if she had leen sud' fairer than her motherr" she added, experi-
lenly plunged into a cold bath. First, came a mentally.
glow of conviction ; then, of humiliation ;then, "I believe not the tale !" laughed thme officer.
of indignation. For the first time in her life, " Were I to ask favor of lady to wear on my
she was conscious of her own character; as seen  helmet during this struggle, site is not far off of
by others. The realization was thrilling, and whom I should beg the priceless hooi. Kitty
full of wholesome influences. Her pride being  may be beautiful; but the woman hias no in-
touched, heart sense of personal danger grew less spiration for me who has not compaetness of
and less. She began to study the appearance   will and strength of cnaractei. I could not
and moral value of the man standing so noncha- ride into battle with the colors of a pretty cliher
lantly before her. That he was full of dash and fluttering on my breast. I hike not spirithess
audacity, there could he no doubt. But his au- creatures. Clara wmuld do better; but you,
dacity wv is so lubricated with urbanity, that she madam, best of all.'
could not, well be offended with hima. There    The ofeer lifted his cap again, and fixingThis
are those who can say very impudent-things in eyes on a white ostrich feather upon her'hat,
a very plasing manner ; while others, more added, with increasing earnestness and cival-
honest, but less happy in expression, make ee- rousness:
mica ith every word they utter, without intend-  " If you would but give me that feather, I
ing anything of the kind.                     would ask for no better favor ; amd I give you
The officer was of goodly height, slim of figure, my knightly word it shall go with me to battle,
and rather graceful in his general making-up. and float gayly where bullets fly thick aid fist."
Ilis attitudes were easy, and hie talked without  Kitty smiled, and mischievously teaming the
effort.  Lis head and face were most noticeable. feather from her hat, east it at the stranger's
There was a clear track. of s-hite from his face feet, with an air that she knew was her mnothic's.
to his crown, which, when his cap was off, gave She inwardly vowed to avenge hicIsef onthe
him a look of age that did not really belong to conceited fellow who had so dispitaged he', and
himi. he not being a day over thirty-five. His sneered at her weaknesses. There was tie fenth-
nose was large and beaked, IIe hiad hawk's er, and he could wear it, where he pleased. She
eyes, with black heavy brows and lashes. ilis had an idea that they might meet again, ad that
face was ruddy with good living, and rather she could nake hin feel that 11charming cats'-
elongated. Ile had very black and prosperous paws" might be dangerous. Shte resolved to
mustaches, which haad aver wanted for care,. wound his vaniity, and to re-assert nmtd remodel
They were nicely brushed away from    mouth, herself. SIe deemed it a happy thtiigthat sie
and fiercely twisted at the ends. These, with a could iow read the price nar tiey had placed
small, jetty tuft ont his under lip, was all" the upon-lien. Site thought shte would 51hyly put a
hearth ctt uf'  o    n enew figure on it sometime, so that when people
There was light enough for Kitty to make    hooked over the Kitimuottli goods they  voul
tuese ob-ervations with tolerable accuracy. He not find- her so very chap.
had glittering shoulder-straps, and wore a hand.  Her feelings were of a mingle kind. Tears
some sword.                                   and smile were very near. The grotesque and
"You uight  hav omitted t      .e pretty flattery the vexatious were Iever so mixed up in one
of the mother "' said Kitty, with affected coy- girl. But Pride was near en igh to clap a
tess, tossing her head as she had seen her tmotlh. finger into the right balance, and give Kitty a
er toss l~ens,                                piquancy and a' power over herself tint were
" I should have spoiled the truth, Mrs. Kin  quite new.  From that moment, Kitty Kin-
mouth ; and I never like to mar the truth, es- mouth began to shape a new character for er-
peciahly when it sacrifices a pretty complimnit- self, and to rise to thie die ,nity of true woman-
t a   pretty woman.- Comphiments, madam, are hood. She thanked the lucky starsthat had
the proper food of the sex. They are legiti- tricked her out inm a riding-hiait, antd sentt er
mate. Contfoumid mae, if they ain't just ste omi a mysterious' ennisud ini the mtihdthe of the
thing ! They are arrows that only require to night'; for site had learned a lesson that she,
be shot skillfully ho hit the mark.- I have sent should ever forget.
inaty, and I never kinew one to go amiss. Coin-,  Holding Itis cp in his left hand, the, Confed-
plimentsare,-the prayersthat weoffer to Beauty." crate officer stooped, and picking up the snowy
"Prayers !" repeated Kitty, with open eyes. plume, with an air halfplayful, half- vgave, but-
1  " Prayers for friendsluip, prayers for love, toned it into the breast of his coat. The whole
prayers for favor," responded the officer,  oolly. action was gracefully dlone. A womai has an
" These are the prayers of pmen." '          eye to grace. If utnything is prettily lone, site
"Do mot prayeto mc ." said Kitty, curtly, is sure to see it. Kit"y gave hitt a lithe nod of'
with another toss of her head, &amp; la -?hatcr. She  approbationt-for her mother ! She meant to
loved her mother so well that she could easily do things wel-for her mother !

i

Xj
i

.
a"
{
'
c
i
.
+
i
i
s
. ;

.
a               z .
Win,         .,
"     ,   ,p,         '.   .
y              :"            '      ,

ti
...:  -.. ..  ... --y..,, . _ ,..ems~


82      MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.

Ste had had the tact and self-possession to 'r
1 eep'her face partially averted during this im- 1
prompt lingering, and as often as the officer I
edged around, she, by an impercgptible pres-t
sure upon the bridle-rein, made her little horse I
take a corresponrditng turn ; so that the courte-
ous rebel was half-districted by half-seen beau-r
ty. He was tantalized ati the while--tantalized
and surprised-tantIalized by an incomplete view
of features so lovely, and surprised at the ex-'
treme youth of tih siup positions Mrs. Ktirouthb.n
iMty n  e, nadt am, is Blackiner," in said,'
in a tone more serious. " I amia colonel in thej
Confederate service. Should my body be left c
on some futurebat tle-field, your wtiite. plumes
will be found with me. My heart shall beat its
last throbs against it."
Just then some pale rays of light flikere1
oyer Kitty's free, ad made it lovely,: indeed. I
Bla-kmer involuntarily rendered it the' homage '
of his almnoiration. While ie wasgiving this
silent worship, Kitty tonhed hear horse with s
her switch, and galloped to meet Folly, who, a
I tired of waiting, had been gradually approach-,e
ing for the last few minutes.,
C'1lAP'Elt XL                 f
CONF'ESSION.
As Kitty role lineward, she began to regret
that ahe hi iddelivered 'the ltter. The ne'n
light sihe had received gave her-new ,motives i
and desires. Sie no longer wislied .to bethe
passive toy of het mother. If that Inysteriuns
missive were again in her po'sessioit, she would  n
keep i1t and nake a different disposition -of',it.'
A few words of 'plain truth sometimes change. t
our preeoceived notions. -She inwardly thantik-
ed Colonti lackhinter for- his voluntary conitri-
butions to her knowleige. So deeply was she i
absorbed in self-i;spection, that site tllowed her p
horse to walk through the dr-eariest portions of I
the way, much to thme 'annoyance of Foly, who
now'felt ti se fear's and fancies which sh 'had
previously feigne.-                      ,
"Gwine mighty -low, Miss Kit!" she mnt- s
tureed. " Don't knw the meanin' of this ter. ni
'Pears likey e ain't so skeery as ye used to t
war."
"+There's no partienlarb hurry," answered t
Kitty, absentlv.  ' I rather like the. solitude." lI
" lormv, Miss Kit! Should think you'd beeti p
to camp-ireet in' anni got a change' o' heart. Ir
Its powerfitl lonesome here, Miss Kit. It 'pears it
like the woods.wns crowded with charcoal."'  i
'Just then,'Kitty discovered somethinQ rothe
rotid; but a few va yads  istant. 'It'seemedthe r
figure of a mtrtit, bit,'it.uris grite' motionless.
She prudently stol'ied per horse, and Folly p
Was not slow' to foilots her example.
"on't he ske'red,~ moiten-folks!" said the
figurine, compl)ose(dly. " Therc:aitit no danger,I
allow; leastwise it from me."
Kitty lrer the voice ; for Nick Whriffirs h+il

a vocal style of his own. This meeting ca
barrasped her. She wondered if the man wotdl
know her. Could qhe not pass him, unrecog.
nized, in the darkness? If she spoke. would
he know her voice? She whispered to Folly:
"Speak to him, girl.   Say something-no
matter what-and let us pass on."
" Go 'long you low, white trash !" said Folly,
obedient to the'bidding of her mistress. ",No
spectable pusson 'd beo ut this yer time o'
night."
"The very idcee that was in my mind," re-
plied Nick, dryly. ",if I owned cattle o' your
olor, I should cross-fetter, 'em at night, by
mighty I"
" Don't &amp;o for to insult Miss Kit, ypu Cali-
orniii Unioneer!" added Folly.
" You don't -talk-to him right," whispered
Kitty.
 Who's Miss'Kit ?" asked Nick.
Mrt's'r Kinmoutlh's gal, Miss Kit is," an-
wered Folly, going from bad to worse'  " And
is for 'cattle, a cullud pusson is no more a
cattle nor you be !"
" Hero'squeer;little diffikilty, by gracious !"
exclainied Nick.' " What on airth are ve here
or, gal,at this time-o'miaiglt, when your honest
old eitherr thinks you're abed and asleep ?"
"I will answer ,you somee other time.  I
must hurry home, now. Excuse me, Mr. Whif-
tes," stnmmered Kitty.
" "You 'shall, go where you please, little
woma:n, and I'll see you safe there ; but I'd
at'rally like tobknow the nienin' o' this. It
mns'tbe some'nL uioniinon that brings ye-out
o-tnight on this solit'ry rod, with the dark
woods all -round "ye, find the  eet siifp?.r rd
p'owlin' in s'areb o' nischief. Yo   crome
other 'lia   auand in this, Ill warrant. A
iat's paw is soft when the claws are in ; but
(cs einn scratch when her Lack is up.  Be-
ware, L ti, beware!"
" Wiat do foti nheohn, sir?s' faltered Kitty.
" That thete are times o' danger ; and lie or
he that isn't a friend, is an eieniy. There's
o half way plce in this business. There's
two roads, that' go in different lirections, and
we must take ne or t'other of 'emn. You can't
o and fro atween -'em. Gal, gnil! you're being'
el into a p'isondiffikiltv. I see it as plain as
lin jtan be.  You've been on a secret ar-
unt for your 'mother, or some other person
nd my:word for't, thier's betrayal and death
n it for somebody'
'Deatli and betrayal 'in it for somebody !"
epeated! Kitty, with a sliver of pprehension.
"You nniy believe it irs-if 'twetea .text o'
criptei,"returnedNick, with eiiphasis. "Now,
tell te what abu've done ?'
Kitty st silent aid trembling on her horse.
lhe vie of Nick soundei to her like the
oice of duty.
" Tellume what you've been doing , gal?'"-

I

::I

'I
'1

{


r

iOtN2AIN      iAX; QR, NICK    WiIIFFLES ON THE BC
Xitty remained tunic, yet thoughtful.    1 haic been a convenient
"Piehi ps some'at eans be done," Nick went body's eat's-paw now
on, seriously.  ' Prelaps sone'at can be done  khe raised her person i
to avert tle danger that threatens some human angry  not at what she w
life or lives ; it may be my life or his'n."  thought of whnt she hd b
Or whoe ?" asked Kitty, eagerly.          "that is good " resp
"Max Boswortih's-Mountain Max, we call "You te gittm' hold o'
dils up amioi the pl cetS."                had  Go on in that wag
You suspect that my elrand conCerns him  you're a winImill, to be
nl you ?" queriel the girl, anxiously.  .breath, will git teken in
I t!" sil. Nick,- inpressively.         proper and right. I ca
".You eert.tinly-tlat is, if it were so, you  rown man from the mo
would io  tarn me?''                        afore you left the house
Nie' iVlliU a had his rifle resting across his journey couldn't been bo
left arni ; he dropped the butt of it to the " To a cabin on the rig
ground, not very suddenly, but after a little " That'l do,' return
reflecLioi, and looked up at Kitty with doubt "I thank ye for so mie
and surprise                                in'every hffikilty. G  I
I Lalow- I didn't understand ye, miss! I peace. Nothing ' harm
don't think I exactly got yotr meanin'."    there.  It's all right.
"She ieans that she being' a gal, you wouldn't gracious !'
hurt her on account o' that ar'," explained    Kitty moved on, quite
-oly         -                              had heard, leaving Nick
Nick Wliffles glanced upward at the dim looking atter her.
heaven, downw.tr'1 at the dark earth ; drop-
ped his chin torthe backs of his hands, iih               CUAPTE
were places over  lie  uzzle of his weapon;           AReRiBALD RO
shook his heal slowly, smiled, then in a gentle  Nick Whiffies watche
tone, answere l:    -                          looked aong the dar
" Never leerl much 'bout Nick'Whlles, did she had disappeared. T
ye ? Never read nothii' 'bout bim, I reckon in his gray eyes, and so
never kin wed of his hurti' anybody in the sionin his heart. lIe w
'5                                                    femtinine line, I sl'tise ?''               was thinikintg of and wha
Nick r:used his head, and Kitty could see night's work.
through the glon that he gazed at her com-   ":Fair enou:l," said
passioniately. lie tipped upon his breast with trees and pur~dig yinda
-Ihis ight hand.                      ..matter. It does onecwe~
iere'dl be a condemned difkilty inside sieb. They're like the N
hore, if 1's to hurt man, woman, or child  if please the eye, and give
you was the lgiggest enely as ever was, beii' to ,the senses. Ttat's v
wha t ye he, f wonmadn't lay a rough finger ott be,-with a moral to't;
ye, or harmi a hair o' your head. But you sometimes left out, so
ain't myi enemy. tior nobody's enemy but your mitans well. Site does,
own   Be easy chill; you are safe with. Nick " puts me in mind o' Ite
Tiere was a irresistible imagetisi abut run up and coil romidt
Nick's voice. His miniir carried coivictioi support.  She's the crc
ivilih it. Kitty dropped the reiis on her hrse's mother's the vine. That,
'tek, an i replied :truth don't, or as                             o
I believe you! I carried a letter from        ite seemed a little
-somiebly ti somebody "          g         wvnder what was the me
One of the 'somebody's' I                 Nick applied gentle fri
the othet ' sotmebodv 'is inmaterial."       " Spnk, by gracious I
Folly tad fietn b 'ck a little beh'p, ichr As I studied her at her fa
mistress, atind Kitty made her last me  in a down for aty spunik;
-clower tone of voice, leaning forward toward Some'at has come over
Nick.                                       hour!"
"What was talked of afore that letter wvas  Tie ol hunter paused
writ ?'' lie asked.                         wats an (ld habit.
Alt !" exclaimed Kitty, with a thrill of con-  " Virtue itself" he add
eition.intoetoev.
Yes ?" said Nick, gently.                  lie felt himself pulled
l'm not so weak ind so mean as to tell!" instinets of t he backwo
se answered, With sudden energy. " I may awakened. IIe wheeled

)RDEI.        -8
at's-paw, but I'm ny-
it the saddle, and felt
as doing, but at the
een.
onded Nick, gravely.
something you never
and them as think
turned ty iybody's
.  You've answered
a see that the tall,
untains was talked of
on the Bluff. Your
g, miss?"
it," answered Kitty.
d Nick, reflectively.
ii. ali remember ye
one, gal, and rest in
ye atween here and-
It is, I swear to
affected by what she
Whiffies in the road,
R' XII.
E's SECRET.
I Kitty out -of sight.
k pathway long aftr
here was speculation
tmething like compias-
ndered what -the girl
t would conie of her
Nick, talking to the
' Too fair, for. that
,es good to look at
lies and the lilies that
motentary eatisfaction
hat the likes o' then
though the moral is
to, speak. That got
by irighty! But she
m- creepin' plaits that
he trunks o' trees for
epin' phant, and her
I allow, is nigh about
se en't as we giner'ly
spunky. jes' now. 1
maim' on't  "
etion to his head.
thp.orc I think on't!
tIer's, I didn't set her
or 'a trifle at most.
hat gal within the last
and sighed. Sighing
led, " may be made an
by the sleeve. All the
oIsman were at once
on his heel wit i sign.

I

k;
i
i
y...


5            MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON TIIE BORDElR                   -
lar quickness, for one of his years., He cocked h:md. There was an intellectual conseiousneu.
lis rtfle, too, with the sane mttotion. His sharp in his air aiid'attitude, Which Nich perceived.
and alert iianner changed when ie-sai* who    "I shtldun't Wonie'r{" Nicelsaid, softly,
stood beside him. ie lowered the hanimner to the  "lIt wa the books, you see-it was thebooks
eone aita an air of disapp-intmunt. It was only that dhid it. Les. books alone, if you ivant your
Archie Rloe who had pulled his sleeve. lie iHid brain to- be clear. My head is crowded with
vot recognize 1im at first, bu. presently lie re- books. But there's room there for ia little
nelinuered ih tymg seen him; at- Kinmohth's. enig       a oti h.ofeeaos             en
-   Niek recalled a slight figure andi a coielyafaee, blind them with my bugs and my, beetles Bath i
,with large eyes-eyes fYiow dreamy, now bright, Who cares for bugs .and beetles, butterflies and
as the lIai's thoughts fluctuated to fimd frt'. long-legged straddlers, with plis through their
Well, lnhat do yon want?"' Nick aslJ, backs ?"
somewhatpetilanitly.                           " You're a sing'lar boy !" said the man of"
lie- youth was silent a moment. .There tie mountains.                               '
seeded to lie a doubt in his .m in-aomiethinig  " Come," said Arehie, " let us go
riot quite clear to his understanding.         "Go where ?"
The moon cause out from    the elddits, and  " To track the trackers ; to find the finder's,
tiosie miore brightly 'ein the man and on the and to learn what we catn. Ahik Ilaiker won't
0bm'y. The boy looked ip searchingly at the be eas . The hangers and killers need watch-
man, and tried With his sh-it ered intellect to ing. Should like to stie' thiemn  a card with
tead the brown characters on' his brown face. my bugs. This way."
Was it really a shattered intellect ?  Was it a  Aretibald began to walk,-and Nick followed
foolish -fiee?  Were those black eyes really in- him.. Presently he turned aside from the road.
ane and without iitellig -nce ? Were- they like  " You can come,' lie said, It and see what I
the eyes of a deer, beautiful but soulless?  aiim going to do. I can ,trust Yon, because you
Nick _Wlifflies looked down upon the up- are brave and hate tha Confederators."
turned 'ace as-woll as lie eoimi in the light ,-f  Full of curiosity, Nick kept closely 'to the
the white rays Which fell obliquely across it. boy's heels, who went some distance through a
The man; of thegnu and tr el) was at faut. dense thiekait. 'Finally, lsmtnginig into a swam
-During his short-stay at Kimouth's, he hail in. of vines, lie dropped on hia knees, thrust his
stinctively taken in the idea  that the boy was hind into a hollow log, and drew out mall
weak, mand not to be noticed.', But therewas Wesson rifle.
now at vague thought in Nick's head thaut,the "' "'I:ake this when  go for bugs !" he said,
youth ought to be noticed.    -       '-'    cunningly. "It loads at the breech and I can
" 1,1m a fool !" said Archibald Roe.  -'- put in the cartridges right fast."  -
'So am l," quoth Nick Whifmes. "sI'm an     He put his hand into the log :again, and took
eider fool than you he, though. That's the, out a hrandfbl of metallic cartridges. Nick
Difference atween us, boy."looked o in silent wonder.
" Are You a natmral fool ?" asked Arohsie. '  "Nice thing for specimens, this," added Ar-
"Partly iat'rial,-lad, partly by my bad con- chie, putting the cartridges in his pocket, ind
duct,,'answered  Vhiffles, in a kindly tone. rising to his eet. He held up his weapoin'with*
'mWe ireiall fools, more nor less. There' sOne;  something amoro than childish delight. There-
ie added, lifting lia ,ld cap reverently twivarl was soimethingdeeply serious in hisiexpression .
the briightmoim, "iiwhose sight ie'i'e mill a eoritretion of fthe lips and brow, a steady
We live, but a little while, you iotw, purpose in the eyes.
boy; but hint as lives above lives allers, and  "",Do they trust you with this ?" asked the
never ies."                               , trapper.  v
"I liaio beard of Rlim,''said Arehic. "He   ' I trust myself with it!" said Aehibald,
hakeshugs aid' beetles."                  dryly, and with a quietness and self-assuraunco
efmakes iigisbout everything,'' answered that put the bld voodsmaa in utter doubt.
,         Nick.                                          " There's been fouls in lil famil " he' mut. '
l" Did e make war?" asked Archie.         tered ; " but they wasn't this fashion of fool by
"I aliov he didn't," replied Nick. " Wicked fightnin'! One sieh fool in au family Would
ndt - unibitious men, make 'war. God makes made fools of all the rest on mm. Rotien diffi-
Tnc~re-                       -kilties in the heatd was' common amoni us, but
" Ile makes Union, too, don't lie?''       draw the double sighia on me, if ever I see a
A llers Unioni!" said Nick, in a voice some- fool that knowed "nore nor Wise people , afore I
'what supIressed.                          F"olish folks oughter  e rydhiekeronims mnd hlI-
"cPerhaps," contimimed thie lad, bmesitatiingly, diekerous, and not warthia the listenimi' to. Butt
"He'll unite ihe diseotunectd thoughts in umy he''s a yoiungstern who's stepped out o.' telo
ead. 'The thoughts ire the , things .la ht common trail o' folly, and set up. as 'twere, for
se; they make my brain go round mmln'rudml." himself. lere's a nat'r:ah mi his On hook I
He rubbed his forehead slowly w:that  right And not a natural, neither, by a long shot; for
V

A

MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.                          17
if he was, he wouldn't know it. A fool that be the man as puts ye at fault, or leads tlm
e knows ie's a fool, is a strange sight. My gran'- game through remain  water. As the worlI
father, the great historian, oughter met this goes, you've done well to trust me. But I
bey ia Centril Afriky. Let me look at that wonder that this brown old face o' mine shoes
little gu, lad I"                          invite your confidence."
"4You can look at it as much as you please,"  Archie didn't answer, nor did he dare to me*
said Archie, touching a spring which threw the the fixed gaze of the trapper.
breech end -of the barrel from the stock, pre-  " You watch the gal by day, and spy out the
eatingg a clear, bright, winding tube to the doing's of the rebels at night, I reckon?"
aeag" I deny nothingg" said the youth, in a low
"It goes on a hinge, I swear to gracious!" tone, moving forward.
Nick exclaimed.                              "The gal is fair; and the cause is good. Bi
Archie slipped a cartridge into the shining the country fust,-and the gal arterwards, if ye
tube, and 'sprang the barrel back to its place in can; least'ays, give as;faithful service to it as
an instant.                                 to her. I've but one love, now, and that love
"Quick done !" remarked Nick, reflectively. is my country. But you're young, and it's
"I never happened to run across one o' them  different. Count on me, youngster; count an
-ere, up in the mountains, It'll do for squirrels, Nick Whifles as one as will be your friend. I
I s'poae?"                                 like your pluck, by mighty !"
"'It has done for more than squirrels," replied  "! thank you from my heart " responded
the boy, calmly, and without a trace of weak- Archibald Roe, reaching back a hand to Nick.
Hess.                                      '" You understand me but too well. Unlike
They walked back to the road silently. Ar- you, I have two mistresses; you have named
ehibald Roe led on again. By and by lie them hoth: One I silently adore; the other I
stored, and tearing suddenly to Nick, said, in secretly serve."
a sane and steady voice:                      His voice was low, but it did not falter.
" Yoa will keep my secret?" ,              "You haven't told her ?"
- 6Your secret?" repeated the trapper, dubi-  " Never I" exclaimed the youth, with enter
ously. "If I know it, I'll keep it. ' I ain't " Is it not enough to be near her, to see her V
sartain I know it; but it seems to me there's a  "Sea'ecly  enough!" said  Niek, quaintlyX
little light streamia' in at the northeast corner shutting one eye, as if he were taking aim a
of my head. As it says in -Scripter, I see something. "I should want more nor that if I
some'at like trees walkin' afore me."       was a young man on the trail of a gal. I should
" Others I may deceive," resumed Archibald want a pecoolyar cast o' the eye, and a touch o'
Rloe, speaking in the same intelligent manner; the hand, and a taste o thelips. 0 Lord,-yes1"
"but sonsething tells me I cannot deceive you;  Nick laughed in his silent way.
therefore I throw off the mask. In future,    Arehie.sighed, and quickened his pace.
when we are together, as now, I shall show as  They -soon came within sight ofthe cabin
little -folly as possible, and -be to you what I where Kitty had delivered the note to the Cos-
.eg' 1  '                                  federate colonel.
i1 didn't speak for some time ; he deliber-  "Wait here for me," said Archibald; and
ated; lie scanned the boy from head to foot, going .forward softly, he looked through w
and helped his mouth'to some tobacco.       crevice into the cabin.
"How old he ye?" le asked.                             CIATR XIII.
Past seventeen."
" You look younger."                                nRS. INXIOUTH's L!TTR.
" Because I am dressed like a boy, and. I am Archibald Igoe saw a Confederate officer ie-
email of my age. Take off this round jacket, ting near one of the narrow windows of the
and put me in a frock, and I should look differ- cabin, holding a white ostrich-feather inmbig
cut.  My youthful appearance is, in some hand.     The youth hat1 seen, Mrs. "Kimmouth
measure, my protection.'                    wear.such a feather in her hat. TIme man was
"Good !" said Niek. " How old is the gal about thirty-five years of age, with a white
they call-Kitty?"               ' .         bald track running over the top of his head. H.
The blood flushed up to Archibald's face in a kept saying to himself:
moment. He stood speechless and paralyzed.   "Charmig! charmmg, ideed      So youn
"Don'thurry yourself1" added Nick, placidly. To'bthe' wife of such a man 1 O4e can hardly
"A bout sixteen," stammered the youth.   credit it!"
"Petticoats !" muttered Nick, sagely. " All  "Mrs., Kinmouth has been abroad ' again;'
rilit, lad ! . All right, by mighty! Don't 'be thought. Archie.  " Another mysterious ride.
ashamed ont. Older boys nor yoo have fol- Another conquest.
lowed a petticoat. You've taken a strange     Blaekmer kissed the snowy plume, and put is
trail, sonny, and it may be a long one; but if' in his bosom. While he was buttoning his eoat
your mind'is set on't, why, track on, and I won't a letter slipped from his pocket, and fell to the

_

F Y r


88       MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.

Soor, Ue was so much absorbed with. the re-
j3cnhrance 'of his firm visitor, that lie did not
notice the cil'eunmstance, ani arose -.and left the
; nydow without knowing his loss.
On a little pine table, on which burned the
,limmnest of lnmps, ly ,his sword and pistols.
'Ie buckled on the sword, and put the pistols ii
Jis poc.ket. hIinillming a tune, he opeiied ilie
door. Archie crouched in the sha-low of the
cabimi, and Blackmer passed out. If the letter
ibad not dropped on the floor, the colonel would
,,ot have escaped thus easily.
Go !" muttered the youth. "I can find you
again.
Before the colonel's footsteps had ceased to
be heard, Archiewas in the cabin, afei lmad the
letter in his band. Nick cause up hastily,-and
met hil-
"" I heard some one walking," he said. "Did
anybody leave the cabin ?"
" A Confederate colonel,"'replied Arclie.
_1 A Confederale colonel l' repeated Nick,
eagerly. " Why didn't you tell me, youngster ?
XV'e would took hii easy enougli"    .
" But lie left this," said Archie, holding up
the letter,
"Ah !" exclaimed Nick. "That's what she'
carried.",
Has she been out to-night? Did you see
her ?" asked the lad, still thinking of Mrs. Kin-
moouth.
" Yes," responded Nick; "she's been out,
,You, who ree nigh..about everything, ought to
been about at that time. 'Twas a golden -op-
portunity, lad." .
"I've watched her enough," answered Archie,
shaking his head, his mind yet on Mrs. Kin-
mouth. " I wish no ill to her, but those Who
are leading her on in this rebellion shall, sooner
or later, hear from  Archibald Roe-the poor
lad who has gone mad over books, the harmless
'collector of mbu"s,"
" Then you snow her to be disoyal,?" said
Nick, witlh surprise, thinking of'Kittv.
"tbetwec'n you and I," answered the youth,
in a low tone,." there eann be no doubt of it."
You're mistaken, miy man; I doubt it," re-
turned Nick, mnusingly.
' Yo ---'?"                  .  .
"  ''p" quoth Nick. " I talked with her this
very night, and, in my 'pinion, ihe menus is
well as the best on us. lie may be quick in
Tor feehn's, and fickle, as 'twere, but I don't be-
lieve there's any o' time p'ison &amp;ecsh.ipm her, by
mighty
Shie's anything but quick and fickle. She
Jdeibierate; and constant'to a purpose. She's
Aeo aireit foryou, my friend."
iek lookd at Arohibald wonderingly.
And yet you love her ?" ho smd.
* Love le. K inmomth l' -
The 'youth aiglhead at tie absurdity.
;'? 01" "is' utter'  c ie! . "i've been speakisg

1 of the gal, not the woman ; the darter, not the
moitlher'."
"Kitty ?" cried Archie
'" The same. It was her that brought this
letter, so parfnmed and dainty.",
Archibald Roe .grew white about the mouth.
His faith was stagger~pd, and nothing save the
d4ovnright honesty of Nick convicted his judg-
maent. I It was a moment of pain and doubt.
Hal 1(itty adopted her mother's habits?      *Was
she, too, inl league wiih the conspirators "  Did
she go forth on midnight errands, to inform and
betray ?     -
Nick took the letter from his passive hand,
and car'efully opened it.
We've a -right to see what's in it, at any
rate," he said;, " for I reckon it consarns us or
our cause.   Don't be down-hearted, lail ; for the
gal'hi clear herself, I'll warrant.    'Twas her
plot tin' mother that dragged herinto't.   There's
a heap o' power -in that woman, with her smiles
and soft, w.iys.  She can have her own will with
most folks, without any diffikilty.   You've got
shares eyes ; read this here wiritin'."
"You read it," said Archie, recoiling      from
tme proffered paper.
Nick read as follows: .
"CoNEL BLAcMERT:-I am desired to direct my
communications to you. Ther# is a tall, gaunt, tawny
femnov stoppingirtl us to-night.who is undoubtedly th.s
verit-th:o Nick Whiffles, whose doings and sayings, up in
the Northwestern trapimg grounds, hiave made such a
stir. lie is a Ueion mampanihln coe ineme to make
trouble for us. PIl manage, by one way and another,
to keep the old foil here until t~-morrow night, ir you'll
ssend somme mnl to take Jinns. Donat be afrid of sending
too mamy ; -fr they sy le's a danigeous man, and al,
w.ys on the look-out for tricks anmi traps, To capture
the leader of these new enemies from the ihountains
would be no mean achievement. There has been a terri-
ble scene at our house tOnight, an  I trust you'll take
measures to prevent its recurrence in the future. They
caine very near hanging my lori and master from one if
his own winds; and that, too, after l h-meavctioety
stated that I wuidcn't have miau tnged forany meie.
if I hehp you catcih Limcln's hirelinags. you mst, in
e Impersti on, protect myliouseholil. I am sure if I hait
came home and found him dangling from the window, I
should have gomme into strong hysterics.
so aimswatched  ami mdiieither send this to you or
come myself. If I knew I was going myself, I wouldinot
write so much in detail ; but even in t. at event I shtail
not be able to stay to converse with you a single me
mient,,so fearful am I of discovery.'
" I have just returned-lrom a similar errand, and re-
ceived cold and suspicious looks when I came in. I was
eved in a way I didn't like, especially by that tawny
Nick Whiffles, siomn I found comfortably istaled with
time famiy. I -cams deceive zay, irorthy iinmouth, but
this fellow looks deeper than I like.
"If you can come, give a line to 41c Iarker to deip
ito the hoilow'tree that he knows o,'informing me of
thi aorwhen I mayexpect mmvisit from those monstrous
bushwhackers !
"Yours, for the cause,        ADsta."
- On the back of the sheet was written, in pen-
cil, by the colonel,,shiowiing thathe had read its
contents, the fol!owingM  memoranda
"Mim.---Must not fot-get to see Alck lHarker, and ar
range about the trapping of-the griasly bear from the
mneunitains.'                              ,

a

MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK ' WHIFFLES ON TILE BORDER.                     89
"Mm.-Must remember to charge the bushwhackers " Do -you know the lurkin' places of the
not to let tl.eir guns go off accidentally, and kill him; mean skunk ?"
*hich would save the expense of a rope and other little  "I do," said Archie.  "I've walked these
matters, and ii not to he thought of.         Id,     adAci."'ewle               hs
Maem.-Nt toBang old Kinmouth, unless absolutely bluffs too mueh1 to, be unacquainted with his
necessary,o account of his pretty wife."  haunts.  Return to Kinmouth   Mr. Wfes,
Nick real all this calmly, anad'with unruffled and trust the mad boy."
temper. He went on slowly but surely, sttim-  Roe smiled, and trailing his little rifle, began
bling now adthen, but making all right pres- to move away.
ently. He folded it quietly, put it back in the  "You feel sure ?" queried lNileadifiknestly.
unnlutilated envelope, wet it with his tongue, "It might make a condened bou  ifbuiltyif
and re-scaled it.                          there should be any mistake about this business.
"'An onconanon neat piece o' compositionI' We want to know when the p ison critters are
he observed, with a comical squint at his young--comin'; arter that, leave it all t.' me. I neotr
friend. IIe looked:like a person who is confi- how to deal-with sic. I   basi't horn vester-
dent of self-preservation, and could see his way day. A portion o' my life has been spent
out of almost'any difficulty,               among savage bem's and danger. Though ex-
" It's a harmless-lookin' bit o' paper, but it's istence is a brittle threaAl, I've spun it ot till
some'at like a cat-asleep. "Tall, gaunt, and now; opd you see me afore ye, Nick Wdiffles,
tawny 1' T!iat's me. Parsonal, but to the .p'int. alive and well, ready to grapple with any diffi-
What do you think on't, lad ?"            , kilty that may turn up."
"tI deo'0 ivish to think of it," answered Arch-  Archie came back, and putting his baud on
iball gloomily. " It is heartless ; it is wicked ; Nick's arm, answered :
but it is the bitter fruit of-this rebellion. Do  " You are right: you were not orn yester-
not condemn her too much. She means better day ; neither was I. I am young in years, bt
than she writes."                           I am old in looks and in thought, anti-"
" So she does, my man," said Nick, encour  " In love !" interposed Nick.
agingly. "Sartain !  But she don't quite un-  " And since these difficulties commence,"
deratan' the difference atween life and death. continued Archie, not heeding the interruption,
To live, is to move about on the flat of the' "and, since I saw her, I have spent most'of
airthr to die, is to lay mighty flat under the my time with my rifle, in the Woods, here ant
airtli. To trap the tawny Nick, is' to shoot or there, -and everywhere, on the tanks of thi
hang him ; and atween shooting' and hangin', river. I have watebed the coming and the go-
and movi,' about, ahiv and hearty,, there's ing of these disloyal men and women, and I
quite a odds to me. Oh no!   he ain't so very can track them to their secret places. Yes, I
bad!   The right and the wrong has only am sure that I shall find Iliker; and if,  I find
changed places! The cart's got afore the hoes him, I shall find the hollow tree, and whatever
-that's all! But that's nothing' agin the gal, may be placed in it."
Kitty ! ""All right!" responded Nick. " You've got
Archibald Roe moved about uneasily, and the grit and the wit to hack it, I allow. I'll tell
did not find it very easy to reconcile the ex- 'em  you've  gone to your bugs and yout
trecmes of Nick's philosophy, Ite appreciated beetles, your hoppergrasses and your long-legk
the kindness of his new aequaintanee, but felt ged straddlers. And, what's better, I'll speak
- n't' tly unable to decide 'how much irony lie a good word;for ye:to the pretty Kitty. I know
meant to attach to his remarks. The man's how to do them things, my little bug-man. A
eyes first twinkled with humor, then lighted woman's man, I be._ The lively critters can't
. p with something sterner.                look at me without langhin'.  0 Lordsno I
-.You'd better take this 'letter," added the  "I'm off!" said Archibald.
mountaineer, while Archie was yet deliberating,  "Good, luck to ye . ''responded Nick, with a
"and put it back in the .dientical plaee where wave of the hand. " I'll take care o things at
Syou found it. The Confederate critter '11 miss it, the house."
and come fort, most likely."Young Roe quickly disappeared il the woods,
Young Roe took the letter and mechanically while the hunter returned to Kinmouth's.
obeyed, thinking all the while of Kitty..--
- " Do you know where that holler tree is ?           ' CHAPTIR XIV.
askel 1iiiies; when th.e lad joined him.              A NEW SNARE
S "No , but I can find it."' ,Nick knocked gently at the door, which was
" "-Tell                                  opened by, Mountain Max. - Tbe house was
a"I'll find Nick Ilnaker, and'in finding him, I quiet. The family had retired to rest; while
shall find the tree."                      the athletic Calif'rnian kept watch below.. A
"',i nfindin himt you'll find the tree," re- few words passed between the two men ; then
peated Nick, thoughtlfully.                Nick stretched himself oin tI' poor mnd was
"I mean that I will not lose sight of him for soon in a sound sleep, forgetful of plots and
the day," returned Archie, wvitl1 confidence.  leounterplots ; treacheryand danger'.

\N

:
. , :


40          MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.
Max, attentive to every sound, without or sight. She came and bent, a fair and bewitch-
within, remained wakeful. He would not have ing creature,-his benefactress, his heroine, his
slept had there been no need of watchfulness ; ideal woman.
for Clan wai in his imagination, keeping him  The morning came, as if the night just
- restless.  Clari was equally sleepless.  She passed had been one of the many and common
could not und, rstand why Kitty should remain nights thit had come and gone. Mrs. Kinrtoutt
so long with her mother; but she did have appeared at the breakfast-table, placid and.
something more than a vague suspicion that friendly. To, Nick she was condescending, to
Mrs Rinmnouth had betrayed the man whom    Max she was kind. She observed his words, his
she had befrieided, into the, huards of his en- manners, with close attention. llis man1f beauty,
emies. That- some new scheme was afoot, she eharmed the charmer. The impression made
thoroughly believed ; and she longed to saytei the previous night was deepened that morning.
Kitty                                      She resolved that the man she knew by the
'JBeware of your fascinating motherI"   simple name of Bosworth, should feel and own
Long before the return of Nick, she was her power; acknowledge her supremacy, and
several times on the point of knocking at her bow tober will. She watched Clari, and she
step-mother's door; but she feared that that watched 'Kitty, lest their courgter charms should
would be intrusive, and might serve to. put her prove ttractive, to this mountain Apollo.
more on her guard, and make her more adroit   Of- corse, she did this - in her own way,
than ever in the hidden course she was pur- without awkwardness or observation. Max wes
suing.                                     Well bred. He said but little, and that little
Clan, as she walked thoughtfully to and fro was to the purpose. He avoided polities,.and
i leer slippers and wrapper, caught the sound showed "his good sense. He resolved to be
ef the opening of a door. 1er own was ajar, amiable and skillful with an amiable and skillful
mnl she stepped across the threshold. Some woman.
one was softly coming up the back staircase.  ' Clari was somewhat constrained. She kept
It was a woman, for she couldihear the rustle her eyeson hCr plate, and conversed only with
f her garments   She drew back, and saw Kitty, who was stranely assured and at her            -1
Kitty come up, cross the upper hall, and steal ease
to her mother's chamber.                     "Alhl!" thought Kitty, "what would mother
Clari sat down, full of curiosity and con- say if'ahe knew that this rnan. whom she is
jeture.  By and-.hy, Kitty appeared, in her doing tile agreeable to is the veritable Moun-
ten;al attire.                            tain Max, whom I am sure she betrayed to that
" Where have you been'?" Clani nsked.    horrid Harker! But I must say nothing. I
"I have been a fool I" said Kitty, deliberate- can only think, for I am a cat's-paw, and not a
ly.                                        girl. Cat's-paws are convenient. What will be
CL ii mused a moment. - She had never heard  lone when I have ceased to be a cat's-paw ? Will
such- an answer, in such a toile,'from thegentle the chestnuts remain in the fire? No, no!
Ri tr.                                    - Mother won't let 'em burn. She's too deep for
"  did not ask you what you had been, but that. All, what a glance she gave him then !
inhere ?" added Clari.                  ''I'll do'that before the glass, when I go up stairs.
".No matter! I am   going to bed and to I can practice on Arcie, and when I hav a
sleep. I hope to wake up with a few grains of chance, try it on mother's admirer-Colonel
your wit. Sit where I can look at your good Blacluner. He's got her feather, at all events.
fice while I ant dropping away."          I wonder how she'll extricate herself from
Ditty went to bed, and Clari, quite mysti- that?"
l(el and troubled,' held her little white hand  Kitty threw a furtive glance at her mother.
until lie eyelids drooped and she slept   That glance caught a tender expression on her
But Clari had no thought of slumber. 'She face.
heard Nic%'s knock, light as it was; and the ,"She's going to cut the hair of this rural
opening and shutting of the door, but was Sampson," said Kitty, mentally, and she was
afraid to go down to learn who entered. When partly right.
ste had ucombated this timidity, a long time,  Mrs. Kinmouth strictly avoided the exciting'
ahe stole down stairs, and, to hecr confusion, saw topics of the hour. Site did not ask Max whenee
Mountain Max keeping guard and Nick Whif- lie cane, orwlere lie was going, or hiisbusiness.
lies sleeping on the floor.                All that, she knew, would come in good time.
Maxi vas thrilled by the vision of Clar, all She talked freely- with Nick, making many in-
in White. le looked, and was lost. She -was quirics about life in the woods, flattering him
iale 'and calm, and her beauty indescribable. whenever she had an opportunity.
ie,'tnanaged to mutter:                      Nick was not tardy in conversation. Ie kept
" All safe, Miss Kinmouth 1" and then was pace with her.; he ,told comical stories. She
sorry that hie hlad broken the spedl. She smiled, laughed at his dry humor, and informed him
nodded ler lcad slightly, and uttered out of that he was really refreshing, he was so natural.

*


I

)

0

1

.' ep:-ersed him to remain with them  a few
di'. She owned it wis selfish, because in such
ia iscubed state of affairs his presence would
he really a protection, to say nothing of his
comn pany and his amusing adventures.
Whiffles received these courtesies with un-
shaken equanimity. He replied readily, yet so
ambiguously that even the quick-witted Mrs.
Kinmiouth was led into a state of doubt in re-
gard to his real character. At pne moment
she uns inclined to think him a simple-minded
man of the woods, and at the next, a cool and
skiliful person, ever on his guard and ever ens-
picious.
'Terrible things happen now-a-days," said
Mrs. Kinmouth, with a sigh. .I slept none
for thinking of the frightful visitors of last
unght."
Mr. Kinmouth moved uneasily in his chair.
He said not a word; he gave no sign of dis-
trust. He looked at Clari and Kitty, and sipped
his coffee.
" Kitty has told me about it," Mrs. Kinmouth
resumed, calling to her aid all tihe powers of her
will. " You and your friend," addressing Max,
" came very opportunely; I may say, provi-
dentially. They took away the unfortunate
fugitive, did they? I wish you could have
saved him, too."'
Max looked uip with a start of surprise ; then
he remembered that he hal been introduced as
Mr. Boswort,, and not as Mountain nMax; and
that he was, by common consent, sustaining a
false character. A deception bad been put
upon Mrs. Kinimouth for his safety, and as a
piece of pardonable policy. The man whom
she had betrayed was sitting at her table, and
she was talking with him freely and easily,
pleased with hin, and anxious in turn to please.
Thie situation was certainly peculiar. Clan and
itty, and indeed all but the subject of the de-
ception, felt the strangeness of it. -
What .was to be done ? Nothing, of course,
on the hart of any member of the family but
the careful head of it, Robert Kinmouth, and
he was yet in doubt 'wnat, curse to pursue in
the future. For the present, and until he could
shape out a settled lne of conduct, he was sat-
isfied to let matters remain as they were, and
take, whatever policy circumstances might give
them. Ile felt-sure of his wife's guilt, but, still
hadjless R#oof of it thpia he vished. The-letter
helhd seen-, though bearing so strong a reten-
blance to her handwriting, might possibly be
made toappear an ingenious forgery. Yes;
there might, be a faint" ho    of that. So Mr.
IKinmouthclung to straws1 and resolved to be
magna:iimious aid slow to condemn ; while, at
the same time, he feared there was no hope of
heat innocencee being shown. But lie had no,
heart to mate a sudden exposure. The thought
of cnfi rmation stattled him. Ile preferred
b   lt oif the evil day, whem, to the minds of

some others, the whole truth was as clear n
sunlight.
This was the status of affairs'at the house on
the Bluff on the mnot niig after the visit of the
bishwhackers.
Mrs. Kinmouth kept a vigilant watch that
day. She knew she was standing on slippery
ground, but would, make the best of it. Clar  4
was quiet and coldJ; while Kitty was inexplica-
ble. The latter had evidently got an idea into
her head, but her wise mother could not de-
termine whlat it was.
Max Bosworth walked about the grounds
with her husband, and talked seriously with
him. Of course, the subject concerned the Re-
bellion, and the difficulties that surrounded
loyal people.
Nick Whiffles-they called him Swingfoot-
related a few comical stories, and with his rifle
on his shoulder, disappeared. Mrs. Kinmouth
watched his tall figure down the Bluff road,
and slightly contracting ber fair brow, muttered
to herself:
" He will come to-night. He has left his
horse."
CHAPTER XV.
TIrE MOUNTAIN MEN.-
Nick Whiffies did not follow the road far.
He struck off into the Forest. le walked rap-
idly, but his mocecasined feet made little noise ;
not because he made particular effort to go
softly, but more from habit. .le heard the dry
leaves rustle under the pressure of heavy feet.
He stopped, and stood behind a tree. After a
short time he saw a miian hurrying through the
woods toward the river.. Ile passed quite near
Nick, who recognized him. - It was Alick Har-
ker.
" I wonder where the critter's going' ?" mused
Nick. " On no very good arrant. I'll warrant.
There'll be a cussed little diflikilty, I allow,
sooner or later!"
He did not st'r, but continued to look after
Aliek. Presenitly, he saw another figure, smaller,
and moving silently. It was Archittald Roe,
following the buslhwhacker. A smile of satis-
fact on passed over the old trapper's lips. He
watched the youth till he was out of sight.
"The boy has a light step and a steady eye,"
he said, tvith a. pleased iir. " lied soon l'arn
thd ways o' the woods. le tracks that clumsy
bear lii e a trained and sagacious dog. Love
has sharpened li:s falkilties.  Ie has the will of
a tiger, anti the cunning of a cat. That mean
secession skunk~l have to ito faster nolr he dots
now, to get out the way o' that-youngster."
NWith this audible expression of his thoughts,
Nick   n9ved on bui-klv.   Ile went far, and
through lonely plae s his only guide seemed
to be his itnitive sense of the points of the
compass. Whatever faculty or curious knowl-
edge directed his conree, .lie did not err, but
went straight to the spot he wished to find;

5'

-

I

MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.  43

,j .

I
i
/"

. ''.
h('f
4r


44          'hiOiJNTA!N   MX '; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.
whieh was the rendezvous of his men from the  "So be has, ny bully boys ! And all sorts o'
siiout:ains. iony of whom had arrived. There grait they tucked into him while he stood in the
%wereo white tents to mark their little encamp- public crib. I told 'cm they must muzzle him,
meant. 'J'hev were men who could roll them- or dock off his feed. Now we've got to slaugh-
solver in tir bl.mnkets and sleep on the ground. ter him to keep from beim' dored'to death. .But
If the earth wis saturated with recent rains, we'll make a diffikilty with 'em. We will, I
they cut Ioughs from the trees and made the swear tograciotis!"
wet pfacs lry. They were hardy fellows, who  " W ell do that!" said the mountaineer.
did not fear common langers. The gleam of a   "I want some of ye," continued Nick, "to go
bayonet, or the crack of a percussion-cap, nor with me on special service, I'll tell ye what
even the music of flying bullets, startled their tis in due time."
sfeaiy nerves. They were not raw recruits.    Nick selected a dozen stout fellows, and nam-
They knew how a rifle should be held and fired. ed a place of meeting, near the bluff, at-a given
They knew when the bullet out to strike, and hour. After talking with them, a long time
whit it ought to do. No feather-bed soldiers apart from their comrades, he stalked away as
were they.                                  he came-with his long rifle on his shoulder.
Sonicfires were burning, and groups of brave -----
fellows were cooling over them, in their own             CHAPTER XVI.
peeuliar style. 'Tire appearance of Nick was              CROSS PURPOSES.
iailei with rough lbut heartysalutations. Thei'  Meantime, Max improved his time. He not
leader was evidently popular among them, and only walked with Kinmouth about the grounds~
was'looked upon as a "game chap", brave, but he walked with the fair mother and the fair-
shrewd, and equal to all the emergencies of the er daughters. Tihe more tic.saw of Clari, the
wvarifre they were about to engage in. le had more lie was captivated. He had reached the
to answer many questions, and to ask a few in superlative degree of love by night. Mrs. Kim-
turn. They were loyal men, and impatient for mouth seemed as much p!eased with hint as ie'
action.                                 .   was with Clari; but we say this with a mental
"I'll soon have some'at for ye to do," quoth reservation, leaving a suitable margin for that
Nick. "'lIe people hereabouts are terribly put lady's love of conquest. Max, though not sea-
to't by the traitors. The critters called bush- sible of the gentle interest lie had inspired in
wthackers are up, and hard at it. They don't the heart of Mrs, Kinmouth, tried his best to
mind robbin', wvhippin', aid hanging . They'd conceal the tender sentiments that Clan had
horn, I allow, if 'twasi't for the trouble o' col- awakened. The circumstances under which the
lectin' firewood. All this diffikilty comes of a two lad met were so romiantie, that Mrs. Kin-
few rott en dimigogs, my lids. How on airth  mouth was fearful that something might iiatu-
are we goin' to hut down the rebellion while all rally grow out of it, even before she began to
time black critters are stavin' to home, raisin' observe the parties themselves-; when she corn-
food for the rebel army?~ All the able-bodied meneed to watch -them, her fears speedily ripen-
men go to war to destroy the Govcr'ment, and ed into strong .suspicions.VThere was Kitty,
the ol men and women stay on the plantations, too. Why not Kitty as well as Clan? She itit-
to boss thte blacks, and grow corn and bacon for wardly owned there might be danger of that.
em. Tat's time way 'tis, and no mistake: But Kitty was pretty, but a child . She had not the
t e ain't- gin' to find fault fault with nobody, eharactenand stability of her step-daughter. She
nty mountain catamounts:-we're goin' to fight might please the handsome stranger, and excite
for the best country the world ever see. And his admiration; but Clari, only, could fascinate
'we're going' to sail in i right down airiest, too. him entirely, and attach him to her for life.
\We'l he mareil'ul to the marciful, and just to  Such were the rebel lady's feelings ; and it
tie cruel. We'll pertect women and children, must be confessed that they apptroximated to the
and nh:ike quiet and peace along the bpaks o' truth.. She said to herself, looking at Bosworth:
the old Mss'souri. We will, I swear t 'gib-  "This man is avery fine animal. Who knows
ciou5s !b but I may turn :him to account ? NQ -doubt his
Thii speech was received with cheers-v'oeif- polities are bad; but if I can bring'him to my
Brous cheers. There were cries of "Go on !"  feet, I can convert him. I will make a good
"6I ain't no talkii' mnmi," said Nick. "I'm a rebel of him, in time."
fibhtin', not a talking' mtamn. We've got political  She tinot eo scions of danger to herself,
crittie among us, up torrards the North, that but to him. - She new her own power; and this
can't do itothin' else but talk. Lt 'em go it on calm, strong man from the woods should be
that,- by gracious! We don't go in for sichi tamed and subdued--providing her plans were
gammon. It's the hard knocks only that'll iot interfered' with..
knock down this bloated secession ox."        Kitty liked Max at first sight, and was willing
"That's so t" nssented a score of voices. thatlaCari should like him, too. She soon guess-
"'Ant that ox has been fatted at the public crib, ed how matters stood between them. ' Time aff.iir
too."                                       had commenced so strangely, so thrillingly, that

MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.

she wished it might go on, and was inclined t
,accept it as something 'p-ovident'ah.  Ther
must be destiny, she reasoned, in such a'mineet
ing, and the startling things that followed ; an
Kitty was ready to assist destiny in the right di
reetiotn. She resolved to bring thehonest inonn
taincer under the full influence of Clani, whom
in her sisterly fondness, she believed no humai
mascenline could withstautd.
She sulenly remembered that she had thing
Sof imptortanmee to tell lien mother councerinmg th
previous night's adventtires.. She thought i
was a gooJ ttme to set lip thme business of wvoni
an on lier own responsibility. The I" charhiini
cat's-paw" would try her velvet paw in a differ
ent way from what it had geenrally been used
The   were at that minent walking in the gar
dorn. She pulled her 'mother by the sleeve, and
whispered:
" I must talk with von, mother.  Fall back
and let Crt'i go on with that' overgrownim rustic.'
Mrs. Kinmoatht glanced quietly atlier datigh
ter, to see if her expression was right, and thit
there was no irony at thme bottom  of that re
mark. The yon face was cahn anl clear.
She paused to dally with a rose, and Clari and
Max walked on.
"cWell ?" qteried Mrs. Kinmouthi. " Whatis
it, Ross ?"
Her tone was not quite patient, and she Con-
tinued to look after thatwo figures that. were
They look finely !" muttered Kitty.
,o hm ?" asked ner mother, slarply.
" 'Thie roses," 'said Kitty, inocentl',
"So you delivereJ tie letter?" said her moth-
er, preset-tly, .     .
S  Yes," replied Kitty; "and was comph.
mented very inghly for my beauty."
.You shiul not have listened," said Mrs.
Kininouth, fowitinig.
"cBut I 'was acting for youl1' returned Kitty.
" For ame ?"
" For Yo!"
"Explain."
"I was supposed to be my own mother at the
time.  I was flatter'l tor, you, made love to for
you. I -eaught that pretty trick of your eye
very well, I think."
Kitty was both demure andarch.
"So you personated mc ?" said Mfg. Kin-
mouth, quite startled.
" To the best of my abilities," answered Kit-
ty. " lit lb h  heard "f- Mrs. Kinnmoutl - the
rebel colonel hal.  But she-that was me-was
much y-untger and   r'e~tierthan .she had been
dc eslalfofmvloveliness had not
been told. I-Mrs. Kimith-might have fair
daughters ; but be should bow to the mother,
and ask her colors to wear on the field of battle.
You knot' you have a coquettish toss of the
heal, rath r iP.e thIis." (She gave an imitation.)
"So  I  .   t - a : that !''

45

o    " Charming little  counterfeit !" exclaimed
e Mrs. Kinmouth. " I really did not know that
you had any art. But girls come on so rapidly';
d they are on the stage of the world before ve
- know it. I wonder, my dear, that you staid to
- hear his folly."  Mrs. Kinniouth's face flushed
, a little.
n    " It was not for myself; it was for you."
" Well, I thank you till the sante !" laughed
s her mother.
a " What was in that letter ?" asked Kitty, ab-
t sently$. " What 'business have you, my moth-
- er, with rebel colonels ?"
" Hush ! Speak low !" said Mrs. Kinmouth,
quickly. " Your imprudence terrifies mie. You
1. shoulI known nothing of rebhel colonels.- ThIso
- matters are not for you. We tuust have safety';
I and to have safety, we must have friends ; and
to be 'of use, our friends must be powerful.
,'ihce Confederate leaders can protect us."
"They have shown but little disposition to
- do so," replied Kity, dryly.
t'  Icr mother was etmbatrrassed.
 " We must placate them," she stammered.
" Not in the' way you do it," said Kitty,
gravely.
" What would on have ?  We must be kept
i from having our thr .ts cut !"
Mother, beware 1' ansuvei'edthe gir, slowl~
and meaningly. " You stamd on the brmik of
an abyss ; the nmxt simep unay plunge you into
it. Will you take that step or draw back? If
you pause, there may be hope for you ; if you
go on, you fall-ill fiomi all that is hear and
honorabe. Now, other, which are you going
'to di)?"
Mrs. Kinmouthi grew  pale ; her lips were
" white ; her bretimiong was nmomenttarily- sus-
pended. She turned upon Kitty ; she took her
m y both shoulders wi h her hams ; she looked
into. her face some time in silence.
" It is the mistake of mother'ss" she said. "I
have treated you as a child. You have grown
a woman before I was aware of it. The mis-
take was mine,,not yours. So it seems that--"
that--"
a That I am somewhat acquainted with your
way of thinking," interposed Kitty.
" Posibhly, you do not know' the deeper un-
der current of my thoughts."
A new thought occurred to Mrs. Kinmouth.
Shie pansed and asked, in a low, unsteady tone:
Did you read the letter Y"
" I did not."
" You did not ?" shie repeated, eyeing Kitty
sharply.
" Mother, I have not spoken a lie, nor acted
one," she replied, with firmness.
"Aht! I see how it is ! Even doves have
sharp eyes."
" You mean that a girl may be young and
innocent without being a fool," said Kitty.
" No matter what I mean," answered the

'I
I,


40      MOtUNTAIN MAX;- OR, NICK WIIIFFLES ON THE BORDER.

lady. after reflecting a moment.  " You will
not betray time."
She compressed her lips and tossed her
hieadh
1e I do not think I would ; but people sorie-
titmte s betray titetselves." -      ~  -
"True; yet I own to nothing of all this.yon
have been'saying. On the contrary, I deny
everytlthimg.  Do not try to cope with me,
Kitty."
Cope with voun? 0l    oi';  I wiuld help
YoU out of this terrible situation, if I could. I
et- your friend--your daughter, and not your
ctenely. I will noutt be brought itp antagonism
iti you. And yet, I will help the Unioi
cause :01 Union men. I will save life rather
than dest ro it. I will set no traps."
Kitty spoke earnestly. , lher mother had
never seen her so firm, s, fearless before. She
shivered and drew lack, like one who looks. off
a dizzy height. She began to feel her peril.
Soton, tuother," Kitty Went on, " it will be
too late to retreat. Int a day, i may be in art
hotur. you Ittyuhe lost to 11 all,'
h eu  silent  '  said  her  ot t her, 'warningly.
" (lari and the mountaint-man are returning.
They seem wondrously frietilly. See: how he
looks at her ' -Ist't thit ltituiration, Kitty ?"
"Clhri is ltandsome," said Kitty, absently.
"' Yes, sielied te' mother, ' 1 fear site is."
This was murm ured rather tlhan spoken. She
was greatly troubled hlv what Kitty had said.
Shle was the victim of suspense and fear. That
a discovery of some kind had been made. she
could itot doubt. But what was it?    How
much was site compromtised, and to whom?
Bosworth and Clari came up. and she joined
thetmwitit a smiling countenance ; but her
hemtrt was beating ptifully
V, il[ Youir friend with ie singular name re-
turn to ius to-night?" she asked, carelessly,
lurtti tg to Bosvortht.
W without fail. He keeps time like a watch,"
ttianwered Max.
Iteeis tittle like a watch," repeated Mrs.
Kiynmouth. "A very good idea. This Swing-
foot Feetms to be the shrewdest of his class.
Isn't ie att expert in woodcraft?"
Kitty vatch ed her Mother's face while. she
was speaking. She studied it well ; its mask
ias vety, perfect-its htypterisy a thick vail
lhihttfew e.td penetrate. Thet girl wondered if
Mt'ttataint Max tad f-artned anything conern-
lag  e lotmid niglt journey, er ithesletter, from
Sick Whiffles. Site malrveled ttht'tis calmness.
Ie wras st:tdin fatce to face with tle woman
who lid lbetraed himt, and knew it ; yet his
c'ear ev a dwelt on her rtildlly.'
"hoI~ wedeceive each other!' thought the
jPretty little wvotn.
ret     t  vmsay, malam," returned Max, in an
ty manner, " that lte has not his equal with
the gun atid trap this side of the great Red

River of the North. As an enemy, the rebels
cattnot liave a worde-man."
" ie ~has come to us at the right time," o-
served Clari.' ' I hope he will be able to hold
thd' bushwhackers in eheek.  We call these
midnight prowlers, bushwhackers, Mr. Bos-
worth. They are not engaged in regular war-
fare, but tire, in tet, predatory bands of bat-
diitti."-
"I will, trust the trapper and his mountain-
ders against these robbers .and assassins, with
perfect cottfidenee in the result,'"'answered Bos-
worth. ' " These miie do not waste powder
lvhli'they fire.'
.   Yon are on the right side, I see," said Mrs.
Kitimouth yravely,
' I hope so, umtdam. I'm on the side of the
Governrient and Liberty."
" Do Von intend to take arms in the defence
of the Union ?" asked the lady. quietly.
Bivpworth received a warning glance from
Ritt.yI He took the l;nt. and gave a different
reply from What Ie taid intended,
Sticks a thought has been i my mind, I
confess," ie said ; " but I.shall be guided by
reason and my calmest judgment. What should
you advise. iadam?"
This qluest ion took Mrs. Kinmoutht somewhat
off her guard ; but she was not one to be long
emibarr:assed.
" Precisely what you have said you would be
guided by," she replied.  I conttnend your
moderationt. Many are hasty.  Haste is not
always expedient. One should think twice be-
fore taking an important step. There are two
sides to every question."
" And we cannot take both of them," inter-
posed Kitty.
Mrs. Kinmcuth tossed her head and laughed.
What a' wise 1buss!  She is becoming a
sagely"
"The young lady is right," said Bosworth,
with a smile. "The country has but two par-
ties-its friends and its enemies. great , indeed,
are our responsibilities.  We are accountable
to all the future."
Mrs. Kiniouth turned toward Kitty, and
her red lips curled with incredulity. She be-
lieved in the Confederacy.
"Do you like Yankees?" she asked, with af-
feeted good-tature.
" No," said Bosworth, dryly ; " I like Amer.
icans."
Mrs. ICinmouth looked serious, and said
Let-us go to dinner."          ..    .
So they went in, with a wide, wide difference
of thought between them.

MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, INICK WIIFFLES ON THE BORDER.

47

CIfAPTER XVII. -" I haven't a doubt of it," replied Kitty,
. 'THE WARNINQ.               shivering. "But what can be done ?  We ean-
The day passed on., Archibald Roe did not. not go and inform hti that-"
return. Nick V hiffles appeared before sunset,  The girl checked herself, and her face grew
and spent an hour it various attentions to his red.
horse. It wasobserved by IKitty that lie wps  ."Names need not bementioned,"said~Clars
rattier ueasy, and walked to and fro, as 'if in earnestly. "Go to him and say: 'You are not
deep thought.                '              safe here. Go away atonce. Save y 1rself1'
" He seeins to be expecting some one," she You cando this,,and compromise no nte."
said to herself. "I wonder where Archie is?   '"I will do it'!" exclaimed Kitty, with firm-
That Arehibald Roe is a strange youth.: It's a ness. "Where is mother? Keep guard over
pity that study crazed him. Yet he has simgu- npther."
lar flashes oh lucidity. There are times when  The girl was moving off.
his handsome eyes make me tremble.; they      "Stay l" said Clari, detainiung her. "Is it
penetrate my heart; they look into me."    not singular about this Mr. Bosworth and Mrs
Kitty said this to her own pretty'selfhood, Kinmouth ?"
thinking no one heard her; but the fair and  Clari often called her step-mother ' Mrs
stately Clar was near enough to catch every Kinmouti".
word.                                         "She is going to please him," quoth Miss
"Repeat what yqu said,"-said Clar-, quietly, Kitty.
lPokiig at Nick Whiffles, and fallowing the di- "I cannot imagine how you misled her about
reetion of his eyes with her own.         . his identity. 1 hope 'ou told nothing more
"This Mr. Swiftfoot seems to be anxious," than a white lie ?  But sharp peopleoften take
answered Kitty, not, consternatdd, but embar- the hook with avidity. It was the man's god4
rassed.                                     looks that blinded her. liad she not, scenl ims.
" Ilas lie reason to be anxious?" asked Clari. she would not have been so easily misled. tia
"How should I know?    The question is sin- handsome face, his dark hair, his fine eyes, his
gular, Cltri."                             manly-physique dazzled our fascinating mamia
a Where did you go lust night ?           ina."
Clari spoke resolutely yet kindly.          " Beware, Clari, or she'll take him away from
"So you missed me .!You had better not you."
ask questions. Guess at everything and let it  With these warning words, Kitty liurried to
pass. Be assured that it will not occur again. Nick Whiffles.  She passed hitm, and as site
I have learned wisdom. I had no settled opic- passed him, she said:
ions yesterday ; to-day, I have. I am for the  " I want to speak with you, Nick Whifles.
Union-for the Government-for Liberty-for Follow me."
threotitution and the old flag ! Is not that  " Sartai ! To the- d o' the world, if you
a long speech for a et's-paw to make ?"    asked me to," replied Nick, and walked slowly
Ah i" exclaimed Clari.. " Something has after her.
touched you. Something has awakened you.      They went along the Bluff Road a little way,
You speak as I like to hear you."           toward the river, not taking any notice of each
" The'less you say about it, the better I shall other.
feel.' There are reasons why I don't wish my   "You had better go away from here," began
actions scrutinized. Talk of something else, Kitty, by-and-by. when Nick was near enough
sister Clari."                              to hear her. " I don't think you are safe with
" There is enough- to talk of, Heaven knows," us."
returned Ctari. "And there are some things,"  "Don't be afeared," answered the. trapper,
she went on, "that must be met, bravely.  et with composure.  " I've lived among diffikil-
me ask you one thing, Kitty : Do you think ties all iny life. If you should take the diffi-
motier knows who yonder mtan is?"          kitties away of a sudditit, I should be out o' my
She pointed to Nick, who was standing in the elements, and shouldn't know what to do."
read, a few paces distant.                    "Do, not delnde yourself," returned Kitty,
"I do. The deception is as plain to her as earnestly. a." You are iot dealing with the am-
poesiltle. Yout ied have no doubt about that," ple minded savage now."
responded Kitty, promptly and positively.      "Simple mi'ied,!" repeated Nil, shaking
"Then 1 know very well what will conic of his head.. "Nobody is more eunuin' nor an
it," added Clatri, emphatically. "I have noticed Ingin. Dont" talk to me about white folks
that a singular fatality follows Union people down inthe tatesI"
who in any manner come i   contact with us.  "As soon as it is dark," resumed Kitty, ad.
That rnai will be betrayed! Betray d? lie lering closely to her purpose, "go out quietly,
is betrayed already, if what yot tell mre is true. take your hirse from the stable, mount it, and
Your midnight ride had something to do with ,join your rmouttlameers. Yotfs horse's name is
it."'                                       Swingfoot--isn't"it ?"

r'f
v
,
P

f


48      MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE- BORDER.

"  allow 'tis, little woman."
"Canu he go-fast?" --
"it, can swing foot some, I should fay,"
cknoth Nick, with pride. " if he hadn't heen a,
e eeder, he'd- never got -that natnrioi rec3on.
you'dd ought to see him cat the ground;1i4
devoursat" with them leaps o' is'n, 'whion he11l
make faster'ri )you cal count. .Hes a -bos, he
is! You'.wouldn't think' that that was, the
reg'lar old Suggestion-should- ye ? it' tis
by mighty ! 1 turned him out to pastor', y'iu
see, for a few -years, -and he come up wonder-
ful. Ile used to be all bone; but the trouble
is now that he's runnin' all ft diuskle. Never
seed a fuadrnpid with so- much rmuskhe as hd's
got-at the present slpeakp! Used to think I'd
raytler have an anomile with notlin' bc~t bbiie;
but now I'm jest: as set otherr way; aned van't
tothtin' hut inuslde."'
"Use all. that muscle as soon- as you San,"
advised Kitty.
" I en recnpperate .  boss on-airtlh,"'N19ik
went on, fairly launched upon the inspiring,
topic of h'se-esh. "IDon't care ho'nw old tie,
is; not a tall. Jest slip off the sa idle acnd bri-
dIe, and turn him loose -on tthe* pciriie S.anet
alter a half a dozen 'yours spent'perbfitably is
grazin' the grass, and drinking' the cleut' waMtS
that flow down fromti the mountains, ani {ihe'll
renew  his age. Have   knrowed 'emi to shted-
their teeth and eLrpa  n mewones, by grcidna
I've, sometimes wished that.old women eOiid
be turned out in that -way, and ketlh d  up
afin young gals.'   :
"'I don't care a snap of' my finger for old
horses or old women," sid Kitty, impatiently.:
"And as for your stories, I shan't believe all of
th m.   I have heard that -you tell whop-
pers."
" That was a brother o' ninee" said Nick,
placidly. He was a lawyer, and that comes'of
hivin' a liar in the funily. So Sou won't me
to skeda.ldle-do ve ?''
' If hat means to go away, yes."
"Be hanged if I do!"
You'll be hanged if you don't !" said Kitty,
testily.
"Not while I have my senses, miss. I've
made up my mind not to go out of the wor(h
kiekin' at tue air. A rifle-ball is the thing foi'
me. Give me a rifle-ball, gal, right atween t'
eyes, when I go under. 'That's neat and quick;
th'd fight'in my line. I wouldn't thank nobody
to &amp;ote' boosting' me up to a tree. The airth' is
0.good a friend that I can't leave it, even to
dege . the prison secession  Confederators.
Vie. ilat o' niv foot or the flat o' my back
' Ust alters be'to mother airth. O Lord, yes!
Don't bring no roles fir an oIl trapper. Ropes
is for the highly}-civilised city critte's.  I
Wouldn't kill a dog with a rope, I wouldn't.
When I rub out an enemy, it'll be with lead or
*teel, no matter what his crimes be."

"Willyou take Swingfoot and go ?" persistd
Kitty,
" No, little gal," answered Nlek, in a thought.
ful mitanner," I won't take Swingloot aind go,
to-niglht. But I thank ye for your foretl ought
and gbadol-will.  Your' c.-ut se is well n:nnt,nnd
you laven't- said a word that I iatvsa't a pre-
ciated, or  that's  been  list to ri e. You're a
brave little woman, and sot ow  you n Ae nre
think o' that strarige had Arctie, ~t1rv time I
look a:t yt  Arch:e rin't a-1r t'ral fel- is he'"
" N~ !" rdturtcd KIitty, 11.d1l1y. "IReis I o
kind of a -foot. iHe -(i a1wrltd' his Lriain, r d
his intellect hasn't got Erhtitd yp."
." I thought it might Ic s me"t o'ti.utatkird,"
sail Nick, refleeively.  " l' c sEi'd( m er rvtr
seoe an i-:nitertstin'er oera'tic.  is 3(s are il:o
yonr'n, b   linigtuht' !  Ai d his Itc e is igh en't
as fisd'. 'He know1  (at i  h to 'kt p cut o' fire
and water-don't hle ?"
.Niek lookedd at Kitty u ith tncc rui g be: esty.
The cirfs face flushed witl,  rt r.
1" ArchibalId :oe, 'sir,-.: o Fcai s f lrcidity.
ad'i  , wniierftil :moritc ini r i:ni i .l d net
tIe drivelin :and 1itiul ecantie 11.It  u thirk
r Yon'A c it t t rp I3'in si    prnill) tl, O 3e p"
r - :l  1 te !"463mmy d sinf, itry ercrtly indeed.
Then 'uoking  ip .to  ick, sl.e.t1vd that
thr1. was a taiisehiter" s twinLkle iti his eyes.
Her p1tunuCue ps           if'ia il tn iltr a l.e
wqi tart'ed. 'Wonler 'iicii'h d  with lt r secret
fig:d-. -  Sting, cnrictsity 't sareia rhd. 'Viat
was in "ieck Whifies' 'ldert ?    lit uas le
odoig to  . Wh:.t did le kit w,i rd low did
he know it ?  She said to 141 self: "This maria
is very penttrating. Iis sin Il'.city mi-st nct
bb trusted.- His quietlln(s is shr et(dt(se."
" I will go lack to the house Ow," Eh said.
I don't like to be I r ated es a ehild."
Nick considered twr with a I temvolt etsmile.
"ll I tve faith in le. gooid gal ; 1::e faith in
old Nick Whifies, nsletsir lit. Slkp ea!m, as
the innocent should sleep. Pr uvidetce will care
for thee and for' me, for Ahebuc:iden  for all."
Strangely affected  by this intevitw, Kitty
hastened back to the house.
CHAPTER XVIII.
'      " -THE ANSWin.
.is. Kinmouth found herself in an emlar-
rasked -position.  She could 110 t'.ger trust
Kitty, and she felt very sure tint the latter
wvoulk'rofnse to perform  any moile niy sterzioms
errands. -'She wished to bear from  her ote to
Blackmer. She dared not leave the house to
visit the hollow tree,' where the answer was to 1 e
left ; anid yet it was a thing so delicate, thntshe
coull not intrust it to another.  Folly umas not
to be thought of for such a service, while Splny.
foot was equally objectionabeius a timessentger;
for she wished the holowf tree md its uses to be
known to herself and those legitimately in the

i
,t
f
4
i
3

a'
4,

4-3 ~ J/

(

K. I

41P

p
f.4,


MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK WIIFFLES ON TIIE BORDER.

secret, only'. So Mr's. Kinmouti grew nervous
A the night drew oil.
She appeared at the ten-table quite pale, and
with a bai lieadeache.  She bade her guests
good-nighit, and retired to her chamber early,
on aea)miit of hei disposition.
Nick experienced a feeling of relief when
freed from lier watchfulness ; and, indeed, a
weight seeie 1 lifted froum the spirits of all at
her de) torture. No oiie but Nick, however,
niistrasted why she lhad that headache. le
was ver i well assured that she would steal
silently fe.ru thi hliese, and go for Aliek Hark-
er's aiwer. lie wnal ibase gone out, waited
for her ap)e rinIaIc, and watched her to and
fro a thr tree whicj he believed she would
visit, hIa i she not been a wouan, and had not,
his faith iii Are lie iLa been unwavering.
Nick wts ribit iin his surmises.  4s soon -as
it w1  d-trac-iv i:nilntieiitly she waited for
that (dar'i ass! -.I's. Kiiiunouith put on an old
dres3, wiiie i hI t1, at s:re past time, belonged
to the w t'Irob: of S.01  D    e,iand, inl this
disguise, iv ait ste lily down the hack -stairs, out
at ta  b te-1,r, an Ithence, Akei a shadow,
across the op ea shrubbery into the nearest
thicket. Sie Ii i1, of course, but a single object
in vie, a' I t I t VLt w  the response to her be-
trayal ofl the tall, t'in rilnun, whom she believed
to be Nice   Willi:'3.  She groped  her way
though t    bali;es; she went straight, by a
sor of instint, toi the tree.
She p   1i an inst-lnt to gather strength,
then, sto opuig, theist her hald into the hollow.
A figure ron up a I eily and grasped her arm.
She slirieke I witi terror.
Whoareye ?  Vint do you want here ?"
"""sAtic li0rner t at spoke-shle knew his
voice.
S Uianl   me, II-trker! Don't you  know
me ?'' ou:ite.t'e I Mirs. Kiiinouth, excitedly.
"I ou iuto koV the voice, but L:ig lme if
I know tre oatild !" :ausw're,l Harker, gruffly.
" I ain't glii' to stai no tricks, you know.''
" Look at mly face !"  She threw back her
thick vail. "I a i Mrs. Kinmouth. I have
come for the papr."
I am dnae i  if you didn't. deceive me!
T'srouight 't.va  slme interloper that hal got
hol I of onr secret in some way.  Come to the
post-offi', eh ?"    /        --
" Yes," s i l Mrs. Khimouth.  " You need not
hold my hIui an I;iry longer."
" It's a nice little hand to hold," reft urned
Harker, landing. " I don't know of any face
I'd rather see than yours. , We're all right, you
know."
JMrs. Kin mouth drew back a little ; she did
not like the manier i'of hlie bushwhalckeer.
" I left a p'fper here three-quirters of an hour
agio, and _went away." said i'arker  hilien I
thought somethiiig ight liaplen to it, and
came back, and have been on the watch ever

since to prevent mistakes.' Ile put his Land
into the tree and took out a folded paper.
" Here's the diocuient. I can tell you all that's
in it, but you'd better take it, so that it shall be
before you in black and'white. Between two
and three, people sleep the soundest; and that's
the time fixed on. But you can real it at yout
leisure, when you get home."
Atic stopped ; but there was evidently some-
thing more that Le wished to sly.
-1 How strange that we should meet here I
Really, Mrs. Kirnouth, you are better looking
than Clari.''
Harker tried to be insinuating ; but to the
rebel lady his smile was a grimace, and thq
tender glance of his eye anr ugly Jeer.
This is no time for jesting, Mr.' Harker,"
said Mrs. Kinrmouth, dry'ly.
" I swear i'm in earnest!" protested Harker.
You are more bewitching than your girls.
I'll hang Kinmouth. Dam ned if I don't!-'
He threw his arm about Mr's. Kinmouth's
waist. She disengaged herself iii an instant.
 You are a fool, Aick I" said she. " You'vo
been drinking whisky. Be thankful if 1 don't
report you."
Report me ! You won't be so cruel," said
the ruffian, in a wheedling tone, still continuing
his advances.
"Go and get sober! exclaimed Mrs. Kin-
mouth, angrily, and string him   upon the
mouth with her hand, sire turned and ran toward
home as fast as she could.   Aliek staggered
after her a few steps, ran against t tree, stopped,
'put his back against it, swore badly, anid said
" For that I'll make you suffer, uiy lady
I'll persecute your daughters; and    your
husband don't come to grief, it'll be through no
fault of mine.''
Meantime, Nick waited for Archibald Roe.
He did not allow his anxiety to be apparent.
He became uncommonly communicative. He
talked  continuously to the girls.  Ile told
stories of his uncles and aunts ; and was never
more cbaraeteristically Nick Whifnles. It rap-
pened that Ire was dealing with unusually bright
people. The cairn eycs of Chiri looked throdlgh
aLi-his iunmors,,and saw expectarncy rind sibci-
,tudle beneath the surface ; while Kitt , Icing
prepared. for -something  urt of the ordinary
course, was not much     deceived  by Nick's
facetiousness.
Mountain Max sat near the trapper, and the
young women observed that, within r aerb of his
right hand, leaning against the wall, was a heavy
rifle, which they hanl not seen before. '1'rey
wondrhar'ed where it came froni.
There was no fire urn thre hearth, for the nights
were warm. A single lampI I'.rredmon the man-
tie, lighing the rorim nbut iirmlv. 'I here was a
light, quick footstip withinlit. The lat chl was
lifted, and Archie came in. He entered with
more spirit than usual, and loss abstr action of

61


N

b2          MOUNTAIN MAX ;~OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.
manner. They all -noticed,_with surprise-that and vacant stare, but full of light and intensity.
is, the members of the family-that he had some Archibald Roe had gradually become to her ,
kind of a fire-arm in his hand. It was small, and perplexing problem ; a baffling study ; a con-
peculiar im its make ; and, in the scarcity'of such tinual enigma. Wisdom and folly, quickness and
articles, they wondered where the lad picked up, stupidity, simplicity and adroitness, were so
such a prize. Nick and Max exchanged glances. mingled in his character, that everything- like
There was. an immediate lighting-up of the analysis, on her part, had been frustrated-
countenance of the former.                      She resolved to see the contents of that twist-
Kinmouth scarcely noticed the boy ; Clari ed slip of paper. She went directly to Nick,
turned her eyes on him for a moment only ; but and while pretending to look, with girlish curi-
Kit ty watched him closely. Hie had been aib- osity, at the little rifle, cunningly insinuated her
sent since the previous evening-an evening small hand into Nick's, and, before he was aware
which they could not forget ; a time startling  of her purpose, drew away the paper.
and memorable. his coming could not but.pro-    " Don't be alarmed," she said, in a low tone.
duce inquiry and conjecture.              -   "I am not going to be kept in the dark always.
Ah !"'said Nick. "Here's the bug-boy. I mean to be in your secret, whatever it is. You
What kinds, of insex have you got now ? shall have me for a confidant whether you will
Bring that pop-gun here and let me look at it." or not. Trust me, or I'll stand in your way."
Who are you ?" answered Archie, stopping   " Come, gal, don't bother me !" answered
suddenly, and staring vacantly at the moun- Nick, coaxingly, holding her gently by the
tamieer. " What do you come here for, when    wrist. " You'll git me into a cussed little diffi-
there'sso many places to go to, and so many  kilty, fust thing you know. Give it up, and i'll
people that know you better. You want to see take ye into partnership. I will, by mighty !"
roy gun. Do you know how to handle guns ?"     - " You may as well let me alone," persisted
"Some'at !" said Nick. " I'm straight from  Kitty. " You can't get it from me. For once,
the woods. That bit o' iron is mine."         I am going to have a will of niy own."
He pointed a tawny finger at his rifle. It    This conversation was carried on in an aside
was a dark, greasy-looking weapon, with a strap tone.
at the stock, with which to sling it across the  " A compromise," proposed Nick. " I'll read
shoulders.                                   it fust, and then-"
" That's been fired a good many times, stran-  " And then you will put it into your pocket!"
ger," answered Archie. "You can take mine interrupted Kitty, very quietly.
in your hand, but be very careful, or it will go  " She's in airnest, 1 swear to gracious !" mul-
off."                                        tered Nick, smiling at her pertinacity, yet quite
Archibald approached Nick, and held out his uneasy.
little rifle. Nick took it, weighed it in his hand,  Archie watched her countenance with eager
noted its calibre, shook his head, and smiled interest.
distrustfully.                                "Well, gal, have your own way. Read, i
"Too small !" lie muttered. " New-fangled' there's anything in it to read, and give it back
consarn. Not fit for sarvice, I allow. The bar- to me," added Nick, submitting with the utmost
rel goes on a hinge. Loads at the wrong eend-  good temper. "I don't believe, arter all, it
don't it ?"                                 - could fall into safer hands.  But you'-re a
"Touch the forward trigger, underneath," sharp one, you be.. Your eyes are quicker'n an
said Archie, stealthily pushing Nick with his Ingin arrer. You connect cause and effect right
knee.                                       smart."
Nick gave hin a look of intelligence. He      Kitty Kinmouti didn't"wait for any further
pulled the trigger ; the breech rose up, and the concession, but keeping her back turned upon
muzzle was depressed. Nick"looked into the the rest of the comupanyuntwisted clie paper,
wintiig tube, and saw a twisted bit -of paper. and read it. It was written in a neat and sclnol-
He drew it out, concealing it in the palm of his early hand. At the top it said:
hand. This was done dexterously, but the at-
tentive eyes of Kitty had followed his move-       "(Copy of the Answer Found in the T7e.)
snouts. She saw the protruding fraction of pa-  "A strong party willsurround the house between the
.per, and. she saw him  manipulate it into his hours of two and three.. I, will see that -my men are
11o1ny  alm  Tht, o hr, le~it smeting  potedso that themre shall be no pnssibility of failure.
homny pa. 'hnat, to her, meit something. You are right about its being Nickt Wjiffles. It was him
If it meant something, the meaning must be who saved your worthy husband fromn gettinga taurn out
from Arche to Nick ; and if there were such a of the window, last night, and also prevented justice be-
meaning, the youth must be more than usually i"g csonecon the body of that fellow called Mountain Max,
mneaminig tineyu~utlm mst         whmosewherabouts you made knsow- to ins. If we could
lucid. Anything that concerned is sanity or bag botiathesecmeatures at tihe sametime, we slouhl.
insanity, interested her ; for she had detected  think ourselves particularly fortunate. This Max is a
more coherency and sense in his conduct hman pupil of Nick's, and is a great brawny chap, with
any member of the household. She had often- strength enough for tim, an rather decent-looking.
any spred hif tye housohe Snt ind aoft ie's dangerous, and miust be got ui of before he has a
eat surprised hiis eyes upon hen, not irs a fixed chance to do mischief. Expect us at the time herein

h. -

MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.

named, and don't be at all alarmed at any disturbance
you may hear in the night.
"Yours, for the Institutions,
" ILACKMER.
"P. Se-i came near losing a certain note ; but re-
turning to the cabin, luckily recovered it, so that no
harm came of my carelessness. Your kindness and the
white plume are remembered. If I show the white feath-
er to the Fcderals, it will not be in the usual manner.
"-B.'"
-The young girl having read this, understood
everything. The whole truth flashed through
her mind. She perceived the purport of the
letter she had carried. She felt ill-tised and
humiliated. At first she was angry with her
mother ; but that; feeling was of shob continu-
ane ; sorrow cane after it, treading upon its
retreating shadow.     "-
She handed the wrinkled scrap of paper
quietly and sadly to  Niek.  The latter had
good eyes ; lie glanced compassionately at the
girl, then slowly mastered the writing, which
was not quite so plain to hin as the trail of a
Choctaw. He slipped it into his pocket, say-
ing--
"Never mind, little woman, never mind! It
don't trouble me an attom. All these things is
in our lifetime. Brighten up!  A heap o' good
may come out on't. You wanted me to mount
Swingfoot and be, off, thinkin' I'd;be taken on-
awares. Now that was kind in ye, and marci-
ful, as 'twere; but you see I weren't onperpared
for s'prises., 0 Lord, no!"
During this time, Kiamouth and Bosworth
were earnestly engaged in conversation ; but
Clari was left to amuse herself, which she did
by watching Kitty and trying to penetrate this
by-play. She thought she perceived that some
secret matter was behig canvassed ; but she
had so much faith in her sister, that she was
sure of knowing all she ought to, in due time.
Max left his host and joined the little circle.
"I've got the details, my boy," said Nick.
r--   W   ebg afeard o' the gal; she's in the ring,
now, and knows as much about it as I do. I'd
kept her out, on account of her feelin's ; but
she's rayther breachy, and in   she jumped!
Nick looked at her so kindly, that she began to
love hn. He put his brown hand on herbrown-
er curls. " She's a Unioner, Max, true Union-
er. Her good mamma will come round right,
one o' these days."
"Don't make me like you !" murmured Kit-
ty, gratefully. -" I don't want to like'anybody."
"Sooner or later, by-and-by, now or then, in
the course o' natur, in the happenin' of car-
eumstances, there's one as you'll come to like ;
and the'naine o' that one shall not be herein
mentioned by me. 0 Lord ! no. Not what.
somer.   Not by   no  outspoken language o
mine, although my nat'ral eyes has been on
that individooal, and seen all the treasures of
iris love for somebody; which somebody may
be a thousand miles from here, for anything I
shall say to the contrary."

63

Guilty or not guilty, Kitty's eyes drooped.
Her long lashes quivered, opened, shut, and her
cheeks flushed strangely. She did not really
seem to know what caused her perturbation.
Archie had produced from some depository
on his person, a card of recently-stabbed bugs,
that were yet writhing on their respective pins.
Their feeble wings fluttered in the pains of
crucifixion. Hearing Nick go on in this way,
the card slipped from his fingers, and dropped
at Kitty's feet.
The mountain-man drew up his shoulders,
and the smile that came to hiscomical lips
was as pleasant as a woman's.
"What a condemned: world 'tis!" lie mut-
tered. "There's diffikilties in't, but the diffi-
kilties git straightened o'ut, arter a while. There
wasn't never nothin' so crooked that it couldn't
be straightened. You can look through prov-
idence like the double sights of a gun, if you
only know how to lay your face to't. Don't let
nobody's heart be troubled.'
Nick stopped. '"Matters are workia'," he
added, nodding to Bosworth. "The sbush-
whackers are cousin' to take us, presently.
Prehaps they'll have an easy time on't, my
son !"
Kitty Kinmouth stood staring.at the moun-
taineer. She wanted to be angry, but she
didn't know whom to be angry with, nor what
about; so she gave it up, and pouted.
Max found opportunity to glance from her
to Clari.
"You don't act like one as is to be hanged at
three o'clock," said Nick, with quiet humer.
" Instead o' perparin' to leave the airth, you
seem to be fixim' your mind more on't." Then
to Kitty: " Come, little woman, take your sis-
ter and leave us. Don't borrer no trouble.
Sleep as peacefully as if there weren't a bush-
whacker within a hundred miles."
"We'll go," answered Kitty, " but not to
sleep. We won't sleep while our defenders
watch. Clari is brave. You can trust Clari
and I. She shall know all. I hope you won't
allow yourselves to be taken. I'm sure you
won't. Keep as much from him"-she glanced
at her father-" as you consistently can. I.
don't want him to be shocked ; because her
eyes may be opened, you know, and she may,
when she sees clearer, regret all this."
" My friend understands you," said Max.
"Though brave as a lion; he-has a heart like a
woman."
Kitty bowed gratefully, and, in turning, met
the eyes of Archibald Roe. She never had
seen them so bright and handsome. They gave
her a strange thrill-a sensation divided be-
tween pleasure and pain.
The girls left the room together, and the eyes
of two persons followed them with adoration.
\ --

*1


a {
'i
4
4
t
'
h
r
'
7i'
' : ,
y
{
spnpl
5d3,

5-

64         .MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.
-CHAPTER XIX.                  I  " They are too good friends to be parted," she
Mr n w '0Sio SAVE m.          said, by-antd-byv; "so i'll not trouble myself
Mrs. Kin ontii reachede dHoese in a state of about ttemit. Let themg~. to the tender mercies
'trepidation. She  iw creating hurriedly when of Alick Ulirker. Toere I That settles that !"
she opened the door and went tip to the chain-  She thrust her feet, into soie emi brodrcl
etn. Sally   omse was somewhat on the move slippers, smoothed her hair, took up a book, and
that night, and Mrs. Kinmouth ran against her drew an easy-chair to the table. She was going
in th ,lr .ipe   al                         t  ed    n 'foego~rt bit. Btswortih. 'Ier eyes
" IWh is it  cried Sally, holding her fast. rested olit he  pen  areas ubott five minutes,
It's Dinah, or Rose, or Folly, I'll he bound . with some steadiness  then they began to wan-
1 won't have no sort w'tin' in this house. Go- der; and filtally paused on the tirror opposite,
it                   oom, wasnt ye, to steal in which her whole person was reflected. Sie
someh n?    'own stairs, you baggage, or Ill looked well. She was charning, and ste could
It yonr  m e  Sa'  L,            -       not help  having  a eonseiousness  of her own  at-,
Ki ishe, Sally! Let me go," sailMrs. tractions. She was more fascinating in that
"einmouth, much annoyed. " You know better." simple costume than she had been that day.
" Beg your .pardoutma'atn ." muttered Sal  She wondered what Max would think of help
ly. "'You took me by surprise, as 'twere, for I were he to see itr then ?
couldn' -hear ye any more than if a mouse was  The book dropped from her hand into her lap,
conli'e;nd thecloes you' e got o dot't and slowly slipped-to the carpet. She was be-
fael like tlemi you ' uaally wears. Shall I strike ginning to suffer., She looked into her iteart,
 lig"t, ttuare l   -uand saw that the brawny mountaineer had taken
want no asistae Vts   inmotith, curtly. a deep Io d of her feelings. She was'astonished
Qi[ w eat  i tee.  hen you walk about at Iter own weakness.  She read, with pale
cieruse at tight, I thiik it wotld be well to cheeks and pent-up breath, the new and strange
ear.y a light  ttatyon ut anot run against peo- hand-writing. It was a revelation site itad never
Tie. I dislike to be pustei."               anticipated. She was jealous of Clari: she was
Teunt ly felt er  ay into ier room, in no jeaus of Kitty. She trembled at the thought
pleasant ftarae of mind. She shutit 10 door  of wa ltt might happen. She was shocked to
nuid suithown tote before taking off ier dis- think sthe had betrayed tint ! Death, after all,
guise. Whue  s hera  grown s alotu, sie dret  is no light thinr. She reversed her decision
the paper from ier bosot, stuck a light,tand she would save Max. But how was she to do
teat it. She ha-ged Color when site came to that, and leave Nick to his fate ?
thathpart. which  ilad refereute to Mountain Max.  She thought of a score of expedients, none of
"wSoy haetphea failed I" sie muttered. " But which proved practicable on examination. It
whly have they lecnived ie about it ?"  11er was easier to save both than one. But that wass
eyes hurled  oun ;site read the lines that follow- not the object to be compassed. She iuistinet-
ed. "'A great, brawny fellow !" she repeat- ively felt that Nick wis her enemy. They [tad
ed, quite startled.  " 'A great, brawny fellow, naturally and instantly arrayed themselves in
andwdecent looking!    t' ftis Blackmer ac- personal antagonism.
bnowledg's that lite is deeit ooking, he must  . After tree quarters of an tour of mental con-
be Handsome ; ant if he is handsome, the ian tradition, Mirs. Kinimouth resolved what she
they cti Boswtrth is the person, and I have 'would do. She arose, openeil the door;-m'd
beenttricked. Why wit it?  Because they dis- looked for Folly. She found her asleep in the
cLbed rm. If they disturbed me, tiat distrust hall ; for she haunted that region at iight, that  -
caine from some cause. Perhaps my absence she might be within call. By coillutumi consent,
ade hiem   suspicious. At all events, I have tis girl had become common property. She
been hooditked. My niountati Apollo is the waked her, by dint of much pushing and shak-
uuitu I betrayed !"                         itig.                     iliu~anslk
Sew   e ntuswed the paper in her hand, and, for a  " Glory, missus !" said Folly, rubbing her
few hmaoetts, was overcome by the discovery eyes.'
"heItt istae. irt'   1-                    ." Get tip, nd be sure tihat rou arc awake I'"
eeIt is the fist tne they ever deceived me replied Mrs. Kintmouth, qiettv-. Folly got up
bffectutavy," she said, in a smothered voice ; drowsily, i awning to the last stiaes of heaviness,
butt I have deceived tit uay times, and will  " You know whom you -are, nti where you
again I Te questions is, shal I save in, or let are-don't you "' asked Mirs eitmotith. The
hei peist owitithe other ? ' A pupil of Nick's', latter had discreetly taken her riding-switch in
ste went on, stillquotiug. " Fiu'm friends, of her had, and, by way of quickie
coure   One wdl not desertthe other.  Wiat tons, gave her a smart blow crosss her tare
can Ido?"                                   sio-lders.
hearose, tidremoved ier disguise, and threw  "My soul's marlin' on, missrs I' protested
it i     nteo a d ak closest. Silput on a wrapper, Folly, beut little discouttnteiatnced by this sharp
thinking inteutly aii the while.           teutttier.P

" I want you to go down, girl, and tell Mr.
Rosworth-thie large man-that I wish to see
tin a few minutes. Conduct him to my chai-
John Brown's body !" exclaimed Folly,
iaikiig a comical face. Mrs. Kinmouth turned
either sItsnhy.
"Tell bins what I have told you in a low
viice, and without attracting any body's atten-
tion, Don't blunder, unless you want a whip-
into-imourrow v
Folly started off instantly. She paused at
the top of the stairs, and, looking back at her
etiphatie mistress, said:.-
Lars toulderin' in the grave! Glory, hal-
lelu'al1,
Thie lady raised her switch, atnd the black face
slisappeared. - Mrs. Kinmouth waited nlear the
stairs till she heard a mtan's footsteps in the hall
below ; then retired to ier room, and arranged
herself very prettily in her easy-chair.
' A heavy, firm step cate up, and the form of
Sosworth presently darkened her door. -He
bowed, and looked it her. His expression was
" Madam, you have sent for me.    What do
You wish ?"
Come in, Mr. Bosworth. Excuse me for send-,
ing for you. Be seated, sir  I would not have
troubled you had not may reasons been special.
I receive few visitors in my chamber."
No apologies to n, madam," responded
Max. " A woman's wishes I htave always re-
speted."
There was a'touch of severity, the lady
hittuglt, in his voice.
"zWe had better come at the truth at once,"
she said. "I aim aware that you are the person
pursued by the Secessionists last 'night.  For
some reason, my family tried to mislead ime
about voftr identity ; bust I au  a woman not
willing'to remain deceived. I take it for granted
at y(s have a natural love of life."
She lifted her eyes to his quietly and calmly.
They were like Claris, but more fiery.
You are right," answered Max, thrilled by
the beauty of the woman. "I wish to live a
long time."
He was thinking of Clari when hue said that.
"In that case," replied Mrs. Kinmouth, " you
will leave this house without loss of time. Be-
ing a stranger in this part of the country, you
probably do not know tie'character of tie des-
peradoes called butshwlhackcrs. They tried to
kill you last night, and failing in that, they will
return with-additional numbers, and accomplish
I their purpose.   Your safety lies in instant
Flightt"
ought to thank you for ye wotartunig,"
said Max, considraly wrought u1on by the
gracefulness of Mrs. Kinmoutl,. " I omtit not
to ask you any questions about th   t source of
our information.. I as .grutily hnorl by
his marl; of your frioudl; m;oht_. Althoiugh

an inhabitant of the Western wi.derness, I am
not without sensibility. Your hips, I mu sure.
ordittarily have power to control me ; but it
you will allow me the hospitality of your house,
1 will remain. If you bid me forth, I will wrap
ine in ty blanket, and sleep soundly under the
nearest tree."
le spree modestly and gently, but he looked
im earnest.
" Under the nearest tree you will be but lit-
tie safer than here. I am not going to turn you
out of doors," returned Mrs. Kmutmnouth, wihith, i
bewitching siie. " I am iterested mu the -'pres-
ervation of 'our life," site went on.  t" We al
have our peculiar notions and sy mpathies, Mr.
Bosworth."
For the life of him, Max could not help tfh ik-
ing of her betrayal of him to Alick Ilarker.
" Our notions sometimes change, he observed,
smiling.
" Most true I" answered the lacy, colorig.
" We are often transformed. I confess to it
personally.  Will you not oblige te?   Will
you not leave this house at once .    Or, at
least, within the hour ?"
" For the purpose of safety, to ." said Max.
" I wiiunot desert a comrade, though a score of
busihwhacekers were iat mys lieeis."
" Remember," resumed Mrs. Kinmouth, earn-
estly,, " that the tall an below is not in dan-
oer."
"Are you sure of that ?" asked Bosworth,
looking keenly at Mrs. Kinmouth. The latter
was disconcerted.
It was you they sought yesterday. and
they will seek you again to-night. Of what
political importance is the person telow 2 Of
none, whatever.   He seems to be a simple
hunter, not above the average of human ca-
pacity. The Confederates want little of him.
Let him sleep in peace; but go you to a pines
of security, it you know of such."
"No !" said Max, shaking his head.
" I entreat you to go!
Her voice was full of persuasive earnestness.
Pardor ae, madam, but I must remain,"
answered Max, seriously. "If the bushwhtaok-
ers intend to visit this house to-tight, I mean
to be here to defend it. I know how to 'eceive
such gentry. I was betrayed into their hands
last night, and had it not been for your heroio
and beautiful danglhter, I should- have perished."
Mrs. Kinmouth's heart throbbed painfully.
Despite her secession faith, site felt guity and
criminal before Boswor-h. Ills composed and
hionst face was a terrible rebuke -of her treach-
ery. Site began to feel miserable. 1cr self-
respect was every moment growing Jess, She
was ins a tet, the meshes of wich were tightent-
in ; around Aher. She felt that tietn had been a -
leak somewhere in her phmns. Some of-her
secrs hLad-'miysterioussly escaped. She askpd
herself why sue inwardly tremtlel before this

I!

MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.


56          MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK WIIFFLES ON THE BORDER.
mountaineer. What has his presence brought I  "Wiy do you-press me ?" he exclaimed,
to affect her so much?. Something said to trembling. "Both are not far from us ! Both
her. ",You love him'; but she tried not to remind me of you !"
hear it.                                       "It must be Kitty," thought Mrs. Kinmouth.
Can no persuasion shake your resolution?'" 1Kittylooks like me. Clari has no right to
she asked, in a gentle tone.              look like me."
mours. I;am sure weul, if it were pos-   " Under this roofs" she said, faintly.
sibie." replied Max, gallantly.               Max bowed. He looked down silently, and
Give mue no hollow words !" retorted Mrs. encountered another danger-Mrs. Kinmouth's
Knmioutli, arising. "Give me not mockeries small slipperelfoot.  Bosworth shut his eyes,
in ritern for the wish to preserve you. It is turned, And groped for the door. His strong
pesi.h that we are political enemies ; but I limbs shook. He heard a sigh and a sob as he
did wish to saye you.   You are obstinate. went out.
you repay my kindness with dogged firmness;   He did not look back. Ie hurried down
whiieh is not the proper coin for a lady. I stairs and out into the night-air, panting and
lhve done my duty. Go. sir, ands remember, nervous.
wh en it is too late, that Helen Kmnmouth would  Nick Whiffles came out presently, and found
have  -veI you."     '                      him walking about in an abstracted manner.
TPhat was a critical moment for Mountain They conversed in low voices ; then Nick went,
M1.   for, as she stood before him, she looked away, and was gone half an hour.  When he
nore like Clani ,that ever. Her graceful dig- retured, his countenance wore its usual serenity
o   'dt, too,    umleased huh ; and, more tliaii ill, he of expression.
was~r fluttered, as lie -rid good reason to be.
When a man feels flattered, he is half won.              CTAPTER XX.
n1:0lit not been fIo the thought of Clan, Bos- -       A VISIToR IN DISGUIs.-
wort /would have fallen at her feet. The im-  When the mountaineers reentered the house,
:ge of Clare stepped between them, and that Nick extinguished the single lamp that burned
vunmge was a shield. The stalwart figure of on the mantel. They bolted the door, then lay
Xhax experienced a momentary tremor.  His down quietly upon tie floor, with their weapons
irosebiient like a willow-wand in the wind. within reach. Kinmouth occupied a small room
The glorious eyes of Ielen Kiunmouth nagnet- on the same floor ; and, wearied by the distract-
ize him dangerously.                      ing thoughts of the day, and trusting to the
He stepped back. Ile brushed his hand across brave men who had so tacitly taken charge of
his forehead, a d its shadow, passing over his his dwelling, was soon hleep. With the excep-
vision,shnt out franninstant, the beautiful wom- tion of the servants, lie was the only one who
an, anid-his resolution sprang back again. ,He slept well thatnight. The House on the Bluff
toork her hand without daring to look ,in her had watchful inmates.
Yace.                                         Clami and Kitty sat with clasped hands, listen-
Your last bidding, madam, shall be obeyed," ing to every sound, thinking the night terribly
lie said."I will go from  this chamber, but long. If either dozed.an instant, she started up,
not an ungrateful nor an uniflattered man. I thinking it must be two o'clock; but on con-
wi your- power ; and were it not for one recol- suiting Clari's watch, found that sInh-e  -
.leetiont, and fir one face, I would cheerfully dragged heavily.
obey your slighest wisi,.and deem myself happy  Mrs. Kinmouth, when left alone by Bosworth,
mtiig your slave.'                      wis, for a tuinie, quite disturbed. 11er interview
lie felt her hand tremble in his, and he re- with hinlhad increased her love for him with-
]irrquished it with nervous haste.           out accompliihring her purpose.  There was
a  ad to leave you,'l he continued ; for satisfaction, however, im knowing that she had
pr would not trust myself a moment longer inideeply moved, if lthrfd not conquered him.
you r preserice; with any thiorrght or expectation She solaced herself with the reflection thirt thre
of *eping the purpoawhich I have forntaet, strong mn had become weak inthereands, and
end which you wish to change. Woman never hid fled fiomn fear of himself. Was it'a hope-
wrunig such a confession from me before."  less thing ? She thought not. But that "Prec-
Mrs. Kinmouth's face lighted up resplendent- ollection" and that" face" haunted her. If these
Jy. A deep thrill of pleasure went quivering meant her Kitty, hat could she do? If they
tirougnih  ier.  Sie had half- conquered the meant Clani, she knew what she would do. SIe
mighty mars of the mountains. lie was nearly would he artful. Not that she wished to harm
ready to take the oath of eternal alliegance.  the girl, but because ler infatuation hurried
Tiat recollection and thiurt face ?" she nmur- her on.,
nured, softly, touchinig him with the li of a  Ini the midst of this flurry bf thought, t .re
white finger,                               was a knocking at the outer door ; not a timid
M  sbrea,ithed  hard, arnd glauced  aronud, andn ucertami summons, but a vigorous andcon-
Jmoloel ssy, for thi - door.               "tinOuous demand for entrance. She opened timo

MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON TIIE BORDER.

57

door, which she had purposely left ajar, and  room, sat down.
crossing the narrow hall, leaned over the banis-  "Where are you from ?" asked Nick.
ter to leara what would follow. Where were     " Well, stranger, I'm from the different points
those mien--Bosworth, Nick, and her-husband ? o' the compass," replied the man, readily. " It
Were they watching below, or had they gone to don't matter much whar I come from, I guess, if
bed ? Sire hai wished to know this during the I'm all right. I'm trying' to rally the boys, here-
whole evening 'rut that indisposition of here bouts."
had worked against her desires.: for hier worth " You're Union, I allow ?" said Nick, eyeing
Kinmouth should believe her in bed, with Kitty the disguised rebel sharply.
beside her, aid w t napkns to her aching head,  " If I be, I ain't ashamed on't. Know whar
and all the little medical accompaniments of to go, I do, and what kind o' folks to come
such an illness.                              amongst. - Kinmouth ain't no traitor, he ain't.
SIe queried whether the person who knocked If-you know what he is, you know what I be.
wild be admitted, with or without questioning. pooty tauch. Don't be skeered, mister."
Sire was surprised to see the bolt slip back, and  Kitty, listening with her mother, heard this,
the door open, without a word being spoken. and said, inwardly
That, she was sure, was unlike Kininouth.       "Let me see if you will deceive Nielk isif-
T1her w-uas a charge interrogation-point ig lies- flea, gallant colonel!I"'
nimind. Did this ready opening of the door in-  "I'll try and be ca'm !" said Nick. "I'm
dictate a want of wit, or a great deal of it? rayther a skittish animile. I sometimes shy,
Some one came,in, and the door was shut and like a yerlin' perarie colt. Be moderate,
tilted i-befre anything was said. Then she stranger. What do you most giner'ly come to
rearl Nick Whieffes.say:                 .dinner by ?"
Ruavther dak here, mister. Don't run aging  " Eli ?" queried the colonel, quite mystified,
things,~but keep still, anid 'l have a light in a at first, but what was meant presently'worked
minute. Glad I hadn't gone to bed. No fiend ito hris wvise noddie,
to feather-beds, I ain't. Prefar'to sleep on the  " Oh, I see ! Bart Bramble, my name is.
floor, anytime, or on the ground, for that mat- You've heerd of him, if you've been long in
ter. And not on the ground, nyther, but on these partc.
the boughs of trees, if we can git''em."   .    "rit Bramble. That's the application, is
A feeble light streamed up, followed by a sul- it?  I have heerd o' hin, and not much good of
piiurous odor. Nick had struck a match and him, nyther. They say ie's a p'ison Lincoln
lighted the lamp.                            uadjiitator ."
" How are- ye, Kinmouth ?" said the person   Kitty smiled. Mrs Kinmouthl wondered what
who had entered. "It's a long time since I they were coming at.
seen ye."                   .i.                 "~I'm a Federal boss !" said Blackmer, bellig-
I allow 'tis! Shouldn't known ye if I erently.     "I'm  a Union alhigator from  the
hualn't-seen ye. Darned if I know ye as 'tis!" Swamps ! Do-you want to be chawed, stran-
respon4ed Nick, with perfect nonchalance.     ger ?"
That's odd ! Used to go to school with ye   Blackmer looked very grimly at Nick, who
when ye's a boy. No ; hold on ! You don't received his glumness with characteristic indif-
°    -tridi 'the same chap, neither," said the man ference.
who iad entered, doubtfully.                    Inm a p'isou sarpent !" he said, in a mild
"No more I ain't. Take a seat, stranger. voice.  " I'n a Secession copperhead from the
I'm doin' the honors here at the present speak- cypress brakes ! Don't tread on me, Fed'ral !
in'. You-'re welcome, fur as I'm consarned."  I in't quarrelsome, but am rayther squeamish
"Thank ye !" said the late visitor. " Don't 'bout hanvini' my head broosed."
keer if I do."                                  Kitty shoul have seen the men scrutinize
'There ,was another door ajar besides Mrs. Kin- each other, but she was obliged to be content
mouth's, and there were other ears that listen- with the sense of hearing.
ei. Kitty was on the alert. She knew the       The fictitious Bramble was disconcerted.
voice at once ; it was Blackmer's ; disguised as Here was a difference that ie had not calculated
it. was, it did not deceive her. A new interest upon. He had thought that to be a savage
was immediately thrown -about the stranger. Unionist would be the highway to the hearts of
She flitted; with light footfall, to the top of the these people.
stmrs, arid was not m uch surprised to find her  Max,,with closed eves, heard what .was pass-
mother there, They glaicedat each other, and ing, but gave no sign of wakefulness.
said nothing. There was but little light in the  4" You let me alone, and I'll let you alone,"
hall, and that -streamed through Mrs. Kin- said Blackmer, softening.     "I ain't goin' to
mouth's door, or flickered up faintly from be. tackle a man that's perfected by Kinmouth.
low.                                         I'm some ill a tussel, but I don't spring on no-
The man, aiter glancing at the quiet figure of body without shakin' my rattles."
'Max'on the floor, and into the corners of the  " That's kind  and  megnenimous I   Woull

I4

ti_- -

L

_,..

s
~ ',t l...s,..y


i
Is ,
1~

MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON TIIE BORDER.

69

J

68          MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK WIIIFFLES ON THE BORDER.
ocurcely thought tiat of a Fed'ral boss! Don't fact, you know. Do' they raise much hemp in
kick 'thout layin' down your ears, I s'pose :"  these parts?"
Nick was very quiet indeed. He had observ-  There was a provoking expression on Nick's
ed his visitor well Ilis tattered garments. and face,
dirty ftee, and red wi, did not prove insulner-  " They raise' a good many o' these here
able. IIe had penetrated his disguise in two things!" exclaimed Blackimer, pulling a revolver
minutes after he had lighted the lamp. He knew  fromii his ragged coat, and leering fiercely at
the man was an imipostor. His naime and rank 'Nick.  ";There's heaps o' these jokers, my
he had no mteais of knowing, but he was certain brown coiperhead, atween here and the North'
that lie cine for no friendly purpose.    pole."  Then to Archie: " Youngster, go and
Just then Archibald Roe appeared. He seem- tell Mrs. Kinmouth that a gentleinan wants to
ed to coie trim some dark corner of the room. see her."
The visitor was a little startledat first, but af.  Archibald walked up to the disguised colonel
ter stud viiii his features for a moment, ceased with a slow stage step, and favored him with a
to notice liiio.                            steady stare.
Archie walked to and fro, talking to himself.  " Well, that's interestin'!'' said the wily Con.
Nick stealthily followed him with his eyes. Ilis federate, sticking grimly to  his character.
mutterings were incoerent, and lie made mean- " Come, fool, wiill you go* I)o you see this
ingless gestures. lie passed before and behind critter?"  The man shook his pistol at Archie,
Nick, and finally up and down between Black- who began to go backward toward the door,-
ner and the door. This continued for come lifting his feet very high, witLiout withdrawing
time, and Nick talked to the stranger.      his eyes or changing countenance.
"Many Umioners in this deestrict ?" he in-  "Confounded  solemn owl !" muttered the
quired, with much simplicity.               colonel, putting  the pistol in  his  pocket.
" Heaps of 'em !' said Blackmer, not pleased " Damned if sich eyes as thin don't skier mej
with the part Nick was playing. " We'll clean Fell into a den o' nat'rals, I guess."  Then to
out the whole rebel consarn, soon."  41     Nick: "Come, you Secession copperhead 1 you
Alick liarker and his bushwliackers'II have tali, gaunt, thin, lathy, yeller sedesl snake !
a word to say bout that," retorted Nick.    Ain't you going' to offer a feller-critter some'at
At that iiistant, Archie paused behind the to drink?  I'm drier nor the Red Sea was, when
visitor. He held up a broad strip of paper, on Tharoh and his Hebrews went over on dry
which was written, in large letters : " Colonel land."
Blackmer."  Nick read it, nodded slightly, and  " You're quite a sensible Lincolner, by gra-
the writing disappeared. The youth resumed  cious!  Thought the Fed'rals never tasted
his walking and his mittering, and the moun- nothin' stronger nor water. Here's some'at in
taineer had now his ,subtle enemy at an advan- my canteen that'll work down into the toller of,
tage."         ,your legs, if you'll put your lips to it in airnest.
Wliars the w'omen-folks ?" asked Blackmer, 1 don't give it to you because I love ye; but
by-and-by, his audacity increasing.         I'd give it to an enemy on the field, by mighty,
" Whar honest folks ought to' be, I rather if I found him  wounded and thirsty, faintin',
'tuagine," answered Nick. " But we'll call 'em  moanin', and groaning' on the 'red ground.
right out o' bed if Squire Bramble waits to see Etnity should cease, in every brtvbrea csT
'em ! . I don't tiiik they couldn,t refuse nothin' witI wounds, and pain, and helplessness."
to a Lincoln Fed'ral. O Lord, no.!1          - 'The man of the gun and trap spoke seriously.
"I don't like your tone, mister!«" muttered His voice was subdued yet earnest. He passed
Blacekmer, scowling.                         his canteen to the man who had come to betray
" Which on 'cm '11 you have?  The old lady him. It was not an empty, vessel. The Con,
or tol gals ?"                              federate, gaged its contents by its weight, for
Kitty gently elbowed her mother.    Clari; it was heavy in his hand. He held it, looking
too, was now among the listeners ; but Kitty questioningly at the mountaineer.
only, of the three, held the key of the mystery.  "'Tisn't p'isoned," quoth Nick, in an injured
"Mrs. Kinimouth is the one I must see," an- tone, slightly frowning.  "Sich a thought is
swered Blackme  , keeping up  his assumed beneath a Root Digger Ingin."
character wonderfully well. "I'd thank ye to-  Impressed by something in Nick Whiffles'
be a trifle more respectful, stranger, partiek'larly voice, Blackmer unscrewed the top from  the
when speak in' of your betters, and females at canteen, and without a werd, dr:tnk deeply.
that. l's brung up to be polite, mister."   Nick received it from hirm when i had finished.
"If you hadn't toll me. I wouldn't believed his heavy draught, and followed his example.
it! Come to critikise you ngin, you do look   " No underhanded business for me !" mi-
like a well-bred critter, by mighty ! There was tered Nick. "I'll meet moy foe fairly and
a perlite cuss iin our frtily, and lie was hung, squarely, and face lo face.lie that, draws a
finally. No offence, strangere. That's no sign lead fust through the sights is tie lucekiest fel-
you'll be-hung.  No hurt'in mentioning' the ler; and God help 'totlher. That's msy style,

-N

E

(

Y
i)F    4      '
7      }
j
Y      k
i
t
'      3
7
_ i saw.
v
.
"£
'-fit
n
"v
r'                4
.;. '
5', ;
131  +
t:r
.  -
"-

and if you don't like it, stranger, you must go thought, was less mustc-ilh hian on that occasion,
further aid fare worse."                     It didn't ripple is it did then.
Blackmer was silent a f-w   moments., He      What could lie do ?  Nick Whiffles was in
looked it Nick pretty thoroughly.          thme way. lie sat there, listenting :mid watching.
That isn't so bad as it iniiuht be," lie an- 'lhe amorous colcl was disappointed and cm-
swered, slowly, and vith confusion. " 'Ihere's harrasssed. lie winked and  blinked at Mrs.
a good deal itt that, by   ." le let off a Kinmouth, hoping that she would, in some
strong word. ' You're more of a trump nor I manner, recall Iss features ; but thics signals,
thought yon was. I wisi  o 'd played a better aded to his dirty face, tattered emit, and red
hand, to begin with, for friend or foe, you hold  wig, only served to mystif atnd repel her.
some of the best cards."                        Nick WV htilies enjoyed: this seen.
The doughty colonel looked up, and saw a      "It's all right, maimtiin"  e sid, willing to
lady entering the room.                       increase thme mutual difficulty. "lie's is Fed'ral,
and come to see your hiusluanud."
CIIAPTER XXI.                   a'ndhen I         i htwaitd !" sail Mrs.-Kin-
KITTY HAS A POOR MEMORY.            mouth, coldly.   "If this man has no other
The lady who conei m, had a shapely figure, business, you had better show hin the door."
a graceful car. age, a handsome face ; hut she  "We've suet before f" protested Blackmer,
was totally unknownit to Blackmer. Impelled desperately.
by natural politeness, lie ars ' and bowed., It  "I am sorry for it !" responded the lad,
was a itmore courtly bow than lie should have dryly, curhing her full, red lips at his wretched
given i his character of Bart Bramble. After figure.
ie had thus acknowledged her presence, lie      "lfI could speak with you a minute in pri-
looked at her, quite at fault.                vate, ma'am," stammered tfme colonel.
" Where is the gentleman Who wished to see   " Spare me that honor!" retorted Mrs. Kin-
me ?" site asked, by no means favorably im- mouth, haughtilp6
pressed by the shabby appearance of the person  She went 'up stairs without waiting to hear
tifore her.                                  more.
" At your service," said the colonel, with    Blackmer was left in great perturbation. He
another genuflexion of the body, and heartily  was a victim of the doubtful and the ludicrous.
wishig Niak Whiffles at the other end of the Nick Whiffies, -perceiviig his bewilderment,
Confederacy.               I                  tapped his forehead with his fingers, and looking
" I don t quite remember you, sir ?" said Mrs, mysterious, said:
Kinmouthi.                                     "1A little tetchied in the head."
"I ixes your parding, ma'am, but I never     "Elh?" queried the other, eaferly.
had the pleasure of seem'you afore."           "Crazy as Bedlam.!' said Niek  "'Magines
" Whocsent for me ?                     - herself Mrs. Kimmouth, most the time."
Mrs. Kinmouth addressed this question to      "She does, does shte ?" exclaimed the officer,
Nick with a toss of the head.                 beginning to breathe more freely. "Who is
Nick pointed to his new acquaintance, and site ?"           -
said, briefly :                                 ".By  name, Sally Dowse; by profession,
1111'r .     ,-                       housekeeper," answered Nick,.prgitptly.  " It's
" There's a mistake," stammered the colonel, a thousand 'pities that sIte goes on its thit
as the- eyes if the lady flashed on him con- prison way. She's crazier sometiomesdnor she is
temptuously. "I wantedto see Mrs. Kinmouth." others. She's partickerly on her hobby-horse
"I amsi Mirs Kimmouth," site said.         to-night. The family allers humors lien in her
-  You ?" exclaimed Blackmer.              singular notions.  There's times when she's
"No other," -added Mrs. Kiminouth.         straight enough; and carries a smart hand with
The gallant colonel was confounded.    His the nigger help.
eyes ran  over 'the shapely figure again, and  " Any related to the family ?"
dwelt particularly on  the comely features.     "Mrs. Kiumitouth'sa owna ant ; and that's-why
There was certainly, in his view, a strong re-. they put up withi so much of her flambergaster.
semblance to Mrs. Kinmouth; but there was a    "Obsarved she acted queerly. Didn't know
discrepancy somewhere.   Ills Mrs. Kimmouth what to niake on't. Never was so dumbfounded
wa without doubt younger than this one. She in my life, sea'cely, knowii' Mrs. Kittiouthi to
-V-wa  prettier, too; for youth  has a strange be a good 'cal younger woman.    Well, that
beauty of its own. lie did not care to dispute puts it in another light. 'Bleeged to ye, old
her, neither dii fe desire to believe her. But boy ! Give us another tetch o' that canteen."
there was th eidlentical toss of the head. That  " Sartaim ! Drink hearty, hoss !"
he remeimbhered without effort. Perhaps it was  There was no need of this last injunction.
the hat that hash made her look younger and for the Confederate officer took a startiugly
neife charm ug.  The soft smoonlighst, also, long pull at Nick's flask.
might have favored her beauty. .ler voice, hie  "Mere shells, ain't they ?" quoth Nick, look-

(

; .
i
_
.


M
f
.3
, '
_ '  2
.
"a
4
, Y
}}.
Ft (;
4
. t
1
.i
k
.   {
;
''i
' ,
5' N'
}}py  yy
t f
t f
'4
S,
f
i,
j
,
"  .

ing( curiously at Blackmer's legs. "Guess if
you's to shake 'em, I allow I could hear the
whisky swash."
" No more holler nor your'n !" said Black-
mser, with a grin. "But I do, hold a right
sirt sprinklin' o' rum, mister."  The colonel
cast his eyes incidentally to the door, and be-
hel.1 a sight that thrilled and exhilarated him
more than the last installment of whisky. It
was the incomparable Kitty herself.
The Confederate for an instant forgot his dis-
iguise. He-nustered into service all his blan-
dishmerits. He smiled and bowed without the
least regard to Bart Bramble, or to that per-
Son'sn agged coat or filthy face.
Kitty was, at first, inclined to laugh at this
ridiculous pantomime, but she governed her-
seilf, put on a dramatic expression, made an un-
certain step forward, and stared at the man
with the greatest pertinacity.
" Mrs. Kinmouth, I au delighted !"- said the
colonel, in a low tone.
" I cannot recall your features,' my good
man," replied Kitty, gravely.
"No wonder!" thought Blackmer, remem-
bering how lie was disguised.   My mother
wouldn't know inc."
'- Your face is-is-"
" Yes," said 'Blackmer, thinking she was con-
ing at it.
"Dirty !" added Kitty, maintaining her se-
rionsuess wonderfully.
The colonel's hope fell like the stick of an
exploded rocket.
Nick Whiffle grinned a humorous grin that
stretched his comical mouth to' its greatest
width.
Blackmer swore an inaudible oath. He se.-
cretly cursed disguises and situations. Here
was a woman whom    he wanted to adore, but
could appear to her only as a species of human
swine. The question was, how could he reveal
himself to her, without making the same reve-
lation to Nick, with whom his secret would be
less safe. That his Mrs. Kinmouth was quiz.
zing him, he could not doubt.
" If you please, I will send for some water,"
said Kittlf.
"I won't trouble you, ma'am," answered
Blackmer, quite at his wits' en 1. " Water don't
agree i'itli en, either for external or internal
use."
"'Twould make a prison difflkilty with his
stomach, if he should, by any accident, git wa-
ter into't," remarked Nick, squinting cunning -
ly at Kitty., "But he'll put hisself outside a
pint o' whisky quicker'n a telegraph. He's the
condemnudest critter on that as ever I see, by
mighty ! Them legs o' his'n isn't nothin' but
shells, ra'am, They're -holler as coffins inside,
and when he tips up a canteen, the old Bourbon
runs right into 'ei. There isn't no narrer in
his bones."

Ridicule was the colonel's vulnerable point.
His old Adam   broke out against Nick. He
whipped out his revolver again, and on this oe-
casion he cocked it. The sharp click terrified
the girl, but the mountaineer was not in the
least intimidated.
" Put it up," quoth Nick. " You'll skeer the
lady. °Women folks don't like gunpowder over
and above well. If you should fire, you'd never
pull trigger ag'in. You'd fall in your'tracks,
pierced by a bullet that isn't fur off." -
Kitty involuntarily followed the covert direc-
tion of Nick's eyes, and saw Archie with his
rifle, aiming at Blackmer. The latter also turn-
ed, and with a shudder, perceived the fixed and
deadly tube covering heis heart. With-a smother-
ed imprecation, lie put back his revolver ; while
Archie Roe slowly lowered his-weapon.
" A singular fool !" he thought, and he could
not refrain  from  expressing  the 'thought.
" There's method in that young man's mad-
ness," he said, frowning. "Are there'any more
fools and lunatics in this house ?" Then, think-
ing of his divinity, and what politeness requir
ed, he added: "1 beg your parding, Mrs. Kin-
mouth. I'in sometimes irritable. I'm afeard
you don't know me ? Remember the white
plume, ma'am."
Kitty shook her head, in utter innocence of
what lie was talking about.
''What 'does this man mean, and why is he
here ?" asked Kitty of Nick. "lHe has evi-
dently escaped from  some asylum. I think
you had better put some restraint upon him,
for he is obviously unfit to be at large."
"The letter !" whispered Blackmer, edging up
to Kitty.
"'Don't let him come any nearer, Mr. Swing-
foot !" she exclaimed, in affected terror.
" The cabin in the wood !" added the colonel,
in the same sibillant manner.
" Do take hold of him !" persisted Kitty -
Nick seized him by the skirt of his ragged.
coat, and drew him back,
"4 You'd better watch him ti!l morning," she
added. " If he offers t: go, shoot him through
the head."
There was nothing quizzical in her last in-
junction ; it was earnest ; it was serious. The
disguised man felt it to be so, and began to re-
alize that his position was perilous. But there
was something in reserve to sustain him. The
simple discharge of his pistol would'eall a score
of men to his aid. . He abandoned himself to
the course of events. He sat down quietly, put
his feet on the back of a chair, relapsed fully
into his ruffianly character, leered at Nick, and
said, with admirable nonchalance
" Give us a chaw, Secesh !"
Kitty shrugged her shoulders, and disap-
peared.   When Blackmer glanced that way
agan, the pretty girlish face was not there.

i

MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.

61

CHAPTER XXII.                  ed to send him to me for that purpose. I am
THE SIGNAL.                 jealous of our mother."
"Well ?" said Clari, when Kitty came back.  "You are younger and handsomer than
"Matters are curiously mixed up now, I should mother, and she only wishes to dazzle. She has
think. I heard all you said down there, and so power, and likes, to show it. You know she
has Mrs. Kinmouth. I should say this house is can be charming."
pretty well stirred up. So that is your colonel  "That is what troubles me. I cannot use
i I disguise ?"                             my eyes as she can. She is so adroit! She
It will be seen that Kitty had made a confi- would draw him to her to Make him a rebel, if
dlnt of her sister.                        for no other purpose. Her conduct frightens
Yes," said Kitty.  "He came to betray, me. This dreadful war brings disunion and
and is betrayed."                           ruin to our household. 'Ihe house is divided
i Did you betray him ?"                   against itself. Party spirit is as bitter and ran-
" No. It was A rchie Roe."                corous as death. We shall soon be -separated ;
Kitty looked down.                        and this spot, which was once the abode of
"' Archie Roe ?".                         peace and happiness, will be charred by'"the
Kitty nodded, but did not raise her eyes from fires of the incendiary torch."
the carpet.                                   They listened, and heard Mrs. Kinmouth'
His pursuit is bugs," mused Clari. " I am  walking to and fro u iher chamber.  They
surprised. I don't know what to think of this joined hands, and waited in silence the develop-
youth. How can lie be mad, and act sanely ?"  meat of events.
"'He has lucid intervals," said Kitty, blush-  It was one o'clock. The night was quiet.
ing..                                       They heard no sound but the mellow murmur
What are you blushing for ?" asked Clari, of the rivor. The sky was obscured by clouds
steadily.                                   that drifted over it continuously, like columns
"I didn't blush. It was the red glare of that of smoke.  If they looked from  the window,
lamp."                                      they saw nothing but a dim curtain let down
"Has he ever been lucid enough to-"   -   from  the heavens. Their lamp they had ex-
Clari stopped.                            tinguished long ago, so as to give'no mark to a
"To what?"                                concealed foe.
" To nothing."                              Matters did not change much. in the lower
" I guess not," said Kitty.               part of the dwelling. Blackmer and Nick had
Both were silent a moment.               ceased to talk. Tihe colonel's last endeavor at
" I wish you'd have that rent in the wall re- conversation had proved a dead failure.  lie
paired, where you hid your man," added Kitty. was moody, and Nice curt. Max breathed with
It was now Clari's turn to blush.         the regular respiration of a sleeper. His stal-
"Mv man ! You are as full of venom as a wart figure, with all its perfection of' myscl.
u-wrey-ome now, 'what is Mother Kinmouth and form, rested quietly.
going to do ?"-.                              The lamp burned out.    Occasionally some
"I cannot tell you what she'will do, but I faint beams of moonlight flickered in at the .
know what she has done," replied Kitty, thought- windows. Blackmer's eyes wandered magneti-
fully. " She has fallen im love with your fugi- ally to a certain corner of the room. He
tive. She has lost her cat's-paw, and she is fancied he saw something there--a dark object
miserable to-nighty 0 Clari, what can we do?" that did not stir. le would have concluded
Let things take their course. Nick Whif- that it was a house-dog, had hue not seen the
flesh is lirepared ; Mountain Max is prepared ; burnished mountings of a rifle shining in the
and father is sufficiently in the secret not to be darkness. The dark object was Archie Roe.
taken by surprise. I tremble at the situation. The colonel wondered if lie were asleep, and
There will be a struggle, and lives will be lost. sometimes imagined that. he saw tiro eyes
If the mountaineer should not have men gleaming upon him.
enough !. Or if they should ' not come at the  Two o'clock approached : it came. The dis-
right moment!".                   -         guised rebel knew that Aliek Iirker, with fif-
Clari shivered.                           teen or twenty men should be withmi hearing,
" I have thought of that. I am thinking of ready to rush into the house at a tpreconcerted
it yet,' sighed Kitty.                      signal. But thmigs were different from' what
"This disguised man below Is armed ; and a he had anticipated. At lat hour he had sup-
single shot, you know ?"                    posed that the inmates of the house would be
Clari sighed more profoundly than the other. wrapped in profoundest slumber; that Nick
"A single shot would, make you miserable, Whiffles and the handsome giant would be com-
for it might kill Bosworth. Own that you love fortably in bed, dwelling among dreams and
him."                                       their idle creations. It was not so. Those he
"I do! " confessed Clari, in'a suppressed most dreaded were near him-one wide awake
voice. "Whny should I deny it ? Heaven seem- in his chair ; the other, perhaps sleeping, per-

co      MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.

?t

.,I

b

,
i
3
't
/'{.  1
t'.
s,
;  f
,l

'   e

F:   Iv


I} ,
k4
e
i
{
i
'
.y

MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON TIIE BORDER.

.62           MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK          WUIFFLES ON THE BORDER.
baps watching.   This was a state of things without any signal.     Put a signal had been
that he Could not understand.    lie grew dis- agreed upon, and they were waiting for it.
trustful. lie doubted .whether this status was   Nick appeared to d-se oil again. Mountain
the effect of aceidenti. It seemed to hita that Max turned uponlois side, tossed his limbs,
these moen Were in expectation of something. and breathed inIire quietly. The dark object
Many times he glanced at the dim athee of Nick ; in the corner 4id not change. There seemed
many times he coitemiplated, with secret ap- no remedy for Blaclmiers      eiinarraissiuents.
rluehension, the quiet forun of Mountain Max. The night hi ung on his hanuids heavily. He
kis hand stole towai his revolver, and wanted  would have exchanged pl amCes within most any
to give the signal (which was the discharge of wretch that he knew of. 'The hurting misery
one e ilinder), but shrank fromuui making the ex- of suspelsei bcreied.  isi Inimgia i Ion went
Pirinsdnlt.                                   to wosig with a yill it p1 ty cI horrible tricks
Nick dosed ; at leas', he appe trod to, after a with hin. Perspiration broke from his brow,
time. Blaciconier thought lie woiuld get up and  and streamed dlown his thee. lie had heard of
walk softly to the nearest window. le arose, the cunning of Nick Whifies, and   ow he had
but wit h the first creak hf his boots, Nick's a proof of it. le wished soinebody would do
eyes flew open. He seized his rifle, then pre- something.   If Nick's athletic jiu1il would
tending to discover the cause   if his alarm, spring ip  nd assume a hostile attitude, he
said : ,                                       thought it would be a relief to hm.    If the
" Oh, it's you, is it, Bramble ?  S&amp;t down, mad boy, hiing in the dars corner, would level
Bramble. "laake -vurself to huIIn, Bramble. his rifle at lhiu again ; or if Nick would come
You're welcome, as the spider said to the fly  at liinn, to give him the requ:site incentive to
whet it fly'w into his web."                 , desperate action, he would be glad. le was
"I'1 so:i'at cruinped," faltered Blackmer. ready to hail almost any uteri uption to break
" Fact is, I a 'tiusel to settini' i ch:irs. Allers the painful Monotony. lIe ws becoming so-
been in the habit o' duipimi' ri;h t down on the  flurried, that he could not endure it much
.ground, or on the'lloor. Must stretch my legs longer. 'the crisis of msenutal excitement was
a little, any way."                            cIIiung. It campe. le spuraing to his feet, up-
"Stretch 'em, but stretch 'em kider keer- set his chair, eried out, in ttc excess of lhas ner-
ful, strimgr. Too i much niss 'tI ima'e a cussed  vousness, and fired his pistol ; ten, with a
little diflikilty aween us! Did you ever have  strong instinct of self-pre'servation, fell afit to
any diffiki ties, my Felral hBossth' the floor. As he was filling, a boIullet froi
"Don't know    as I take your nicanin'," an- Archibald's rifle struck off his wig, antd made
swered BIiekemr, quakmin  with apprehension. a slight furrow along his skull. le was some-
"Can't swear ttaat you do, by iglity !" s:iil  what stunned, and lay still.
Nick, anxious to .increase .the prti:ition of  " Good !"  exelaiuiied  Nick.  " Retribution
the Confeder ie. -"If you aint raytier car. follows fast."
eumspect, stnneting may h  fapten,  allow."  Mountami  Max was on lhis feet in an ilsta C
" I'm lost!" thought Blackmer. "This muan   Simultaneously doi's and widows wre assail.
is suspicious of iie. If I give the signal, he ed ; doors gave wiy, wind ws werc shattered.
will shoot ume."                               Meu tumble.t hu.
He roturne'd to his chair and sat lown again.  Nick Whifies gave awar-wlonp; a tremen-
" Say,.miister, where's Kitimouth ?" lie asked, dous one, that gusshid out trough tie broken
presently.                                     panes like the shrill wistle of a locomotive.
" Abed and asleep!' replliel Nick, gruffly.  It was answered b,, responsive yells that made
" Want to see himu," added Bmlacmer, un- every rafter slmg. Now there was work to do.
easily.                                        Nick WhIi!es was suddeni fired with the con-
"Be quiet!   How can I sleep if you keep centrated energies of halta-dozen men.      le
talking' ?"-                                   flew at the bushwhackers      'l'he pupil was
"Look here, mister, I should like a bet]," worthy of tlhe taster.      Clubbimg   his rifle,,
persisted the colonel, growing every minute Bosworth hurried to meet the iicoitng foe,
more nervous.                                  who found unexpectedh resistance. Two men
"Can't give ye no bed, but can 'commodatc fell, and tleure was a moment tary hesitation.
ye to a floor. Flip right down, ,if you'd like  Archibald Roe was ntlongeir ii the dark
to. Dou't stun' on cereitmnv 'tmong friends."  corher. His little rifle erneked with wonderful-
Nick drew a revolver from some hart of his pertinacity ; one shot following another with
person, cocked it, laid it across his knees, and incredible rapidity. --
settled back in his chair, as if for a snooze.   The front miund rear of the dwellimg were as-
These proceedings were not at all reassurmig. -sailed it the same tite, ani Arehie, by his con-
The roan was in a qiutndamiry.  Ie sat still and tinuois firing, held those iu the rear iml check'
tried to resign hiunself to tihe situation.  He Blackmer, seeing how matters were goinhg, be.
wished over tuh over, ui1uht list hietstishwhack- gan to fire at the yout h ; butt fortunately his
ers would spring through doors and windows hand was too unsteady' to aduit of ii deadly

,um. The bullets flew around hin but they
Aid notliht hini  Kitty was praymng for him
above.   Nholy thought Kitty wms mrayiug for
hins, for Clari was t.htlikiuug of Bosworth, aml
so was Mrs. Kinumtmsth, while Nick wis think-
itug of tse flag ui the Revolution, and of his
Kimimouth, started from brief repose by the.
sudden dili, rani.iint the danger bravelyrc-
inemberinig Abe Harker and the proceedings
of tileptvioms tight.
Just then that' louh-yell of the mountaineers
shook the roof of ilie Bluff house, tid amaze1l
all its 1i:nats.  'he entering bushiwhtekers
felt theutselves seized and toti backward, or
beaten dowi with blows, or wounded behind ;
and there was consternati6 among them    An
car-splitting shout of "Nick Whiffles anti the
Union !" aros', and the conflict was soot over
The bushwhiaekrs either ran, sank down woumd
ed, or were c:a ttu'etl ; or, at least. Alick HMirkier,
lIugh Brainble, and Colonel Blackuser were
among the hitter.
It is impossible to describe the setsatiotts of
Mrs., Kinmouuutlh duuuing the short and decisive
struggle   Site was a womni of firttmss. -Slit
had resolved to abide the results, whatever
they might be, Site lid not mean to be in-
truded upoin;i she locked her loor, and in her
resolute dhete'miuiniatioun to adhere to her pur-
lose, wheeled e'tmiis against it. She heard the
reverberatinn of the pi-tol-shots; she heard hhle
imnmediatelv following commotion; sh   huear t
menacing shisuts ; site heard blows, well laid
on ; she he:il I the startling yells of the iounit-
taiieers, the crack, cract, crack of Archie's
little gus, the onset that etsued, and thes the
s   That stillness wasnp-
alling. T'hat iatiit ias either living or dead.
If he 'were living, it was well ; if lie'were dead,
she had  illedii hnt. She threw herself ipon
her bed, which her fair heal had not touched
that night, covered   her face, and was hot,
feverish, amid iutnhap;.y.
CHAPTER XXIIT.
Tmui 'iWo uns KuNM)UTns.
By-anti-by Kitty knockel at her mother's
door. Mrs.~Kimttouth asked, faintly:
" Who is there ?'
"It is tie," said Kitty.    "I am   terribly
frightened ! Let uae iii."
".What has hiappeied ?" asked   Mrs. Kin-
mouth, arising.
"4Thre has been fighting below, and several
persons are kill-h,"   answered  Kitty.   Her
mother wheeled the barricade of chairs from
the door, mtt] opening it, let in Kitty.
" Is lie Iilled'.' asked Mrs. Kinsmouthl hiur-
riedly.                                     .
" Is who killed ?' sail Kitty.
" Kinmiiosut.h,'' t'siiodied hter mother, briefly
but she was thinking of Bosworth.      -

"Not dead, but wounded," answered, Kitty.
"Clari is with  itim. 'he bushwhackers made
an asault. 'lhey burst ii it the windows and
doors. Bosavorth, ui Mr. Swingfoot, Archi-
bald Roe, and lather, fought hiet."
"I heard a steadyy firig, continued Mrs,
Kinmouth, excitedly.  "Were either of our
guests injured '
"Bosworth was shot tihrosglt the-."
"'lhe heart " gasped Mrs. Kiuniouth, shiver-
inug fromn temid to hoot.
Kitty hooked mt her mother sharply, and be-
gan the sentence again, and miished it.
" Btsworth was shot through the arm with
a buck-shot. Swiugfoot and Archie are un-
harmed."
"Away with your hypocrisy, Kitty ! Talk
no more of Swingfoot ; eall him  by his name.
Call him Nick Wtiflls.    am tird of false-
hood. You have put two deceptions upon me
within twenty-four hours."
They seem not to have been deceptions,"
said the girl, slowly. " They were not decep-
tions to injure people. We deceive sometimes
for good. sometimes for evil. But I hate lies,
whether acieI, told, or implied.'
You were once a sweet little girl,''respond-
ed  ert oher',in a suppressed voice, " but yon
are fast becoming dreadful. I ami   afraid of
Syou. tYou have ripened too suddenly. I don't
understami it."
"As well as I unJerstand you, tmothier. We
are both unknown to each other, I think.
thoughh mother and, diaughter by relationship,
we tur out strangers by nature, You have
become a plotter of treason, and he -dupe of
rebels ; while I amts for the Union, and Liberty,
and tlie'wole constitution of Federal stars that
adorn the national flag. \So you see that we are
about as far apart is we emn be."
Mrs. Kiinmsuth sighed, and shook her head
sadly. '
" Come, let us go down and see more of the
beauties of secession. We have had one lessen,
vou know?'?
Mrs. Kinmouth followed her daughter down
stairs, a subject of :anything buteualun thoughts.
She was surprised. to find the lower part of the
house thronged with- strange ftes ;awn, long-
bearded faces. She supposed, at first, that they
were bushwhackers, but a second look dis-
credited the supposition. They were mountain-
men, of the Nick Vhiiffles' type. Was their
presence, at a uilIo  so eritieml, the result o.
ebtance ? It was difficult to think so.- The web
of circumstances wias closing closely about her.
She saw thet carrying outsome bIdies. The
light casually reveIed their ghastly visages,
which startled her. She was shocked at the
spectacle of death  Site msked herself if those
met would not have been living if- the letter
l;tnd not been sent.
The mountaineers male way for Kitty, who,

t,
';;
t

5
l
r
f  1
E
,1
.
Y

:a
,
;

iAll
I
T py       i
f' t   f
t:
Y
y 4
F
l     " l

t
,


r                                                                                                                                        r
64           MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.
with her mother, approached a central group, I    Mrs. Kinmouth, is it possible you do not re'
composed of the more important figures in the member einc" he asked, as alast resource.
picture. In charge of some sturdy fellows were  ' It is very possible indeed," answered Kitty.                                     -
the three prisoners. . Mrs. Kinmouth noticed   Mrs, Kinmouth, thinking herself addressed,                             _n_-_~-
them at once. She could not but remember answered:
her last interview with Aliek Harker. That in-  "I am sure I never saw you till to-night."                                 -
terview had left no favorable impression on her  iI did not speak to you," said Blackmer,
mind. The more she thought of it, the less she enetly, glancing at- the latter. "4I spoke to   i1                        d        r
liked him. The swarthy villain was glad to see Mrs. Kinmouth."  He bowed to Kitty.
her. Through her influence he hoped to escape.  "I am Mrs. Kinmouth,"said Mrs. Kinmouth.
If She reefused to save -hima, he resolved to com-  You must perceive, madam"-he continued
pel her to It by his knowledge of her complicity to address the daughter instead of the mother---
with the Secessionists, and especially with this"that I am not here in my true character ?"
partfeular rail, which had resulted in his cap-  "There are no true characters here, I think !*
ture. His courage increased at sight of the replied Kitty, sarcastically.
rebel laly. He watched her with the utmost      " If you have anything to say to Mrs. Kin-
interest. f th  mmouth, say it to me," interposed her mother,
Some of'the mountaineers had been talking   anxiously.
of ropes arid hanging, and his blood had grown  "Allow me to proceed !"'entreated the colonel,
somewhat thick. It began to flow again. Black- who.felt that every moment was of importance.
mer grew equally hopeful; for he believed he "You saw ame last night?" ie added, address-
could now make himself known to the charm- ing Kitty.
ing bearer of the letter. The coming of 'the    " I tell you, sir, you are laboring under a sin-
ladies brought him inexpressible relief. He gular delusion," persisted Mrs. Kinrsouh, whose
made gestures to attract Kitty's notice ; she now began to fear that some compromising se-
did not .appear to comprehend him.- He man- cret might transpire.
aged to get near her, but his guards pushed him  " If I am laboring under a mistake, I choose
roughly back.   Several of the mountaineers to persist .in it," said Blackmer, briefly.I4
cried out "Hang 'em! String 'em up! They        Madarh," he Went on, looking earnestly at
hung our men. Let 'em see how they like it."  Kitty, "if I could but speak a few words ine                    1
Others responded:                            .your ear, only, you would understand my posi-"                                                    -
"That's so ! That's justice ! Bushwhackers tion, and be able to assure these men that I am                    1
ain't soldiers, nohow."                      not what I seem."'II
We are soldiers," said Harkel', "and we     "Whoever you are," cried Mrs. Kinmouth,
want to be treated like prisoners of war."   "let me warn you to hruderne I                                                                        -                 -
&amp;ldiers don't attack private dwellings, and  "Miss Dowse -."                                                          -
rob and murder quiet citizens," said Bosworth.  "Miss  Dowse !" repented Mrs. Kinmouth,                              -9
No use. to talk to hrima!" growled Hugh   quite bewildered.  "I am   not Miss Dowse !                 1jI
Bramble.    He's the chap we chased last night, This girl is my daughter Kitty. The uidars;' '
We'd got him, if it h-idn't b-en for lier."  He  first your own, has been encouraged. If you
pointed to Clari, who, having bound up her   are the person I begin to think you are, you
father'- wounds, was now a quiet spectator. Have been hoaxed."                                                    i
"She was plucky ; damned if she wasn't !"      Mr. Kinmouth wasdnot near enough to hear
" No hianigin' I" said Nick Whiies. " Hang  this conversation, and it was carried on with
in's are for sheriffs and jail-yards. We all want more boldness on the part of Mrs. Kinmouth,
to hi shot when we go under, boys. Let us do  than it otherwise would have been. The man
as we'd be done bry."                        in disguise looked dubiously from mother to
"Shiootin' is too good for traitors," said 'u daughter. There was certainly a strong re-
}Durly follow, with a heavy California l'ifle. semblance. He was .drifting toward the truth.
"'Traitors sin ag'iist people of every country ; He recalled, sentence by sentence, his descrip-
because Ameriky is a place o' refuge for the tion of the Kinmouth family. He remembered
oppressed of the whole world."               that he had represented Kitty as the charming
Yog are right," quoth Nick.  "Treason is cat's-paw of her charinriig smoother; that he had
a p'isoi sin. It carries death to a thousand described her as a creature of impulse, weak
firesides; mourniu', also ; poverty, likewise. and fickle. Even in that monent of danger,____
o Lord, yes !"                               he realized that lie had made hihiself ridiculous.
Nick sighed profoundly.            'Ie turned to Alick Harki'er, and asked .                                                             ~
Blackmer stood, trembling and fearful. le   "Which is Mrs. Kiiniouth?"                                                                     -~.
did not fancy the turn the -conversation had    " That one," said Alick, pointing  to the-
taken. The character of Bart 'Bramble might mother.    "Your own eyes ought to tell you
do for a night ; but he ebuld not afford to die that:"
fost it. He besought Kitty with isis eyes, but  'Kitty could see thre colonel's face reddening -
shre was insensible to ihis silent appeals.  thorough the stratums of dirt. He was angry,

r3

--
-.
-  i/ 2
~_    -
~ = -~ m ~ ~ -


f Il

r   '           1
,iY.: r
[rj             '
tE  I
3 'F
99
1 .      1(   I
t'TT ' f
% Y
1'   fi
t       1
l      t
}}}{{i
i
i
'         i
'
iI
i
ii1
t
,
t
1
,'+

I have been trifled with and betrayed !" he
muttered.  "Madam," he looked at Mrs. Kin-
mouth, "you    have played a double game.
-There has been damnable treacl ery."
The rebel lady was on delicate ground.
There was daiiger of an immediate expose of
ier conduct. There was need of skilful tactics
and rapid movement. She now knew that the
tattered nan was Colonel Blackmer, and that
it was necessary that she should speak to him.
-Stand away, brave fellow!" she said, touch-
ing one of the imountait-nen on the shoulder.
lie fell lack, and she, passed him  and ap-
proachel the colonel. No one interrupted her.
tier dignified manner forced respect and immu-
nis.y from interference.  She said to Blackmer,
in a whisper
" Trust me, and I will save you.  Don't be-'
tray me ! Call we a vile Lincoluite, and I'll re-
tort in character."
hope arose from the dead ashes of his de-
spair.  He recollected what this woman had
done, first and list, and his belie f in her began
to return. Possibly it was the false Kitty who
had u rought the mischief. He resolved to hate
her from that moment, and to act up to the
very spitiit of-Mrs. Kinmouth's instructions.
As sie was turning from him,-he commenced
the hyjocritical lesson.
Le. ve me, woman !" lie exclaimed.  " Do
not ost 'your venom in my ear. Taunts do not
heooie your sex, though they may befit your
detestable cause."
She gave him a grateful and commendatory
look-a look, the meaning of"which flashed on
1 in like lightning.  He thought he could feel
the firm ground under his feet again.
t       Nick mnd Mix stood quietly near. Both were
willing that the lady should save herself from
the shame and disgrace of a denoucment.  For
the sake of her daughters, they hoped she
would find some avenue of escape. Bosworth
beheld her with emotions of tender compassion.
She had flattered him with her preference, and
she stood in an interesting relation to Clari.lie
admired her spirit and courage ; and, looking
at her alit she had whispered to Blackmer,
- -nhd lie had retorted, he perceived, with inward
satisfaction, that she had proved equal to the
ccnsion.
Nick smiled knowingly, and Kitty said to her-
self:
" I will save mother !"
CHAPTER XXIV.
NO!
Kitty Kinmoutli, although profoundly regret-
ting hor mother's wily policy, was yet extreme-
ly anxious to shield her from its consequences.
11er desire to punish.Blackmner for his audacity
and impertinence had hurried her further than
was entirely prudent ; -but Mrs. Kinmouth's
skill, exhibited at the last moment, had put a

hopeful aspect on the affair. Knowing well
that Iher mother would need assistance, Kitty
followed her to her room.
" Which of you is it ?" that lady asked, turn-
ing sharply to her daughter.
" Wiuch of us is what ?" queried the girl,
with more force than grammatical accuracy.
"In love with Bosworth I" said Mrs. Kin-
mouth.
" You, I think," answered Kitty, naively..
" I did not mean that," retorted her mother,
with considerable embarrassment.  "I ieant
you and Clari."
" Clara or me !" repeated Kitty.
" But I have'eyes," resumed Mrs. Kinmouth,
thoughtfully.  "-Why do I ask questions?  I
know it is-Clan, for. I have watched her."
" Granting it to be Clari, what then ?"
" I am in a perilous position," continued the
lady, speaking with unusual seriousness. "Those
three men below must not be harmed-they
must escape."
"I see that they must. If they do not, at
the last moment they will -betray you.  Did
you observe the villain Harker?  His counte-
nance kindled at sight of you.. His native au-
dacity came back. He expects you to extri-
cate him from his present peril," replied- the
girl, with equal earnestness.
Mrs. Kinmouth involuntarily recalled her
nocturnal interview with Harker at the hollow
tree.  His insolence had shocked her.  The
more she thought of it, the more her pride was
wounded. She was mortified to think that such
men should be numbered among her friends.
11er eyes were beginning to see matters more
clearly.
" There is not much time to lose," she added,
" for the mountaineers are now deliberating,
and the fate of the prisoners will soon be de-
cided. The captors are likely to be unanimous
in their views."
4 Remember, mother, how the Secessionists
of the Alick Harker stamp have outraged every
sense of justice, and put Union men to death,"
interp 'sed Kitty. "Recollect what happened
here last night!"
"It was frightful !" said Mrs. Kinmouth, with
a little shiver.  "If the mouttain-men have
their way, those three persons will be shot or
hanged. We must produce delay, and trust to
circumstances. The man called Mountain Max
must be influenced. Clari can do that."
" Yes," responded Kitty, "Clari can do that
-or you either, mother. But Clari is the one,
I should think she night wind him round.her
finger, Clari is so bewitching !"
. Mrs. Kiumouth colored, and breathed hur-
riediv.
"if Clari can manage to make delay, and get
the mea up somewhere in the house, guarded
by one or two of Nick's fellows, I believe we
can find means to get them  clear.  Let them

,-L:z
I !F-F

MOUNTAIN MANX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.

67

4
. 1


AS            MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.
tie them hanid , and foot, if they choos.', and  " I have no wish to save these villains," said
we'll findi  way to liberate them, if there is any  Bosworth, quietly. "Do you desire me to not
running in women."                            contrary to imy eonivictom's'?
Mrs.. Kinmitouthi kissed  her daughter, and  "I wish you to delay the execution of the
said :                                        prisoners till morning, at least," resumed Clari.
"Good Puss!1 brave Puss I   Here is Clam i.   " I could not do it if I would, and I would
Let iher' fly at Bosworth as soon is you can.; not if I could " answered Bosworth, in a calm
but explain to her as little is may be."   and unimpasioned pmanner..
The last words were said in a whisper ; but   Claris face flushed seimewhat. She looked at
Clari heard them, and said :                  him. -leer glance said :
" want noi explamnationis. I have -comae to " So you have forgotten that you lately
ask if I can ho anything to aid yin. I think I sought mercy at iy hands, and that I gave
know, Me other Kiniimouth, what troubles you. it."
We won't speak of the p)ast. I will prove that  Bosworth understood it thus. Ills tanned
I love 'omu."                                cheeks reddened perceptilily.
" I thank von, Clari," murmured th. lady,    " 1 mope you will nut misconstrue my feel.
with an involuntary start.      -            ings, Miss Kinmuouth," he hastene to say.
" Are the in earnest below ?" asked Kitty.  " You saved my life but recently. If yvu need-
" Fearfully in earnest !" amswered Clar. ed mine to save yours. it would iot Le denied.'
"They say that the blood of murdered Union-.    " Words, Mr Bosworth," retorted Clari, do.
isallis for retaliation  There are stern faees in'g some violencec to her own feeling s, "cost
aroumwi the prisoners."                       less than  eftions. 1 have always found them
"How looks Bosworth ?" continued Kitty.    Clieat."                            '
" Sternest of all," answered her sister.      "1 cannot think your heart sail Ithat," he re-
"A mii Nick W'liffles ?"                   plied. " You have come to plead ma euse, and
" Calim- land silent.  The decision is death, you mean to'plead it well. ~ But time bushvhack.
anl the present debate is the manner-wlether ers will die."-
by lemi l or cord."                               You are less noble than I thought yo , if'
"Go diown, Clari,"   said 'Mrs. Kinmoutm, you are ctuted by feelings of revenge," ob.
firm ly.  'Go down a a:d try Bosworth.  Per- served Ciri, t ine to her object
suamde hinui to put off matters till morning. You  " If I were the only person iijnred by Alielt
can etd it-!"                                 Iiarkm'r and his crew,.I would gladly overlook
"I greatly doubt it," faltered Clari, flushing it, to do you a hinthmiess l;but the good of the
to the 'oreheml.                 ,           community require'ss Ihat such mornul moumsl rs
Go and try!" cried Kitty, earnestly, push- should be summarily dealt with. Recall th o
ingher frmi time ruomom..  ~- shattered window, the imoused cord, and your
"I will" retuinied Clari, resolutely. " I will father 1"
do Imy utimmost fdr mercy amd dely.  I wish I  Clari secretly  owned the justness -of his
was certain of success  Comae. Kitty, you must words and the hopelessness of her c:use.
be near  te. You shall see that I nu Ifaithful  " One of time prisoners is mu Confeumrte colo-
to mmubier Kimmouth."                    nel," she replied. 'I-Ie certainly umumt be held
Clari vnt diwi stairs, and steadily to her as a prisoner of war."
work ; whihe Kitty followed, for moral supolhuirt.  " lie came among us in disguise. We have
Time remarks that greete I her' enas, whenma shie no right to know that he is a Comnfdedrate fi.
entered lime room, were not emicouragimg for lieu' eer.  We might, without stmainmimg matters
mis5ion.. Nick's men were about equally di-Ij mcmh, call hinmu al". Our Iails wishi to treat
vidaeid on the qumestumni of- hemp and rifle-balls. Ihim  as a buishwheiker.- Ath time tuic of his,
The extreme penalty was a foregone conclu- capture-he was nlut engaged iin regular wair,.
sion.                                         fare."
Clari approached Bosworth, who stool a, lit " I         lperceivethat I am an unwelcome suitor,"
the at'pri frosi time others; leaning agaitust the rejoined Clari, coldly.
wall, with his arius fouled, mutpon his chest, and1l  ' Do not say so," answerel Bosworth, much
his eves casti dwniward. Hearing the mrustle of pained. " You forgieit that it is not minme to dis-
;her d lss. lie looked up, aiml uiessel lher pur- pose of the lives of these ptersinm. Nick Whif-
p      lose..is ep'ressiomn was tirmm to rigihmmess.  fl's and the majority rule. The furnmer, you
Mr. Riswviorth," she s:aidh. ,in a low tone, "I observe, remiajms sileuut, nmi'' ihe will do the pris-
have come to ask mnerny for these nien"      owners the mercy to tive thm anpowder anid lead,
"1I wish, Miss Kiumimouih," reliml the mounm- insteal of twisted lenmi. Feur yuiiur sake, Miss
taimeer, graver, " th at yon had asked some  Kinmouthi" (he spoke in a smhumlhned tone), "I
;himg within m y contmirol."               wold II comnpromse everything bu1t may cnivic.
" You have iifluenuce over Ile mins of these tinmms of right; imi shoal1  I do that.,~I should
lmrdy mhouintainieers.  Exert it to save life," re- scarcely expect to wii that respect frmmam you
turned Clari, in ia gentle voice. '    '     which is dearer to me man ny other comsideraR

I

MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.
tion. These hardy and honest fellows " (he we owe it to mankind to extarminate sicih
glanced at the mountaineers, who were standing They want to trig the wheels o' this Gover'ment.
in groups), "condemn the men, not I. Look at and throw the whoje'eonsarai out o' gear. But
them, and see if :n appeal to their compassion we mean to keep the machinery runnin', by
will do any good.",                        mighty !   It's no use talkin', little woman.
"No more than to you," said Clan, with Alick Harker and IIugh Bramble, so called,
affected displeasure.                       have got to go under, and no mistake. Don't
" No*, indeed, you do me injustice !" ex- ye hear my lads talkin'? Ain't they in airnest?
claimed Bosworth, with a melancholy smile  Do the faces you see around ye look good.
and a protesting shake'of the head.        natured and arn'able ? 'Now, what you goin' to
Kitty, who had heard all, and wished to push do with 'ei ? Can you coax 'em and wieedle
poor Max to desperation, pulled Clari by the 'em? I reckon not; although you could do it,
skirt, and said, loudly enough for him to hear:  if any live female could. So that's the long
"Come away, Clari! This man has forgotten and the short on't. The thing's fixed and done.
the hole in the wall !"                    Themr  p'ison, bushwhackin' Coifederators'Il
Max gasped for breath, and knew not what to never hang loyal men ng'in. I should be a,
say. lie would rather have faced a Confeder- traitor and a villain to let 'erngo. And what-
ate battery than Clanr's displeasure.      soever men may call me ; and whatsoever may
"Let us speak to Nick," added Kitty.     be thotght o' me; and whatsoever may be
The young ladies approached the man of the printed about me in the newspapers, it shan't
trap and gun, but not without misgivings.  never be said of me that I'm not i true man to
"We want to say something to you," whis- the centre o' my heart !"
pered Kitty, putting-her pretty face near his.  Kitty's expectations failed. She had thought
"Say it little woman,' quoth Nick.       to find yielding material in Nick, and was much
"We wish to speak a word for those men," disappointed.
she continued.                                "You are hard and cruelly" she exclaimed.
"Well, they need 'em, You can't say too     4Aid you are soft and merciful," answered
many wo""ds for 'em," replied Whiffles.    Nick, kindly. "I like your pity, but I eon-
"Don't hurt tieni," said Kitty..        demni your judgment. What compassioriyields'
"Not much," answered Nick. "We won't justice condemns."
hurt 'em much, nor long at a time."         " Give them at least a respite till morning,"
"Then you won't kill them?" queried the entreated Kitty, seeing that only that hope re-
girl, eagerly.                  t          mained.
"Well, I allow it'll nigh about amount' to  "I'll think on't, gal. I'll try i'nd sarve
that in the Bend," responded the trapper, with one way or t'other. Don't be feared o' nothiui'.
tranquillity. "I sepose my boys'll have their I allowall will come right at last. There! Go
own way with 'emsand they'll be likely to find up stairs. Women's counsel won't be needed-
a condemned little diffikilty about breathin' here."
afore long."                                 Nick arose.
"   n   let them  do it, Mr. Nick !" urged  "Where's Archie Roe F' le added, looking
itty." They are not fit to die."          about the room, as if in search of him. "That
"Nor to live, neither!" returned Nick, \vith bug-youth behaved handsomely in the skrim-
more earnestness. "Do you a'peet they'll be, mage.  He fired that little himge-gun at the
any fitter to-morrer, or next day, or next week ? rate of fifty times a minute. For a spell, oe
Not a it on't. They'll grow worse and worse. would thought that a whole cavalry regime#
The diffikilty'll increase hundred fold. Now's was engaged."  Nick laid his hand softly on
the time for 'em to go under. They've done Kitty's head, and said: " Let thenmas do evil '
about mischief enough. They'll never be good reap the fruits on't. Thiem that do right has
citizens till they're sbot."               nothin' to fear. Go up, gal, goup P"
"But one of. them  is an officer," argued  g-a----
ditty.-                                                 CHAPTER XXV.
" know it. I shan't harm him, but send          AUCHIE BAS A LUCID INTERVAL,
him, as soon as convenient, to the nearest mili.  The sensations of men guilty of great crimes,
tary post, where they can hang him, and arter- with a certain prospect-of esffering for them
wards t'y him for a spy. We don't kill nobody speedily, may to some extent be imagined.
'thout givin' 'em a trial, afore or arterwards _When Hugh 'Bramble and Aliek Iarker saw
which is the beauty of republikin institoo- the stern determination evinced by the moue-
tions."                                    taineers, both by their faces and their speech;
"If you can save one, you can save all," per. they trembled for the result,'notwithstanding
listed Kitty, taking possession of Nick's rough the hope which the appearance, of Mrs. Ei
hand.                                      mouth had inspired. -Thev ere astounded at
"Can't say I want to save 'em," muttered the readimess with which their starry eaptork
Nick. " They're p'ison critters anyway ; and came to a conclusion. Theirs grave unianmmitt'

Ix
A.
;  r
i $

i~

.    +
5
Y
L
I
r '
' 6
,}
^r
} a-
{y  :
u.;_
l
i+

\''

y
i"     f
r    ' S
r
1
I     j
"
l
}, .


7O           MOUNTAIN MAX ; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.
- srp rised and terrified them. There were no was standing near him, with his little rifle ia
dissenting voices respeeting the severity-of the his hand.
1u nishmenti-the only subject of disetussion  "Bugs and beetles, and lpng-legged strad-
eing the manner of its infliction. Impelled dlers !" said Archie, vaguely.   .
by the .instinctive love of life that dwells in  "Bring, me some water to wash my face, "
every hunau breast, they protested against the added the colonel. " I'm tired of this filth."
deoisionm;and followed up the protest by mean-  Archimi Roe repeated hi inot very definite re-
ingless apologies and threats.                spouse. Nick quietly ex laimed to the officer.
Blaeknier remained silent. He relied on two   "Head's out o'- order,"  he said.  "Book-
things: one being a declaration 'of his rank ; larnin' done it. Intelleck got stunned  with
and the other, the proiftise of Mrs. Kinmouth.  book. Siehi things never happen, 'cept in the
After cons-lerable discussion, it was finally  clearin's. There's a prison ditikilty imiitie rea-
eci Jed t-nt tie culprits should be taken out in sonmn' fakilties."
front of the house, aid shut. The majority of  I didn't see any difficulty in his han'dliing
the mountaineers wished the sentence to be car- that rifle, a little while ago," answered Black-
ried out imamediately ; but Nick firmly over- mer, suspiciously. "lHe did more mischief than
Fnled-their purpose.                         any of you.  Ihat's acussed Yankee coitiv-
i'Don't hurry 'em, boys l" he said. , "Let anice, I s'pose ?  Well, they're a nation of me-
'ens start fair mnd squ ire by daylight.  You chanies. Let 'em keep at work ; we shall want
can't see the sights now, I reckon.. If they can all they can make. A few more Bull Runs will
think of anything to say to make their side supply us pretty -well with arms."
look any hett-r in t'other wo Id, I'm willin'.  "Little Mac says there's to be no more o'
Don't 0 begrudge 'em  the miser'ble flag-eend o'. thema" said Archie, very sanely.
time atweem now and sunrise."  Then looking     " A very pleasant lunatic" responded Black-
at ' Blackmer, ihe added : " We - won't touch  mer, who was greatly re-assured by Nick's de
this critter in the-tattered clothes, because he's' vision to send hin to the nearest military post,
a Coufederate fficer,.an ano crime has beetsinstead of-treatimg him with the severity which
provedagin him. To be sure, lie come here in lie had reason to expect. While his life began
;,sguise;toimake a condemned diffikilty, yet it to flow on naturally and hopefully, the spirits
4on't appear that he's a bushwhaeker, in the of is follow-prisoners sank within, them. Pres-
o g'Iar dine o' pillage and murder. If sich he ently they were all consigned to a small upper
Was, lie should go yithl tether two, ant no mis. room, and it guard set over them. TIwo armed
take.' Weill teep hin till we find out more of men were stationed at the door, and two, more
his eajnthater, and :if lie's anything -ike a gini- outside1 to prevent escape from the window,
whine soldier, we'll treat him as a prisoner o' war, which, though some pains had been taken to
and send him to the nearest milit'ry post."   fasten it,, was not-considered secure. These pre-
Ti tmonutain-men were surprised- to learn cautions. having been taken, the remainder of,
Mot one of their prisoners was a Confederate the mountaineers, with the confidence atd in-
colonel, and most of these agreed that .Nick's difference characteristic of their habits, stretch-
policy was- good;, but some few called him a ed themselves upon the bare floor, and went to
epy, ani pointed to his dli;guis4 as proof.  sleep, with the utmost forgetfulness or fin ifi
"There's truth in what -you say,'t answered past or present.
Nick. " He did come-in a mean way, and on a    These arrangements were, to Mrs. Kir moutb,
mean u.rralt.; and e c'udin't be blamed mmh  matters of peculiar interest. It was now four
if wuI should sarye hin as le'd have sarved us, oelock ; consequently but a few Hours remain-
if lied bgeiensuccessf sl.  He was .a 'Fed'ral ed in which- to act. But she solaced herself  -
hdimes,'a Unioin lligator', and all that flambergas- with the reflection that the mountaineers were
timrihypopi'itieady,. to deceive us an( spring a weary, and that those hours were the sleepiest
trap io'us. BitutBtime trap has ketchel -ins own of the morning.  The day would presently
fingers. Asfor these other two, there worse dawn, aind'she felt the necessity of rapid action.
or Digger Injins I Guard 'em two hours arter What was she to do?   That was the very ques-
sunrise, then take 'ens out and do as you like tion to be determined., Whom should she trust.
Ivith 'etm; and I hope the Master o' Life -'11 for help? Kitty, of course. It had not been
hime imarey on them as have had no marey on long simce she had solemnly resolved never to
uthre.s.                                      put confidence in her msre ; but matters hid so
b I-shal have no further use for these things," changed, that site was now compelled to receive
id Jslacokmer, snatching off his wig, and throw- her co-operation.  While many others were
ng i-upon the ioor ; then taking off his tat- sleeping, uneilr that roof, Kitty anh ler mother
ite d coat-and irroawsers, he stood before them  n inwere plotting-one for love, the other for safety.
kooloneh's tmniftorm.                          " We must call in Archibald Roe," said Kit-
SThere - , That ends that business ; -and a ty..
cor endsit , is I Boy, bring me some water,"  "He's crazy !" returned her mother, quits
$kn last words were'addressed to Archie, who startled at the proposition.

MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.                          71
"He has lucid intervals," said Kitty.    I The ' lucidity' you have mentioned is not appar.
"9He will betray us," added Mrs. Kinmouth, eit to-night. I really don't think he is caps.
beginning to distrust her daughter's judgment. ble of taking care of himself. He ought not to
" Whatever you do, never take a fool into your be permitted to wander about the country.
confidence."    ,alone, as ie is in the habit of doing."
" Archibald is no fool !" retorted Kitty, with  Clariswas, studying the youth with her large,
spirit.  "le fought the bushwhackers deter- eyes; while Kitty watched the three.
minedly. He may-object to assisting us, bat he  "Archie," said Clar, "' we need help. Will
will not betray us."                        you help us ?"
"This is very singular!" replied her mother,  "I'll get my little rifle," answered Archibald;-
musingly. 'If the youth has so much 'sense "and then you can tell me whom you want
and acuteness concealed rnder a garb of folly, hit."
lie is a very dangerous person to have about."  "Stay !" said Clar. " You won't need your
"le may be dangerous to one who is not gun. You must help us by eunnink, not by
loyal. He knew which side to take when the shooting."
bushwhackers cane. If you are a rebel, moth-  "If you want cunning," replied the youth,
er, he knows it."                           tapping his forehead with his finger, " Iave it
'Yost are a strange child !" said Mrs. Kin- here in quantities.  t is cutining that takes
mguth, in a very thoughtful manner. " The care of me when I a 1 away, and brings me
e House on the Bluff is not without its mysteries. back safe by day or by night. I learn cunning
If we go on in this way, the Kinmouths will be- of the bugs, bugaboos, humbugs, and bug.
come historical, and  pass into romance and bears. You should see the specimens that I
song."                                      find in my travels."
e     Mrs. Kinmouth tried to look into Kitty's     Archibald gave Mrs Kinmouth a glance that
eyes, but she skillfully averted them.      made her feel uncomfortable.
Clara appeared at the door with Archie. , It  "I find specimens," he went on, " in by-roade
was just what Kitty expeetod..              and cross roads ; in' hidden  paths, in secret
"Here lie is !" said Mrs. Kinmouth, somewhat ways; in old huts and cabins, and in hollow
contemptuonsly.  "I an compromised to you trees !"
two girls, and things cannot be much worse ; so  Mrs. Kinmouth's uneasiness' increased.
speak to this poor boy, and let me see if you  "There are bugs I call 'Secesh-bugs, that I
can make anivthing of him. My condition can- find mostly by night. They gather iu woods
not well be tone embarrassing. If those pris- and swamps, and show their ligl t4 in the dark,
oners tell what they think they know, the Kin- like the fire-bug. These are 'gray bugs, which
mout h house will be no place for me. They crawl into their holes before morning. I shall
tniist escape, or I must. Matters are desperate class them as gray Coufederators, nmnd another
with me, my children.'                     kind that I have found, the blue Federals."
"Oh   that you could recede !" exclaimed    " This young person is very iifeolherent," ob-
Clari. "That you could take backward steps! served Mrs. Kinmouth, singularly- affected by
That you could return to your allegiance ! That Archie's remarks.
you could forsake and forswear secession her- Clar looked at Kitty, and said :
"-Come, Kit; bring him to his lucidity."
Clara tok olher stepmother's hand, and spoke  " I cannot work miracles," returned the girl,
very fe- lingly. c.,eoloring ; "but I will try te lead him to the
The rebel lady was silent some moments.   point."
"It is too late !" she answered, by-anid-by.  "Lead on !" said her mother, impatiently,
" Alick UIarker vi.l not die without-telfing what ." Archibald Roe,' began Kitty, looking Lime
he knows of me." 'Then to Arehie; in a gentle youth steadily in the face, "it is necessary for
tone. _. "My daughter Kitty wishes to speik to mother's safety that those three men should es-
you, lad.  how do von feel'to-night ? 'Does cape."
your head pain you '                          "It is necessary for the safety of many others
'  feel well, and my head is right," airswered that thtiy should not," he aniwei'ed in a-straight.-
Archibald. "It turns around slowly, like a re- forward manner.
volig lighthouse."                         Mrs. Kinmouth started, And kept her eyes
Mrs. Kiumiouth looked significantly at Kitty. fixed on the youth.
"It must be very pleasant," she added, in' the  "I know that they are wicked and cruel," re-
same tone, "to have your head turn like a re- sumed Kitty ; "but, for the sake of mother,'
volving lighthouse!"                        you must help them    away. If they esape
"It is very convenient," replied Archibald, from the mountaineers, they cannot esoape front
gravely; " for I can see things without turning justice."
my botly."                                     Keep me steady with your eyes, Kitt;.
"That satisfies me!" muttered Mrs. Kin- don't turn them-away. - They give me Iightll"
mount i. "1 don't wish to hear anything more, said the-youth.

t

hi

w :


72      MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICO WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER,

I think they do!" murmured Clari.'
"They cannot get away," Archie went on,
clearly and consistently. "There are guards at
the door and guards under the window. They
cannot go out at the door or window."
"6Unless the. guards go to sleep," eaid Mrs.
"They won't go to sleep," answered Arebi-
bald. -
"If they cannot go through the walls of the
room, they must go out at top or bottom," he
d, presently.
At top or bottom!h" repeated Mrs. Kin-
imouth.
"That will be through the floor or ceiling,"
observed Kitty.
" Or up the chimney," said Archibald.
"14e is indeed becoming sensible !" muttered
Mrs. Kinmouth, with a glance at Clari.
" And you will help them -- wi l you not,
Archibald ?" asked Kitty, in a persuasive man-
ster.
NoI" responded the youth.
" For nyotlier's sake, Archie I" continued Kit-
ty, in a winning tone.
"NoI" persisted Archibald.
"Formy sake, ArehieI"
She leaned a little toward him, and her voice
was modulated to a softer accent. She took his
hand.
Mrs. Kinmouth and Clari beheld this scene
with increasing curiosity. They wondered that
Kitt.y had power to lead the youth out of his
toe ital darkness.
He did not say " No", but lie shook his head
slowly and discouragingly. There was a great
"No I" in his thoughts.
" I am very sure," resumed Kitty, " that you
have skill enough to aid them. I do not ask
you to help them, because they are deserving of
help, but to prevent certain things that will be
t iaagreeable to another."
/ Arelibald'sface glowed, and hiseyes sparkled.
"'It is too late to tillnl of that," lie said, with
sudden fierceness. "Many people have felt dis-
agreeable. The mnca Alick Harker and his
iushwhackers have hanged, felt disagreeable I
Death- in ainy form, is disagreeable. Cdr. Kin
mouth felt disagreeable, twenty-four hours ago,
with a rope around his neck, and the ruffians
ready to push him front the window. And the
nian in the wall!' How felt he ?"
He -raised his arm and pointed at Mrs. Kin
mouth while lie was speaking. That lady grew
very pale, and muttered, half aloud
a 6 "This young man is not mad; if he is, it ii
-  strange madness."
AThose who enter upon a long road, and
walk in it, ought to know where it leads," added
.Arabibald, in the same tone. " Those who be
tray, must, in turn, suffer betrayal. Gooi men
die deaths fit only for mangy curs; and whc
grieves for it?  Not the bushwhaokcrs ; not the

the men in gray ; not those who ride nights to
carry letters fill of destruction."
Kitty's-color caine and weit. She involunta-
rily shrank from Archibald Roe. She thought
of her midnight journey. Never did she feel so
guilty, and never did the youth look so -noble
and so handsome.
Mrs. Kinmouth sj)rang from her chair, sent
some swift and terrified glances at him, trem-
bled, and sat down again. She was greatly
troubled. Various emotions shook her firm-
ness. Suspense and self-condemnation tortured
her. She silently clasped her hands, and wish-
ed she was like Clari or Kitty-loyal at soul.
Clari, though still laboring under surprise,
gazed at Archibald with a calm, lofty, and ap-
proving expression. She thought she could see
the flitting figure of Love standing ,between
Kitty and Archibald Roe. To her seeing, the
youiig god smiled on both, and she marveled at
her past blindness.
" I told mother." said Kitty, coldly, "that I
could xely on you."
" So you can," lie answered, "for anything
that is right, but not to save traitors and assas-
sins. I know what you. fear. I ,ani well ac-
quamited with the strong motive that impels
you to make a request so much at variance with
your character. The motive takes away the
criminality of the intention ; and the intention
itself falls to the ground a hopeless thing. If I
were willing to risk my life, how could I save
these men? Can I ascend to the roof, remove
shingles and boards, and take the prisoners out?
Can I go below and engineer through the floor,
with a dozen mountaineers sleeping within a
few feet of me?  You see how impossible it is.
Aliek Harker and his two friends must help
themselves, for I cannot."
f   " We can drug the men at the door I" said
Mrs. Kinmouth, in a suppressed voi""
"You may do that," replied Arbt wit&amp;
troubled look "I will not! But I will be
silent. For the sake of Kitty, and. Clar, and
you, I will be silent. Do what you will, and
fear .nothing from inc."
"I, for one," interposed Clan, "hold you
blameless."
Kitty said nothing, but glanced at Archie and
sighed.
CHAPTER XXVI.
NICK VISITS iRS. KIgMOIITH.
There was a heavy step in the upper hall, and
immediately some one knocked. -Clari opened
the door, and saw the tall figure of Nick Whiffles.
lHe crossed the threshold, and handed a scrap of
paper to Mrs. Kinmouth.   On it .was written
these words, in pencil:
"MRs. KiNMOUTH :-Aliek Tarker sayshe must see yo-
He is very urgent, and it will not be safe to refuse him.
If these lines should reach you, de not tail to come t
e us.           ,'                 BIAOKME."

I.

MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLE3 ON THE BORDER.

Mrs.. Kinmoth read it very quickly, then
passed It to K, t:. ~
"Did roe read it, Mr. Whiffles ?" Mrs. Kin-
inoutl asked..
"Not a word,"    Nick answered.    " It was
thrust under the door, and the prisoners begged
that it might be given to yon.  'hle favor was
so triihii', andi I hey was so amirnest, that I pichetl
it mup and brought it. Tem ma hiave'n't long to
live sloii lIhe 'humored, when it eaa bedone
without n uel Itrouble."
Mrs. K11   ihte  reflected. She took the pa-
per from Katy, and giving it to Nick, said
" Read'it."
He r. ad it ; but rather slowly, on account of
the diminess'of the'lines.
Do you want to see this Alick Harker ?" lie
asked.
"No," replied Mrs. Kinmouth ; " I don't wise'
to see him, unless-"
"1Uniess what ?" queried Nick.
The lady's eyes se.trcel Nick's thoughts be-
fore she replied. Site believed it would be use-
.less -to say what she at first intended, and sle
discreetly answered :
.'"No matter. The fanicy is past. I perceive
that you are determined. Two of those men
will suffer. Why should I trouble mysblf about
them? . 1 uvill tell you: I have a natural repug-
nance to deeds of violence."
I know it," quoth Nick, dryly.      " You
wouldn't have nobody hanged for the world
especially the worthy Kinhmouth. 0 Lord, no!"
Mrs. Kiimiouthm's heart gave a    frightened
thump against its fleshly bars. Soni of that
sounded like a quotitionfron one of lier letters.
Nick, intentionally, or otherwise, had touched
her in a sensitive spot.
Kitty blushed. Clari looked grave. Archie
m91'4    earer to Kitty, and their eyes iiet.
as a recogiuitiom of something iii each.
Wh     was it ? Clari interpreted it, and wis-
pered to herself:   "It is loveI I wonder if
these two young people know it? How long
has this guest been a dweller in our house r
Deceitful Kitty ! Cunning Archie ! What are
we coiling  to?   Between   mad   youth  and
mounitami men, we shall come to grief."
So mentally said Clami to Clari.
Miss -Sally Dowse popped in. Folly came,
also, close at lier' skirts. She had a word to say.
'-Then she isn't a nattomn like lie," she iast-
ened to affirm. " I'll hang 'emi all, big and lit-
tie, hag andi baggage, horse, foot, and artillery."
"Je'    '' s:ti I Nick. " Hoss, foot, and artil-
lery ; pertic'larly the artillery.''
Sally glanced at him to see if lie was quizzing
her ; while Mrs. Kimnmouthi availed herself of
the pause to remark:
"Do as you please, Mr. 'hiffies. I have
very little pity for such wretches." Just I len
she was tbiikiiig of her last meeting with Har-

ker. His conduct on that' occasion had well
nilh soured hr sympiathiies fir retels.
I wish all the bush whaekers was as short,
lived as them  two," added Satlly, with iron ii-
gidity of mtanne'r.
"omnie to look at ye, straight and steady,"
said Nick ; "you, 'mi ine of i   at'ralai't
o' miine, on a  mother's side, who finally living
herself- to a soiir atple-tree with a skein'o' yarr.
omi account o' being crossed in love."
Miss Dowse bridled up.
She was an amni'ble critter, she was," re
sumned Nick, with a semntiuemital waggle of the
head.  "She was dreadful attmehed tc cats and
dogs, was my A't Civthyv. Had a hiimouse full
o' that kind o' pets. .Kept a reg'lar canine and
feline hotel.  Sih  hated humans like p'ison-
'cause, sne said, cats ani dogs lived up to their
natuttrs, and bmans' d don't. She hiatt a artifi-
cial pond made for her pets to swim in. She
earned the cats to hiunt in cough s. She was
mithtv' foid o' Sketch terriers, 'cause the hair
growed the wrong wty    Ltehir backs i; ant she
knit up the woolyiioto s into stocikin's for the
Sainit 3am'runars nai thum Newl'ndhtnds."
Sally turned up her nose, and looked con
temptuously at Nicek.
"Glory hallelujah ! My soul's nebiin' on !"
chuckled Flly, who was delighitel with Whiffies.
This isn'tL"no time for jestin'," said Sally
Dowse, rebukinigly.  "For tIe life of nieI
couldn't joke when the country is layin', as
'twere, at the p'int of the hagonect."   '
" People hadn't omighiter e cheerful when they
can help it, I know," replied the trapper. " My
uncle, the t'ravelem', would jest suited you ; and
I don't -mean him, neither ; but my brother, the
Methodist gouspell'r. who ind shch a bearin'
down sense of the unii'nsal regenermey and mis-
erableness of this world, that lie ground with
every breath he drmawed.  You'd ealkilate that
hie hadn't no appetitee to his' vittles, and was
thini as a charity'cut o' bread ; but wantt no
sich thing ; he'd eat like am nmyconda, and
weighed nigh don't as much as'a'ull butler.
He was a sweet-tempered critter. 'Twould done
ye good to ear himi fetch a sigh, from the bot-
tern of his boots up'arls, aind sing peinyrials
through his nose. IH was a revivaler, ie was,
and had- melting' times with tihe sisters. 0
Lord" yes!    He held scamp-maeetin's in the
woods."
" Oh, glory !" exclaimed Folly, unable to re-
strain her enthusiasm. "Lordy, Mars'r NickI
Wish you'd buy me."
Sally aimed a .back-handed blow at her pro-
teg6e, who dodged it without thme'least difficulty.
What you want me to buy ye for?" asked
Nick.
"Cause I takes 'a shine to ye !" cried Folly,
dancing up amb down. "Never seen nobody I
takes sickl a shiine to."
Bleeged to'ye, by mighty" said the trap.

i t S
t.
f
f
. tr
y i
lK     1
''t
S
.7;  ' ',
,;   i
~     .,
A
~     t
t
I .   f
t


V

74     'MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.

Ii'
de
m
-      fe
at
li
in
lui
sk
on
m
ni
ea
a
be
re
th
nc
m
yr
al
h
M
la
al
r
th
w
qj
th
w
I,
ki

er, comically. "But it's a kind o' property plied Mrs. Kinmouth. "Leave the risk to me."
ain't, as yet, put much money into. I've   "Those who take the drug will incur the
alt mostly in peltries; but you haven't got risk," remarked Kitty, who regarded this cx-'
uch of a pelt, 1 allow. A beaver skin would periment with no friendly eyes.
tch more in tote market, I reckon." -      Folly returned with the pitcher of water.
"Laws, Mars'r Whiffles, could do ye heap o' Mrs. Kinmouth filled the glasses with it, added
ood ! Could cook for ye, and laugh- at your sugar and  lemon, and  stirred the  whole
ories. Glory! I'd die laughin'. I wouldn't thcrougrily. She placed the glasses on a tray.
ve four years.",                          Folly, fidgeting about, working her arms and
"I hadn't got confidence," quoth Nick, turn- elbows in every conceivable wanner, watched
g his head slowly from side to side. "And I these final arrangements with staring eyes and
ain't the capital, nuther. , You're a sort o' open mouth.
edaderacy article that I don't know the vally  " Carry this tray to the two men in the pass-
. "You wouldn't like it much up in the age across tie hail," said Mrs. Kinmouth, ad-
.ountaig , scuttlin' hither and yon, ridin' a dressing the chattel ; " and tell them that Nick
ossback, and campin' on the ground among Whiffles sent it to keep them ewalse."
atyve Ingins."                              "Glory, missus-!- Should think it tight keep
" Hold your tongue !" commanded Sally, 'em awake. There's a right smart half pint o'
itching Folly by the shoulder, and giving her this yen, fr 'em apiece,"'answered Folly, grin-
pinch that made her cry "John Broi's ning with great good-nature.
ody t" on a scale of agony.                "Take it along, girl, and remember what I
By this time Mrs. Kinniouth was calm, and have told you to say," added the lady, with
ady to act with ler usual judgment.      severity.
" Go to bed, Mr. Whiffles," she said, in a tone  "Sartin, missus !  'Members everything
at seemed really friendly. "You have watched hears.  Never forgits nothin', I doesn't," a -
uch, and sleep must be welcome. You need serted Folly, seizing the tray with an alacri y
ot be astir for some Hours yet. Think well of that set'the glasses dancing," with some pros.,
ie. We inay see clearly, anon."           nett of a slide to the floor.-
"I hope-so," said Nick, fervently. "i'll take ~"Mind what you're about!" cautioned Mrs.
our advice, and go to bed.  Gal," to Folly, Kiumouth.  "You know what you'll get, if
show me. to a blanketand a pillow ; them is you break those."
1 1 need for a sound sleep."                "Glory, hallelujah ! I'll git that, I s'pect,"
said Folly, passing through the door, which Mrs.
CHAPTER XXVII.                  Kinmouth opened for her, and closed after her.
FOLLY DOES A FoOLIsH THING.           " There I'' declaimed the lady, sinking into a
After Nick had retired, and Archibald Roe chair in an exhausted manner. "That is done."
ad disappeared in some part of the house,   "Perhaps !" murmured Kitty.
rs. Kinimouth, crossing the upper hall, and  Meantime Folly crossed the hall very
loling uito a narrow and dimly-lighted pass- ly, and without accident; but there,  '
gg, saw the two mountain-men keeping watch willed it, she met Splayfoot, who had,
t the prisoners' door. She went back to her being showing heirtsome attentions. He..
ooms, and seat Folly for some cool water, to talk with her a moment. She god-
Thile shevwas gone, she took a. bottle and ly set the tray down upon the floor..
ane glasses from the closet, and turned from  '"What's this yer?" whispered Splayfoot.
Ie bottle two large glasses of whisky.      " Done gone if I knows ! Whisky, I'speet.
Clari and Kitty observed her silently.   Smells like it a heap," responded Folly, in the
She next took a vial from a small case ; it same tone.
as full of a dark fluid, a quantity of which she  "'Whar you gwine with.it 2"
poured into the whisky in the glasses.       "In yer." She pointed to the passage. " It's.
-Be careful,  mother !" admonished Kitty, for them mountainers. I'm to tell'em-that fun-
nite terrified. "I'm  afraid you'll dome- ny man sent it."
ing dreadful."                             "Gorry mighty!" exclaimed Splayfoot. "Too
"Be quiet !" answered her mother, firmly, much dis yer. White ,folks can't stan' noflin'
I know what I am doing."     .            like it. Why ! 1nuff dar for a black feller. Don't
"I protests" faltered Clari. " There is dan- want to 'toxicate 'em, does ye'? Now you're
er ih this."                             je' fixin' yourge'f for a cutr in' up. We Inust
You treat,me as if I were a child !" retort- pour out some o' dis yer."
d the mother, proceeding steadily with her  He shook his head, and looked very grave.
ork. "Were I ignorant of the effects of this,  "Whar shall we pour it?'' asked Folly, some-
wpiuld not give it. It will stupify-it will not what startled.
ill." -                                     "In yer !' replied the inventive negro, open-
"All over-dose kills," said Clari.       ing his mouth wide, and stabbing at it with his
"4I a  nbt going to give an over dose," re- finger.

t
t

75

"Laws ! Never should thulghit o' that !" I all their synipathmies and prejudices to her
She did not quite tell the truin, for the idea safety. They believed in the Union; yet, to
had already entered her mini. "'Twon't do sramteii her froi exposure, they were remaining
to take much of it, though ; jes' sip a little passive, when every feeling revolted at what
from the top, nig, and put the glass-right down .slie was doing.. Ought not this to weigh some-
agin, Mind, now !" '                         thing in the balance ? She dared not trust hies
Beth beimg of the same inclinafion, farther womanly impulses to answer ; but opening tro
argument was useless ; so -they first tasted, door gently, went out.
then drank.  Th' unaniiity was wonderful.   She walked directly to the little hall where
The glasses were certainly not more than half the mountaineers were suplposed to be keeping
full when they were replaced upon the. tray. faithful watch and ward. No light was burnimg
They b'g:n to warm at once. Folly wanted to there ; but the dawning day with its msisty ir.
sin "Jhin Brown's Bely", but Splayfoot had radiation, made the mt en visible. They were
prulener enough to check her. They sat down  stretched upon 11e floor, sleeping, their uncon-
beside the tray, grinne.I at each other a d at scions hands still instnetively grasping their
the half emptied gh sses.                   rifles, which had lain beside then on many a
"Never'll do to e irry 'em- dis yer little prairie, and by many streams in the far-off
mite," quothi Splayfoot, philosophically. "Ain t wilderness.
'nouhri to do 'e:n no goel. Might as well      She hesitated before advancing; then hearing
Anishi it, an 1 git 5  ine more for then yer mon- their heavy respiration, glided into the passage.
tainers.  'With these instructive words, the She stepped lightly over the slumbering men;
negro raised the glass and drained it to the last they did not stir. She felt herself flushing and
drop. glowing. It was a moment of suspense. -She
Folly made a fait giggling, and whispered  bent to scan their faces; they were not so pale
remnsteaice ; then snatching the twin glass, as she hoped .p see them, but red and life-like,
swallowe.l its remaining coiteats with much whem: they should have been white or leaden.
quticklinsg and .tr:uagli'm.              She detected in the air no fume of whisky, not
'n.~.a                 the peculiar odor of the drug. She said to
The best plans fail. human calculations fall herself:
short. l'hat which is purposed with every     " This is susspicious ; but all may be right,
augury of success, oftentimes never happens. Iun so agitated that I cannot judge calmly."
The straight line of seeming certainty, running  She tinted from the mountaineers and fln-
from cause to effect, through a series of events, l  ckted the door. As cautiously as she pro.
is sometimes the most fallacious and unreliable cerded, the bolt ae nt back with a sharp click
of thiumigs. So it proved with Mrs. Kinmouth's tLamt  utdo thie sleeping watchers start. Mrs.
experiment. The stupifying drug, by a most Kinmouth gasped for breath, and stood painfully
natural turn of affairs, went iwto the wrong  still. One of then rose upon his elbow, yawned,
stomachs,. and threw two chattel-blacks ito a and fell back upon his-hard couch,
deadly etarigy.  Feeling  the liquid acting  Thle lady leaned against the wall, quite faint,
upon thmem 'with great power, they arose 'and ht recovering herself anon, she graspe the
cud t a~ay to a dark corner, where they soon  knob; and with marvelous self-eommand,topened,
became Vuconscious.          ,               the door. She could see nothing;'at first; ;ev-
Folly 'muttered  "Glory, hallelujah 1" ag  n.rthing was vague and dim within. iThe Creep-
said her soul was" Marchin'' on 1"as sense and  ing light of monming came to her aid, aid the
reason went reeling away.                    forms of the prisoners became visible. '
A gloomy group was before her. With their
CHAPTER XXVIII.        _         faces'in their hands, Aick Harker add Hugh
THE END.s           'i   - Bramble sat pondering darkly on the fate before
Mrs. Kinmouth waited what she considered a thim. She tapped softly on a panel, and they
suitable time ; but that, though scarcely half looked up with a nervous start. She lieekoned
an hour, was a very long time to her, in her to them. They arose at once, electrified at the
nervous and anxious state.   Her charming   thought of escape.
daughters slept, or feigned to sleep. The last  IBlackmer, though in the least danger, 'was
was true, for they never felt less like the solace the first to move. The other two, however,
of slumber.   They closed their eyes, their were suficienty alive to the situation. They
pretty eyes ; but their thoughts were awake and approached Mrs. Kinmmoath as their food angel.
acti .  They sat so close that their chairs W     mas it not well to have a'friend in need'?- Was
tiftschsed, and their four hands were nestled to  ever anything more to their wishes? -For a
gether. The intriguing and crafty woman, re- moment they'felt the joy of reprieve.
lining in her easy-ehair, looked at them2  The  They suddenly stopped. Mrs. Kinmouth felt
sight was not without its 'moral.  Her heart a touch on her shmihuler, nl turning, with a
was touched. Those two girls, though entirely sudlder, saw the guards standing beside her, ia
opposed to ier in sentiment, were sacrificing perfect wakefulness, and her pyes wandering

't
'1
.1
it

, ; ,
's  r
.
t
t 3  ,
:              ..      o
i' + "      i
,
t *+
,
e
!            k,+
PP1
_         t   "S s

MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON TIlE BORDER.

A'

t


76      MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFFLES ON THE BORDER.

invollntatrily along the passage, fell on Nick
Whiilles riil Mountain Mix.
SFail back, inen !'' sail Nick, calmly. "4Come
but, Mrs. Kinmouth. It las f:led. It won't
do, my lady I Mountalin mn alle.ers sleep with
one eye open. Vour drugs tas gone to the
dogs; and not to the dogs, neither, but to your
chlcUels. You've Showed  gaiime, by, mighty!
but it's throwid away in these p'ison critters.
If you like t'oter sado best, I don't blame ye
for btiekin' to't; but time mistake, woman, was
in tli choice."
Mrs Kiimouth tottered from  the passage.
The lant venture h:mil conc to -naught. Mouo-
tain Mix looked at her compassionately.
'. 'not desert us! ' cried Aliek Harker.
" You must and shall save us."
What the lady feared was at hand.
Those who had charge of the prisoners made
an attempt to close t te door ; but they pressed
against it nd pievented them.
"Mrs. Kiinmouth," exclimed Blackmer, ".and
this ime I believe I have the real Mrs. Kin-
mouth-jwhat this man s Sys is reasonable. He
fd ,his friend are coindemned to death by these
Lincolites. You tre no    v common woman. You
} r         are rich,, you are accomplished, you are all- .
-    powerful- in your own household. You can
ate your say and .-sway. We hold you to
tls          our reponsibility. We will not let you go.
Your old neig hbors appeal to you for mercy.'"
Mrs. Kinmnouth trembaled violently. Moun-
thin Max, seeing her situation, supported her
ich a pitying arm.
" Yes!" shouted Iarker.   "We   are, old
neighb~o~s. -ler daughter Clari was once my
sweetheart."
False ! false !" said a voice from the back-
g round"thatsounded like an echo, and-and-
fike the voice of Clari.
A tremtorshook the arm of Bosworth. Mrs.
Mitimoutli felt the thrill of his nerves, and knew
whit; it meant. Slee km;ew that it meant Clari.
She asked herself: "Will not Clari be better
than to have him pass forever from my sight ?"
lien heart said " Yes! I
" Refuse to save us, at your peril !" threatened
fliarker, insolently, thinking t at he held her in
the pahn of his hand. -
"i'ell hini,", whispered-Max, with his lips
close to Mrs. Kinmouth's car, " to say his'say,
and'do his worst."
a   lme knew then where her safety lay. Those
friendly words reassured and encouraged her.
Sheiww that Boswortlh knew all, and was ready
to forgive all-for the sake of Clai-perchance,
somewhiat for her own sake. -A revulsion that
was sudden as the lightning passed over her.'
Is that the man who was going to murder
my husianid ?" she asked, quickly, and' with
great tact..
,.oliThe same," said Nick Whifles.
" How dare lie speak to me !" she muttered.

For an instant, ITarker was, silent. Te was
confounded. Ilis alacity soon returned.
40Occ more, Mrs. Kinmouth, will you save
us ?"
His voice was hoarse with anger and terror.
"Ten minutes ago," answered Mrs. Kinmouth,
with spirit, "I would have saved you; but now,
so help me God, I }v 'uld not, if I had the
power! You have threatened to betray me;
but you shall not. I will betray myself. I will
confess to these men that I have been a secret
foe of the Union,,ani the willing instrument of
'traitors. I have performed services for them.
at, the remembrance of which I blush, thinking
Secession to mean Liberty, and the Confederacy,
Chivalry. I an disappointed in both. When
men stoop to betray an ally, and that ally a
woman, I doubt the justness of their cause, and
repudiate it. I can and will tell more than you
can reveal."
I forbid it !" said Bosworth, putting bis
hand upon her lips.
" And I, also !" said Nick. " I do; hvmighty 1
We know all we want to know, at d ise to him,
as tells us more !"         --      -
''You are dedeived.,-yon Nick Vhiffles, and
you, Mountain Max," cried larker, vindictive-
ly. "'rhis'woman betrayed ye toth."
"You're..a treacherous bound t"- retorted
Nick.  "If a pretty woman like that was to
take up with my cause,,anl to help me as air-
nest and faithful as she's done, I'd be dragged
to pieces by wild perairie-hosses, rather think
betray her when my neck is in danger;"
"Al! that is the right spirit !" murmured
Mrs..Kinmouth.
"Letters and holler trees,. midnight journeys
ttd gals on hossbaek, are known to as as we! I
assto youm. So, you seejyou p'ison Secesh, that
your last chance is gone," said Niel    a
in a tone of unmistakable satisfhction.
Mrs. Ki:monutli felt two other arnas stealing
roummd her;,her daughters were gently clasp-
ing her.
" He's right," growled Harker, fiercely.
"It's the last chance. Damn the Yankees !
Let's run for it, colonel. Come on, Hugh !"
The hushwhackersf made a desperate rus!,
followed by Blackmer and -Bramble. The sen-
tinels did not oppose thepa.  They pushed
through the passage past Nick and Max, and
gained the head of the stairs, when there was a
sharp, report,, and Blackmer fell. The other
two sprang down the stairs, gained the outside
door, tore it open, and bounded into the open air.
"Saved !" cried Harker.
"Firel'' said a stern voice.
A half-dozen rifles answered this mandate.
The fugitives leaped into the air, and fell on
their faces, stricken by avenging bullets. They
clutched the ground with their hands, writhed,
struggled a few moments with Fate, and ex-
pired.

MOUNTAIN MAX; OR, NICK WHIFiLES ON TIE BORPE.-

Nick Whiffles turned to Clari and Kity, who
were yet clasping Mrs. Kinmouth's waist,.and
said, presently :
Tlere ar itoich p opile on airth as Alick
Harker and Hugh Bramble. My ulemn have set'
tied their account, wliienm had run too long for
the good of Ihonest people. But this ecp"-
lie approached BitckAuer-" seems to be lively
enough . lies  ity wocnided. It wams Archie
that done it  A quick eye'that lad has."
Then to the colonel
" I say, mister, how fres it witlm ye ?  qot a
condemned little  guish ,t diflikilty-haven't
ye ?"
" If birng; shot through the hImogs, is a little
difficulty,'I I we it," replied -Blackmer, faintly.
" Oght to said where -vou was, colonel,"
pont inmd Nick. " Yo've tn' right into the
danger you's afearl of,. Hovsonmiever, we'll do
what we can for ye., Lift hhin up, Max, while
I unbutton his coil,."     '
Boswortl place Iol the wounded man in a more
coofortbthle position, wiele Wlhiffles began to
aet as sigeon.   Unbumttoninig the  colonel's
coat, he fimn 1, betveec it and' tie vest, a white
ostelIct weather -onee white-but now stimied
with blood. Kitr behlqld it with a shiver of e-
gret. Nik e tat.'it    mid , mid was umuhoiig Ihe
-  w    est,  nLl a-etter deped from an inner,pmmek-
et. Ierecogomz.Pit at once, anI so did Kitty.
It was thie ~sane she had carried to the cabin
in the wo.ols. The trapperi, arose, ai Isilently
gave it toMrs Kimn uoeh; who received it with
a sigh .amd a blush, tad quickly put It out of
iight.
Boswortlt affueted not to see this letter or
movemeniti
1% e, mother, whispered Chri. "'There
will soo  bno witnesses of our brief treiegon."
" Thereh1 be Onte !' murmured Mrs. Kin-
mouth, glanicinig uipwaamrd
-'The former things has passed; away, I al-
low,"' said Nick, with a serious air, and aim op-
proving mo.h at Kitty.  -
" Domyt touch time wound !"- gasped Black-
me. 4 Yoi would only torture ic. I have
thrown away my life. I- was lured hither by
that dog Harker-and perhaps, too, by'those
eyes."

77

"l He glanced furtively at Kitty.
"My folly csts- miie dearly. No more war,
no more glory, no morp love-making for me'
Friends and foes, farewell '-
He -straigteie lhis .limbs, closed his eyes,
and did not speak ag:inn, alttiougli lie conm mue
to breathe for some imoements.
"The Mast Witness Las gone, mn1otler,-'- said
Kitty, softly.
The three women turned froin the still and
now lifeless figure, with subdued and solemn
feelir.gs.
The bushwhnekers never prospered in that
region after thamt night. Nick Whifiles and his
mmiounmtain-men proved a scourge acd .a terror to
them. - These brave fellows are doing good
sereiee for the Unim. Nick has distinguished
himself in many battles, and had a e.great num-
ber of '' condeimined little diffikilties' with the
Rebels. hIis omeim is a tower oh' 'trength i that
section of Missi-umi. lie occasionally turns a
longing eye to tie moouenttmis ; but no wander-
ing thought can at tract 1is-honest biecjt I'ronm
its devotion to Liberty and the.Old 1lag. The
star that now directs his stet s,.by day and by
night, is 'notIthe North siar of mlme old trpping-
gr uids, but the pole-stair of Freeivm.
ianx .Boswell has never, since that eventful
might, hidden ini the will.l   ien fumad it
plahice of safety iin Clhiri's.rits ; and when there
is danger, she-shelooks himi l
Archibald Roe has'foiuhnd a "specimen" that
pleases him  ihminitely better thaInmy hlip ever
pimned oi cards during his cosieneeit andk sue-
cessfu lnimidrgess. It is a lady-buig called Kitty -
and report says tecit there wall, be a weddingm  A.
Robert Kiimimouthh'sii jmpst about a fertmiiglit
afterE peace  is declared.  Meanwliile; Kitty
(mnds-lis " luc1 Ietervals" 'ery enterinimng.
All ges happilyit:Kitmiioumthi's. Mrs. 'Ki-
nienth,. if icot yapmrty -Unionist, at leastsym--
pathlizes with :nrt eause, mnd sincerely regfi s
her former disloynity. -IHr husband wase acaI
hoodwinked; niimtioes not know the extent:of
her coamplicity to ;his day.

('iB END.]

Y7

r    _

I


K

N E W .BOO 
UUUT I5 UD Y
Fedorio A.Brady, 1I
22 .A.NN  STREET, Ne'.
Mailed free of Postage on reeipt of r -

DUMAM' NEW BOOKS.                  a
.              ~      ~~~on of Jehu__.......... ............. $  0
Poyalists andi Repubiteans; or, The Coin
An  ehisffamous "Monte Christo," no work of
tils great novelist has produced such a wonderful
ssesatioa. It is an immense book, Everychte
1s instinct with life. Every incident if   of
etsatty, There is not a single dull pag in the
Whole bok'
Wo, .ttiiotine g                         50
Dumias takes ap e of the most thrllifig nad5
dents in the wal's history-thewar of La  endee
-and interweeves with it a story of the most in-
tensely interesting kind. It surpasses in absorb-.
lag fascination any pages ever written.
-       The Palace of 10o..---...------------- 50
This is the latest, and, in the opinion of the0
arisian critics, the ve  ablest romance that Du-
mas has ever yet penn  . Certain it is, that a bet-.
o' romance hasn't appeared for many years.
dhe Orange Plumae; or, The Bride of the
Bauble------       --.---- ---------   5s0
An admirable ae. Teld with all the brilliancy
esit  wer that have made Dumas recognised as
las ise of Bomanoists.
A asw Book, by the Author of "The Romano
of a Poor Young Man."
Whoe Marehtoness i or, A Marriage by Will.
By Octave feu'llet ..-......-----       -S
rnthis Book, its gifted author has fasrass
hisword rnoned"PQorYoung Man.' It is
a doet brilliant picturethe intrigues and Arises
 that fair mistress of the Adriatic, where
-Her loved shrine se aated venes tns,
As apide rustseUaer ta oops.'
NOVELS BY LADY C.AR A CAVEDISE.
Who Woman of the World-----------5$0
Afaithful career of a Lady Gay Spanker style
tf woman, who allows nothing to stop her in -her
aeer of ftehionable folly and dissipakon in order
apin the necessary means to attain her ends.
isa    orthe Mesmerist's VietIns..--..      sO
One of th principal characters, Monti, uses or
r             ather abuses this wonderful faclyolade
som    but gatlespinotegrlint 1    poer o
., tkaarsiese ubertines.
e Divere.           of Pa heble y      . _ W_-e$
This tae is -founded upon one o! the darkest
ono that has ever di grate the highest
of English fashiopsble life.
{             hil ofreats,,a   nhhrl        aultithtis
pesetien of Lady Olu a's.
Pall1enstew*ar....-..--.------------ .
1andee e  notpaise it too rhigl.I   .
epasgsof thriln descriptions and hears.
r                y 8avendish's novels are elso issme i ineletb
r         , 1ssat      fta  -avolume.

Out of the Dept' -
Life--------------------------
A woman's story
the Depths" will int --
butit canadisgust no;.i. =a  Iv ?t
tender and delicate h
of which it treats 1
nature by the methe.-s
Almst a Hrot. ~                   .
This is one of the
p a r tic u la r  t h a t  h a s  a ;"  j.  - '
Florence DTalej
F ero y.B. St. John x;       -    .
Never have we re'
highly at i
The abote tran'tt  ' fir~"  'F-  rvsc
.loth, at ceantsa Irv
Uprry Berford;      ..         ' v  ;.7
-appi. By Jack}
The Pirate's Day      ca    . " . ,  .., a-
-A str of exciting  v      ..
of startling pictures, - -  -
ro interest isdl     .". - .' : v
pathos.
The Count's Nig             -
rango. This tas$  - : '_ ,.-   --   ;
Fanny Campbe~, -'            *
Fanny Capnbellu l
interesting character
ploiasurpassinhboldl -
gallant exploits ever Ft'
knowledged by all vi  =
best romantic histoi
ear Bevolutionary V     .
The Naval Omo                    -     A
Anautical tale, f   "
ventre. Incident to'43 *.  "
clue wave follows an;:
- Fanny Cam pbell,'
maeApresingto buy=
"hQueen of ~
Hunter's Beveags
This story, fraugk  ;. ; -"- "y-=w,'
impossblitas, has 'owov  .U   '..q/ lJ '1
alone who have rsad   -,  *    :
JS ussiain I81.      -
gasw Horse 5ost-. ~      ..
A eam atve ,s             c -y

FREDERIC A. BRADYS'CATALOGUE.s
BRADY'S CELEBRATED "MERCURY" STORIES.
$atil Sabberday; or the Idiot Spy.         A    Ribera. "He waited for she return of the asesa-
tale of the men and deeds of '76. By Ned Bunt-  sin. He had not long to wait. In &amp; very few
line. Illustrated with several full-page engravings minutes that individual came in and emptied out
by Darley. The attention of the reader is lcd to  the gold, upon the table which Pedio, the fishes
he days of the American Revolution, when deeds  man, had carried away, as well as oti er valuables
of great valor, and heroism were enacted. Saul  found upon the murdered scamp, who had d'eser
pretends to be an idiot, and by that means gains  edly met death just when he has consummated his
access to the enemy's camps an reports their do-  villainy andreceived his reward."  There are
log to American commanders. Saul -renders much  hundreds of very beautiful scenes end It'stouiod
service in those trying times, and was selected to  incidents in this book that only sh a writer
(carry inp; lligence to (en. Waslington ;mounting  Buntline could so elegantly portray. Price $0 21
the horse of the lamented Ethan Allen, he gal- Sea Waif ; or the Terror of the Ooast
!r ' to White Plains to the camp where Wash-  By Ned Buntline. Embellished with ten full page
was giving orders to his Aids. Saul rush-  illustrations by Darley. This interesting story
to the presence, and seeig the Commander-  opens at the commencement of our American
lief, shouted, " you are a man like other  Revolution with Sea Waif being engaged, by old
..Iis 1"  The chief hastily opened the dispatch  Phineas Cringle, as the Captain of the Tyranni
and a glad smile illumined his countenance. Saul  cide a privateer. In is first adventure he sinks
is then employed on perilous services which he  a British lop of War, which is escorting-some
faithfully executes to the perfect satisfaction o  half a dozen transports, and captures them all and
Washington, who rewards him. Saul finally mar-    a then insport, by   chptres oer
rie Luly the untutored child of Emathla, the  brings them into port, by which Cringle gets over
eadChiefofntueminolsbutnow the fully    andred thousand dollars pize money.    ea
developed and educated woman of civilized life, Brit makes the Tyrannicide the terror of the
Washington is present at the wedding and thanks  ritishers and after many adventures is taken
Saul in the name of a Free Country. rice $0 25  prisoner. Sea Waif has been picked up when
aetquite a child, by some fishermen off Nantucket
the White Wizard ; Or the Prophet               Shoals and is adopted by a hermit who names him
s 4  ,'t Seminoles. A tale of strange Mystery in  Edward Sea Waif, because he is a waif of the
the SemihNoth. ABtaed Btraneery Six sea. At the time he is found he floated ashore
theouth and North    By Ned Buntne. Six      on an old sea chest, wherein were a number of
full Sage engravings from designs by Darley. The  tides with crests upon them, which finally les
reeler's attention is called back a period of near- to his identification as Lord Francis Egerton. Af
ly forty years ago when Spanish pirates and      being released and exchanged he assumes his
American slavers infested our Southern coasts ;  position as a peer of the realm, comes back to the
when New York Merchants, some of whom now     land of freedom where he marries Kate, the
wallow in their gilded mansions in our fashionable  daughter of old Cringle and returns to England
streets, were engaged in fitting out vessels to    h        h old
catch ' black-birds," as well as "green ones."  with her. All the characters in this beautiful sto.
Wizard is a Caucasian, who is leaving  ry have happy lives and it finally winds up by
..    everybody being pleased and satisfied. Whoeves
childfsociear     they       ie an dapi    reads this story will most assuredly have their full
eats   ye1, which pour shot and canaster at the  money's worth. Price........ t........$Q  5
anall yht upon which is the White Wizard. A Mlan-of-Wars-Man's Grudge. By Ned
shell falls -.upon, .the wife and she is skilled.  Buntline. A romance of the Revolution. The
Through the iid of some kind fishermen he man-  chase-the fight-the baffled suitor-an alderman
ages to escape with his little yacht up one of the  of the olden time-the tory--love and duty-mi.
small rivers on the coast of Florida, where he falls tress and servant-boquet-tete-a-tete-enemy in
in with a band of Seminoles. After consultation  sight-Cora Bedford-crime and misery-fate of
he is accepted by them as thvir " medicine man"  war-surprise-cruise-love's stratagem- spy-
end is named Arpiaka the "White Medicine."    night scene in Philadelphia-fiend in human
They dig a grave for-his murdered wife beneath a  shape-welcome visitor-abduction-strange' It-
tall magnolia. He carved upon the tree, as he  terview - woman's kindness -- disclosure - cap-
sighed-"Lost, lost, forever!" one word-" IoNE."  ture-parole of honor-a viit-two villains-so.
In the morning, his hair, which was a glossy  cial dinner-storm at sea-fight-foiledand kill
brown, the night before, ha- been changed to a  ed-five beautiful engravings by Derley.
snowy white-             .Price.........rderers of my wife, seek my b. ............... $  25
tihy would ,ob me of my child !" said Arpiaka.  Stella  Delorme ;   or  the  Camanche's
"They l.ad better put their hand in the nest o  Dream. By, Ned Buntline. A wild and fanciful
the hooded Cobra than seek my white brother   story of savage life. Illustrated by six full page
among the Seminoles I" cried Chikika. " We    engravings in Darley's best style. The author of
will go half way to meet them l"  The child Ona  this Indian tale has been exceedingly prolific in
is stolen by one of the fishermen who turns trait-  his description of savage life as it is in our We..
or, and taken to Havana to Senor Ribera, who is  tern Wilds.  Tliis is one of the very interesting
authorized to pay ten thousand dollars for it. Ri-  stories that Buntline so well knows how to weave
bera employs an assassin to kill- the fisherman af-  that when once the reader begins to scan it -
ser h, departs from Ribera's house, and take half  ges he cannot leave it until he finishes ity  ng
the gold for his trouble and return the balance to -for every page is a new scene. Pri*J.
E- Copies of the above books sent to sny address in the United States, free of postage.
Send Cash orders to Frederic A. Brady. t'ubliske No.22 Anr Street. Ne w-York.

-I                    I

A

,t

-,.. Z        Ii
i;      k


  
             
         
       
   
