
    ----CITATION----
        Smith, J. N.. The Way of the World, or, Honesty the Best Policy .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7814
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The way of the world, or, Honesty the best policy 
            
                  THE WAY OF THE WORLD:  OR, HONESTY THE BEST POLICY. A TALE OF NEW ENGLAND AND NEW YORK. BY J. N. SMTH. DEDHAM: PRINTED BY COX & HUTCHNS. 1854.     PREFACE. IT is the purpose of the Author, in offering this volume to the public, to present one amongst numerous examples of this, perhaps, trit saying, - Honesty is the Best Policy It has been his object, in writing this, to prove that Honesty is the Best Policy, not only in producing pecuniary pros- perity, but also in producing that peace of mind, without which wealth has no attractions, and produces no -enjoy- mont. It has also been his primary desire to increase in the mind of the reader a love of those principles, the exercise of which distinguishes the upright man from  the immoral anj base. SOTTHr WAPoLB, 1854.    HONESTY THE BEST POLICY. CHAPTER I. '1.0, if there is one law above the rest, Written in wisdom - if there is a word That I would trace, as with a pen of fire, Upon the unsullied temper of a child- If there is any thing that keeps the mind Open to angel visits, and repels The ministry of ill- 't is human love." --ANON. / : CLARA STANDISH was the only child of respectable parents, whose residence was the village of R-----. She was indulged in the realization of many enjoy- ments, by parents who were attentive to her every want, and who frequently overstepped. the bounds of their limited means to gratify their daughter.' Her smile gladdened their hearts, as the genial rays of the morning sun gladden the creatures of earth that bask in their warmth and joy in their radiance. Her en-: joyment was their enjoyment; her pleasure was their pleasure; and' when she appeared regaling herself   6     THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, with the fruits of their industry, they experienced the happiest hours of their life. And when the hearty laugh came from her rosy lips; or when with a light bound she rushed to their embrace, and flinging her snow-white arms around their necks, revealed to them the varying circumstan- ces of a day's enjoyment, they thought their little daughter almost an angel, and furnished her every trifle that she desired for her gratification or amuse- ment. Happy were those parents in the possession of such a treasure; for scarcely could a misanthrope look upon that child, and not wish that such a being could be ever with him, to gladden his heart; that such smiles as that child bestowed upon her indulgent parents, might be lavished upon himself; and that such a gentle voice might ever fall upon his ears, as it would tend to render earth somewhat more than a semi-paradise. Yes! Clara Standish was indeed beautiful; and she was a being well worthy of a parent's love. She was such a being as we often form in our imagination, to share our pleasures and delight our hearts; such a being as we see when gentle slumbers steal over us, and when pleasant dreams throw a heavenly spell over our wearied spirits, and call up fairy forms of light and beauty to chase away the cares and sorrows of ]ife. She was such a being that, when once seen, the mem- ory of her charms and beauty becomes impressed upon the heart, never to be erased. "Mother," exclaimed Clara, one day, as she flung herself into her arms, "1Mr. Elmore says that I am beautiful; and see here, he has given me this string of beads. O, how pretty they are! :fook, mother! look!" exclaimed she, her eyes glistening with excitew   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.      7 ment. "Blue, red, white! -0, how pretty! And he t says, mother, that I must wear them on my neck, and love him and his son Willie. O, mother! are not these beads pretty?" and the happy girl flung the curls which nature had formed of her jet-black hair, from side to sideron her snow-white neck. "My daughter!" exclaimed the mother, as she pressed her to her bosom, , you are indeed beautiful- too fair for earth, I fear! O, my child! may death never deprive me of you! May trouble never clasp you in her cold and withering embrace! May you never feel the throbs of an aching heart! O, Clara! Clara! if you should be in trouble and: affliction, I should die!" "Weep not for me, mother," said the innocent J child. Thy tears fall on my bosom, and O, how fast they drop! Mr. Elmore said that I was Beautiful; I thought thfat it would please you. Mother, don't weep! do n't weep!" and her tears mingled with those of her parent, whilst they were locked in each ,other's arms. "Beauty," said Mrs. Standish, "cannot prevent mis- fortune. I weep not because you are lovely, but because I fear that thy fair form may be sullied by cares and disappointments, which, sooner or later, we all must expect to share. This is what makes me weep." "Don't weep for that, mother;" said the lovely child. "I never shall have any trouble; for papa and you will- get me every thing that I need, and Mr. Elmore gives me lots of things, and loves me, too; and he promises me every thing I ask him for. O, no, mother! f!e rnot trouble for me!"' "You know nothing," said Mrs. Standish,' of the ?         .     world. You know nothing of the disappointments and cares of life, in which, sooner or later, all must share. 'T is well that you are happy now, for soon the days will come, when time shall unfold to your view the realities of life." The mother and daughter separated from each other, each brooding over her own thoughts. The one was dreaming of joy; the other knowing by experience the uncertainty of pleasure or happiness. She knew, too truly, that disappointments are to be found in every pathway-of life; and although fragrant flowers yield us their exhilarating perfumes, as we first enter upon some untried path, yet too soon they wither, and thorns and briars beset us at every step. Before proceeding further in this narration, it will be necessary for us to become acquainted with the past life of Mr. Elmore., James Henry Elmore was a retired merchant. His father dyng when he was young, he was placed in a store in the City of Boston, as an errand boy. His guardian was-assured by the propri- etor, that' if he was faithful in the performance of his duties, he should be, promoted as soon as his qualifica- tions would- permit. Elmore was delighted with his new situation; to be a merchant's clerk was the highest pinnacle of, his ambition. To be even an errand boy, he thought, was an honor which placed him far above his school-mates and former equals. He entered upon the duties of his nrew situation with pleasure and alac- rity, and surprised even those who were accustomed to deal with prodigies. His leisure moments he employed to the best advantage; and by watching the movements X of the other clerks, he soon became familiar with the various prices of the goods. He improved every oppor- tunity to assist in selling and disposing of the goods,    HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.       9 until he -at length became somewhat distinguished as a salesman. Very soon after his arrival at the store, Mr. Benton, the proprietor of the establishment, was  confined to his house by sickness. After he had recov- ered his health sufficiently to attend upon his business, the first object that attracted his attention was' the great  improvement which Elmore had made during his con- finement; and he immediately employed another lad  for his errand boy, whilst he allowed Elmore to assist in his store. Young Elmore was delighted with this pro- motion; and by exerting himself to the utmost of his abilities, he sustained his situation with credit, and grad- ually initiated himself into the favor of his employer. As he became more acquainted with his employment, it became very evident that he was? naturally adapted to his new occupation ' and year after year, as his qualifi- cations increased, he was still further promoted, until at length he became foreman in the establishment. Soon after this event, the continued indisposition of Mr. Benton rendered it necessary that he should associate , some one with him in business. Elmore was the most     competent of any one of Benton's acquaintance, although Sp he possessed but little capital. Elmore accepted the ^"t invitation to associate with Mr. Benton; but soon after, he married an heiress, and became sole proprietor of the  establishment. I will -not weary. the patience of the reader, by considering the yearly prosperity or adversity of Elmore.  Suffice it to say, that after years of jappli- cation to his business, he amassed for himself a for- tune; and, after having erected and furnished an ele- gant mansion in   ----, he removed there with his family, to pass the evening of his days in pleasure -and retirement. Almost the first being that excited Wis attention, ,/   10    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR,  was Clara Standish. He saw her tripping along the streets, full of mirth, with his son William, and from the instant that he saw her she was his favorite. Her eyes sparkling with excitement, and her voice as soft as the sound of music in a summer's night, when, on the surface of some placid lake, we listen in ecsta. sies to its delightful cadence, attracted his attention. Mr. Elmore often sat her upon his knee, and for hours listened to her childish prattle; and often while he was teaching her to call him father, he thought that she would make a suitable companion for the heir of his fortune. He amused her by exhibiting to her the rooms and pictures in his mansion, and gratified her curiosity by describing to her the various shells and ornaments of his dwelling. He took pleasure in replying to all her questions and in explaining every subject on which she undertook to converse, in a manner which was perfectly intelligible to her. At parting, he loaded her with presents, and seemed best pleased when she was surrounded with his gifts, and whilst she was lauding their value. Mr. Elmore had never been a   penurious man, but had always been lavish of his wealth to every object of benevolence, or to gratify his own fancy or desires. But as there never had been a being who had taken such complete possession of his fancy before, so he now exercised no bounds to his liberality toward her and he endeavored, by using every means in his power, to win her love. He was: particularly successful in this, and daily, at the hour appointed, she was sure to arrive and pass an hour with him, after which she and Willie were companions for the rest of the day. From the arrival of Mr. Elmore at R--, William   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     " and Clara were always in each other's society. In the first days of Spring' together they ran' over the emerald lawns, and hand in hand they climbed the hills of the village. And when the birds began to chant their sweet music, their merry voices mingled with the warbler's song, and their language of in- nocence and purity was borne, united by gentle breezes,  to the portals of heaven. They were happy then - happy as two hearts could be in their youthful love. They were happy when they clambered up the steep places and sought for- birds' nests; and they were happy whenr they viewed the small spotted or blue eggs, and, leaving them, daily went to visit every nest they knew. And then -they watched the birdlets day by day, until they gained strength and flew away. And when the summer sun ' shone bright, and sinewy haymakers were mowing the tall grass, they delighted to spread it over the swathes, and watch it as it withered beneath the rays of a scorching sun. And when autumn came with her golden sheaves and mellow fruits, they would strip the husks from the long, bright ears of corn, and gather the largest rosy-cheeked apples, and preserve them for, their own particular use. And in the frosty winter, they would plod along together toward the merry school-room, at all times the one ever befriending the other from the rude jests and harsh words of the rudest . school-children. They were happy in continual enjoyment, and in a freedom from care. O, that those halcyon days oft youth might last forever! O, that man might never feel the weight of despondency, or the cares of an un- natural life! How delightful are' school-boy days! How full of joy - how full of pleasure! When friends t    *,   12    THE WAY oF THE WORLD: OR, are friends indeed; when a mother's arm can shield us from every care, and her smiles dispel every sor. row; when a brother or a sister acts as our guardian and protector; when joy rises in our hearts with the sun, and sets only till satiated with enjoyment, we invoke sleep to lull us in repose. Blessed are those early years of existence. Could the enjoyment of them return with second childhood, blessed would be imbecility and age. One day Clara was in trouble, for she saw that her father was sad and her mother was in tears. Soon they told her the cause of their grief. They told her that their home must be sold to paytheir debts, and that they must find a home elsewhere. This intelli- gence filled her heart with sorrow, but she cared much less for leaving her home. than she did from parting with Mr. Elmore and his son William. "' Mother," exclaimed Clara, " do not weep for this. We are all well, and might be happy, if you Would not weep.  I know we shall not lose our home; but, if we should, we all love one another so well, that we should be happy anywhere. O, mother, I cannot see you cry!', Her attempts to check  her mother's tears only brought more tears into the eyes of a fond parent, and on turning to her father she saw that his eyes were now flooded with tears. "Dear Clara," said her father, "you are our little angel. We should be happy anywhere if you were there and enjoying yourself. We will not weep more, unless It is for joy, when we remember that a kind Providence has given us a prize more precious than diamonds-a treasure more valuable than houses or land.    HONESTY THE, BEST POLICY.    13 It was a sad day for Mr. Standish, when- it was told him that he must obtain immediately the money that he had borrowed of a man by the name of Dutton. It was a time of great scarcity for money in that vi- cinity, and as there was, at any time, but a very few moneyed men in the village, it rendered Mr. Standish's situation still worse. There was not an individual who had a dollar to spare, even to prevent the great- sacrifice of property which must result from Dutton's placing an attachment on his property, and selling it under the hammer.  This Dutton had previously threatened to do; and Mr. Standish had traversed the town many times, in the vain attempt to obtain a sum amounting to the demands of Dutton. Standish well knew that Mr. Elmore-would furnish him withi the money, but as he had received numerous favors from his hands,'Xhe could not, obtain courage enough to ask him for the loari of that sum of money, although that sum would-save him from poverty and want. The real value of his property, he well knew, was upwards of four thousand dollars, and Dutton's de- mands against him were only two thousand; but as it was impossible for him to obtain the amount required, he distinctly saw that the home of his father would be wrenched out of his hands, that all his possessions would be sacrificed, and that he would become the- victim of an unfeeling extortioner, and penniless be thrust from his home, to solicit the uncertain protection of an unfriendly world. For himself he cared not so much as he did for his wife and daughter.  He could contend with the adverse winds of fortune; he could bear the chilling frowns of the wealthy and the aristo- cratic; but he could not endure the thought that his   "    THE WAY. OF THE WORLD: OR, angel daughter should know the meaning of the words, poverty and want.  "Papa," said Clara, after a few moments' medita- tion,' I know what it is best to do. Mr. Elmore always gives me everything I ask him for; I will apply to him, and I know that he will assist us." "Ask him not, my daughter," said Mr. Standish. It would be imposing a heavy burden upon him, I fear, to procure so large-a sum for us, and if I should re- quest it, he would consider himself obligated to procure the amount, even at a great sacrifice; therefore do not ask him for it." "I will not," said his daughter; "but I must go and inform Willie that I must soon leave him, per. haps never to return here again." Clara immediately caught her bonnet, and with a heavy heart sought her playmate and friend. She found him in the library with his father, but as soon as she saw them she burst into tears, and flinging her- self into Mr. Elmore's arms, she wept in convulsive sobs. "What is the matter with you, to-day, my little daughter?" said Mr. Elmore. Clara told him that they must soon lose their home, and that she would have to part with them, and wan. der, she knew not where. She told him that Dutton was'a going to ruin them, and then she would have no father Elmore'and no Willie. "No, my daughter," said Mr. Elmore, "never will I part with you, if gold can; purchase thy society. I casually heard a remark from Dutton, the other day, that he would soon compel your father to pay him. He also mentioned the amount of his demands against your father."   S HONESTY THE BEST 3OLICY.    15 Mr. Elmore then proceeded to his secretary, and : taking two thousand dollars from the drawer, he pre- A sented it to Clara. (' Here," said Mr. Elmore, " id:1ll the money which your father needs. Take it; it is thine own. I give it to you as freely as I plant these kisses upon thy cheeks. But twice this sum would I expend rather than witness one solitary tear dimming thy bright black eye. Think you that I would part from you, -and dispense with thy daily visits, if gold could pur- chase them? O, no! I value them too highly thus to part with them."       - "Father Elmore," said Clara, "I feel very thank- .  ful indeed for this money. Now I shall have the   - privilege of visiting you daily, as heretofore. May the time come when I shall have the privilege of recompensing you." "Go now," said Mr. Elmore, "to your father.  Give him this money, and that will relieve his dis- - tress. Then come to me again, and one hour of your  X presence will be well worth the amount which I have  I  now given you." ,1 -r.$  '? k    16    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, CHAPTER II.. "There is indeed one crowning joy, A pleasure that can never cloy - The bliss of doing good; And to it a reward is given, Most precious in the eyes of heaven - The tear of gratitude."- TUPPER. With a light heart Clara Standish left Mr. Elmore, and, accompanied by Willie, she directed her steps to- ward her home, and soon stood at the door of her father's residence. She was astonished to hear loud voices and harsh words, for she had never heard them before in her father's house. Whilst she had been gone, Dutton had arrived at the house for the purpose of making some arrangement for the immediate surrender of Standish's estate into his hands. If he would do so, Dutton had promised ? to allow him the sum of three hundred dollars for his property; but, if he would not accept of that sum, nor surrender him his estate, he threatened to com. mence legal proceedings against him immediately, He added also his advice, that it would be for his in- terest to accept of his terms, as there was not spare money enough' in the village to liquidate the debt; and in his inability to satisfy the law, the whole prop- erty must eventually fall into his hands. Mr. Standish had already, as before stated, solicited the assistance of his neighbors and kinsmen, but none A,   - -        }   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.-    17 of them were abe to assist him. He considered his case as nearly kihless, but the hope that something would occur to disappoint Dutton of his plunder, led him to crave-three days to consider the, subject in all its bearings, and give him his final decision. ' Not another hour," said his enemy. "Your note is in other hands before the sun sets to-night, unless I am satisfied." "I only ask," said Standish, "for three days, to see if that Being who has ever protected me from pestilence and the extortioner, will not now deliv- er me from thy power. For Heaven's sake, grant me three days!" "My dear husband," said Mrs. Standish, " trust in God. The Being who rules our destinies will not allow him to triumph over us, unless it will be for our  good. Perhaps we have merited his displeasure. If so, we should not repine at our fate, whatever it may be. If we have not merited his displeasure, or if it is not for the best that we suffer this affliction, He will rescue us from the power of our enemy. Again, I say, trust in God." "I will," said Mr. Standish. Then, turning to Dutton, he said, "Do your worst. It is my determina- tion never to surrender my property into your hands, unless reason forsakes me, or God deserts me. But why will you contend both against reason and heaven? Knowest thou not that the want and the suffering which you have occasioned the poor and the needy, the widow and the fatherless, are remembered by an All-wise Ruler of the universe, and one day, you as well as they, will receive your 'just deserts? There are two maxims which I have often seen confirmed, and never disproved. They are: It is better to suffer wrong than to do wrong; and, Honesty is the best 2   1 8   THE WAY OF THE WORLD:  OR, policy. I have seen those that wereeviled triumph over their tormentors. I have seen'  extortioner die regretting -his misdeeds, and forsaken both by God and man. I have seen the despised, the poor, and the humble, rise to wealth and honor; and I have seen the rich and the haughty sink into the depths of poverty and disgrace. Remember my words' Re- member them till your dying day, but believe them, and conform your life to them, before it is too late, and before God in his anger shall destroy you." At this moment Clara entered the room, and being astonished on witnessing the great excitement with which her father expressed himself, she concealed her hands underneath her apron, and stood trembling be- fore them, I did not come here," said Dutton, " to hear a dis' course upon morality. You have defied me, but remember that I advised you to act differentlyv. You shall repent your decision. You cannot obtain the money. This farm will yet be mine. But beg not mercy with me, for you will be pleading with a-a-'" * ":With a rascal," said Standish, interrupting him. "I will bear no more 'of your impudence," said Dutton. "I shall not come here again, until I come 'the owner of this house. Prepare for the worst." "Come to me, Clara, my protecting angel," said Mr. Standish. "Such language suits not my daugh' ter." Then turning to Dutton, he said,'"Begone! I'll hear no more from such an unjust man. Begone, until you can claim this house as your property." "You called that girl your protecting angel," said Dutton. "Perhaps she will save you now.  One thing I will-say, however, none have a fairer deity." Clara first realized her situation and responsibility,    HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     19 as she heard he ame last spoken by Dutton, and re" gaining her co ngence she proudly advanced toward him. "I am thankful to-day," said she, " that 1 am able to benefit my parents by any act of mine. Here, sir, is thy money," and she drew her hands from under her apron, and exhibited it to the gaze of, the aston- ished man. "Wretch, you stole it!" exclaimed Dutton, who now stood trembling with astonishment at being thus unexpectedly deprived of his long-wished-for posses"? sions. "Have I lived to hear my daughter called a thief, and that, too, in my own house?" said Standish. "Twice I have requested you -to leave this house; shall I repeat my command?" Dutton awaited not another invitation to leave, and turned to depart, saying that he could call and settle with Esquire Baker, any time that he chose. "I see," continued he,-" that you transact your busi-^ ness through children. It would be well if their. parent was possessed of a share of their energy." "And better yet," replied Mrs. Standish, " if every one transacted their business with childlike honesty and sirmplicity. "Stop!" said Mr. Standish, after having counted the money; "I have money enough to meet your de- mands." Datton returned, delivered his notes, and received his pay. Before we part," said Mr. Standish, "I would say a few more words to you. Wealth obtained in the manner that you have accumulated yours, will. prove a urse rather than a blessing. It is true that you roll in    20    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, luxury but your gold has been obtaine by oppressing the poor and the needy, and by improing every oppor- tunity to defraud either professed friends or foes. But the day will come, when the images of those beings whom you have defrauded and ruined, will appear be- fore you; and in the tones of thunder, they will speak to your soul. Then will an only son-reared beneath the very wings of crime and extortion - repay the debt of wrongs that hundreds owe you. Friends, whom you have injured, will revile you then-spectres will haunt you- and when Death, with his unwelcome dart, appears before you, then you will realize, if you do not before, that honesty and uprightness afford the only permanent enjoyment; and whilst all your wealth cannot purchase an hour of relief from the bitter stings of thy conscience, yet the beggar, in his dying hour, may enjoy that blessing for which you would freely sacrifice your all!" " Man!" exclaimed Dutton, "you are a regular gos- pel-grinder. I never patronize such people, for I never have leisure. My time is better employed. Good by!" As soon as Dutton departed, Mr. and Mrs. Standish fell upon their knees, and returned thanks to that Being who had thus wonderfully preserved them --to that Being who heareth prayer, and who hath said: "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." "O, let us praise God!" said Mrs. Standish, after they had risen from their orison. "Let us praise Him for our deliverance from destitution! Let us praise Him for His mighty works, and for His ktndness toward us- the most unworthy of all His creatures!" They then, for the first time, inquired of Clar r   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     2 where she had obtained the money; and when they ascertained that it was a gift, they were even more as- tonished than at first. After having again offered a prayer of thanksgiving to heaven, in which they sup- plicated blessings on the family of Mr. Elmore, Mr. Standish directed his steps toward the residence of El- more, and endeavored to induce him to accept his note, and take security for the money. s("I wish no return," said Elmore; "and I will not accept even a dollar from you. Thesociety of thy daughter is daily a source of gratification to me, and is worth all the favors that you may need at my hands. She is an angel, sent by Heavenrto smooth thy path- way through life- to strew thy path with flowers, and deck the dim vista of futurity with bright images from (he spirit land. You are wealthier than I; for in her you have a treasure that time, instead of marring its lustre, daily improves." "My daughter is lovely, it is true," said Mr. Stand- ish, as soon as his emotions would allow him to speak. "I feel proud of her, and hope that she may live long to render me happy; but I fail in words to express the, feelings of gratitude which rise in my heart and strug- gle for utterance. What can I do to add to your happiness? What can I do to enrich you? My for- tune, my life, my all, are at your service! Give me your orders! I will obey you!" "Be calm, my friend," said Elmore. "My posses- sions were given me by a bountiful God. He requires us to be benevolent and charitable. Would it have gratified you more had I taken security of you, ani deprived myself of that heavenly feeling which is universally the attendant upon all who practise deeds of benevolence? This feeling I value more than all I   22    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, possess, as it assures me I have right principles and correct views of life. This instant, I am happier with- out that sum, than he is who possesses it, in its enjoy- ment." "I beseech you, take some part of it, if you value my happiness!" said Standish. I gave it," said Elmore, "as freely as I would have given any of the slightest favors imaginable. But I am compelled to inform you, that if I hear the repeti- tion of this, I shall be offended." Mr.-Standish bowed his acquiescence to these last remarks, and immediately retired to his home,. free from debt. There were two happy families in R-- that night. I need not name them. )ne of them was not the family of Dutton. And William and Clara, as they loitered in the flower garden that afternoon, thought they had never seen so happy a day, although in the morning their eyes were filled with tears and their hearts were full of sorrow. "I'll be a man, by-and-by!" said Willie; "and I will go and earn some gold, and come and .pour it at your feet. Will youhot love me better then than you do now?" "No, Willie!" said she, "had you thousands to give me, I could not love you any better." "I saw how pleased you were," said hey "when father gave you that money this morning. I noticed that it dried your tears, and madeyou merry again," "'T was not the money that made me happy," said she. "- It was the thought that that money would en- able us to keep our home, so that we could play with each other, and that it would make father and mother happy. I hope always to have enough of it for my comfort and necessity, and do not wish for any more." comfort an          wi more.  \      '    ' j    . ^   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     23 During that long night, Mr. and Mrs. Standish closed not their eyes in sleep; but hourly and mo- mentarily, they returned their thanks to God, who had thus providentially saved them, through the instrumen- tality of their daughter, from ruin and beggary; and when the first rays of the morning sun gladdened th earth with its invigorating ,wartnth, renewedly the dedicated themselves to God and entered upon the duties of the day. We will now pass over days of happiness and years of youthful enjoyment and love. We pass them in silence, because little occurred to change the monotony of the scene or which would prove interesting to the reader.  Clara Standish was eighteen years old. The same beautiful form was there ; the same jet-black curls hung gracefully upon her neck; the same lustrous eyes were still the delight of Mr. Elmore; the same gentle voice was music to his soul. Humored and caressed although she had been ip her youthful years, she was far from being indifferent to the interests of others; and, although she was not;possessed with -a fortune to lavish upon the indigent, yet many a heart-broken and desolate being acknowledged heribounty, and many an- indigent family was indebted to her for the necessa- ries of life. She considered herself well compensated for her exertions in their behalf, in witnessing the tear of gratitude that dimmed their eyes, and in receiving the warm embrace of the sufferers, while the smile of pleasure lighted the wan cheeks, and the heart-felt expression, "God bless you!" came from their willing lips. Time,i with his magical hand, had also transformed William Elmore from a fair and ruddy boy to a youth   24    THE WAY OF THE WORLD.: OR, of manly form and beauty. He was the admired of all admirers, and distinguished alike for wealth, talents, and personal accomplishments. It was a wedding-day -and William Elmore and Clara Standish were one. They were happy beings; but they were happy only in each other's society4 From the earliest years of their recollection, they had been associates; the pleasure of the one had been the delight of the other; the disappointment of the one, the grief of the other; and each ever appeared most pleased when adding to the other's happiness. Every one -prophecied long life and happy days for this youth- ful couple; and life opened its portals wide, and spread before their prospective vision every luxury and en- joyment. The elder Elmore wept tears of joy when he ascer- tained that the professed favorite of his retirement had become his daughter, and that that being was indeed his child, to whom, years before, he had applied the name of daughter. He was rejoiced to think that he should enjoy her society in coming years, and that she would soothe the last moments of his life, in the exer- cise of that love which she had ever manifested toward him. Mr. and Mrs. Standish were delighted with 'the fu- ture prospects of their child. They thought that there was none worthy of her, excepting William Elmore. It was not because of his wealth and personal accom- plishments, that they prized him, but because that he possessed every qualification of an honest and upright man; because that he loved Clara and them, and would 'render her life happy and theirs comfortable. But the happiness of the Elmores was too great to last. The cup of their enjoyment was full, Soon was S J .                    * pi  r   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     25 that cup to be broken, and its delicious nectar, falling upon the earth, would produce daggers, whose points would pierce their bosoms and increase their distress. Like the ancient Polycrates, every thing added to their prosperity; like him, they attempted to appease the anger of the Eumenides, by voluntary sacrifices; anid, like him, their oblations were not accepted; for, as the fish returned the jewel of the former to his possession, so the benevolence of Elmore, instead of diminishing, added to his fortune. Their enjoyment felt no want, and nothing presaged coming sorrow. Two years have passed away since that wedding- day, and they were years of enjoyment. They were passed as pleasantly as a dream in a summer's night, and as blissfully as a M-oslem's tale of an Houri's exis- tence. Clara was seated in a happy home; a laugh- ing babe was in her arms, and hbr parents were beside her, conversing of the past and dreaming of the future. At her side was the companion of her life, and the being around whom all her hopes flustered. Clara," said her husband, " two years have passed since our wedding-day, and memory only proclaims their existence They have been years of happiness. There has been no discord; and it has been thus ever' since the propitious hour when first we-met. May we never see worse days than those we now enjoy! M[ay the clouds of sorrow and disappointment never shadow our horizon or dim the refulgence of our morning sun in its future course!"V  "God. grant that we may realize thy wishes!" said his wife. "But let us not fdrget, in our prosperity, the Giver of every enjoyment; and while we receive favors from His hands, let us, as heretofore, remember the poor and the needy- the heathen and the uncivil  , ,.   26    THE WAY OF THE WORLD   OR, ized- and give freely of our possessions for theii relief and civilization." O, futurity! it is well that thy pages are concealed from our view; else would our most pleasant days be rendered unhappy.        ,  In commencing the history of the misfortunes tha befell this family, it will be necessary for us to return again to the family of Dutton. Henry Dutton --the son of Dutton, the miser - the man who attempted thus unsuccessfully to ruin Standish - had formed, ir the days of his boyhood, a striking preference for Clara; and although the father had given the amorous youth several severe floggings for condescending to place his affections upon a person so much beneath him, as he termed it, yet itonly served to inflame his youthful fancy the more.  And although he was whipped at home and scorned by his lady-love, yet he did not despair of ultimate success. This boyish pas- sion increased with his years, and each additional neglect or effrontery which he received, only served to bind him still firmer with the fetters of love, or-to add fuel to the flames which enveloped him in ceaseless torment. After enduring the mortification of his situ- ation as long as-possible, he forced himself into her society, confessed his love, and was rejected. In vain did he proffer her the most costly jewels; in vain did he throw himself at her feet, and entreat her to accept him for a slave; in vain- did he assert that he should die if she continued to shun: him; for, after all his as- severations, he was rejected. He next attempted to obtain the sympathy of her parents; but in this e was equally unsuccessful; and, after having frequently wearied their patience by his importunities, he was forbidden again from entering their house. It.         t         ..   ,   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     27 Young Dutton had been educated to consider him- self a person of considerable consequence, on account of his wealth; and he; expected that every ohe of smaller fortune would be obedient to his wishes. It is unnecessary to say, that he was signally disappointed in this attempt to bring his opinions into practise. Thinking, however, that William Elmore was the only cause of his rejection, he was not discouraged from proceeding further in this undertaking; and so-, liciting an interview with Elmore, he offered him gold to abandon the object of their mutual devotion. The reply of Elmore was worthy of the man. "Whatever Clara  Standish is, there is not gold enough on earth to purchase her from me, if she may yet be mine." "Then, sir," said-Dutton, 'hear my curse: I swear by heaven and all its- powers, that I will ruin you and her! I loved her better than life, but she has discarded me. This instant is that-love transformed into the most deadly hatred. I care not for law, nor gold, nor life - each and all will I sacrifice to glut my revenge."  "Calmly, my fried, calmly," said Elmore - "you will think better of this, presently; but if you choose to attack me, I am prepared to receive you now, or at any other time, which will better serve your pleasure." "Remember, remember we are foes, now and for- ever,"rsaid Dutton, as he disappeaied round the corner of the house, and left Elmore meditating upon the best method to conciliate his enemy. Elmore's thoughts were not of the most pleasant description. To have an enemy in any person, even the weakest or least civilized of mankind, is not at all desirable; but to have that professed enemy a person of-   28    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, wealth, distinguished for his shrewdness and dexterity, renders the situation still worse. Elmore thought that Dutton dare not boldly attack him, but expected that in the darkness of the night he would pounce upon him as a panther upon his prey.,. He endeavored to make every exertion possible to conciliate him, and to prevent any unpleasant occurrence. Great was his astonishment, however, when, on meeting Dutton, he appeared as if nothing had transpired to mar the friendship which had ever existed between thein. He joked with him as usual, and at parting condescended to apologize for his late expressions of enmity, by say- ing that Miss Standish's beauty was sufficient to ruin an angel, and being rejected, to transform him into a fiend. Elmore was satisfied with this apology, and consid- ering his curse only a sudden burst of passion, he soon nearly forgot it. Far different from this were the feel- ings of Dutton. He was destitute of courage suffi- cient to attack an enemy openly, and he determined to effect' by stratagem what he could not do by force. He therefore surrendered a prize which he knew it would be useless to attempt to obtain, and, satisfied his revenge by forming deep plans for the destruction of both families. The character of Dutton was such that I hesitate to describe it. He was treacherous -to his best friends; at enmity with his only surviving parent . he was a gambler, a cheat, and a knave. With such a recom- mendation before us, it is necessary only to add, that he established a lasting friendship with the brandy bottle; that he was skilled in no profession ibut gambling, and chose his acquaintances accordingly. But he managed to conceal his conduct from the view It,    .   - t    HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     29 of the world. Throughout the town he was known, as his father had been before him, as the incarnation of every miserly attribute, amalgamated together to ruin the unwary, and distress the widow and the fatherless. The first principles which young Dutton 1 ad instilled into his mind, were the art of defrauding his neighbors, and deceiving his friends. Had he been early educated in the principles of honesty, lie would have been a different being. But now he com- menced business in the advanced state of moral turpi- tude which his father' had only attained- after years of oppression, and what the finale of his career would be was a subject of conjecture. The accomplice and suitable companion of this man was James Godbold- a man different from Dutton in every respect that two villains could differ from each other. He was free of his possessions, even to a fault; gentlemanly in appearance, and an universal favorite in any society in which he chose to associate. His resemblance to Dutton consisted in his being a gambler and a votary of Bacchus. Godbold found but little difficulty in pressing him- self into the society of Elmore, and by associating with him in his amusements, he soon began to exert a powerful influence over him, which eventually led him into the paths of vice.  / "Come, Elmore," said Godbold one day, "time is a burden on me, to-day; let us tass an hour or two in cards, merely for amusement." "Your pleasure is mine," said Elmore. "I have nothing of consequence on my mind, to-day." "It will do us good," said Godbold. It will afford a relief *om vthe dullness and monotony of life. I never was made for a store. The regular routine of ,  .             ..   30    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, fashionable life is hardly supportable; if there was no way to get behind the curtain, I should die of ennui. These' trifling peccadilloes, such as playing cards, gambling, drinking and the like, the world stumble over, but do worse themselves.' Here, friend, is some of the best wine the State affords. I'll drink your health." Elmore having imitated the example of his com- panion, in taking a glass of the sparkling wine of Champagne, next proceeded for further excitement to cards, and occasionally drinking to keep company with his companion. The hours flew swiftly away, and before he was well aware of it, night had hung her sable curtains over earth, and warned Elmore of his absence from his "sweet, sweet home." "'T is night," said Elmore, rising abruptly. "I must away! I had not thought of remaining so long, but your entertainment was good, your company was better, and your wine best of all: Good night!" From that time, Elmore was frequently induced by Godbold to pass a few hours as above described; and, imperceptibly to him, the habits of intemperance and the desire for- excitement began to grow upon him, until at length he began to regret that their revels came not oftener, although they appointed four per week. Their companions in these revels were Dutton and Eaton. At a meeting of these individuals, held at Eaton's, the idea was first advanced to stake a few dollars, just to add to the excitement. ' Of course, Elmore will win," said Godbold. "Fortune favors him in every thing. I wish I could find some of the crumbs from under her table, after he   U   oo .HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     31 had taken his share. You would have been a happy man, Dutton, had it not been for Elmore." "No insinuations, gentleman!" said Dutton; "I' wont submit to them. They say that the devil is the luckiest man in the crowd. If so, Elmore will not win in this company." They all gave their consent to stake a few-dollars, although Elmore gave his rather reluctantly. That game was played; then another; and then they con- tinued until it was two okclock before they retired to their homes. Elmore had never before, since his marriage, remained out until so late an hour, and he knew that his wife would be troubled about him. His evenings had, until very recently, been passed at home, and' at their previous meetings they had retired at an early hour; consequently the plea of business had always been a sufficient excuse, although his wife sometimes had her misgivings in regard to the nature of the business which thus recently robbed her of so large a portion of her husband's time'. Elmore left that house that night, deeply,regretting that he had taken the first step toward a life of inter- perance. He was a gambler- he knew it all--and although he was much under the influence of intoxi. eating drink, yet the highest emotions of a virtuous life struggled in his heart to induce him to abandon the cup and the gambling-table. Worlds would he have given that night, to have gone into the presence of his wife and family, free from two of the most despicable habits, which are the most prolific in pro- ducing human misery and wretchedness.  Worlds would he have given, to have freed himself from the influence -of that poisoned cup, whose charms have lured the noblest of our race, and whose poisons have   82    THE WAY OF THE WORLD  OR, broken hundreds and thousands of hearts, and mad beggars of some of the noblest, loveliest beings wh have borne the image of God. That was a long night for Clara Elmore, an anxiously did she walk the house, and times innumere ble did she gaze down the road for her absent husbant Then she would fly from one room to another; an each moment gaze out of some window into every pat] and by-way which her husband could possibly take and then she would strain her eyes to peer throug. the darkness, until her sight would fail her and he head swinl, and she would fall senseless upon the floor. Then she would recover from her swoon, and striking her head in the most intense excitement, sh would exclaim, "i He's dead, he's dead, he's dead! Then she would rush out of the house, and down the road toward his store, expecting every moment to fin( him prostrated upon the ground, in the last'agonies c death. At one time she would think that she ha( found him, and falling upon her knees to clasp him ii her arms, she would grasp a stone or a fallen tree She was making her last sally before arousing thE neighbors to assist her in the search, when she espie( his form moving toward her. She ran violently to ward him, and throwing her arms around his neck gave vent to her feelings in tears and hysteric sobs. "Dear Clara!" said he, "what is the matter?" "I thought you was dead! Where, O where have you been, to leave me in distress until this late hour ' "I have been in company with some friends, and having become very much interested in their conver. sation, the hours flew away faster than we were aware. I hope that you will forgive me -for leaving you until this hour." . r                  f   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    33 "May I ask who those friends were?" "Godbold, Duttoin, and Eaton," he replied. "Are these your friends, or my friends?" resumed Clara. "O, William! I fear that all is not right.. I know not what to fear, yet I believe that there is some- thing which is about to crush us; for yester-night I had a dream, in which I saw foul demons, black as night, hovering o'er thy head, and with sharp daggers they strove to pierce thee through. I heard thee scream, and rushed to thy embrace, and flung my arms around thee, and they harmed thee not, but howling and cursing, moved away. But soon they came-again, and with a silver cup, which glistened in the light of the rising sun, they enticed thee from my bosom; and then I saw thee take the cup, and laugh at the prize they gave you, and turning to show it to me, they struck their daggers to thy heart. I heard thee cry, but could not save you, for they had attacked me. O, how frightful were their looks! how hideous were their eyes! how madly they gazed on me! And then they cut me with their weapons, and my children they caught in their long, bony arms. I saw not, heard not more; but O, William! stay, stay with me, and they will not harm thee! This dream is not all a dream, Will you not stay with me?" "Dear Clara!" said her husband, while the tear- drops fell upon her neck, "I'll stay with thee. You are an angel of light, sent by heaven to lead me from paths of vice and to guide me in those of virtue. It is strange that I went from under thy protecting wings this night. I will not leave you more. What penance shall I suffer for leaving you to-night?" She answered with a kiss, and rainbow hopes again   - 34    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, found their appropriate home in a happy heart, for he had resolved never again to touch the accursed cup, o0 to stake his gold again to be lost or won at a gambling table. qr *                 I("  !   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     35 CHAPTER III. ( Stay, mortal! stay! nor heedless thus Thy sure destruction seal!  Within that cup there lurks a curse, i '       Which all who drink must feel!" The night that Elmore and young Dautton spent at Eaton's, was the last night that the elder Dutton ever passed upon earth. Earnestly did he entreat his son X;i to remain with him that night, and soothe his pain' with kind words and deeds of love. But no; that man who had crushed the hearts and ruined the prospects of hundreds, now lay dying, without a friendly hand to administer to his wants. He who never exercised benevolence or compassion, now suffered in his dying moments for that solace which even the beggar fre- quently receives. He would freely have given all his gold and treasures for one friend to stand by his bedside, and speak one word of love, or give him one hope of heaven. "My son! my only son!" said the dying man, "stay with me this night, for I am about to die. No morrow's sun shall ever shine on me! O, for heaven's sake, stay with me this night!" "O, ho! old fellow! you're notional!" said the son. "I am going to raise the devil with Elmore to-night; gj so I could'nt stay with you, even if you was dying. It will make no difference, a thousand years from now, whether you died on a bed of roses, or unattended on   36    THE TAY OF THE WORLD: OR, that old bundle of rags, or whether you lived thirty years longer or not. But do n't look so devilish sober about it, but meet his satanic majesty with a smiling face!" "O, Henry! I have not lived as I wish I had, now I come to die. I almost fancied that death would never call for me, and I wronged the widow and oppressed the poor. O, heaven! forgive my misdeeds! O, God! hear the prayer of him who never was merciful, and pardon me in this my last hour! All my treasures would I give to purchase peace of mind in such an hour as this! My son, follow not in the steps of thy father; but remember, in all thy dealings, that Honesty -is the Best Policy. Those words of Standish yet ring in my ears, and they are true. Here I lie, the most miserable of beings, cursed by God, forsaken by friends, and despised by an only child. Send for a clergyman, that I may hear one prayer before I die." "No, it is too late to preach to me now!" said the son; " and I'll be hanged if ever I send for one of your whining, prattling, Lord-have-mercy-on-us sort of men, even if it would save your life. I do n't see as I can help you any way to-night, daddy. Good by." After saying these words, the father's only hope left the room, with a hearty laugh. He descended the stairs, and told the housekeeper " to Jet the old fellow alone, for he was well enough," and he forbid her attending him. It was the midnight hour. All nature was still, but the heavy breathings and groans of the dying man dis- turbed the slumbers of the housekeeper, and caused her to start and tremble as she thought that he might pos- sibly be near his end. She arose and dressed herself, and entered his room.  !  *  /  - -  - '  "  -           ' ,   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     37 "You have come, at last," said Dutton. "Your son forbid my entering your room, three days ago," said the housekeeper. "I have disobeyed his orders to serve you. What shall I do for you?" "I wish to see the clergyman." The housekeeper made no reply, but quick as thought she left the room, and in a few moments the village pastor stood by his bedside. "Sir, have you any thing to reveal to me?" said he. I stand upon the verge of time; and in a few hours more I shall be in eternity! My life has been passed in sinning against my Maker and my fellow-men! In  that box-there are notes to the value of ten thousand dollars. You know who have suffered most by my extortion. Take that, and relieve their distresses. 1ii  Tell my son I forgive him; but tell him to beware of an end like mine. Will you pray with me now?" ' he man of God knelt beside the bed, a^id fervently -prayed for the dying man and his hard-hearted son. The tears rolled down the furrowed cheeks of Dutton, as he listened-to the words of the divine; and as the last word sounded on the ear, one gurgling groan told them that Henry Dutton was no more. The son returned home about three o'clock that morning; and appeared not in the least affected on account of his father's death. He immediately sat down and wrote a note to the clergyman, requesting the return of the notes given him by his father, and informed him that unless they were speedily returned, he should commence legal proceedings against-him. The notes were returned, accompanied with a letter from thelpastor, in which he gave some excellent ad- vice. In concluding our remarks upon the elder Dutton,   I  88     THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, it would be well, perhaps, to observe, that 'during the last few years of his life, he had been shamefully abused by an ungrateful son, who wilfully inflicted upon him every abuse and insult in his power. He then discovered, when it was too late, the amount of the wrongs which he had done others, and sighed in vain for the power to benefit the molt needy of his vic- tims. His son held the reins in his own hands, and the benevolent wishes of the father perished with him, without proving a benefit to any of his victims. The death of the father, likewise, produced no salutary effect upon the son, who appeared- alike regardless of reputation or reproof.    The character of Dutton became more generally known about this time, and many were the individuals whom. he had induced to take the first step toward intemperance, and then had led them on in ethe road to certain destruction. There seemed to exist an innate desire in him to ruin every one around him; and penniless mothers soon, began to know to whom they were indebted for their degradation. Godbold also suffered severely by the various rumors of the day; but when' he was questioned as to his character, he would reply that one-half of the world would believe any slander; and if the slandered indi- vidual attempted to remove the stain bydenying it, -the whole world would believe it. He therefore re- mained silent, and allowed other people to conjecture what they chose. Elmore kept the -promise which he internally had formed, to abandon the meetings of the club, and I pass his evenings at home in the society-of his wife and children, who exerted themselves to render his evenings pleasant and his home happy. The most ;; - ' *^' 'k-       HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     39 entertaining and instructive books were purchased for his leisure, and the luxuries of earth were found upon his table. Elmore was frequently ridiculed by the members of the club, on account of his abandoning them, but he only remarked, that home :furnished the greatest attraction for him at present. "I know," said Godbold, "that your beautiful wife is indeed sufficient to induce you to abandon the oci- ety of your friends; but, mark my words, if you pass so much of your time at home, it will prove the ruina- tion of you. You are secluded from society by your own choice. ' You will become a hypochondriac- nervous and sick. Even though your associates are inferior to you - as I will admit that I. am- yet I flatter myself that our weekly meetings would prove a source of immense benefit to you." "I will not brook advice in this matter," said El- I more. "Go where you please; I shall do the same." H"Do n't be offended," replied the other. "I meant no harm. If it is not your pleasure to associate with {   us, perhaps you will favor me with the privilege of taking a glass of brandy with you." l"I shall be ever happy to gratify you," was the re- ply. Elmore often received calls from Godbold, Dutton and others, and by taking a social glass with them, he formed a habit which is much easier formed than abandoned. At length he would seek their society for the ostensible purpose of passing an hour in conversa- tion, but in reality to gratify an increasing appetite for that drink which destroys both reason and life. At first he felt a better moving power in his heart, which  told him, i, Touch not the cup!" but the artifices of Button and Godbold soon succeeded in drowning 'every   40     THE WAY- OF THE WORLD: OR, good resolution, and every prompting of a rations heart. Dutton saw with pleasure Elmore's increasing ap petite for intoxicating drink, and well he knew that h would soon- become their companion at the gamblinI table. He was not disappointed. Day by day El more became more and more a disciple of Bacchus and found himself becoming more attached to Dutto] and his associates. His business began to be neglected, and he passer his time mostly with those who sought his ruin, ant at length he staked his dollars upon the gambling tabl to gratify his friends. Step by step he passed down wardin his career of dissipation. Daily his busines suffered,greater neglect, until he passed nearly all hi time in carousals and gambling. The quivering frame the bloated, loathsome form, disclosed his habits in ; bolder and more intelligible ma nner than words coul do. To an affectionate wife they spoke also of blighted hopes, and prospects - darkened by disappointment they spoke of tears shed in the midnight hour; the  spoke' of protracted vigils, of cares, of troubles, an( thousands of the like attendants on a drunkard's home Frequently did she plead with him to abandon a life o intemperance, and again and again she entreated hin to pause and consider the fearful doom which awaitec him. 't William," said she one day, " beware of the spark ling wine! Beware of the drunkard's bowl! Beware of the men who have attempted to ruin you, an( of that man who swore thy destruction! O, Wil liam, William! what are you thinking of? Look ii this glass. Where is thy fair form? Where is th] manly bearing? Where is thy bright beaming eye and thy elastic step? Gone! gone! Shall I tell yo!   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     41 X:  the cause of this? No, it is unnecessary; for well you know that intemperance has done this. You know that the midnight reve has traced those lines on thy forehead. You know that the bowl has enticed you from a happy home, and the society of thy wife and children. Where, O where, is thy recompense? Is it in an empty purse, or in dilapidated walls? Or is it in a haggard wife and neglected children? Is it in curses which have taken the place of prayers and thanksgiving, or in a neglected family altar'? O, Wil- liam, pause before it becomes too late to retrace thy steps. Pause before you bring ruin upon thyself and family, and disgrace and death uponl thyself. Pause, for the sake of those -beings God has intrusted to thy care, if you will not for thyself. But if you continue in your present-.course, your children will become in- mates of the almshouse, your thousands will be squan- dered, and your wife will become a beggar. I have warned you of your true situation; why will you not heed my admonitions?"  "Most assuredly, Clara," said her husband, you would make an excellent temperance lecturer. I will invite my friends here some night, and I shall expect that you will entertain them with another just such an harangue. Perhaps it may be the means of reforming some of those wicked spirits. I promise you an oppor- tunity to display your talents, anyhow." "Is this all the thanks which I receive for my de- votion to you? Is this the only reward which I receive for my tears and suffering? I have no words Opr such men as Dutton and your associates; they are incorri- gible. But my thoughts, my affections, my all, cluster around you. Shall I not save you?" "Woman!" said the husband, "I have followed   42  .  'THE WAY OF THE WORtD: OR, your beck long enough. I now am free--free to a( as I please-and I will not bear restraint. Let m not have occasion to repeat these remarks, for if I ar compelled to repeat them, the language used will nc be of the most flattering description. But no, I nee not address you thus. Cheer up and be merry, an enjoy life while you may." "Should we be cheerful when We are rapidly ap proaching the fatal cataract? Should we laugh in th face of danger, and madly rush to its embrace? Should we destroy our reason by pouring down liquid fire to consume our vitals, and then, laughing at our'own folly madly perish?" "Woman, I 'll thank-you to hold your tongue," sai( the husband. "I won't hear such nonsense ever time I come into the house, and if you utter more 'I 'll - I 'll - - " Mrs. Elmore could hear no more, for her heart wa, full, almost to bursting. Tears came to her relief4 bu -her husband angrily caught up his hat, and rushec again to his haunts of sin and degradation. For hour; Mrs. Elmore moved not from her position, but motion less she sat, iaeditating upon her melancholy situation She thought of the great difference which a few years had occasioned in her situation. Then all was light; now all was darkness. She was aroused from her reverie by hearing harsh words in her father-in-law's apartment, and gradually raising her head, she dis. tinctly heard the words, " a forgery." "Well,"said the other, "if it is a forgery, thy son William is the person who executed it. You can settle this or not; the- law will gratify my revenge, if you are disinclined to." W^   That voice was the voice of Henry Dutton, and toq   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     43 well they all knew that they were now realizing the effects of his curse. I said all knew it -but no, that husband knew it not, or if he knew it, he did not realm ize it. "Ten thousand dollars," said the elder Elmore. ", Here is that amount; take it and begone." ( It would be well," said Dutton, "for you to conde- scend to bestow upon me your blandest smiles, and your most graceful attentions. Some day you may need my benevolence, and beg for my favors." "No; I 'll die for the want of bread, before I raise a finger tro ask or accept a favor from a miser, an ex- tortioner, a drunkard, and a gambler! You are the worthiest candidate for the gallows that ever I knew, and will be sureto die ,there, unless some honorable man performs the worthy deed of relieving the earth of a curse. But I had rather suffer this wrong than be the person who has defrauded me. Wealth obtained in this manner cannot produce anything but sorrow and misery to him -who possesses it. Honesty is the best policy, and the extortioner and the unjust must bear the weight of their own sins and iniquities." "Tacl not to me of honesty," soliloquised Dutton after he had left Mr. Elmore. "He's a fool that is an honest man now-a-days. His principles are all worn out. Everybody cheats, lies or steals, these times; but I am resolved to carry on- all parts, and make the world tremble beneath my feet. Honesty! ha! ha,! he is the victim of my dishonesty, and -the grapes are sour." Just at this moment he happened to think of his dying father, and his last years of repentance, and he then thought that it would be- a good thing to re- form before old age come upon him. "' But not," he added, "until Clara Elmore is in my power."   "    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, That night was a sad night to the family of Elmoi In agony the father walked the house, until the arriv of the son. In tears that wife sat, scarcely conscio of existence, whilst her lovely children were crowdii around her, begging their mother to confide her troub to them. It was the midnight hour before the husband wt seen staggering toward the house, in a state i beastly intoxication. He replied to the interrogations of his father, "Thr he d--d-d--did it, but c--c-could n't get alon without it a--a-anyhow." No more was said to him that night, but in th morning his father entered his room, and thus ac dressed him: "'My son, I have a few words to say 1 you while you are in the possession of your senses - while you are free from the influence of intoxicatin drink. These are the last wor1s that ever I sha speak to you, for you have broken my heart. But wish that I had died before my only son had become drunkard and gambler, and before my gold was force from me by a villain! But let me entreat of you not t stake the fortune which I leave you at my death, upo the gambling-table. Why will you suffer that dear ange of a wife to weep for thy misdeeds? Where i4th love which you once professed for her? Where is th love that once you manifested for me and thy mother It is gone! And the bottle and the card-table nov occupy those places in thy affections formerly occupie( by us; and men, unworthy to bear the names of men are thy companions. You have sinned; but I freeB forgive you, if in the future you will prove to the worli that you heed my dying instructions. Hear me, Wil 4 ;' - -  \ ,  \   ' HONiESTY THE BEST POLICY.    45 liam! Beware of the cup! Beware of the gambling- table! Beware of those who wish for thy destruction!" He uttered,one shriek-- it was the wail of a broken heart -and prostrate fell upon the floor. Physicians were called to his assistance, and soon succeeded in restoring him to consciousness; but their efforts proved of no further advantage. Hourly the  physicians visited him, and administered still more powerful medicines to assuage the fever which raged in all its fury.  i "My daughter," said Mr. Elmore, "this night I wish you to dismiss all your servants from the room, and watch with me. I wish to talk with you." "I will obey your request with pleasure," replied Clara. It was midnight. Night had thrown her sable man- tie over the earth; but a darker, deeper pall shrouded the hearts of the sick man and his watcher. The winds howled fearfully, and the large drops of rain were beating against the half-closed shutters. Again the wind blew yet fiercer, and At every gust the timbers of the house creaked and bent beneath the wrath of the mighty tempest. The vivid lightning swept across the sky, and the harsh thunder rolled over their heads. Clara saw it not; she heard not the thunder's roll, for she was bent over the unconscious form of a dear parent. In a few moments the storm ceased; the boisterous winds died away in a faint echo; and the argent moon shone brightly on the pallid features of the sick man. Slowly his pale cheeks brightened; as the mild light of. the goddess of- the night rested upon his features; his eyelids gradually opened, and he gazed for a few moments around the room. Then gathering strength, after a few ineffectual attempts, he said: ( Come to j      -              .4  "   "   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, -y embrace, my daughter, as you were wont to .do, when, years ago, I loved thee. Kiss my fevered cheeks once more, that I may know that you love me still, and that I may die in thy embrace!" " Speak not so, dear parent. You may yet recover, O, father! I cannot have you die.!" and her tears fell upon his cheeks. "Weep not for me," said the dying man. "I soon shall be at rest. My life has been passed in perform- ing deeds of benevolence and charity, and in worship- ing the most High God I I die in the full assurance that soon I shall be with Him in Heaven, and form one of that happy number who shout the praises of redeeming love. Rejoice with me, that so soon I am to be relieved from trouble. But, O, my daughter! I fear that yours is but just commenced. I fear that your husband will prove a sot; I fear that all our wealth will be extorted from him by Dutton; I fear that you will yet be reduced to beggary. But never become disheartened. He is above those who seek his ruin; and after they have won his wealth, they will forsake him. Then the principles which have been implanted in his youthful mind will force themselves upon his attention, and produce his reform. Dutton and Godbold are the most insidious villains that I ever knew: They deceive the wary; they have rifined professed children of God. It is nearly impossible for any human being-to withstand their alluring argu- ments, or to tear themselves away from the charms with which they lure their victims. But remember my words: He yet will reform, and you will yet be happy!" "And I hope that you will live to enjoy those happy days "   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     47- "No, daughter! no!" replied he., "I feel as if I  had done with earth. May a/just God bless you and  yours! O, I am happy! Angels surround us now, and wait to bear my wearied spirit to its heavenly home. Can you not see them?   Can you not hear their gentle voices? Nearer they come! They beckon me away! One kiss, and then farewell!" He made an effort to meet the caresses of his daughter; then sank back upon his pillow, and gently breathed his last. i' Sudden and unexpected was the death of Mr.  Elmore to a large circle of friends and neighbors. He  was beloved by his neighbors, respected and honored by the public, and distinguished for his deeds of benev- olence. No beggar had ever-gone from his door with- . out receiving assistance; no object of charity had ever  been presented for his consideration, without receiving  a token from his bouiLy ; no youth, destitute of funds  necessary for his business, or to obtain an education, ever was refused the assistance which he desired. In  consideration of these things, many were the tears that  were shed when his death was known. Much different was the feeling manifested on this occasion from that manifested on the death of Dutton. The one was  despised for his meanness; the other was lauded for his generosity, and was followed to his grave by sin- cere and attentive mourners; while the death of Dut-  ton was not regretted even by an only son. Both will long be remembered by the citizens of R---; the one as the cause of misery and wretchedness -the other  as the friend of the needy. The sudden death of Elmore was the death of his  long-loved companion, who survived him seven days. They were days which possessed the duration of years   -,. '                ,'  ' '-: -?   48    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, in her imagination; and then she sought him in a ! spirit-land. They are angels now; they wear crowns  formed for no earthly brow.            i His death had a transient effect upon a profligate i son. His wife improved every moment in attempting : to eradicate the seeds of vice from his bosom. She X pictured to him the former happiness of their home, and contrasted it with their present situation. She directed  his attention to that Being who rejoices to witness the ' prodigal's eturn, and whose spirits are ever admonish-  ing the erring of the evil of their ways. Again they  all bowed around the family altar; again the tears of  penitence were shed; and again the star of hope shone bright in their illusive sky. \   L * - '   , Il HONESTY THEE BEST POLICY..     49 CHAPTER IV.- rs Lo! where the three-fold demon stalks along, The work of desolation to prolong; Envy, and hate, and malice, all combined, To make afflictions and torment mankind. Forward the demon strides in sullen mood, And chews a viper for her daily food." - HOLMES. The enmity of Dutton toward Elmore would -not allow him to rest from his attack, even to allow Elmore to mourn for the, death of his father. His visits of condolence were frequent; ahnd partly by flattery, but -mostly by force, he compelled him to leave the quiet of home, and pass his days of mourning amid scenes of revelry and mirth. For a few days, he withstood .  the tempter, and passed his leisure hours with his wife and children. But nothing could discourage Dutton. He met him 4ir the streets, and ridiculed him for his temperance principles. He placed the cup to his lips, and endeavored to force one glass into a stomach that, after receiving that, would not be satisfied unless it was glutted with the stimulant. He daily told him of his altered appearance. He told him that he would soon die, unless he became more social. He joked, threatened, ridiculed and challenged him. It was of no use. At length, Dutton, Godbold and Eaton at- tacked him, and poured a glass of his favorite wine, literally speaking, down his throat. He rose from his knees, and complimented them  for their conduct by [ -,^   ^ 50    THE WAY OF  ItHE WORLD: OR,      I taking another. glass, and then another, and then another; until at length the gambling-table was again ! resorted to, and a sad and almost heart-broken wife, at  two o'clock in the morning, led him into the house in  a state of insensibility. Night after night passed in ; this manner. In the morning he would make vows of reformation, to be broken before the sun reached his  meridian; and iefore he again beheld his affectionate wife, he would not know whether he had a wife or children, friends or relatives, or not. Arising in the morning, he would again make promises of amend- ment-again would he be entrapped by Dutton- again would he disappoint his wife- unti at last she was as sure that his promises would be broken as he was to make them. It was always his firs saying in the morning: "Well, I believe spirit is killing me; and I will never taste of another dropasglong as I live  Is n't that a good resolution, Clara?V' -At'first, his wife applauded his resolution, and en- treated him to keep it; at length, she expressed her opinion that it was a better resolution than it would be a performance; at last, her only reply was a sigh or a silent prayer to heaven for aid and strength to bear up  ut?:under her affliction.  The death of Eaton's elder brother, about this time, appeared not to affect the survivors in the least. Eaton wagone of Dutton's victims, and died of delirium tre. mens. He was found but a few steps from his own door, about two o'clock in the morning, calling for water, and declaring that his was a case of spontaneous combustion. His continued cries were ,heart-rending. At one moment, he would cry, "Water! water! water! Put me out! put me out!"The next instant, he would point to spectres that haunted him, and cringe   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     51 from their gaze; and then he would tell them that his brain was on fire, and his vitals were almost consumed. He was taken to his home, where he lingered for a few hours, and expired. These are thy doings, self-de- stroying Alcohol! That was a lucky affair," said button to Elmore, one day; " your father's death, I mean. It has saved him the trouble of cashing two or three notes of the same sort as the one I troubled him with; and it has saved you the mortification of depending upon him for some spare money. So I think it is a fortunate af- fair, as I shall be compelled to trouble you for some cash, soon." The oolor came and departed from Elmore's cheeks, as he heard his father's death mentioned as a trifling affair; but he was accustomed to submit to many in-  dignities from Dutton; and making a virtue of neces- . sity, he said nothing. After having reflected for a few moments upon his situation, he thought that his father  could not desire life to be compelled to witness his condi- tion and disgrace. Again the feelings of regret strug.  gled hard to induce him to reform; but Dutton, soon  noticing his appearance, forced down him a few glasses of brandy, after which he found no difficulty in man- aging him as he chose. Again he filled his glass,  again he drank the delusive poison, and again he cov- ered himself with deeper disgrace, to conceal that  which already existed. We will now pause for a few moments, and describe  more minutely the family of Mr. Elmore. He was now blessed with four children, or rather he might  have been, ad he chose to act the part of a parent.. I The eldest was a girl, and favored with the same name as her mother; the next two were boys, named Henry   52    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, and Thomas; the fourth was named Elizabeth. The oldest child was eight years old; the others were seven, six and three. They were pleasant, lovely children. They realized not the burden of grief which was daily affecting the health of their mother; but wheri they saw the tear-drop standing in hereye, or  when they heard the heavy, long-drawn sigh, their  pleasure was over until she appeared calm again. 'The eldest was the image of her mother, and formerly the' favorite of her grandparents. The eldest boy was a fine, intelligent lad; the other was a bold,:reckless fel-  low, who was happy only when performing some feat  which-none of his age or size could do. They were as yet possessed with the: semblance of wealth, and frequently were the means of rendering many a heart happy by their benevolence.  We ill- next attempt briefly to describe a 'meeting of the club of which Elmore was a member, which occurred about three months after the death of his  father. After the brandy bottle had been passed around, and after each one had taken so much of its contents as to be nearly incapable of thought, Elmore said, "I have been very unfortunate with you, Dutton,  for a few nights past. To-night I make my fortune, or lose my all. Forty thousand dollars I stake to com- mence with. Dare you do the same?"     . "Of course; I never had the reputation of being backward in that respect," said Dutton. Elmore won.  "We now are square," said Dutton. "Fortune  favors you to-night,I see. Let us take a glass all round, and try our luck again. I challenge you to stake eighty thousand dollars this time.". "It is done," said Elmore, flinging his notes upon the table.   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    53 It may as well be remarked here, that Dutton was a person who possessed the faculty of getting everybody else intoxicated, whilst he remained sober. Elmore usually was the winner when he was not so far intoxi- cated as not to know how he managed. Dutton un- derstood this. That game was played. Elmore lost. "Come,. drink again, gentlemen," said Dutton. "How much this time?" "I have no more money to lose," said Elmore. "But this I 'll do: I'll stake my houses and lands against eighty thousand dollars."  "Agreed," said Dutton. Elmore lost. "Lost! lost! O, God, I'm ruined!" said Elmore, partly recovering his senses as the reality of his situa- tion burst upon his mind. 'My wife! my children! O, Heavens, what shall I do? Dutton, you have ruined me!"  "Stop, stop, my friend," said Dutton. "I 'll manage  things for you, and give you an opportunity to win all ; your fortune again. I consider that I am a very be- I nevolent man, and I take pride in assisting you to- night. If you will accept of my terms, all will yet be  well, with you."  "What, sir, are your terms?" said Elmore. "I 'll ! agree to anything."  "You have four lovely children; I am childless. I will stake eighty thousand dollars against your eldest daughter. If you win you gain, and if you lose you are the gainer - for I will promise you, upon my word and honor, that I will place her in one of the first families of the State, and educate her in the best schools in the country."  "I will do it," said Elmore. M -' -i , ' ,               . ' '," A.." *    54'    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, Again they drank. Elmore lost.  I'll stake my second," were his only words. "Agreed," said Dutton. Elmore won this time - "I have won my first-born;  now I stake her to get my fortune. To-night I rise or fall'" were his words.  He lost.  - "Again I stake my second child," said he. Again  he lost.  "I offer my third, and the last in my power to give," said Elmore. He was now in the power of Dutton; he lost this  also. Again the power of consciousness returned.  He smote-his head in agony. His eyes flashed with rage, and as he looked on Dutton, that wretch trembled beneath his gaze. "O, God!" he cried, " let me die!  My, wealth! my home! my children! Where are   j they? Gone! gone! .gone! Dutton," said he, "you have done this. The truth has now burst upon my  j mind. Here, traitor! liar! knave! is thy recom- pense!' And drawing a knife from his bosom, he sprang upon him with the ferocity of a tiger, and en- deavored to plunge it in his bosom. Dutton sprang  aside and escaped the blow, and then with a well-  directed blow, laid him senseless upon the floor.  "Comrades," said Dutton, "let us take him to his i home. His wife will restore him soon, to ruin her and f her family. Little does she think that her own hus-  band is the viper that shall give her her death-wound;  and the more she prolongs his life by her kindness to-  ward him, the greater will be the anguish of her heart. I know that she regrets now her choice, and daily wishes that she had married me. But come, comrades, we will not stop to descant on her folly, now,  R * @ t * I - e    HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     55 Take hold there, Godbold; you there, Eaton.. Now I shall glut my revenge." They placed the body of Elmore upon the door- stone, and after having summoned his wife, Dutton told her that her husband needed her assistance, and with a hearty laugh he left her to her thoughts. For years that laugh sounded in her ears as the knell of her hopes. After having applied various restoratives to her hus- band, she soon witnessed signs of returning animation, and presently she succeeded in helping him into the house. He succeeded in crawling to the bed, where he soon lay in a state of intoxicated repose. Mrs. Elmore wept all night; and when the morning sun sent its invigorating rays upon the earth, it shone ,upon many wretched beings. One of these was Mrs. Elmore. Her cheek was flushed with fever, and her mind gave evident symptoms of delirium. A physi- cian was. immediately called to her assistance, who declared her case a critical one, but expressed hopes that she might recover if she had suitable attention, and could be kept in a perfect state of quiet. Ser- vants eager to do her every bidding watched around her bed, and an. aged father and mother viewed with  astonishment the recent change in the appearance of their daughter, and wept around her bedside. Days passed on, and she soon began to recover, and expressed a desire to see her parents and her children. The former came, but the latter appeared not. "Where are my children?" said the mother.. II  fear some evil has befallen them." "Thy youngest is here," said the parents," but the others we have sent away for fear their noise might  .j   56    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, disturb you. You shall see them as soon as you recover."  "I feel troubled about them," said the another, "I feel as though some evil is about to befall them. Are' they well? Mother, do not deceive me." "' Can you not believe your mother," said the aged woman. "Have I ever deceived you? Your children are well."                    l " no, never I trust in you," said the sickwoman. Andagain she sunk back upon her pillow in quiet and repose. We will now return again to the husband. The next morning after he was conveyed home in a state of stupor, William Elmore rose from his bed, and after having taken his morning dram, he com- menced meditating upon his future prospects. His present situation was bad enough, even to a mind whose vigor had been destroyed by intoxicating drink. But yet he hoped that Dutton would agree to some easy terms. He therefore, after having eaten his morning meal, proceeded immediately to his residence to know the worst. He had at least nothing to lose ifn wealth, and little of character - for the terms, drunk-  ard and gambler, were, he thought, the lowest appella- tions for the rile. Dutton, Eaton, and Godbold, he knew, were more despised than himself, and he even flattered himself that the look of every villager, when it met his, was a look of pity and respect. He thought aright. He was loved in his disgrace, and honored for his former virtues, Dutton, on the contrary, had ever been oppressive to the poor, and penurious with the rich; and he had made himself odious by every act of his life. Eaton was an illiterate coxcomb; and God. r   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     57 bold had the reputation of being a thief, and suspicion said,-a highway robber. But he did not stop long to think of these things; onward he pressed toward Dutton's. He passed along as rapidly as possible, for he seldom went these streets but what he heard some kind voice speak in a pitiful tone, "Why will not you reform? The cup will prove thy ruin." He had not proceeded far when he encountered  Henry Carlton. "My  dear friend," said Carlton, what a great change there has been in your appear- ance, since I saw you last! Hear the words of reason and obey them! Abandon the cup and thy asso- ciates." "I asked you not for advice," said Elmore. "Justice demands that I shpiild give it," said Carl- ton. "In justice to yourself and to your children, I do this. Will you not regard my words?'  "I have no time to waste in words," said Elmore,  .w and hurriedly passed on. He had passed but a few steps before he met a play-  mate and favorite of his former years. "Mr. Elmore," exclaimed the lady, "can this be you?" and burst into tears.  Onward he passed, inwardly cursing those who  would continue to interfere in his business, until he arrived at the residence of Dutton. "I am happy to see you to-day," said that individ-  ual. You have come to square up, I suppose. Well," continued he, without waiting for a reply, "I'll tell - you what I 'll do. I have won your property, and three of your children; and I have done it fairly and honor- ably. But as I wish to prove myself benevolent to my  best friends, I will return your house to you; 'but it is                    J .:/'   58    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, a gift. But thy children I must have to-morrow. Come, take a glass of brandy. You appear dull to. day.". "No, I cannot drink," said Elmore; "I am sick!  Spirit of my father, help thy son! Must I lose my children- my all! Would to God I had died before this hour!" "The papers are ready for your signature," said Dutton. "There, sir, is the paper, signed by myself, surrendering you the house." Elmore hastily signed the papers, without reading them, and then arising, said: "There, sir, my fate is sealed! You, sir, have ruined me! You first put the cup to my lips; you induced me to stake thousands upon a game of chance; you urged me on in my course to ruin! And may the curses of my father's God rest upon you forever! May the agonies of thy conscience embitter thy life; and thy death, may it be like thy father's! My children you shall have to-morrow. Their mother is a maniac. Her insanity is caused-by the wrongs she has suffered from thy hands. Never, never, shall she behold me again, who have wronged her so shamefully! I will remove them froml her when she knows'it not. But when she recovers, you may settle this with her and God! Farewell!" "I shall await the fulfillment of your promise," said Dutton. William Elmore retired from Dutton's that afternoon in the greatest distress. He sought his chamber, and in solitude he fell upon his knees, and offered a prayer to heaven. In his sober moments he loved his children as he did his own life ; and although now his faculties were almost destroyed by intoxication, yet the strongest   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     59 passions of his heart were aroused by this last act of Dutton's. As he sat meditating upon the prospect before him, a portrait of himself, which was taken before he touched the fatal cup, attracted his attention. He gazed at the glass, and contrasted his former and his present ap- pearance. The -first was a fair picture, unsullied by care; the last was a picture of intemperance and mis- ery. His form was bloated, his eyes were bloodshot, and his frame quivered with excitement. In agony he rose and rushed from the house. He knew not,-he cared not, whither he went; but he sought to fly from the true picture of himself. He was not conscious of ex- istence, till he saw the rising sun, which announced to his mind the fatal fact, that that day his children must leave him. All night long had he lain almost lifeless beside the walls, and he awoke to consciousness, but to wish that insensibility had lasted forever. Slowly he moved toward his home, and after having passed  through the formalities of a morning meal, he requested  the privilege of removing his three oldest children to the family of his uncle, until his wife's recovery, as he-- feared their noise would disturb her. No objection was offered to this arrangement, and afterhaving taken a last, lingering look of his com- panion, he started with his three children, to place them in the hands of a wretch. In vain were the tears brushed from his eyes; in vain did he strive to appear cheerful to his children. His heart was full, almdst to  bursting, and his mind was rapidly verging toward de- lirium. Rage and anger took the place of regret, as he ap-  proached the residence of Dutton                 ^-         \ Jo   60    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, "Here," said he, "are my children. They are my life! O, God! could'st n'ot Thou have saved me from this? Would that death had closed my eyes and spared my parents! Would to God that anything but this had come! But vengeance is mine, and I will repay!  saith the Lord. Heaven will not let the innocent suffer unavenged, or the guilty go free from punishment." "Behold," said Dutton, "my revenge! I swore it in my youth; and now I rejoice in your distress. You spurned me then. You laughed at my misery. You ridiculed my proffered love. Now you are in my power; and, by heaven! you shall feel the weight of my hand!"                     B "Papa," said the eldest girl, "do not leave us with this bad man! My mother hates him, and so do I. O, father! he'll kill us, if you leave us here!" The father could only reply by tears and groans. He gave one kiss to each of his children, and received one in return. Then, bidding them obey that man, and telling them that he would not kill them, he rushed from the house, passed through the village, and then again reason left him. He knew not whither he went, but onward he moved until he fell prostrate upon the ground. The rising sun again restored him tocon- sciousness; and after several times having attempted to walk, he at length succeeded in finding the resi- dence of Eaton, whom he persuaded to conceal him for a few days, until he could obtain strength to pro- ceed on his journey. He was there furnished with a room for concealment, and his necessary wants were supplied by Mrs. Eaton, who watched over him with a sisterly love, and endeavored by every means in her power to draw his mind from his situation, and to form with him brighter plans for the precarious future.   HON STY THE BEST POLICY.     61 CHAPTER V. "I have been full oft The chase of fortune; now she hath overtaken My spirit when it cannot turn at bay-- Sick, poor and lonely."-WERNER. We will now leave William Elmore at the house of Eaton, and follow Dutton in his manceuverings with the three children. Immediately after the departure of Elmore, Dutton confined the children in a dark room, and bade them remain there quietly until his re- turn for them. He then left them, and departed for Godbold, but on his return was surprised to hear their shouts for help. He caught a horsewhip in his hands, and rushing into the room he distributed two or three blows to each of the children. This, in connection with the oaths which he freely used, silenced his cap- tives, and he received no further trouble from them. All night those children wept for -the comforts of home, and wondered why-their father did not return for them; and in the morning the tear-drops stood in their eyes; which-were swollen by continual weeping. A'pile of rags was their only bed, and a few crumbs of bread served for their food during their confinement at Dutton's. Having been reared in the enjoyment of every luxury, they knew nothing of privations and hardships, and it seemed hard to them to he ushered in an instant from independence, to the extreme of want and exposure.   -62   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, Godbold received Thomas for his share of the child. ren, and started for the South. He deserted the daughter of one of the most influential citizens in the place, who had expected in a few days to have been married to him. Death soon terminated her troubles. Dutton also accompanied him with the other children. *The boy he left in Pennsylvania, with a man by the name of Blake; the girl in New York. It was the object of Dutton, in providing homes for these children, to obtain those whose inmates we're the most degraded, that these children might be reared in ignorance and crime, and taught to cprse, and blaspheme the name of God. He desired that they should be taught to despise everything that was noble and praiseworthy, and de- light only in works of wickedness. Clara was bound out to a woman by the name of  Welch, and she was told by Dutton that this woman was to be her future mother, and that she must love, -serve and obey her, and forget her own parents. Clara cast one look at her, but that was sufficient., She was a short, swarthy, dirty and ragged being an objett of disgust to any civilized being. Had such a person appeared before her at home, she would have received many testimonies of her regard. She would have taken her rags from her, and clothed her in habilinients more suitable for a human being to'wear. 1 said shie cast one look at her - she could not look again, but, bursting into tears, she entreated Dutton to take her to her own mother. "This girl is too delicate ti do anything," said the woman. "I am sorry that I engaged to take her. And I would not have taken her at any rate, had I thought that it was Friday. I never made a good trade in my life on Friday."   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     3 "You 're notional," said Dutton. "I was born on "Friday; and I never made a bad trade on that day in my life." Well, if you was born on Friday, you will be hung as sure as you breathe. My uncle John's children were all born on Friday." "We wont stop to dispute about that, but make that girl earn her living. Good day!" Clara was made to do all kinds of drudgery by the woman and she was whipped when she could work no longer. She was compelled to bring in large piles of wood, to bring water from a spring a great ways off, to pick stones, and many other kinds of farm work. As for such work as sweeping floors, washing dishes, and cleaning house, it was seldom done there by anybody.  The family consisted of the husband -a rough, im- petuous and vulgar man- his wife, and two boys, the oldest named John, and his brother, Bill, who wasa would-be wit and the pest of the county, as he had been educated neither to fear God nor regard man. "Well," said Bill, " this is a fine place, Clara. The roof of this house is shingled with straw; the windows are made of old hats; the beds are piles of rags; our most worthy companions are bed-bugs. A place for everything, and- everything in its proper place, is the first law in this establishment. The oven is our ward. robe; the garret is our pig-sty; and the cellar is our  hen-roost. Comfortable quarters these! I hope you will enjoy them!" Clara stood gazing at him in mute astonishment, when the woman said: "Shut up your head, and say less. She will find these things out without your tell- ing her." "I will give you your stint to-day," said the woman,   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, the next day after Clara arrived there. "Bring that pile of wood into the house, and you need do no more." "I never handled over so much wood in my life," said Clara. " I can't help that, but it is high- time that you had; and here is a horsewhip to help you !" said the woman. Clara commenced her task with a heavy heart, and although she carried as much as possible at a time, yet the heap wore slowly away. " Stir livelier there !" said the woman, after Clara had tugged away upon it for two or three hours. You wont get that done to-night, if you do n't mind !" " I can't work any faster. I am sick. Do let me rest !" "I '11 rest you!" said the woman, as she seized a horsewhip, and commenced laying on the blows, appar- ently with a good relish.  Every blow brought a scream of terror from Clara, who at length sunk down upon the ground, unable longer to stand. A gentle- man and lady, by the name of Foster, passing along the road in a chaise, stopped the horse, and begged the woman not to abuse the child more. " She's mine !" said the woman; "and I shall treat my own as I please. Help yourself, if you can !" "lEor God's sake, save me from this woman !" said Clara. " She is not my mother, and has no right to -abuse me." " Speak another word, and I will murder you !" said woman, in a low tone of voice. Then addressing Mr. Foster, she said: "This girl's parents could not man- age her. They have given her to me, that I may con- quer her disposition.  You may interfere, if. you choose."   I   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.       65   "c The appearance of this girl avouches for her dis- position. You had better form a more plausible story." "What may I call your name ?" said Bill, who had just now arrived. "My name is Honesty." " Ha ! ha ! ha ! that reminds me of my grandfather's dog. His name was Whitefoot, and he had n't a white hair on him !" ( What's your name, Master Inquisitive ?" "They call me Bolton Crow, because I pulled up all Mr. Everett's corn; the Veto, because I broke open four hornets' nests in a political meeting, and scattered the people; the Picture of Health, because I am so handsome; and lastly, I am your most obedient and humble servant." What are you good for, besides mischief ?" ( I am so industrious, that I can do the work of six men, at the dinner-table; so temperate, that I never drink any thing stronger than brandy; so upright, that I stand up when I sleep; so quiet, that I get up last in the house, for fear of disturbing the rest; so wise, that I can extract teeth from a harrow; so dirty, that I never know when it is ,morning; so good a judge of hogs, that I could make you believe you was a perfect specimen ; so affectionate, that they call me the laugh- ing hyena; so    " "So eloquent, that you have wearied my patience. Good by !" During 'this colloquy, the woman had assisted Clara into the house, and flinging her upon her bed of rags, she left her to her thoughts. "O, mother! mother !" sobbed she, " would that I could see you once more, and die in thy embrace ! Would that I could place my head upon thy bosom, 5   "    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, and hear one kind word from thy lips! I know that you never meant that I should be abused in this man. ner! They have lied to me. I know they have. O, home! home! sweet, sweet home! I shall never see thee more!" and she covered her face with her hands, and wept. The next day Clara was left again in her room by Mrs. Welch, who, perhaps, the day previous, had re- pented of her cruelty. A faint ray of hope began to drink the anguish of  her heart and illuminate her darkest hours. Hope-- that innate desire, which transforms future bliss into- present enjoyment -that blessing, which is health to the sick man- a home to the wanderer    the: christian's heaven -2 came with all its soothing influ- ence, and assured her that soon she should be liberated from that abode of wretchedness and sin. Her thoughts soon turned from her situation to the many untruths which she had heard since she had  been there; and having been frequently accustomed to i writing poetry for her mother, she sought for materials  necessary for placing her ideas upon paper. Having a  pencil in lher pbcket, she found an old piece of waste paper, and composed the following lines: "TRUTH. "Hail, Truth! first sovereign of the heart!  Controller of the conscience dart! Proclaimer thou of bliss and joy, To those whose tongues thy words eploy! ' Thy realm is the world justice thy plan; Thy throne is the heart of an honest man;   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     67 Thy sceptre is virtue's glistening rod; Thy voice is the oracle of God! "Light of the soul! joy of the mind! Harbinger of good to all mankind! Arise! to all thy power display'; Teach all on earth thy perfect way. ( Then would the sun that lights the heart, Forever shine; no clouds dispart The bright refulgence of the light, Or strive to form a moral night. "s Joy to the world, when Truth shall reign Triumphant o'er this vast domain! And when that all in every land Shall bow at her supreme command!" She had scarcely finished writing, before the door opened, and her tormentor walked up to her, and stood viewing the lines upon the paper. "Well, Madam Laziness, you have found an em- ployment, after all! What did you copy this from?" "I did n't copy it," said Clara. "I composed it." "That is a likely story! Read it, and let us witness your intellectual greatness." "I would prefer that you read it," said Clara, who feared that she should be abused for writing her opin- ions, which were so much at variance with their prac- tice. "I read them!" roared the woman; "I never read a word in my life, nor can anyone read a word in this house, excepting the old man. We do n't live here by reading or writing."   68    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, Clara stood gazing at her, with marked astonish. ment, not knowing whether to believe her or not; butI upon recollecting that the only book which she had seen since she had been there, was ai old almanac, she believed her. "Do n't look so at me; if you' do, I 'll beat your brains out! I was not made to gawk at. Come, read away!" As soon as she had finished reading the lines, John came into the room, declaring that she should write some verses for him. , "What can you do with verses?" said the old wo- man. "You know how I love Sally Jenkins," said John, "and Tom Stratton says that every body should write poetry when they are in love. But you know that she do n't like me, and runs away from me every time she sees me; but I think if I could get a few verses, I should win her. -You must write the verses, Clara, and I will tell her that I composed them." "That would not be right, John," said Clara; " it would be false to say so; and all liars have their part-- -  "It wont be any of your business," said the woman, interrupting her, " whether he lies or tells the truth. You 'll get a thrashing if you do n't write them, and I will be answerable for the lies. To-morrow I will give you to write them; so there 's another day of laziness for you. And if they are n't done by to-morrow night, I 'll thrash you until you can see stars at mid-day. So go about it, right straight off." 'ell," said Clara, "but I don't know what he wants me to write; and I can 't unless I do." "That 's a pretty how-do-ye-do!" said the woman.      HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     69 t He must tell you what to write, and then you will write it. Humph! that 's as much as I thought you knew."  "O," said Jo , "you must write that I love her dreadfully, and s run off and drown myself, if she wont have me.  it write if she ever has any body else, I 'll be the death of him. And write - O, write a lot - but put it in rhyme though; and I will love you, and serve you; and mother shall not/ pound you any more." "I shall do as I please about that!" roared the wo- man; and immediately the mother afrd son entered into a lengthy controversy, which ended in the mother's giving him two or three pretty smart blows with her fist, and by the' boy's sitting her down in the chair, and holding her there some fifteen minutes, until her pas- sions had somewhat abated. With a desponding heart, Clara arose the next morning, fearful that she should disappoint' her mis-i tress or her son, in the quality of the verses she should prepare for him. At the breakfast table she was treat- ed with the greatest respect by all; and John, having seated himself at her side, kindly helped her to the best the table afforded. After breakfast, she was furnished with pen, ink and paper, by John, who in-  quired at what hour the verses would be finished. She told him that she could not tell; but she would furnish them as soon as possible. Every half hour during that day was he at the house, to inquire if the verses were not completed. At length the-dinner hour came, and then he thought of a surety he could hear them read ;, but much to his dis- appointment, she told him that she preferred not to read any until she had completed them to her liking. -  '  -  '   'i , F   70    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, Again 'he seated himself beside her at the table, and paid his devoirs to her, much to the mortification of his younger brother, who asserted that one lady was enough for John to have, and that ;Clara belonged by right to him. About four o'clock in the afternoon, however, the morceau was completed, and ever' member of an anx. ious family gathered around her to hear the mystical lines. "Well, Clar," said John, "we are now all ready to hear my love verses." Clara commenced, and read the following verses: (      "TO MSS SALLY JENKINS. 'BY J. WELOH. "First in my heart, by night or day, With thy sweet smiles and lovely form; First in my heart, where'er I stay, Alike in sunshine or in storm! Thy smiles would render darkest night As calm, as pleasant as the day, When morning suns dispel from sight  The clouds that render dark our way. "I go from thee a stranger, far Upon the wide, wide world to rove; Thine image, e'er my guardian star,- Shall always bind my heart to love. " go  I ask no friendly hand  To wipe the tear-drop from mine eye; I ask for none in this strange land, To soothe my pillow whilst I die.   HONESTY TH BEST POLICY.     71 "Friendless a stranger and alone, I live, I die - with none to weep, Except the tempest's fearful moan Howls, as it passes where I sleep. "But  ! may joy, and peace, and love, Even as now, be ever thine! And in the realms of bliss above, May we unite in joys divine!" "Splendid! splendifferous!" exclaimed the father. "That exceeds anything I ever read in my life." 4 O," said Billy, the younger brother, "that will win her!" "Passable, considering how young you be," said the old woman.                      ' "O, Clara!" said John, "it is just what I should have written myself. How nice it is! How elegant! There is one thing more I want to say, though," cone tinued he. Tell her,                 E "That if she 'll only marry me,  "I 'll stay with her, and happy be!" "I can put that down at the bottom, just as well as ' not," said Clara.          t  The lines of John's composing were added, and the whole -after having been duly signed, sealed and delivered-met with the acceptance of Miss Sally Jenkins, who immediately accepted himt as her lover; 6I and in some four -weeks she became Mrs. John tWel6h. John, of course, felt very grateful t: Clara for her  assistance, and endeavored to protect her from his  cruel parent; but being of necessity away from home  W ay   72    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, most of the time, he was not able to do so. Every day bore testimony to some new abuse, and every night witnessed the tears of Clara, who sought in solitude and tears her only alleviation. Days passed on, and Clara Elmore was but the shadow of her former self. She was clothed in rags, in exchange for the habili- ments of -comfort; and, cold, hungry and abused - in spite of the efforts of John and Billy -she was scarcely able to support existence. ' I never saw the match for you in my life!" said Mrs. Welch, one day. "You smash all the dishes when you undertake to wash them; you kill all the chickens, by giving them too much; and when I told you to boil some eggs soft, you went and boiled them three hours! You do n't know how to do anything. I wish you been in Guinea before I had seen you. If I speak to you, you act as if you were scared to death; and if I strike you, you up and faift. I never did see the beat of you, sartin!" "She's an angel!" said Bill, " and if you use her as she ought to be used, you will have no trouble." "You mind your own business!" said the woman; and raising her fist, she knocked her hopeful son pros- trate upon the floor.  "By --!" said the boy, springing upon his feet, "if you strike me again, I 'll send you where they burn yellow back-logs, and do n't rake up the fire nights." The mother, not expecting to be initiated in the mysteries of Tartarus quite so suddenly, seized a horse- whip, and at once commenced the attack. The result was, the boy conquered, but contented himself with al- lowing her to remain on earth, provided she would treat Clara as she had ought.  As Clara had attempted to learn the boys their let-   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     73 ters, they were in the house much more than was de- sired by Mrs. Welch, and this was an additional cause of her enmity toward Clara. At first, she endeavored to discourage them by telling them that it never would be any benefit to them; but Clara used the most pow- erful arguments and daily instructed them. John and Bill became daily more attached to Clara, and assisted her in the performance of her tasks, and exerted them- selves to amuse and interest her; but as-soon as they were gone, the mother shamefully abused and tor- mnted her. One day, after she had been instructing them, and after they had testified their gratitude to Clara for her kindness to them, Mrs. Welch gave vent to her feel- ings in a tirade against education. She concluded her  remarks by saying to Clara, that she wished for no nore of her services, and hoped that she would clear out of the house and never enter it again. Much to her astonishment, Clara sprang for her bon- net, and rushed out of the house. In her eagerness to escape from the hovel, she had not considered the dif- ficulty of procuring another situation, until after she  had walked some ways from  the house. She then sank down beside the road, and wept bitterly. She was presently aroused by hearing a carriage ap- proach her, and was agreeably surprised when she found that it contained Mr. and Mrs. Foster, who were the persons that formerly saw her abused. She deter- mined at once to address them; and, on arising to do so, the carriage stopped. The words which she had anticipated to speak the instant the carriage stopped, were out of her mind; her lips refused to move; and  i pale, trembling and weeping, she stood before them,  "What 's the matter now?" said Mr, Foster,    74    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, Clara told them all. She told them how she was abused, and how they had lied to him before. She told them of a home that was fir away - of a mother's tender care of luxury, of ease and enjoyment; and when they looked upon her sad features and wasted form, the tear-drops came in their eyes. That woman is coming after me now! I see her! What shall Ido  Can you not take me to some barn, ,where I can stay in quiet, and subsist on what dumb beasts refuse ." said Clara. "See that Child!" said Mrs. Foster. "When first we saw her, she was not so poor and pale as now she  is.  She was a child of luxury, I do not doubt, whom envy has deprived of a happy home, and sought to ruin.  She begs to stay in the barn. No, my daugh. ter, I have a happy home, and you shall share its fa- vors, if you will." Clara needed no urging.   With one bound, she sprang  into the carriage.  The whip snapped, the horses sprang forward, and away they went, just in  time to hear the shout of Mrs. Welch, who had not the least idea of letting her victim depart from her power.  John  and Bill were in a perfect rage when they heard the story of Clara's desertion, and there was war in that hut that night. To follow her, they well knew, would be useless, for they knew that they had no lawful right to her service. Billy wept to think that the day-dream which he had so recently formed was so soon destroyed; and John could not contrive how he was to manufacture verses for several to whom he had promised productions from his pen. At her new home, Clara found that her only em. ployme'nt would be the care of a child two years old. iShe was humored and   indulged by Mr. and Mrs,   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     75 Foster, as much as they indulged their own children. , She was clad in suitable apparel; and soon, by proper care and attention, she regained her health, strength, and exuberance of spirits. - Mr. Foster thought, accord.-  ing to her own statement, that she was not wanted at home; and concluded to make no attempts to restore her to her friends, and to keep her unless she was de- manded by persons who possessed unmistakable evi-  dence of their right to do so. Clara, also, although she frequently thought of home, feared to mention her desire to be there, lest by some means she should be again incarcerated in a den resembling the one from which she had thus providentially escaped. She became, day by day, more attached to her new home, and daily became more the object of adoration  i and love, as the parents of her adoption found in her  a being worthy of their love and respect. ;o  -'i s -   76    THE WAY OF THE WOjLD: OR, CHAPTER   VI. "Such are the plants Which spring beneath her step, as passion flies O 'er the world's wilderness, and vainly pants For some celestial fruit forbidden to our wtnts." BYRON. We will now return to Mrs. Elmore, whom we left upon a sick bed. Daily did she gain strength, until she was able to visit the different rooms in the house,  and attend-to some of the lightest of her customary duties; yet she was incessant in he inquiries in re- gard to her children. At length it was deemed expe- dient to send a servant for her children, as nothing had been heard from either the children or the parent. The servant returned, not having been able either to find them, or to find any who had seen them, or that knew where they were. Further search was made, and it alike proved unavailing; for no one had seen the child- ren; no one had' seen the parent. The cup of Mrs. Elmore's sorrows was now full, for come what miight, even death itself, she could not suffer more mental an- guish than she did now. She sat gazing abstractly on a figure upon the walls for a few moments, and then fell senseless upon the floor. A physician was imme- diately called, and remedies were used to bring her to consciousness. They were successful, but soon it dis- appeared in delirium. She tore her hair from her head, and dashed upon the floor the medicines which  *   ts       -      g    11   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.      " they offered her. She refused to be comforted'in her afflictions, and" declared life to be an insufferable bur. den to her. Soon reason returned, and then she felt that she had a great duty to perform. She felt that the future destinies of her children depended upon her exertions, and on that sick bed she resolved to traverse the earth, if it was necessary, to find them. Again must we describe the recovery of Mrs. El- more. Rapidly she gained strength, for she felt as if she had a duty to perform to God and man. She felt that she had a duty to perform to her deceased father-  in-law to him who was\ a spirit -that those who bore his name, should not be reared in crime and dis- sipation. But she also remembered that they were her  own; those whom she had loved and watched over,  night after night, and day after day.' She could not lose them now; and as she knelt before God, to im-  plore his assistance, she promised there her life, to be devoted to obtaining her children, and saving, her hus- band. Had her children been laid by the side of her deceased friends, she would have fancied them in heaven, and been happy in the thought. But now there was something spoke to her heart, that they  were with the vilest of the vile. She fancied that the wretch, Dutton, who had sworn to ruin them, knew where those children were. She knew that if her children were in his power, he would place. them in the lowest dens of infamy and disgrace, and this urged her onward to the most incredible exer- tions. Godbold had'left the place, forever to remain away, it was said; and his disappearance at the same  time as her husband and children, led her to suppose that Godbold was to be their future protector, and that  he would educate them to be like himself-a proto- *: -   -   *       .   * i,H    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, type for demons. She thought that Dutton would most probably adopt this course, in preference to de- stroying their life, because he knew that a living evil would be worse than a dead one. Mrs. Elmore, therefore, took her child in her arms, and for the first time in her life sought the house of Dutton. She found him at home, surrounded by a company of blacklegs, brandy bottles, cards, dice, dominoes, &c. Dutton received her with the utmost cordiality, and after having offered- her a seat, commenced conversing upon the leading, topics of the day, his associates having left the room. "I come," said Mrs. Elmore, "for my children, and to hear from my husband. You, sir, have stolen them from me. You was not contented with robbing me of my husband, and him of his wealth and happiness, but my children must be-" "Stop," said Dutton, "go no further. You have wronged me by your suspicions. I love you, and have always acted for your happiness, and your husband's pleasure. He would drink; I gave him the liquor without charge. He would gamble; I won his fortune, it is true, but I gave him his house. Onlywconsider how benevolently I have used him. And now you de- spise me for striving for your welfare. Be not ungrate- ful, but listen to the voice of reason. Stay, lady, stay," said he, addressing her on seeing her arise to depart. ("I will not stay," said she, " either to be insulted by a villain, or to hear the devil talk of benevolence." "Lady," continued he, " hear me; for I have terms to offer you that cannot foil to suit you. Yesterday I received a letter from Godbold, stating that your hus- I   *       '  HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.      '7 band, whilst in a state of intoxication, had fallen from a buildiag in Boston, and broke his neck. Your child ren are in a good situation, I know not precisely where, but I can'find them, if you accept of my terms. I have but one condition to offer for your acceptance or rejection." "( Name it, O, name it," said Mrs. Elmore, forget- ting to whom she was speaking. "If it requires my last dollar, it is thine. If you ask more, I will labor as long as life shall last, and come and pour the gold at your feet, for my children. Name your conditions; they shall be accepted."  "My terms shall be pleasures, not burdens," con- tinued he. "I am a benevolent man. I pity you, and offer you my assistance. Three weeks from to-night I promise that your children shall be in your arms; I promise it before God and man, provided you consent to give me - yourself, in the holy bonds of wedlock." "O, God! help me!" exclaimed the astonished woman; "I will not stay another instant -n thy presence; I will hear no more of thy insults. I marry you! I marry a gambler, a drunkard, and a villain, whilst my own husband is still alive! Madman, what are you thinking about! Sooner would I take a dag- ger, and plunge it in my bosom, or fling myself in the wilderness, to be a prey to beasts, not more unfeeling than thyself, than to marry you. Marry you! Dog! Trait-y" "Save thy vituperations," said Dutton, interrupting / her, "till they can benefit you.- You can act your own pleasure. You have rejected the offers of my be- nevolence. You have despised my 'lenity toward you, and you have used me like a dog. But remember that you and yours are in my power. Search the    80    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, world over, you cannot find your children. Your hus. band is in Tartarus, where he deserved long ago to be. And one thing more I wish you to remember: that you, yourself, are in my power; and this house shall be your home, until you consent to be - my happy wife." Dutton then stamped his foot upon the floor, and the room was instantly filled with his own accomplices. "Alive or dead, I defy you!" said Mrs. Elmore. ," Take this woman to the lock-up, gentlemen," said Dutton. "Come on, my boys," said Eaton, "nothing but a woman to conquerf to-day." t A brave woman fears not knaves," was her reply. Eaton immediately sprang forward and caught her in his arms, whilst she, drawing a dagger from her bosom, which she had prepared for emergencies, plunged it into his side, and drew it out dripping with blood. "O, God," said Eaton, " she's killed me! I'm dead!" and fell upon the floor. Mrs. Elmore immediately sprang for the door, and whilst they were hovering around their wounded companion, she flew from the house. Dutton left his companions, and flinging him. s lf before her, exclaimed, "Stop, woman, you are a ,murderer! Go back with me, and this shall be settled without further trouble; but if you will not return with me, and reject my overtures, the hangman shall settle this dispute between us." "I am answerable for this deed to my country and my God, but not to you or yours. I ask no favors from you but your absence, and if that favor is not granted, this dagger shall clear my path, and if it finds thy '!  , -   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     81 heart, I this can say, no dagger ever found a worthier victim." Dutton looked at her with astonishment. He saw a woman driven to desperation by the amount of her wrongs; he saw the dagger as she brandished it in  the air; he saw her advance, and he, being a coward, very prudently returned to his home. On entering there, he found the wound inflicted upon Eaton a mere scratch, in comparison with what they all expected, and instead of condoling over his body, they corn- menced ridiculing him for his cowardice. "Well," said Eaton, attempting to apologise for his conduct, "the point of a dagger is n't a thing to be laughed about, especially when it is wielded with such energy as she handled that. Any of you, gentlemeA, might have attacked her, if you chose; for my parts I had enough of her." "She did n't court your society much," said Dutton,' "for she ran from you as soon as you dropped her." "I beg your pardon," said Eaton, " but she didnot run from me faster than she did from thy most honora. - ble self."  Mrs. Elmore dashed impetuously forward, with her child in her arms, until she arrived at her own door, and opening it, she fell senseless into the house. Her friends came to her assistance; and being. restored to consciousness, she informed them of the result of her visit. Thinking that it would be useless to attempt to force Dutton to inform them what had become of her  husband (if alive) and children--for they well knew that Dutton would deny every statement:which he had  made her--they determined to make no mention of  his statements, only to their most intimate friends, and  to request them to keep them secret. Not knowing  '          -s6 f ' *  a  " -   -  '*!   82    THE WAY O THE WORLD:' OR, whether to believe that her husband was dead, she found in her absent children a trouble that demanded her instant attention. Previous to the visit which Mrs. Elmore paid Dut- ton, the neighbors andcitizens of the town had come to her assistance, and the town had been searched for the dead bodies of her children. At first, they thought that perhaps Elmore had wandered into the woods, and had died in the state of intoxication, and that the children had died watching over his body. The more they thought of the possibility of such an occurrence, the more they considered that it was next to impossi- ble. The woods, however, were explored, the ponds were searched, and every dark or suspicious corer was throughly examined. But all this was in vain,.as no trace of them could be found, and the villagers re- turned to their homes. Mrs. Elmore advertised for her children in the vari. ous papers of the day, and implored all who had the least spark of humanity existing in their bosoms, to give any information of which they might be possessed. She next made Henry Carlton and Morton acquainted with the circumstances of her visit to Dutton; and they, without disclosing the circumstances which influ- enced their minds, soon succeeded in convincing the citizens of the village that Dutton knew where the children were concealed. 'In a few days, suspicion had become so intense that it ceased to bear the name of suspicion, and was known as a truth which none attempted to deny. They all knew his policy; they thought of his crimes, and his sworn enmity to Elmore; and they determined that he should answer to them for the absence of the children, and should[ restore them again to their mother's arms. ^^^**'A'^', -iiii   I , HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     83  Again the villagers assembled together at the invi-  tation of the committee which was chosen at their former gathering. The object of this meeting was, to devise some plan by which they could obtain some in- i  : formation which they imagined was in the possession  of Dutton, in regard to the lost children. ,  "t Gentlemen," said Henry Carlton, mounting a bar- rel for a platform, from which to address the excited  audience; "Dutton, the man who has occasioned the! ruin of many of* the formerly happiest families in this village, knows where those children are." -  "A rope.! a rope! a rope!" was the shout of an en- raged mob. "Make him find his own rope!" shouted one of the mob.  Gentlemen," said Carlton, " let us do nothing rash. I will be your leader now, as in the search." "Lead on!" was the cry. The enraged mob-- for  such we will now term them- then rushed toward  the house of Dutton, shouting, "Justice! justice! down with the curse of our village!" What gave an additional relish to this, was the fact, that scarcely a  family existed in the whole town, who had not been wronged or ruined by him or his father, or in which  there had not been a son or a parent enticed from the  paths of virtue by his wiles. This, added to their ha- tred for his treatment of. the family of Elmore, pro-  duced a feeling in their hearts bordering on madness. '  At first, they only wished to obtain the children of Mrs. Elmore; but their anger gathering strength, they determined to throw him into prison; and lastly they   i determined on nothing less than his death. For theifist time in his life, Henry Dutton trembled in anticipation odf receiving any thing like his true de.  *' .q        *  A .   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, serts. He heard the shout of the mob, and he feared they would produce his destruction.  Presently his courage revived, as he thought of a secret door, which it was almost impossible to find, and where he would be perfectly secure from harm. He therefore availed himself of this, and, with the greatest nonchalance, awaited their rather unceremonious visit. rWithout even so much as asking admission, the mob rushed into the house with a wild yell, and, with. out interrogating the housekeeper *concerning the whereabouts of her " lord and master," commenced the search. Tables were overthrown; chairs were broken; barrels and boxes were searched, and their contents were strewed about the floor, to be trampled upon or destroyed; beds were likewise torn in pieces; de. canters, filled with wine and brandy, were hurled out of the window; cards were thrown into the fire and burned; and the whole house was nothing but a scene of confusion. The floors and the ceiling were exam- ined, to find, if possible, a secret passage; but their search was unavailing. No Dutton could be found. "I Ihave told you," said the housekeeper, A" for the fiftieth time, that Dutton- is not in this house. What do you wish more than this ?" " Justice ! justice !" roared some half-a-dozen voices. "That you shall receive," said the woman, "if there-is any law or order' in the country." "We will endeavor to give justice to others, before we receive it ourselves !" said Carlton. " Three cheers for Henry Carlton !" shouted Morton, a stout six-footer, who was very confident that Dutton was somewhere in the house. The house rang louder with the shouts of that mob than it ever rang in the shouts of bacchanalian songs.   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.   85   The company next began to vent their anger in the destruction of whatever they could find. ( "Morton, just look at that dog," said Carlton. ( Why is he gazing so steadfastly at that place ? Is not Dutton somewhere there ?" "A secret door !" shouted some twenty voices, and a hundred different individuals were, in an instant, striv- ing to press themselves into a room ten feet by twelve, each wishing to be the first to get hold of him. 44 Gentlemen," said Carlton, " I can't do any thing in this room, it is so crowded. I must have both light and air; so please to leave the room. There, now, you have crowded that dog out of his place. Morton, drive them out, will you ?" Morton sung out, " Clear out !" two or three times, at the top of his voice, and by helping along some of the most dilatory, he soon succeeded in clearing the room. "' There is no secret door here, that is certain,'" said Carlton, after having examined the place. "But see that dog! What makes him look at that place, so steadily? I tell you that the man must be there, by some means or other." "An axe! an axe !" roared a dozen voices. "My foot will answer for an axe," said Morton, "if it is n't more than a five-inch plank !" and suiting the action to the word, with one well-directed blow he parted the door in two pieces. There sat Dutton, trembling with fear. "There, gentlemen," said Morton, "is the greatest scape-gallows in America. I am  happy to see you," continued he. "4I hope to see you well, to-day. Why do n't you come out here, and entertain your guests, as any man would ?  Shall I assist you ?"  86    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, "That is a knowing dog," said a voice from the crowd.  He knew his master ought to be hung, and he did n't intend he should pass without it. How much will you take for him, to hunt blacklegs with?" Dutton saw that there was no chance for him to escape, and he thought that, with his usual deception, he could easily satisfy them. So he quietly came out of his hiding-place, to prevent being dragged out; and began very demurely to apologise for his conceal.  ment. "A rope! a rope! a rope!" was again the cry of'the mob. In less time than was taken to call for them, half-a. dozen came down at the feet of Dutton, who looked rather troubled at the prospect before him. "Mr. Carlton," said Dutton, '"what does this mean? I was not aware of having offended the citizens of this village. I have ever been kind to all in trouble, and of my liberality there are many who can attest." "By Christopher Columbus!" said Morton, " that beats his satanic majesty himself; for he thought that -he wasbenevolent when he gave our first parents the  forbiddden fruit, I suppose; but  "No preaching!" shouted the mob. "Reserve that for another occasion." "Here's a place to hang the culprit'!" shouted i another.  "(Be calm, gentlemen," said Carlton, "His death can do us no good. But if he will inform us of the place of residence of Mrs. Elmore's three children, we will spare his life. Otherwise, his fate is sealed." i "I will tell you all I know about them, upon my word and honor," said Dutton. "Administer the oath!" was the next cry, ,       .     .   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.      87 "A bible! hand us a bible!" shouted the company. "There is not one in the house," said Dutton. ' I have got a pocket bible with me; I always carry it," said Morton. "That will do," said Carlton. Dutton took the bible in his hands, and holding it to the view of the company, said, "I here solemnly promise, by this volume  by every thing holy and. sacred, and before'heaven - that I will give you every information in my power in regard to William El- more's children; and that I will tell you the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. So help me, God! And if I tell you untruths to-day, I hope that the judgments of God will rest upon me forever!" "That will do," said Carlton. "Now you may tell us where the children are." "I will," said Dutton. "Godbold won them fairly from Elmore, by gambling.  He had no money to stake, for he had lost it all; and so he risked his children. He lost them. The last letter I had from Godbold informed me that he was in the Town'of L  , in the State of Maine, at the residence of Edgar Richmond, Esq. That is all I know about them, gentlemen." "Where is Godbold's letter?" said Carlton. "I burnt it when I saw this company approaching the house to-day," said Dutton.  "Did the children leave the village in disguise?" said Carlton. "They staid in this house over night, and then started in disguise. I accompanied them," said Dut- ton. "Where is Mr. Elmore?" said Morton. "He fell from a .building in Boston, and was killed by the fall."                                     ,   88    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, "Do you know that you are speaking under the most solemn circumstances?" said Morton. "I know that I am speaking before God; and if I speak false, I have invoked his curses!" was the reply. "Where was you gone so long from home at that time?" said Carlton. "I had some business of my own to transact before I returned," was the reply. A cloud unseen had arisen from the west, and was now nearly overhead. Whilst the last words were be. ing repeated, a flash of lightning streaming from the cloud, struck near the house. A heavy peal of thunder answered the flash; and so suddenly did it burst upon them, that even the most firm and immovable trembled before its glare. "That is the voice of God!" said Morton. "He has heard thy statements to-day, and this is a token of his approval or his curses. Dost thou not tremble be. fore God to-day for thy deeds?" "Well," said Carlton, "no living being dare take a false oath under such solemn circumstances. We will, therefore, release him, and return to our homes. To. morrow I start for Maine; and as soon as possible, the children shall see their home again, and relieve the 'distresses of their parent." "Well, gentlemen," said Morton, " let us raise some funds to bear his expenses." One stated that he would give five dollars; another, three; another, two; and so on, until every person in the house had offered something toward defraying his expenses. "There is ten times as much money as I want," said Carlton. "What shall we do with the balance '?" "A gift to Mrs, Elmore!" was the unanimous sWout of the company, ,   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     89 r  ,           * "Now," said Morton, " what shall be done with this man?  Perhaps Godbold may remove some where else, and we may have no means of tracing him, unless we confine this map." "I pronise you solemnly," says Dutton, "that I will remain in this house until the children are brought to this place; and I promise further, that I will use every exertion in my power to restore the children again to their home." ' That is sufficient," said Carlton. ", We will take your word." "Our business is done. Every man can now depart -to his own home." The omnium  gatherum gradually departed from Dutton's, and left him alone to his thoughts. For a  few moments, he trembled like an aspen, whilst he was reflecting upon his narrow escape from the vengeance  of the mob. At length these feelings subsided, and joy was depicted on every feature, as he thought of some plan for the future.  "'hat's a narrow escape I have had to-day," said he to his housekeeper. "Day after tomorrow I start for New York. They may catch me if they can ; but I guess it will be long before they find them children in the State of Maine. Ha! ha! ha!" * How dare you take such a solemn oath, and then  state falsely before heaven and man?" said the house-  keeper. "Have you no fear of God  Have you for- gotten the dying injunctions of your father? You  frighten even me, one of the vilest of the vile. I will go and inform them of your deceit and perjury. I will  bid them seize you, and compel you to bring back those children. Wretch! this night we part." Vi  4 g        ,^       .-.,    YU    THE WAY OF, THE WORLD: OR,  "Woman," said Dutton, " did you not know that I am God in my own house ? " " You would not have been so to-night," said the housekeeper, " had it not been for Carlton." "And yet I am, I fooled him! I lied to them! and they believed me. Ha ! ha! ha ! It is astonish. ing what great power I have over other men. My star has not yet reached its zenith." Henry Carlton started the next mornino for Maine, and Dutton startedfthe morning after, in disguise, for New York. He escaped observation, and eluded the vigilance of those who had been placed by Morton and Carlton to watch his motions. He arrived safely in New York, unknown and unobserved, and for a short time joined a company of blacklegs. The heart of Mrs. Elmore was full of joy when she ascertained the result of Carlton's interview with Dut. ton; and although she was well aware of his disregard for truth, yet she believed that he would not perjure himself, and she wept with delight in the anticipation of soon meeting her children, and holding them again in her arms. Carlton arrived at L--   filled with the most san. rguine expectations; but after having traversed the town over and over again, and inquired in every habi. tation for the lost children, he found none who had ever seen any children, or Godbold, or knew a person by the name of Richmond. Dispirited and discouraged, Carlton returned home scarcely knowing whether to believe his own senses or not. He could not believe that Dutton had intention. ally misdirected him,   and he.frequently said, "  He durst got thus have deceived me!  No villain darst take the bible in his hands, and invoke the curses of- r  * '!                A.,   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.      91   God under such solemn circumstances, and then state falsely. No, I cannot believe it! It is next to impos. sible." In a very few moments after the arrival of Carlton in his native village, mechanics had left their shops, farmers had left their tillage grounds, and one and all had left their various occupations to hear the result of Carlton's journey, or to place the children in the arms of a fond parent.  Sadly were they disappointed. He gave them a complete history of his journey. He told them; that he had visited nearly every house in the village, and that every inquiry he had made, afforded him not the least satisfaction. " I wish we had hung the villain," said Morton. " That dog said hang him, and the voice of God, as it spoke in the thunder, said hang him. I will warrant that he is not within a thousand miles of here by this time." They then informed Carlton that Dutton had disap. peared two days after they had visited him, and had not been heard of since ; that the house was locked up, and that the housekeeper was nowhere to be found. They determined to ascertain the 'truth of this by pro- ceeding to his house en masse. They found 'the doors closed and bolted, and every window was made fast and secure. " Give us an axe ! " said one of the company. "My foot will answer, every purpose again," said Morton, and with two blows the doorS yielded to his power. " My God ! " said Morton, springingback with hor- ror depicted on- every feature. Carlton raised -both hands, to his head, and fell into the arms of the bystanders.   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR,    ,     ' " What is the matter there ? " said one of the hind. ermost of the company. " Nobody dead, I hope." " There lays that dog," said Morton; " he 's killed him because he was the means of our finding him the other time we came here. Over that dog lays the dead body of the housekeeper, with her throat cut from ear to ear." "Is it possible," said Carlton, " that Dutton is a murderer?" " Yes, worse than a murderer; and he has not only killed one by his own hand, but indirectly he has been the death of many, and ruined many families, and, worse than all, he has defied God. He is in His hands. Although he has escaped from us, he cannot *escape from the judgments of God. We must next attend to this body." A note was found upon the body of the, housekeeper, signed by and in the handwriting of Dltton, in which he acknowledged the deed, and excused himself for it on the plea of necessity, as she had threatened to be- tray him into their hands. He therefore killed her to save his own life. He concluded his letter with the following words:  " Tomorrow I start for Mexico, and if any one wishes to arrest me, I will be ready to re- ceive him, as I intend to become the chief of a guerrilla band." After the body of the housekeerhad been decently interred, a description of the murderer was sent throughout the country, and a large reward was offered for his arrest. Again the citizens assembled to adopt some plans fortheir future operations, to obtain the lost children. Whilst they were congregated together, first adopting one plan, and then abandoning it to adopt another,   equally sure to be rejected, Mrs. Elmore appeared before -them. After thanking them for their efforts in her behalf, and after supplicating the blessings of God to rest upon them for their kindness toward her, she said -"I have determined to start myself, and endeavor to find my children. They are in my mind by night and day. When I sleep, I dream of them, and fancy they are in hovels of poverty, br in the society of the vile. I shall die if I remain here -I can only die in my efforts to obtain them. I hope to have your prayers for my suc- cess, and your assistance, as far as your several occu- pations will allow. I cannot leave you without expressing the hope, that at some future day, I shall be able to repay you for your efforts in my behalf." It was in vain that men by dozens offered her their services if she would remain at home.  She told them that no one felt so much interest for their recovery as herself, and consequently no one could search for them with such ardor. She told them that she should never return, unless she found some member of her family, for she commenced the search with the determination to sacrifice her life, if it was necessary for her to do so, in her attempts to find them. .She left her youngest child with her parents, and forsaking the comforts of home, and the society of anxious friends and neighbors, she sought throughout New England for those beings who had been torn from her. She went from place to place, inquiring for her children, and interesting every one she met with in her behalf, until the story of her wrongs was known throughout the land.  "    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, CHAPTER VII. "Then let me go, and hinder not my course: I 'll be as patient as a gentle stream, And make a pastime of each weary step, Till the last step hath brought me to my love; And there I'll rest, as after much turmoil, A blessed soul doth in Elysium."-SHAKSPEARX. Ten long years had passed away, and that mother  still sought, as yet in vain, for her husband and her children. She did not believe that .he was dead, as stated by Dutton, because every statement which he had made had been proved to be false. The snows of winter did not prevent her progress, nor did the heat of a summer's sun impede her journeys. In heat and  in cold, in sunshine and in storm, onward she passed, inquiring of every one she met, and interesting every one in herlbehalf. Friends urged her in vain to relinquish the search, at least for a few weeks, to obtain renewed strength. But no; she had a task to perform. There was a feeling in her heart, that yet she should succeed in finding them, and that urged her on. The youngest child, a girl of thirteen years, now determined, with the advice of her friends, to search for her mother, and so induce her to return with her  to her home. As letters had passed between them  every month of her absence, this was no difficult work.  Mrs. Elmore soon had"the pleasure of pressing her    HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     95 youngest child to her bosom, and of weeping over that as she would over her long lost children. "Mother," said her daughter Elizabeth, after her arrival with her, " you will soon die if you do not rest. Come, do not spurn and slight the child now in your possession, for the purpose of searching for those of whose existence even you are not certain. Return with me, and trust in God for the result." "My dear daughter," said the mother, "I know that soon I shall see my children and my husband. I cannot die till I have found them. Then we shall all be happy. It was thy dying grandparent's words, (You yet will be happy.' I believe it. And last night I had a dream; and I was clothed in rags, as I am  now, but a spirit came and touched me, and they were changed to sparkling robes, that glistened in the sun, and precious jewels lay around me, and as I touched them they were mine. And then I saw thyself, my' rosy child - and then a tempest burst upon me, but I saw thy father, and he scattered the clouds away, and brought my children, happy and fortunate, again to my arms. No, daughter, urge me not to follow thee, or else my fortune may be changed." "Mother," said the daughter, "( hear me! If you will not follow me to my home, then will I walk the streets with you, and share your hardships and your want. I cannot part with you; so take your choice."  It was in vain for the mother to use arguments to persuade her daughter to return they were all of no avail; and together they now grappled with their task,. and formed their plans for the future.  One day when they were walking along in a retired place, they were suddenly stopped by two men, who  rushed upon them from an obscure path. ,   -    l[:   96    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, "Madam, do you not know me?" said one of the number} "Know you?" said the mother, viewing him with astonishment, "No, I am sure I do not. Yes, man, I know you! You are are the man who has ruined me. Dutton, I know you to my sorrow." &"Well, madam," said he, for Dutton was now be. fore her, "I have come to see if you was not about ready to accept my terms. For ten long years you have walked the streets and roads of our country. Now marry me and be happy. Your husband has long been dead, and - " "I 'll hear no more," replied she. "I have answered this question many times, and I answer it now - I had rather wed a slave, yes, a dog, than to marry you, a murderer, and a man accursed by God." "Woman," replied he,!"I float in wealth and luxu. ry. I lisp my orders, and hundreds move at the sound of my voice. I am honored, respected, and beloved. Choose, now, between luxury-or death. I am a mur- derer now, and thy death cannot add to the list of my crimes." "I would choose to die a thousand deaths, before I would marry you. But where are my children?" "You shall see them and enjoy them, if you will comply with my request. Will you not do it for their sake?" said he. Sir, clear this path, and let me go on; I have no more to say."  "Madam, you are my prisoner. No dagger's point can clear this path; for here you see a pair of instru- ments, which the world's people profanely call pistols. They will speak quiet to your mind, madam, and prove a remedy against every wrong. Come, John," said   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     97 he, addressing the man, "you seize that girl; and I will take care of this woman." Mrs. Elmore gave three or four loud shrieks before she was bound, and just as he had completely secured her, a horse and carriage was seen rapidly approaching them. Dutton succeeded in dragging his victims a few steps into the woods, and as their mouths were ban- daged so they could not speak, he expected no trouble. He was disappointed; and although there was but one man in the carriage to attack them, yet he flung the reins over his horse's back, and rushed into the woods, heedless of danger and reckless of life. "Back, there," shouted Dutton. "' Go back, or you are a dead man." "Fire, if you please," said the individual, drawing a revolver. "But if you miss your aim, here is your death wound. I never miss my man." Dutton and his companion immediately fired, with- out producing any effect excepting a discharge of the revolver. "Help! help!" said Dutton, "I 'm  wounded!" and both decamped together at the top of their spe'ed. The stranger stepped up to the lady, unbound her, and expressed his pleasure in being able to release them, in the most manifest terms. "I hope that you are not wounded," said Mrs. Elmore.  "Not in the least," said the stranger. The stranger next proceeded to unbind the daughter. He gazed upon her in astonishment, whilst the color appeared and disappeared from his cheeks, and his knees trembled until they refused longer to support him. "Image of former days," said he, "avaunt! Why 7 '  '                4 \                    ' - ^   98    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, hast thou come here to'torment me? Thou art the image of a rosy child that once called me father. Thou art the image of a dear, dear wife. Where are they now? O, God! it drives me mad when I think of them. Would that I could see them once more be- fore I die!" "I hope that you may see them," said Mrs. Elmore, affecting indifference, whilst her eyes were filled with tears. "Why didst thou leave them?" ' Behold in me the victim of treachery and intem- perance. Woman, that girl is mine! I know she is! She can be no other than my daughter! Clara! Clara! Dear Clara!" and he caught her in his arms, whilst the tears fell fast upon her bosom. - She is my daughter"' said Mrs. Elmore. Your daughter!" said the stranger, viewing her with astonishment. "It is false! That girl is mine!  My wife is the mother of that child, and she was the opposite of such a being as thyself!" "Her name is not Clara -it is Elizabeth," said Mrs. Elmore. "Yet she is mine - my youngest daughter. Clara,  no, Elizabeth, will you not forgive your father?" lM rs. Elmore could endure this no longer. She rushed forward, and throwing her arms around him, exclaimed, "My husband! My dear husband!" -"Woman;"' said he, withdrawing from her embrace, What mean you? You are insane! You, a poor, ragged'wretch, my wife!  Ha! ha! ha!" and he laughed in derision. "My name is Clara Elmore. Ten years of care  and wandering from home and friends, have changed jne from a pnce fair and happy wife, to the picture of /      / HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     99 poverty and misery, but you, notwithstanding, are my husband, and that is thy daughter," As Mrs. Elmore said these words, she removed her bonnet from her head, and exposed her features to the eager gaze of her husband. Soon he saw the features of his wife in that haggard -being, and the sad truth burst upon his- mind. He dropped upon his knees be- fore her, and begged and implored her forgiveness for the wrongs he had done her. "Forgive me! forgive me!" he cried. "Here, take this dagger, and plunge it in my bosom, that I may atone for my faults and the wrongs that I have done you ; but O, let me die forgiven! ' Tis all I ask! Grant me that!" "Forgive you!" said she. "Do you ask me to for- give you? Years ago I forgave you in tears, before my God. I do it now. Here is the hand that years ago you took at the bridal altar, and promised to love, cherish, and protect its owner. Will you take it now?" "I take it! And here, before heaven, I promise to protect it! I will cherish it in my bosom, and I will protect it from the storms and the tempests of life. I promise on this never again to touch the fatal cup, and to beware of the gambling table, which before proved my ruin!" "Then we are one again." That day was a blessed day for William Elmore. It was a day in which he acknowledged his former errors. It was a day in which he received forgiveness. for the past, and in which he pledged himself forever to abstain fram everything that intoxieates, as he long before had done e.  That night sleep closed not their eyes. They   : They.. ,   100    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, passed it in forming plans for the future, and in narra- ting their sufferings.- Now Mrs. Elmore had some one on whom she could depend, and she surrendered the future search for her children into his hands, and consented to return home and patiently submit tothe wise dispensations of an overruling Providence. Elmore gave his wife the following history of his life from the time that he deserted her. He felt sensi- ble of the amount of wrong which he had done her, and he fled from her presence - from a being whom he had wronged too deeply ever again to behold-- as well, also, as to avoid everything which could remind him of his former affluence and present disgrace. After his reformation, he frequently determined to return to his home, but he felt that the frowns of his wife would banish him from her society, and that she would trample him in the dust, when she thought of the calamities which he had occasioned her. It was in vain that he thought of her former love and tender- ness toward him. It was in vain that he thought she might be the means of restoring her children again to her arms, as every argument met with an immediate reply, and every impulse which moved him to return, met with a score of ready rejoinders. His unexpected meeting with his wife dispelled in an instant every shadow of her displeasure, and ushered. him into a condition of repose from these harassing thoughts. Thoughts of his children indeed filled his mind with sorrow, but the providential meeting with his wife he considered the harbinger of the return of his children to their desolate home. Elmore left the house of Eaton by night, and in dis- guise he proceeded to New York, where for two years he was found in the lowest and most degraded rum-    HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     01 [01 shops of that immense city. He passed much of his time in begging in the streets, of the unwary, or of the more opulent customers; and the money thus ob- tained he squandered in the gratification of an inordi- nate appetite for spirit, or in gambling with the more reduced customers. Frequently he found himself the winner at the gambling table, and then his former be- nevolence would return, and all would share in his prodigality, until, penniless, he would be compelled to beg for more. The first two years which he passed in New York were merely the repetition of this or similar scenes; and, although he sank lower and lower in degradation, he was frequently successful in obtaining the donations of the liberal, and in increasing them by his skill at the gambling table. As long as his money lasted, he was surrounded by devoted friends, but in the want of that desideratum, none cared to remember him or his bounty. One day after he had lost his last cent by gambling, he sought in vain to beg a few coppers. For three days he was alike unsuccessful, until he was very near the state of starvation. In vain he begged for a pit- tance which would prove sufficient to satisfy the demands of nature. For three days he had eaten nothing, and for twenty-four hours he had not drank a drop ogspirit. His landlord positively refused to trust him for the payment of a dime, and those who had formerly profited by his liberality, refused also to benefit the one from whom so frequently they had obtained favors. Driven to desperation, he again attempted to obtain a pittance for subsistence, and upon meeting a person who had frequently befriended him, in the most plaintive tones he made known his situation to him,   102    THE .WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, The man, after viewing him in silence for a few mo. ments, said: "I have given you many times. You haves squandered my gifts in gambling; or, if I may judge by your appearance, my benevolence has fur. nished you with the means of your drowning your reason in the fatal cup. No, sir, I shall not give you any more." "I am starving," said Elmore. "It is- three days since I have tasted food. For God's sake, give me a few coppers, and I promise you that I will not waste this either in gambling or dissipation." "Here, sir, is a dollar," said the man. "See that you forfeit not your word to-day. I hope this dollar may do you good, and be the means of your final reformation." "A thousand thanks," said Elmore, "I give you for this, and wish a thousand blessings on thy head." Elmore immediately left his benefactor, and pro- ceeded to his haunt of dissipation. With a look of boldness, which he had always put on when he had been successful, he approached the counter. Carlton, one of the frequenters of that place, very appropriately denominated hell, on noticing his exterior appearance, knew what the result of his exit had been, and thus addressed him: Come, my friend, we 'll try our fortunes to-day to see who is the luckiest man." And suiting the action to the word, he took hold of his arm, and led his un- willing victim to the, gambling table. "N o," said Elmore, "I am starving. Let me have some food, and then I will try my fortune." "I can't wait for that," said the other, and corn mXenced shuffling the cards. "Cut," said he. "  No," said Elmore, "I tell you I won't."   HONESTY THE BEST POLICE,    103 "Cut!" was the response. "Sit down!" The weak and almost famished Elmore sank upon the seat, whilst his resolute companion dealt out the cards for his victim. "There," said Carlton, " may be you will have a pair of dollars to feast upon in five minutes; so let 's proceed." Elmore flung down his dollar, and being scarcely conscious of existence, managed remarkably bad, al- though he thought he was playing for his life, and thought he managed with the utmost prudence. It is scarcely necessary to say that he lost. "( O heaven!" he cried, as the possibility of losing came to his mind with its existence, " what shall I do? Carlton, won't you lend me a ninepence? I will'ask it only for an hour." ( No, sir," said Carlton;"I never lend money to such fellows as you are. Go into the street again; somebody will give you another dollar. I wouldn't lend a mill to such a fellow as you are to save you from purgatory." A gentleman of fortune, but a frequenter of this place, had noticed for some time the movements of Carlton, and sympathizing with Elmore, threw him a half dollar.  "There, sir," said he, " take that, and shut up your head." Elmore bowed his thanks, and flinging his coin upbn the counter, was about' demanding some refreshments, when Carlton stepped to the counter, took the half dollar in his hand, and the next moment sprang out of the door, whilst Elmore stood trembling with disap- pointment. "Carlton could n't wait to win that honorably," said V - '                    .  ]   104    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, the landlord. "Ah! well, it makes but little difference which way he gets it." Elmore then applied to the landlord for the gift of a cracker. "No, sir!" said the landlord. "I won't allow any begging in this place. I will fling you out of doors if I hear any more of your nonsense. Get out of my house, and beg your living elsewhere." The little strength Elmore really had, the excite. ment of the gambling table had deprived him of, and, sinking upon the floor, he crawled upon his hands and knees from the house. Seating himself upon the pavements, he picked up the dirt and filth of the street, and eagerly devoured it. After forcing as much as possible into his stomach; he sat there meditating upon his past and present condition, and his thoughts, as usual when he was sober, were not of the most flatter- ing description. He was aroused from his meditations by the landlord, who bade him instantly to decamp, or he should be compelled to give him some assistance in the shape of the unfriendly gripe of an "English mastiff. Elmore slowly regained his feet, and by supporting himself with the walls of the several buildings, he at last succeeded  in regaining his accustomed place, where he solicited the favors of the crowd. The first person who attracted his attention, was the samie person of whom he had obtained his last dollar. He was standing gazing attentively upon him, and every look was full of pity and compassion. From the moment that he had seen Elmore before, he had ever been in his mind.  He knew not whly it was so. He attempted to review some accounts - le could not proceed in his business, for the bloated, miserable       .           .c   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    105 being whom he had thus recently befriended, was be- fore his eyes. He had many times seen beings who appeared equally as wretched as the one now before his mind, but they had never attracted more than a passing notice. He next attempted to converse with his friends upon the most interesting topics of the day, but in this he was -likewise unsuccessful; that being was still in his mind. He next attempted to wait upon some customers, and although they purchased largely, yet still his mind was upon the miserable being whom he had befriended. At length, finding it impos- sible to banish him from his mind- he proceeded to the place where he was accustomed to find him. The result of this walk we have anticipated. O, Mr. Bradford," said Elmore, " for God's stake take pity on me, and save me from starvation.!' "You have eaten that dollar much sooner than I imagined. Does it rot satisfy you?" i"As' I told you before, my hunger has not received a morsel of food for three days. , They robbed me of that dollar. They dragged me to the gambling table, and compelled me to stake it. You do n't believe me - but 'tis true. And after they had torn it from me, although they knew my situation, yet they refused to lend me a cent, or even to give me a cracker." "And you call these men your friends, do you?" said Bradford, placing great emphasis upon the word friends. c( What are you? Are you a dog, to be abused in this' manner? Have you-not manly feeling enough to induce you to rise above your present de- graded condition, and obtain your own subsistence? I pity you; from the bottom of my heart, I pity you. Man, you must be dreaming. Awake to conscious- ness, and reform! Promise me, this day, that you   106    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, will commence to live temperately and soberly, or I shall let you perish. Choose, this day, between life and death -between honor and dishonor- between years of t4enlperance and happiness, or days, perhaps hours only, of dissipation and want. If you will sign the pledge- of total abstinence from every thing that intoxicates, and if you will religiously observe its re- quirements, I will not only give you food and employ- ment, but my home shall be thy home. "Sir, I will accept of thy terms. I, who never ad- dressed heaven in words without meaning; I, who never- yet swore falsely, do- here solemnly promise never more to touch the fatal cup, or stake my wealth upon a gambling table, come weal or woe, life or death, honor or dishonor! Will you help me now?." The words which Bradford replied fell unheard upon his ears, for the exertion which it required to make the last statement, overcame him, and he fell upon the pavements. iVarious restoratives were used, and he soon recovered sufficiently, so that after having been supplied with some light food, he was conveyed in a carriage to the residence of Mr. Bradford. The surprise of Mrs. Bradford was great, on behold- ing her husband bearing a wretched, ragged being, into their neat and elegant dwelling. She soon, however, learned his intentions, and she determined to perform her part faithfully toward reforming a gambler and a drunkard. -Her efforts were not in vain, as far as ren- dering his life pleasant was concerned. During- that and the next day,' Elmore kept as quiet as possible, but the day following he was arrayed in a decent apparel, and although'-his hand trembled for the want of a stim- ulant, yet he felt, far keener than he had done before, the evils whic6 he had done his family and himself, 'i X           .     M   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    107 O, Thought! thou angel, that illuminates the dark- est and dreariest pathways of existence; that soothes the pillow of the dying saint; that cheers the distant wanderer in his separation from the loved scenes of his youth and his home;' that ever causes the smile of de- light to mantle the cheek, as we reflect upon a life q benevolence, of virtue, and of truth; it is true that thou art a delight to the upright, but a curse to the vile and the unjust. Elmore, surrounded with luxury and the finest works of the artist and the scholar, could not but reflect upon his former home, to which this bore a striking analogy. Had he been incarcerated in that den of vice from which he had just escaped, he could scarcely have thought of home; but now its image was before his eyes--eyes which had not beheld, undimmed by debauchery, a being or a substance for months.  His thoughts led him from one object to another, until tears filled his eyes, and his sobs became frequent and audible, " What troubles you, my friend ." said BMrs. Brad" ford. "Have you a family suffering in want and pov- erty? If you have, they -shall be immediately relieved."             T'  "O, no!" said the reformed man. "Had. I been surrounded with squalid beings of wretchedness and misery, I should not thus have wept. Such a home as this was once mine! Once, I hada companion as fair as thou art! Start not thus; it is true! O, my wife  my children! I can never see thee more! Think you that as fair a being as thyself never could love a person so base and vile as I am? Once, I was a man; and I yet will be again, or I die in the effort to reform." He then arose passionately from his seat, and casting his eyes toward the glass, he sprang back in surprise , eshes          nsrrs   108 108s -  TTHE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, at his bloated face and distorted features. "Can this be William Elmore?" he said, and falling into a chair, he buried his face in his hands, and wept. "O, Time!" continued he, " thou hast broken the magic spell that intemperance and vicious companions tk]ad thrown around me! Thou hast broken it, too late for my happiness, but not for my reform." The kindest care was daily bestowed upon him, and kind and encouraging words effected much in raising him from a brute to a man. He was soon able to walk to the store of Mr. Bradford; to do some light work, and go of errands. Gaining strength, day by day, he was put to more laborious work, until sawing wood and the most menial jobs were considered, as a matter of course, those for which he was best adapted. Elmore felt too deeply the weight of obligation he was under to Bradford, to enter any complaint for this treatment; and Bradford knew nothing of his former position in society, and was consequently not responsible for giv- ing him any thing more than what he believed to be his true desert. Being unused to laborious employ- ment, he handled the axe and the saw with an energy which surprised himself, and soon his hands trembled not and his nerves were steady. "' Here, sir," said Bradford to him, one day, " is the pledge. Will you sign it? It was your promise, I believe." Elmore took the pledge, and laying his hand care- lessly upon the desk, wrote his name in an elegant manner.  i His employer viewed him for a moment with aston- ishment, and j then commanded him to go to the Intel- ligence Office, and obtain, if possible, a clerk, to supply the. place of Benson, who had been discharged that   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    109 morning. Elmore did not start with his usual alacrity, for he had hoped that the situation might have been offered to himself. Three times he attempted to speak and make known his wishes, but as often failed in the attempt. At length his delay excited the impatience of his employer, who, from having been particularlyw annoyed that morning, was altogether out of patience. "Come, Sir Beggar!" said Bradford, "attend to your business, or I shall have the pleasure of kickipg the second delinquent out of my store to-day!" Elmore immediately started upon his errand, but arriving at that door, he again paused in. indecision, and anxiously looked toward his employer, as if by intuition he expected he would know his thoughts. "( Begone, sir!" shouted his employer. "I declare! how impudent that rascal is getting to be! He was the best and most obedient man that I ever employed, until to-day. What, in the name of reason, is the matter with my clerks to-day?"    -  "I told you better than this," said the senior clerk. "I never saw one of these reformed drunkards but what showed themselves out before you got through with them. You had better dismiss him now, before he ruins you." Bradford stood gazing at Elmore in rage and aston- ishment, for Elmore was marching directly toward him. , What now?" roared Bradford. "Sir," said Elmore, "I hope you will not be offend- ed with me for my presumption; but I wish to know if you would not accept me for- for - for - a clerk, to supply the place of Benson." "You!" roared his employer; "was you ever a clerk?" - )   "O    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, "Ha! ha! ha!" said the senior clerk; '" he will be first here yet." ( I have been both clerk and proprietor," was the reply. Mr. Bradford viewed him for a few moments with Astonishment. Within a few weeks, his- repulsive manners: and loathsome form had been changed to a pleasant exterior with agreeable manners. In an instant, a hundred expressions were in his mind, which revealed a man of business and talents, and he was sur- prised that he had not discovered his talents before. "May I ask," said Bradford, how you came in this position?" "I spent my fortune in gambling," was the reply. "( You may step behind the counter; I will try you," said Bradford. -That night Bradford entered his house in ecstasies. - What pleases you, my husband.?" said his wife, throwing her arms around his neck. AA I have found a prize," said her husband. "It is worth thousands to me,  Elmore is that prize. I saved him from ruin by my timely efforts, and he is an accomplished gentleman, and the best salesman I have in my store." "How happy I am," said his wife, " to hear this pleasin/g intelligence; and now I recollect, he has often spoken to me of haleyon days and a happy home - of former wealth and luxuries - of an angel wife and rosy children. But I did not believe his words, and I thought that every word he spoke to me was deception. O, how delightful is the-consciousness of having been the, instrument- of doing some good to our fellow creatures Gj old can never purchase joys like these; . the wealth of the Indies cannot afford an equal degree   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    H of delight. Hundreds will undoubtedly, in coming time, be benefited by this single deed of our generosity, and although in future times our names even may be forgotten, yet still the effects of this deed may, per.- haps, last forever. This is a blessed thought, and; worth years of existence to witness its application upon. a single- individual. Day by day, Elmore became better known as a per- son of truth and veracity, and daily more confidence was placed in him, until he occupied not only the first situation in the establishment, but Bradford entrusted him with the performance of duties which he ever ,be-  fore had performed himself. For one year, he contin,- ued in this establishment, and performed all his duties to the entire satisfaction of his employer. At the ex- piration of that period, Bradford, having requested an ' interview with him, informed- him that, although he valued his services very highly, and would on no'con- dition dispense with his services, excepting it would be for his interest, yet he considered it would be advisable for him to leave New York. He told him that he would then leave his former companions and many other inducements to wander from the paths of recti- tude and temperance. 'There is," continued he, , an excellent opportunity for a merchant of small capital, in the State of New Hampshire, in a village peculiarly distinguished for the morality and industry of its inhabitants. I will furnish you with funds sufficient to commence business,: and you can refund the money any tilne you choose. As such an opportunity will not probably soon occur again, I would recommend that you accept my funds and proceed to New Hampshire as soon as convenient. Elmore accepted his offer; and after having many.   "2    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, times thanked him for his exertions in his behalf, pre' pared to start for his new home. Before leaving New York, however, he determined to visit again that house of sin, where he had passed two years of his checkered life. On entering the bar-room, he beheld his former associates, clothed in rags - the images of poverty and disgrace. Men who, one year before, had borne a respectable appearance, now were reduced to want and beggary; men who had despised him, as be- neath them, now condescended to beg a pittance from his hands; as a stranger they did not know, they sa- luted him with every title of respect, and used every means in their power to win from him the result of his application to business. Whilst one was offering to amuse him with a game of cards, another was hoping that he"would treat in the prospect of forming new friends, and another was silently examining his pockets to see if he could find any plunder. Without seeming to regard his proximate parasites, he stood viewing the objects in the more distant parts of the room. There sat Carlton - the man who had so frequently defrauded him -the picture of intem- perance and despair. He was apparently upon the / verge of the grave. Bloated or attenuated beings were lying in every corner of the room, in a state of beastly intoxication; and, behind screens, men were making or losing their thousands. In another, place, sat the man who had staked his last dollar upon a game of chance; and with eyes starting almost from their sockets, was awaiting the result. The same bloated landlord, who had doled out poison to him, now stood at the counter, and daily sold death and wretch- edness to his customers. The landlord stood casting   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    113 furtive glances at Elmore, as much as to say that he did not think he meant any good there. "Well, sir," said the landlord, " what will you have to-day?" "Nothing!" said Elmore, very emphatically. "Then what are you here for?" said the landlord. "I come," was the reply, " to see the place where for two years I was the slave of a cursed appetite. I come to see the place where I was kicked starving into the street; where I was defrauded by knaves, and treated like a dog. My name is Elmore. Would you know more? Look at me now, and contrast my pres- ent appearance with what it was when I left this place, as loathsome a being as any here. What has done! this? A life of abstinence from intoxicating drink. Beware, I say, beware of this fatal poison before it is too late!" "Come, old crony," said Carlton, staggering toward him, " do just treat me once, for the sake of old ac- quaintance. Fortune has favored you, and cursed me." "I will treat you to nothing," said Elmore. "For- tune has favored me, because I have abandoned intox- icating Stimulants-and devoted myself assiduously to business. She has frowned upon you, because you have drank misery to yourself, and degradation to "your family. Go with me, and sign the temperance pledge, and I will assist you, and I will promise you that your miserable hovel shall be exchanged for a comfortable home -that your rags shall-be exchanged for decent apparel and that you shall be surrounded with the comforts or luxuries of life, and have the favors of fortune." ,        'n *   "4    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, ,- You tell the truth," saiddCarlton; "I have long realized this fact, and my wif'e and children have told this to me hundreds of times, with tears in their eyes, and with hearts nearly broken by my conduct. Two of" my children lie buried beneath the clods of yonder cemetery. They died from the abuse which they re- ceived at my hands; and the attenuated form of my wife appears more like a skeleton than a living being. Last night she said that she should starve to death, for the family where she daily received the crusts of bread upon which she subsists, have visitors from the country, and she could not obtain the least favor from the petulant servants, even by the most plaintive story of her situation. I see it all. Thy presence has open- ed my eyes to my true situation - those eyes which have long been closed by that demon appetite for in- toxicating drinks. Yes, I will go with you, and reform." "Get out of my house!" said the landlord. "I do not keep a house for lazy, meddling, good-for-nothing temperance brawlers to attend to other folks' business in." "( It is not the first time," said Elmore, "( that I have been expelled from this house. Come, Carlton, will you accompany me?.' The pleasure of repaying good for evil Elmore en- joyed, as in an hour from that time, he introduced Carlton to Mr. Bradford, who, immediately after he -had signed the pTedge, took him into his employ, clothed him in decent apparel, and privately adminis- tered to the wants of his family. It was some little time before Carlton could do much work, as he was on the last round of the ladder, below *  r     HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    115 which Delirium stood, with outstretched arms and eager eyes, to hurl him into a drunkard's grave. It was nothing singular f6r Carlton to remain away from home a week at a time, in that rum shop; and his wife rejoiced in his absence. Carlton thought that he would not trouble his wife with his vows .of reforma- tion, for she had heard them too often to believe thein; but he absented himself for one week from her after his reformation, and he correctly judged she would be better pleased to witness the fruits of his reformation, than she would to hear his oft-repeated asseverations to that effect. At the expiration of a week, however, he returned home, loaded down with provisions for his family, which were the result of the munificence of Elmore.- His wife was seated over a dull fire, which was slowly consuming the last coals in the house, and weeping at the prospect of-- she knew not what. The landlord had refused to allow her to remain longer in his house, without all arrearages were settled; and she had not-a cent in the world, even to purchase food :for her chil- dren, who were crying for bread,the bounty from an unknown hand having that morning been consumed by her almost famished children. When his step first sounded in the alley, she thought it could not be her husband, for the step was firmer, and not the step of an intoxicated man; and after he had enteired the room; she looked around, expecting to behold the landlord, and to hear him order her from his house. She rubbed her eyes, and could scarcely believe her senses. There stood her husband, not intoxicated. His face was pale, and not, as heretofore, red almost to bursting. His' hands trembled; but he was clad in garments befitting a man to wear. J .    "6    THE WAY OP THE WORLD: OR, "Do I see a spirit?" said his wife, springing upon her feet, and gazing intently at him.  "No," replied he; " spirits and I have parted com. pany! This is a part of myself. Here are some pro. visions for you, partly the result of my efforts to reform, but mostly the gift of the being who induced me to sign the pledge." I will not attempt to describe the scene which fol- lowed. The children clapped their hands with joy, and a wife, weeping hysteric sobs, lay upon his bosom. "Why did n't you tell me before of your reforma- tion?" said his wife. "-I thought," replied he, "that you would be better pleased to see it than to hear of it." We willo now dismiss, for the present, the family of Carlton, with the remark, that they were removed by Mr. Bradford, the next day, into a neat and commodi- ous house, which was well furnished; the children were clothed; and a happy wife witnessed the magical transformation from poverty to the enioyment of com- petency. He soon became a well and industrious man, a kind husband and affectionate parent. Fortune fa- vored him now, and he was soon able to repay Bradford for his kindness, and to educate, by his own industry, a family of children, and to prepare them for respecta- ble situations in society. The efforts of Bradford in restoring Elmore to his true position in society ended not, it is evident, with Elmore, but one after another were reformed by his instrumentality, and by those, also, whom he reformed, until the benefits of this deed reached even those who were unknown to either of them, and future genera- tions would receive the bountiful effects of this one   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.      117 deed of disinterested benevolence.  Upon Mr. and Mrs. Bradford, also9 this was not without its beneficial effect, for in their old age they referred to their antici- pation of this, as sufficient in' itself to compensate for a life of trouble and affliction.   "8    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, CHAPTER VIII. "And when I look on this, the petty spray Of my own years of trouble, which have rolled Like a wild bay of breakers, melts away; Something -I know not what - does still uphold A spirit of slight patience. Not in vain, Even for its own sake, do we purchase pain." BYRON. In the conclusion of the last chapter, I have given the narration of Elmore, from the time that he deserted his wife and his home. In concluding that history, it remains only to say, that he left for New Hampshire the next week after his visit to his former landlord, and he was there when he was found by his wife. Their meeting dispelled all the fears which he had imagined in his mind in regard to her forgiveness, and with ecstasies he introduced her to his friends of the village. He was again wealthy; and after having satisfied Bradford in his demands against him, he was engaged in accumulating wealth, with no object in view except- ing a desire to banish from his mind the remembrance of his past life. All his unhappiness was occasioned by the absence of his wife and children. A part of these were now at his side. They wept tears of delight when the old homestead appeared to their view; and whilst the remembrance of the many happy hours which they had passed in          .       .   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    119 their quiet home, like the breathings from the spirit land, came over them.' And although the remem- brance of their sorrows and their sufferings came with them, yet they appeared but to add enchantment to the dim vista of future- years, which, arising like a spirit from a sea of trouble, seemed to dissipate the clouds that hovered over them, and to quiet the turbulent waves of an unsettled sea. "Happy, happy! sweet, sweet home!" said Mr. El- more, after his emotion would allow him to speak. "We come to thee again to cheer thy deserted walls, and to cultivate thy neglected fields. And once more,' said he, turning to his wife, " we will pledge to each other, to strive for happiness, for virtue, and for heav- en. Experience has taught us many lessons of misery and sorrow, and thus has qualified us to enjoy our pos- sessions, and to exercise toward those in suffering and poverty, a good share of benevolence and love." In the usually quiet village of R , all was bustle and confusion that night. Every one was anxious to inform his neighbors that the Elmores had returned, and each was desirous of hearing a history of his wanderings. It was a late hour that night when all of his visitors had become fully satisfied that they were familiar with all the most interesting incidents, and departed in haste to communicate their information to a host of anxious unfortunates, who had not courage enough to intrude upon the society of their wearied townsman and neighbor. In return for the information which they solicited, they imparted the melancholy intelligence, that many of his former friends and schoolmates had deceased; that Dutton and Godbold had not been heard from since their departure from R--, which   120    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, occurred directly after Elmore's mysterious disappear- ance. After having exhausted all their stock of infor- mation, and elicited all they could obtain, the company departed, after having heartily welcomed him to their village, and after having wished a thousand blessings to rest upon him and his family. On arising the next morning, Mr. and Mrs. Elmore discovered that ten years of neglect had made very evident impressions upon their most cherished places of resort. The flower garden, which had formerly contained the choicest flowers and ornaments, was nearly destroyed. The arbor, that spot where for hours they had enjoyed each other's society, had been destroyed by some rude hand, and its once thrifty vines, now dead, were a fur- ther evidence of the neglect which was visible in everything around them. His accustomed walks were overgrown with bushes, so that it was painfhl for him to venture into any favorite place of his former resort. The repairing and furnishing his building, the cleaning his walks, and decorating his gardens, necessarily occupied some time. As soon as these were regulated to his satisfaction, he next directed his attention toward the recovery of his children. He was well aware that they could not be found in New England, for Mrs. Elmore had trav- ersed, again and again, the, villages of these States, and despatched messengers from the borders of one State to the commencement of the other. He first, therefore, turned his attention toward New York, where, by the assistance of his former friends there, he was in hopes to find them. We will, for the- present, leave Mr. Elmore in his search for his children, whilst we return to Henry Elmore, whose condition we have not considered. - t .   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    121 Henry Elmore was left by Dutton in the State of Pennsylvania, with a person by the name of Blake. Blake was a poor, intemperate, and cruel man. Dut- ton told Blake that Henry was a cross, turbulent boy, whom it would be for his interest to flog, at least once every day, and better three times than once. He told him that his parents could not keep him at home, on account of his abusing the younger children, and he hoped that he would be successful in training hint in the way in which he should go. It was in vain that Henry attempted to remonstrate against such false- hoods. At every attempt to speak he was saluted with, "Speak when you're spoken to," or "Shut up your head," as the case might be. Blake promised to thrash Henry every day, and for a short time he lived up to his agreements in that par- ticular. He at first kept him a dodging about some- thing every moment of the day, but presently he began to pity the helpless boy, and to notice that he begah to grow pale and to look feeble, and he more than half believed the boy's story rather than Dutton's. He then turned him over to the tender mercies of his wife, and he was told to do her bidding. His treatment, whilst he was under her care, was very lenient; but after he arrived at the age of ten years, Blake again resumed the command, and repeated the floggings. Blake daily repeated his floggings, to extort more labor from him, until at length Henry became satisfied that he could endure such treatment no longer; and one night, directly after the- family had retired to rest, he cautiously unbolted the door, and started for New York. He took with him his entire wardrobe, which consisted of one spare shirt and a pair of stockings, and, begging his food on the way, by travelling night   122    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, ,and day, he succeeded in reaching New York in safety. On arriving there, he concluded to accept of the situation of cabin boy, with the first Captain who wished for his services; and upon offering himself to Captain Sandford, his services were accepted. "I guess you are a runaway," said the Captain, "and ought to be kept concealed for awhile. . You had better own up, boy." "Look at my back, sir," said Henry, (" and answer that question to your own satisfaction." Captain Sandford obeyed his directions, and declared, with three or four round oaths, that he never saw a back in hislife so horridly lacerated. "You are a little, ugly, I guess," said the Captain, apparently uninterested in the statement. "No, I am not," said Henry. " O, hear me, Cap- tain, and protect me! For heaven's sake, take pity on me! I have no father or mother here to protect me; and the man who has me in his power daily whips me, whether I do wrong or right. He will kill me if he gets me again. You will protect me, won't you?" "No father! No mother!" said the Captain - for those words touched his heart. "My boat, then, shall be your home, and I will be a parent to you, until you, can find a better one. You are tired now; go below and rest yourself, and tomorrow I will find enough for you to do." "I have not tasted of any food, Captain," said -Hen- ry, " since yesterday noon, and I walked all last night; and although I frequently asked for food this morning, yet I suppose that people get discouraged giving to beggars." -Captain Sandford viewed the boy attentively, and   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.   123 then he brushed away the tear that started from his eyes, as he thought that once he had been a poor, half-starved boy, as Henry was now; and he remem- bered that he likewise had run away, and was protected by a kind Captain, and favored by Fortune, until now he was a wealthy merchant, and sailed in his own ship. "Be very careful, boy," said the Captain, " and eat but little to-day, My cook is an experienced hand in such matters. I will put -you under his care for the present." Henry had-scarcely finished his allowance, before he was aroused from -his meditations by hearing angry words spoken upon deck, and it required but a few- moments for him, to ascertain that Blake had myste- riously traced him to his present abode. Denial, of course, was not to be thought of by Captain Sandford, under such circumstances. "Henry," shouted Blake, at the top of his voice, "come up here, you scoundrel! I 'll learn you to run away from me, next time." The sound of that voice caused Henry to tremble like an aspen, as he thought of his former hardships and his future prospects. He sunk down upon his knees, and lifted both hands toward heaven. His heart was too full for him to speak his desires, but that Being who looketh at the heart, could read its unutter- able thoughts. Calmly he arose from his knees, and slowly moved-upon deck. "Well, sir," said Blake, "you may commence a retrogade motion in double quick time. There are some birches left yet on Highland Hill, and we will use them over you, mny boy. Ha! ha! ha! How -good they will set, won't they? Come along!" said   124:   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, he, as he made a grab at Henry, who dodged behind Captain Sandford. The Captain appeared as immova. ble as a statue, not knowing what to do or say. ".Captain Sandford," said Henry, "I call on you for protection t But whether you protect me or not, I never will leave this boat alive, with that man! Beneath that wave I can drink repose from his cruelty and tortures." The movement of Henry brouoht the Captain and Blake face to face. "Give me miny boy!" roared Blake, clinching his fists in anger, and biting his lips until they were almost black. ," My son," said the Captain, "I know of no other way but that you must return with him. However hard it may be'for us to part, yet we must do so for aught that I know." "I have said that I won't go, and I won't. I never eat my words in such a time. as this," said Henry. "Captain, the man that bound me to this man, stole me from a comfortable home. He has no right to me. And I will die, clinging to you, before I will go with him. You have heard my final decision." Blake was surprised to witness the firmness of Hen. ry at this critical moment, and inwardly cursed himself for allowing him to escape from him. "Present your papers," said the Captain, "proving your right to this boy, or testimonies from persons who know that you came legally in possession of him." "1 have neither the papers, nor the power to con- form to your wishes. I obtained him of a stranger." The diction of the Captain immdiately changed, and his diffident and unassuming expressions were'ex-   HON BEYST POLICY.        125 changed for his harshest and most concise expressions, which dictated to Blake his orders. "Then leave my deck," said he, " until you have them. My right to. him is as good as yours. I will. lend you my assistance, unless you instantly obey my orders." Blake started forward with all his energy, to escape the assistance of the Captain, who was now marching toward him; but, turning his head round to look be- hind him, he stumbled, and in some mysterious man. ner, was precipitated into the water.? No one seemed in any great hurry to extricate him from his perilous situation; /but, at length, after he had repeatedly called out for help, and told them he was drowning, they threw him an old, decayed rope, which he eagerly seized. Hisfeet had scarcely left the water, when the Grope broke, and immersed him again in the. filthy wave. Again the rope descended; again it broke, and the frightened man consigned his spirit into the hands of Almighty God, thinking that it would be useless to pray for life, as long as those men managed the rope. The third time he was supplied with a suitable rope, and after tormenting him awhile, more dead than alive, they dragged him upon deck. Before he could stand, Blake commenced crawling toward the wharf, which he soon reached, and had the satisfaction of, escaping from his tormentors. "I sha n't charge you anything for that cold bath," said the Captain, as Blake reached-the wharf. "Guess you never went to sea before," said Jack. "Remember me to your dog," said Henry. "He is the only friend that I have on Highland Hill." Blake did not reply to any of the remarks of the Captain or his companions, but moved off with an ex-   126    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, pression upon his counterance, that you never would catch him on board a ship again. Henry Elmore was an active boy. He attended to the performance of every duty which the Captain im- posed on him, anti soon, by his activity and good humor, become universally beloved by all on board. If he had any faults, he never was corrected for them, and Captain Sandford always declared, that he never saw so faithful a boy in his life. The Captain even went so far as to say, that he loved Henry as well as he did his only child. Henry soon learned to &all him and his wife by the affectionate name of parents, and their only child, sisler. After two or three trips to Europe, Henry was placed at school, and by persevering application to his studies, rendered him- self, at an early age, capable of entering upon the duties of a seafaring life, which, indeed, he had never entirely abandoned. .At the age of seventeen he sailed as the first mate of a noble ship, with the prom- ise that the next year he should sail as her commander. The next year came, and Captain Sandford retired to private life, having surrendered his ship to the com- mand of his adopted son. It would be idle to say that Henry was not elated with his prospects, for he occupied a position which indeed rendered him an object of envy. He was the captain of a splendid ship; he had a kind friend and,^ protector; and he was adored by the fairest of the fair Ida Sandford, his adopted sister. He anxiously looked forward to the time when he should be possessed of a fortune and a character sufficient to allow him to offer her his hand and heart. He remembered that he was a wanderer from home, and had been a suppliant for their bounty; that he knew not whether he had   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    127 friends or not; and he determined not to merit the displeasure of his protector, by aspiring to the hand of his daughter, until hisfortune was made. Wewill now return to his sister Clara, whom we left at Mr. Foster's. 'She was humored, as was before mentioned, with every indulgence which they allowed their own children, and was treated precisely the same in every particular. She had taken the name of Fos. ter at their request, and as she advanced in years, whilst she became familiar with that name, she nearly forgot her own. The family of Mr. Foster consisted of himself, wife, and two boys, one of whom was about her own age, and received a collegiate education. At the time that Clara was eighteen years of age, the Rev. Mr. Clayton became pastor of the church in a neighboring town. He was distinguished as a great christian an eloquent preacher, and a learned divine. The formerly nearly empty pews were now completely filled, and seats were wanting to accommodate the anxious hearers, many of whom were obliged to return home without hearing the Word of God from the lips of this eloquent divine. They were tidings of joy to the family of Mr. Foster, and to the citizens of their village, when it was announced that the Rev. Mr. Clayton would exchange the nect Sabbath with their pastor. A full house and earnest hearers were the natural consequence of this movement, and every one was loud in pronouncing them the most eloquent, and at the same time the most practical sermons, that ever they had the pleasure of hearing. The aristocracy in general crowded around him, and after haying introduced him to their families, gave him their m  t pressing invita-   128    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, tions to accompany them home, and remain with them duringthe intermission, and after the close of divine services. But, strange to say, after refusing their invi- tations, he craved an introduction to Mr. Foster, and very politely insinuated that an invitation to abide with him would be accepted. The invitation was of course given, and he was a very acceptable guest to all, ex- cepting the one whom he most desired to please; that one was Clara Foster. She shrank from the sound of his voice as she would from the hissings of a serpent. She trembled beneath the glare of his eyes; and when he touched her hand, a cold shivering and faintness passed over her, and she therefore avoided him, when it was possi. ble for her to do so without appearing absolutely impo- lite. She could not reply to his interrogations, except in abrubt monosyllables ; and in him who all admired,  she only found cause for detestation; and whilst the Town - yea, even the County -were filled with the narration of the wonderful effects of his oratory-- whilst they were almost worshiping the man in the christian-whilst they were lauding him for-his ac- cornmplisliments- she only considered him the reverse of an honorable man. Clayton gave the following account of his past life. lHe said that he had been formerly settled in the South ; but upon losing a companion antd only child by death, he could no longer remain in a place where every object recalled them to his memory. He there- fore surrendered his charge to other hands, much against the inclinations of his people; and sought in Europe, amongst strangers, an alleviation of his trouble. He had now returned home, very much benefited in body and mind, and he entered again upon the duties   HONESTY\ THE BEST POLICY.    129 of pastor over a society which unanimously elected him for their spiritual leader. He was apparently about forty years of age--of ruddy complexion, and light sandy hair. He was of middle statre, an, was dis. tainguished for urbanity and a capacity to entertain all. Notvithstanding the manifest coldness of Miss Fos. ter toward him, Clayton accepted an invitation tot again visit them, with pleasure. Not a week passed without bringing Clayton along with it, who, by pres- ents and attentions, succeeded in wrinning Mrs. Foster's favor. Notwithstanding this, lhe being to whom she was indebted for his society, daily experienced a greater aversion to him, until at length she almost en. tirely withdrew from his presence whenever he called upon them She frequently entreated her parents to excuse her from ever appearing before him; but these. entreaties only resulted in her being compelled to listen to a lengthy catalogue of his virtues, and which con. eluded in the statement, "That she should be rendered perfectly happy, if her adopted daughter would marry a mninister of the gospel." "His looks belie his words," said Clala. "He says that he loves me; his words are bland and gentlet as the morning zephyr; yet when I turn to look on him, his fiery gaze is fastened on me, and his soul, methinks, is meditating tny ruin. And when he sees that I bet. hold him, his scowl melts to a smile, and his eyes look love. M  other, Ido not understand this. . Idetsthlmo Let that suffice. Seek not to enshroud me in misery." "( He is a servant of the most high God. He is a - star in Christ'sright hand. Speak not against one of God's children; but love him whom God ]oveth. I have not as yet commanded your obedience to my Yw  ishes, but from this time I lshall insist on your enter. i 9    130   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, taining him when he makes his visits. He will be here tomorrow evening; and as it is useless to dally in this matter, you will commence then, and I shall attend upan vour brother, who returns a college grad- uate. He will be with you for a short time, and I hope that his presence, together with Mr. Clayton's, will bring the roses to your cheeks again. You have grown very thin of late. I fear that Frederic will no- tice your melancholy appearance." Clara had' indeed suffered much in her appearance of late. This was occasioned by the insinuations of her mother that she should becotne the wife of her fa- vorite. 'She now sighed for an own parent, to whom  she could confide her thoughts and fears, and who, she- was sensible, would never compel her to unite herself against her will. She thought that she had a home, and hoped.,she had parents; somewhere in the wide, wide world;, but she- feared that she should never be ' able to find them; and then she would think of Clay- ton, and the-tears would come uncalled to her eyes, as she remembered the harshness of his look and the evil  in his eye, whlch she alone could see. . The arrival of Frederic J. Foster, the college gradu- ate, was an event which was anticipated with the greatest pleasure by the whole family. His arrival, at the. hour appointed, the following night, foretold a merry meeting and many visitors. After he. had be-* stowed the usual salutations upon the other members of the family, and arranged his baggage to his entire satisfaction, the first qulestion that he asked . was, "Where is Clara?' His mother accompanied him to her room, where she was found in tears. " What" is the matter with you, to-day?"Said he. "I never' saw you weeping before in my life. 'How j i. XlraU JAv J, IVEI   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    031 iand p^ale^ you are! Mother, what isthe occasion Mrs. Foster replied that she did not know of any important change in her prospects, with the exception that she had some very distinguished admirers. "I that so?" said he, after his mother had left the roor. i She says that I must marry the Rev. Mr. Clayton, because he is a clergyman, and everybody loves him  excepting  myself. I shun him I fear him!- I de- spise hisn! To-night she has commanded that I shall entertain him; but I had rather be 'in a dungeon i  "I will not brook a riiral for your love!" said Fred- eric.  "You tell my mother that you will marry a cleryman as soon as I  finish my studies, and not be- fore. You nmay sit by me to-night, and I will protect you from his fiend-like glances."  The arrival of Clayton, and his introduction to iher son, were events of great imrnortance in the eyes of Mrs. Foster.  Clayton complimented her son   very highly on his appearance, and every opportunity possi. ble alluded to his noble form and manly bearing. During his visit, his eyes were fastened upon Miss Foster, and he employed every art which he possessed to draw her into conversation. He was not totally unsuccessful, because she wished, as much as possible, to conform to her mother's in. structions. She was soon astonished, however, when she saw one after the other arise and leave the room, until she was left alone with Clayton. He arrse and dropped upon his knees before her, and uttered vol-  umes of earnest declarations of love, while he declared -solemnly that life would be worthless if he must be' forced to abandon her society, and faintly presumed to '         ,  I                   r, ; ..   132    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, hope that further acquaintance would produce similar feelings in her bosom. "I sincerely regret that you love me," said she. "My answer to your professions lies in these words." "I may understand by this," said he, "that I am rejected, I suppose. Do you remember that this is not your home - that your former home was a miserable hovel and your associates but a shade above the brutes?" "My home affects not the disposition I shall make of my hand and my affections But yet my parents, I know, are respectable; and when the truth is known, it will be found that I belong to a high family. But I hope you will press this subject no further, and save me the unpleasant task of giving you a refusal." "You are from a high family! Some of them I have seen with ropes around their necks, so high they could not touch the ground." "Do you know who my relatives are?" "No, I do not associate with dogs! I said I had seen them. I meant the Welches. I know nothing further about you or yours. As for myself, my life has been dedicated to the service of God; my situation in society is good, as you are well aware; and I consider myself worthy of a better answer. You are the only person in the County who would not be proud to be my slive. Will you not allow me to visit you? Per- haps a further acquaintance would improve your opin- ion of me." "No! once and forever!" replied she, "You have a decided answcr now." Then, Madam," replied he, " you ma --" At this moment the door opened, and Frederic Fos- ter- who had \been designedly sent by his mother to K.   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    133 a neighbor's on an errand -entered the room. Clayton was mortified at his appearance; Clara was delighted at her escape from her inamorato; and Frederic stood hesitating whether or not to throw his rival out of the room. The minister's vocation saved him. Their mutual embarrassment was relieved by Mrs. Foster, who, on entering the room, made two or three well- timed remarks, and produced apparent gootd humor again in the company. Clayton immediately retired, and formed other plans to obtain his intended bride, be- sides winning a willing hand at the altar of Hymen. Frederic improved the first opportunity to inform Clara that his mother had sent him on an errand, and. that the whole affair was undoubtedly her contrivance. He was also informed of her conversation with Clayton, and of his profession of love, and rejection.  ' Well," said he, after some meditation, "I will pro- vide against a similar occurrence; and vou may rest assured that you never more will be troubled with his visits. If my prents insist upo yur marryin Clay ton, our immediate marriage will of course preclude ir plans. One thing is certain, and that is, that this affair must be allowed to progress no further." "I never, shall consent to marry you, unless your parents approve of the union. They think that I was born a beggar, and Clayton told me nearly the same; but I know that my parents, could they be found, are in as good standing as yours are. I believe that I was stolen, although they say that the person who left me at Welch's appeared ostensibly to hold me legally in his possession. I hope the truth may yet be known.' "I care not for your position irl society. I care not whether you are a beggar or the heiress of a million If you are a beggar, and give me your hand and affec" *  -     l   ;  134    THE WAY OF THE WOALD- T- OR, -1 tions, I shall be happy. If you were worth millions, I could not be more so." Frederic next sought his mother, and after having mildly requested that Clara should ;be allowed to withy draw herself entirely from the society of Clayton, he was told that she had otherwise determined. "  Why will you torment her with that priest? Had  I met him in New York, I should have known thathe was a rascal. But now, clothed with sacerdotal gar- ments, he passes for a gentleman; and the same- dex- terity which would distinguish him for hisfillany there, renders him an angel here. The citizens- of a County almost worship .him for his godliness, whilst he is trembling beneath an almost insuperable burden of sin and iniquity." "Is it to conceal trransgression, that you think of donning those robes? If so, you had better change your location. But as for this man, I know that he is chosen by God, {or many have been converted through his instrumentality, and brought into the fold of Christ. As for Clara, she was a vagrant and an outcast when we adopted her; and if she will not marry him, she- may return to the hovel'where we found her." , No, mother, she shall not do so!" said Frederic, somewhat excited. "I have chosen her for my future companion, and I will not surrender her to another." ,t You have made a worthy choice," said the father. "aStop, prattler! My son shall not marry a beggar. Get her if you can, but remember that I can plan deeper than you." "Mother, lay your plans deep? but remember that ; love her, and her only, and I am loved in return. - If you wish to render your son and adopted daughter miserable, an opportunity has presented itself. GQo4 night!"   EST POLICY.    135 ' ep in that house that night, for, !       re  meditating upon love in a  ]o d molest- them; and the ': l^ to effect the union of Clara ? i1 8:. -The 'next morning she ... -, '  '   an apology for the harsh en the night before, and ex- : the choice which her son for life. After breakfast, ;         '- '  Obebrought to the door, and him:" of his further attentions to Clara. aarrival        at his residence, obtained a pr ,v gridwith that gentleman ; but the result of t eito   ns was just the reverse of what was anticipat   her friends at home. --They determined that three/ Bieks- from- that day, Mrs. Foster and Clara should stiart for New York, for the ostensible purpose of visiting some friends; that' Clay ton should meet them at the: depot, and convey them to the residence of his friend, the Rev. Mr. Stratton; and .that the ceremony of marriage should then be'per- formed, with or without Clara's consent, as the case might be. Clayton, previous to the arrival of Mrs. Foster, had already formed more desperate -plans for '   the accomplishment of this object, and was consequent- ly delighted with .the scheme of his favorite. Mrs. Foster, on the contrary, concealed- the gratification which this arrangement gave her, beneath the plausi- ble story, that it was with extreme reluctance that :she was induced to take this step, which she was obliged to adopt in performing the duties of a parent,   1S36   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, CHAPTER IX.. "PRO.- Then let her alone. VAIL.. Not for the world : why man, she is mine own; And I as rich in having such a jewel, As twenty seas, if all their sands were pearl, And water nectar, and the rocks pure gold " SHAKSPEARB. We will now leave Clayton, elated with the hopes of success in obtaining an unwilling bride at the hyme- nial altar, and introduce the reader into one of those drinking and gambling houses in New York, termed hells. Whilst attentive bar-tenders were pouring liquid poison for willing victims - for men, not sunk in the lowest depths of poverty and disgrace, but to well-dressed and gentlemanly-appearing men - others, behind screens, were whiling away their time by list- lessly playing their first games, merely-for amusement; whilst others, further initiated in a life of sin, were staking their first dollars, and watching, with their frames trembling with excitement, and their cheeks blanched with fear, the result of their first. hazard. Others, in a more retired position, were staking their thousands, and pouring down bottles of madness and disgrace to support and increase the excitement of a gambler's life. A person apparently unknown to the frequenters of this place, and whose countenance truly testified that he never had indulged himself even with a solitary glass, enters the room. He hurridly ap.   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    137 proache he bar, and concluding his business with the utmost destatch, he turns around to retire, when he is accosted b y'ofp of the most reduced and degraded of that comp/hy/but formerly a merchant of wealth and respectabi4lty., "Come,Jack," said he, familiarly clapping his hand upon his shoulder, "a glass of wine would certainly do you good to-night. I never see one of your pale faces without inwardly pitying them. You will die with the consumption, man, unless you take something to bring the color to your cheeks. Look at my face! It does not blend the lily and the roqe, as we read about, but it is ail rose; but yours is all lily; perhaps a medium would be preferable to either of our com- plexions. They say wine makes folks sick. ' Tis a blissful disorder, and I hope that futurity will bring no worse. Come, sir, will you improve by my advice Z" "You drink too much spirit; it will kill you," said Jack. Too much love nmakes folks crazy; too much fruit gives us the cholera; too much sun dries up vegeta- tion; too much cold destroys the farmer's hopes ; so that is no rule, you see, why we should not enjoy our- selves. Please be a man once; step up and treat." "I came here on business; will you leave^me? I have heard enough of your sophistry. You might have added, however, that too much spirit gives us the delirium tremens that's ally"  During t(is conversation, he accidentally heard the remarks of a couple of individuals, who were appa- rently enjoying themselves with wine and cards. Taking a paper from the counter, he seated himself still nearer the couple, who, being flushed with wine, conversed louder than they were aware of. He soon , " (    138    THE -WAY OF THE WORLD.: OR, ascertained that one of the-couple was about to compel a young lady to marry him against her inclination; and being a person ardently opposed to stratagem, he determined to obtain all the information possible, and to defeat their plans.. This was no new business for our gallant hero, as several companies of blacklegs could testify to their sorrow. His strong arm had often hurled-dozens of half-druriken rowdies out of the win-  dow, and often he had liberated their victims, and with some advisory words of caution, placed them out of danger. ' Soon, however, the couple separated, and one of the number, after walking three or four tines across the room, approached him and said, "Reading is dull amusement for New York; will you try a game of cards?" "With the greatest pleasure," was the reply. "My name is Clayton," said theelder man. "Can I have the pleasure of knowing yours?" "I will answer to the name of Jack." "Well, really, I am sorry to see you ashamed of your name. Take a- glass of brandy; perhaps it will render you more communicative." ( I accepted your invitation for amusement, not for bacchanalian revelry. If you wish to try your fortune I a'm prepared for you." "Presently," said Clayton. "But now I think of it, I have rather a difficult job on hand, and. I wish for your assistance. I have dozens of half-drunken dolts to help me, and a dozen more who wait but for my beck. But I must have sober men --men who have courage to act and the ability to plan. You will promise to keep my plans a secret?-" ( 1 will, and assist you, if I can do it honorably." ( There is a young lady, not twenty years of age, e    HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    139 whom all her friends wish to marry me. She seems disinclined to conform to their wishes, but tomorrow night her mother will compel her to yield to their and my wishes. I want your assistance to accomplish this, and three thousand dollars I will give you to lead these drunken caries, and implicitly obey my orders. I am pleased with your appearance; I admire your resolute bearing. Sir, will you obey my commands for that sum?.  , "The only reward I ask is a kiss from the bride," said Jack. "Then meet me here tomorrow night at seven. One such as you are would control an army of common men. You promise not to betray me?" "I have given you my promise once; would its repetition render it more binding?" "(I am satisfied," said Clayton. "We will dispense with cards to-night." Clayton then took a cigar, and passed a bunch to Jack for him to help himself. He then took a twenty. dollar bank note from his pocket and lighted his cigar with it, and after conversing a few moments with Jack, they separated. At the time appointed the next evening, Jack was al the appointed place, and after having taken a paper as before, he withdrew into a corner of the room, as well to escape observation as to inspect the movements ol the noisy customers. He had not long occupied this situation, before the same red-faced man, whose name was Vernon, again presented himself before him, anc commenced the conversation. "Well, sir," said Vernon, "you are a gentlemar tippler, after all the fuss. All I have got to say is your looks deceive you. Judging from appearances,   "O    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, should say that you had never even breathed the air from a brandy bottle." "Yoti are entitled to your own opinion," said Jack. "I have very good reasons in this case, from which I form my opinions. No man, excepting he was a drunkard or a demon, would enrage in this hell- generated undertaking. I am a drunkard. I go for -thelIiqu-or. But. if I had twenty-five cents in the world, I would see Clayton in my grandfather's millpond, be- fore I would help him; and degraded as I am, I tremble even now when I think of it." "Nothing worse than a wedding, I hope," said Jack. "'An involuntary wedding!" said the other, emphat- ically.- "Small old's," said Jack; " she is bashful, I suppose, and wants urging." "And no wedding at that," said the other. ; "What?" said Jack, in astonishment. "Explain yourself," "Clayton has hired an elegant house; he has fur. nished it in the most costly manner; and he is going to turn it into a gambling house, or - worse. He is a clergyman, you know. Ha! ha! ha! and the greatest blackleg -that there is in New York. I was a wealthy man once. He , enticed me into a rum-shop, and won my thousands, and then learned me to drown my sor- rows and disappointments in the fatal cup. My brother he also ruined; and then he got his lif -in- sured for ten thousand dollars, and told the landlord that he would pay for all the liquor he could get down him. He drank seventy-five dollars' worth of brandy, and that killed him. Clayton got the insurance. And hundreds of honest, honorable men of my acquaintance be has ruined; but we kiss the hand that kills us. oi ,  A, '    HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    141 He strews his gold to the four winds of heaven, amongst the vilest of the vile. He has another splen-' did residence in this city, where he supports those who worship hinm. He is lavish of his thousands to his parasites, and sparing of -his cents to the needy." "Man, you are dr'unk! Go home, and remain until you are sober, and then your passion will abate. You said that there would be no wedding to-night. -What mean you?" "I mean as 1 have said. It will be nothing but a humbug. You saw that ragged, dirty, drunken man, whom he was conversing with last night. Well, Clay- ton has bought him a suit of black broadcloth, a white necktye, and a pair of gold specs; and he makes the best looking clergyman that ever I saw since I was christened. His creed is original." "He has reformed, I suppose," said Jack, indiffer- ently. "Well," continued his informant, " that good-for- nothing rowdy is going to make believe marry them. Clayton promised that I should be the clergyman, and he has lied to me." "You- are envious of the honor, I suppose." is Honor! Ha! ha! I envy hiln the money he is to receive. If I had it, I might drink myself into a sleep which would last forever. But now he gives me but a pittance. But I have seen Clayton drink a dozen sets of men drunk in one night. -le will drink pint after pint, and the more he drinks the more sober he ap- pears. He is the very devil incarnate. But you, sir gentleman, whom yesterday I envied on account of your noble appearance and uprightness, to-day I de- spise, as beneath the drunkard." "I have not asked for your good opinions Will you leave me . "  --   "2    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, ( Yes, but in the hope that one day I may meet a dozen such as you as foes. O, how I would scatter them!" My legs would learn a new lesson then - to run for fear." The information given by Vernon placed the whole transaction in a different light, and increased Jack's responsibility; but he was not sure that the statements made by Vernon were correct, for he was a low and degraded man. He did not believe that Clayton was a clergyman or professed to be a christian, or that the last night's drunkard was to be metamorphosed into a priest; and he even went so far as to hope that it- would be a merry affair, after all. He was engaged in -these meditations, when Clayton arrived with his cor- tege. They all rushed to the bar, and began to call for their bitters, and to fo)rm some excuse for wishing for them. The first wished for a little something to drink because he was too hot; the next was too cold; the third had friends; the next, none ; the next was going to a wedding; the next was single; the next was mar- ried; the next was dry ; another was not dry; another was sick; another was happy ; another was miserable; and such-like excuses were given by the followers of Clayton, until they came to Vernon. .. " What is your excuse?" said the landlord. I;:  '" O, nothing, only I have swallowed a snow storm, and want to thaw the ice.' It is unnecessary to add that Vernon was well, sup- plied. They next started en masse for the residence of Clayton, which, after a walk of about ten minutes, they entered. Clayton stationed the most ragged and dis- gustinig of his followers at the door, and the more"!re. Bpectable in the entry and the other rooms. Clayton, i     HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    143, Jack, and one or two others entered the room where the ceremony was to be performed, and were intro- duced to the intended bride and her mother. There were nearly a dozen ladies and gentlemen in the room, all of whom appeared to enjoy themselves remarkably well, with -the exception of Miss Foster. She, only,- appeared unconscious of what was passing around her, whilst the pallid cheek, the frequent tear, and the wild and unearthly look which she cast on all around her,  disclosed the feelings of her heart. As soon as she saw Jack, she fixed her eyes upon him ; and the moment he was seated, she arose and placed herself at his side. "Could you not favor us with a more diguified name," said she, " than the one by which you was in- troduced?" ",You heard my name," said Jack. "Let that suf- fice." The harsh manner in which this was spoken brought tears again to her eyes, and Jack bitterly repented that he had occasioned them. "Kind sir," said she, after a moment's pause, "I am in trouble. What am I here for?" "Is not that your mother? Ask her." "That is my mother; but I fear the Rev. Mr. Clay- ton. Do you know him?" "Is he a clergyman?" "He is," was the reply. Jack sat meditating upon the- coincidence of this statement with the narration of Vernon.- He could not at first perceive any resemblance bitween the last night's inebriate and the officiating clergymen; vet the more closely he viewed him, the more he could discover the identity. He now believed the whole story of Ve-r* non and before he was aware of it, had flung his arms   i    h144     WA  O THE WAY OF TE WORLD: OR, around her, to convey her to a place of safety. Inan instant, he recoved himself, and as this was unnoticed by any one, he merely apologized for the occurrence to Miss Foster. "Had I no one to fear excepting yourself," replied she, "I should be happy." "Indeed," said Jack; "what do you fear?" Miss Foster obtained confidence at the affectionate manner in which the last question was asked, and re- plied: 'I scarcely know what to fear. I fear Clayton, -but he cannot think to force me to marry him. O, worlds would. I give, if in my possession, to be free from him! (), man! will you not protect me, and save me from Clayton?" ( Madam, remember that I amra stranger! Would you trust yourself in the hands of a person who has refused you his name? To escape the flame of a can- dle, jump not into the furnace!" ( Will I trust myself with you . A thousandtimes I answer, I will. I trust in an angel to save me from a demon. The first moment that I saw you I loved you. Thy features bring to my mind the memory of former years; they bear a resemblance to loved beings whose smiles once delighted my'heart. Thy form has often appeared to me in the stillness of the night whilst I was wrapped in dreany sleep, and saved me from every danger; and when I awoke and found it 'buft a dream, I wept to think that thou hadst left me. Say, stranger, will you not save me? We are not dreaming now. Slight me not. Turn not thy head away in derision. I know you will, protect me, for now I see the fear,-drop standing in thine eye. Speak, stranger, speak, and let me know the worst." ' ' '   ' '  '  ('-   W( ill you place yourself unreservedly in my hands, if I will protect you?" (I will. Will you defend me now?" Mada'm," said Jack, " youl may trust in me; I will be thy protector. .Prepare thyself for a conflict; but remember, if demons and men combine to ruin yod, that I will rescue you, ot my dead body shall be found  in this house. To-night I prove my love for you, by risking my life for your safety." The last words of Jack had scarcely been uttered, when Clayton approached them, and offering Miss Fos; ter his arm, requested her company for a few moments. She replied that she was very well -seated, and posi- tively declined complying with his request. A motion from Jack induced her to change her determination. Clayton, after walking across the room, stopped-before the officiating clergyman, and informed her that he"' was supplied with the necessary papers for consumma. ting their union, and that the object of her visit to New York was to be married to him. Clara turned her head toward Jack, who, without noticing her, was gazing intently upon the floor. She feared that he had conspired against her with the others, and she would not allude to his promises of protection. "Unhand me, villain," said she, springing to liberato herself from his grasp, ',I marry you! No, never'l Not so long as I have breath to answer No, or power to resist you! Let me go, villain, or worse may befall you!" "Lady! my love'! The richest treasure of my heart! H" ^pocrite, fool, wretch! Speak not to me, but iet me,",  om this house of torment!; -:-^ -10   "6    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, "Well," said the officiating clergyman, " if you re- fuse to marry him, I shall appeal to ,your mother; if it is her pleasure, I shall proceed with the ceremony i ' In opposition to law or reason? ' said she. "The laws have recently been materially changed in this particular. Mr. Clayton, will you take this womaf to be your wife?" Clayton bowed his assent. "( Mrs. Foster, will you give your daughter to this man, to love and abide with him during her natural life, to be the companion of his joys, the sharer of his troubles, to be the cherished object of his heart, to be his wife?" a I will," was the reply. "Never, never, never!" replied the daughter, "I will die' before- I marry you! I beseech you, go no further with this, lest God in his wrath should smite you for your sins. Mother, will not you save me from this man?- O, all have betrayed me. All have refused me the assistance which I need! Is there not one in this company who will take pity on me and help me? O God, dost thou also forsake me? Save me! Help me! for I trust in Thee!'" By the most violent efforfs she succeeded in forcing herself from the arms :of -Clayton, but she fell into those of his associates, who bandaged her mouth, and again placed her before the clergyman. "Madam," said Clayton, "( you are in my power. These men whom you see around you are all sworn to do my bidding. Resistance is useless; therefore, be calm, and reconciled to your situation." Jack scrutinized the emotions. displayed upon the features of Mrs. Foster with the greatest :ihterest. During the escaIe of her daughter from the hands of   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     147 Clayton, three times in her agitation she arose toassist her; but when she thought upon her promises to Clay. ton, she would fall back pale and trembling into the chair; again the blood would rush to her face, again she would arise, and again sink almost in the uncon- sciousness of despair. Her eyes appeared more like the eyes of a fiend than a human being. At first, their fiery glare would seem to mock all restraint; and then they would change to a deathke hue; then again they would cease to move, whilst she trembled in the most intense excitement. "We will now   conclude this ceremony," said the clergyman; "I pronounice yoll twain, one. Mrs. Clay- ton, I wish you a long life and a merry one." "Water! water! water! she has fainted!  Quick, quick, open the windows! More air! O, help her! save her!" said her mother. The motionless form of Miss Foster was conveyed into an adjoining room, and soon, after various restora- tives were applied, she was restored to consciousness. Her sobs and'groans were heart-rending as she realized her situation, and whilst she regretted that she had been restored to consciousness, she prayed her God to remove her from  earth, which offered her no further attractions. Jack was immediately at the side of Miss Foster as soon as she swooned, and by whispering kind words to her soon succeeded in calming her nerres, and even a smile of satisfaction might have been noticed on her cheeks.  Soon they began to circulate the choicest wines of Europe, which enlivened the company, who were unusually profuse of their jokes and rejoinders. ",- I am  disinclined to participate in your festive entertainment to-night, I hope you will-excuse me for   "8    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, retiring. -Miss Foster, I wish you to accompany me," said Jack. "Man, what do I hear?" said Clayton. "Whoev- er attempts to remove my wife from this place must fight-for her. Whoever first touches her, dies!" "She is not your wife! This is too gross a humbug for any being to countenance. Besides, I fancy the lady myself, and intend to make her my wife some day. I give you all an invitation to my wedding, whenever or wherever it may be." ".Seize that traitor," said Clayton. tHe then stamped his foot upon the floor, and the room was filled with drunken rowdies in an instant, who with unearthly screams and curses proceeded to accomplish his com- mands. "Seize him! hand him over here," was shouted- from dozens of voices, whilst five or six of the most intoxicated, and consequently the bravest, laid hold of him. Jack seemed possessed with the -strength of twenty men; with three well directed blows, he libera- ted himself from these braggadocios, and sent some dozen of his antagonists in any direction but the one they chose to go. His next antagonist was Vernon; one blow laid him prostrate upon the floor, groaning in agony. He-next made a bound towards Clayton, who ran for dear life. With a couple of blows he liberated Miss Foster from those who had seized her, and started for the door. One of the company seized a club, and in a moment of his inattention, knocked Jack upon the floor, and then seizing Miss Foster, again attempted to convey her to a place of concealment. Jack sprang upon his feet, and, filled with the impetuosity of a tiger, he mowed a path with his fists to Miss Foster, carried her    HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    149 with one arm, whilst with the other he cleared his path. Passing through the door with two bounds, he reached the foot of the stairs, and springing into a car- riage which he had ordered to await him, he was soon beyond the reach of .Clayton-and his associates. "I will give five thousand dollars to those who will bring that couple to me," said Clayton, as Jack reached the stairs. In an instant, a dozen of his subordinates were striving to force themselves out at the door sim- ultaneously, whilst those in the entry, and those further below, contented themselves by singing out, "Stoi the rascal!" The foremost of "this medley colnpanv reached the street just in time to see the carriage tura the first corner, to hear the whip crack, and the defia. tory laugh of the driver as he urged his horses forward. The whole company stood in mute astonishment for a moment after they had reached the street, ponderingf upon the manner in which they had been gulled by a beardless stripling, as they termed him, and then'the air rang with the shouts and curses of the bacchanals. The scowl of a demon rested upon the features of Clayton, as he'stood looking abstractedly up the street. At length, wishinB to be rid of his mongrel compan- ions, he shouted, "After them, boys!" and in a few moments he was standing alone in the street. He who was honored  with that appropriate sobriquet, , The Prince of Deceivers," was now 'outwitted; and  he raved like a  madman when he ,remembered that his large company of parasites had been beaten by this boy. He condemned himself for once supposing that a per- son of temperate habits, with his noble mind, could be induced to give his aid in executing a scheme so re*-- volting to the feelings of a man. This added to his anger; and he entered the room where the officiating    l 150   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, clergyman, Mrs. Foster, and Vernon, only remained, uttering curses upon Jack. His violent temper would not now allow him to conceal his feelings, and he kept nothing from his lips that his heart thrust forward for utterance. His brother divine lacked not in expressions of his rage and disappointment, and the air was full of the imprecations of the two professed ministers of God, which, as it commingled with the groans of Vernon, roduced feelings unknown before in the bosom of Mrs. oster. Clayton next attended to Vernon, whose arm had -been broken in the fight; and having sent for a carriage, gave him a purse of money, and promised to attend to his wants. Mrs. Foster had retired to a cor- ner of the room, frightened to hear such language pro- ceed from consecrated lips,-language which she had seldom heard from the vilest of the vile. The tragical denouement of her plans in regard to her daughter excited her very sensitive nerves, and she shook and trembled with a vehemence that threatened her death. She then realized the fact that her daughter had formed a true estimate of his character, while she had been deceived ; and she now feared that Clayton would, by some machination, again obtain possession of her daiughter. She thought that if she could again be placed in her own home, with her daughter, she never again would practice deception, even with the advice of a minister of God. And amid the oaths and curses that surrounded her, she offered many heartfelt prayers for the forgiveness of her sins, and the deliverance of her daughter. At length she became calmer, and having rallied all her strength, she requested Clayton to furnish her with carriage, to convey her to the residence of her friends,   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    1] At this time some of his parasites had returned; he dispatched one for a carriage for Mrs; Foster, whilst he made liberal donations to the rest. A part of them returned to their haunts of sin, where they passed ithe night in dissipation and revelry. A-part of them also continued their search for Jack, until a late- hour, Clayton thenaccomnpanied Mrs.-Foster to the residence of her friends, and although not a word was spoken during the ride, yet, at parting, she thanked him for this last act of his civility. After her arrival with her friends, and after having received many testimonies of their kindness, she nar. rated to them the events recorded in this chapter. She concluded that it would be useless to attempt to find her daughter in New York, but she hoped to find her the next dav on her return home. In case she had not returned, she determined to send her husband and son. after her. Whether Clara was now in the hands of a villain or a gentleman, she knew not; but she imag- ined that Clara could not be in a worse situation than she would be with her formerly adored Clayton. After passing a sleepless night, she arose the next morning and started for home, where she duly arrived. After narrating to her astonished family the events of, hea journey, with tears in her eyes, she begged their forgiveness, and promised if Clara ever could be found, to give her consent to her marriage with Frederic. As Clara did not arrive home at the time she was expect- ed, Mr Foster and son started for New York, in hopes of obtaining some information in regard to her, and if found, to induce her to return again to her home, al- though she had been betrayed by her adoptive parent. The carriage that conveyed-Miss Foster from Clara uo0n, stopped according' to the direction previously given    152    THE WAY. OF THE WORLD: OR, by Jack, at the residence of his father. After he had communicated the circumstances of Miss Foster's es. cape from a villain, they received her with open arms, and administered to her wants. With the assistance of kind words they soon succeeded in calming hei troubled mind iito a state of comparative repose. '"The recompense which 1 consider you are entitled to receive, I feel that I can never bestow. You have - rescued me from a fate worse than death ; but you may rest assured, that if a lifetime offers me an opportunity to reward you, it shall not pass unimproved," said Mise Foster. "I have one request to make ; I am more than satis. fied if you comply with it. I ask for thy miniature that I may daily behold a model of beauty and loveli '*-* ness," said Jack. Jack took the proffered miniature from the hands o Miss Foster, and after having expressed: his thanks fol ?-   the concession which she had made, he placed the chain around his neck, and started to transact some busines: which could not properly be longer deferred. On his walk to the office of his friend with whon the business was to be transacted, he was attacked bi three of Clayton's spies, who had unexpectedly founi him, and who, strange to say, recognized him. Jacl was taken by surprise, and for a few moments wit] difficulty maintained his ground against them; he soo; recovered himself, and they very willingly retired, some what the worse for the conflict. Jack then proceedei to the office of his friend, transacted his"business, an returned, scarcely remembering the affray until h missed the miniature of his favorite. In vai' did he return for the miniature, for, nc having a very correct idea where the affray took place   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    153 he was disappointed in his search, and supposed that some one had previously found it. Miss Foster, how- ever, assured him, that the next day, at one o'clock, he should be provided with another. Before Jack had retired to rest that night, he fell upon his knees before Miss Foster, and offered her his hand and affections. He told her that he loved her as he never loved before, and he hoped that she would consent to a union of their hopes and prospects for life. "From the first moment that I saw you," said she in reply, "I loved you. When I was at Clayton's, there was none to whom I could, confide my feelings and trust my life. The moment that I saw you, I saw a deliverer; I saw in you a being sent by heaven to rescue me from their power; but when you frowned upon me, I almost despaired. You have saved me. X I love you; yet I am pledged to another. I deeply re. gret that I am not free to gratify you; but fate has otherwise determined. I cannot reject you, for the love which I have for you, and the debt of gratitude which I owe you, will not allow me to do so. But yet I must." "Then. I am ruined! I flung myself into the soci. ety of Clayton to save you. I battled with dozens of men to rescue you. ,I have saved you. My arm has done this, but it will cost me my life. I hope you will be happy; but sometimes think of him who dies for thee! In a few days I shall find a watery grave, and be at rest. Be think not of me; think not that thy beauty won my heart; think not that thy frowrins have broken it." "s No, no, dear friend," replied she, throwing her arms around him, " say not so. I hope ever to live near thee, and to be loved as a sister. But I will   154    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, promise never to marry any being without your con- sent. Will not that suffice? Mine is a strange his, tory. I know not what awaits me; yet I feel that something is about to transpire which will change ma. terially my present condition and future prospects. Perhaps we may yet be united in love." The rising sun threw its light upon those lovers be" fore they retired; they then sought repose for a few moments before commencing the duties of another day. But repose was sought in vain by Jack, who saw in her profession of love, nothing more than an acknowl. edgment due him for his services in rescuing her from Clayton. Miss Foster had determined to remain with Jack for the present, as she did not wish to expose her- self again to the treachery of her parent; and she im- agined that her remaining there would tend to unde. ceive either herself or Jack; that it would establish a kindred affection between them, or one still stronger, deeper and holier, which would unite them forever in ath bonds pf affection and love,   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    3.5 CHAPTER   X. "Yes! My dream is realized! How beautiful-- How more than all I sighed for! Heaven receive A mother's thanks - a mother's tears of joy! This is indeed thy work At such an hour, too, -He comes not as a son but savior." After a year passed in his happy home, in arrange ing his affairs and repairing every effect of decay, and in meeting and welcoming his old friends and associ, ates, Elmore started for New York to find his children, I said his happy home. Yes, his home was a happy one, although he was deprived of three of his children, He was happy in a loved wife and a darling child; and Time, that healer of all our woes, had produced great changes in his feelings, as well as in those of his companion. She was happy, because one of her family had been restored to her; and she surrendered all into his hands, whilst he invoked the blessings of the aSuh preme Being to rest upon him and his efforts to obtain her children. After his arrival at New York, by night and day he traversed the streets, and searched every rumshop and' every resort of crime and dissipation, to find his child- ren. He knew that such places would be the haunts of Godbold and Dutton, unless they had changed their course of conduct; and. if they had, they would have restored his children. Every ragged, dirty being,   156    THE -WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, whom he supposed to be about the age or size of his children, he scrutinized, to see if he could -not discover a resemblance between them and those whom he de- sired to find. Frequently he stopped to converse with them, and after inquiring their name and lineage, he would communicate to them the object of his visit to New York. For weeks he continued in the same course, until nearly every street in that city had been visited, and he had been unsuccessful. Dispirited and discouraged, he would retire at night, but before the sun arose in the morning, he would engage in the search, again to re- tire at night, sorrowful and sad. One day he had been particularly unsuccessful, for many times he had been ridiculed in reply to his in. terrogations, and in a state bordering upon despair he sought the hotel. He retired to his chamber without partaking of the luxuries of the table, and relieved his heart from a share of the burden which oppressed it, by indulging in tears. He wept long and bitterly, but toward morning he became so completely fatigued that he sunk into a troubled slumber. He dreamed that he saw the spirit of his father frowning upon him. "' Why dost thou frown upon me?" cried he. "Have 1 not reformed? Have I, not brought forth fruits which have rendered me worthy of thy forgive- ness? Spirit! frown not upon me more, but lead me to my children! iWhy let me search further? Is it thy pleasure that I and thy family shall be tormented?. Is it -th^leasure that Dutton shall realize his curse upon us? O, father! help me!" "You have brought my grey hairs down with sorN row to the grave!" said the spirit. - "Is that a Drooer reason why you should render me   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    157 and thy grandchildren miserable? Have we not been tormented enough for my folly? Have I not suffered enough for the unhappiness I occasi(,ned you? Gladly would I weep an ocean of tears, if that would recall the suffering which you experienced. Name my penance, but restore my children. Shall I consign my life to a hermitage? or, clad- in sackcloth and sitting in ashes, shall I atone for my folly? Speak, Spirit'! but restore my children!" The sable clouds which had enveloped him began to disappear; his features, which before had been con- tracted by frowns, began to regain their usual appear. ance, until soon he was surrounded with a halo of sparkling lustre. The spirit stood upon the rainbow of Hope, and the Word of God was his crown. He stooped, and tenderly caught his son in his arms, and spoke kind-words, and forgave him for his misdeeds. "Where are my children?" said the son. "Arise, arise, arise!", said the spirit; 1"they are there! they are there! they are there!" Elmore sprang from his bed, and rushed forward in the direction' pointed by the spirit, Until he reached the door; his contact with that served not only to awaken him, but also to convince him that his children were not there. He then seated hims'elf on the side of 'his, bed, and reflected' upon his singular dream, and his fruitless task; and, as it was the hour when the most industrious or the most depender of the inhabitants of that vast city would commence ilr routines of la- bor, he descended' the stairs and ',i:ffiestret et to street as usual. In passing through B--: a Street. distinguished as the residence of the wealt ild aris- tocratic, he accidentally stumbled over some movable object on the sidewalk, and sent it some few steps in advance of him; without hoticing the object, he was   15 8   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, passing- on, when his foot again came in contact with it, and again it was sent violently some steps in ad. vance of him; again he passed on; again he stumbled and fell over that trifle which seemed to be striving to produce his destruction. He put his hand upon it to hurl it into the street, when, discovering that it was a miniature, he placed it in his pocket, and continued his search until the breakfast hour. After breakfast, he was about leaving [the hotel, when he recollected the miniature, and, taking it from his pocket, he gave it to the landlord. "Here, sir," said he, " is a miniature which I found this morning. I place it in your hands, in the hope that you may succeed in finding the owner." is "By heavens!" said the landlord, viewing it, " it is a lovely'picture. This gem should be encircled with -diamonds. You might worship this and not commit sin, for 't is too lovely to be the likeness of any tiling ont or about this earth. Stranger, be not so melancholy. Come, look at this picture; 't will cheer you up. Ii your lost children are as beautiful as this, I do not wonder that you are sad." Elmore reluctantly took the miniature in his hands, and slowly opening it, viewed the fair form of Clara Foster. He struck his hand upon his head, and started back, whilst his knees shook with excitement. The little color which rolb his cheeks left them in a pallid hae as he gazed up that picture. A. You have fallen in love with her already, 1 perce ive.   :  ' "My daughter! my long-lost daughter! I should have known her had I met her with the market girls of this city. She is the. image of her mother. She is   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    159 appareled in the habiliments of the opulent, and not in the rags of poverty. Her countenance affirms that misfortune has not marked her for a victim. Her smile tells me that she is happy. - I have seen enough. Thousands would Hhave given an hour ago to have seen this moment; and thousands now would I give to clasp her in my arms, and hear her history." "Thank heaven," said the landlord, ( you have been thus successful; you can readily find your daughter now. For a small sum of money, you can get a few notices struck off, stating that a miniature has been found in B- street, and that you offer a reward for information of the person whom it represents. Before to-morrow night you will see your daughter." In three 'hours from that time, newsboys who had been expressly hired for the occasion, were dropping these notices in every store in Broadway, and posting them in every conspicuous place, and attracting the attention of the crowd by their shouts, - , Miniature found; five hundred dollars reward offered for informa. tion of the person whom it represents." At one o'clock in the afternoon, as Jack was leaving the office, one of these papers was handed to him-; at first thought he considered that it was one of Clayton's manoeuvres to obtain possession of Clara; and he was proceeding home, when he thought that it might be the doings of Mrs. Foster, who wished to be informed of the situation of her daughter. -He concluded to pro. ceed to the hotel, and relieve her from further anxiety. The more he reflected about the' notice, the ,more his anxiety increased to know the motives which induced the offer of so liberal a reward; and he gradually ,ine creased his rapid pace until he almost flew toward the hotel designated on the paper. Almost breathless, ho   160    THE WA Y, OF THE WORLD: OR, arrived-at the hotel, and without waiting until he could speak, he pointed to the notice to supply the place of words. Happy to see you to-day, Captain," said the clerk. Do you wish to see the person who found'this minia- ture, this morning? I would take my oath that you was the man yourself, were it not for your age." "You have anticipated my words," was the reply. John, tell Mr. Elmore that his notice has brought him a visitor."  With trembling limbs and a fainting heart Mr. El- more obeyed this summons, for he feared that even now something would transpire to prevent his seeing or even hearing from his daughter. The instant he entered the room, his eyes were fastened upon Jack, who was also gazing intently upon the being before him. My God," said Elmore, " what do I see! An image of myself as years ago I appeared! Is it pos. sible that I have found my son, and. such a manly boy? Speak, Henry, speak! Unravel this mystery. Tell- me thy past history! Am I not your parent?" "Mr. Elmore," said the clerk, " allow me the honor . of making you acquainted with the gallant Captainm Sandford."  "Sandford, Sandford; no, not Sandford; his name 'is Elmore." "I was left," said the son, ' in the State of Penn- sylvania, by a man of the name of Dutton. I ran- away from that place, and have since been adopted into the family of Captain Sandford. My former name was Elmore." "Behold thy father! Henry, O, Henry! is it thus we meet?" ;, "  \   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    1 The m'anly youth caught the fainting form of his father, and bathed his forehead .until he recovered from his swoon. Then warm embraces and expressions of joy relieved the heart of the. father from the memory of weeks of fruitless efforts; and he forgot, in the so- ciety of Henry, that any other child required his atten- tions, or could be benefited by his efforts. That was,a short afternoon to Elmore and his son. It was passed in narrating the events of their lives, of which we are all familiar. Henry had forgotten his miniature; forgotten his promise to Miss Foster to be at home precisely at one o'clock, to give his opinions concerning her new minia- ture ; forgotten that he was a lover, or had friends who would be troubled on account of his long absence. The father, also, had forgotten his daughter, and whilst - they were buried in the sweets of paternal and filial affections, the hours passed rapidly away. "My son," said the father, "I cannot conceal the fact that I am desirous ta be informed of your princi. ples. Have you been educated to indulge in the social glass? Have you been educated to stake a few dol- lars upon the gambling table, merely for amusement? Or have you been educated to consider the wine-glass and the gambling table your greatest enemies, and been instructed in principles of hbnesty and in the worship of God? Speak, my son, and tell me true." "I was left, when but seven years of age, confined to a low and degraded family, and surrounded with as-  sociates as vile as themselves. The principles im- pressed upon my mind by a kind mother led me to despise their society and to avoid practising their de. ception. Three years of contact with such associatea erased not those impressions, for I went from them an "   162,   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, honest boy. Often did they whip me, until the blood ran down my back, to make me tell a falsehood, to serve their purpose or to save them from a detection. And when I was compelled to lie, to save myself from being whipped to death, I never shall forget the admo- nitions of conscience which I then experienced. I have worked my way from that degraded situation, where I was placed by Dutton, to the place that I now occupy. I am the captain of a noble ship; I never touched the wine-cup; I never staked a dollar upon the gambling table; I never offered to do so but once. I arrived at my present position by being an honest boy, and by unceasing application to my business. If you wish to know more than this of my principles, inquire of my enemies, if you can find them." "I am satisfied; the early instructions of yourmoth- er saved you from being a degraded man. Your next voyage to Europe must be your last; at least for the present. You now have parents and a sister to receive and to bestow on you, love. - We shall advise you; and you must learn to be-guided by our instructions." "( Thank heaven, that I have found you, for I need thy love now, if ever. Last night I saved a young lady from worse than death; I saved her from a vil- lain; I risked my own life-to do so; I contended with dozens to save her, but I did it, and alone. I love her, yes, I worship her; but she has rejected me. It she changes not her mind, I shall die." 4' O, my son, how deeply do I regret, that, now I have found you, you are a victim of unrequited love; but perhaps a mother's love and a sister's care may die vert your thoughts from her, and place them upon other objects more- worthy your attention. Do you know that this lady is worthy of your love, or have you an   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    16g acquaintance with her sufficient to warrant the contin- uance of your feelings?"    - "The first moment she saw me she came and re. quested me to protect her; she says that she loves me; but she says that it is with a sister's love; she cannot well say less. That I worship her is all that I can say. Previous to yesterday, I had prayed for this hour, that I might boast of respectable parents and friends, that-l might feel worthy to offer myself to Ida Sandford, the daughter of my friend and benefactor. I thought that I could never love another as I loved her; and Iam loved in return. But I, without friends, a home, or fortune, did not dare to lisp in her ears, I love you. But as the sun eclipses all the orbs of heaven, so she, my late-found jewel, renders all others of trifling value when I look on her. Had she a thousand faults I could - not see them, or at least I should forget them, as I be- held the sparkling lustre of her eyes, or as I listened to her melodious voice." "You describe her faithfully; but remember that many a fair apple hath a diseased heart. But you have not told me her name." "Her name is Clara Foster.  You have her minia- ture. I came for it to-day, but had nearly forgotten my errand, in the joy of finding my parent." The hearty laugh of Elmore brought the red blush of passion to the cheeks of his son, who said, "Is this the manner to administer consolation - by alaugh or a sneer?" "You may make your professions of love to Mis Sandford as soon as you please.  You have parents now who have wealth and respectability. Allwill yet be well  One sentence that I can speak will again rec   164    THE WAY OF THE WORLD : OR, store Ida Sandford to her usual place in thy affections, and render you happy." "Name it; name it; I entreat you." Clara Foster is thy sister." The color that mantled his cheeks disappeared at these words, his frame shook with violent emotions as he shrieked rather than spoke, "My sister! did you say she is my sister?" "She is thy sister," said the father, who cared not to conceal the pleasure which he realized in mentioning it s "I am rejoiced to find that two of my children love each other; and yet more rejoiced that I have found them in -season to prevent any painful conse- quences arising on account of that love. O, how re- joiced I am that you saved her from wretchedness!" Henry sank down into a chair, and sat meditating upon the revolution which .had so recently taken place in his prospects. "Well," said Henry at length, "I am rejoiced that she is my sister. Let us return to her now, for I long to clasp her to my bosom, and call her sister. O, fa- ther, how happy I am Is not this the work of God?" "Have you seen anything of Dutton since he left you at Blake's?" "Nothirig; but I hope that we may yet meet." "Where, where can Henry be?" said Miss Sand- ford. "He promised to be here precisely at one, and now it is six o'clock. I fear something has happened to him. Father, what time did he leave the office?" "At one o'clock he started from the office; he was detained from starting before by a press of business. If he does not arrive in half an hour, I will search for him."     "I fear," said Miss Foster, "that some of my ene-   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    166 mies have murdered him. Your son is a noble man; his manly form and his bright black eyes attracted my attention as soon as I saw him; and then his courage and bravery have merited my love. I hope he will not be injured on my account," "I'll risk Henry any where," said the Captain. "I have witnessed his prowess too many times to suppose that those miscreants can decoy him with all their as- tuteness, or if decoyed, to believe that he would not extricate himself from their gri by his superhuman strength, with honor. He would have been murdered long ago, if blacklegs could have done it." "He is a being," said Miss Foster, " that the more we associate with, the more we admire, and realize our inferiority to him. I envy you, Miss Sandford, your relationship to him." "And I envy you yours," said the other, with a blush. Miss Foster was very much disappointed when the hour of two was announced by the alarm clock, in not seeing the young Captain, because he had informed her that the pleasure of possessing her miniature again would draw him home at an early hour -certainly by one o'clock. She remained in a state of quiet expec- tation until three, but after that hour she passed her time in conjecturing what the occasion of his absence could be. At a few minutes past six his presence re- lieved the anxiety of the whole family. "Dear sister Clara," said he, rushing into the room  and, throwing his arms around her, "I will own you for a sister now." "Henry," said Mrs. Sandford, "I think that you have left a stranger rather unceremoniously to indulge in your fancy."           I t   166    THE WAY OF TE WORLD: OR, "Mrs. Sandford, I am happy -in making you ac-e quainted with my own- father." "Your father?" said the lady. "I have been accus. tomed to hear that title applied by you to my own hus- band. If you have really-found your parents, however, I am rejoiced." "The fact has been proved to rmy entire satisfaction,"' said Henry.. "Then, sir," said the lady, "I give you a hearty welcome to this ho0A. But I cannot dispense with the society of thy son. My husband protected him from an ignorant drunkard; we have educated him; we have guided his early steps in the paths of virtue; we have educated him in the belief and practice of the principles of the Bible. We know no difference He- tween him and our only child, and our deaths will leave them joint heirs of our fortune. You will assuredly allow us many concessions for all these favors." ,", Most certainlv I willl the debt of gratitude which I acknowledge myself under to you, it would be impos- sible for gold to repay. For unless he had found this or a similar place, he must have become an ignorant man. A ju st Grod has done better- for him than my most sanguine anticipations would allow me to hope. But I must enjoy his society for a short time, after his next return from Euiope."  Mrs. Sandford continued the conversation with him for a few minutes, during which time Henry retired into a corner of the room with the blushing Ida ; and although the conversation which passed between them was unheard by any one excepting themselves, yet the tear of joy which stood upon the cheek, and the lover's sparkling eye, told too truly the subject of their con- rersation. After Mrs. Sandford- had concluded het   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    167 conversation with Elmore, she turned to Henry ;nd said, "Will you not be a son to us now?" Henry raised the hand of Ida to his lips, and im- pressed the kiss of love upon it, and gently raising it toward Mrs. Sandford, answered, "( I will." The mother understood the meaning of that act, and rushing toward them, clasped them both in her arms, and distributed to each a due share of embraces and tears. "O, we are all happy to-day!" said Mrs. Sandford; "your father's presence has brought joy to this house. Great God, our destinies are in Thy hands. Thou hast in a mysterious manner protected the son; Thou hast found for him a home and friends, and now, providen- tially, his father has found him, to add to his prosperity and our happiness. May he never cease to remember- from whence cometh his prosperity, and ever praise Thee for all the favors Thou hast conferred upon him." No, mother," said Henry, " we are not-all happy yet, but soon shall be. You have forgotten Miss Fos- ter." "O, I am happy," said she, " because my protector is; and I rejoice with you because you -have found your parent."  If she had referred to her own heart, however, and spoke its promptings, she would have added that she regretted that Henry had so soon forgotten his professed love toward her, and had accepted another, even with- out taking the trouble to conceal it from her view. "You seem to congratulate me," said Henry, "on my having found my parent; how awould you like him for yours?" "We will not waste words upon that hypothesis, Capt. Sandford," said she, apparently offended at hisw   168    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, remark, in connexion with the circumstances which had previously occurred. "4 Elmore is now my name, sweet sister." "Ah, indeed!" said she, recovering from her pique. "Well, I can love you as well under that name as any other. I love the name of Elmore, for I believe that it once was mle." Henry, flung his arms again around her, and was bearing her toward his father, when the latter added, "And I was once your father." The necessary expla. nations followed, and in the embraces of father and brother she realized the enjoyment of her long wished for hopes. Another hour passed rapidly away, and it was occupied -in narrating and hearing events which are already familiar to the reader. She ceased then to be surprised that she had thus selected Henry for her protector at Clayton's, but wondered that she had not before traced the features of her brother in his, as she now most readily could do. The feeling of love which each experienced for the other was now no longer a mystery, and each was delighted at the denouement of their, not first, but second love affair whilst they, re- taining the same respect and esteem, only transformed the name of love to fraternal and sisterly affection. They were interrupted in their conversation by the entrance of the servant, who announced a person who wished to speak with Miss Foster. She informed the servant that she would receive her visitor in the room with her friends, as she expected that it wassome one who had been sent by Mrs. Foster, who had discovered her retreat, and who wished to inform her when her adopted parent would return home. She was mistaken; it was the Rev. Mr. Clayton, who, by means of his followers and parasites, had ascertained the residence,   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    169 of Capt. Sandford ; and one of them having transformed himself into a pedlar and visited the house, ascertained that the pseudo bride was there. Clayton, almost ale ways successful in his artifices, had invented a most plausible story, and- imagined he could easily induce, her to trust herself in his hands, that he might escort her home, whilst he intended, as soon as she was seated in the carriagre, to drive to his own residence, where he would claim her as his lawful bride. As soon as Clayton entered the room, his eyes fell upon the flushed countenance and passionate eyes of the elder Elmore; his cheeks were instantly mantled with a deeper red, and the next instant they blanched to a death-like paleness. He was relieved from his embar- rassment by Henry, who said: (i There is the door you came in at. Leave this house, or you will have my-' assistance. This is not a villain's home." Clayton waited not for the proffered assistance, or to attempt to dupe the inmates, but started for the door, eager to escape even a worse detection than that which he had experienced the 'day previous. "Stop! man! demon! stop!" said the elder Elmore. Clayton reluctantly turned, and demurely- asked-: "Have you any business with me, sir?" "Henry! Clara! my dear children! behold in that man thy greatestenemy - the wretch, Dutton! This is the man who swore and executed our ruin; who stole thee from thy affectionate mother's arms; who planted the first seeds of intemperance in my bosom, and who nursed their growth with eager hands. He is the being who made me miserable, my wife a wan- derer, my children beggars and outcasts, and who- last but not least--has attempted to ruin my daugh. ter. But, sir, you have gone the length of your chain. The tears and the sufferings of thy victims have gone   170    THE WAY OF THE. WORLD: OR, up to heaven, and your recompense is at hand, for the Judge of all the earth is thy Judge." "Pleasant thoughts to your Excellency! Good bye!"said Clayton. Clayton --or Dutton, as I shall now call him, for it was that individual--again attempted to leave the house, whilst the Elmores stood trembling with aston. ishment and rage. 4 I have not done with that man yet," said Elmore. "Seize him, Henry, and bring him before me!" In an instant, Henry sprang'after the flying Dutton, who, as soon as he heard footsteps behind him, exerted every nerve to escape from his pursuer. He soon saw that it was useless for him to attempt to escape from his youthful antagonist, and, drawing a revolver, he turned and discharged its contents at the head of his pursuer. The agitation of his nerves rendered the re- volver of no use to him. He missed his aim, and Henry, nothing intimidated, placed his powerful hand upon his shoulder, and informed him that he was his prisoner. - To offer further resistance, Dutton well knew, would be useless; and he therefore obeyed the commands of Henry, who after depriving him of his weapons, led him before his father. As the wily fox, who often had feasted on the farmer's gains, sees him- self surrounded by the eager hounds, and desperate men near by, and who want but their master's word to- tear and rend him, so Dutton stood trembling with fear and conscious of his deserts before the elder El- more, whilst the son stood at his side. And as a hun- gry lion, who had long watdhed for his foe, sees him appear, and with open mouth and fire-glancing eyes, stands ready to devour him, so the elder Elmore stood, with scarce power left to restrain his rage.   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    171 "( You have found your son and' daughter, at last," said Dutton. "No thanks to me." "I have." "I placed that son with the hardest-hearted and most tyrannical man in Pennsylvania. I thought that he would murder him in less than six months. I placed your daughter, in one of the lowest and vilest families in York State. She, like your son, escaped me, and was adopted by a family of respectability. I next attempted to make her my wife; but in this, also, I was disappointed. I induced your son to take a-part in the ceremony, in - order to make your anguish the worse. O, would that I had not, and she would now be mine; and you, ha! ha! would have been misera- ble! Fortune has favored you, and cursed me. I have been disappointed in you, also. I left you a mis- erable drunkard, but find you now a sober man. But, sir, you have felt the weight of my curse, for I. have rendered you and your- family miserable for years, although I fail in accomplishing your ruin. My curse yet rests upon you! Thy youngest son has not dis- appointed me. He is an outlaw, a villain, and a mur- derer! He waits but to see his father, to imbrue his hands in-his father's blood. But stop! I crave your pity, for I have been the worst sufferer for my iniqui. ties. I have no home, no wife, no children. I count my gold by thousands, it is true, but gold can not pur- chase contentment; and I have a crowd -of drunken vagabonds hovering around me, who, as long as I will glut their appetites, will bend their knees to me and obey me; but were I needing a greater favor than I bestow upon them, they would see me die before they would help me. No, I have no friends, no joys., no pleasures,"    172    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, "Then why do you continue to do such deeds of darkness? Honest men always have friends. Why not attempt to lead a virtuous life, and endeavor lo re- pay the world by-deeds of benevolence the suffering :and misery you, have occasioned?" a Man! you speak like a child! 'Tis the habits formed in youth, and the examples that are set before us then, that makeyour villains or your honest men. Think you that I can surrender those employments and habits which have cost me a life-time to establish, and in which I excel all, as calmly as your model mothers leave their children to their night's repose, after they have lisped from their heart's simplicity their " our Father which art in heaven?"No, sir; they are my life, and I cannot live without I am planning the ruin of some one. A few months ago, I was honored with the confidence of a town. They entrusted to my care the souls of the people. I was their pastor. They loved me. They lavished upon me the choicest gifts of their bounty, and lauded- my unspotted character, my unequaled orations, and my life-like and practical sermons. I was to them all that an angel could have been, and all that a god could wish to be; but I was not satisfied. I might have married the loveliest flower of the noblest family in the County; but no, that was. not my object, I went there to ruin your daughter! There was a demon in my heart-which was formed there by witnessing the unjust exactions of my father, and by harboring in my bosom that curse which I hoped to realize on you, which would not-allow me to refrain . from evil. The inebriate's cup and the gam- bling table feasted that spirit, until at length my joy was, to be called the prince of our vile band. This demon, which in fact now fills my whole body with-his  .                   .*   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    173 sulphurous breath, at first was only a spark which a mother's smile would have quenched; but it was fanned by a father's curses. Every good principle is banished from my heart, and I stand before you a --- you know not what! If you knew me-- if you knew the hundreds that I have ruined-- if you knew the thoughts of my heart, even, you would not dare to look on me! If there is a gulf of perdition, it will be my future home; and I am determined to merit it by making earth a hell!" "Dutton, Dutton! you speak like a fiend. Reflect that you are a mortal, and as such, perhaps, there is forgiveness for you. Will you not bring my -youngest son to me?" "Ha! ha! ha! No! no! no! He has been sur. sounded by men as bad as I am. He has been trained,- as I hoped, to educate the others; to love crime and deeds of darkness and death. But mark you one thing in extenuation of his faults: he kills before he plunders, and thus, according to good authority, renders himself heir to the wealth of his victim. Adieu, once more." "Stop, man, you are my prisoner. You are the murderer of your housekeeper. Justice demands your arrest, and you shall settle for your crimes with your country." Dutton endeavored to escape from the house, but Henry's hand was upon his shoulder the moment he attempted it, and that was a barrier which he could not overcome. Rage and contempt alternately filled the mind of Henry whilst he held Dutton, who was trem- bling in anticipation of the fate which awaited him. '"Is there no alternative?" said he at length. "Yes, there is one, and only one condition, by which   174    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, I will liberate you: promise to bring me my son, and I will leave you to others and your fate. You may thank your stars for this offer. -But if you reject this, within one hour you shall find a home where my power cannot recall you." ," Your son, as I said before, was one of a band of robbers. He is not in my power; if he was, I would produce him. The most that I can do, is to visit him in his den. If you choose to accompany me, I will in- troduce him to you. This den is in one of the South- ern States. Your wife, perhaps, would be pleased to see him. Send for her as soon as you choose, and the moment she arrives I will be ready to commence the journey. But you roust not expect to find an obedient boy, but a headstrong, ungovernable being, who cares neither for parents, friends, law nor reason. He may speak to you; he may kill you. For that I am not responsible. But this know, that if you deliver me into the power of the law, will die upon the gallows, laughing in the thought that you cannot find your son, and that he is an outlaw. Are my terms accepted?" "I shall accept them. One week from to-day I shall be ready to accompany you; but remember and be ' punctual, or I will search for you, and find you, if you are above ground, and I will bring you to justice. This is your only chance to escape me - remember! "I fear your people will suffer for the bread of life," said Henry, "if you desert them for so long a time." "I will- not brook an insult from a living being! I hope you understand me, as we must be friends for the present. As for any moral and religious principles, however, 1Pmust confess that I lost them in a steamboat explosion; they were all blown away. I shall not visit my parishioners, but shall go where victims are or    HONESTYqHE BEST POLICY.    17  5 most readily found, and where escape, in case of de- tection, Will be easiest. Farewell for a week." "Ha! ha! ha!" soliloquised Dutton after he had reached the street, "Elmore will soon be in my clutches, Fool that he was to. trust in me! I will lead him to his son truly, but in the hands of my friend Rockwell once, he shall die. Then his wife will be in my power and I at last shall triumph.  This assuredly will be the denouement of my curse." The next morning a letter was despatched by Mr. Elmore to his wife, informing her that he had found two of their children. He wrote to her of the kind care which an Overruling Providence had exercised over them, in delivering them from the abodes of sin where they had been left by Dutton, and in providing for them comfortable homes and sincere friends. He wrote - to- her that they had been well educated, and taught to rely upon their own efforts for promotion and success in life. He also wrote that the situation of their youngest boy was as yet uncertain, and he requested that as soon as she received the letter she would start immediately for New York, where she would be wel- comed by Clara and Henry, and then, in company with Dutton, they would start for the South, to rescue Thomas from a band of outlaws. Clara also despatched a billet to those friends of Mrs& Foster who resided in New York, and informed them where she could be found in case any of her friends wished to see her. Dutton also wrote an affecting letter to his beloved people, in which he communicated the pathetic intelli- gence, that his affairs at the South required his imme- diate attention, and he considered it very uncertain whether he should soon be able to return again, to   176    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, share the joys and afflictions of his people. He cont eluded his letter by expressing his heartfelt desire that -the blessing and protection of the Supreme Being might ever be granted them, for their kindness and at- tentions to him, their absent pastor. Having, there- fore, liberated himself from his sacerdotal robes, he passed the remainder of his time before his departure with Elmore, in drinking and gambling. Before noon the next day, Clara was favored with the society of Mr. Foster and son, who expressed their surprise on seeing her apparently so well contented amongst strangers. Mr. Foster also expressed his mortification and regret, in the severest manner possi. ble, that his wife had attempted to effect her marriage with Clayton, but he informed her that she was now truly penitent, and desired that she should be united to Frederic. Clara, on the contrary, endeavored to relieve him from his embarrassment, by expressing her gratification at the result of Mrs. foster's stratagem. "What?" said Foster sternly; "do I understand you?" "You do. And after you have become familiar with the circumstances, I think that you will agree with me." She then proceeded to communicate to them the facts already narrated, and concluded her story by in. troducing them to her father and brother. After he had been made acquainted with her early history, Mr. Foster recollected many things which had nearly induced him to believe that Clara had been torn from a home where she was-wanted and mourned; but when she had told him that her father left her with the man who brought her to Mrs. Welch's, he thought that a    HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    1" certainly she was not wanted at home, although she evidently displayed the unmistakable characteristics in her tastes and manners, of a person educated in wealth and refinement. But now that the truth became known to him, he was surprised that he had not be- lieved her story, and taken steps to restore her to her family. After conversing for a few minutes upon this, Mr. Foster said, "My daughter, you may see by this event that God ordains that the evil intentions of others and those events which we consider, at their occurrence the most unpropitious, sometimes become the most fa- vorable occurrences in our lives. Had not your adopt- ive parent attempted to unite you to Clayton, had not you suffered those, hours of anguish in his house, it is extremely doubtful whether you ever would have found your parents or brother. Circumstances indeed rule our destiny -circumstances which are in the control of Him who rules and governs all things. Indeed, 'God moves in a mysterious way His wonders to perform.' Let us trust in Him, and He will most assuredly mete out all our changes for us in mercy." The arrival of Mrs. Elmore was another propitious event which occurred within a few days. Her feelings on meeting her children it is useless to attempt to de- scribe. Hour after hour she sat folding them in her arms, and weeping tears of joy. Memory, in the mean time, was reviewing the past, and presen  to her view those .years of toilwhen sh had traversed the country for her children. Now it s emed more ike a painfl dream than a sad reality, as she saw the fair and manly form beforore her. She had expected to find -12   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, them degraded, but she was rejoiced to find that the precepts which she had taught them while they were under her care, had induced them to shun the paths of the dishonest and treacherous, had induced them to desert the hovels of sin where they were placed by Dutton, and, by the assistance of a Divine Being. had provided themselves with homes and characters. Deep, heartfelt prayers of thanksgiving she offered to God, for to Him, and Him only, she acknowledged her in- debtedness for her present happiness. The midnight hour came; still she could not retire to rest; ,first she would clasp her children in her arms, and then arising, she would violently walk the room, exclaiming, "Is is possible? is it possible? no, it cannot be! it is a dream." Then she would clasp her children in her arms in order to satisfy herself that she was not now dreaming. Again the opal-tinted morn threw a dim light upon that happy family before they retired. Then they sought a few moments repose before Phoebus appeared in the Orient, imparting life and light to the beings and productions of earth. -At the day appointed, Dutton was at the house of Capt. Sandford. Dutton appeared before the Elmores in a manner decidedly different from what he had ever done. He complimented Mrs. Elmore upon the fine appearance of her children ; upon their qualifications and attainments, and congratulated her upon her suc- cess in recovering them, as if he had been merely a spectator, and not an actor, in the perpetration of this inhuman outrage upon the rights of a fellow being. He joked with Henry, flattered the young ladies with remarks upon their beauty and accomplishments, and enlivened the whole company with his repartees and ready rejoinders. The same individuals who, an hour   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.   179   before, lacked words to express their abhorrence of the man, now convulsed with laughter, joined in the merri. ment which he occasioned, and forgetting to whom they were listening in the raptures which they expe- nenced, they gave a striking compliment to the talents of this wonderful man. The arrangements which they then made were, that Clara should return with Mr. Foster, and remain with him until her father's retrrn from the South. Henry; also, was to sail the next day for Liverpool; but after his father's return, he, as well as his sister, had deter- mined to pass a year at home. Clara, however, could not leave Dutton without informing him of the remark  made by Thomas, when years ago he administered cutting blows upon them with a horsewhip. She ad- vised huh to beware of Thomas; "For if he remem- bers," said she, "*the harshness with which you used us, if he is an outlaw, your life will pay the penalty for your blows." "I have seen him since," was the reply; " he knows me not.    *   180    THE WAY OF. THE WORLD: OR, CHAPTER XI. "Lone, wild, and strange, he stood alike exempt From all affection and from all contempt; His name could sadden, and his acts surprise, But they that feared him dared not to despise. M'an spurns the worm, but pauses' ere he wake The slumbering venom of the folded snakee; The first may turn - but not avenge the blow, The last expires - but leaves no living foe." In this chapter it is our intention to describe the sit. nation of Thomas Elmore, and to follow Elnlore and Dutton ill their journey to the South. A favorable wind and a clear sky occasioned them a pleasant voy- age and a speedy one. During this voyage, Dutton transformed himself into an angel of light, and by his wit and pleasantry rendered the voyage not only pleas- ant for Mr. and Mrs. Elmore, but also for all on board, who soon learned to reverence him as a being -of no ordinary talents. The more the Elmores became ac- quainted with Dutton, the more they admired his tal- ents, and regretted that early education and habit had not formed him a different being. He would have been an ornament to society, and an honor to the profession which he had' chosen to adopt, had the principles of virtue and the precepts of the Biable been instilled into his youthful mind. Often did they urge him to reform -to abandon his vicious companions and bad habits, and turn his atten- tibn from the present to a future existence. He would   HONESTY TEE BEST POLICY.     "A answer them with a hoarse and constrained laugh or a  Ai jeer; but in his most thoughtful moments he could not  i conceal the sigh, or even the solitary tear, which would  force itself from his ejes, in spite of his efforts to pre- vent it. He mas far from beidg satisfied with his con., dition. He, the merriest of that company, was the worst victim of grief. Before his drunken comrnpanions  he appeared insensible to every feeling of pity, and regardless of every feeling of morality and religion;, but they could not view his heart. Nl!o momus-glass was before it to expose the reveille of regret that con- science, awakening from its expiring repose, caused to beat in his bosom. Then he would regret that he had  not formed a different character.-- But now, too late to  retrograde, he must realpthe fruit as he had sown the !:1 seed.  Unable now to interest himself in anything but deeds more befitting fallen spirits than man, he still continued in   the same  road to ruin, whilst life was disrobed of all its charms, and death was clad in all  its terrors. After their arrival at their place of destination,  Dutton feared lest Thomas should fulfill the prediction  of Clara. He therefore brought every paper which he- could find, containing any account of the depredations of the band with which Thomas was connected, and, endeavored to dissuade them, by ever  argumentina his power, from  visiting their  son. He pointed out to them the name of the invincible Rockwell, the chieff. the band, whose name was robed with terrors. Column ifter column was filled with the exploits of this mani who was deemed no  less than a  modern Achilles. Fancy, indeed, pictured him ofa gigantic form, and possessing the strength of scores.  Bullets, it w as as.  erted had been seen to enter his body, but no blood    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, issued from his wounds, no groans escaped him; still onward he swept with his ponderous sword, which no one could withstand. He told them that Thomas was a headstrong youth, reckless of his own life, and per- fectly indifferent to the existence of others; if he hap- pened to be in ill humor when they visited him, he would murder them all with impunity. And he advised them, before continuing their journey, to purchase their shrouds, and to make the settlement of their worldly possessions before entering the future state. " We shall see him, live or die," said Elmore, " to test the truth of your statements. If you have told us true, he needs the counsels of his parents; perhaps they can make a different being of the outlaw." " "I will proceed immediately to their cave," said Dutton, "and will make arrangements for your meet- ing him to-morrow." "This is the last day that Elmore shall live," solilo- quised Dutton. "He will soon be in my power, or 1 in his. But yet I feel as if my own misspent life was drawing to its close. Shall I prepare to die? How? What can I do? Nothing-nothing but sin still! God has long since discarded me. O, Thought, thou demon, down! It drives me mad to think. I could endure eternal torments if I could only forget that I had sinned! Stop, prattler! Down again! I say. Thought, Conscience, begone! I must. murder El- more !" 1 itton had indeed told the Elmores much that was true in regard to their son. Thomas Elmore had been an ungovernable boy, and although some few years had elapsed.since he had been seen by Dutton, yet he was not materially changed.  Oftentimes the invincible BIckwell had forbid him the gratification of his wishes,   HONESTY "THE BEST POLICY.   183   and oftentimes he had threatened him, with his sword brandishing over his head, with instant death, if he disobeyed him; yet still the untamable spirit of Thomas could not be: imtimidated by his threats or sword, for he refused to obey him still. For a few of the first years after Thomas had been forced from his home, he was suffered to do nearly as he pleased by the band with whom he was placed. I said band--but there were only three then besides Rockwell; it had yearly increased under his superin- tendence, until now they were a powerful banditti. At first Thomas remembered the prayers which his mother had taught him, and refused to go t sleep unless he could repeat them, which he did amidst the curses of those around him. His artless simplicity deeply afi  - ted two of the number, and one of them became so much affected, that he abandoned a life of rapine and became a reformed man. - The prayers of Thomas re- minded him of those which his own mother had taught him; and after listening for two nights to his short pe- titions, he rushed from the cave and never entered it again. In a few months, however, Thomas forgot his prayers, and the oaths and curses which he daily heard, became early introduced into every sentence which he uttered. Daily he heard the narration of the exploits of the robbers, until their success or failure became to him a matter of interest, and he de- lighted to hear of the prowess of Rockwell, or the daring deeds of any of the others. Frequently a prisoner was brought to their cavern, and confined there a few days before he was butchered, and then Rockwell compelled Thomas to become hiM murderer.- At first he would refuse, but after having been flogged nearly to death, he would seize the knife    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, and perform the deed. After this had been repeated a few times, he performed his part with less reluctance, and at length without manifesting the least shadow of regret. With the exception of occurrences of this kind, Thomas was allowed to do as he pleased. At such times as these a smile of fiendish delight would rest upon the features of Rockwell, who concealed not the pleasure which he experienced in rearing a child for a life of bloodshed. As a necessary consequence, he became headstrong, ungovernable, and insolent. As soon as he could raise a rifle, he commenced the use of it, and soon became distingutished for the sure. ness of his aim, and his agility in managing the weapon. Having nothing else to interest him, he passed his time, in the absence of the gang, in practis- ing. with his rifle, pistols and sword, with a lad two years his senior, by the name of Northwood, for whom Rockwell evinced a great affection. After the return of the. banditti, these exercises were continued with them, and cards and other similar games, added to the excitement of a bandit's life. His rapid growth appeared not to affect his strength, which he often proved in his conflict with the strongest of the gang; and soon the rough and impetuous manner with which he used his sword, caused the bravest to retreat when he advanced toward them. Rockwell could not con- ceal the pleasure which he felt in witnessing the prow- ess of his protege; but a- shadow of sadness suffused his features as he saw the defeat of Northwood when- ever he undertook to cope with him. All knew What Northwood was his favorite - they knew not why- but they were astonished that he allowed Thomas to do as he pleased; for in room of murdering him when   he disobeyed his most positive orders, he allowed him to continue in this course with impunity. Unrestrained by any one, he soon began to accom- pany them in their cruises for plunder, and that, too, without obeying the dictations of any leader. He was naturally brave--he was fearless from habit; and when his companions were discovered and as- saulted by the populace, armed in defence of their rights, the sword of Thomas would work wonders in assisting them. Thus he won for himself the love of his associates, whilst at the same time they feared him whom no laws could restrain, nor threats intimidate. But he was the first to face every danger, and he never would retrograde until he was the victor. Northwood, who was a brave and skillful commander, was now  second lieutenant, and Thomas frequently accompanied him in his sorties. They were two brave boys, and their foes saw them but to die. Thomas and Northwood knew nothing of the Bible, and the name of God they had seldom heard spoken, excepting in oaths and imprecations. They knew that they were hated and hunted by the world, who wished to kill them; but they knew little of the laws that they transgressed, and cared less. They knew nothing of religion, politics, law, or any of the conventionalities of society. They had been reared in ignorance, in vice, and in crime. Their cavern was in an uninhabited section, and thus far they had eluded a discovery. Only one company of soldiers had ever found them, and that company were all butchered. At one time they would appear in one section of-the country; at another time they would be found miles from the scene of their last depredations; and thus, by continually changing their position, it was impossible  THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, for any one to form a correct idea of the place of their concealment. In vain the militia endeavored to trace them, for the same unconquerable spirit, which ren- dered Rockwell the terror of. the land, rendered him also capable of beguiling his pursuers, and of leading them a hundred different ways, any of them leading wide from their home. In one of these depredations, in which Jahaz, the first lieutenant of Rockwell, commanded, they entered a house, and, as usual, rifled it of all the money, jew- elry, and other valuables which they deemed worth the taking. Having satisfied their cupidity, the lieutenant commanded that the family, which consisted of five persons, should be put to death. The father and mother freely offered their lives, if the lives of their two children and a young lady (who was the daughter of a neighboring planter) might be sparedc   The request was denied them. Thomas was standing with his eyes fastened upon the young lady, when Northwood, approaching him, said:  "That lady is Emily Vernon. She is my cousin. Hour after hour, and month after month, in my earliest years, she was my playmate. I loved her.as I did my life; and I would save her now, were it not for the peremptory command of Rockwell, that no one shall oppose the orders of a superior, under the penalty of death. Her father is a man of wealth. Thousands would he give to save her. You - who obey no law - will you not try ? As you love me, save her!" Thomas stood speechless for a few moments. He was always opposed to the useless sacrifice of human life, and he had looked daggers at the lieutenant when he denied their request; but when he heard the   entreaties and screams of the young lady - when the ruffians attempted to execute the horrid command- he boldly stepped forward, and commanded that not one of the number should be slain. ' What do I hear ?" exclaimed the enraged lieu- tenant. " Stripling, dost thou attempt to advance thy wishes in opposition to the commands of thy superior  Rockwell swore, by his right arm, that whoever oppos- ed an officer's command, should die !" " I have nothing to do with your commands, either in obeying them or rejecting them. I have pledged my life for the safety of these people. My sword shall sustain my pledge. You may give my head to the dogs, if you conquer me !" "Any trifle among friends has its value. They will be glad of it, I suppose! Ha ! ha ! ha! You, who never dared to cope with me in our home, even for amusement, you dare me now, do you ? Come on ! I will prove your sword, as well as your life, worthless! You, who never yet obeyed a law, shall bow before me, and eat -the dust!" The truth was, that Thomas always despised the lieutenant, and would not gratify him so much as to parry with him.:,i He was likewise hated by the whole banditti, for the arrogant and dogmatic manner with which he treated his dependents. They did not pause, however, to meditate on these things. Both drew their swords at the same instant, and rushed toward each other with the greatest fury, whilst the anxious family were viewing the conflict which would seal their des- tiny. "Soldiers !" aid the lieutenant, finding that he could not cope with his antagonist, "cut this man in pieces !"  188    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, The soldiers did not appear to move. Obey me!" continued he, " or I will report you to the chief." "I *Will contend with a regiment," said Thomas, before I will allow one of this family'to be injured." The soldiers began, demurely and slowly, to move toward Elmore, when Northwood, moving from his re- tirement, shook his sword ominously before them. They had scarcely time to retire again, before the sword of Thomas entered the heart of Jahaz, and with one scream he fell lifeless at his feet. "I hope you are not injured, gallant sir," said the young lady. "I bear not a mark to' avouch my wound; but Cu- pid's arrow has pierced my heart!" "Will you accept my thanks, as the only reward that I can now offer you?" she continued, showing, at the same time,.her sncw-white hand covered with blood. Ah! blood upon that hand! I 'll kiss it off!" and he approached her. "My hand casually came in contact with one of their swords. You see how much I am indebted to you," said she, as she drew her handkerchief across the wound, to absorb the blood. She!d not, however, prevent his placing her hand to his lips, but blushingly said': "I admire the Apollo, but I fear the Siren! But can you not inform me who that individual is that prevented the others from executing the commands of your first lieutenant? His countenance seemed fa- mlia r." - "iNames are blanks amongst outlaws. He is our second lieutenant." And what office do you hold, sir "  - None. I am only a boy."   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.   189 "But a brave one, unless your exploits belie you, You are worthy to be their chief." "I have heard a learned outlaw say, that-Minerva assisted Achilles to slay the godlike Hector. Some modern divinity, not less lovely, .infused redoubled strength into these arms. Thy charms have done this." "Your comparison is unfortunate, if you intend to carry it further. Achilles fought to obtain a faithless, wife." "And I true one."  "Never can I be the bride of an outlaw." !"My friend," said Northwood, advancing toward them, " this division have unanimously chosen you for their leader, subject to the ratification of our chief. You killed our first lieutenant, and are therefore heir to his title. We are ready to obey you." "My first command is, that every thing taken from this house shall be restored. Lady, farewell! -We meet again." Having led his band of desperadoes unharmed   I through many dangers, Thomas at length brought them back safely to their home, well loaded with plunder. Two or three similar expeditions proved'the consummate skill of their commander, and united them still closer to him in the bonds of affection. Rockwell approved of their choice of a commander, and was si- lent in regard to the death of his officer. Thomas, by his subtlety, eluded the pursuit of the militia, or en- ticed them in a wrong direction, while, by dispatching his subordinates over the country, he ascertained the places where pillage was most plenty, whilst they per- formed, also, the twofold purpose of assisting the ban. ditti, when practicable, and of deluding their pursuers. His exploits soon equaled those performed- by the i.-   1 90   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR,  vincible Rockwell, and added terror to that name, already terrible. He never, however, banished fromn his mind the remark of Emily Vernon, that she never could become the bride of an outlaw; but he nursed it in his bosom, and many times seriously thought of abandoning his present pursuits and becoming an hon. est man, that he might obtain the only being whose charms he wished to enjoy. Emily Vernon thus pre, pared the way for the favorable reception of his parents. Presently after Thomas had become the first officer of Rockwell, the latter took the command of the whole number of his followers, and determined to penetrate into the richest and most populous section of the coun. try. The people throughout the State had become alarmed at the bold and fearless manner in which the ruffians had committed their depredations ; and compa- nies of armed men were marching in every direction to search out the place of their concealment, and to pre. vent their ravaging the  country. Thomas informed Rockwell of this, and advised him to desist from this enterprise ; but the chief was anxious to secure some booty which his spies had informed him was obtainable fbout this time, and he told his lieutenant that none but cowards wished to remain at home. "My conduct," was the reply, ( shall refute your in. uendo." It was in vain that Northcirood expressed the same opinion as Thomas, and told his commander that they, by being much abroad, were better qualified  to judge of these things than himself. Thi result subsequently roved that his officers were correct in their opinion. They ueceeded, however, much better than  their most sanguine expectations in obtaining plunder, 4d were xUrsng, when     ockwell -said: !  Lieutenant, who   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    19I knew best- your chief or you? I told you we could evade them." ' "We are not home yet." "No; but I cannot fight more. I am tired almost to death. However, I dream of no danger now."  The words were scarcely out of his mouth when  they were surprised by about three timels their own number, -who lay in ambush awaiting their return, They were taken completely by surprise, and Rock-- well, faint and weary, flung down his arms at the feet of Col. Sheldon, the commanding officer, and offered to surrender at discretion. This gave them  a few moments to recover fromn their surprise, when Thomas, drawing at the same time his sword and' revolver, threatened to shoot the first man who surrendered, and springing upon his enemies, he bade his comrades follow him, and con. quer or die. That was the hardest contested field that the outlaws had ever found.  Three times they fell back, and as many times Thomas rallied them, and led them to the  fight. He fought like a tiger; at every place where he appeared there was victory.  Rockwell, who had now  recovered himself, fought at his right hand with all his former might, whilst Northwood command. ed at his left. All fought bravely, but the conflict  : appeared doubtful, until, casting his eyes upon an- eminence, Thomas beheld the fair form  of Emily  Vernon, who, with other ladies, were encouraging his  opponents. It seemed to him that the sight of that being gave new strength to his arm.  He waved a recognition to her, which was answered; then he flung  himself upon the ground, to drink of the waters of the once clear and bubbling brook that ran beside him- .. '- 1 * "1 i   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, but now its waters were a commingled mass of mud and gore. He drank without knowing or caring what it "was. Then, seizing a sword from the hand of a dying man, he swept to the right and the left with a sword in either hand, whilst his opponents were flying through fear of him, whom by his deeds they supposed to be the invincible Rockwell. His face and body were covered with blood, and he fought with a fury such as the ravaging flames express when, in some forest of monstrous growth, they roar and sweep along, leaving no living thing behind; defying Death, he rushed madly on. His glistening eyes, his crimson sword, his defiant look, caused him to be taken for the Invincible. "I must check that hero's course, or all is lost," said the Colonel, rnshing toward him. " Are you the invincible Rockwell ? " said he. ( If so, one of us to-day rrfist die." "I am but a boy," said Thomas. "I am but a cipher when compared to him. Please conquer me before you dare to cope with the Invincible." " I never yet was beaten in a contest with my sword. I long to meet my equal. None less than the Invincible will answer my purpose:" "1Defend yourself or die! " said Thomas. A few blows were struck, and the renowned Col. Sheldon was no more. Both parties stood in mute astonishment during this conflict between their chiefs; but when the headless body of Sheldon fell upon the ground, the soldiers fled and the outlaws pursued them. None survived the defeat. Rockwell and his party retired, carrying their dead and wounded with them; but their chieftain was sad. After he had reached the cavern, he collected his fol-   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.       193 lowers around him and thus addressed them: " Com- rades, my arm has lost its power; my mind has lost its fire; my plans bear not that superior wisdom for which they were formerly distinguished. There is one here who possesses all I have lost. Shall I name him ? No, there is no need of it. Let him be your chief. I will be your lawgiver; he your leader. I will form laws; he shall see them obeyed. Comrades, you have been faithful to me - be no less so to him, and victory is yours." A reply was made to this by Northwood, in behalf of his followers, in which he said that, however much they were attached to him-- the Mars who had so often led them to battle - yet they hoped that their new chief might prove himself worthy of his situation, and be successful in leading them to new conquests and untried fields; that they would still continue to wore ship him, the originator of that band, and remember his mighty deeds and just laws -yielding themselves now, as well as formerly, the subjects of his wise com- mands. This event occurred but a few days previous to the arrival of Elmore and Dutton in that vicinity. The few excursions which Thomas undertook previous to the arrival of his parents, not only proved in a more evident manner his personal bravery, but served to ob. tain for him a stronger hold upon their affections, as they learned the more fully to prize him. Thus were Rockwell and young Elmore situated, at the time that Dutton arrived in the neighborhood of their place of concealment.  [94   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, CHAPTER   XII. "But thou, swear first, and covenant on thy part, That speaking, acting, thou wilt stand prepared *' To give me succor; for I judge amiss, Or he who rules the A rgives - the supreme O'er all Achaia's host- will be incensed Wo to the man who shall provoke the King!" COWPER'S iBtIOMEK, Datton left Elmore and his wife about five miles from the -cavern of the outlaws, and alone he went .to meet his old friend Rockwell, to whom he had entrust- ed Thomas Elmore. The two friends immediately recognized each other, and after the most affectionate greetings, Rockwell inquired after the health and pros- perity of his friend. "I am better in body than in ind,"- said Dutton. "Ah! officers after you? You had better Join our band; you would be perfectlyale here, as lone asthe powerful arm of Thomas Elmore is left to wield a sword, and as long as he has the power of speechto urge on his followers. He is as brave an outlaw, and as skilful a leader, as ever led a body of men to, deeds of darkness." , What? .He is not a leader, is he I told you to keepthe boy a slave to every man under your cornm mand. Why did you not obey me "    ("I tried hard enough to do so, the' Lord knows. You told me not to kill him, and many a time 1 held my sword over his head, and threatened to murder   .           , Y vi   HONESTY TH; DEST POLICY.   195  'him if he disobeyed me, but he feared neither me nor my followers. 'hreatenings could not intinidate him, for he would bid me strike when I drew my sword, and insultingly he would deride me. Had it not been for you, I should have butchered him long ago. Thus far you know, and you laughed when he trampled on my commands. The band all loved him for his reckless, untamable spirit, and soon learned to fear him. He is now chief." ("I am astonished! Thomas Elmore the leader of this banditti, which is the terror of the country! Well, I am ruined." "He is as cunning as a fox, -as skilful as a veteran, as bold as a lion, as noble as a god. He is a star-no, a sun, around which we all revolve, receiving almost  : our life from him. I, who once hated him, love him- yea, almost worship him, for in my younger days I was  just what he is now. But how is he to ruin you,my friend?                   '    1 "I will tell you. Elmore, although he was reduced to poverty and degradation, has reformed, and by in  dustry has again become wealthy. He has found the , other two of his children, who, in spite of my efforts to I keep them in degraded families, have escaped me, and are persons who would excite our -envy, rather than  I create disgust, as I determined. Elmore found me in  New York, and threatened to- deliver me into the hands of the officers, and have me hung for the murder of ,my housekeeper, if I would not accompanyhinm to his  son. I have done this, and he is now within five miles of here, awaiting tie result of this interview.  Such -I is the changing kaleidoscope of life ' When Thomas- knows what I have done, he will kill me; what can  you do for me I                    :   196   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, "Nothing; I have done enough to ruin the Elmores. You have done enough. to ruin a district, in your at- tempts to ruin that family, if they could be ruined. 1 fear they yet will triumph. But I told you I loved Thomas, and I will not injure him or his parents." "Remember that fatal night when we divided the wealth of Elmore! I gave you twenty thousand dol- lars, and you laid bare your breast, and put your right haud upon your heart, and swore by all that was with- in that you would aid me, every way in your power, to produce their destruction. You said you did not be. lieve in God, and that was the only oath which would be binding. I need your assistance now; will you re- gard your oath?" I will! That oath is sacred. I dare not violate 'it. My life, even, is at your service. Command, and I obey." "I know not what to do; I look to you for advice." , Is it possible that you, the Prince of deceivers, cannot see your way out of this affair? They are in your power now." "But Thomas is first here, you say." "What of,all that? You can tell Elmore that you fear that his son will kill you, and send them here -alone. If they call him son then, be will not believe them, and I will see that they are sent where they will not .trouble you. If they refuse to come without you, as they are religious people, you can make them take a solemn oath that they will not make themselves known to their son under two days. Having obtained their oath, you may leave the rest to me." "Yes, ah, yes," said Dutton, is We will send old El- more into the other world, and then I will take charge /,   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY. *    7 of his widow, of course. I see it all now. But to- morrow night, Thomas Elmore, also, must die!" ' Will you, dare you murder him?" "Yes, man! do you think mn- invulnerable? He is not the first man that my dagger s point has sent to,  Tartarus." "Spare, O spare me him! But stop. You, nor a hundred like you cannot murder him. Your steel can- not pierce him; but if he once. should lay his hand upon you, wo be to you! '  "But you must help me do this."          'I  "I can't." "You have promised,--perform!" "Wetl, I suppose I must. At ten o'clock to-morrow you cross the river. Thomas- shall then arrest them, and you shall realize the enjoyment of your malice. .  To-morrow we live or die. But remember that I,-my life even, is subject to your chtamands." It was late that night wihen the young chief arrived at his cavern, after a week's absence, well loaded with I plunder. He was met by Rockwell as usual, who in- quired of their success, and the number of lives lost in the expedition. At length he summoned c6urage and addressed them: Comrades, I have been a faithful    i chief to you. I have raised- this band from nothing to  what it is. You once loved me and obeyed me. i  have one, and only one favor to ask. It is, that you solemnly promise to obey me to-morrow. 'Tis all I  ask."  We will obey you to-morrow," replied the bandits, "and we promise to do so upon the sword of our chief; for he and you are the only beings that'we fear or'   i worship." "Thomas, will you promise before God to obey me?' ' a!   198   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, "( You never learned me who God was." "Swear then by a mother's love." "I never had a mother! I will swear with my lands upon my sword, that I will obey you,-that iword that never yet lay at the feet of an enemy, and whose edge they never felt unless it was drinking their life-blood." "Comrades," said Rockwell, "I thank you for the oricessions that you have made me." Early the next morning, Dutton informed Mr. Elmore that he could not hccompany him into the presence of his son, because he feared him; but he informed them that he would return to New York, and allow them to search for him at their leisure; and as his cave was not far distant, he would probably come in contact with him as soon as he desired. "You promised me," said Elmore, "that you would bring me to my son; I shall hold you to your engage- ment." ?,Remember, sir, that you are in a section where might is right. You know me well enough to know, that in such a place I consider myself master until the reverse is proved. You know also that I am bound by no engagements, and yield to no laws excepting-the laws of force. But yet I am willing to conduct you to your son, provided that you and your wife will solemn- ly promise me, with your hands upon the Bible, that you will not mention to him that you are his parents, or know any thing of his history, under two days; then I shall have sufficient time to escape him." ' Wretch," said Elmore, drawing his revolver, "show mne mny sonor you are a dead man! I fear you not, here or elsewhere." i)tton drew a revolver at the same instant, and the   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY     99 death of one of them, at least, was prevented by the interference of Mrs. Elmore, who induced her husband  to take the oath, rather than hazard his life in a duel. Elmore took the Bible from his pocket which he always carried with him, and took his oath, whilst his wife  drew a book from her bosom and made her promise. Dutton was satisfied. "To prevent death," said Elmore, "I will not vio. late my oath. I am now completely in your power."  "We are now five miles from his abode," said Dut- ton. "We shall walk there t Are you ready to con- tinue your journey?"  "My wife cannot walk so far."  "Then she can remain here. She goes on foot if she goes at all!" "From a suppliant for my favors, you have becomie dictator," said Elmore. ' Your tone and pretensions- are suddenly changed."  I did not come here to parley with you. You could  do that much better in New York, where an officer stands at every turn ready to assist you; they have need of them. Follow: me or not; I am going, and I shall not return for you." Mrs. Elmore again prevented a recourse to arms by her interference; and after having stated that she could walk the distance with the greatest ease, she proceeded to accompany them. During the walk she was contim- ually at the side of her husband, encouraging him with the assurance that God was their protector, and that he would, as heretofore, preserve them from the in-"  trigues of Dutton. Dutton now appeared in his true  colors. He sullenly marched before them, scarcely re* plying to their questions, and unless spoken, to, he was speechless. He informed them, however, in 'reply to ,     -          '       '.':   20  - THE WAY OF THE WO ILD: OR, their questions, that they would know their son in the same manner as they had known his brother,-by a family resemblance, and by his wearing epaulets as a token of his command. Precisely at ten o'clock they waded across the rapid stream, in a shallow place, and entered the dense forest that surrounded the cavern of the outlaws. This was the hour that Rockwell told Dutton to enter them. Their cheeks blanched to an unearthly-paleness, and their limbs refused to support them, as they remem- bered they were approaching a den of thieves. The inhuman barbarity of this banditti, memory now pre- sented before them; and in exaggerated pictures the skeletons of their victims appeared-hovering over their heads, and warning them to flee from certain destruc- tion. They had not long; however, to think of these things, or to form fancied beings of hideous shape and ghastly countenance, before they were surrounded by the chief and a few of his followers. The countenan- ces of his followers were besmeared with blood, and their swords and clothes were dyed in the crimson fluid, to render them as frightful as possible. Long beards, huge weapons, and trunkless heads which they brought with them, rendered them indeed objects of terror. Iron nerves would have recoiled before sf hid. eous a group, for they looked more like cannibals than civilized beings. " Dutton, I suppose," said the chief. " We come * from the Invincible to welcome you to our home. These are our victims, I suppose," said he, turning toward his parents. " Sir, I will relieve you of your purse." The instant his parents beheld him they saw the striking resemblance which he bore to his brother, not   HONESTY THE BES POLICY. I   201   only in his features, but in the tone of his voice and his manners. But in many respects he appeared different. A scowl of contempt rested upon his features, and he stepped proudly amongst men whose every action be- tokened that they feared him. In the flash of his eyes, in the motion of his sword as he held it defiantly over his head, they saw the terror of the country, a youth of eighteen summers, the chief of the outlaws. They were confounded at his appearance, but ceased to won- der that he was a terror in the land. Had they found him in respectable employment, they would scarcely have been prevented from worshipping him; but now they had only to regret that he was ruined. He appeared to scorn such pillage when he demanded the money of his father, and the Words "mean, contemptible," came unconsciously from his lips. Elmore took the purse from his pocket, andplacing it in the hand of the chief, struck both hands upon his head, and uttered an exclamation of horror. His wife fell prostrate upon the ground. The outlaws gazed with astonishment upon Elmore, but the chief dispatched half a dozen of them for water. They soon returned with their tarpaulins' full, and dashed it not very mildly into the face of Mrs. Elmore, who soon recovered. "Your Excellency," said Dutton, "should carry restoratives with you, when you do business with such sensitive people." "Perhaps you know not the cause of our agitation," said Mrs. Elmore, viewing attentively her son. A glance from Dutton-was sufficient to prevent her saying more, whilst he added -" The sight of an outlaw probably affects them."  202    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, A hearty laugh was the response to this, but the chief added: "To search their pockets generally re- stores our victims. Dutton, I don't like this business. Here, man is your purse. These people appear like honest folks. I like them. I will not injure them. If you have any difficulty with them, settle it at your leisure. I will have nothing to do about it." "Have you not promised to obey the Invincible?" - "Yes -but what of that? Think you that I am a going to butcher this man on a mere promise? No! not for men nor devils will I do it." "It is the only favor that the man who reared you asks. Can you deny him?" "Man," said he, turning to his father, "I regret that you have fallen into bad hands. I have promised ' to obey them to-day, and I suppose that I must; but I never more regretted an act in my life. I would save you, was it not for my promise. Do you ever read the Bible?" said the mother. "Madam, I do not know my letters. I sometimes strap my dagger upon it. I am a poor boy, heir to nothing but my, sword but my enemies would deem that a treasure." The expression of horror which mantled the face of Mrs. Elmore attracted the attention of the whole com. pany - but the chief continued his remarks: i Lady, you call me an outlaw; you despise me; but you kn3w not the circumstances that have made me so. I never had a mother to love me; I never had a father to direct me; I have been reared amongst outlaws'; cou:d I be less than the same. It is very well for you, who know nothing of the circumstances that make your felons, to wonder that all men are not honest; b t if a son of yours had been placed in the situation that I   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    203 have been, he would not be better -he might be worse than I am." The tears flowed down Mrs. Elmore's cheeks during -these remarks, and her hysteric sobs added to the uneasiness of Dutton. The chief stood gazing at her, thinking, "Why does she care for me?" The next moment the words of Emily' Vernon were ringing in his ears: "Never ican I be the bride of an outlaw." The next instant he remembered the remarks of the learned outlaw, who told him that " congenial spirits recognize and sympathize with each other at firstsight; and if all followed nature, none could mistake their friends."  He flung his arms around his mother. "Fear not for me," he said. "My arm may sink lifeless in death; my heart may be pierced by the assassin's dagger, but till then, like my prototype, I am invincible. O, why' gave I that promise to-day? Had I not you might have been saved." Dutton prevented any further conversation, by re- questing that they should start for the cavern. The chief gave him a glance, which, had he seen it, would have filled him with terror, as he said, "How long have you been our commander?" Dutton made an apology. The distance to the cav- ern was soon passed, and Mr. Elmore and his wife were brought before the Invincible. "Godbold! Godbold!" said Elmore. "Is it,possible that the great Rockwell was my former associate, and he who assisted Dutton in producing my ruin? Great God! save me!" "' We are' in a den of thieves," said his wife. "Is there no good Samaritan to assist us?" and she cast a furtive glance toward her son,   204    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, "I answer only to the name of Rockwell. Bow be- fore your superior." I come not here to worship an outlaw," said El- more.  'Then' you die! Soldiers, bind this man!" said Rockwell.  "Here are my hands," replied Elmore. ,'I make no resistance." For the first time in his life, Thomas Elmore knew not what to do. His sword had always freed him from every difficulty and danger, and he trembled, as he re- membered that he had promised his obedience to a living being for even a day. When they were binding his father, his eyes flashed like the eyes of a tigress when they are robbing her of her young. He stamped his feet upon the ground, he tore his hair from his head, and raved like a madman. The boldest ruffians fled from his presence into a retired corner of the cavern, as soon as they had performed their duty, and all eyes were upon him. Thomas," said Rockwell, "prepare thyself to be- head this man." "I have a few words to say, before I die," said El- more. "Dutton, this is thy work. This is the recom- pense which I receive for saving you from the gallows, and-for obeying your instructions. Must your curse follow me to my grave t Will you not be contented with robbing me of my- fortune, and with rendering me and my family miserable for years? Will it not satisfy you that you have made my son an outlaw? But your curse follows me no further than the grave. I- have kept my promise, and I will keep it, but it costs merny life. But I rejoice that I am the deceivedand - not the deceiver. You will receive your reward for "         .            i   HONESTY. THE BEST POLICY.   205 your wickedness, and full well you know that one word from me would save me, and prove thy destruce tion. , "Name it! O, name it!" said the chief. "I dare not. I have sworn that I will not mention it." "And had you rather die than violate your oath?" said the son. "Yes, ten thousand deaths would I die before I would do it! And I would give worlds, if I had them in possession, if you had been educated in principles of honesty and uprightness." "Why do you care for me? Why does that woman care forme? Dutton, here is a mystery. You know what it is. Solve it, or this man shall be thy last victim." "Man," said Dbtton, addressing the father, "' will tell you my future plans. Your wife shall be my wife before sunset. Perhaps that may relieve your mind of a burden." "Thomas, will you not protect her? Hear the words of a dying man, and promise me this. 'T is all I ask." "You have learned me to keep my promise. I am a slave to-day; after that, I will protect her, and be her slave and servant."  "Beware of Duttoln! He dare not cope with you in an equal contest, but he will seek to kill you in the darkness of -the night, when you think no foe is near. Beware of that man! He is my murderer!" ( Lay thy head upon that block!" said Rockwell. Elmore obeyed. "Thomas, behead that man." Thomas drew his sword from its scabbard, and -!            '     t -   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, raised it in the air. His hand trembled, his frame shook, and his sword dropped at his feet. 4 Rockwell," exclaimed he, "I cannot do this deed. Save me from this, and I will obey you forever!" "I ask but your services to-day. You have sworn; executetyour victim." Again his sword was raised in the air, when his arm was caught by his mother, who exclaimed: "He is your father! Will you murder him? Will you worse than murder me, your mother?" "My father! my mother!" said the chief, and his sword ag 4n dropped from his hand, and he clasped her to his bosom, weeping under the most intense excite- ment. "Have I a mbther? Are you that woman? Speak, woman, speak!" "I am," was the reply. "Woman," said Dutton, "You have perjured your. self. I shall realise my curse in witnessing your eternalmisery." "No, sir, I am not perjured," said the mother. "Here is the book on which I promised not to inform him that we were his Iparents. It is not the Bible "- and she drew the book from her bosom and threw it at his feet. -Dutton picked up the book. One look was sufficient, and he hurled it at her head. "Thomas," said Rockwell, " you solemnly promised to obey me. Execute my commands." "What? And murder my own father?" said the chief. "1 promised, did I? Whom do I fear? What do I fear? I, who never bowed my knee to God nor man, shall I cringe now, and sacrifice my father for an oath taken on my sword? That sword which never fell from my hands before, has now fallen before my   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.   207   parents. I swear before them and heaven, that not one hair of their heads shall be torn from them! Woman, if I am thy son, I will obey you from this hour. I will leave this den of wickedness, and learn the laws of truth and honesty-and I will be an honest man." "Soldiers," said Rockwell, "you have promised to obey me to-day. Kill him, the chief who has deceived us!" "My sword drops not from my hand now," said the chief.* ( Come on, ye who wish to die! I am ready for you. Who will be the first hecatomrb?" That chief had strength then. He sprang forward, and the ground trembled beneath his feet, and that cavern shook, as it echoed and re-echoed the words of the enraged youth. The frightened bandit' sunk back still further into their retirement, as their young chief. stood before them, watching in vain for the appearance of his first enemy. "We promised by the sword of our chief," said'one of the number. "That sword has fallen to do homage to his parents; we fall with it, and obey its owner." At that moment a ball whistled past his head from the revolver of Dutton. The, chief sprang toward him and the next instant Dutton lay prostrate at his feet. He placed one foot upon him, and waving his sword contemptuously over his fallen foe, said: "I hate to stain my sword in the blood of such a rascal." Rockwell," said Dutton, " now strike, or all is lost You must kill the chief --then we triumph."  "O, Rockwell, my protector! I had rather that thy dagger had pierced my heart than lived to see this hour. I thought you my friend - havejI lived to see you my worst enemy? If you wish to kill me, herQ Is my bosom --strike!" i    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, "Thomas, dear Thomas!" said the Invincible, I am your friend and I love you, for you are what I was in my early years. My arm has lost its power. 'T is time that I should die. One of us must!"  ,' Why so? But tell me, my only friend, tell me- are these my parents? Tell me what you know about Dutton -and by your and my parents' words shall he live or die, for I am judge and jury." "' These are thy parents," said the Invincible. "They came here to see and reform you. Dutton has led them here to murder them. But first, by the most en- ticing manner and endearing caresses, he turned thy father from an affectionate husband to a drunkard and a gambler. He won his wealth. He worse than stple his children-he incarcerated them in tho lowest hovels of the vile. He attempted to ruin you all. Your brother and sister have escaped him, and are persons of respectability. I was his accomplice. He gave me twenty thousand dollars as my share of your father's fortune, but I put my hand upon my heart and solemnly promised him, that I would use every means in my power, as long as life should last, fo ruin and destroy your family. But if they could be destroyed, he has-used subtlety enough in his dealings with them to destroy a kingdom. My oath, atheist as I am, I dare not disregard. That man, Dutton, believes in the Bible, yet he would take a thousand oaths without the slightest idea of performing one of them to save his life. O, Thomas, one of us must die!" ,i Have I*a father'to direct me, a mother to love me, and a sister to cherish? O, I am dreaming! Yet last forever, blissful dream! May I nerer awaken from this. I, a wretch, a robber, an outlaw, have I friends, and am I yet to enjoy a happy home?" "- * , , .  . m^  * I.    ,   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.   209   "O, how rejoiced I am," said the father, " to hear that you will be guided by us, and will abandon your life of plunder! Our family will all yet be united in love, and the curse of Dutton falls worst upon his own head." "First, then," said the chief, "Dutton shall die!" "Stop, my son," said the mother; "you will not commence your reform by committing murder! You must spare his life."  "What shall I save him for? That he may pro- claim me an outlaw; have me incarcerated in some prison, tried, convicted, hung, and quartered; and him who is the terror of the land exposed to the eager gaze of thousands? That would be fine, truly." O, I never will expose you in the world. Save, me, save me! Upon my knees I beg for my life," said  Dutton. "I suppose that you are a man of your word, i1 have heard enough about you. I won't trust you with your head on. You are not talking to a simpleton now, but a disciple both of Mercury and Mars. In fifteen minutes you shall die," "Northwood," said the Invincible, "I have a great secret to tell you. You are my son! Be a comfortto your mother, and render her last days pleasant, for she loved me; and Hah! I was true to none! But whlen I left her, she prayed that my best friend might prove my murderer. It il be so. Thomas, are you ready to meet me?"?  "No! First I will despatch Dutton, and then my bosom is naked'and ready for your sword." "Will you thus surrender your parents' lives into my hands as well as yur own?  My oath stops not short of the destruction llhe whole of your family." " 210    THE WAY OP THE WORLD: OR, "Dutton, release this man from his promise." , No, sir, I don't do it! You may kill me, but so long as the Invincible lives, you have a foe." RoclSwell and Thomas then embraced each other, and wept in each other's arms; then seizing their swords they retreated a few steps, and then commenced the fight. Sword met sword, and eyes flashed fire that meant love; all eyes were upon them, for those swords had never crossed before, and none knew who would prove the victor. The smile of fiendish delight rested upon the features of Dutton, when he thought the In- vincible in the ascendancy. They stopped to breathe, for each had found his equal now. Then again they fought with redoubled fury, till the sword of Rockwell fell from his hands. ("Strike! Here lies my heart." "Live on; I never will be the murderer of my pro- tector. You may kill me and my parents if you can." "Now I suppose I must die," said Dutton. "I can- not, for now the sins that I have committed during a lifetime, crowd themselves upon my memory; and the men whom I have ruined, rise up before me. They laugh at me ; they point their long bony fingers at me, and scoffingly say, Ths is thy reward.' Fiends, begone! I have a few moments more on earth; then I am thine. But let me die in peace. O, well do I recollect the dying words of my father, when he ad- vise-d me to live an honest man and to beware of a fate like his. Worlds would I givehad I them in my possession-that I had obeyed him. I have been miser- able on earth, and I shall be miserable in eternity. It is some consolation that I merit my doom. Here, Mr. Elmore,is all my wealth. bike these notes and use them in doing good; in benrting those I have injuredi   I               \ HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    2" and in spreading the principles of the Gospel. Will you and your wife forgive me for the injuries that I have done you, and for the worse purposes which I in' tended to accomplish? Ask your children lo forgive me." We forgive you, and may God," said Elmore. "Thomas, I ask yours." "When thy head is off thy shoulders, not before," said the chief. "O, these fiends!" said Dutton, " they come again; they deride me; they spit upon me. O, there can be no hotter hell than this! There, there is one that I enticed from a happy home, and won his wealth; he died in the gutter. He says that I did it. There is one that I ruited, and there another, and there still more! The air is full of them! O, they come! they  clinch me! they choke me! O, I cannot breathe!" "Dutton," said the Invincible, "will you not release me from further observance of my promise?" "No! No! No! I leave i foe to the Elmores. You can triumph over them if you will." ", Why dost thou act like a madman? There is a sword, and here thy enemies; take that and die an honorable death." "Dutton seized a sword that lay at his feet, but the Invincible caught the sword from Thomas, who was standing at his side, and rushed toward him, exclaim. ing, i I am your first foe." The swords of Dutton and Rockwell met, but the next instant the headless trunk of Dutton lay upon the ground. Comrades," said the Invincible, "listen, and hear my past history. I was a boy, wealthy and educated. I sought enjoyment in pursuing pleasure. I found   212    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, myself courted and admired; I dipped deep into the sparkling fountain and found its allurements poison, Next I sought for happiness in books. I read, I wrote, and thousands admired the emanations from my pen. 'Tis all folly. Next," I sought for happiness in reflect- ing upon my present and future state. I saw the beast die and the man; I saw no spirit; I heard not the motion of their wings, as angels bore the happy spirit away. Then I doubted the existence of a spirit, and then cf a God. Then I made myself god, and others worshipped /me. Men, willing to serve me, elevated me high in office, but there was no happiness there. O, cursed the man that thinks, and happy the man that can follow in the steps of his predecessors, and obey the precepts of the Bible, without knowing enough to doubt. Friends are false; I found them so. Hopes were vain; life was a curse; eternity awhlank. Then I 'made my own laws and chose my own victims. They were the fairest of the fair. They were women of rosy cheek and noble parentage. They were men whom the world called honorable; but they worshipped me. You may call me god or demon; both are worshipped, it matters little which. What I am now, you know, Men by hundreds have bowed before me, and begged for life; and worthy women have knelt beside them, and wept at my feet. I murdered them. Ha! ha! I was their god, if' not creating, at least in-producing their destruction. I die as I have lived. I fear not God nor man, nor ever bowed my knee to either. And my sword never found till to-day, an equal. Thomas, continue in your present course. You are worshipped now; transform not thyself from a god to a slave; quench not the flanmes that burn in thy bosom, as others do--and, vainly striving for the name of an honest, t         HONESTY THE BEST POLICY. .   21 upright, or great man, they reap only in disappoint. ment and sorrow.  Outlaws, I must die. Is there none of this number who will save me from the painful necessity of being my own murderer?" "INone! None! Live on -and rule us still!" was shouted by every being in that cavern. -   "I will take all the evil upon myself, that may re- sult from your violating your promise," .:aid the chief. (,I dare not violate my promise. When even Jove had sworn by the waters of the Styx, he durst not violate his oath. 'Tis thus with me. If there is a God in Heaven, (once I address thee,) send me from i these my followers, one to kill me; if thou wilt, I will believe in thee. Thomas, either I must die, or all thy family, according to my oath; for thy sake and thine qnly, i must die." A slight rustle of leaves was heard at the entrance of the cavern. The bandits gazed, and an involuntary  shudder run over them all, as they beheld one of their number enter, whom, three days before, they had left for dead in a distant part of the State. This man had- received the title of the Curse of the Invincible, from his 'always trying to injure his feelings, and produce discontent in the minds of the bandits. They all knew that he would delight to imbrue his hands in the blood of the Invincible, and tears came to the eyes of those outlaws as they saw him. "Man," said Northwood, " back, or you die!" "This is the answer to my prayer," said Rockwell. "O, I had rather be eternally miserable, than not to be at all." "I never performed an act more readily in my life?' said his enemy. "You won my wealth, and changed me from an honest man to an outlaw! You made my   214    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, :parents beggars, and you dug my sister's grave. I will now help you to yours." Rockwell slowly moved toward him after drawing his sword, and the dagger of his enemy drank his life's blood. He died not unavenged, for his drooping arm raised his sword, and the head of his enemy flew from his shoulders. Thomas and Northwood caught their former ruler in their arms, and wept burning tears up. on his neck. The dim eyes of the dying chief gave them one last lingering look of approbation, and then his lips were heard indistinctly to murmur, "It is hard thus to die." Shrieks, groans and curses filled that cavern, when the outlaws found their chief was dead. They embraced his dead body, and fountains of tears were shed over the lifeless form of that being whom they feared and worshipped. "Comrades," said the young chief, as soon as his emotions would allow him tt speak, 6' these men must be buried; and suitable stones shall mark their resting place. On that of Rockwell shall be engraved,' The Invincible.' On that of Dutton, 'The Curse and the Discarded.' We all adore the name of Rockwell; he has been our god. Can we expect a more honorable death than his if we continue in this life of pillage? Our bravest men have been slain by our enemies, and their dead bodies have been interred without a sigh; our chief has suffered for a promise made years ago; what is our destiny? I fear not being conquered ; this arm was not made to find an equal; but I wish to lead a different life. Comrades, let us all reform; and let the members of this band of outlaws become good citi- zens and honest men." ::The members of the banditti unanimously expressed their desires to be the desire of their commander, and   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY. ,   215 stated also that they had long wished for more active stations and less seclusion. The most of them had friends, and they desired to visit them. The amount of plunder which they had collected was enormous; and each was soon forming plans how they should en- joy their wealth; and day-dreams, brighter by far than the resplendent sun, were formed there, never, alas! to be realised. "Mother," said Thomas, "if you will allow an out- law to call you by that name, our affairs are all settled to your entire satisfaction, I presume, and soon we shall -be on our journey home. Will you allow me to share with you and my brother and sisters, that bright and happy home? I shall have much to learn, and I shall undoubtedly prove your patience beforeij learnthe laws which govern society, or become familiar with those principles which even your school-boys know. But I promise to do the best I am able."  "Dear, dear son," was the reply, "you are welcomer thrice welcome to our home, and our most assiduous attentions ; and we are happy in thus being able to res- cue you from the fate that hangs over the head of every outlaw. A few days were now passed in arranging their affairs, and that band was soon dispersed throughout the country. They left not, however, their common home and their associates, without feelings of regret; but most of all, their young chief received their heart- felt demonstrations of love and submission. Each day, also, before they separated, they visited the grave of *he Invincible, and mourned his untimely fate. He formed the banditti - it perished with him. But had it not been for the parents of the young chief, who risked their own lives to save their son, we have no   216    THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, reason to doubt but that the outlaw band would for a long time have existed, even though Rockwell had been dead ; for Thomas Elmore was all that an outlaw chief could be. Thomas parted not from Northwood until he had forced from him a promise, that within two years he would visit him. Thb stillness of death rested in the cavern as the two chiefs stood alone there, and the chilly night wind whistled portentously as it blew around that cavern, while every gust seemed to say, The Invincible and his band are no more.   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.     21  CHAPTER XIII. "There is a spot of earth supremely blest, A dearer, sweeter spot than all the rest, Where man, creation's tyrant, casts aside His sword and sceptre, pageantry and pride, While in his softened looks benignly blend The sire, the son, the husband, brother, friend. Where shall that land, that spot of earth be found ) Art thou a man? a patriot? Look around. O, thou shall find, howe'er thy footsteps roam, That land thy country, and that spot thy home." Elmore and his family Wrere soon on their way-to New York, at which place they duly arrived, and were met by Henry and Clara, who had become alarmed on account of their long absence, fearing lest Dutton had again duped, perhaps murdered them. Their arrival silenced these fears, and brought a brother to be loved and cherished. They then started for their-home in New England, where the months passed swiftly away in relating the different events which had happened to each, and in learning Thomas to read, write, and cy- pher. He progressed rapidly in whatever he undertook, and at the expiration of two years he had obtained inuch useful information. The affecting anecdotes which Thomas related of the banditti, brought tears into the eyes of every member of the family; and each day Mrs. Elmore observed in the language of Thomas before he knew her - if a son of her's had been placed   218   THE WAY OF THE WORLD: OR, in the situation that he had been, he would not be bet- ter, but he might be worse. They concealed the fact fronM the villagers that their son was an outlaw, for some few years, but after, his character was fully estab- lished they ceased to keep it a secret. But I must re- turn to the arrival of Elmore and hiss family in their native village. Henry Carlton had received a letter from Elmore after his arrival in New York, stating that he had found his last child, and also the day when he should arrive home. That day was a holiday. The village church was thrown open and decorated in a becoming manner, while the tables which extended the whole length were loaded with the choicest fruits and luxu- ries. They were met by a procession of the citizens of the town, who conducted them to the church; and while the loud peals of the organ blended with the milder music of the choir, there arose many a heart- felt prayer of thanksgiving to Heaven, that that family had again been united in love, and under such favora- ble circumstances. After the music from the choir had ceased, the pastor of the congregation arose, and in a lengthy and devout prayer returned thanks to that Being who metes out all our changes for us in mercy, for pre- serving the children of the Elnvmres, and for again re- storing them to their former home. He alluded to their trials and afflictions; he noticed the remarkable man- ner in which God had rescued them from poverty and disgrace; and, in conclusion, he supplicated that their trials and afflictibns might be: instrumental in increase ing their happiness on earth, and their felicity in heaven. There was not a dry eye in that assembly, as they listened to the affecting words of the. speaker; and after he hada concluded his remarks, the audience   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    219 remained in almost breathless silence, meditating upon his words. Then they all freely partook of the refresh- ments which had been provided, and passed a few hours in listening to the history of the Elmores. A group of attentive listeners clustered around each member of that family, and introduced them to their acquaintances, that all might rejoice with them, as well as add to their enjoyment. Then they formed a pro- cession, and accompanied them to their door; and while Mrs. Elmore was locked in the arms of her aged parents, and while the others waved an adieu to their friends, the air resounded with the loud shouts and cheers of the company. The meeting of Mr. Standish with his children and grandchildren was affecting in the extreme. After having listened to the events familiar with the reader, Mr. Standish said, I am rejoiced that I have lived to see this day; for now I know of a surety, that God will not desert those that trust in Him; I know that he hears and answers prayers. -He has answered mine. My grandchildren are all that I could wish them to be, beautiful, lovely, noble and upright. From the suffer- ings and misfortunes which have befallen us, we can all realise the fact, that it is better to suffer wrong than do wrong, and that virtue, sooner-or later, will triumph, There never was a deeper, shrewder knave than Henry Dutton. He formed his plans with astuteness, heeex- ecuted them with prudence. He could transform him- self into an angel of light; he was a being of dark- ness. He has done all man could do to ruin us, but Heaven has protected us, and we are saved. His curse affected himself more than us. My grandchildren, be- ware, and not follow in his steps, nor walk in the paths of dishonesty; but let honesty be thy policy, and eirth   220    tHE WAT OF THE WORLD: OR, will add to thy enjoyment, and Heaven will be thy reward. God's providences are often dark texts, and want an expositor; but although we cannot perceive in this world that our afflictions will amount for our good, yet in the future we shall undoubtedly understand why these things are so. We bow in humble acquiescence to His pleasure. Surely the Judge of all the earth will do right." Reader, would youmknow more of the history of this family? Clara Elmore married a clergyman. His name was not Clayton--it was Frederic J. Foster. Henry married the daughter of Captain Sandford, and soon entered again upon the duties of a seafaring life, which he never afterwards abandoned. His delight was to sail in a beautiful ship upon the placid sea, to visit different countries and cities, and to witness with his own reyes the customs of different nations. His wife, frequently accompanied him on his voyages, and by her presence added to his enjoyment. Thomas Elnore, after receiving a good education, became a military officer; but he entirely abandoned his former principles, and became an honest and upright man. ,At the end of two years after the dispersion of the outlaws, Northwood, according to agreement, made Tlhomas a visit. They both, however, returned to- gether. We need not mention that Emily-Vernon was the occasion of this. She remained single, confi- dent in the belief tha yet she should meet her outlaw lover, a reformed man. Thomas never mentioned to her:that he-was that outlaw, but took great pleasure in listening to her description of him. He found no diffi- culty, however, in winning his bride, who forgot her former lover in his presence. Before the ceremony of   HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.    221 marriage was performed, he drew her aside and said, "Now tell me true-- did you ever love any one but me?" "Yes," replied she, and a rich crimson shade suf- fused her beautiful countenance; "one, and one only, beside you, but he was an outlaw." Again the Elmore family all assembled under the paternal roof, each with their bosom companion. It was the hour of sunset, and as the last silver rays of the radiant orb of day shed light and beauty upon the earth, Clara seated herself. at the piano, and at the re- quest of her grandfather, sang a beautiful lay of her own composition, which related to- the prosperity and adversity of her family. The last strain of music ruffled the gentle breeze. She turned around and beheld the smile of satisfaction which rested upon the features of her grandparent. It was his last. The next instant he fell upon the flopr, dead. Many were the mourners that surrounded his bier, all of whom testified that he was "( that noblest work of God," too seldom found, "( an honest man." A few years have passed away, but the name of William Standish is frequently mentioned, but always in connection with his favorite maxim, "Honesty is the Best Policy."    
         
       
   
