
    ----CITATION----
        St. Clair, Frank.. Six Days in the Metropolis, or, Phases of Life in Town .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7694
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Six days in the metropolis, or, Phases of life in town 
            
               SIX DAYS  IN THE METROPOLIS, OR BY  FRANK   ST. CLAIR. s intended to illustrate, by pictures from real life, the fashions freaks, and fancies, lodges and doings, business and bustling, destitution and depravity, crimes, courts, and characters, in Boston. BOSTON: PUBLISHED   BY  REDDING    & COMPANY.  AND FOR SALE BY BOOKSELLERS GENERIALtLY. 1854.     Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1854, BY I. WIlSLOW AYEB, In the Clerk's Office of the District 'Court Of the District of Massachusetts.   PREFACE. THE following pages were written from pencil sketches and jottings by the author; and are designed to illustrate the fashions and foibles, freaks and fancies, dodges and doings, business and bustling of every day life. The work is, in fine, an exposition of a thousand little matters which go to make up "Life in Town," and to impress the verdant stranger with a sense of the "awful wickedness" and striking peculiarities of city people. From truthful-pictures of real life the most valuable lessons may be learned. The scenes of vice, destitution, extravagance, and folly drawn from personal observation, and delineated in a bold aind truthful manner, make impressions upon the mind more powerful and enduring than sermons of eminent preachers, who have only looked upon life through a glass, and who really know nothing of the allurements and temptations of which they warn the young.  Eloquent sermons, and all the embellishments of rhetoric are, comparatively inefficient when uttered by those who have never seen vice and degradation in its various forms. This work may contain some " hard hits" and plain expressions, but while our aim is not to offend, we cannot sacrifice independence of thought, and an honest expression of our sentiments, even to avoid the displeasure of any. If the-reader should here find amusement for a leisure hour, and derive any valuable instruction, the design of the writer is accom- plished. That the reader may find in it agreeable entertainment, and the Publisher reap ample compensation, is the wish of THE AUTHOR.    CHA-PTER I. FIRST DAY. The Advent of Caleb Quiz, Esq. :His Object. Impressions respect- ing Omnibuses, Hotels and their Patrons. A Promenade on Wash. ington Street. Fashions. .is Conviction of the Total Depravity of City People. THE metropolis of New England is universally admitted to be a great place; and had the question not been definitely settled, it is quite certain that Caleb Quiz, Esq., would not have- passed six mortal days within its limits. It is the residence of great men, and men, who, by some strange infatuation, fancy themselves great; the home of great public benefactors, and the abode of great rascals; men of great enterprise and business habits, others of great indolence. Quiz formed a just conception of its greatness, when, upon mature deliberation, and after long years of reflection, during which he read the Boston papers, he came to the conclusion that it was the duty of a young man to visit Boston-that it would add materially to his store of worldly knowledge-aid him to form more accurate estimates of human char. acter-enable him to see life as it is enjoyed or endured in large cities, and, correct all erroneous impressions which a rural residence and long connection with country people had led him to form; it would show him that life is somewhat variegated, and presents various and re- markable phases, according to the point from which it is seen. Impressed with this deeply-rooted conviction, Caleb Quiz, Esq., (for thus all his letters were addressed,) resolved to set out for BQston, to pass a few days there, and to' see if actual experience would verify the opinion he had formed by reading and the descriptions by others. Whether Quiz was of prepossessing personal appearance or the reverse, married or single, tall or of diminutive stature, has very little to do with the history of his excursion; and however important these particulars may be to him, or how far they affected the character of his adventures, we regard them as matters of private interest, and altogether too personal for public comment; so passing them over in 1   6        SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; silence, we shall' allow the reader to presume favorably in all things- that he was intelligent, curious, keen as an arrow, and the person of all others to notice all that was curious, remarkable, or interesting, though it must be confessed that he was exceedingly verdant. Never did Don Quixote set forth in quest of adventures more in right down earnest, resolved to see and to conquer, than did Caleb Quiz, Esq., when he left the hills of Berkshire for the metropolis of New England. Having resolved, it was easy to carry out his inten- tions; his valise with ample stock of linens, and his pocket book well lined, were submitted for the third time to his examination, and satis- fied that nothing more was wanting to facilitate his purposes, he left home resolved to see the world or perish in the attempt. One fine morning during theholidays the cars entered the Wetern depot, as they do, so far as our observation extends, rain or shine, and Quiz, for the first time in his life, was in Boston. He had heard of the Revere House, and the recollection was called up by the appearance of a hack in front of the depot; it was guarded by a man duly labelled with the name of that celebrated house, who intuitively understood that Quiz was from the interior, and seemed remarkably interested in him, calling out several times, "Carriage, sir, carriage. Take you to any part of the city." Quiz turned to him and observed in a patron- izing manner, "Young man, you are remarkably civil and polite, I don't care if I take your carriage-rather guess I will. Did you expect me                .           ' "O, yes," replied Whip. "I have been here a week in succession, looking for you. Over the left," he added in a lower tone. "Thank you. Very considerate, very," rejoined Quiz, and the closing of the door prevented further conversation. He was the only passenger, and therefore had ample opportunity for reflection as the - carriage drove to the Revere House. On his arrival he paid the usual fare, and having booked his name and taken breakfast, set forth, determined to improve his first day in Boston. The determination of our adventurer to see the sights was early evinced. He took a seat in a Washington street 'bus, with a view of going o "up town." The weather was fine and bracing, and Quiz felt in excellent spirits. . The strap attached to the door first at- tracted his notice, and he thought it must be a serious annoyance to the driver to be pulled and hauled as he was, on the ingress or egress of every passenger. But he found that the driver was far from being vexed at -these frequent interruptions, and the utility of the "darned   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.       7 thing" was soon apparent. It was, as he observed, a sort of telegraphic communication with the driver by the applicants for admission, and on the same principle a preventative against Jeremy Diddlers leaving be- fore paying their fares. They. had not proceeded far before the 'bus stopped, and a very beau- tiful young lady opened the door and peered in inquiringly, as if to as- certain whether she coull find accommodations. The coach already had its complement of passengers, and politeness ,and courtesy aside, there was no room for her. No one offered to make room by vacating his seat, and the passengers, so far from crowding together, suddenly seemed to expand. Plethoric gentlemen required more room, and all either moved their knees or elbows outward, determined not to sacrifice their own comfort, even temporarily, to allow the' fair candidate a seat. One or two men looked down; others contracted the muscles of their faces, assuming an expression of great firmness; others looked out at the windows; and no one appeared to see the young lady-none, wished to. Finding that the gentlemen had so little gallantry and the ladies so little accommodation that they would not offer her a seat, she remarked half inquiringly, "All full, I suppose." "Cold day," observed an old skinflint who was on his way to his shop at the South End. The remark was addressed to no one in par- ticular, and intended only to avoid an answer to the woman's inquiry. "Full as a tick, ma'am," said a man who set next the door, and who had rather be thought wanting in gallantry than to vacate his seat. "We're as thick as three in a bed," added another. "So I see," observed the woman, and she was about to give up the attempt, when Quiz, who now felt his cheeks tingle with the glow of shame at the lack of gallantry which he observed, ventured to say, "Come in, ma'am, I guess we can make room for one more--an omnibus is-never full."  The lady, with a witching smile, expressed her thanks for his coUr- tesy, and entered the coach. Still no one moved but Quiz, and he en- deavored to compress himself into the smallest space possible, when. a fat man of ponderous proportions, seeing his embarrassment, drew himself together, affording full six inches of space. Quiz felt deeply grateful, and the woman took a seat by his side. "Some folks don't seem to know when an omnibus is full," said one of the passengers, in a bitter tone, intending 'to make a double shot, and hit both Quiz and the lady.   8        SIX DAYS IN TIIE METROPOLIS; "And some others don't know much about politeness or civilitiy, rejoined Quiz, who felt that the remark was intended as an insult. "Sir!" exclaimed the other gruffly, "do you mean to be personal?" "Not particularly so, though you can apply it as you please." "If my presence is so extremely odious to any one, I will leave the coach," said the lady, and was about to pull the strap,-when Quiz induced her to remain, assuring? her that Io gentleman would thus behave. Curses were heaped upon the head of the driver, and upon :his fraternity, indiscriminately; and there was a promise on the part of one to petition for a by-law to prevent drivers of omnibuses from receiving more than thirty persons when their -coaches have seats only for twelve. While this expression of ill-humor was being made by the dyspeptic passengers, Quiz and the lady under his charge were engaged in a pleasant tese a tete, and were very soon on familiar terms. ! "Faith, if this is a specimen of Boston ladies, they are exceedingly agreeable," said Quiz to himself, as they passed on. She was attired in elegant style, but Quiz thought she must have left home in great haste, for he observed that she wore a rigolette, and he had never seen one before. "What on earth can that be?" thought Quiz, as he repeatedly glanced at it. "It is a sort of a triangular net, all hung with little knots about the size of potato balls, and covers only the top of her head and the tips of her ears. Perhaps she was in too great haste to take her bonnet, and, therefore, seized the first thing that came to hand, or perhaps it is a case of absence of 'mind, and she has put: on her knitting work. But, may be the tarnal thing is the fashion;" and as he could not determine Jhat point, he resolved to notice the head dresses of all the ladies he met during the day. He felt an interest in the woman, and hoped that it would be his good fortune to see her again. The coach was at length stopped, and the fair i9ncognito bade him a good morning and disappeared. Having reached Dover street, the gallant Quiz alighted, and was about to walk back, when, having occasion to use some money, he found, to his utter amazement, that his pocket-book was missing.  "What! hulloa, driver, I say!" he shouted, "I have lost my pocket- book, containing fifty dollars, in your stage. Hold on, if you please, and, I rather guess I can find it." The driver complied, but Quiz looked for it in vain.   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.   -     9 "Well, darn the thing, there is more where that came from," said the loser, and with this sage remark he was about to give up the search when a very genteel, good-looking young man, with a glossy and lux- uriant moustache, addressed him: "You have lost your pocket-book, sir?" "Yes, and although I don't care so miuch for the loss, it would -be a satisfaction to know where the darned thing has gone." "Yes, my friend. I have not the honor of your acquaintance, but I judge you have not been in the city long." "No."'  "From the country--that is from the west, Cincinnati or St, ' Louis?"  "No, I belong up in Berkshire County, in the old Bay State. But why do you ask." "I beg pardon, sir, for seeming impertinent; but I believe I have met you before. Your name is Brown " "My name is Quiz." "Ah, yes, Mr. Quiz. I am happy to meet you, but regret the cir- cumstances which lead'to the acquaintance. My name is Montgomery. Here, then, misfortune is followed by good luck." "I am'happy to know you, sir. But what good luck is there to come, other than our acquaintance?" "I observed you,- Mr. Quiz, in the omnibus, and also observed the female who sat on your right. You don't know who she was-of course not, but you may have heard of pretty omnibus thieves. That woman was Brazen Kate, as she is known to the police-one of the most abandoned females, who doubtless makes omnibus travel a profitable business. I know her very well. You might have noticed that she glanced at me-quite frequently. She has robbed you." Quiz paused and drew back with amazement at the statement which so directly confirmed his impression of the " awful wickedness" of Boston people. Montgomery supposed he was struck dumb with surprise that he should knoyg the thief so well. "You are surprised that I know her, but the "fact is, I have seen her several times, and once I detected her in committing a similar lar- ceny, and gave notice to the police at once. She was brought before - the Court and fined. We will apprise the police of this matter, and I' assure you your money will be restored." Quiz could not well afford the loss, but he felt that he had been truly   10       SIX DAYS IN THZ METROPOLIS;  fortunate in making the acquaintance of so intelligent 'and companion- able a fellow. They proceeded to the police office, and on their way became intimately acquainted. Quiz informed him that he had come to Boston to see the city, and that he could easily reconcile the loss, if he could make his visitinteresting, instructive, and pleasant. "This is, then, your intention. My dear fellow, give me your hand- I am with you! I once came to the city a stranger, and from my own observation assure you that you can see nothing, positively nothing, without a guide and companion. How I sighed for a companion when I first came to this city; and you, lucky dog, shall have the benefit of my experience, and what I don't know of city life is not worth know- ing. Consider me your companion and friend during your visit." "I am then, indeed, fortunate. I accept your offer, and hope it may be in my power to repay your extreme kindness." "Not a word of it, my boy. Let us go and drink to our better ac- quaintance." Quiz complied, but not without compunction, and Montgomery gave the last ninepence he possessed in payment. "Now speaking of omnibuses," observed Montgomery, " my expe- rience is that they are the greatest humbugs in the world. Plebeian concerns throughout. Gentlemen are compelled to sit by the side of the devil knows who, and may regard themselves fortunate if they are riot pressed to death by bulky passengers.. Drivers entertain 'but two ideas, the first is that their omnibuses are made of gutta percha, and should be packed as close as a lady's band-box preparatory to a long journey; the other is-what they regard one of the cardinal virtues which should never be forgotten--to look after every sixpence and knock down' all they can." "Belligerent rascals! Why are they so quarrelsome " "No, not very quarrelsome. 'Knocking down' is a phrase denot- ing the act of appropriating their employer's money to their own in- dividual purposes. Well, they have other faults. Sometimes drivers of rival lines of omnibuses race with each other, to the imminent haz- ard of the necks of their passengers. I will give you a bit of my experience on this point: Washington street, the present season, is the place for excitement and sport, and the Cambridge track should not be mentioned the same day with it. The number and character of passengers in the omni- buses which enter for the races may vary according to circumstances. The 'bus may be crowded or empty--there is no allowance made for   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.       " any excess. It felt to my lot to be a passenger during a race, one day last week. /I was in a Charlestown 'bus which, on reaching the Old' State House, came neck and neck with a Washington street coach. The word ' go '.was given, and off we started in fine style. We might have had some advantage, for our party consisted only of myself, four strong-minded women, a child, and lap-dog; there were, it is true, sundry band-boxes, bags, and baskets, but these were not taken into the account. The other 'bus contained full a dozen persons, only four of whom were ladies. The nags of both teams were in tolerable coin- dition, and gave promise of making the heat in good time.' On we went like mad, still neck and neck, till on reaching the head of Water street the ' Washington' shot ahead full two lengths, and our prospect appeared rather dubious. I looked at my watch three times before reaching Milk street, ard my spirits fell, for I must confess, now we were in for it, I could not well think of being beaten. But I took heart as I saw one on whose judgment I could rely, turn to another and ex- claim 'Two to one on the Charlestown team.' 'Done! I heard some one reply, but we dashed on. The confidence of my friend inspired us with hope and our driver with courage. Jehu, at that moment, by a dextrous movement, brought his lash down about the ears of both horses, and like lightning we shot ahead! A glimpse of Amory Hall, as we passed, convinced me we were making good time. I found at that point that we had been full fifty-six seconds, but thanks to the skill of our driver we here passed the other team, running, however, within a hair's breadth of each other's wheels, kno'cking the spokes out of a countryman's wagon, running over or knocking down an apple woman--- we couldn't exactly tell which-breaking one of our own springs, and unseating- a fat lady, who fell plump into the bottom of the coach. ' Lord a' mercy!' she exclaimed, and after a mighty effort was again seated,but declared that she wouldn't ride another rod, and would get out at once. She' might have been a woman of powerful impulse, but she was certainly a woman of pluck. On and on we dashed,leading 'Wash- ington' full twenty rods. Unluckily a policeman motioned us to stop; but how could we, my dear Quliz-such rashness would subject us to ,he mortification of being outstripped and losing the race, yet Jehu at- tempted to haul up at Boylston market; 'Washington,' of course, dashed furiously by us. ' Look the other way!' exclaimed the fare- taker to the driver. A capital idea! ft was our salvatiqn-the driver turned his head from the policeman, and was deaf ase well as blind. At Kneeland street-the second quarter we came neck and neck   12        SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; with 'Washington,' and thus continued for the . next quarter. The fat woman, who had at first been so resolute, now put her mouth to the hole and screamed to the' driver to go on!-declaring if he al. lowed the other 'bus to distance him she would never patronize the line again. I held my time nervously. At that instant a chaise was struck and tipped over, but we could not stop for :rifles, and to our in- effable delight we shot ahead once more and came in at Dover street in 3:21, full four lengths ahead! We had won the race, but to my surprise--what I had been too much absorbed to notice before - none besides my sporting fair friend and myself were in the 'bus, the others having leaped out from fright. The other 'bus did not contain a sin- gle passenger - they, too, had vacated for the same cause. I en. joyed the sport, but I now regard racing as an evil." "Excellent," said Quiz. "Your description almost makes me wish for such an adventure. But what was done about it by the policeman v" "Lord bless your heart! He never troubled himself about the matter." They proceeded toward the police office, and as they strolled down the " dollar " side of Washington -street, Quiz observed a thousand little things interesting to strangers-but thoughts of which- seldom pop into the heads of residents in the metropolis. The stores, as a general thing on the " dollar " side, were attractive, well fitted up, and the exterior, as well as the interior, gave evidence that the pro- prietors did a paying business. The gas fixtures were fancifully arranged, the signs were ornamental, the interior well painted, deco- rated, and furnished. Goods for sale were displayed to the best advan- tage. There were in some stores places for shop worn goods, and also for goods of the best quality; in others, articles of inferior quality were so intimately blended and so intermingled with those of a better kind, that the trader had only to manipulate gracefully, use oily words, and with the most complete success to dispose of the poorer qualities for prices which more conscientious dealers could scarcely obtain for the best. The clerks were generally remarkably good-looking, well dressed, genteel, and well versed in the tricks of trade. Stores on the (' fourpenny " side, on the contrary, presented a more neglected appear- ance, although it must be confessed that there were exceptions, but not enough to redeem that side of the street from the stigma of " fourpenny ." There were grocery stores, paint shops, small milliners' establishments, drug stores, and furniture warehouses. On the "'dollar" side, mag- nificent dry goods stores, bazaars for lace and fancy goods, music and   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.        13 muslin stores, daguerrean establishments, galleries of statuary and paintings, jewelry stores, book stores, and concert halls, and in: fine, everything to be admired and to invite patronage. But there was a line too plainly drawn to be unobserved by one as curious as Quiz, which indicated that trade was fast creeping " up town," and that en- terprising merchants are fast obliterating all distinction between " four- penny :' and (" dollar " sides. Below Boylston Market, the distinction is even now very dimly defined, and were it not for the habit of fash- ionable people obstinately keeping on the right, it would not exist, ex- cept as a matter of history. A few more beautiful and magnificent silk and shawl stores, more elegant and superb granite and free-stone blocks, more marble buildings, and that side will become as fashionable a promenade as the other. They passed down the street, conversing upon various topics, and Quiz felt that he had been truly fortunate in making the acquaintance of Montgomery.      - "There are a hundred things you should see, a hundred places you should visit to-day, but pressing engagements will prevent me from showing you round till after dinner," said Montgomery, and added, "I will go with you to the police office, and you can give .notice of your loss to the police. But stop-no, no that would not, on the whole, -be proper. We'll talk of that by-and-by." "Any time that may suit you. But surely you will go and dine with me," replied Quiz, not willing that his friend should leave him. "The fact is, my boy, I have promised to dine with my friend, Capt. Dover, and can't, of course, break the 'engagement, but I will meet you at three o'clock, and we will go to the Neck-there is fine sport. All the sporting men in town will be there, and, by the way, I will bring out my team, and we will enjoy ourselves for an hour at the rate of 2:40." "Capital!" said Quiz, delighted with the idea. "What-will the Berk- shire boys say when I relate tp them my first day's adventures?" "What can they- say but to hate themselves the remainder of their precious lives, that they, too, had not " gone in to win " in their youth. But, Quiz, I say, where do you stop, because there are houses in this city with high sounding names, where a gentleman cannot stop with out compromising his honor - company, bah; tailors, dandies, fops, fools, and rascals. Yes, Quiz, there are genteel rascals--those who sponge everybody. But on the first opportunity I'll give you my defi- nition of city thieves; in the mean time take care of your money." 2   "      S SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS, ETC. "' I'm at the Revere," replied Quiz. "Oh, ah, yes, of course. But, Quiz, do you know I never patronize that house?" "No, and why not?"  "The fact is, their waiters are blockheads. Now I want waiters that can make themselves useful. Still it is a good house enough if you aie not particular about waiters." The clock struck twelve, -and the men parted with a promise to meet in the reading room of the Tremont at three o'clock. The objection of Montgomery to the Revere House, was about as well founded as those which are usually brought by individuals of his class against hotels, eating-houses, oyster saloons, theatres, con- certs, and, in fine, every establishment, the proprietor of which is too shrewd to become their dupe and who possesses sufficient firmness and resolution to bestow such treatment as they deserve. I There are many persons in this' city, and in all other cities, who manage by their cunning and dishonesty to sponge landlords, tailors, hatters, and, in fine, all of every trade and calling, who are so unfortunate as to regard them as patrons.   CHAPTER II. The Thief and Accomplice. A Plan to Fleece our Adventurer. The Neck. Public Buildings. An Evening at Union Hall. "What a lucky dog I am, to be sure," said Quiz to himself, after they had separated. "Now here is a fellow like myself; one who has got a moderate fortune and knows how to enjoy life. He knows all these places I have read of, I dare say, and if we don't have a precious time exploring the city, it will be because I have a sudden attack of mortal illness. So he is particular to know where I put up, what tav- ern I patronize-that proves him a gentleman. Don't find him at any of these common taverns-not him. Then he wanted me to take care of my money-prudent fellow. I only brought five hundred dollars, and I guess if I don't live too fast it 'll hold out; however, I'll take his advice." "I'll keep my money in an old tow bag, du da day," He sung, quite forgetful of his loss at the South part of the city. "That girl was pretty, I vow, very pretty; amiable, pleasant, inter- esting. By Jove, I don't believe she stole my money. In a great city like this there must be at least two women who bear so close a resem- blance that a man of ordinary perception might mistake one for the other, and I'll believe her innocent till she is proved guilty. Women may look alike,'surely. There was Mrs. Soule, who was said to be the very image of Margaret of Burgundy. , What the deuse is her name. She has got a name-but. I may meet her again." Such was the soliloquy of Quiz, as he walked to his hotel. But we may follow Montgomery, or "Curley," as he was better known. "Now I'm in luck. If greeny don't gain some experience and I some remuneration for putting him through a course of sprouts, I'll join the church. He takes the loss of a fifty spot very coolly. He's verdant, but he's made of the right stuff, and it's my duty to enlighten him into the mysteries of how some folks get a living. I've made a favorable impression. The verdant always appreciate moral princi-   16.       SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; ple and integrity, and I think I have put it on rather thick. I'll go and look after a share of the profits." So saying, Montgomery passed down Salem street to a certain locale at the North End, and without any difficulty soon met the female for whom Quiz had so gallantly provided a seat in the omnibus, that morning. "Are we alone, Kate?" he asked, as he entered a magnificently furnished apartment. "Yes, quite alone. There is nobody in this apart of the house. What do you want?" "I want twenty-five dollars." "Twenty-five devils-! What do you mean?" "I mean for you to fork over to me twenty-five dollars as my share of the dosh you got of that, flat this morning. Now don't go to being obstreperous, if you do I'll blow on you, and you'll lose the whole." "No threats, or you may go and do your prettiest, Curley. "Well, look here, fork over and we'll keep shady. I have got him right under my thumb. I can do what I please, and I know him like a book. I know every card of his hand. I have got a trump and an ace that will take the trick. He thinks you very pretty-and you did look respectable with those false teeth and that rouge." "You're a blackguard. But what do you propose?" Manage to meet him, in a day or two. We'll plan that, and we'll fleece him in the regular scientific way!" "Well, agreed. But, Curley, if you don't do as you promise, I'll be the death of you. Here's twenty-five. I got the toad-skin changed at a broker's." "Well, Kate, this ain't bad. You are a fourpence out for your ride, and I a ninepence out for the drinks." And Montgomery left and went to an eating house, which he was accustomed to frequent, and there dined; he then went to a bowling-alley, where he rolled till a few minutes before three o'clock, when he started towards the Revere House from which he had once been kicked out as a sponge, and on suspicion of being a blackleg. His dislike to the waiters of that popular estab- lishment might have arisen from the sudden and strong aversion he felt for one of the number, who, in the performance of his duty, showed him the quickest mode of egress. Montgomery was not a common thief, and had never been convict- ed of crime. He was one of a class of persons, in the city, who have an utter abhorrence of all work, and an excessive fondness for good  living. They are always well dressed, and always live well, so far   OR, PHASES OF LIFE I TOWN.        17 as gopd eating and good clothes go to make up life, and they are rather important items, in the minds of most-city people. Let a ,manfwith a rusty coat, or a shocking bad hat, a vest on .which the buttons are worn, pants threadbare and glossy, or dilapidated boots, appear on the street, in Boston-no matter if he is one of Nature's noblemen, aman of orthodox notions, honest, upright, and of every. good and noble quality-he's nothing and nobody, in the metropolis. People 1Qok at him aghast, just as if he had on the variegated suit, in .vogue in an institution in Charlestown. He owes nobody; he bought the; hat eighteen months ago, with three dollars, which he had honestly earned. No matter how he got it, the nap is worn off, the rim is too narrow, the shocking thing is antique, and, should be. among the by gones. The pants and coat, which he had labored weeks to pay for, might have answered well enough in theii' time, but should, long since, haue been consigned to John Smith, old do' dealer, in Brattle street. What, appear in Boston with a rusty suit! Sooner stay at. home till your dying day. You will bring everlasting disgrace on yQorself and all your friends. Don't, for the love of all that is loveable, speak to a friend or call at his residence, in Boston, if you have got on, your old clothes. Change your name, do,anything but let people call you a rusty, fusty, old fudge. You may have respectable connections- all the more reason you should not lose your self-respect by wearing threadbare clothes. You have got no money or friends? Then Heaven help you! You had better go and throw yourself off the end of Long Wharf, or, perhaps, what is more sensible, if not more satisfactory, on the whole-on the mercy of a tailor, a hatter, a bar- ber, boot-maker, and laundry proprietor. If you have got an honest face, it is as good as a letter of credit, and you may succeed. But don't victimize your tailor, or any of the trades that combine to make you respectable-these are your best -and firmest friends in Boston. A good hat and nicely-fitted boot have been the making of many a man, even of ordinary calibre. Don't make a fool of yourself by false promises, and of all things, don't wear old clothes in Boston. Montgomery knew what's what in this particular, and he put on good clothes, and a great many airs. He knew all the tailors of note, all the boot-makers who had acquired any reputation, all the gentle- men's furnishing goods dealers, and was a patron; consequently, he always looked well, and made a good impression, and that is every- thing, at least, in Boston. His taste in matters of dress, and his success in the gratification of it, were the only good points about him.   18       SIX DAYS iN THE METROPOLIS; But perhaps we do him injustice ; he was well educated, especially in the arts of rolling ten pins, shaking little shells, throwing dice, dealing fancy paste-board, manipulating with the thimble and appur- tenances, the 1" manly art" of self-defence, and in fine, all the accom- plishments usually possessed by men of his class. He was too lazy to work, too proud to beg, and chose rather- to draw his support from gaming and operations on green-horns. Careful not to commit any act which would be likely to call the particular attention of the police to him, he lived in comparative security-a slippery fellow. Re- spected by none except those of his class, feared by a few, despised by all honest men who knew him, his operations always suspected. Montgomery, in turn, cared for nobody. His manners, when he had occasion to make capital of them, were courteous and winning ; and in fine, he was one of the most accomplished scoundrels in Boston. "It is nearly three," said Montgomery, A" and I must not forget that I have promised to go out to the Neck, with my fly team, this after- noon. Ha! ha! let's see, where is my-team? Not at Fullam's, for I think he knows me-he has'nt forgot the sorrel mare and the drive to Porter's. Oh, no, guess my team ain't there. It can't be at Niles's. Ha, ha, ha, that was a capital joke I perpetrated when I went out to I Brighton, took down everything on the road, stopped at the Punch Bowl, got tight, broke the chaise, lamed the horse, and on reaching the stable, ordered the charge to be placed to the old account., But I must have a team. Niles, Fullam, American, New England-all A No. 1 stables, but I must look elsewhere to-day. By Jove, a lucky thought-there's Simpkins & Co., young and enterprising men, just entering the business, opened a fine livery stable-good horses-solicit a share of patronage. I am a customer. In a few moments he appears at the stable-of Simpkins & Co., orders their best horse and sleigh, is particular about the harness, the bells, the whip, and the leopard skin; he hurries the hostler, threat- ens not to patronize the stable again if they deceive him in the small"- est particular; he is minute in his inquiries about the gait and habits of the animal, and a hundred other little matters, which go to corroborate the early impressions of Simpkins that his patron knows horse flesh. He finally received his team, and just as the clock of the Old- South was striking three, he drove up in front of the Tremont. Quiz was punctual as a tick, and off they started in fine style, for the Neck. Their way was not so direct as it might have beer, as they saw fit to notice one or two saloons by the way, which might afterwards serve   OR, PHASES OF LiFE IN TOWN.  ,   ,  19 as landmarks for Quiz. They finally drove up at BuffCooley's. Hi, yah! g'r lang! A crack of the whip when full three hundred yards distant, and-the nag travelled beautifully. There was mettle for you; fleet as an antelope, graceful as a fawn. Like lightning he dashed on, and in a moment turned the corner, and was at the Washington House. It was just the best piece,of horse-flesh on the Neck, and nmany were the expressions of admiration by the sporting men who were there in advance of them. Old Buff and the Washington' House will long be remembered by Quiz. But whether he took it hot or cold, with a stick in it, or with ice, it's for the smelling com- mittee to determine. You can't always tell. The Neck presented a most animated scene : sleighs of every de- scription gliding like lightning, the drivers urging'on their horses to. their utmost speed, and everybody in the highest state of " nervous excitement." There was "Empire," "Hawk War," "Eastern Belle," "Stallion," and all the fast horses. Stand back! Here they come! Clear the track! The most intense excitement prevails! "Arrow" is ahead, but "Little Bill" gains on him-there-there they are, neck and neck, on like lightning! Heavy bets are pending, but- confusion-horror-a country pung obstructs the street, and a col- lision takes place; the fancy sleigh is broken into a thousand. pieces., Ned is thrown into .the street. "Little Bill," cleared from the sleigh, now, swift as lightning, dashes down Washington street, and is soon out of sight. ' Arrow " is reined up, and matters wear a most be- ligerent aspect. The country bumpkin is unhurt, and his precious pung about as much injured as if it had come in collision with a boy's sled. The party would fight if they dared, but although a sound drubbing might teach Jonathan to keep his pung to the ex. treme right in all future time, when going out on the Neck, it might subject the sporting fraternity to some inconvenience-as it would doubtless break up racing on the Neck. So with any number of oaths, and about as many snow-balls from the crowd, directed at the unfortunate and verdant driver of the pung, his exit is materially hastened. The loss of one sleigh, or the appearance of one broken head, by no means interrupts the sport. If a nag, as in the present case, with- draws himself, another competitor appears, and another heat is run, without loss of time. The demolition of half-a-dozen sleighs, the ap. pearance of broken heads, flowing of claret, &c., are matters of common occurrence, and are incidents which add to the excitement of the sport.   20   .     SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; The day was fine, and an hou'r or two passed away pleasantly, when Quiz and his friend returned, highly delighted with thOe sport. Quiz congratulated Montgomery on possessing so fine a horse, and made a proposition to purchase. Of course the offer was declined. Mont- gomery thought morie of the animal than he could of a wife ; he had owned him a long time ; tried him often, and knew every point about him. Ask him to make-any other-sacrifice, but to part with his horse. Quiz ceased to urge him. In returning, they drove by the Opera House, Music Hall, and other public buildings, and the architecture of these was the subject of re- mark. He was struck with the lack of uniformity in them, and observed that no one style of architecture seemed to prevail. The artists -who designed them might have possessed great inventive genius, but very little taste. Many private residences, which are of the most cost- ly description, are sadly defective in proportion and uniformity.- But it was not for Quiia who had been brought up in Berkshire, to comment upon such matters. He also observed the fashions, as he passed down Washington street, and saw much to create surprise, and to arouse his curiosity. He observed a number of very good-looking men, of seeming intelli- gence, who wore upon their shoulders variegated shawls. He had heard of bloomers, and had read accounts of women's rights conven- tions, he knew that certain strong-minded women had adopted peculiar styles of dress, to impress the public with a proper sense of their rights, but it had never entered his unsophisticated brain that men in Bos- ton had to contest any rights. He supposed that they enjoyed the largest liberties, and he was, therefore, at a loss to assign a satisfac- tory cause for their wearing shawls. Will they ever get to wearing rigolettes? Probably they will, as they progress in refinement- and taste. -.It cannot be that these shawl-clad gentlemen cannot afford overcoats, or the ladies would, long ago, have taken up contributions for them; it must, then, either be for the purpose of making some demonstration, for some cause known only to themselves; it must be that they belong to some secret, and, perhaps, dangerous society, or it may be the result of a perverted taste. If they persist 'in wearing this article of ladies' apparel, there must be made such a distinction as "'male 'and female men," or strong-minded men. Per- haps; however, the regvrse would be more expressive of their calibre. Quiz set his face against the style, from whatever motive it might sprint. .   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.        21 He remarked the great number of eye-glasses and 'gold-bowed specs as another indication of improvementi taste, and thought if nothing should transpire to affect the " tide in the affairs of men," goggles; plain and colored, would soon come into vogue. Other equally ridiculous innovations attracted his notice, and called forth an emphatic expression of disgust. He determined to see the fashions by gas-light, and accepted an invi.  tation of Lieut. Lacy, to whom he- had had the honor of an intro. duction, to visit Union Hall. Lieut. Lacy was in favor with the ladies, and well he might be, for he was a gentleman in the broadest sense of the word; and his appearance was certainly prepossessing. "Here are a   few lines, Quiz, quite appropriate to the ball- room," said Lieut. Lacy, as he called for our hero, at nine o'clock that evening. "Well, be kind enough to repeat them." "You may recognize the author :"- ' The moment night with dusky mantle covers The skies, (and the more duskily ihe better,) The time less liked by husbands than by lovers, Begins, and prudery flings aside her fetter, And gaiety on restless tip-toe hovers, Giggling with all the gallants who beset her. "But here the muse with due decorum halts, And lends her longest petticoat to waltz." "Bravo!" said Quiz. "Now I  am ready. Here goes twenty five dollars for a visit to Union Hall," he 'added, as he endeavored to en- case his hands in a  pair of white kids. Boots, hat, and kids-these  are important items on such occasions," replied Lacy. Taking a hack, they were soon drove to Union Hall. Lacy was fond of the pleasures of the ball-room, and on their way to the hall entertained Quiz by a discussion upon the morality of dancing. Said he: "Its antiquity is undoubted. King David executed an impromptu polka on one occasion, and we are told of a young woman who entranced the Governor of Judea with a  Pas Seul, previous to cutting off his head. But now that these good old times lave passed and gone, we have improved the Style of-danciAg, if not of norals.  The Polka of Bohemia, the Mazurka of Warsaw, the' Schottische of Vienna, and La Tenmpete of Paris, have now displaced 3   22;       sIX DAYS IN, TAS XT3iWWLOtS,;: the cotjllon and contra dance. These aqxercises, allow: the-utmost freedom." , The more freedom the better,' I suppose is the motto of the. people, generally, in Boston. Well, this, city is, a dreadful wicked place. This is what Parson Elderb!owr would call total, depravityr" said Quiz, to himself, but the last sentence was. not uttered aloud. ffhey soon arrived, and entered the. hall. It is, one of those places where old and young meet together for a few. hours of delirious de- light, to be paid for by the next. day's misery. A scene of splendor and magnificence was before his eyes, such as he had never before beheld, and which entranced! and bewildered him. The brilliancy of the scene, the witching music, the number of beautiful ladies attired in the, most elegant dresses, wjth profusions of wreaths, bouquets, and glittering jewels; the fine looking men be- stowing their attentions upon the ladies.; the,appropriate and tasteful decorations of the hall, and, withal, the blaze of light, entranced' the' senses of our Berkshire friend, and for a moment he fancied that he had, in a dream, been transported to fairy land. It surpassed, in brilliancy, all that he had ever heard or. read:. Lacy, as well as Quiz, had come only as an observer, not intending -to mingle in the mazy dance. The drawing-rooms arid galleries were crowded with ladies supposed to be handsome;. and men who have learned the code of Lord Chesterfield behind the counter of Sponge'em & Co.'s silk and shawl bazaar. The party looked well, coiillctively, bpt Lacy could see beneath the rouge, chalk, and cologne, which was so liberally used by the ladies, and the celebrated hair dye with which the gentlemen beautify their incipient moustaches and thinly-scattered whiskers. He called the attention of Quiz to some of these particulars, which rather detracted from the high estimate he had formed of the company. Now and then they had the pleasing., contradiction of light hair and blarck moustaches, with yet another color of whiskers, where the coloring was not done by an artist, and consequently did not " take." Oc- casionally they observed a lady who had indulged in too violent exercise, and whose -careless application of her richly embroidered handkerchief, to dry the perspiration, had removed, little patches of rouge, and somewhat- marred the beauty of her face. They saw that much, which had at first appeared beautiful and attractive, was the work of art-in some cases very indifferent work, and that the grand object of each was to deceive others.   at, PHASES OP LIVE IM YOWN       CIO Whein these evidn;es of ,duplicity were pointed out to Mr. Quiz hoe 'o far forgt his" propriety as to exclaim, "Oh! the awful wicks iedness of Boston people." He was not, however, disposed to recall the expression which had escaped his lips, when Lacy called his attention to a gentleman and lady  who were enjoying a tete a'tete, near a window, at some distance from them, and observed: "That young lady is the daughter of a wealthy merchant, on Milk street, and is a beautiful and confiding creature--innocent and artless, the pride, of indulgent parents; the gentleman, as we must call him here, is a gambler of the worst description, who, by some means, has gained the acquaintance of the lady, and has won her confidence and esteem. He is a libertine, a scoundrel, and should he ever receive justice, will be sent to the State Prison. To-mor- row, he may be found in the prop-rooms, bowling-alleys, and rum. shops, of the city, following his profession of gambling, robbery, theft, and worse crimes. He will soon speak her name in ribald jest, as among his victims." Quiz was dumb with amazement, and Lacy continued : "You will now be good enough to examine that rather magnifi- cently developed and very showy girl, who, by the crowd of gentlemen about her, seems acknowledged to be la belle du bal. She is yet young, but has to answer several very severe cases - of flirtation-- severe, to the other party, for she is either naturally heartless, or, what is more likely, her heart was stolen, long ago, and, perhaps, car- ried to California, or some other mysterious place. Her fine auburn hair is-arranged a la Thillon; her eyes blue and expressive; her lips -Heavens! what lips. I would give two very large doughnuts to be allowed the exclusive control over them for five minutes. She has the ease and freedom of a woman of the world. Her dress is in good taste, and fits as though it were from the hands of a Parisian mantuao maker. . She sees the folly of the scene, and, ever and anon, ex- changes a quiet joke with her companion, whose sparkling' eye beams with mischief. "They are inseparables-Miss D. and Mrs C.-very popular among' the gentlemen of their acquaintance, and of course, very much env ) vied and detested by the ladies. They are very often seen at the theatres, and as Miss D. is a very pretty girl, she attracts no little attention." Our observing pair promenade the hall,and Lacy advances to say   24       SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS, ETC. something which he considers very funny to Miss D., when some individual, who rejoices in a moustache, a blue coat with brass buttons, and a large amount of impudence, interferes, and requests Miss D. to waltz. Now the lady waltzes well, and is, of course, fond of admiration ; therefore, he of the moustache pleads not in vain, and in a second she is whirledsaway in the embrace of him who looks like a "( swell mob." "There's another attractive young woman-let's have a peep at her. Short in stature, well formed, a handsome bust, black eyes and good ones, and black hair. She is not pretty in the face-the lower part of it is too -heavy, but she is, graceful, and a splendid dancer. That musical gentleman next to her in the quadrille has evidently a mortgage on her fancy--heart for love she has none. She dismissed a poet a while ago, and he indignantly buried himself in Australia. She is now learning to eat maccaroni. She has a good heart,!but a lamentable deficiency of brains." "One more portrait: That lady with the long golden hair disposed in ringlets, the full blue eyes, small mouth and aquiline nose. She is a pretty girl, and she knows it. She moves about with dignity, and she looks more like a purse-proud aristocrat than what she really is- an attendant in a daguerreotype saloon. No one would think ithose lips would be opened to say ' Any price, ma'am, from seventy-five cents to one dollar,' or, 'Already to set you, now, sir.' But it, is a melancholy fact, as you can see by calling any day at No. - Washington street." "Away they all go now. It is what they call a gallopade, and I must say that even my ideas of morality, not particularly severe, are somewhat shocked at the exceeding familiarity which seems to; exist among people who never saw each other before this night. Of a verity, the dance levels all distinction. The barriers of modesty are lowered before the indecencies of the polka, the ice of prudence melts under the sun of the schottische, but luckily the re-action comes as soon as the dance is concluded. Perhaps the female is just as good as ever." Just then a march announced supper, and mingling with the com- pany, they entered the supper room and did not return to their lodgings till a late hour. Quiz had been introduced to a select few and had promised to look in again.   CHAPTER III SECOND DAY. An Hour in the Police Court. . Every-day Scenes. Characters and Fixtures.. The Scales of Justice. The Misfortunes of Mrs. O'Flanagan. No more Trials. Quiz had laughed a thousand times, and who has not, over sketches of Western courts, but he had never dreamed that scenes equally ludicrous and extraordinary occur frequently in the Police Court of Boston. On the second day after his arrival it was his good fortune to gain admittance to this minor temple of justice. It was about 11 o'clock; the morning business had commenced, and the machinery was in successful operation. Before entering, Quiz liad observed a throng of persons crowding in at a rear entrance of the Court House, and therefore wisely resolved to enter by the door used by the officials. So, brushing hastily along, he arrived at the entrance, but the door was closed and locked. To rap might be presumptuous in one unacquainted with the locality. He, therefore, waited a moment for something to "m urn up;" and it did. There was soon an " opening," and out issued a fat, squalid Irish woman, who. had just'been bailed on probation, and who, by the way, was consid- ered a hopeful case, as this was only the sixteenth time she had been arrested for drunkenness within a month. .The appearance of :the woman was a, fortunate circumstance, as it enabled Quiz to avail b: himself of the opportunity to enter the court-room; and yet the meeting was, on the whole, decidedly disagreeable, as the collision nearly knocked him down, and before he could recover himself, Con- stable Spoor appeared and was about to close the door, but evidently mistaking our curious friend for a reporter, allowed him to enter. . The scene was such as may be witnessed almost every day, but to Quiz it was full of interest. On the bench was the Justice, an old gentleman with a very good-natured phiz, the-rotundity of which indicated that he was fond of goodliving; his thin hair was brushed back, revealingka high and massive forehead; his spectacles rented A,   26        SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; upon the extremity of his nose, and his jolly face leaned upon both hands, his elbows being sustained on one side' by a copy of the Revised Statutes, and on the other by the City Ordinances. In this free and easy position, with peculiar grace and dignity, His Honor cast his eyes over the court-room with a complacent air which might lead one to suppose that he was repeating to himself the lines which have immortalized Selkirk--        ! "I am monarch of all I survey." Just in front of him was the clerk's desk, at which two gentlemen sat, as busy (no offence to either party) as the old Nick. One was a man- of about fifty-five, whose hair had just begun to turn of an iron color, and whose face, though neither decidedly prepossessing or ugly, wore a most indescribable expression, and whose movements attracted the particular notice of Quiz. The spasmodic contractions of the muscles of his nose, which Quiz observed, he attributed toithe effect of the effluvia of the court-room in general, and the immediate exhalations from the prisoners' bench in particular. The clerk is a thorough business man, and his chirography, like that of many other great men, is of a peculiar style. His frequent and exceedingly polite expressions to the officers, and his urbanity in addressing the" Justice-which he did in a " business " way-convinced Quiz. that he was no ordinary man. On the left of this officer was a younger man, the assistant clerk, whose sedate and thoughtful expression of countenance bespoke volumes of sympathy for the wretches who are brought before the Court. In, front, and facing them, was the bar, doubtless intended for the accommodation of lawyers, but the profession was iiot remarkably well represented. The occupants were, two "'philan !t. thropists," a law student, three loafers, and one nondescript. -In tl-e rear of this interesting class were some half dozen reinarkably fine looking, intelligent men, whose note-books and pencils denoted their profession. They were the indefatigable individuals who furnish the readable reports of the Police Court 'proceedings. They ate a discreet body, and true philosophers--they see more than they com- municate; and should it enter the brain of any of these' worthies, heireafter to expose the " aside " performances which they not unfre. quently observe, but on which they are at present as dumb--as oysters,  they might a " tale unfold " which would " cause the very 'stones of Rome to rise in mutiny and rage," and call, in stentorian voicesi for a private settlement at Parker's or Hastings'. ,            ,J   9R, PHASES o. , LIFflE T TOIW.     27 T,h sh gentlemen seemed to recognize'Quiz, (perhaps. from their proverbial habit of qpigzing,) and had our hero possessed the: moral courage to have taken aseat by them, his:" feelinks" would; have been spared the agony he experienced when Constable Vialle exclaimed in a tone of thunder, "Gentlemen must be seated, or I shall commit them," Here was a severe trial for Quiz-not a seat was to be found, yet " be seated " he must, or, (if Mr. Vialle was in earnest, and it was faire to presume he was,) he would have an opportunity to ex- amine .the lock room. He looked around for a precedent to sit on the floor, when he was relieved from the dilemma by the politeness of one of the, reporters--an act that he will ever hold in grateful remem- brance. With the exception of a narrow aisle, the room was occu- pied- by, witnesses and spectators. The stranger who visits the court-room, for the first time, feels -a wonderful'degree of pity steal- ing over his; heart. for the poor, devils, who, trembling (with fear or delirium tremens,) step reluctantly to the prisoners' bar. Quiz felt great sympathy for several unfortunate, and guilty beings, and but for, thecertalnty of being regarded -by all as a remarkably verdant individual, would have paid the fines of, two or three. His whole soul waqsaroused with pity and grief when he saw two "nice" younc women sentenced to the House of Correction, and he exclaimed in a subdued tone, ".Bless my heart, can't something be done for these poor. women .'? A waggish reporter suggested that Justice Cushing had done all that was. advisable in the premises, but the words were caught up, by a " philanthropist," who indulged in the most violent invectives against the officers, whom he charged with merciless persecution. But Quiz felt his fire of pity and indignar tion essentially subdued when he was -assured, by one who. knew, that:theyy, were .the-.most; depraved and abandoned wretches from the :' most loathsome haunts of the city, and that the term philanthropist had a signification in this court-room synonymous with " meddler, humbug, bore, '[an intruder, and speculator, in the misfortunes of humanity."  A number of prisoners had been brought up from the lock-room, and now-sat in anxious suspense awaiting the orderof the Court. Patrick :fiQuillin was examined on a charge of assaulting Mary O'Elanagan. Pat winked to the, reporters, as, he stepped upon the prisoners' stand, as if to assure them that it was all right so far. as he was. concerned. The clerk read the complaint, and addressed the   28       sIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; usual question-"What say you-are you guilty or not guilty?" "Not guilty, your honor; by the powers I am not guilty. I give her a bat side of the head, but you don't call that assaulting her, do ye?" "Certainly. Did you strike her? If so, you must plead guilty." "Guilty, do ye say, guilty? me, Patrick McQuillin, guilty? Must I say guilty? Well, thin, if ye plase, I'm not guilty of assaulting her, but guilty of hitting her a bat," replied Pat, with an evident desire to impress the clerk with the distinction between a "bat" and an assault. "Well, Mr. Powers," said the Justice, " let theLwoman tell her story." "( Step up here, woman. If this defendant has done anything to you, tell the Court all about it." "It was not the defindent, your honor, it was Pat McQuillin, the dirty blackguard!" "Well, well, woman, address yourself to me." "Your honor, ye know I was down to my own house, in Killkenny Alley, that goes out -of Ann street, near North street, just where Mike O'Connell lives-he that works on the wharf, ye know, for fifty cints a day." "Well, let that go. What did he do to you?" "Ah, yer honor, I'm coming to that immediately. Ye'lknow, I was in the kitchen, as paceable as a dacent woman ought to be, and Mrs. Mahoney, the lady that lives up four pair of stairs above me, come down to bring some dirthy water, and says she, ' Mrs. O'Flan- agan!'" "What," says I. *  "Ye know the fence fornenst the house that is out doors," says she.  "I do," says I. "That dirty blackguard of Pat McQuillin is sticking bills all over it," says she. "It will never do at all," says I, not in anger at all, yer honor. "Where is the broom-stick," says I, that I may whack it over his head, says I, meaning only to frighten him away, yer honor. "Yod must have been i  an amiable temper at that time," re- marked the Court. "Ah, my lord, she's a deceitful woman, and divil a bit did she 'f            *     .   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.       -29 stop for the blarney, but gave me a bat that knocked my brains out intirely." "Stop, sir, stop. Go on, witness." "I went out, and Pat, says I, you're a blaclguard, says I." "What for? says he." "It is because you're a plastering your dirty bills all over my fence, and I a lone widdy, says I, and with that he whacked me on the head with the paste-brush, saying niver a word," "O, Lord. says I, and my hair was all stuck together with the paste, to be sure. Here it is, yer honor," said she, removing a cap with a very deep frill, and exposing a head of hair that was completely matted with dried paste. "Your worship do you suppose I'd be-after treating a woman so? It's herself that has been kneading up the hair of her, for the sale of having me sent to the House of Correction, your honor." "What did you do then, witness?" asked the Justice. "Sure, and a sweet drubbing I gave him." "Will your honor give me a fine?" asked Pat, with anxiety, seeing that a case was made out. His wish was complied with; he was found guilty, and sentenced to pay a heavy fine. There is often a strange commingling of the ludicrous and the pitifil, so that the spectator can scarcely refrain from a burst of laughter at the exclamation or peculiar appearance of some poor wretch, while in another moment he almost unconsciously examines the state of his finances for the purpose of paying the prisoner's fine and releasing him from custody. The clerk now throws down his large book of records, and exclaims "No more trials," and the crowd begins to leave the court-room. Quiz was about to go, too, when some one "up '" in all the dodges of the day, whispered to him that the announcement was all a ruse to clear the pent-up, ill-ventilated room, now heated and filled with poisonous air; so if the officer had told a " fib" it was in self-defence. A large portion of the spectators had been drawn hither from cu- riosity to witness the sufferings of those more unfortunate, but per- haps in many cases, not more guilty than themselves; others hada come to sympathize with their friends who were in custody, or to learn the fate of their comrades, while a portion of the motley throng in the rear of the court-room were loafers of the worst de- scription, who, perhaps would not hesitate to rob their own parehts, could they do it without risk of detection. 4   30        SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; "No more trials, eh?" said a burly and wicked-looking individual of the group, who was evidently disappointed. "Who believes that? It's only a dodge to get rid of us; there'll be some fun up yet. But he can't sell me," he added with a knowing wink to his companion. "There's Kate Dunn. She is to be tried, and she's pretty, so the papers say." "Yes," another replied, "and this is the first time she has ever been brought up. Wonder if she'll cry like a baby, or will she laugh in the old fellow's face, as Biddy Smith did, who wasl'sent over South?" After a little whispering between the clerk and an officer who was very busy in shuffling papers, although it had been announced that there would be " no more trials," business again proceeded. In a few minutes the door of the lock-room was opened, and Kate entered, ac- companied by an officer. She was thinly clad, and her pale face was partly concealed by a shawl. The complaint was hurriedly read. It charged her with the crime of larceny. When she first stepped upon the platform'allotted to prisoners, either from a belief that she should be acquitted, or from a desire to exhibit fortitude and daring, she assumed a look of indifference, smiled, and tossed her head haugh- tily. "What have you to say?" asked the Court, glancing at the clock as he spoke. The girl hesitated. "Nothing to say," observed the officer in attendance. Very well," said the Judge. "Has she been here before?" "Yes, your honor, two years ago," replied a watchman who was interested. "I don't exactly remember the case, but I recollect her perfectly." "No, please your honor," said the prisoner, in a tremulous voice. "I was never here before. I was not in the city two years ago." "Your honor," rejoined the petty officer, insultingly, "the girl does not tell the truth." "The clerk can tell by looking at the records," said the Judge, who-- was really a humane man, and evidently felt a spark of sympathy for the prisoner. "She don't look like a very bad girl," he continued, as he looked over his spectacles into her face. "Yes, here is her name," said the-clerk. "She was sentenced two years ago this very month, as a common drunkard." "Yes, your honor," obsequiously chimed in a watchman, "4she was abusive to her husband and children."   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.       31 "Well, girl, how is that?" "It is false, sir, I am not married," said the prisoner. "How dare you contradict a watchman?" whispered one of the witnesses, who had been called for the government. "Well, now, I don't know about all this. You sayshe has been up here before, and she says she has not. Why can't youiboth tell one story?" "Your honor,"-- "Be still, girl. I want to understand this matter. Now it will be a good deal better for you to tell the truth," said Justice Cushing; then turning to an officer, he said :- "Just tell her, Mister Officer, that if she tells me a falsehood I shall be greatly disappointed, and I don't know but it will be worse for her."              i "But, your honor, it is false." Yes, I know you say so, but here's a watchman who is called as a witness-you don 't suppose he would tell a falsehood, do you? Think again, now-people's memories are sometimes treacherous." But as it appeared that she was less than sixteen years old, the Judge thought the record must refer to some one else of the same name. A light fine was therefore inposed, but being unable to pay it, she was hurried away to the lock-up. As the prisoner passed from the court-room, a female followed her, and now returned weeping bitterly. She was the mother of the prisoner, and her heart was bursting with grief. Whether Kate was a wayward child or an in- nocent victim to circumstances, Quiz knew not, but as he observed the mother leave the court-room, wringing her hands in agony, he thought how false were the words, "No more trials." Leave the prisoner, she is not alone! Drunkards, thieves, and felons / are with her, awaiting the arrival of the prison-carriage. With no agreeable motions, Quiz left the court-room.     -   CHAPTER IV. Visit of Quiz to the Legislature. Peculiar Proceedings. Queer Doings of the Members.  Sketch of the Reporters. Several  Portraits. Among the friends made by Quiz, in the Tremont House, were several members of the great and General Court, then in session, whose ideas of the mighty importance of their vocation were cer- tainly not less elevated than the vocation itself. A promise made to one -of these gentlemen, compelled our hero, not at all unwillingly, to pay a visit to the State House, and witness the important process of legislation; and thither he went in company with his friend, one morning. The member from Huckleberry Cdrner introduced Quiz to the Sergeant-at-arms-the venerable and gentlemanly Stevens-the pat- tern of politeness and propriety-the living example of the victory of a due performance of duty over the prejudices and partizanships of the day-which duty so performed, has enabled him to keep his post, amid all the changes of government, and all the choppings of the coalition guillotine, so destructive to the prospects of whig fogy office- holders. We do not mean to insinuate, that because a man is a whig, he is a fogy; all we meant to say was, that some of the whig office- holders in the State, prior to the Boutwellian era of government, had nearly rusted to'their appointments, and were only drawn therefrom at the expense of a general cracking of their heart-strings. Mr. Stevens, with all that suavity which characterizes the man, at all times and under all circurastances, heralded the way of our friend Quiz down through the body of the House of Representatives and thence upwards, by a narrow stair-case, into "Oregon "--a title the Eastern gallery of the House has earned on account of its terri- torial character. The WAestern gallery- is called Texas, from, the same cause. Here Quiz could sit and overlook the whole of the House, and note peculiarities in procedure, of whatever nature mem- bers, or others, might prefer to follow.         I Alongside of where he sat were two members, manifestly from   PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.         33 the country, who were doing up a few literary chores, previous to the meeting of the House-that hour not having yet arrived. But a few had entered the hall, and nq;hing more noteworthy having pow- er to engage Quiz's attention, he devoted it to the imbibation of those beauties which emanated from the conversation of the parties at his side. We ought to state, that the session had only been ten days old, and that members were taking advantage of their having voted thernselves each fifteen newspapers per week, during the legislative term. "Well," said member No. 1, ("I guess I 'll put in this list; seems to me it 's about right. Look at it?" No. 2 took the paper, and read:--"Atlas, 1; Chronicle, 1; Jour- nal, 1; Courier, 1; Post, 1. Why do you take the Chronicle and the Post?" '; Why, you see, I promised Ephraim Jenks, that keeps the tav- ern in our tovan, to let himl have the Chronicle, during the session, for a dollar; and the Post I send to my brother-in-law, who's a great loco, and something of a kind friend. He isn't married, and he's got something in the corner besides old boots, you know." "Edzackly!" replied No. 2, proceeding with the list: "Gleason's Pectoral, 5 --five on 'em one sort. What on airth do you do with the hull five?" "The truth 'is, you observe, that that paper sells better than some; so does that thing they call ' Long, long ago '-no, that's not it-the ' Living Age '-of which you see I have taken three copies. I can get a dollar and ninepence a quarter for the ones with the pictures, and as much for the'others. Don't you see the dodge? The otheor two-are my town paper and the Flag-the ' True Flag'--which our woren folks somehow like almost as well as Icould say. That makes the fifteen. I keep the Journal to myself, and the Atlas and Courier I send to my father and father-in-law, in New Hampshire." "Being in favor of the liquor law, I don't see that you take the Life Boat. Do you have it already?" "No, I don't; but it's of little consequence, for it's no paper for news; and temperance principles is not supported by papers, but by. voting right here." "It seems to me to be diabolically opposite to .the design of the spirit of the vote giving us newspapers, to amalgamate on our lists papers we do not use, but briefly and emphatically, take to sell, Don't you think so -"   34        SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; "Gas! Use papers here! Why, man, the less information we, have, ds members, the better qualified we are, some say;- and if so, let us, by all means, use the besttmethods to keep information from us." "It looks to me as there oughter to be something superhumanly conscientious in every representative, and I don't coincide with the observation you have just -circumvented; but I forgot [and No. 2 poked No. l's ribs jocularly] this is your second year, and the influ- ence of the Boston clique must have undetermined your morals. A dollar and a quarter for Gleason, did you say? And what for the others?"  Here the Speaker's hammer fell on his desk, and the House was called to order. "Ah!" thought Quiz, as the two worthies descended to the floor, "if that new member does not scratch Zion's Herald, The Life Boat, The Ploughman, and all those sorts of papers, from his list, before an hour hence, I will lose my reputation as a prophet. What in the name of heaven can stand before the love of lucre? Nothing!" The House having come to order, the Clerk, (who looks like a pic- ture of Bacchus, with a confirmed Mainelaw proclivity) read the pro- ceedings of the former day in a tone loud enough for any one to hear, who was not purposely deaf. Members, generally, seemed to be in this lamentable predicament, and drowned the stentorian voice of their officer with the' hum of thejr jokes and greetings, as they crowded in from the lobbies, on each side. Anon a prayer was reverently offered, and listened to. Perhaps a more brief petition-might have been equally effective; perhaps not. Quiz thought for himself when he thought the former the most prob- able.  Petitions were called for, and were sent up to the chair by mem- bers-some of whom, to distinguish themselves, read the endorse- ments upon their charges before entrusting them to the Speaker.- The older members did not do so. Honors sit easier and more grace- fully on some men, than on others; and if there is a really unhappy being, it is the man, who, knowing he is representative from a town, can find no opportunity to represent himself in the legislature. A pe- tition in the hands of one of those hard-ups, Quiz was told, was a God-send; and we are not far from believing in the information.- The petitionings were announced by the Speaker, after which there was a five minutes' buzz and bustle, and a hustling about among the   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.       35 reporters, after data, which the noise prevented their collecting dur- ing the announcement of the petitions. Speaking of reporters, Quiz soon noted that these were the most popular people in thetIouse. Every membv looked as if he was, and wished to be, on good terms with them. Jolly fellows, too, they looked-careless of care, and brimful of jocularity. Sage men crept up to their desks, stood for a moment, and chatted, then left with not a wrinkle in their countenances which was not galvanized by mirth, and laden with mirthful dispensation. The reporter's desk, at the left of the Speaker, seemed to be the hot-bed of fun. Two hundred pounds, and more, of laughing humanity officiates in that quarter, and wages eternal war on bile. When MooRE, of the Journal, (the oldest reporter we have, and the happiest,) has time for the work, the blue devils go scampering before his tongue and pencil, in quick time. As a caricaturist, he is unrivalled for speed and bottom, and nothing' grotesque in speech ornbehavior escapes him. Quiz, by the aid of his friend, the member from Huckleberry Corner, secured one of MOORE's slap-dash cartoons. This was entitled "A Shaks- pearian emendation," and represented a naked leg, with protuber- ances of knee, calf, shin, heel (especially,) and toe, outraging the common proportions in a very marked degree. As a motto, it bore the following:- "There's a divinity that shapes our ends, Rough-shoe them as we will." The coadjutor of the jolly Scotchman (for Moore is a Caledonian,) is from the sister isle of Hibernia, and the way he cracks off the jokes is a lesson to wits at large. CLARK is "one of them;" and- may that budding moustache of his bloom and spread until its Kossuthian proportions rival those of a Moravian Jew! On the op- posite side reportorial activity is less'observable, the representatives of the press there, being, generally, holders of stocks considerably below par, and serious story-writers for the safer description of family newspapers. But the bustle of legislation' has commenced, and fun of the in- dependent sort is laid aside for future opportunity. -The orders of the day-that is, the routine of business-has been taken up, and a debate springs up on a bill rectifying some abstract point of law, which few care about, and fewer could understand if they did. - In an untrained legislative body it is always difficult to preserve the question before- the House in its pure integrity. One gentleman not   3i6        SIX nD DAYS IN THE KEIOPOLIS; having the fear of exposing his ignorance before the world, catching at a general sentiment, takes opportunity to slash away at the Boston members, and the filthy morality of w4ich (as he insinuates,) they are the special defenders. Quiz thinks the man must be some- what nearly related to a certain animal with an auricular longitude somewhat remarkable, and wonders whether the reporters will expose his stupidity.. Next morning -he looks over all the papers for this expose, but discovers no mention made of the indiscreet speech. "Ah!." says he to himself, "what amount of indebtedness does not the member from Brobdignag owe to the reporters! Their dis- cretion has saved him, certainly, from the censure of his con- stituency; " but, much to Quiz's surprise, a day or two afterwards, he sees the speech printed-in the "Brobdignag Cut throat and Ter- ror of the Times," as reported by the representative of that flourish- ing town, and not one word of the originaloration in it! Dishonesty, thy name is politician! But the truth of the declaration is so noto- rious, that it has become almost stale. The bill to authorize the formation of a ship canal from Jamaica Pond to the Back Bayl, next came up; and what "the American Eagle soaring in' its majesty," and "the constitutional rights of millions-yet unborn," or "lthe corporate influences which concentrate themselves in Lowell," can have to do with the proposed bill, Heaven r alone' knows; certain it is, they ate all brought along to oppose it, and if it lives after such opposition, it must have as many lives as a cat. Men from the far'-off mountains of Berkshire, who can see through four miles aind- a half of the Hoosac Mountains, with the same ease as they can descry an object through a mill-stone with a hole through it, cannot discern one inch of the perspective of the Ja- maica Pond and Back lBay: canal-not they!  "In such fa:shion," soliloquized Quiz, "men, in general, cannot discover anything but what deeply concerns their own interests.-- Give it, and take it, are extraordinary opposites; they twist more con- sciences out of joint, than all the custom-house oaths that ever-were uttered." Quiz was right. But what is this? Another subject has taken possession of the House. The Maiihe Law is involved in the mintter. There is mere- ly a report of a cofimmitee to accept ;,but its acceptance includes an ad- mission that that'adtmirable statute is defective. Now comes the clan- gor of opposing opinion;. Now the door'has been fairly opened to the pet oratory of tiie many incapables-tneh with one solitary ideia \   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.       37 -and not one drop of spirituous liquor, in its composition! Fifty times iterated temperance exhortations are reiterated. Sane looking men all at once torn fiendsin appearance. The passions are engaged, and the judgment has departed. Heaven save a virtuous people from the effects of this disorder! ." Oh! moral Quixotism, thou art indeed disgusting!" was the observation Quiz made in his own mind, when, an hour after adjournment, he discovered two of the members he knew personally, who,had voted against the interference with the principle of the. Maine Law, tossing off their bumpers of brandy in a fashionable drinking saloon, in the city! It is truly the case, that, , what some members of the legislature impose as law on others, they disregard, in practice, themselves. Some of the greatest advocates of a prohibitory law in the legislature; are the meanest tipplers, we: know-solitary drinkers--forsaken even by the excuse of sociabilityo, Fact!           -                 , "I have no doubt, now," said Quiz,!' but that there are good men in the legislature, who desire to do all for the best.,and act sober-mindedly in general; but when this Maine Law morality comes over them, it carries them away from their'sane'intentions. I once knew a school-'; master who imagined he had a glass nose. On every subject which came up, he was capable of giving a sound opinion. He laughed the, loudest of any at ludicrous features of monomania; but whenever mention was made of the fleshy consistency of his nasal organ, he rebelled against his own sense, and against that of every other per- son who expressed doubts in the particular of his brittle proboscis. The Maine Law is the glass nose of-the moral monomaniac, and all the world could not make him believe anything else, the while he is as wise aslother men on every other point of judgment." Quiz was about right; and if he bad added a few more glass members to the political, moral, and social construction of prominent men, he would have been no farther from the truth. A brief visit to the Senate was made by Quiz, during an uninter- esting portion of the proceedings of the House, He found that au- gust upper branch in solemn conclave, and looking, generally, to be a convention of slow-thinking, deliberately-acting men. The Presi- dent looked dignifed, but -easy; the Senators easy and dignified; and the reporters both, with a sad admixture.'of something: else, which was neither. It is to be'presumed that the squad belong to some of those serious societies which young men have a license to attend, and also take the liberty to cultivate oysters, and something 8       ,.    38      SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS, ETC. not so legitimate, before they insert their night-keys. Very sedate, these excellent individuals look-extremely so; but their gravity is not stiff; oh, no! How could it well be anything of the sort? Hath not their countenances the profit of the reflection of that serene good- nature, and amplitude of heart, which rests on the nobly-elevated brow of the respected Clerk of the Senate. Talk of a Pickwick, a Cheery- ble, any reality or creation that has the bump of benevolence as large as a pumpkin! They are caricatures of the virtue, compared with the Clerk. May the sun ever shine on his soul; but in passing through any part of his countenance, [in the opinion of Quiz] it will run risk of being befogged considerably. "That gentleman," said Quiz's friend, "is Hon. Moses Kimball, senator from Suffolk. He is a man with a large heart. If a practical devotion to all which can consistently promote political, social, and moral progress can recommend a man to popular favor, no individual in the legislature has a better claim to .it than MosEs KIMBALL. Buthis integrity of mind has earned him a few political enemies, who hang on his skirts at all times, and ineffectually attempt to pull him down from those elevations on which the better sense and better feeling of the many have determined to raise him. He has never prostituted his soul and conscience to conciliate that coveted terror of demagogues, "the foreign vote." Neither has he bent from the consistency of moral suasion against the evils of intemperance, in order to secure the suffrages of men who repudiate moral effort. In both instances he has dared to have a mind and a will of his own, and both parties (independently of political affinity otherwise) have moved heaven and earth to defeat him. But they have only kept him "behind his ticket," at full liberty of conscience to act as an honest, untrammeled politician. No man sits in the senate who occupies a more independent position in the face of his duty, than Mr. Kimball; no one has more courage to perform that duty, unbiassed, than he. His previous public conduct is the best security for the future, and his constituents were thoroughly satisfied on this point when they elected him.'" Had time permitted, Quiz might have said more concerning men and manners in the Senate; but his friend, the Doctor, having sanded his last page, put his report in his pocket, enveloped himself in that eternal grey plaid, and the Senate having adjourned, our hiro made tracks for   's, where we will aliow them to have it hot or cold, as their taste may direct them.   CHA PTER V. 'Change. Brokers. Their Operations. Visit to the Billiard Rooms. Well Known Characters. Props. Popular Saloons. Quiz's reflections on leaving the State House, were like a certain old dame's charities-nothing to nobody. Proceeding down State street at noon, he observed a large number of men congregated near the Old State House, and thinking that something of a very extraordinary nature had occurred, hastened to the spot. He observed the stars and stripes, and also the cross of St. George, floating from the cupola of the building, and concluded that this demonstration was in' honor of the arrival of some distinguished foreigner; but on inquiry,' he found that it was a scene of common occurrence. It was 'Change hour, and the little flags which he noticed were only signals to denote that the royal mail steamship Niagara was below, and was coming up the harbor, Any stranger to the ways and business of the city, should he take. a walk down State street on a file day, during 'Change hours, would be inclined to think that the dense, respectably-clad, portly- looking crowds there and then assembled, were all the very pillars of our metropolitan prosperity-all solid men of Boston-all specimens of those high-minded, honest, honorable men, who have built up for this three-hilled city a golden, enviable, imperishable name and fame. Such an observer would not be wrong in taking such a view of many of those he saw; but he would be widely erring if he included the majority in so favorable a consideration; for about him, thick as ticks in the wool of a lazy sheep, there would be a herd of curb, stone brokers, of the most despicable and dangerous description; Shylocks, and men worse than Shylocks-blood-suckers, who have not. even Shylock's motive and excuse, revenge for wrong, to palliate the criminality of their heartless, dishonest, swindling intrigues, by aid of which, in foul conspiracies, they take advantage of the transient pecuniary distresses of those who must borrow money on security,: or sacrifice themselves, and families, and property.- The heart of such, a stranger would be thrilled with horror and indignation, could he   40        SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; hear the piteous tales of wrongs committed by such men as we have described, and who haunt the walks, and infect the air of State street daily, "seeking whom they may devour"-what honest unfortunate, or what simple fool they may throw the webs of their villanons "ma- chinations around, hopelessly involve, and gradually ruin. The cunning of these harpy brokers is quite as great as their soul- less, remorseless avarice. Experience has sharpened their original shrewdness. They "know the ropes," and banded together, help each other along in the systematic destruction of such as are misera- ble enough to fall into their clutches. Not a curb-stone broker of their stamp, but has his regularly. employed legal adviser to help him over the shoals of. some tortuous speculation-perhaps become partner in the iniquity-or to steer his bark when he gets into one of those perilous seas in which the winds and waves threaten to waft the voyager to the State Prison-that frowning lee shore whereon such rogues, sornetirnes, but too seldom, split-a just consequence of their rascality. Oh! State street! State street! when they who so often oppress your bricks and stones with the weight of their bad bodies, " when they shall meet at compt," how will their leprosied souls shrink back appalled to hear the list of sins against' humanity, already and hereafter, to be record- ed and laid at their door. The pawn-brokers are a class separate and distinct from all others. It requires but a five dollar bill to enter this business, and by a shrewd investment of this amount of capital, and by constant attention to "business," many an unscrupulous fellow manages to live, and to amass wealth. A hostler, a footman, or in fine, any aspiring menial may enter the business, and nine times in ten will succeed. - They obtain rent for a trifle, line their window shelf with black velvet, strew worthless bank bills and doubtful coin about, and their trap is laid for the verdant, or those whose necessities compel them to resort to some expedient to obtain ready money. The pawn-broker, marking his customer, and with the fear of the Revised Statutes only before his eyes, filches hiin according to the circumstances of the case. So far from alleviating distress, or relieving one from embarrassment, transactions with this class, as a general thing, plunge one deeper in the gulf of despair. Not only are the verdant, and the sons and daughters of poverty, robbed, and utterly fleeced by this class of-pawn-brokers, but inducements, and often of the most alluring description, are held out to thieves, burglars, and   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.     '  41 highwaymen; they share their plunder with them, and too often escape the punishment that justice would inflict. "What awful wickedness!" ejaculated Quiz, with a sigh, as he returned to his hotel. He was thinking seriously of repacking his valise, and leaving town the next morning, when Lacy entered the room. "Ah, Quiz, so you are alone. Homesick, I suppose?" "Not a bit of it! What's up for this evening?" O0, there are a plenty of lions to see, but I am in a quandary where to go to show you the greatest of those you have not yet seen. Are you acquainted with billiards?" "Billiards! who is he?" "Another laugh at your expense, Mr. Quiz. I mean the game of billiards." "I can't say that I am. I have played all fours, whistle jack, old maid, Kentucky loo, checkers, and dominoes, but billiards ain't up in our way as yet." "Well, billiards is an excellent amusement, and is much more in vogue here, than any of the games' you have mentioned. Suppose we walk down to K-'s, there we will see the largest billiard-room in New England, quite a crowd of the boys, ard some fine playing." "How far is it to the billiards?" ' Only a short distance. Yonder where the large transparency is seen." A few steps brought them to the billiard-hall, which, as usual, was crowded. The majority-were young men, between the twenties and twenty-fives; and some were in their teens, but they were merely lookeis-on. At one table, a dark-haired, bronzed-faced gen- tleman was playing against a tall, wrinkled-faced personage, whose gray hairs intimated that he commenced life with the beginning of the present century, if not a year or two earlier. The, seats facing this table' were crowded, and the couple were obliged to stand and witness the playing, which seemed to be the best in the hall. "Nw, Caleb, if you wish to see a good game of billiards look sharp - there are two crack players." Which is the better player of the two " "That is more than I can say, I never saw them matched before." The game progressed. Both players had good runs, and the result seemed doubtful. Let's zee, I make forty-onQ dat time, eh "? '   Z4        SIX DAYS IN TnE METROPOLIS; "Forty-one-they are all up," was the. response of his opponent as he placed his ball on the table and commenced playing. He made a count of some twelve less than his opponent, exclaiming, ' D --n the luck; I've wasted the prettiest count I've yet had a chance to make.          ' "Zo much the better for me. Ha! ha! ha! I forgive you," exclaimed the other, laughing. He then re-commenced playing. He made two beautiful shots, counting, which he said were "scratches," and then pocketed himself. "Miserere! I pocket myself." "What does he mean by ' scratches' and ' pocketing' himself?" inquired our friend. "By ' scratches' he means making counts that he did not expect when he played--accidental counts. By pocketing himself, he alludes to the ball which he plays getting into the pocket." "Take care, Frenchy - give an old fellow some show," were the first words they heard after Quiz had received such information as his companion could give concerning the game, which was almost concluded. "Only six-den I go out," exclaimed Frenchy, as he made a play. . "Not this time - you may in the next game," rejoined hiS oppo- nent, who handled his cue with a grace that bespoke the familiarity of an old acquaintance. He made three or four good shots and the game was his. The couple strolled around the hall, stopping at each of the other eleven tables. Some of them were occupied by passably good players, and others were in use by persons who knew little or nothing of the .game-who were continually chalking their cues, finding fault with their ill luck, and squinting at the table to see Ohether it were on a level or not. "I can't play a bit to-night, I never seed such luck." "Nor I neither," rejoined his opponent. "I hav'nt counted ten these twenty minutes." "( You had better give up the table, and let some one have it who can play," said a friend of the party, who was sitting on the sofa facing them. "We will, as soon as the game is out," replied one of the players. "That will be sqme time, -if you don't- have better luck than 'you have seen yet. Neither of you count anything but the .misses, remarked the first speaker, .   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN..   .   43 "That's none of your business-you don't pay for the game," said the player. "I know I don't -but the proprietor pays for his gas, and if he 'had many such customers as you are he would fail in a month. You've been playing more than three quarters of an hour, and neither of you have turned fifty yet." The last speaker was sensible, if he wasrough spoken. Amateurs should practice during the day time, then they can do soi to more advantage than in the evening, as the halls are not so crowded, and, consequently, the tables are in less dbmand. It was proposed to cross over to a room on the opposite side of the street. Quiz noticed a man with jet black whiskers and imperial; a keen, piercing eye, and fair complexion, standing in front of the bar, and asked who he was. "That's the proprietor of this place," replied Montgomery, as they approached him. "( He is coining money here; owns the most beau- tiful specimen of horse flesh in this city; is an officer In our crack corps of cavalry, and a good fellow generally." Quiz was satisfied with the information, and they left the hall. On entering a billiard room on the opposite side of the street they found three tables, but only 'ne of them was occupied. At this table were four gentlemen playing a match game. "Who is that stout person, with rosy. cheeks, who looks so jolly and good natured?" asked our friend. "That is Geo. B--.w, one of the best fellows in the world. He is ' hale fellow, well met,' wherever you find him. In the senate, the court room, on the road, at a dinner, dance, or billiards, he is up to the occasion. *"He is a'great favorite with all who have the pleasure of his acquaintance." "Who is that fellow with sandy whiskers and heavy watch chain?" "O, that is one of the attaches of the room." "Is that all? I thought he was some distinguished individual." Remarking to Quiz that appearances, are sometimes deceptive, they left the hall. They again crossed the. street, and entered a room nearly opposite the one they had just left. It was well filled with players, but our friend did not like the inquisitive glances towards him by some of the persons in the room, and they lefty.' Their next visit was to a roopm .in^ a street through which a large number of omnibuses are continuavlly running. They seated them- selves on the sofa to watch the players at one of the tables, and no-.   "       SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; ticed that numbers of gents were continually passing them, entering and leaving a room at the farther end of the hall.' ;' What's in there, a private bar?" asked Quiz. "I don't know, I am sure; let's go and see." They accordingly rose and entered the room. The first thing they noticed was a long table covered with green baize, which was surrounded by some dozen or more persons. "Who will set me that bill?" queried one of the party. "I'll go two and a half" replied another. "I'm good for the other half," said one on the opposite side of the table. The first speaker then threw four small shells on the table, and exclaiming "It's a good nick," picked up his portion of, the money and tried another experiment in conchology which was equally successful. When the couple left'the room, Quiz asked if "shaking them shells " was not " right down gambling." "Of course it is," replied his companion, "they are shaking props." "I thought Marshal Tukey once arrested all the prop shakers. I read it in the papers." "Tukey did arrest large crowds of the shakers on two or three occasions, but did not succeed in exterminating the evil. But Tqkey is not marshal no w, and the 'sports' are not so careful as when he was in office. There are any number of these prop iooms in the city that are known to the public, and must be to the police, but we never hear anything said in relation to them. Right across there is a room constantly thronged by persons of all classes, and you can almost hear them shaking the bones at the police office, yet they are not disturbed. Down in Po-1-nd street there is one of these estab- lishments where the shakers are so bold and feel so secure that. they don't even curtain their windows, and persons walking on the opposite side of the street can almost point out the winner and loser bry the gestures they make." ," But this ain't known to the police, is it" " "I am sure I can't say, but it is known to the people; and in order to learn whether it was so or not, I have looked to satisfy myself." By this time they had entered another billiard room, which they also found crowded. At one of the tables they saw a gentleman who seemed to be lame, which fact Quiz first noticed and inquired who he was.   *- ,  OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN,       45 "That is L--   H--s, reputed the best player in this city. He has played against George Ryder, next to Phalon, the best billiard player-in the United States." "Where does Phalon belong?" "New York; he is keeper of a billiard room on Broadway. Some time ago he challenged any man, in the world to play with him, but up to the present time the challenge has never been accepted." The guide pointed out a number of persons, among whom were sev- eral typos, who were enjoying a relaxation from their labors, and amus- ing themselves with the game. Proceeding from this room, they direct- ed their steps to the vicinity of the post office. Climbing a rickety staircase they reached a room where there were two tables, and there they were greetefd with a kindly welcome by the proprietor. The tables being occupied they remained but a few moments. Quiz was pleased withithe good-looking old fellow. . Years ago Tim was the beau of the city-wore fine clothes, drove blooded horses, and was universally conceded to be the best-dressed and best-looking specimen of mlascu- line humanity in New England. He is getting old now, and contents himself in catering to the pleasures of his friends--and few men in the city have more of them than Tim. Billiards have entirely taken the place of ten pins, as a matter of amusement, and bowling-alleys are now only resorted to by boys, and by dyspeptics who desire violent exercise. The age grows lazy and luxurious. Within a year or two, among all the methods for killing off the common enemy, time, none has been more popular than billiards, a game which is comparatively new in this city, but in which, at the present time, a great deal of money is invested. Look in at the Tregothic Hall, Boylston. street, or at Kibbe's, or Boyls- ton Hall, or Frank Thompson's, or Harris's, on any evening, and you will find the halls busy with players and musical with fine shots. The tables of Corthell are the most popular in this city. He is the Bassford of Boston. The small hours of morning admonished our friends that time had flown rapidly by, and pleased with the evening's entertainment, they returned to their lodgings. 65  '    CHAPT-ER YI. THRD DAY. Smoking in the Streets. The Police Office, The Chief and Oicers. News-Boys and Candy Girls. Saloons and their Patrons. Charity Schools. City, Thieves. Quiz left the Revere at an early hour the next morning, and was proceeding down Court street, smoking a cigar, and thinking of the manner. in which he should pass the day, when he was suddenly ac- costed by a man who wore a star upon his breast. "My friend," said the "star," politely, yet with a degree of firm- ness, " you must throw away your cigar." "Perhaps you think I'm somewhat verdant, sir, but you are quite mistaken. Do you suppose I buy cigars to throw away?" replied Quiz, indignantly. "But you must not smoke in the street, it is not allowed." "Why, you talk as if you owned this road. If smoking is offen- sive to you, it would be advisable for you to move on; or if you persist in your insults I'll speak to a police officer."  The "star" laughed and assured him that he was addressing a policeman. "If you are, where is your badge?" "Here," replied the officer. "You are a stranger in the city, I per- ceive. We have a city ordinance against smoking in the street." "O, ah, beg your pardon, Mr. Officer. Have you an ordinance against chewing tobacco?" honestly asked Quiz. On being assured that there was not, he threw away his cigar and took a generous quid of tobacco and passed on. He had proceeded but a few rods when he met a friend who proposed a short walk, and together they went to the police office. On entering, they were politely shown into the chief's room by Policeman Holmes. Quiz had pictured in his mind, as a chief, a man of gigantic proportions, stern and swarthy counte- nance, black whiskers and heavy moustache-a man of keen, black eyes, of reserved manners, and of commanding appearance; he was,   PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.         47 therefore, somewhat disappointed on being introduced to one who, for all the world, looked- like other folks. Mr. Nurse is about forty-fite, rather stout, of benignant counte- nance, very good looking, and we might venture to say, that ten or fifteen years ago he was a remarkably fine-looking fellow. His hair is now intermingled with gray, and he wears glasses. He is always in excellent temper, and can tell a good story, and enjoy a good joke, as well as any one. There is a vein of humor about him which is peculiarly agreeable, but which never in- the least detracts from the dignity of his post. He is always prompt and efficient in business, and is a man who has seen much of the world. Always humane, he never allows an opportunity of doing good to pass unimproved. Many a dime has he slipped from his pocket into the hand of some child of poverty, and many a kind word has he spoken to the unfor- tunate. The admonition and advice which he has given the erring will not be forgotten by them, even though they persist in their trans- gressions ; the words of encouragement and hope which he has uttered have cheered many a desponding heart; perhaps he has prevented many crimes by words " fitly spoken." He is the man for his post. A man, in every sense--kind, humane, courteous, and of unswerving principles - as unbending as iron in the performance of his duty, coveting. the favor of none, and seeking only the approval of his own ( conscience. Such a man is Gilbert Nurse, the chief of police. The deputy chief is shrewd, intelligent, and prompt. Of course he has his enemies, for "No rogue who e'er felt the halter draw Had a good opinion of the law," or those who enforce it. Mr. Eaton is a young man,.but sustains a high position; The' policemen generally are a noble class of men, prompt and efficient; and it is a question whether the members of any organized police-force in the Union are superior, in any respect, to those at present in the police departmentin Boston. After a brief chat with Mr. Nurse they entered the main office, a large room occupied by several officers, and the place ini which, according to regulations, the department assembles two or three times daily, when such information and instructions, as may be necessary, are givenm the men answering to their names at roll-call, and proceeding to the sections assigned them. If a theft or burglary is perpetrated, or any other crime committed, in any part of the' city, it is not long   48        SIX DAYS iN THE METROPOLIS;. before the details of the offence are known to every member of the department; and he is, indeed, a lucky fellow who eludes the vigilant eye or escapes from the grasp of one of the officers. Many of the old offenders, on learning that warrants are out for their arrest, follow- ing the example of the coon that observed the ever-sure rifle of Davy Crockett raised against him, come down to the police office and set- tle their cases as early and as easily as possible. In one part of the large office there are a number of trunks of all sorts and sizes, ladies' dressesd seedy caps, boxes, buffalo robes, chairs, coats, copper, carpet-bags, chains, sleds and sledge-hammers, and in fact everything which may be lost from depots or coaches, or stolen by thieves. In the closet or bureau which extends nearly across one side of the room are numberless articles which havelbeen stolen and recovered; implements of all sorts taken from burglars and shop-breakers. There are jimmies, jack-screws, saws, skeleton keys, and matches for blowing open locks; weapons of various kinds- knives, guns, pistols, dirks, slung shot, billets, &c. These are col- lected' together in lots and properly labelled, so that any one collection may be selected from the rest in a moment. The officers pointed out weapons which were taken from some of the most desperate villains now in State Prison, which were wrested from them at the imminent peril to life or limb. Quiz noticed the infinite number of saloons of all kinds in every street through which he passed, and wondered that so many could manage to do a paying business, but his companion, who was better "posted up," informed him that the proprietors of nearly all of them 'not only managed to live, but acquired wealth and competence in the business. There are some saloons in this city the proprietors of which count their receipts by hundreds of dollars daily. There's Peter Brigham, at Concert Hall, one of the best fellows in the city, a man of un bounded liberality, who has acquired a fortune in the business. .His saloon is one of the most popular in the city. There is Mose Ben- nett, a capital fellow and an odd gen'ius, who is constantly " shelling out," and is driving a fine business; Baker's establishment is also well patronized. But there are saloons in this city little better than assignation houses-places where the depraved of both sexes meet, and which are more dangerous to the public morals than any other establishments, the business of which is recognized as legitimate and lawful.   .i                      OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.       49 I The newsboys and venders of all sorts of little knick-knacks were an interesting class to our hero, and Quiz was on the point of asking if these little jokers did not come into the world crying "Heralds," ' candy," tooth-picks," or "pea-nuts." PHe saw urchins little larger than twisted doughnuts, running about the streets in jacket. and trowsers, intent on turning a penny. These Lilliputians, he observed, were for the greater part, dirty, ragged, seedy-looking pocket-editions of humanity. They run about like ants upon a mole hill, crying their wares, and are always wide awake for a bargain. They are models of industry and enterprise, and often exhibit a degree of shrewdness, cunning, and ingenuity, that would make the fortunes of many of our shop-keepers. These little fellows are gen- erally, and probably without exception, vulgar and profane; many of them are the most depraved, thievish, unruly, and disorderly wretches in the world. Some of them, at the age of twelve, have graduated in most degrees of crime. The quantity of rum and tobacco which some of these little fellows consume annually, is really astonishing; and I am not positive that avaricious dealers in these articles would not loudly protest against any reform in their habits in this respect, and with good reason-the rform might cause numerous failures. The boys pick up stumps of cigars from spittoons in bar-rooms, and smoke them with delight; and when they obtain a three cent cigar their happiness is complete. Not Omar Pacha, or any of his coun- trymen, ever enjoyed the fumes of their pipes more than do these little urchins. They eat one, two, or three times a day, just as for- tune favors them with a meal, and drink bad rum, which they obtain at a penny a glass at the lowest groggeries in the city. Some of them sleep at home, many ofi them on the stoops of doors, and others in the watch houses.  The vender of small wares, after performing his day's work-and this he does, rain or shine, mild or freezing weather-a period of toil which is made up in receiving rebuffs, curses, coppers, kicks, abuse, and crumbs of charity-ceases from his labor at the lighting of the street lamps, or soon after, having sold the: balance of his stock in trade at cost, and seeks employment in setting up tenr pins, running errands, "minding" horses, or whatever else his busy hands find to do, and having effected an engagement he proceeds with alacrity and cheerfulness to earn his sixpence; failing to get a job he busies him- self in pilfering small articles, for which he finds a ready sale. At ten or eleven o'clock the little fellow "knocks off" from his   50        'SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; work and goes to the theatre, on a check of some obliging person, to form and express an opinion-of the last new play. He gains access to the third tier, and after the performance, creeps unwillingly home to bed, from which he springs before sunrise.     i The newsboys are as useful as any class in the community, and we could much better spare the well-dressed drones who laugh at them, than these little dealers. Their importance would be realized by several of our enterprising penny papers should they " strike " and refuse to pursue their vocation-the public would miss them sadly, and we dare say the offending party would gladly compromise the difficulty to avoid the indignation of their ragged patrons. They are philosophers and adepts in the history of the old world as-well as this. The newsboy watches the arrival of the steamer, and bets on the movements of the Czar, the Sultan, and the four powers ; in fine, with all his vices and his rags, the newsboy and vender of small wares, is 1' something" for which society can find no substitute- a being as essential to our comfort as the cook, barber, or tailor.- The moral education of these little fellows is wholly neglected, and it is not strange, that, as they grow up in ignorance and vice,'they should cause business for our criminal courts and cost for the city and State. It must not be supposed that the little girls are idle - far from it. You will see them in every nook and corner of the city, disposing of their candy, fruit, nuts, or other marketable wares. They are coarse and vulgar, and too often, if it were not for their dresses, they would be mistaken for boys, so rude and vulgar do they become. They learn their first lessons in vice in the work shops, stores, and offices, whither they go to dispose of their stock. Follow one of these girls from the tnoment she first issues from her miserable home and enters upon a life of traffic: the modesty which every child possesses is soon worn off by the coarse language of many of her patrons ; her sense of propriety is lost, and she is soon borne forward on the tide of destruction and death. How much crime, suffering, sin, disease, and untimely death might be spared would some of our public bene- factors give but a tithe of their fortunes, or a share of their donatlons, to found charity schools, charity homes, where the children of poverty and destitution might find a shelter, employment, and derive lessons of morality and virtue. Here is a field for labor, forbidding as it may appear, which may be tillei to yield a golden harvest. Here is a new channel,for charity which seems to have been quite overlooked   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.        61 by our generous benefactors whose munificence has been applied, and to good purpose, for objects, the claims of" which dwindle into insig- nificance by comparison with this. Leaving the City Hall, Quiz met Montgomery, who expressed his pleasure at the meeting, and proposed a passing call at Parker's. His appetite being somewhat sharpened by the morning wall;, Quiz accepted the invitation. While sipping their coffee he reminded his companion of his promise, on a. previous occasion, to speak of city thieves. He had visited the police office, and now was a favorable opportunity. Montgomery disclaimed any personal acquaintance with any of that numerous body of individuals known to the police and in the courts, as city thieves, but wishing to impress Quiz with a deep conviction of his morality and excellence of character; he gave our hero a brief sketch of this class of persons, and could his observations be impressed on their attention it is probable they would eventuate in improvement, in their moral, - not bodily - elevation. "There was a time," said he, "when crime was happily so scarce in Boston that rogues of any sort could not well be spoken of under the head of a class. Now, however, times are altered. Roguery of every dye does a large business, employs countless hands, and knaves may not only be properly ranged in classes, but each class is 'numerous enough to admit of divisions and subdivisions. I speak of our city thieves simply under two grand heads -' Genteel' and' Ruffianly.' I hardly know which of the two -is the most dangerous. "The tasteful dress, reserved deportment, and altogether uniexcep- tionable appearance of the genteel thief, are well calculated to put the community off their guard, and facilitate the operations of the very respectable looking pilferer, panel thief, and burglar. His harness is comely-so is that of the tiger. The polar bear looks as harmless as a- sheep, in his snowy coat i but his embrace is said to be more ar- dent than affectionate. On the other 'hand, the appearance of the ruffian thief does not belie his business.  He has a lurking, lower- ing, glassy scowl; a skulking walk; a dark reddish hue of face, pro- ceeding from the horrible liquorhe habitually swills down. His dress has a slovenly, reckless, second-handed look, and he generally goes with one hand in his pocket, watching for an opportunity to put the other in somebody else's.     ,             .  "By day, the genteel thief, when at leisure, may be usually found in the billiard room, trim as a flower garden, pocketing his balls with a princely nonchalance; or you may find him in the anteroom  of \J   82        six DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; some liquor saloon, engaged in the edifying games of cards, dice, or dominoes; if not there, be sure he is under the hands of the fashion- able tonsor, or in some locality needless to specify. By day, when the ruffianly thief is weary of business,: he commonly congregates with those of his class in the oldest, most tortuous, and filthy quarters of the city; his empire proper being, of course, those regions of the North, which have Ann street and the Black Sea for their focus. "It is a question which makes the most money, the genteel or the ruffianly rogue. We can't always tell. Good clothes are often ac- companied by empty pockets; then again they are not. The same may be said of old and vile habiliments. There must necessarily be so many sudden vicissitudes in the " eccentric" calling of the profes- sional thief, that it is impossible to estimate the average amount of profit per week, or-per annum. Then again, a great deal'depends upon smartness and a great deal upon luck. Fines, lawyer's fees, and hush-money, are important items in the thieving trade. As I said before, 'we can't always tell. I don't kIQuiz, but in this account I should have included lawyers, roke crack preachers." At an opposite table sat a lawyer of some note, with a friend, in the laudable exercise of masticating a generous beef-steak. Quiz observed them, and asked who they were.  "The one with black hair, and of very stout proportions, is. Mr. H--  , a member of the-Suffolk bar. He is a queer fellow. His love of money or notoriety, or some other motive, leads him into frequent indiscretions, which may at some future time involve him in-trouble, although he is a smart lawyer." "I supposed, to be a member of the Suffolk bar, one must not only be a good lawyer, but a good fellow in all respects."  "Ra ther verdant, Quiz. The faet-is, the majority of the members of the legal profession in Boston are honorable, high-minded men, who honor the profession not only by their legal attainments but by. their excellent character. Yet, Quiz, there are .xceptions, and I don't know as I should exaggerate in the least, or indicate any unfa- vorable or groundless prejudice, if I should say that several promi- nent and shining lights in the profession here are quite as bad as the majority of those whom they are so frequently called upon to defend, I tell you, Quiz, there are few men who devote themselves exclu- sively or mainly to criminal business in our lower courts, who do not become more or less like their clients. I knew a lawyer, a man of superior abilities, excellent education, a man who in any other kind   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.       53 of business might have made his fortune, who after a successful prac. tice of a few short years became so erigled and indentified with Criminals that his personal safety depended upon his leaving Boston, and burying himself in a distant part of the country; he availed himself of the condition, and not many months since disappeared, the public knew not whither." "There are lawyers, at this present moment, in this city, who are regarded with suspicion for similar reasons. There are young limbs of the law who are ruining themselves, tieir souls, and their future worldly prospects, by this short-sighted course." "' But surely the criminal must be defended." "That is very true, but need the counsel of such persons take gold watches, which'the'" inow tt olen, in payment for services rendered - need the counsel ake it a condition, on-undertaking a case, to share the plunder 4rl is guilty client has purloined, in case his plea is successful, and the miscreant is acquitted? Need he pledge his services, in advance, to professed gamblers, burglars, and other rogues, and know by instinct or some underground telegraph, when these ruffians get into trouble? Rather guess not. No, these are not qualities which denote good lawyers, even though they should be members of the Suffolk bar. That gentleman," he con- tinued, throwing a glance in the direction of the opposite table, " is a member of the bar, practices at the bar, and would find it difficult to reconcile his conduct in these particulars with propriety and common honesty. Look, he is taking coffee, with a fellow who has a case to come on soon." "Pray, is he one of the slippery class of individuals--so fine a looking fellow?" "Quiz, that fellow is Doctor Bolus, alias Doctor Faith, alias Doctor Charity, alias Doctor Goodwill, just according to the locality of his offices. Why, that fellow graduated a stone-cutter in the State Pri- son in Charlestown. . Bless your simple heart, he knows nothing about medicine. He understands leeching and bleeding in the most approved method, and boasts of taking a hundred dollars a day from flats from the country who have occasion to employ medical advisers. He was a thief before he went to the State Prison, and having lost none ofhis rascality, but acquired more caution, he takes this method to filch the public. His advertisements represent that he has just returned from Paris, where he was consulting physician in the hos- pital, and that he is a Fellow of some hitherto unheard-of medical 7   "       SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS, ETC. society in London or Rome. He is not the only one --there are quack doctors in every street, and nearly all are as unprincipled as himself. Men who have little moral principle, little calibre,i and still less inclination, to pursue any honest calling that may require effort, either physical or intellectual, turn to medicine as a last re- source, and generally succeed in acquiring money. These ignorant pretenders would have the public believe that they had found the philosopher's stone, and that in their sanctums were the springs in which the afflicted have only to corme and bathe and be restored to 'health. They are men who have started and failed in other pursuits,- broken down "Jacks of all trades," and good at none. Sometimes, but -too seldom, their physical energies are called into operation under the vigilant eye of keepers appointed by the State. There may be conscientious quacks, but I have never seen one." Quiz left the saloon with something like afeeling of homesickness which was not in the least favorably influenced by the recollection of the past few days. He came to the conclusion, for the hundredth time, that Boston people were " awful wicked," and that many of them, collectively and severally, were sponges, leeches, knaves, and men of moral principles in homoepathic doses.   CHAPTE R VII. AN EVENING AMONG THE THEATRICAL TEMPLES. Mr. Quiz takes a New Guide by the Hand.   National Theatre. Old Eagle.   Newsboy's Compliment to Kirby.  Old Tremont. Re- hearsal Sketch.  Boston Museum.  Professional Cliques. Quiz Trying to "Come In." Howard Atheneum; as Usual, in a-Pickle. High Aims and Low Results.   That "Why?" The Real Mean- ing of "Salary no Object." A Crust and a Bone for the Critics. "Pray, thee, let it serve for table talk; Then, howsoe'er thou speak'st 'mong other things, I shall digest it."--Shakespeare. "It would be difficult to determine whether the age is growing better or worse; for I think our plays are growing like sermons, and our sermons like plays."- Mrs. Barbauld. "Art is called art, because it is not nature."--Goethe. "We must speak to the eyes, if we wish to affect the mind. * ' *' No happiness is greater than in endeavoring to make November smile like May."- Horace Walpole. "' The night Shows stars and women in a better light."-Byron. The many variegated scenes Mr. Caleb Quiz had now gone through, suggested the   idea of visiting and tracing -the mimic scene "  on the stage. At the hotel where he generally stayed, he had formed an acquaintance with one of those half-and-half Europeans or Americans, (as the case may be,) who have been "all around the lot" in the way of sight-seeing, and thus become  (if they have any praiseworthy degree of natural wit,) such very desirable and loqua- cious companions; while describing the fruits of their travelled experience. A   comical genius of this genus had frequently "hob-nobbed" his wine-glass toward Mr.   Quiz, and thus they became acquainted to the nodding degree.  The actual introduction was effected by a   gentleman connected: with: one of the , Bbston ',dfilires." Quiz's new  mentor :(n being  informed of 'the" deifed object,)   "       SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; at once took wing over the foot-lights, besides taking a few portraits "in front," and his style of talk seemed almost incomprehensible, R  until poor Quiz " studied it out." Quiz said he had heard his folks tell about going to the Museum, but a real theatre must be a "dreadful" place. The answer he got was "Pooh, pooh!" Well, here we are at the time-honored "National." Rehearsal going on. "What solemn gentlemen, and what serious ladies!" Quiz exclaims. ," My dear sir, it is the nature of performers' busi- ness. The 'lengths', of dialogue (frequently producing a similar lengthening of the countenance) must not only be committed to memory, but every crossing and position in the stage business must be remembered.  Abstraction to the actor is like anticipation to the lover, it is excusable. The charitable observer will tell you so. See that 'second heavy man,' imploring the stage-manager to have some scenes 'cut down' to-night. There is a scene painter trying to get employment, who says that he 'got up' an Alpine act-drop once, containing so many snow-drifts, that on being exhibited at New York, instead of New Orleans, everybody who looked at it went home with a bad cold. "Yonder is a chap who says that, he has lately manufactured a new style of. stage thunder, and that the very first time of trial it shook out so ' kinder nat'ral' that the audience had to go home in a 'gin-you-wine' thunder storm. The lessee aid the stage-manager, as they sit by the prompter's table, take all this sort of talk very coolly-they are used to the proximity of gas-bags. . By the way, it would be difficult to find two better fellows than W. M. Fleming!and H. C. Jordan. This is not a mere passing sketch, and therefore ' the present company is always excepted,' but we cannot altogether refrain from mentioning such parties as bring pleasurable associations with their names, and whose talents have already received the stamp of honorable approbation from a generous and enlightened community. "In theatrical business, the balance between hilarity and solemnity is so nice and fluctuating that all these very sober-looking and not-yet-lunched people seem to shake their heads as if they wore the ' bells in Folly's cap,' whenever they have occasion to speak. It is only while silent that they have this very solemn look. One calls the Archbishop of Canterbury a I son of a gun.', The first tragedian rattles off an air from the latest opera, executed with his fingers upon the skull of poor Yorick,' and Juliet begs the property-man to keep his dagger blunt for her, sake. The low comedian tells the Virgins   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.        67 of the Sun that they may as well keep their robes tucked up until regular performance; but they reply that only the Millerites tuck up their shrouds. A couple of conceited new candidates are trying the compass of their voices to suit the scope of the house, and we are reminded of- ' Had dogs howled thus, they would have hanged them!' "At the 'coming on of night,' a Hogarthian pencil only could depict the stage during performance hours. This superb and well- managed theatre has gradually arisen from the original shell of the little (Warren,' and is the result of the tact of Fenno, the iron-willed perseverance of Pelby, the defeat of Wyzeman Marshall's ' Eagle,' and the first introduction (in America,) of melo-drama, with th advent of Joseph Hudson Kirby. ' Jack, I'm agoin' to hev a snooze; but vake me hup. vhen Kirby dies.' Since the closing of the ' Old Tremont,' however, no theatre in the United States pays more regard to the legitimate than the National of Boston, and may success ever flourish in the folds of its flag! "The ' Eagle' here mentioned must not be confounded with its modern' and unlucky namesake in Sudbury street. Marshall's 'Eagle' stood on the corner of Haverhill and Thatcher streets. All sorts of blood-and-thunder business were produced, and the prices put at half those of the National. Scalping, tomahawking, stabbing, and throat- cutting generally, were carried on, although the dead were not always able to carry themselves off.. The opposition was strong. Some of the North End boys went one night and scalped the old shell by tak- ing off its entire roof! This was a settler; and Bill Pelby, with his National, remained master of the field." "I could, listen to you for a year, but I want to know about the others; the one they call the Museum, for instance," says Quiz. "Let us go, then. No matter if brother Moses Kimball is putting the commonwealth to rights up at the State House. We shall prob- ably fiad W. H. Smith, the worthy manager, and we know him for a perfect actor and a thorough gentleman. If he is absent, we cany have a chat with brother Angier, the polite, patient, and always- pleasing treasurer. And then what a gloriously fine fellow J. P. Price, Ithe prompter, is! Ah, here they are. ' Bucks have at ye all!'"    , "The Boston Museum is conducted on very different principles from nearly every other theatre where English is spoken. JIt is true, Man-   5 8       SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; ager Smith has his stars, his stock, his showy spectacles, and his surrounding satellites en regle. But his 'new people' are taken in and done for' on considerations which seem audaciously original to orthodox members of the profession; and, if W. H. (Sedley) Smith were not one of Nature's noblemen, as well as a fine specid men of 'the noblest work of God,' he could never get along with the mass of villanous incongruity put into his right royal hands to mould. How he can have so much patience with the conceited women and upstart men thrown over to him to tame and teach into some degree of contentment and intuitive consideration, has always been a mystery to me. "The Boston Museum company is divided into cliques, as antago- nistic and bitter as possible. There is the tee-total cold-blooded-as- a-codfish clique, headed by Mr. Keach, who, by the way, is really a glorious fellow, when you get acquainted with him. Then there is the gin-and-genius clique; this has usually been headed by Mrs. Barrett, one of the best-hearted women and most gifted actresses God ever made. Perhaps Frank Whitman mayF succeed to her mantle. "Besides these are the rich-man's-children clique and the manual- labor clique; the former get " shoved in " by letters of recommenda- tion and dollar bouquets; the latter shove themselves in by being stage struck, and are willing to come and perform in the evening after driving an express wagon, or setting type, or dressing hair all day. These last are most likely to be sincere, and deserve the most encouragement, because their devotion (even if it be mistaken) is sincere; and, so far as fostering young and native talent is con- cerned, we must confess our approval of the Museum system, strange as it seems in comparison with histrionic and green-room " manage- ment" in all the large cities of Europe and America. Young Finn [many is the joke we have cracked with his father!] is one of its most promising representatives as "a specimen, and long may he wave!' "What delightful performances!" exclaimed Mr. Caleb Quiz. Couldn't I get to be one of the stock company?" inquired he. "' Very possibly, if you try hard enough. What you really are will very soon be found out, and if you have the ring of the genuine metal, there need be no fear that you will find fast friends ini the 'management.'  "But the institution which receives all sorts, like a pickle jar, and is   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.       69 always in a pickle itself, is the Howard Atheneum. Nothing comes amiss now to this place. It has aimed to be the house of resort for the haut ton, and might have been so, but has sadly declined during the past four years. Heaven knows best how it can be regenerated. The declension first began under the hands of Messrs. Baker &'Eng- lish, and it has lately gone down at an accelerating rate. We are sorry to say this, for it has a pretty 'house,' elegant appointments, and a good location. It seems now that salt (attic or other kinds) cannot save it. "The fact is, this aim was too exalted for the comprehension of the parties who of late years got hold of the theatre. The aristocracy of Boston are not Ic' greenies' as had been supposed. Half-chlumn puffs in penny pape s failed to reach the desired readers, or to convert the public generally. "Public opinion had become far in advance of such 'managementS' People who may have been in London- or Paris ten or twelve days previously, cannot be humbugged as to what a 'first-class theatre' should be. Consequently, the course of the Howard has been spas- modic in its successes, and degrading in its downfalls. We make this explanation ' more in sorrow than in anger.' "Another point of explanation is highly honorable to the theatrical profession and to the public generally. The moral character of "first class" lessees and managers began to be taken into account. When one lady (but little known) is cast in the bills for' first business,' and another lady (never previously heard of in public) is put forward as premiere danseuse, the stock company and the public begin to inquire -why? When this WHY becomes generally whispered around, the result is somewhat unfavorable to those uxorious managers who are so stupid as to suppose that the great million use their eyes while looking at the ladies thus prominently situated. "As a class, we consider theatrical performers quite s good as their neighbors. But the devil's 'limps of idleness,' in the shape of pretty girls and soft-handed boys, furnish a continual supply of fresh and vigorous recruits for licentiousness. These are the curse of every theatre, and the Howard has had its full share of the affliction. It is only their parents and guardians who can properly abate this nuis- ance. These youthful aspirants will attempt any drudgery or appli- cation only to be in a theatre. The ladies, of course, have a peculiar fashion of turning their time to account, independently of salary. So well is this understood, that when a really honest andvirtuous woman   60        SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; is met with, the managers cannot hide their astonishment, and invol- untarily exclaim, 'Here is a woman who really lives upon her salary, and actually needs her money! The treasurer must be" informed of this.'                   r, "Perhaps you think this only a fancy sketch, but the poor prices paid, the' rich dresses worn, the usual manner of behaving by mana- gers to dressers, wardrobe women, supernumerary 'ladies,' (equivo- cal word!) and the female employers generally, will convince any ordinary observer of the painful truth. These items tell the 'story better than we can. "Of course pay-day is anxiously looked for by the 'ladies,' for they are always in want of some new shawl, or hat, or other article, upon which (their) every happiness depends; but, in reality, the class we allude to would hang and dawdle around a theatre for one cent each week, and do very well at that.            i "As for the ' gentlemen,' (a werry equivocal vord!) they may be known by'their lounging laziness, bloodless lips, a gait half heroic and half shuffle; but most conclusively, by laying in bed until noon, and breaking the hearts of all their best friends. This is only a general de. scription, but if the cap fits anybody, let him wear it, with our bene- diction - over the left." "Your description terrifies me, for I must own I began to feel some fascinations towards the stage, myself," observed Mr. Quiz. "But how about the critics Will you please to describe them as we are going home after the performances?"  "The three theatres here mentioned are, thus far, the results of all the battles-puritanical, political, or publicational- in favor or against the introduction of dramatic amusements to the good city of Boston. "Of course these combats have brought forward abundant opportuni- ties, during which the discrimination, the wit, and geniality ofi good critics might have been taken advantage of for the proper expression of public opinion. But we have heretofore been better supplied with agreeable writers than sound critics, and those opportunities 'have mostly been lost by neglect or want of observation and tact among the unconscionable contributors [!!!] usually engaged by the public press. Hence our standard of criticism has (in point of fact) been far below the real standard of taste among the people, and, therefore, failed to give, what it always should do, a sound direction and honest expression to the public mind. "All things considered, however, this is not much to be wonderedat..   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.      61 Certainly newspaper proprietors have not been to blame. They have done the best they could under the circumstances. We wish we could say as much of the managers around these diggings, for the public patronage, among the people proper, has always been liberal, however bigoted the legal enactments or the municipal regulations. "Properly qualified critics generally write for ' the tin,' (so Nat P. Willis says,) and the able articles contributed to the European peri- odicals are among the many beneficial results of the cash system adopted there. "All criticism is merely opinion. To be of any value it must be free and unfettered. That is to say, although the critic be paid, and well paid for his writing, his opinion must remain unpurchasable. At present the native good sense of an American audience forms the very best guide we have. "This, of course, is liable to be deceived or smothered. For exam- ple, a certain house 'gets up' another 'new spectacle,' (at 'un- heard-of expense,') and all the concomitants of gags, slang, and tinsel. The newspaper puffs (sent in by the manager himself, with his adver- tisement for the evening,) are inserted, making it out to be the greatest wonder of the age, telling people (in the imperative mood) to ' Go,' and making out everybody who does not go (when thus told) little short of clear fools.  "Well, our country friends get hold of the Boston papers, and begin to think that they must certainly go, if only to avoid this sweeping implication. Pretty soon they arrive in town, and are, (so the ladies express it,) 'dying' to go to the theatre. Of course we take them all, old and young; They are (so they say) 'delighted.' We find the spectacle a regular Bartlemey. Fair gag; but having paid for reserved seats, and not wishing to mar the pleasure of our com- pany, we contrive to get ' delighted' also. "This is the game played at present by means of the press. What do newspaper proprietors make by it? Must we tell tales out of school? They get the whole amount of ten dollars per month for put- tilg in the play bill, and the printer's wages forsetting the type come to half the money! The puffs (alias lies) are 'thrown in' for nothing." "Good Heaven!" exclaimed Mr. Quiz. "This is the plain truth;' and frorm,this you can infer how mpgh chance fair criticism has, either with the press or the public. Criti- cism i Ha, ha, ha He, he, he! Hi, hi, hi! Ho, ho, ho.! Hu, hu, hu!" 8   CHAPTER VIII. FOURTH DAY. Scene of Suffering. Churches. Charity Sermons and Contribu- tions. Reform Societies. Juvenile Beggars. Plain Talk. \ "Please, sir, are you a doctor," asked a little girl, timidly, of Quiz as he was walking through Fleet street, in the forenoon of the fourth day of his visit. A drizzling rain was falling, and our hero .was hurrying along quite rapidly, so that he did not disti-.lly hear then in- terrogatory of the child.               . , ' "What do you want, little girl?" asked Quiz, in a tone of kind- ness, as he cast his eye upon the little creature before him. She was very thinly clad, and it would be difficult to tell the primitive color of the dress she wore, it was so faded and soiled. A little chip bonnet hung carelessly from her head, and her little face was flushed with excitement. She wore no shoes or stockings, and her feet were purple with the cold. Her arms were unsheltered, and :. this desti- tute and naked condition the child had left her home-if that dearest of names might be applied to the wretched abode where the little one lived. So sad a picture had not met the eye of our country friend, and his heart was touched with sympathy. "Do you want a doctor?" asked Quiz, as he took the littlv girl's hand. "Yes, sir. Please, are you the doctor that my brother went after a long while ago?" "No, child, I am not a doctor, but I will call one if you wish. Who is sick?"  "You are very kind," lisped the child, who had not seen seven winters, i" my mother is very bad. Won't you be so kind, sir, as to call and see her?"   '  "a Of course I will. Let us make haste, for it is very cold." The eyes of the little one glistened with pleasure, and her young heart throbbed more violently as she thought that in a few minutes more her poor sick m6thelf would recover under the treatment of one so   PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.         63 kind. She was evidently of German origin, but seemed remarkably intelligent. A few moments brought them to a miserable, dilapidated wooden house, that fifty years ago might have been inhabited by some respectable, perhaps wealthy family, but now it was in a ruinous condition, and threatened to fall over the heads of the wretched inmates. Every room was occupied by a family, and there were Irish, colored, German, English, and even American families, in the building, many of whom cast furtive glances at our friend as he followed his little guide. His ears were shocked by the oaths, the vulgarity, and Babel-like confusion which reigned, and it required no stretch of imagination for our hero to fincy that he had entered the regions of Pandemonium, and that the motley group he saw were the spirits of the lost. He had never read or dreamed of such misery and degradation. Some of them mistook him for a policeman, others for a doctor, and what the surmises of the others were, it is impossible to say. "This way, sir, up these stairs. Mrs. Mahoney lives in that door, and Mrs. Scriggings at the top of the stairs; but if you will follow me, sir, I will show you mother's room." Quiz followed as closely as he could, but the light in the entry was so dim that he could with difficulty proceed. At one turning on the second flight he stumbled over the body of a female in a state of stupid intoxication, and once or twice he nearly stepped upon half- naked children, who, with mute surprise, sat upon the stairs. They finally ascended to the fourth story, and entered- a miserable attic. The scene of destitution was beyond description, nor could the pencil of the artist depict the appearance of gloom, destitution,\ coldness, dreariness of that apartment. "Here is my mother," said the child, as she seized the hand of Quiz, and led him to the low and rude berth, or bed, if the word could be so strangely perverted. On this pallet of dirty blankets and rags lay a woman, about thirty years of age, in a state of delirium, evidently induced by long and severe illness. Occasionally there was a glimmering of con- sciousness, but the horror which filled her mind at the awful destitu- tion, the almost certainty. of starvation, of her child, would cause reason to leave her again.     .              / As the cool air from the door, as Quiz entered, fanned her fevered cheek, for a moment reason returned, and when the child advanced   84        SIX DAYS IN TIE METROPOLIS; to the bed side, the emaciated and tremblirg arms of the dying wo- man were outstretched, and in a moment the little creature' was nestlihng near her mother's aching heart. 'Quiz felt that to remain longer a mere spectator of such suffering would be culpable, and with a promise to return in a few minutes he left the room, and soon after reentered, in company with a :physician. The child uttered a cry of pleasure when they entered the room, and so sanguine -were her hopes, that no sudden'acquisition of wealth to the avaricious could have been half so joyful. The doc- tor stepped forward to examine his patient, and Quiz leaned upon the rickety mantelpiece and glanced about the room. On the hearth were the brands of several barrel staves, which gave out but little heat. There was not a chair in the room, and in one place a piece of the floor had been torn up, evidently for the pur- pose of burning, to keep the miserable occupants from freezing. There was nothing in the room of the value of a penny, for long ago- the scanty furniture had been sold to pay the rent, and to provide the more immediate necessaries of life. "Do you find -her very ba.?" asked a brown-faced Irishwoman, who Just then popped her head in at the door to inquire after the sick woman, not that she cared particularly, but the shrieks of the sufferer, in moments of delirium, were quite disagreeable to her. The doctor'nodded, but made no reply. "Don't you think that she had better be sent to the Island, for sure she's a great trouble to"all of us?" ( No, she must not be moved. If she has the best of care she may recover, but there is little hope at best." s"Here," said Quiz, drawing forth two ten dollar bills, "here, doctor, promise me, as a humane man, that you will see this trifle appropriated- for the benefit of this poor family. Employ a nurse, and make -such disposition of the money as may be desirable: and when that is exhausted, if there is nd other resource, send me a note," said Quiz, handing the doctor a card. "My friend," replied the doctor, -"I accept the money on Thei con- ditions you propose,.and I assure you your charity has not been misapplied. I knew this family two years ago, and they were then in bdtter circumstances. They are Germans. Why they came here I do not know, but I have heard that her husband ,was obliged to leave Germany, having made himself obnoxious in some political movement. He- was .a musician, and performed at some of the   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN'TOWN.       65 theatres-'which, I do not Iknow. A year ago he died- the family removed from the house they occupied in Ann street, and I have never heard of-them since till now. She is an excellent woman, and the little child-you must form your own- opinion of her. Should her mother die, I should adopt her as my own." "But have you no charitable or- benevolent societies in Boston -no humane people whose 'business it is to look into these cases?" asked Quiz.     -   4 "Yes, we have benevolent societies of all denominations and of every name, but somehow or other their efforts generally fail to (teach immediate cases of Want and destitution in our very' midst. They generally overlook home charities and seek to relieve some real or fancied misery abroad. There isvenough given annually, as public doriations, to erect charity hospitals, employ agents to visit the sick, and to administer to their necessities; but bless you, sir, there are few :people who 'like to come up here, or into such places, among the dirt, and vermin, and dust, and inhale the pestilential air of the sick room. People don't like to come up here, at the risk of break- ing their legs or necks on these old and crazy stairs; they don't like to see sickness and tears and hear the groans of the dying. I tell you they don't like it, and they won't do it. "Rev. Mr. King and Drs. Lothrop and Stone and Caldicott may preach a charity sermon every Sabbath in the year, but with all their eloquence and sincerity and- plain preaching-they may feel ,all they say,-and more too--'but I tell you their audiences are thin and are always (beautifully less' whenever the public have intimation that a charity sermon is to' be preached. Bless you, sir, if you wish to make people scatter and: absent themselves from church, take up'a contribution for the poor. Who cares for the poor--what right have people to be poor:? Why should folks be unfortunate . Rich people are never unfortunate!  "People may contribute after listening to one of these- eminent divines, but they do it with, white kids- they place the money in the box, and regard( the matter as a adirect tax or loan- for which manry impious wretches. would like to; take a bond or mortgage of the Lord--think not and care' not as to:its disposition. The money is given, but little of the 'needful:' ever reaches these poor creatures. "-Then as to your reform societies-;-there's a deal - f humbug about them all. They:all have, treasurers: and -,presidents and secretaries ;and ,others, to .whom: salaries -must be paid, The,all   "       SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; keep a profit and loss account, and look with a worldly eye upon the balances. You may depend your philanthropists are generally humbugs-men employed on salaries to look after the poor. O, sir, it's all self- money, money, money, humbug and pretension! I would gladly give people credit for more humanity-and there are individuals that I can refer you to with pleasure--but these excep- tions are not numerous, and if there were no newspapers to blazon their charities, I think they would do less. "Many of the children of poor people, in this district, live and sup- port their parents, and sometimes boarders, from cold victuals they obtain by street begging; but this mendicity is fatal to all moral prin- ciples ;-many steal all they can lay their hands on. Sooner or later the families become a public charge, and the citizens are taxed for their support. Now, if proper provision were made for their educa- tion and support in youth, instead of burning our houses, stealing our goods, cutting our throats, or being supported as paupers, they would, in most cases, become useful and valuable members of society." The medicine which had been given to the sufferer, was attended with the desired effect, and Quiz left the abode of extreme desti. tution and suffering. "Boston a great city, but what apity that it is a place of such ew- ful wicked ess," said Quiz, after an hour's reflection on the scenes of the day./He might have indulged longer in meditation and lager beer, h it not just then popped into his mind that the Common Council met at seven o'clockthat very evening, so with all haste he proceeded to the City Hall. No one would think of making a visit to Boston with the praiseworthy intention of seeing the sights, and neglect to look in at the Common Council chamber-of course not. Quiz was not disposed to form an exception to the rule. From no- tices he had seen of this august body, he was prepared to find the assembled wisdom of the city-the paternal guardians of the public welfare. The profound regard which he had entertained for the board in- duced him to decline the polite invitation of Mr. Messenger Spurr, (who, with his usual keen perception, observed that he was a +' dis- tinguished fstranger,") to take a seat on the floor, facing the mem- bers. He declined, of course, owing to his excessive modesty, and taking a seat in one of the private boxes, he regarded the proceed- ings with great interest. The question under consideration was one of moment and importance to the citizens generally, and Quiz, who.   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.       67 entertained a just appreciation of-the issue involved, congratulated himself upon being so fortunate as to listen to the debate. The discussion had proceeded for some time, and Quiz found by looking at the clock that it .wanted just twenty minutes to twelve, but so intense was the interest awakened by the arguments, the elo. quence, and general enthusiasm, that to leave the Council chamber before the question was taken, would be to submit to an immense sacrifice-one that would require more self-denial than he possessed. There was such a flow of Ciceronian eloquence, so many apt illus- trations, pat similes, keen rejoinders, bold metaphors, and other fig- ures of speech, that a few of the less gifted members, unable to fol- low the train of argument, actually lost sight of the main question. Mr. Harkwell, of Ward Twenty-one, who had made several at- tempts to obtain the floor, again sprang up and caught the eye of the chairman. "Mr. President, I rise to a pint of order, and call for the state- ment of the question.", "The question is upon the passage of the order offered by Mr. Twaddle, of Ward Twenty-four, authorizing an immediate sale of the Old State House, and also the sale of State street. Are gentlemen ready for the question?" ' Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President," bawled several, in a breath. "Mr. Twaddle, of Ward Twenty-four." "Mr. President, I don't want to do nothin' that shan't hurt nobody, and shan't be of any injury to any class of citizens, whether native or adopted. I consider myself as good as anybody, whether he is an Irishman or a foreigner, and I only wish to go in for the good of the whole. I don't care for no particular section of the city, nor I ain't going to say nothin' that shall affect the interests of one class unfa- vorably while it elevates another. I am in favor of selling the Old State House because it is an ancient structure and not calculated to please the eye of Young America; and I don't care whether a stran- ger comes to this ere city and visits the Common Council, or walks down State street. If he comes here I am willing he should sit in the 'distinguished strangers' seats,' and if he walks down"State street I want him to gaze upon a beautiful building, reared by the pencil of the fine arts, beautified by the hand of the honest laborer, and be such an edifice as shall reflect credit on our. ancestry. This, Mr. President, is the reason I go in for having it sold. I am in favor   68,       six DAYS IN THE aMETROPOLIS; of selling State street because it is occupied daily, from }2 to 2 o'clock, by a set of men-yes, Mr., President, by what kind of a set of men, I will leave others to judge. And then, sir, it would be a tremenjuous income to the city treasury. I know it has been sug- gested to put a tax on the newsboys, applerwomen, and peanut vend- ers, on the street, and abandon my favorite- enterprise of selling. But little boys and girls who hain't got and never had no parents to bring them up, ought not to have the bread taken out of their mouths." !"Mr. President!" "Does the gentleman from Ward Twenty-four give way?." "Yes, for the purpose of an explanation. I am quite willing that everybody may say what they please, and do what they please, if they have a mind to, but I do like to have people hear to reason." "Mr. Blackstone, of Ward Twenty-two." ( Mr. President, I rise to a pint of order. I doubt the legal right to sell the street, although if practicable, I should favor the enterprise as being worthy of the immediate adoption of, this board. But, Mr. President, possession is nine -points in the law, and the venders of peanuts, the retailers of candy, the dispensers of news, the money changers, and the curb-stone brokers, have held possession too long to be easily ousted. They might remonstrate- yes, would remon- strate against the proceeding." "Mr. President." "Mr. Flighty, of Ward Twenty-seven."         X "I wish to offer, the following resolve :--Whereas, This body is composed of men of no ordinary calibre, and men who should guard their dignity with jealous care, therefore, Resolved, That reporters. are not distinguished visitors, and, therefore, unfit to sit on the plat- form on either hand of the President. They should be put in the rear. Now, sir, in offering this resolution ':- ' The gentleman is out of order. He must not speak tod any irrelevant matter," said the President. "But I must speak to something; I can't hold in aniy longer." "Then confine yourself to the question;"  "Mr. President." "Mr. Countemall." "I move the question be taken by eyes and :nose." "Mr. President."                 .  i l"Mr. Buncomb, of Ward Twenty-eight,"   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.       69 "This has nothing, as I conceive, to do with the question. When the myriads of ages yet unborn are looking at'our action here to. night, (the-clock strikes one,) to see what disposition we have made of the talents that has been endowed upon us, are we to shrink from the catagorical responsibilities. that enjoin uninterrupted and felici. tous concert of action which is, undeniably, demanded. No, sir! a thousand- times, no! The vast outlay in peanuts, the unprece- dented investments in newspapers, the hopes and the fears of brokers, bankers, contractors, jobbers, and others, should counsel us in the most sanguinary rhanner not to proceed to hasty action or to an immoderate disposition of what, if let alone and untrammeled, would redound, as it does, to the brilliant glory and unquestionable dignity of this metropolis." " Mr. President." "Mr. Swell, of Ward Twenty-nine." "There is many arguments which might be used pro and corn, as Shakespeare somewhere says. It may be said that n6wsboys and peanut sellers is :not necessary, and is a crying evil, and should be abated.  The severe drafts upon the treasury demand the sale, but here is a  consideration which gentlemen 'should reflect on: with these juvenile traders their peanuts is their little all, and it would not be in accordance with our boasted liberty, characteristic and noble-hearted generosity, to do sich a thing. Again, the reviving sea breezes from Long Wharf, which, as the poet says, is wafted along the street, exhilirating the beholder, - these, sir, are reasons why we should retain it." Here Quiz fell asleep and lost-the remainder of the debate. The question was finally put, and the order to sell was rejected. When the Boaid adjourned, the messenger kindly awoke Quiz, who apolo- gised, and returned to his lodgings, now fully convinced, of the dignity, greatness, and importance of the popular branch of the Bos ton City Government- the Common Council.    CHAPTER IX. FIFTH DAY. Curley deviseth Means to Entrap our Berkshire Friend. The Plot matured by Brazen Kate. The Note. odges. Saturn and  is Rings for Six Cents. View of Venus gratis. North End Ex- ploring Expedition. The Black Sea. Dance Halls. Daguerreo- types fromlife. The Effect of Good Clothes. Watch and Watch- Houses. Fast boys of Cambridge. "For three days I have dined by invitation of Mr. Quiz. He has paid for the cigars I have puffed and pocketed, the wine I have drank, and the little extras incident to life generally, and to my precious life in particular. This is all very well, but by-and-by he will pop out bf town and I shall be no better off than I am now. I have made but twenty-five dollars, in ready cash, on him so far, and if I understood him correctly, he must have three or four hundred dollars. I have tried, and I think successfully, to convince him that I am a devilish good fellow -companionable, honest,- fie on that word, and so I am - experienced in the ways of life- right there, too- on the whole, just the fellow for him to confide in," thus soliloquized Mont' gomery as he sat in the reading-room of one of the down-town hotels. Just as he had reached that quality which he supposed would inspire Quiz with confidence, his musings were interrupted by a white-jacket, who came to say that a washer-woman had called to see him sixteen times during the week, and had just left word that if he -did not pay the five dollars, now due, she should not send back his I's last week's washing.  Now this was assuming a serious look, inasmuch as he had worn the shirt he had on, at least seven calendar days, and had no change, either in linen or dimes. "Here, waiter, say I will see her to-morrow; am extremely busy; could'nt see my best friend on business to-day." The waiter vanished, and probably communicated the message. ( Here is a pretty go. How the devil can I go out to dine with a   PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.        71 dirty shirt, and how can I dine here unless I get the tin to pay the last week's score. Something must be done. Here it is, I have but one solitary ninepence, and that must go to the barber. Five hundred dollars- is a heap of money to make and lose the same evening. I should have stopped playing at twelve last night, for I had then,that modest little pile. But away with the horrors. Quiz has got the rocks and I must have them' that's settled - how?" "Mr. Montgomery, Mr. Lamb, the tailor from Willow Hall,'has called for his pay for that overcoat you bought yesterday," said the waiter, again popping into the room.  "Tell Mr Lamb,"-said Montgomery, but he was interrupted by another waiter charged with a message. "Mr. Montgomery, Mr. Able, the hatter, says he is very much pressed for the money, and would like that five dollars to-day." "The devil take Mr. Lamb and Mr. Able- tell them I am too seriously indisposed to be troubled about business to-day. If they will call the last of next week I shall, I trust, be able to see them." "Yes, sir, and Mr. Waterproof has just called, for the third time, for the pay for those French calf boots." "Tell him, if he calls again, I'll have him up for getting money by false pretences - he told me they were a good article-they have ruined my best corns." "Yes, sir," replied white jacket, as he disappeared. "Heie is a sheriff at the door. He says you may pay over the dosh this morning, or he shall arrest you," said the bar-keeper, rushing into the room, quite out of breath. Montgomery ran his fi gers up through his hair, as he always did when in a very embarrassing dilemma. A thought struck him and he rose from his seat. "Tell Mr. Roast, the landlord, I must see him here forthwith- say to the officer that. I am with him in less than sixty seconds, -no, say half a minute." The bar-keeper was prompt in delivering his messages, and Mr. Roast entered the room. "Landlord, here's a pretty go. An officer at the door. I must pay fifty dollars or go to jail. The first I can't do and the other I won't. "Well, what then?" "Roast, I owe you a hundred dollars. If I go to jail I'll never pay you; if I get out of the scrape I'll pay you to-morrow. So advance the money."   72        SX- DAYS IN T;B THETZ OQLIS; Big drops of sweat stood on the brow of old Roast, What a precious amount of toddy and Tom and Jerry he must sell, to be sure, before he could reimburse his treasury. He consented. Done," said Roast. "Give me your hand," said Montgomery, and he did, as also the tin. Montgomery pulled the bell cord. A waiter entered. "Send the sheriff to me- show him in.? "Good morning, Mr. Montgomery. You see I have called." "Morning, sir. I see you have," coldly replied Montgomery. "Well, I am sorry; but I must not shrink from my duty, however disagreeable it may be." "Good determination, sir," replied Montgomery. "What is your business with me?" "You must settle this bill of fifty dollars or go to jail." "Well, but you are a surly old fellow. Why the devil don't you ask me to pay your bill, if you have one? Why do you mention the alternative? Here is your money," said Montgomery, with noncha- lance. "(If you have any more bills I'll settle them now." "I have no more, sir," replied the officer, who now began to feel great respect for Montgomery, and was about to apologize for his rudeness, when that moneyed man interrupted him and poured upon his gray head his maledictions, and charged him never to speak the name of "Montgomery" in a business way again. The officer left the room immediately, and "Curly " was free from annoyances. His wits were somewhat disconcerted by the interrup- tions of the last half hour, and having relieved himself so success- fully from the presence of debtors, and with a deeper conviction than ever of the downright necessity of coming into immediate possession of the funds of Mr. Caleb Quiz, he went out and called at a house where he had promised to meet Brazen Kate. *"Well, Kate," said he, as he found her punctual in her engage. ment, ' it is all up with me, unless I make a ten-strike at once; but how to arrange the matter I don't exactly know." Get him to play with you, and win his money," said Kate, with- out hesitation. "That won't do, for he's dead set against gambling; and besides, he thinks I am fit to join the church." "All owing to your early piety," replied Kate, laughing. "Well. now, I tell you, Kate, there's no wAy 8o effectual aa the   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.        73 panel operation; but, whatever you do, we are to deal on the square, you knoWv. Fair play and no gouging," rejoined Montgomery. "O, leave that to me. I saw him in the omnibus a few days ago. He is a gallant young man, and should be done for. I'll arrange the preliminaries. Give me some paper, per, and ink," said she, and these innocent articles being provided, she wrote as follows: "Quiz-My dear fellow, I have dined with you nearly a week, and you have not been my guest for once. Now, Quiz, I have got some of the old 1798 wine fancy brand, come and dine with -me'to-nmorrow, at the Stanwix Hotel, you must. I shall receive a few of my friends in a private way, you know, and we'll hlve a pleas- ant time. Besides, bless your heart, Quiz, I have got something rich totell you, about-no matter what; but Quiz, if you don't come, you and I will be two. Call at 2 o'clock-walk right up to 24-I shall be in. Yours, in determination to see all the sights,  F. D. T. MONTGOMERY." "There, read that," said Kate, as she placed the note in his hand. "That'll do. It's just the ticket." "Leave all the rest to me. Mind, I am to have half and a little more.'  "Honor, you know, Kate. Honor is our motto-not a mill more than half." The letter was sealed, superscribed, and despatched immediately. Quiz received it.  "Fine fellow," said Quiz, on reading it. "Companionable--gen. erous to a fault-man of good principles-although he has seen so much of life his morals are unscathed. Nothing like passing through a fiery furnace and coming forth unscathed. Fire tries the pure gold. I'll accept, of course." And so he did-a polite note signifying his acceptance. The bait took, and Quiz determined to have a good time. The day passed like those he had already spent in Boston. He visited the public buildings, saw the lions generally, and became more confirmed in his first impression that Boston people had their peculiarities and their faults. As he was passing dqvn Court street in company with a friend, he observed a man (to whom he had been introduced) who appeared to be very lame. Quiz was interested in the case, and asked his friend the cause. "Probably his case is like that of Charles Baker, the actor, who was accosted by a friend, as he was hobbling down street by the aid of a, lrg pltiok, and in morning pain. His shQq was down at thq   74        IX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; heel, and cut in broad slits across thb toe and instep, as if to prevent its pressure on the foot. His friend was surprised at his appearance, as he had not heard that he had met with any accident. ' Bless me,' said he, 'how long have you been lame.' ' Ever since I! came to London,' he replied, 'and I am afraid I shall not be better till Sat- urday.' ' What,' said his friend, 'is your foot so very bad?' 'No,' he answered, slyly,' but my shoe is, and having no money to buy a new pair, I thought it better to appear lame than poor."' They were speaking of the dodges practised'by city people, when Quiz called the attention of his friend to a man who -was exhibiting a telescope, and calling out, "Here's a fine view of Saturn and all his rings, only six cents a sight, with a fine view of Venus all for nothing. Walk up, gentlemen!" In the evening, Quiz accompanied a friend on a North-End explor- ing expedition, with the intention of seeing the " sights " in the Black Sea. About nine o'clock they called at the North watch-house to obtain a guide, it being deemed unadvisable to venture into that sec. tion of the city unaccompanied by an officer, as for many years it has been the resort of the worst of rogues and felons. Having secured the services of a watchman, our party proceeded immediately, determined to make a night of it. From Richmond -street they went to a large woodenbuilding, by no means worthy of notice for its architectural proportions, but which evidently answered all the purposes for'which it was erected and leased. The sound of music and dancing was heard as they approached. At the door stood a crowd of black devils, Irish girls, bullies, blacklegs, thievess and up-town bloods, who had also come to gratify their curiosity. Our trio at once proceeded up the old, dirty staircase, and at the head of the second flight entered the first dance hall. There was not a super. abundance of paint, paper, putty, or whitewash, but the interior pre- sented a dingy appearance, quite in keeping with the character of the beings who assemble there to pass the night in a state of delirious excitement. The exhalation which greeted their nostrils on entering would never have been mistaken for the breath of orange blossoms. On the floor were four couples'going through a cotillon in rather eccentric movements. They had evidently just patronized the old dirty bar, and paid their small change to a swarthy, sloppy, dingy, yet good-natured negress, who stood behind it, intent on dealing out rot-gut, cigars, or ale. If the dancers, in going through the evolu- tions, chanced to embrace their partners, and introduce some other   OR, 'ATASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.       75 figures shocking to refined sensibilities, it was their way, and was all the same to them. One was a jolly sailor, with a beard a Jew might covet, and a trim little tarpaulin, with some extravagance in ribbon; he seemed fascinated with a young colored woman, fat, swarthy, and saucy; another was an up-town dealer in tapes, calico, and mus- lins, whom Quiz remembered to have seen at Union Hall; he was dancing with a female named Molly Brown, who had just been par- doned out of the House of Correction, where she had been sent for shaking down the venerable John Smith, of Huckleberry Corner. Another man, well known in respectable society, was making himself agreeable to a flashy feminine, pretty, but frail, who answered to the name of " Lize."'  Quiz's companion, by way of giving her a bit of wholesome ad- vice, exclaimed with all the fervor of an interested counsellor- " Go it, Lize! Go it while your young. The House of Industry will be open to you when yo.u are old -.so go in, lemons !"  Per- haps she did. Bob Brown, a colored man of aspiring aims, was dancing with a white girl who rejoiced in the name of Lola Montes. "Jordan am a hard road to trabel," ever and anon exclaimed the fiddler, who was industriously sawing on a violin, and entrancing himself with his melodious cat-gut notes. This worthy and import- ant functionary sat on a raised platform at the end of the hall, and kept a sharp look out for the sixpences for dancing; and if any pre- sumptuous wretch should dare to dance and not pay he would bring an old house upon his head, or something worse, for the bar-tender would soon cause him to have a vague impression that he had been struck by' lightning. Few try that game, however. Around the hall are plank benches or seats on which are lolling " black, white, and gray," all mingled together in the most loving manner. A yellow girl, with a large number of brass rings on her fingers, was listening to a love tale of some aapper clerk on Hanover street. It would be impossible to give all their names,,and we therefore, refer the curious to the book of the House of Correction. The walls were ornamented with flash pictures and figures drawn with pencil, by amateurs, which work of art, if not affording evidence of taste, certainly indicated a depraved mind and licentious imagina- tion. The dance was soon over, and the men took their partners to the bar and " stood treat" to all the vile stuff the smiling, sweat- ing, sweet-scented goddesses saw fit to call for. Their language wu  that of vulgarity and profanity, and without the least restraint   y7       osxi DAYS IN TxIE MEtROPOULS'- "A fight, a fight!" echoed a dozen voices, and sure enough on the opposite side of the hall a Hyer-and-Sullivan performance came. off. Somebody had accused another of robbing-him, and the other's sense of honor being wounded, he has taken this method of obtaining satisfaction. Constable W. K.. Jones was heard coming up stairs, and the fact being announced, in a moment there Eras not a female to be seen -they had all vanished, and like fiends, had melted into air. The gas was turned down,and the puailistic-individuals, in attempt- ing to escape, rushed directly into the arms of officer, Jones, and were borne off, while they made night hideous with their drunken bawl- ing. Soon quiet was restored, the girls peeped'in, and then re- turned; the hall was re-lighted, and the orgies proceeded. At the close of every dance the compandy imbibe, and by one, two, or three o'clock they all get "deeply, darkly, miserably blue," and many of them are conveyed to the watch house to sleep off the efects of the bad rum. There are many dance halls in the city, but some of them are lower places -for there are grades of respectability even in these regions. After passing an hour in this manner, they proceeded to prosecute their discoveries. The officer, had a warrant from the Police Court for the arrest of Mary Mullhany, for being a common drunkard,.and proposed to Quiz and his friend to accompany him. Of course they did. On arriving at the entrance of the cellar, in which the accused lived, the officer whispered to them to " look out for number one," as this was one of the hardest places in the street. The party followed him to the steps leading down to the cellar,-- and by this time a group of more than twenty persons, men, women, and children, of all colors, and all more or less intoxicated with beet or bad rum, gathered about the place. "Ah, indade, an' the officers have come after Mary Mullhany, who keeps the bar jist down there," saidpne. ".Hist, Patrick, perhaps it's yourself they are afther," replied an- other, curious to know the cause of the descent. Our party entered the cellar, and while the officer addressed some inquiries to a girl who was there, Quiz and his friend glanced about the apartment. The ceiling was formed of roigh boardss supported by stakes and nails; the floor was of loose boards, rough and irregu- larily laid; there were heavy beams overhead, and but one small window, which being closed, the effluviia was almost insufferable. There was little' that co'ld' be callede ifurnitdrO. On'0 oie 'Side was 'a   OR9 PHASES OP LIFE IN TOWN.        " rough pine board, which answered the purpose of a' counter, and on it stood a beer bottle, and in this was burning-a piece of tallow candle, vhich afforded a dim light. A single chair, a broken stool, an in- verted box, and a pine table, two legs of which had received com- pound fractures, completed the inventory of the furniture of the room. There were several beer and brandy bottles, and a monstrous hick- ory club concealed beneath the counter. "You will not -be so cruel," said the girl to the officer, "as to take the poor, woman to-night. She is very ill, having broken her leg only yesterday, and it is now twelve o'clock." t I've been here after her a dozen times before, but she has always kept out of my way, and she must go to-night," replied the officer, firmly. The girl appeared to be honest, and, as Quiz thought, wept. They  entered a small room formred by a partition of rough boards. It was about five feet by seven, yet in this cave, on a heap of straw, lay the prisoner. Of course, the-girl's story was false, for the old woman bounced out of bed quite nimbly. She begged, promised, lied, and expostulated, but her appeals were all in vain. "Well, thin, Biddy, jist be afther nailing the door and the'win- dow, that nothing won't be carried off," said the prisoner, as a pre- cautionary direction, finding the officer -was inexorable. "Is it that ould sinner, Judge --, that I'm to see in the morn- in'," she asked, with - manifest anxiety. On being assured that it was not, she congratulated herself on saving two months, at least, for the magistrate whom she named had sent her "over" once for a similar offence. When she issued from her bed ,room she was a disgusting and loathsome object. Mary Mu lharfy had been before the Police Court too many times not to know the effect of good clothes upon the re- sult of a case. She therefore asked permission to change her dress, and this being granted, she soon appeared quite another person, and was escorted to the watch-house. Since the days of that "ancient and quiet watchman," Dogherry of Messina, ,various reforms' have been made, and sundry improve- ments introduced into the manners and customs oft that curious ana- tomical specimen facetiously known -as the "guardian " of the ,night. The author of these trifles' is at ha. loss to know, however, Why "the watchmen should not have kept up with the "spirit of: thetimes," 10   78'       SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS;  and why we nightly find in their ranks beings whose stupidity Ax- ceeds that of the loyal constable of Messina, and whose brutality would have astonished that worthy, even had it been done " in the prince's name." "The watchman, noW-a-days, has an intense'reverence for *good clothes,' he 'bows the knee to Baal' always, 'and oft times, when extra inducements are offered, he is perfectly willing to kiss the dust at Baal's feet. He persists violently in the idea that the moon ought to shine when she is regularly almanaced so to do, and with very'economical logic he positively refuses to supply our streets with artificial light when that luminary does not perform her implied contract with the city government. "It is a cloudy night, with a raw east wind; sharp as a disappoint- ed applicant for office. It is past twelve o'clock, and the second watch, hastily rising from their '.bunks,' are mustering underi a constable prior to relieving their fellows who " went out " at seven. Run your eye along that line of men. There's muscular power for you; there's bone and sinew; but not much of. intelligence, man's immortal part. Little mercy in those stern countenances, those hard- hands, those dull eyes, those sensual mouths, for the houseless wanderer, the helpless woman ' fallen from her high estate;' the neglected child tempted to crime, by the demon Hunger ; the outcast drunkard, or the penniless sojourner, ' a stranger in a strange land,' who, strange enough, has stretched himself beneath some friendless stoop, And the watch house itself, how inhospitable and hard and cold everything looks. The wall is garnished with short, ugly clubs, the very look of which, harmless though they be, gives, one an, uneasy sensation, and make a hasty glance quite sufficient. \ "Ah! there's a stir outside-.an arrest and an attempt at a rescue, even before the doors of the watch-house. The night air is made hideous with: the mingled oaths and groans, and ever and anon the sound of blows given and received, shows that hard heads are receiving the benefit of harder hooks. The doors are opened, and in rush three or four watchmen with their prisoners, a drunken Irishman and his enthusiastic friend.. They are both covered with,blood, from wounds received- from the hooks, and between bad rum' arid knocks on their heads they are crazy and know not what they do; they are pushed, thrown, or- kicked down into -a badly-ventilated cellar, smelling painfully of new whitewash, and are then locked into a cell together. . They fall- on the stone floor, or, if they have sense enough   oA, PIASES o, LIFt IS?TOWN.       79 left, crawl into a 'bunrk,' although it be overrun with vermin, deposited by street loafers, male and female, w'ho beg or steal their food during the day, and at night drag their diseased bodies into the watch-house for lodgings. "The prisoners may call for water, in the most agonizing accents during the night, but the fat and lazy constable, whotis aroused from his slumber by the unusually loud lamentations, showers impreca. tions on their heads, and rolling himself up in his comfortable blanket. sinks again to sleep, wondering why drunken Irishmen were brought into the world to torment him. "Let us peep over his shoulders, Mr. Quiz, while he makes his record of the arrest, to be shown to his Chief, the next morning. Here it is: "Pat Donovan was brought in drunk and disorderly. His brother attempted- a rescue, and was also committed. Never here before. ,' Another arrest and another row! Of a verity, business is lively to-night. But this is a different affair. A party of jolly boys who being full of Heidsieck, broiled Woodcock, and lobster salad, to which they had treated-themselves at Parker's,. have been vocally avowing their admiration and' profound regard for the I Old Folks at Home,' at one moment, and the next asseverating a decided intention never. to join the aforesaid' Ifolks' at the parental mansion until an exces; sively late period in the morning. They have had a' hard fight with' the watch, too.  They are pupils of TAYOR, and have' displayed their knowledge of the tactics of the prize ring by'sundry black eyes, bruised heads, and groggy noses, which ornament the forms of their captors. They are not pitched down stairs, liketheir .predecessors! Oh, no  ! Their spokesman, a tall youth, who has been two years at Cambridge, and delights in the reputation of being a ' brick,' has a conversation with the constable; -  there are hints about ' my father,' 'settling,' and 'I've been here often enough for you to know me,' cards are left, and the whole party is liberated, to sing more songs, ring more door bells, give more imitations of chanti- cleer, steal more dentist's signs, whip more watchmen, get into more watch houses, and pay more of their father's money for the luxury. We   do not' propose to give our friend Quiz a logical essay, or to show what] things should be; our business is only with what they are. Perhaps the watchmen are as' good as can be got for the money. They are generally truckmen or porters, whose education being neg- lected, their acts are generally governed by the joint causes of bru-.   80       SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS, ETC. tality and avarice. To be drunk is a great failing in their eyes, but to be poor and drunk is too heinous a crime to be pardoned. The law and the Police Court Justices give their "( judgment" the widest range; and if their judgment tells them that John Brown being drunk and ugly, and without money, ought to have his skull cracked, they have no hesitation in following its dictates. It is also a remark- able fact, that a man may walk half, a mile in a dark district, and not a watchman will he see, but suddenly coming to a well-lighted cort ner, he is puzzled to account for the appearance of three or four, snugly ensconsed in some comfortable door-way; and, if not dozing, settling the affairs of the nation, a matter which they consider Con- gress wholly unable to accomplish. The watchman's reverence for the constituted authorities is im- mense. He has an awful respect for the Common' Councilman; he is ready to fall down on his knees before an Alderman, and as for the Mayor, his reverence knows no bounds. He values people by the disinterested standard of what they will bring, and the tax book is the nitric acid by which he tests thexharacters of those with whom he may come in contact. He generally votes under surveillance; and the "star spangled banner," the constitution, and other arrangements which our fathers are. supposed to have fought very hard and bled very much to sustain, are, therefore, of no possible account to him. He mortally hates all those persons who, unfortunately, were born in Ireland, and thinks that they were made to be continually knocked about, and that he was invented especially to do the knocking afore- said. Such is the watchman and the watch-house, as seen by Quiz. The night was far advanced, and outr friends returned to their hotel. *f .   CHAPTER X. SIXTH DAY. Boston Girls. Intelligence Ofices. Libertines of Respectable Fami- lies. Ridiculous Fashions and Habits. A Plot to Fleece Quiz. Nice Young Women. A Dmnner, and Wine of 1798. Quiz observed-and it was a remark evincing a lack of gallant- ry - that the Boston ladies were not remarkable for their beauty, and that not more than one in ten, whom he met on Washington street, had any peculiar claim to consideration on the score of person- al charms- mind he did'nt say a word about their goodness, for he remembered an old adage that, "homely peoplel &c., he conceded the fact that the ladies of this city are quite as, good, perhaps bet- ter, than those of any other city, but he did say, and with consider- able emphasis, that the Boston ladies " ould'nt begin" with the Berkshire girls in personal attractions. Angels in rigoletts and thin shoes--their faces did not wear the glow of health, their cheeks were not fresh and ruddy, their eyes lacked that lustre and brightness he always looked for, and hoped to find, nor would the cosmetics most in favor restore the charms which he was forced to believe had been forfeited as a penalty for intemperance. "Monster," some fair one will exclaim, " intemperance, indeed!" but Quiz was not a monster; he was right, if wearing thin shoes, going to balls three nights in the week, and to theatres and concerts three more; tight lacing and an aversion to pure air, is not intemperance, it is, because Dr. Webster forgot to include these indiscretions as illustra- tions of the meaning of the word. The shop girls enlisted the sympathies of Quiz; he noticed their devotion to business, and knew, as everybody else does, who thinks, that they are killing themselves gradually, sacrificing the best parts of their lives for the paltry sum of two dollars a week - not enough to find them in ribbons and laces, to say nothing of board and other   82        SIX' DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; expenses. Of course what their employers do not pay, somebody else must, and it is of the acquiring this extra compensation that many of the shop girls would not have us say a word for the world. Girls in candy shops and milliner's establishments and fancy stores, must not be watched too closely, and then again, its nobodys' business if they do so early lose their freshness and beauty and involve their consciences and principles, in issues to be settled hereafter. Quiz should not have inquired into particulars, because some things are intended to be kept secret. Quiz would have spoken plainly had he felt at liberty to do so, apd would have declared that in many kinds of employment for females, in Boston, the most powerful inducements are offered to step aside from the path of virtue and right. There are a thousand temptations and inducements, to sacrifice purity and virtue; ;and no one who has had opportunity for observation, will be surprised that, the police records and private histories of young women, in this city,engaged in such vocations, should show that vice and crime is-not confined-to the low-born or the ignorant and friendless, but that among its vic- tims are fthe daughters of respectable farmers- and mechanics who have fallen sacrififis to the allurements of city life. Girls must live-of course they'must--they must -pay their board - and virtuous girls don't board for nothing. Girls must -dress, and they can't buy delains and silks for nothing. Girls must have other little knicksknacks which .are among the essentials to human happiness; because they are human - that brings us to the " how;" Girls are n6t halftso much to blame as the avaricious, close-fisted old misers who employ them and pay as compensation what everybody knows is not half enough to procure the necessaries of life. Where do these men expect to go hereafter, and who will do their work when they get there? Employers have a responsibility upon them which they can't shake off when their female employees sigh their receipts " in full of- all idemands." They promised to pay a certain remuneration; and they have paid it, but they dictated their own terms, and they have urged or compelled their employees to resort to other and damnable expedients to obtain what they could not acquire as the fruit of hponest labor. The Intelligence Offices in the city furnished subjects for the at- tention and reflection of our observing friend. There are thousands of girls, daily, who resort to intelligence offices as-a means of obtain- ing situations where they can earn a livelihood by honest industry.   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.       983 Induced by advertisements, they apply not unfrequently at offices which are the very gates of death-offices kept by soulless monsters, who not only wring from the unfortunate and "homeless being her last dollar, but by arrangements with libertines and keepers of vile dens for prostitutes, involve her in difficulties from whieh sometimes she cannot extricate herself, and falls a sacrifice to the murderers and cut-throats by whose hellish machinations she was entangled. God help her who applies to -an intelligence office for a situation! It is not certain that an applicant at every intelligence ,office is ex- \ posed to the hazard of ruin and disgrace. There are, undoubtedly, ' offices conducted by persons of principle and honor; but so long as unprincipledimen can obtain licenses, or be permitted to conduct the business, so long there is no safeguard, and there can be no guarantee that the honest and friendless girl who seeks employment by this fvenue will not be exposed to infamy and a fate worse than death. /  Leaving Quiz to investigate the result of an investment he had made in tickets to a gift concert, during the second day of his visit, we will glance into the' interior of a beautiful brick house not far from Court street. There is nothing about the exterior of the build- ing to attract particular attention, unless it is the fact that every blind is closed, and there is sotmething superfluous about the entrance. It was the residence of Kate Hancock, better known as Brazen Kate. It is furnished in a style of elegance and splendor which only the wealthy can afford. The furniture is of the most costly description, being of-carved and elaborate ornamental work; the carpets are of the richest style, and, in fine, every thing is elegant and tasteful. . In the front parlor are half-a-dozen girls-all beautiful-of voluptuous forms, and attired in the richest silks and satins-glittering with jew- elry, and engaged only in whiling away the (to them) tedious hours of sunshine. They were girls who, a few months previous, were as innocent of crime as they were ignorant of the snares and allure- ments of life in town; but now, lost to all sense of honor and shame they are abandoned creatures-lost to virtue and goodness, lost to their friends, to self-respect, to everything good, and devoted only to ,the acquirement of money--that for which they have sold themselves forever.- What a-scene of splendor and magnificence, and yet what a heart-rending scene for friends of the party who are conscious of the degradations to which they have fallen, and realize the utter hopelessness of any reform in this world. They are gay, thoughtless,   84        SIX DAYS. IN TIE METROPOLIS; careless, and joyful; and if the recklessness which they have as- sumed does not allow of that exuberance of spirits and frivolity which will banish all regrets, the stirulating wine cup sends upon the brain a cloud that obscures the tablet of memory and the re- morse of conscience. Among the group was Kate, the woman whom, it will be remem- bered, was under obligations to Quiz for a seat in an omnibus, a few days previous-a woman whose charming appearance had so favor- ably impressed the fancy of that gallant gentleman, and the woman who had relieved his pocket of fifty dollars.'     r Montgomery called at thp door, and had a private interview with Kate. "All right--there is no doubt of success," said he. "I have. cautioned Quiz several' times to observe the greatest precaution as there are hotel thieves around the city, and for two or three daysi he has'carried the balance of his funds about*his person." "That is your business-to see that he has got the tin with him -and mine to relieve him of the filthy lucre."  "It wants a quarter of two, and I must hasten back. Have a clear coast about ten.",        .  Kate promised, the door was closet, and Montgomery returned to Stanwix hotel. Punctual as the Old South clock -there is no need of referring to more distant time keepers - Quiz presented himself at room twenty-four, and was instantly admitted. "Ah, Quiz, I'm glad to see you -am 'pon mysoul. You are looking finely after your adventures last night. You will soon be- come accustomed to the continual round of city life." "I have a robust constitution, and could always endure fatigue remarkably well. I can mow longer, rake more hay, or dig more potatoes, in a given time, than any fellow up in our parts." "Ha, ha, ha!" laughed Montgomery, " your mind turns con- stantly upon agriculture. Here you will find rakes of a different kind."  "I believe you, but the devil take them all - I don't like city life It's well that a young man should see the sights and know what's what, but to live in Boston is not exactly agreeable to me." - "Pshaw! You will make innumerable acquaintances, and I'll warrant a month hence you'll positively refuse to go back to Berk- shire, except to pass Thanksgiving with the old folks."   OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.      85 "The fact is, Montgomery, Im off in the first train to-morrow morning, and I sha'nt be seen in these diggings,again for one twelve months." "S-h-o-w!" exclaimed Montgomery in surprise, " you don't tell me that?" "Yes, sir, I've seen enough of the sunshine and shade of city life, and I'm o-p-h to-morrow morning."' - "Just in time, then," said Montgomery to himself. "Dinner was announced, and the - bottles bearing the memorable date of 1798 graced the tabje. Wine flowed freely, and the occasion was one of peculiar enjoyment, not that Quiz was a disciple of Bachus, for he was not, but the conviviality of the occasion, the flow of wit and -mirth was unrestrained, and Quiz was a man of social feelings. "Quiz, how about that Gift Concert, I understood it was to have come off last evening." "And so did I, but there's a heap of fun about the whole affair."  "Let me fill your glass, and then tell me all about it,-alpa "hum," was it not?"  Quiz was not reluctant to receive a single glass more, but he rarely drank wine of 1798, and so hed should be excused.  "Well, there was a screw loose. I don't really think ttemanager meant to do anything wrong; but then fhe city fathers, he said, wouldn't permit the thing to come off. I invested ten dollars, not that I cared much about the result, or expected anything." "Of course not," replied Montomery, "but how did the thing turn out?" "Why, a large number, at least several hundred persons, went to the Music Hall, and waited in the cold more than an hour for them to light up; but the gas wouldn't burn-so they said-and the sexton had lost the key, and besides, Mr. Dothemall, the manager, was in the condition of the god Baal,-he couldn't be awaked." "Devilish good," roared Montgomery,-" well?" "Might have been devilish good, but the victims did'nt see the point of the joke,'and so couldn't appreciate its goodness. ThNy waited in the cold, freezing and shaking, and hoping and doubting, swearing and murmuring, but Dothemall didn't come-pressing en- gagements prevented. The finale is, that by hundreds, or dozens, or singly, the victims, with wo-begone countenances, walked away, en- deavoring to believe that they should have drawn a blank any how,   86       SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS, ETC. and so it was of no great consequence whether the manager came or not. Others, more sanguine, who believed in sevens and nines, and who had always been in luck on the odd days of the month, especially after dreaming of a disappointment-these were loud in their de- nunciations of the management. This morning the hopes of the few were sustained, the fears of the others dissipated, and -the anger of the many essentially modified, by a card which appeared in the papers signed by Manager Dothdmall, stating that at some future time the affair should come off." "Hum," said Montgomery, "they must be green who believe that he will ever come up to the scratch." This evening," continued Montgomery," I must introduce! you to my cousin, Ida Brown; she was from up your way. We will pass the evening with her. She will expect us, and I took the liberty to say that we would both call."'-   - .  "Right Montgomery. I never decline to call on pretty women."4 So many patriotic feelings were aroused, so many pleasing asso- ciations called up by the wine of '98, that the couple lingered long at the table, and it was nearly four o'clock when Quiz returned to his hotel.   CHAPTER XI. Mishaps that sometimes befall Strangers. A Hundred Dollars' Worth of Experience. Gamblers. Gilded Vice. Quiz Leaves Town at a very Early Hour on the Seventh Day. Quiz entered a drinking saloon, and there found in full use all sorts of implements for gambling, and around the tables were hoary- headed gamesters, haggard-eyed losers, moustached young profligates, and gray-beard votaries of the gamblers' art-the squandering spend- thrift and the grasping miser, the swindler and his unsuspecting vic- tim-and around those fatal tables, engaged in games of chance, were to be seen numbers of females. Through the whole extent of the saloon, women, with the warm flush -of excitement upon their cheeks, were cutting and dealing cards, rattling the dice-box, and indeed the saloon seemed intended for the especial occupation of fe- male gamblers, who, reeking with filth, and vice, and infamy, nourish and swell the sweeping tide of licentiousness, so mad and dreadful in their midst. The horror of our hero was in no wise lessened when he was in- formed that there are many such places in Boston. As he was reflecting upon the scene of degradation, he called to mind the state- ment which Rev. Henry Ward Beecher recently made in public. "One evening," said that gentleman, "I made a tour of observa- tion, with Mr. Pease, from dance-house to dance-house. I thought I had seen life before, but of all the scenes I ever saw, one there im- pressed me most powerfully. A burly woman was dealing out drink; on the floor were all manner of disreputable characters; oaths and vile ribaldry were heard; and near the stove was a little, curly- headed, rosy-cheeked child playing-hearing nothing, seeing nothing of all the roar of damnation that was going on around her! It brought tears to my eyes." We often speak of the depravity of certain classes in all large cities, but the off-hand sketches of scenes at the Five Points, in New York, or the descriptions of low life in other American cities, are believed often times to be exaggerated accounts; persons suppose   88    SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; that the pictures are too highly colored, and the productions contain a glow of fiction which, although they may excite the imagination and occupy the attention for a leisure hour, are like dreams, the cre& ations of a lively fancy; and this belief detracts from the painful emotions which would otherwise swell the bosoms and moisten the eyes of the humane and philanthropic. But there is much truth in these delineations; the sweeping tide of vice has deluged whole dis. tricts of our city, and thousands are swept along on its turbid wave, borne on at a fearful rate to certain destruction and death. Vice gilded or in naked deformity stalks about our streets, and its mien has become so familiar to our gaze that we scarcely observe it. Gambling, prostitution, robbery, theft, and numberless other crimes scarcely excite a passing remark. Rum, that insatiate mon- ster, reigns king over thousands here, ruining the young and the old of both sexes, rendering cheerful and happy homes the abode of wretchedness and sorrow, and robbing the poor of even the scanty portion which misfortune and adversity may have left them; ruining those who yield to its temptation, blasting the hopes of parents and kindred, blackening the fair prospects of the gifted, scathing the hopes that have been cherished, destroying peace, and fostering dis- cord and deepest misery wherever its fires extend. Rum, rum, rum-the deadliest foe to man, the parent of every vice, the insatiate and potent demon-how many thousands dost thou gather annually from the young and the old, and drag to thy black- ened sepulchre! how many homes render desolate, how many bright fires extinguish in blackness upon the hearthstone; how many fond hearts are widowed before they are old, how many bright hopesN are crushed, even at the moment of joyous fruition; how many leads, bowed with sorrow, that find rest only in the grave; how many fortunes are wrecked, how many crimes of blackest dye committed, and how many are plunged into the gulf of despair and damnation, Dy thy potent, andimalignant, and demoniacal influence! The contemplation of scenes such as we have witnessed fill the heart of humanity with bitter sorrow and keen regrets. But what are we doing to stay the evil, and to save fallen victims from iirpend- ingrand certain death? what are 'we doing to check the tide and pre- serve from the polluting wave the innocent who are in the channel, and who sooner or later will be overtaken and borne along its devas- tating course? Nothing. In almost every street are rum shops, in almost every street dens   OR, PHASES OF LIFE iN TOWN.        89 of vice, assignation houses, and gambling hells. This is in the puritanical city of Boston, where thousands are given for the support of foreign missions, and for the benefit of those thousands of miles distant. If complaints are entered in our criminal courts against keepers and patrons, of these places, the low, the ignorant, and the poor are generally the parties accused. Some how or other, perhaps from some obliquity of vision, the keepers of popular establishmnents, wlho are no less guilty, and whose influence is far more dangerous, are. lost sight of entirely, and punishment is reserved for the former class. The "golden" medium through which the guardians of public mor- als look, is often of too dazzling brightness to permit of the vision penetrating it, and blinded .by its effulgence, they are quite willing to believe that vice does not exist there, and that they should not pryj too inquisitively into othertfolks' business.  If rum shops are to be shut up- those first closed are on the bor- ders of the black sea, and the poverty stricken wretches are mulcted in heavy fines or compelled to endure imprisonment, while proprie- tors of more popular establishments are permitted to deal out " wine for the sto ach's sake," as long as the capacity of the stomachs, aforesaid can contain it, and the offence is winked at. If gambling saloons are to be closed, and descents are to be made on their patrons, the third and fourth class prop-rooms and- gambling places are the especial objects of attention. The ears of the authorities can- not hear the "' small shells shaking" in the vicinity of Bulfinch or Beacon streets - O, no--of course not- why shduld they, their patrons are " gentlemen" of quite another class, whose positions in society-whose respectability and wealth afford sure protection, and shield them even from suspicion or the breath of scandal. So far as efforts are made to ,put down vice, they must meet the approval of every humane man, and well-wisher of society; but the course of reform should not be exclusively confined to a particular class; all offenders should be brought to justice. When the yellow scales of the size of gold dollars, fall from the eyes of some of our blus- tering reformers, then, and not till then, will men be weighed accord- ing to their worth, and censured according to the measure of their iniquities. But we have only presented the dark picture. Our city is as noral, perhaps far more so, than most cities of equal population. There is no place which is more deserving to be denominated " a city )f merchants."   90        SIX DAYS IN THE METROPOLIS; There are places, it is true, having more territory, greater wealth, more influence in national affairs, but there is none more,prosperous than Boston, and there is no place which owes its prosperity more to the mercantile trade. When we look to the resources of her wealth, the evidences of her prosperity, the institutions for benevolent objects, founded and sustained by the liberal hands of her merchants ;i and look at the fair prospects of these'institutions for fiture success and usefulness, we shall find no other city on whose walls could be more appropriately inscribed, "a city of merchants." The character of her 'erchants has been the treasure of this community. Quiz had seen vice and degradation in the damp and loathsome cellar, in the attic, and in the splendid saloon. A train of reflection led him to remark upon the immorality of city life, and he observed that in a city containing so many churches it was indeed remarkable that vice could stalk abroad as it did in Boston Meeting-houses sugges- ted ministers, "crack" preachers, and others of lesser note. His friend, in answer to his inquiries respecting the, former class, read the following portrait served up by Thackeray, who, doubtless, took the outline in Boston.  "The glass on his chimney-piece is crowded with invitations, not merely cards of, ceremony (of which there are plenty,) but dear little confidential notes from sweet friends of his congregation. "O dear Mr. Honeyman," writes Blanche, "what a sermon that was! I Lcan- -not go to bed to-night without thanking you for it." "Do, do, dear Mr. Honeyman," writes Beatrice, "lend me that delightful sermon. And can you come and drink tea with me and Selina, and my aunt? Papa and ma'ma dine out, but you know I am always your faithful Chesterfield-street." And'so on'. He has all the domestic accom- plishments; he plays on the violincello; he sings a delicious second, not only in sacred but in secular music. -He has a thousand anec- dotes, laughable riddles, droll stories (of the utmost correctness, you understand) with which he entertains females of all ages-; suiting his conversation' to stately matrons, deaf old dowagers (who can hear his cleat voice better than the loudest roar of their stupid sons-in- law,) mature spinsters, young beauties dancing through the season, even rosy little slips out of the nursery, who cluster round his beloved feet. Societies fight for him to preach their-charity sermons. * * The men come away from his sermons and say, "It's very pleasant, but I don't know what the' deuce makes all you women crowd' so to hear the man."    OR, PHASES OF LIFE IN TOWN.       91 T At eight o'clock Montgomery called for him,- and after passing an hour or two at the theatres, together they proceeded to the residence of Kate Hancock. The scene of splendor led Quiz, of course, to suppose that the Brown family were wealthy. Kate was not in the parlor when they entered, but a girl of some personal attractions-improved fifty per cent. by rouge and chalk-was introduced as Miss Ida Brown. Here in this house was Quiz, as innocent as he was verdant. Ida had doubtless been instructed to appear with marked decorum, in order not to excite the suspicions of the visitor. A door to another parlor was ajar, and rather a novel scene was witnessed. A iaiddle-aged man, whom -Quiz had seen at Union Hall, was making himself agreeable to a young woman, who received his attentions without the least embarrassment. An elderly man en- tered the room, and, on seeing the couple, started back with amaze- ment, exclaiming, "My son, are you here?" "Why, father!" exclaimed the younger of the men, starting up in astonishment, "are you here?" "My son, think of your wife and your litle ones, and then remain here if you can." "Father, think of your wife. and your larger ones; of the exam- ple you are setting for me and for my brothers, whom I presume at this very moment are in equally interesting situations!" "What brought you here, you rake?" "The hack," replied the incorrigible son, with surprising coolness, "And what brought you here?" "I came in a cab," replied the exemplary fatheri "But the indiscretion is unpardonable in a man at- your time of life." "The more inexcusable in my son, who has a young wife at home."  '"Weil,-governor, we are too much alike to dispute, these points. The fact is, hundreds and thousands, I might say, of young married men patronize these establishments, and I rather think, if they did not the places would not be supported." "Oyou rascal! you are honest, if you are a little tricky, on some matters; and to be honest with you, my son, I rather think. there are some older men, with larger famiiesi who sometimes call merely to see life." And they were both right. Quiz heard the conversation, but at   92        SIX DAYS IN THE MEtRIOPOLIS; that moment the door was closed. His suspicions were somewhat excited by this strange colloquy, and he was about to leave the house when Kate entered the room. A recognition, an introduction, and the omnibus affair was talked over. Ida had slipped from the room tunobserved, and Quiz, to his amazement, found that Kate and himself were the only occupants of the parlor. But they were not long without more company. a large, brawny fellow with black moustache, and evidently in a furious passion entered, and, seizing Quiz by the collar, exclaimed, "So I have caught you at last; I've heard of your omnibus adventure, and here, you audacious wretch, in my own house you dare to bestow your caresses on my wife." "But, sir "--               ' "No apology, sir, I'll here none. I'll have satisfaction for this in- jury, sir. You need not tremble. I'll not shoot you down as I should be justified in doing; but sir, the COURT shall settle the mat- ter-yes, sir, the court, and to-night you'll occupy a cell in the com- mon jail, where many better fellows than you are imprisoned." Qaiz would have explained, but there was no opportunity. Re. dress the injured husband was bound to have, and visions of his Berkshire home popped into the excited brain of Quiz, and he asked, "What do you propose-I have done no injury to any one, sir, but as you fancy yourself wronged I'll settle it, for I belong in the country, and must leave town to-morrow."             i' ( Must, eh," gruffly replied the panel thief. All this tipme Kate, as in duty bound, was weeping-over the left. "Yes, I must. I would'nt go before the court for the world."  "I thought so. If you are innocent,-why do you shrink from an examination?"  "Why the fact is, my dear sir, I don't wish to have my' name!n the papers-or on the court records. What would-my friends; at home say," and Quiz wiped the perspiration from his face. l "It's a matter' which it is not right for me- to settle. Hshould com- promise my honor by consenting to a settlement," replied the thief. "Well, then, I'm a victim!" replied Quiz.  "But, sir, if you'll leave town, and promise, - yes, swear, that you'll never speakl to, or recognize my wife again, I settle for two hundred dollars."' Qtiiz was not a little staggered at the proposition, but seeing no alternative, accepted the terms, and transferred the amount demand- ed. Then being about to leave the room, the thief said,   OR, PHASES OF. LIFE IN TOWN.       93 "But, sir, a stain is not obliterated from one's honor by the payment of money, and these bank notes are of no value to me in comparison with an untarnished reputation. Now, sir, there is one thing more - you are never to speak of the occurrence, for if the ear of scandal should hear of the circumstance, I fear my wife would be ruined -she would be discarded by the circle of her acquaintance, and we should be plunged into still deeper infamy, shame, and disgrace."  Quiz promised, and swore on a copy of Webster's unabridged edition, and left the house and proceeded at once to his hotel. After he had left, Kate entered the room in which was Curley, in waiting, and true to the old saw, that "there is honor among thieves," divided the spoils as nearly equal as possible, and congratu- lated each other upon their success. "I told you I could do it," said Curley. "But you didn't, though. Whatever credit there is for the opera- tion, I am entitled to, as it was I who laid the plot." "You may have the credit, but I had rather have the money," re- plied Montgomery, who for the first time for a week had been in funds. This game is performed, but too successfully, almost every week, as the records of our Police Court will show, to say nothing of the numerous instances where the operation is only known to the operators and the victims. Quiz's experience is that of hundreds, who have, in the vain hope of recovering their money, or eliciting sympathy, told the tales of their verdancy to the police and night watch. It was nearly twelve o'clock when Quiz returned to his hotel, and threw himself upon a sofa in his apartment. "Taken in and done for," would be the description of my visit to Boston. "Done brown, too, at that. What would my friends at home say, should they learn of my adventures in this the most eventful week of my precious life. But I will examine the state of my fi- nances. I have now been in Boston six days, and on the morning of my arrival I had five hundred dollars. Three and five are eight, and ten are eighteen, and three are twenty-one, and these two tens make forty-one. Heavens! here, then, is all that is left." Then ringing the bell, nervously, he called the clerk and demand- ed his bill, saying that he must leave town at five in the morning. The bill was but thirty dollars, as he had paid for, his wines on receipt of them. The bill was finally cancelled.  ,    -    "       SIX DAYS IN THE MEitIOPOLIS; "Thirty dollars out- leaving the very small balance of eleven dollars-ten for my fare and one to the hack driver." ( Will you have breakfast before you leave," asked the porter. Quiz looked at the bill, and glad to find the price of the meal therein contained, replied - "Of course- O yes, certainly," and the porter withdrew. Quiz examined hjs valise, and sat down to reflect. "Rather guess that bill's wrong. One week's board, thirty dollars, - guess provisions are on the rise. But now I remember, Montgom- ery has been my companion at dinners frequently. Guess it's all- right. But there are four hundred and fifty. dollars to- be accounted for. Let's see, there, s two hundred off, this evening, as "satisfaction," fifty more as a penalty of politeness in the omnibus, twenty-five more in sundries - still there's one hundred and seventy-five-to be account- ed for, but it's of no use; I must charge that as corporations do, to 'incidental expenses and miscellaneous 'claims.' But I'll let by- gones be by-gones. Boston is a place of awful wickedness, and the peculiarities of Boston people are, indeed, remarkable. Six days in the metropolis is ample time for one of inquiring mind and ordi- nary perception to observe most of the phases of city life." Long before daylight the porter rapped at Quiz's door, but he was asleep, and it. was not till the son of the Emerald Isle put his mouth to the key-hole and exclaimed- "MAisthur, ifye don't get up yez'll have to remain in the city another day." Quiz started from his bed. He took breakfast with his usual appetite, and was nothing loth to follow the porter, who carried his valise to the coach. Just as he was about to enter the. carriage Montgomery met him and grasped his hand, warmly exclaiming- "I am quite fatigued, I have hurried so to see you, and bid you good morning before you leave. Come, Quiz, we must crack a bot- tle of champagne before you go." "My dear fellow, I have only an hour before the cars leave, and I would not miss the train for a year's salary and perquisites, so don't  ask me to remain a single moment." "Well, I declare, Quiz, here you give me the cut direct. I had flattered myself-but there, no matter, don't let me detain you, sir," replied Mointgotiery in a tone of one who had sustained some injury ;and felt deeply grieved. "But, Montgomery, no other consideration than fear of losing the   OR, PHASE9 OF LiFV. IN TOWN.       -9 train would induce me to be so rude to one who has shown himself so kind and so warmly interested in my welfare during my visit to this awful wicked city." "I have been interested, -indeed, and if I have rendered your stay agreeable and profitable to you, I am-but too happy." A"'y dear fellow, give me your hand." ( The coach is ready, sir," interposed the driver, who was quite impatient of delay. Quiz did not- notice him, although he wash the identical driver who first received him on his arrival in town. "My dear fellow," continued our hero, addressing Montgomery, "I am anxious to be off before the sun rises, but I had rather sacri- fice my comfort for one day, at least, than to evince aught that jeal- ous friendship can construe as ingratitude. Charge me with- any thing but ingratitude. Remove that valise carefully and iplace it in the hall," he said, turning to the driver. "Then you won't go in this train," asked the driver. "No--yes, yes-that is if you can wait say fifteen minutes." The driver consented, and together the friends entered the hotel. Wine they must have, of course. Quiz was generous, but-he felt some hesitation, and his face was flushed with embarassment; - He would not be mean or niggardly, even if he had to walk home. Still there were misgivings in the regions of his trowsers pocket.} The thought of -the distance from Boston direct to Berkshire flashed through his mind, but he did not entertain the idea for a moment, and being of a mathematical tarn, at once calculated the difference in subtracting three dollars-the price of the champagne-from the funds in his 'treasury. Eight dollars was a sum quite too small to defray his expenses, but-wit is money sometimes, and so it was in this case.            '  "Montgomery-plain sherry is my preference, and I may be per- mitted to indulge my taste, as it will be our last drink together." Montgomery might have brushed away a -teai had his grief at this statement ,been of the lachrymose order, but it was not, and he replied,'                i "Yes, sherry it is." "Two dollars saved, at any rate," thought Quiz, but his thoughts were not known to Montgomery. The wine was brought, and they sat down in a cosy manner to test its quality. ,   96       SIX DAYS IN THE MuETrOPOLIS, ETC. "I can't say my visit has been very profitable, in a' pecuniary point of view, although I cannot say that it has been profitless in  another sense." "How do you mean?"asked Montgomery, feigning great sur- prise. Quiz recounted the adventure of the last evening, and Was very precise in his account. "You must. not, and I know you will not, believe me guilty of any impropriety with Mrs. Hancock, although her jealous husband has charged me with a grave offence-a crime nothing would tempt me to commit."        . "My dear fellow, I believe you are innocent, of course. But there is no such thing as reasoning with a jealous husband. Did you say the fellow assaulted you, and claimed your money in settlement.' "He did; but, perhaps, I have done wrong to inform you of, the fact.;" "Now, Quiz," said ,Montgomery, who could not endure the thought of his leaving town as long as he had a dollar left,  "don't leave town this morning remain but a single day longer,  and if there is any such thing as redress for wrong, I will aid you to  obtain your rights, and recover your property."  "No, let the money go-if it were double the amount, I would note' inform the'police, for I could never blot out the stain which would blacken my reputation. Mind and keep my adventure a profound secret,"   Quiz pulled out his watch, saw that the time was up, bade the scoundrel Montgomery good-bye, and an hour later Caleb Quiz, Esq.,' was on his way from the metropolis.       
         
       
   
