
    ----CITATION----
        Bricktop.. Odd-Fellowship Exposed .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7801
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Odd-Fellowship exposed 
            
               Price   ODD-FELLOWSHP EXPOSED   "CLING TO HOPE." ON A RAISED ,RACRCOURS1 HWAS MADE TO :IDE A WILD BOAR SEBVRAI, TXImE8 AROUND THR LODGB-10OOM, IN ORDERO T EST MY COURAGE AND ADHESIVE QUALITIES. NEW YORK: PUBLISHED BY WINCHELL & SMALL, "3 FULTON AND 48 ANN STREET. 1872.   ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1812,by WINCHELL & SMALL, In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.   ODD-FELLOWSHP EXPOSED. (WITH ALL THE ODDS AND ODDITIES.) INTRODUCTORY.    FRIEND BRICKTOP :-Ever. since your great expose of Freemasonry was published I have burned to do the world some service in the same way, and to place my name on a secondary pinnacle of fame. In imitation of your great achievement, I herewith forward you a narrative of my experience with another powerful secret brotherhood-the Odd-Fellows. Of course, if   you sme it to publish it, I shall take the precau- tion to lock myself into a burglar-proof safe every night for safe-keeping; but I shall enjoy my re- venge and notoriety just as well, nevertheless. Leaving it all to you, I remain, my dear old Ring-Buster, Yours, ever, ELI BAXTER;   MR. BAXTER'S NARRATIVE.   Getting married is apt to set a man to thinking. If he is an honest man, he will stay at home with his wife during the first year,-leaving billiards, wine, fast horses, and stray women, entirely alone. In short, he should swear off everything :that does not enhance the joy of the do- mestic circle. This settles a man some- what. This gives a man a chance to think. After a year or two, if a man isn't extra honest, he will begin to have new ideas- ideas of worlds outside of his-ow -- That was my case exactly. Mrs. Baxter held her owh pretty well; and, although. I had no hankerings after the flesh-pots of Egypt, yet I somehow felt it my duty to find some rational excuse for being absent   from home now and then of an evening; not that I loved Lucy Kate a whit less than before, but-well, I wasn't home- sick so much as I should have been. But, you see, I wanted to be honest all the while. In whatever way matters shaped themselves, I desired to be square and to give Mrs. B. no grounds for com- plaint. I knew she would never suspect me of wrong. She knew how docile I had become. Ons night I proposed to her that I should join the Masons, and then she could take the Eastern. Star Degree. I showed her what a splendid thing it would be if she should happen to become a widow, or fatherless. The proposition frightened my poor *1   wife so that her back hair fell down, and she appeared to be dissolving generally. You see, she had read Bricktop's expose of that order, and so she appealed to me to -abandon the idea-nay, she commanded me to put it away. Then we went to bed, and she told me all the terrible things that those awful Masons had done to her dear first husband, although she had only recently found it out. His hair never grew out again, she said. They "raised" him by his nose, and it was always out of joint afterwards. The bumps and bruises stuck by him for six months; and, what was worse, they burned him so that he couldn't sit down to his meals, and was obliged to take them lay- ing down, or standing up, for as much as three months afterwards. And all this before they had been married scarcely a* year!           i As she contended that it had hastened her first husband's death, I took'4 sudden disike to the Order, and promised to have nothing whatever to' do with it. Then she sobbed like a glad chickabiddy, and nestkd down to snore. But my mind was fully made up to join something, if it wasn't anything more than a meeting-house, or a reform organization. There must be found some reasonable ex- cuse for being out a night or two each week. I skirmished around the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Aiimals for a while,-and tried to have them take me in and make me a member of that organiza- tion; but, because I wouldn't agree to chloroform every oyster I swallowed, and file my canary-bird's teeth at least once per month, they voted me ineligible on account of having so tough a heart. Then I tried to join the Knights of St.   Crispin; but they wouldn't have me be- cause I wasn't a shoemaker, and couldn't prove beyond a doubt that any of niy an- cestors weae 'cobblers. The fact of my brother-in-laxw being able to concoct a good article of sherry-cobbler would not go down with them, although, undoubt- edly, the concoction Would have done so. Then I tried the Knights of St. Peate. rick; but they rejected me because I wasn't an Irishman, and had never dabbled in politics. After these and numerous other trials} it began to be known around that I was anxious to join something, and then I re-, ceived invitations by the dozen-another proof of what advertising will do. A friend of mine, by the name of Podger, came to'see me one day, and asked me if I wouldn't like to join the Odd-Fellows. I asked him what inducements he could  hold out; for, you see, I was in demand now, and could afford to be a trifle partic- ular. He replied: "As for inducements, I can hardly tell you what." "How often do you meet?" "Once every week. But, being a married man, you can easily make it two or three nights a week to your wife, by telling about committee meetings, charity visits, etc. Do you understand?" he asked, winking quietly. "I think I do," said I. "So far so Wood. Now, what are the requirements?" "Oh, a trifle'for initiation, and a trifle every week in the shape of dues. But, if you ever conclude that you would like to get even with the lodge, you can play sick for a few weeks, and receive charity. "No, thank you; guess it wouldn't pay. But how long does a man .have to lay abed, h,   or remain in the hospital, afterAl eing ini- tiated?" "There you lalor under a mistake. Odd- Fellowship is Freemasonry toned down, di- vested of. its rough and trying. features. Why, bless you! a young girl could stand our forms of initiation; they are as mild as soda-water without thickening. It's   will be balloted  for. and elected, after. which you can take. as many degrees as: you like." ' "Good enough, Podger. You attend to it, 'and I'll give you a fair percentage on all I ever make out of it." Thus agreed, we separated. At this time my family was, stopping at   Mn. BAXTER HASTENS WITH THE GLAD NEWS TO HS WIFE, EXCLAIMNG, "i EUREKA 1 " ' ii   only a pleasant affair; and invalids have been known to go through with it several times in succession for the benefit of their health." A "That settles it," said I; "I will join you. Now, tell me what I am to dot" "Keep perfectly quiet. I will propose you to our lodge, when in due time you   Long Branch ;add, afte settling everything in my mind, I hastened to the boat to be conveyed to them. Just see how honest I was. I resolved at once to make a confidant of my wife, and tell her all about it just the moment we met. I also made confidants of several of my friends on the boat, and we had two   or three bottes of wine on the strength f it. No sooner had the cars slackened their speed, and arrived within a reasonable distance, than I leaped to the ground; and after pin-wheeling it for a moment, I picked myself up, and started for the hotel, where my loving wife and well-fathered children awaited me. "Lucy Kate," said I, rushing up to where she stood on the piazza, "Eureka!' "What?" she asked, in wonder. "Eureka!"I again exclaimed. "Champagne, I guess," quietly remarked Lucy Kate.. "No, no, my love,: come up-stairs, and I will tell you all about it." We retired to the privacy of our own parlor, where I unbosomed myself without loss of time. "Why, Eli Baxter! do you really mean it?" :she asked, after hearing me through. "Yes, in less than a month your adored husband the 2d will be an Odd-Fellow," I replied, proudly. "Div me some too, Pop?" asked my oldest boy, who had got an inkling of something good to come. "'Eli, get your life well insured, payable to me." "Oh, nonsense! they don't treat a fellow so rough as the Masons do-no ghat, no gridiron; no, nothing that a kitten might not survive." "But a life insurance policy is nice to have in the house, you know," she added innocently.. "You shall have one; and, besides, if I should be taken sick, I can still keep our style of living on what the lodge will pay me." "Well, that must be very nice. But I shall feel uneasy until I know you are in-   sured; besides, I shall return to town next week, anyway: it's awfully dull here." "All right! you shall do whatever you like.", So, you see, I had things fixed with Lucy Kate. 1 hat night I confided my secret to sev- eral of my friends whom I knew to be members of the Order, and they congratu- lated me. We opened champagne, and congratulated each other until it was quite late. At length they went off to bed; and left meitiff:the bar-room alone with the night toddy-tosser and one or two waiters. I tried to collect myself, but my legs wouldn't assist worth a cent; so I concluded that I could stay there just as long as my legs could, and so shoved;-them under the table, and began to sing, "I beg pardon, sir," said the bar-keeper, coming ove. to see if I had any sheets not in the wind. "I beg pardon; but dd you know that it is almost three o'clock?" "' Well, what of it? can't I stand it? If I haven't the money with me, ain't my credit good?" "No doubt, sir; but it is almost too late for an irregular serenade." "I say; young fellow, are you an Odd- Fellow?" "I should be if you were not here," he replied, turning away, and motioning one of the colored waiters to attend to my case. "Bettah be gettin' up-stars, Boss," said the waiter, rescuing my hat from the spit- toon. "I say, Brudder Bones, are you an Odd- Fellow?" "Sahl! I guess it's nobody's business if I am off color," replied the indignant chunk of ebony. I   "No, no, yot don't understand-are you an Odd-Fellow?" "Yes, sah, I'm de off-fellah in de day-- time: I'm a night-hand." "Oh! you're a son of the darkness, eh? Why don't you join the Odd-Fellows?" "Don't know noffin 'bout dem fellahs,   next week; and when I get in, I'll propose you." "Better let me show y;to your room, sah," he suggested, in his usual win- some way when he expected to earn a quarter. "Peter, if you think that is the best    I ' W A.sNY CgA,3[PAa2, BUT T1l8 PICKLE ID .B, IAI E4D1E Ma. PUIT NY COAT AND -h'N TO BED, AND HANMG CYBElV 9ZeA CHLL.   sall. I'm a 'spectable married man, an' tries to keep good coipany." "That's my style-that's why we get along so well together. What time is it, Cesar Augustus?" "My name's Pete; an' it's past 'two 'clock." "All right!  Best thing. you can do, Pete, to join the Odd-Fellows. I'm on it   thing on your bill of fare, you may show me some of ii." "Where is your room, sah?" "In the hotel here somewhere. Don't you know who I am?" "Couldn't say for sartain, sah."' "Well, dam-fi-no! Show me up some- where, and I'll make it right in the morning."   -If vou believe it, that. darky and an- other one tried to make me believe I couldn't walk. and got me to lean on both   They knew of a vacant room, and thither they piloted me. For some reason or other-but probably   I NETER SUSPECTED THAT THS WAS A PART CF HU IlITIAT O ; IIUT THE DOCTOR BAD CHEERFULLY THAT THE MEDICINE WOULD RIL 01l CUIOE )IE, II(N FIE MNTEB.   their shoulders, hoping thereby to get aj lien on my pocket-book. At all events, they took me in hand, and I assisted them in getting me up-stairs.   on account of a pickle that I ate during the evening-I somehow had an attack of unreliability. What transpired after I had piloted my sable attendants to the   room, I have but- little recollectio : or. But I was found the next morning. I was found by an artist--a friend of mine-whom: my anxious wife had engaged to hunt me up. He interviewed the night hands, and by that means found my room. The door was not locked, and as he push- ed it open, the situati n struck him so forcibly that he made a sketch of it, which is reproduced andc presented in this cdn- nection.   I am always very particular about my clothes- always placing them care- fully upon a chair near my bed; but. on this occasion, owing to the effect of that pickle on my functions, I had made a mistake and reversed the order of things, placing my coat and vest carefully in bed, and hanging myself over the back of the chair. I have been laugh- c; at a great deal since then on ac- count' of that little   mistake, and my friends always look -in- credulous when I try to explain the effect that the Long Branch pickle had on-me. However, the next day I returned to New York, and was joined by myyfamily in the course of a few days. Licy Kate would give me no rest until I took out that policy on my life; and, as I wished in all'ways to increase her love for me, I hu- mored her with getting insured.   But the all-important event was at hand. I 'had been proposed, balloted for, and elected to become a member of the great order of Odd-Fellows. I was about to go through the gentle forms and pleasing ceremonies which distinguish it from Free. masonry. My friend Podger, 'who had taken such an active part in getting me under way, called for me at my residence. I told my wife, as I parted from her on that long-to-   be-remembered oc- casion, that neither of us realized how much we owed Pod- ger. She said, Yes, anu shook  Podger's hand. Then we started for the scene of ac- tion. Arriving at th'e lodge-room, I was introduced to several members of the Order, whom I fouid waiting in the ant-roonm. "This is Mr. Bax- ter that is to be ini- tiated to-night," said Podger to a group of Odd-Fellows.   "What! initiate that-man! You must be crazy, Podger He is sick'!" remarked one of them, while the others fully coin-. cided with the strange remark. "Sick! Are you sick, Baxter " asked Podger, turning to me. "Well, I was not aware of it. I think you must be, mistaken,' gentlemen," I re- plied. "Oh, you are sick! there can be no doubt   MR. BAXTER hIDES HSELF IN HS CLOTIIES AGAIN.   of that. Call the Grand Surgeon, and see what he says." They agreed. What)the deuce did it mean?-sick! I never felt better in the whole course of my life.  However, they took me into another room, where several dignified-looking men were seated, as though in ordinary conver- sation. The Grand Surgeon was appealed to, and after looking at me a moment, he asked to feel of my pulse. I handed over my wrist, and he fingered it, while the others gathered around in evident solici- tude. "Let's see your tongue," said the Grand Surgeon. I slipped it out for inspection. "You are a sick man, sir  You will have to be put to bed,'and submit to a course of treatment, before we initiate you. Iivsh to see if there is anything chronic  about you; for none but sound, healthy men are admitted into the benefits of our order." I protested that I was well; but that did not appear to make any impression with them: they had voted me sick, and that settled it. They took me into anothei room where there was a bed, and after un- dressing they put me to bed with great care and attention. Then several doctors gathered around, and after holding a consultation, they be- gan to give me medicine. This I did not object to so much, for it tasted very much like a good article of brandy toned up with peppermint. Then they watched the effect with much anxiety for several min- utes-the Grand Surgeon seated on the side of the bed, with my wrist in one hand and his watch in the other. "Ah, it works!-it works i" they all ex- claimed, after a few moments.   I thought I felt it; although I couldn't see where the " sick" came in exactly. What was this all about? Was it a part of the initiation, and had I begun those harmless forms without knowing it? This was the most reasonable conclusion, and so I kept quiet,and resolved to take it as it came. "Yes; he is cured. The Olamueshumki has restored him, and at the same time it shows us that he has nothing about his system that prevents him from becoming an Odd-Fellow," said the Grand Surgeon. "Get up and dress yourself," he continued. Without loss of time I went into a box- like closet where my clothes were hanging% and hurried myself into them, after which I was again conducted into the ante-room. "Well, how do you feel now?" asked Podger. "Why, first-rate! Between you and I, Podger, I think them fellows were mis- taken." "Oh no: you looked bad." ".Frightful!" put in another; "anybody could have seen that you were not well." "Now, brothers, let us retire to the lodge-room, and open the lodge," said an old fellow, with a nose as red as a rooster's comb. "This gentleman we will leave in the hands of a committee who will at once begin his instruction preparltory to ii- tiation."  With this the crowd who had assembled in the room withdrew, and left me alone' with a pair of solemn old mules, who im- mediately drew down their faces, and be- gan to look as though they were about to make a funeral of me. "You have heard the orders of the Nabob Grand," said one of them, and which the other immediately repeated. "Oh! is that the Nabob Grand?"I asked.   "Yes, that was he who drew off the brethren." "Rather a wholesome-looking old chap." "You heard his orders-did you not!" "Yes: I suppose you are the committee." "Most undoubtedly." "Well, I'm passive. What is your first move " "To administer to you an oath." "Go it! I always was good at them things." "Avoid all levity, and br .ia yourself for the encounter with the awfIl solem- nities which await you." "I am braced! Proceed!" "Well, repeat attr me, 'he follqwing oath, inserting your full tiame rff the pronoun I: 'I, Eli Baxter, havig teen raised from A bed of sicness, and tiken in hand by the noble order of Independent Odd-Fellows, promise and swegr  hat I will go through with this initiation with- out faltering, failing, or fainting; : at. I will take all that is given, and hold my peace; that I will never bolt from the Order; that I will attend all regular and irregular meetings; that I will pay all dues that are imposed upo0 me; that I will never forget an Odd-Fellow, or an odd widow; that I will never suffer my wife. or miy mistress to plhy Delila with and rob me of the secret of my power; and that I will forever 'and- forever and for. ever, until the last breath shall leave my body, keep and preserve all secrets that may be imposed upon tme, even to ;stug- gling, when the good of the Order require, it;-binding myself under no less an obli- gation than to have, my wife eloped with, my mother-in-law become a member of my family, my bodily sufferings to be aggra- vated by advertised medicines, my de. dining days to be passed in a cheap board-     ing house, and my diet to be hash and baker's mince-pies. So help me, Joss, and stiffen up my backbone.'" "You swear it?'  "Yes: I take it all in. Go ahead!" "Slowly; they stumble who run fast. Now, the first duty that we impose upon you, or, rather, the first lesson that we give you, is reflection-the great governor, leveler, and modifier of the world; the check-rein of greatness ;" "and the sheet- anchor of society," said the other old roodiri taking a hand in. '.trder that your reflections may not in  ' way be disturbed-that you may ha* .: una oen view over the past, and, pI em son: A  ilimpses of the future-we i' pLrace gyu in a room alone by yourself, tiayou maythere commune with your- ?i say, old man, no joke?"I asked, pull. "g4own the lid of my east eye.  if Stranger, wittin our gates we never jokei replied the most solemn rooster of the two.. "But -do you pretend to tell me that I am in the process of being made an Odd- Fellow "  "You most. assuredly are." "It's the oddest way of getting at a thing that I ever experienced. But I sup- pose it's all right." t You will find it so, and you will allow us to volunteer a word or two of recom- mendation at tiis stage of the affair: Take whtver comes, and ask no questions; it will be much the best for you." "That is all right, much obliged. But just at this point allow me to ask you one question more. Am I to be put through all of the degrees to-night?" "No: but we will' make you eligible for them all before you get through."   -"Oh! you propose to get me-into ' suitable condition'; that is,get up. an ap- petite so that I can order whatever I have the money to pay for hereafter, ehl?"   But henceforth I am dumb b lead me on to the sacrifice." My two conductors exchanged glances, and then they motioned me to follow   Mt. BAXTER Id PLACED IN A PRIV-ATE Bt"M, WHER IE 13 TOLD TO "REFLECT" ON THE PAST AND PBESENT.   "Yes: that is about how it is; although you do not put it in the regular form." "Well, that may convince you that I am something of an Odd-Fellow already.   them. This I did without any re uctancv, so firmly convinced had I become that they had only a light charge in store for me. They led the way to' a small ante-room,   furnished somewhat oddly At one side stood a round table upon w ch there was a large bowl. A glass stood b the side ofit, and achair was placed invitingly thefront.   what is before you: we will come for you anon." With this they withdrew, and closed the door, leaving me alone. I glanced around.   MR. BAXTER DRESSES HMSELF FOR TIIE LODGE-ROOM, AND SU::VEY.3 H8ISE LF WITH PLEASURE. A       I   "Be seated in tAat chair, and give way to reflection ; remember all your former hardness of heart; see the ways wherein you have erred, and contemplate I   It was not a bad place to lbe in by any manner of means. I looked to see what that huge bowl contained. It was abo-t: half-full of a pale-red liquid, upon the su:- 6    face of which floated several slices of lemon and orange. A ladle was placed handily by; and, glancingaround tomake sure that I was really alone, I dipped out alit o f it into the glass, and tasted it. An involuntary smack of my lips fol- lowed. It was a very fair article of punch. I seated myself at the table, and began to reflect: Was this placed here for a snare? Did they think to test my stability aginst temptation, and were ees watching me fromn sme unseen hole? I pondered. Did /they not tell me to. contemplate what was before A6  To be sure they di4ai d -in what way could I do it so effet i  by tasting' it -At' all evenrIristoed to place such an interpreltiofn uiiot their recommendation, and so- helped myself to ,',nother glass of the punch. By jingoes! thought I, this isn't a bad commencement. I believe this is just the kind of an order I have always been look- ing for-p eh on the start! What would they give/me to contemplate before I got throughl?  I dipped out still another glass; -i fact, I dipped\in like a veteran. You see this was no initiation to me so far; for I had been through with it many times before. I believed what Podger had told me about invalids going through with the initiation several times in succession for the benefit of their health. a Just as I'was getting right down to the "contemplation" of the fourth glass, the door opened, and in stepped the two brothers who had me in' charge. "Have you meditated?" "Yes: that is,. I got pretty well to go. ing when'you came in.' "Have you contemplated   on every- thing " ",Yes. on everything before me, and I   must say that it isn't bad," I replied, smacking my lips. "Tis well: now you must:prepar togo into the presence of the Nabob Grand and the lodge." "I am ready." "Place your hat upon your Read, and this sash over your neck." I did precisely as requested. "Now, come this way, and contemplate yourself." I followed into still another small room, which was furnished quite scrumptiously. A large mirror enabled me to see myself about as tief others saw me; but they could not fel as I felt, unless they had 'a6 had some of that punch to " contemplate." A huge sash it was that encircled my neck, and reached nearly to my knees; and I fancied, as I glanced at my reflection, that they didn't:ofton get a better-looking victim than I was. But 'my reflections were cut short by the guides, who. took me by either hand, and conducted me into the lodge-room. The sight was novel to me; for an odder- looking lot of mortals I never beheld before. No two of themn  were dressed alike. The majority of them wore the most hor- rible-looking masks that were ever made, while their bodies were covered with tights, spangles, bhlts, and notched jackets. A few were still in citizen's clothes, but nearly all wera masked beyond recognition. Es- pecially .was this the case with the officers, and, like the Indians, they seemed to in- dulge in hidiousness in'proportion to their rank. At one end of the room sat the Nabob Grand, with a nose fully a foot in length, upon which rested a pair of-eye g!asees about three inches in diameter. His head -\   was ornamented with a close fitting cap, to which were attached a pair of fiendish- looking wings. The Vicious Grand was only a trifle less devilish looking, and so on down to the lowest officer, who stood ready to take partiin the exercises. i I glanced around the room, and, from the amount of machinery which I saw, I began to think that the course of sprouts' in store for me wasn't quite so mild, after all. -Possibly, the punch that they had allowed me to meditate upon was to brace me up for what was to follow.      : I confess that the idea made some im- pression on the cords of my legs, and took every thing kittenish out of ihe. But I. was in for it, and so I reached down deep for my best courtae and  sticking point to hang it upon.  Th   d me straight up before the Nabob Tr  w  ho looked at me very much as a  ,o d look on a mouse.  "What barbarian havt  ou here, broth- ers?" he asked, in a deep, sepulchral voice. "One whom the lodge has elected to become acquainted with our mysteries," they replied.     '  Is hle ready, and has he good nerves " ( He is ready, aud has contemplated." "'Tis well: stand him on hishead!" / Before I was aware of it,&ur burly ruffians seized and inverted me; while my conductors sloped, and left me to their mercy. This didn't look very playful. "Do you swear to preserve secrecy until , after death?" "I do," I replied. "And to be charitable, even with your last shilling?" "I' do.' "Starid 'him up again!" This. order being obeyed, I was once more placed upon my feet; although I had   almost too much to do to pull my head out of my hat, into w hich it had been driven.       / "Peel him! and prepare the chemicl bath, that we may brinto light his many hidden sis!" cried the Nabob. Fancy how such an order must have' affected my 'nerves The idea of being stripped, before the whole crowd Was bad enough, in all conscience; but to have all my hid  sin shrought out was too much --too inch!       ' But it didn't. appear to be too much for them, and so at mejhey went; and in less tite than it takes me to write it, they had me as naked as when I came into the world. In the meantime, f long bench supported on trucks was rl lea into the middle of the room; and everybody was hurrying hither and yon, each preparing something for my Vspecial benefit. Goodness! this looked like mild treat- ment-good for invalids!  Confound' that Podger - if I could only -get at him now, how I would exercise my muscle on him I Well, there I was, and no mistake. When every thing was in position, they placed me face down upon this bench or table,'and fastened' me securely, during which time I heard the clip of shears, and- got into an awful perspiration on accouit of it. What were they doing? I soon learned.. They had cut out a piece of parchment whose outlines corre- sponded with the gure of a man. Then they bqgan to p/ur something warm and biting'upon  person from a watering- pot, uri j   h the Nabob stood at my head, holding a bottle of something dread- fully pungent, and asked me every now and then if I felt very charitable, and like shellipaiut for' the good of the Order. I -     r   i   e       tol^^ACo hiaritable I felt-youl bet , Sf  er, they had wet me down fwe 'I He?,  t " t his parchment.-overlme. Goq  .eii'! It expected it was a huge, bl"fs  i tiIt wan?'t much short of thati Thef  eeg: begean to slap me, and to press the ;' .hhit closely upon my skin, which smat&rreburns. "W'hati/e devil are you about2?"I asked, at length. "Taking a fansfer of your hidden sins and shortcomings. Keep perfectly quiet, thatmwnmayget a good impression." O -Oord, wasn't it awful! ".ave you got them all out?" asked the Nabob. ' Yes: here they are," replied my tor- -mentors, peeling the parchment from my body.  "You have been put through our chem- ical bath, which, causes the principal sins of your life to appear upon your skin in black ink; and by placing this parchment ipon them, and pressing as we have done, we are enabled to transfer them to it. We thent wash your body, and all traces dis- appear, save what we .have obtained upon the;parchment, which we lock in the secret archives for future reference; and, if a brother gets to talking too loud about his good qualities, we hold it up before him, that. he may read!" By this time I had been washed and sponged off, and allowed to take a recum- bent. position. They bought the man- shaped parchment forward for my inspec- tion, while somebody threw a blanket over my shivering frame. I gazed wonder- ingly upon the document-for document it now most assfuredly was-and read, corn- eneing :at the ,p :-"Go in for. roit, no matter how!" &' S   my .vote in the   Told lies too/" Owe about., eon Wagedi-4   ^eyy t3 b /one Undired an Wm  sand bthare  "  Glot a ew in a aikF onable oahurc am . blindl!" Gjot yft, tho lllar 'Ur - nwoney!" "V:td      mO fourteen timns, and lt 1  o t Aerrin party at the same time n!"O/ive Bt poor rnrely forejfct!" etc., etc. NQow, up to this time I had considered myselt quite a :nod4el man; but there it was all' in black .and white against me now, and it mtde me feel sick. "RfBiimberfr*om this moment that you are in our power; and if, you attempt to withhold any secrets from us, we shall put you into the bath again!" "Oh! I am all yours," 1 replied, between my chattering teeth. "Assist im to dress! Let the organ strike up to call attention from the opera- tion!" ibiis being complied with, I began to get into my clothes, while this "OQld- Fellows' Drawing-room Car," as they called it, was rolled out of the way, and all hands were busy putting up something else. "I say, Nabob! would it be irregular for me to 'contemplate' again: I feel awful shivery," said T. At his command I -was taken to the "contemplating" room, where I finished dressing, and warmed up. a bit. It was awful the way they had gone on with me, and I felt sore about it. I looked sharply to see if I could see Podger; but the rascal was hidden behind a mask, and I couldn't tell him from a sideo f sole leather. "Isn't this 'a trifle rough?"I asked of one of the' brothers who came up to "contemplate."   No," said ie, sipping the punch: "I call it, quite smooth;" -      - "I miean. this initiation." "Well, I don't lmow! we always com- mence with the- mildest things first, so that the candidates may get used to it before we come down hardest," he replied, draining his glass, and vanishing from the room. "Good heavens! Commence with their mildest--do they?  Where is that Pod- ger?"I muttered. While- trying to either get my courage up or to find a place to get well out of the place, two masked devils seized and hur- ried me up-stairs. Opening a door which led into a small room, I found eight or ten people there, who, like myself, appeared to be neophytes undergoing the same otirse of sprouts that I was sweltering through. Closing the door behind, they looked it, and opened another which led into: adark inclined viaduct. Where the deuce it led to was a mystery. I suggested to several of those who appeared to be my com- pagnons de voyag/e, that we revolt, and re- fuse to be taken in any further than we were already; but they hissed at the prop- osition, and cried, "Onward to the last!" All right! My life-was well insured, and I had just as lief go onward to the devil, if the rest were going; so I entered the tunnel with them. What followed is better shown in the illustration than it can be portrayed by words. We groped our way along, and at last came to the mouth of it, and found ourselves astride of a greased plank, along which we slid in a very uncertain state, until at last we arrived at what appeared to be the bottomless pit. The devil stood at the 'mouth of it, with a brake in one hand, ready to let us' all in, if it so pleased him.   "Strangers, you have arrived at the mouth of the bottomless pit. A movement of my hand will precipitate you all beyond the regions of hope; and, to avoid such a' fate, you must raise me one. hundred dol- lars between you!" Various were the movements and expres- sons amoing my fellow-victims; but by some unaccountable coincidence, they had all- left their money at home, and were competely dead-broke. There wasn't a six- pence among the whole lot. But rather than have such a fate. befall them, I con- cluded to bleed for the party; and going down into my breeches, I produced the change and His Satasic Majesty lifted us safely from our awkward position, and transfeir-us to still another room. Frowkt'place I was taken alone, and again 'i    to the- lodge-room. I be- gan torsee those other chps were only "blind; "-decoy-duck to kep me agoing.  Being taken once more befe the Nabob Grand, that functionary open conversa- tion. "Has he escaped the bottomless pit?" "He has!" replied the conductor: "he saved himself and .his fellow-travelers who passed through the Viaduct of Despair, by paying the ransom demanded by the Father of Evil, which his fellows could riot pay."  "Tis well! Let i it be recorded in the Seventh Book, among the Nobles and Dis- tinguished, that this brother in tWe hour of extreme peril saved not only his own mut- ton, but the bacon of his fellow-travelers?' A smart blow upon a large gong brought my hair to a stand, and made me think of more than they had brought out upon the parchment. This half-gown clap of thunder always occurs whenever they open the covers of the great Seventh'Book   "Mr. Baxter, do you  still feel char- itable?"' ' Yes: buit you have cleaned me out." "Will you give us your check for the benefit of our.-widows and orphans?' i    ,    ,s   other score, I think I should have refused them; but I always did like to do some- thing for widows, aind so, being; conducted to the secretaries' desk, I signed a check for the amount mentioned. ,I    o ,   MB. PAXTER IN THE PRESENCE OF THE ODD-FhLILOWS' ANGEL. SHE ROBES HmI TYICALLY FOr PRESENTAlION TO THE BlIETHREN.   "Oh, yes! for how much?" "( Make it a' thousand this time," he re- plied, carelessly. Good heavens! wasn't this rather ex- pensive? ' If they had asked for it on any   "Now, sir, it has long been a custom among Odd-Fellows to strip themselves to the very hide, in the name of charity. Are you willing still further to show how ortlhy you are of becoming a great and   glorious Odd-Fellow?" asked -the Nabob Grand.   .  '  "I dare do all becoming the noblest of them," I replied. "Hark, brothers! He is made of good material, and has lots of the right kind of stuff. Strike the deepest intoniator of approval!" (at whidh somdbody kbaked that Yong again). "'Let thi Goddess of Music sweep her nimble fingers over the hugag!" ( M ic on cI banjo in one of' thf ante-   rooms.) "Let the great moribund mor- bidizer peel!" (and the oIganist flung hinm. self upon the organ). "Let the hearts of Odd-Fellows respond!" at which all hands yelled, "Bullyfoxr Bater!" "' Worthy Vicious Grand, take a hack at him," said the Nabob, motioning me away in the direction of his assistant. The conductor put me right-about-face, and trotted me over to the other end of   the room; where the secondary devil sat enthroned. "Mr. Baxter, how are your teeth?" he asked peremptorily. "Oh! they do very well ,for ordinary grinding," I replied. "How is your general health?" "Pretty fair."   - "Are you happily married?" "About as well as they will aver-   "Have you accustomed your wife to your being out nights?"    i "Never have had much  xperience out since marriage." "Are you willing to so accustom her for the good of the Order?" "I will try." "He will play it on his wife like a good Odd-Fellow!" shouted the officer; and it was repeated by the others one after   Ma. BAXTER AS IIE APPEARED WiEN TAKES FROM THE PURIFIOATION-TANIM.    anothers and, as a finishing touch, some- body again kicked that infernal gong. "If uriO rder was at war with Musons, or the Knights of Pythias, would you, like a-true Undlyal! Odd-Fellow, liein ambush, and steal into the camp of the enemy for the good oftheeOrder?" "I most assuredly would," I replied, proudly. "Hark, brothers! He would 'le and eteal for the good of the Order t" This was repeated as before, and finished off with the gong, after which the entire crowd shouted in concert, "Bully for Baxter!" "Thus far, you have proven satisfactory. Go on. in your bold and high-toned career, and you will come out all right. Pass on!" Fromrhere I was 'taken to an ante-room (what a lot of ante-rooms they did have, to be sure!), furaished somewhat sump tuously, and hung with tapestry. "You will please disrobe," said my at.. tendant. "Which?" was my meek inquiry. "Peel! 'You will then dress in this cos- tume,t he added, pointing to a pile of duds which lay upon a chair. I hesitated, .and glanced around. On the table there was a mask, shaped like the 1head of a jackass. I wondered if I had got to appear in that; in short, I was slightly fiustrated, and a great deal put about over what I had thus far endured. But, concluding that what man has done man may do, I began to peel. off my toggery. When I had stripped to the inner skin, he handed me a pair of short breeches, and I drew myself into them.. .Then I placed a pair of sandals oi my No, -12 feet, ater which 'a red ;pointjjaket; and a cloak protected my upper works.   "Now, then, I .will leave you to the 'Odd-Fellows' Angel," said my attendant moving toward the1 door.  "The which?"I asked.    . "Behold!" he said, pointing to an oppo- site door, while he vanished from another. I glanced in the direction. indicated. The figure of a most beautiful woman, dressed like. i fairy, followed by a poodle- dog and a cat, was approaching me. Good- ness gracious, how my heart went! Was she about to impart the finishing touches to my initiation? Whew! now, isn't this jolly I said to myself, as I comprehended tie fact that we were in a room alone together. She was, indeed, an angel; and, under the circumstahcesI could iot doubt but that she was a gernuine Odd-Fellow's angel. I chuckled over the-delightful turn that affairs had taken, and could now under- stand why invalids went through with the initiation ceremonies fr their health. I mentally resolved "to take it in at least once per week as long as I lived. She approached, or it seemed to me that she floated, toward me. I held my breath and tried to look happy. "Mortal, will you promise " she asked, in a silvery tone. "Promise!-why, I will swear to any- thing you require. of me." "Better still. You have sworn to be charitable,: will you make good your words by giving me your clothes, and all that you have of value about you, for the benefit of the poor?" ; "Take everything--take me!"'I ex- claimed. "I will; for all good Odd-Fellows be- long to me'" "Oh! you are anuangel general for the Order, eh? Are you married?"   "Yes, to the Brotherhood!" "Happy Brotherhood! Are any of the members allowed to have private angels?" I asked, looking my sweetest. "Would you have one?" satiricallys "Wouldn't I, though!"      f) "Beware! You have one at home. In her eyes you look like the epitome of good- ness. Behold how you look in the eyes of outside angels!" she said, placing the jack- ass's head over my face, and turning me around to a mirror. ' Strange how sheepish a man feels when he sees himself resembling a jackass. 'I felt sorry for what I had said. But she fastened the mask upon my head, and placed something over my right hand that resembled an ass's fore-hoof. "Why decorate me thus, sweet angel '? I asked, with timid sweetness. "That others may know what I found you to be," she replied, calmly. "Rather anl odd disguise, arn't it?" "' Well, I have found you to be an Odd- Fellow." "And you think this makes us even?" "It will assist. Here,'take this thistle in your left hand, and await events," she said, handing me the prickly: bouquei, at the same time stamping upon 'Te floor with her pretty foot. The door opened, and my attendant ap- peared.  "Present him before the brothers, that they may see the seal that I have set upon him. Adieu!" saying which, she touched my mask with her wand; while her poodle- dog yipped, and the cat purred good- naturedly against my leg. Turning away, she vanished like a graceful shadow or a hope of rich relations dying, and we were left alone. Without answering me when I asked   him what the deuce all -this nonsense was e about, he took me by the arm, and trotted me into-and around the lodge-room for the inspection of the assembled brethren. After keeping up this trot until I was wellnigh out of breath, he halted me in front of -the Nbob Grand. - "What means this masquerading?" he demanded, savagely. '"Our angel decorated him, that we might know what he most resembled in his longings and desires," replied the con- ductor. "Baxter, what proposition did you make to our angel:!" asked the Nabob, with ter- rible solemnity. "Well, I:simply asked' her if Odd. Fellows wie permitted to have private anges," I replied. "VUiin! ' Lecher! Goat! Donkey!" howled tie Nabobiiing to his feet, while : evebody ele also stood up. "You have offended our guardian angel. How dare you, sir, thzs betray your nature? Odd- Fellows ar all honest men-all honest i single-feem ad men -all married men! When we 0nd that one has departed from the paths of rectitude, we give him to a - skillful igsueon, and appoint a committee to see'th his betrayed wife does n t suffer. . Aaunt! quit my sight; for thou art fitly decorated." They were about to run me out amid the imprecations of the assemblage, when the Vicious Grand threw himself before me, and commanded a halt. "Hold  most worthy Nabob Grand. Baxter is but human. To er is human; to forgive, divine. Let us show our su- periority by giving him a ducking." "Agreed!" shouted all hands, amid much excitement.  "Good!" said the Nabob. "Awaywith t ,     him! Call in the water-men, and let the evil tht is within him be washed away in ice.*ater. Begone-!" That settled it; and they rushed me out   into another ante-room provided with a large tank. Hastily stripping my clothes from me, they tumbled me into the water, without the slightest regard to my bodily   MR. BAXTER TAKES THE IRON-CLAD, T[I-ROOF OATH BEFORE THEI SACRED ALTAR OF ODD-FELLOWSHP.   temperature, or physical capacity for water. When I got my head above the surface, they poked me with spears, and made me dive again. Then they welted me over   the head with stuffed clubs, and inflated bladders attached to the end of a stick by a short string. I yelled for mercy, and at length they    .   desisted. Then two solemnnlooking negroes came in with a water-barrel, supported by two long handles. on either side of- it. This they placed by the edge of the tank, and proceeded to fish me out, after which I was put into the barrel, already provided with about three bucketfuls of water; even colder than that in the tank. Taking up the- barrel, these funereal-   looking Odd-Fellows, don in ebony, marched into the lodge-room with me, and carried me several times around for the inspection of the brethren. Now, wasn't this a trifle rough--just because they' found out that I was only human!-I thought so. "Are you better now?" asked the Nabob, as they sat me down before his throne.   - M. BAXTER ENACTS THE CHARItCTlR OF "TuE- WANDERING MNBTREL," ASSISTED BY THE MEMBBEIS OF THE LODIE. ,    ( "I wish I was able to be out," I replied, A-vith a dash of Stoughton bitters in my tone. i "You shall be' eleased but let this be a warning to you never again to forget yourself; let your future actions be as chaste as our angel's and as cold as the water in: whichl you ;now crouch. Take him. away, :and &iut 'him in nuiform!" You mray bet, understandingly, that 1   was glad to get out into a warm ante-room, and to have those darkies rub me off. I yearned for that uniform which the Nabob had alluded to; and if it was ever so sum- mery in its texture, it would be better than bare hide, which in my case was just no hide at all, from the rude gaze of the brethren.. What if that angel should walk in!   After they had rubbed me off, and stood me up, before a stove to dry, one of -them handedmine a glass of brandy. I took it raw, concluding, that I had already taken water enough. Then they placed a sort of a demi-devil's cap on my head, and gave'me an ordinary pair of overalls wlewiwth to hide my hide, after which they withdrew with their blasted old water-barrel, and left me alone. I was dead-broke at that moment; but I would have given fifty dollarsto. have laid my hands uponFpQdger. Confound the fellow! Was this the' mild initiation that he spoke of? If this was Masonry toned down, what must Masonry be in its raw state?. While cogitating upon this conundrum, the door opened, and the conductor, who had led me into and through so many tribulations, presented himself. "I say, young man, let me out of this, and I'll pay you well for it. I've got enough ohis kind of a thing." "I sfiould wdrwn and quartered if I did." "The deuce you would! But, I say, haven't I got about through? Aren't they about satisfied " "Yes: you are now about to be taken before the Great 'Altar, where the iron- clad, tin-roofed oath will be administered, after which a few more mild lessons will be given, and then you are all light!" "Mild lessons, eh! I think I have learned what mild lessons are. But never mind: my life is well insured, and I am reckless. Go on-go on!" He locked arms with me, and we again entered the lodge-room. Everything was serene and lovely: not a sign of sorrow or regret was to be seen on any'of the masks before me.   "Baxter-one more test-of; your courage a. and, adhesive qualities, and we shall be t satisfied. -Are you ready to meet, it?" i asked,the labob.. "Well, draw it mild, gentlemen, if you s can do, so as well-as not: for I feel some- what shaky," ILreplied, "Mount him '". shouted the Nabob. Thunder and blazes! what did that' mean? They were so much in a hurry that conundrums didnli'ave a fair show; for, before I was aWaiof what was intended. the, seized and placed me upqn the back of a wild boar,*whose bristles were sharp and stiff enough-to make shoemaker's awls of. I howled with pain; but they only laughed at me. Placing the reins in one hand and an anchor in the other, the Vicious Grand told me to cling to Hope, of which the anchor was the emblem, and to go it! They gave the boar a jab with a spear, and he started on a run up an inclined plane, which led to an elevated race-course which. went entirely around the lodge-room. Talk about Masonic goats! why, they are equestrian luxuries compared with the animal which Odd-Fellows make use of to test an initiate's courage. Goodness gracious I how he did everlastingly git up and git around the ring! I thought my time had come, and that it was also very fast time. To make matters all the more lively for me, they followed my charger around, and kept stirring him up with spears, if he showed any inclination to slacken his pace. At length, however, all hands appeared to have satisfied their spite against me, so the boar was allowed to come down, and I to dismount. I felt that I should not be able to sit down again for a   month. O for a chanee at' Podger!-Damn Podger!  "Baxter, youm -ie -proven yourself a trump. I congratulate you upon. your fortuate d g" I thditght to myself that it was a -great :deal too inib I "Present him h fore" tthe rt Altar : of O^ -Ewlowshipi-.  .we may heal his w$iind iAd ba  'fiir doubts regard- ig'lihim,e" cu ,  e Nabob -Grand.  I  eas now  ^te4i4 t i ftre of ikb,iom where,' 'the top-Of *1Si jllhedel  a fire,; al ver the fire a te4 the w& :steaming, Ahe Vicious e ra. iow took chfi,  e;! In my left B'nd  placed a h uge-eotton um- brfla,ion one end of 4riTch ignge three -syiniblo links; in this instanhce were coomap6ed of fresh sausages.  "AXl 'redy! Nabob Grand," said the assistintdevil, after he had placed me in position. The Nabob approached me with Tarquin strides to administer THE IRON-CLAD, TIN-ROOF OATH. "Hold aloft your right hand! Repeat the following oath after me, inserting your name after the. proteun' l. Now, then: 'I, Eli Baxter, of my own free -ijll and accord, feeling happy in so doing,-do prom-. ise and swear, by'the umbrella which I hold in. my left hand, and tie three links suspended thereon, that I iil. never di- vulge the ser ets which I have learned in this initiation; that I will give those out- side of the Order to understand that our ways are ways of pleasantness, and that our paths are paths of peace and super- lative unctionaess; that I will assist in givihngto others what,has been given to me; that I will always be good to widows,   and ouy coraballs and candy .or orphans; that I will and Odd-Eellowship against allomers, and do my best to prove it to be more ancient than Freemasonry, and not half so rough or expensive; that I will pay liberally, and say but Jittle ;,that I will take all the degrees if I feel like it, and pay cash foi the same,-binding myself under 'io less an obligation than to have my fires go out, and my pot cease boiling; :my pockets to run dry, and my wife to run away; and I to be turned out of the Order -with the mark of a cane on my forehead. Amen."  &. pn:se by the brethren, "Bully for '"-s, e entitled to the password and signs?"- asked he 'Nabob, going to his throne,-and leaving me with the Vicious. "Not yet," suggested several. Goodness heavens! what now? I men- tally asked. 'BRemove him to the ante-room, and re- turn him -as the Wandering Minstrel!" I confidently believe that I should have committed suicide had I been able to have found the means; for the thought that they weren't done with me t 'made me utterly discouraged. Well, they 'allowed me a slight change of raiment. On my head they put a night- cap, and upon my body they-placed a long dressing-gown that reached nearly to the floor. And what should they give me for an instrument wherewitkfo complete my make-up as-a minstrel but that everlast- ing gong that had annoyed me so muchal- ready! -A healthy old Wandering Minstrel, wasn't I? They then directed me to enter the lodge-room-beating it loudly-and to fol- low slowly along on the left-hand' side, and await developments. I did as directed;   but didn't have to wait long for the devel- opments. "Put him out!" "Dry-up!" "Git!" "Skip!" and other encouraging remarks greeted me from a row of ante-rooms that I was passing. Presently the doors were opened, and the occupais thereof looked out and repeated their: complaints, and then threw old' shdes, blacking-bottles, etc:, at me.    "This washealthy exercise - dodging this way and that to avoid a broken head; and, just as I was on the point of rushing away, the Nabob commanded the fun to cease, and I was again placed before him. "This is to teach you that you cannot always depend' upon your own ex- ertions to please, and that the feelings of 6thers are to be respect ed quite as much' as your own. I will now give you the Grand Hail- ing Sign and the Word. The hailing   sign is given thus: You must stand erect, and fold your arms behind you. This, of course, will not attract the attention of anybody but an Odd-Fellow. If one is near, and is not near-sighted, he will at once approach you, and ask, "What is up, friend?"You will reply, "The mouth of the bag." He will then ask, "What does that bag contain?" You will eply,! A   cat," all of which will signify that 'the secrets of the Order are still secure. He will then extend his left hand, and you will do the same, grasping in the ordinary way. He will then ask, "WJIat is this9" You will ply, "A shake." He asks again, "What aind of a shake?" and you reply, "Three Aixes." You will then be sure of each other, and can venture to borrow or lend money.   T'e password that will admit you into. any lodge in this jurisdiction is, Shell2Out! When vi- siting a lodge where you are not well ac- quainted, .you ap proach the hole in the door, and whis- per, Shell Out! and the tyler will reply, SheUll.1! and open thedoortoyou. The other signs, grips, and passwords will be given you with the Green, Yellow, Vermilion, and Sal- mon Color Degrees. Now We6 will give you a chance to breatheandpractice with the brethren."   Well, this was a relief indeed. But, ac- cording to my best judgment, they must have exhausted, their stock of wrath by this time, and I fondly believed that Ishould yet escape with my usual number of bones, all whole.. I proceeded to fraternize with the breth-  ren. One after another of them, all but Podger, came up to me unmasked and   TaE ODD-FELLOWS' ANGEL-WHAT BAXTER SAW AS HE PASSED THE ANTE-.OOM DOOR. I.   shook me cordially by the hand, and on- gratulated me on getting through all r/gM. Podger -avoided me, and I guess he was right in doing so.- Yes, they congratulated   me. I congratulated mIyself, if/I remember rightly.   I   / Then we retired to the ",meditation room " dnd " meditated " over the remains   MR. BAXTER, AS HE APPEARED EMERGING FnBOM THE LODGE AFTER HAVING BECEIVED , THE FINISHNG TOUCHES -AT THE HANDS OF THE ODDI-FIOLOWs.   of that punch-bowl. It was right jolly, and I tried to appear as jolly as any of them, although my jollityworked hard. But presently the sound of that infernal   Chinese music-box, the gong, startled all hands from their meditations, and a rush was made back to the lodge-room, where we found the Nabob .Grand unmasked, st    ,   seated upon his throne, and looking very much like almost any other mor- tal. After silence had been demanded at the   MR. BAXTER CREATES A SENSATION IN HS HOU-EIOLU ON HS RETURN FROM BERING INITIATED,   point of the gavel, I was again taken be- fore him for the final touches. "t Brother Baxter,-for such you now are," said he, (" it becomes my pleasant dult'^^ , I   smooth the rough, places, and apply a few touches of lard to ' those points where the skin may have been knocked off during the initiation. The lessons that you have not   learned you will picd up during your at- tenrlance at future meetings and workings of the lodge. At present you doubtless consider that you  have received )IVr   money's worth; but you are scarcely. through with your trials yet. In order to prove. yourself a well-made, made-to-order Odd-Fellow, you must return home in your present garb." Good heavens! Why, I only had a pair of overalls on and an old odd pair of boots. Go home to Lucy Kate in such a costume as that? What would she say? "You will find a carriage waiting for you at the door, so that your wife may not immediately realize on your life policy. As a parting gift, I present you with a copy of our rules, regulations, and by-laws, printed large and bound in calf. This must be your daily study, as it must also be the only thing of value which you take away from the lodge where you have been made an Odd-Fellow. Now, then, you are at liberty to go," he said, handing me the huge volume. I took a seat among the brethren, and witnessed the forms and ceremonies attend- the closing of the lodge. I think that portion of the programme is a success. On going out of the lodge-room, I found the carriage in waiting as the Nabob Grand had promised, and I was not long in get-   ting into it and telling the driver where to take me, for I began to feel goose-fleshy. Now, it happened that Lucy Kate gave a party that night, and they weie at its feeding apex when I entered the house. My appearance made a sensation. Lucy Kate and. several of her friends, together with a servant or two, were passing through the hall with some refreshments just as I came in. They all screamed just as all women do, dropped their dishes, and ian yelling in among the guests, while I ran up-stairs as fast as my legs would carry, me. No one knew me, and; supposing I was ,an escaped lunatic, they called for the police, armed themselves, and came up to mny room. But in the meantime I had lpnt on clothes enough to make me look like myself, and eventually convinced my wife that I belonged in the house. But it broke up that party, the excitement did. Well, this is about all I have to tell, al- though I never got a wink of sleep that night until I had told Lucy Kate much more than is herein contained. But, confi- dent that what I have here disclosed will ruin the Order that neaily ruined me, I sub- scribe myself, Happily yours, ELI BAXTER.   FINIS.    
         
       
   
