
    ----CITATION----
        Myers, P. Hamilton (1812-1878). Bell Brandon ; and the Withered Fig Tree .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7310
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               BELL BRANDON; 
               AND THE WITHERED FIG TREE. 
               A PRIZE NOVEL. 
               FOR WHICH THE PROPRIETORS OF THE PHILADELPHIA DOLLAR NEWSPAPER PAID THE PREMIUM WHICH WAS AWAEDED FOR IT, OF THREE HUNDRED DOLLARS!!! 
             
            COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME. 
            
               Philadelphia: 
               T.B. PETERSON, No. 98 CHESNUT STREET  
                     ONE DOOR ABOVE THIRD. 
                  
               
             
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1851, by T.B. PETERSON In the Office of the Clerk of the District Court of the United States, in and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 
          
       
      
         
            Bell Brandon ; and the withered fig tree 
             
                
               BELL BRANDON. 
               A TALE OF NEW YORK IN 1810. 
               THREE HUNDRED DOLLAR PRIZE STORY! 
                
                  CHAPTER I. 
                  IT was the boast of Mrs. Kentrips through a long and not over useful life, that she had, a will of her own, and she took especial care that it should never be unnecessarily thwarted. It is said there is iron in the human blood, and some ingenious calculations have been made to show what tiny things might be manufactured out of the ferruginous particles which circulate through the veins of a single person; but whatever the average product of such experiments might be, it would be safe to make an extra allowance for the yield of Mrs. Kentrips, to the extent, perhaps, of a small crowbar. Certain it was, she had an iron will, which entreaty could seldom move, and opposition never. Her husband had died of it, it was said, at the age of thirty-five; an only daughter, discarded for marrying according to her own taste, instead of her mother's, had also been its victim, and at the age of sixty, the unfriended woman still hugged her will and her wealth, for she was rich, and wondered at the perverseness of human nature. 
                  She was rich by the force of singular circumstances, for her husband, having early betaken himself to the stormy sea, to escape bin more stormy fire side, had first, by his will, secured his fifty acres of marshy land to his wife, in the hopes, that it might diminish the danger of her pursuing him on the deep, whence the tidings of his "total loss" soon came back to his deserted spouse. The land was, at that time, of small value, but it was in the suburbs of the growing metropolis, and she had clung to it for support, until with the advancing years, it had been absorbed by the travelling city, intersected by its streets, and finally constituted her one of the millionaires of the town. Gold became her idol, and made her, in turn, the idol of many a fawning worshipper, prominent among whom were the family of her cousin Dibbs, a poor and proud race, eager expectants of future heirship, and shrewd and frequent calculators as to the way in which the old lady's estate would "cut up" after her decease. 
                  "It must come to us," said Dibbs, as in a breakfast table conversation with his wife, fee sat balancing his teaspoon upon the edge of his cup and imbibing the anticipation in lieu of more coffee, for it came cheaper, and was equally refreshing, "it must come to us at length; there is no one in the way, and the old girl-I'm sorry to say-wont last long. That asthma of hers is making rapid inroads upon her constitution. 
                  The speaker was a sleek-faced and double-chinned man of about fifty years, of middle height and somewhat stout, with iron gray hair, and a hard, stony eye, which softened at times, and seemed neither hard nor stony. 
                  "I don't know, my dear, what you mean by there being no one in the way," replied Mrs. Dibbs, a sharp featured woman, whose efforts to appear amiable were always counteracted by a slight scowl, which seemed to have taken a lease in perpetuity of her forehead; "there is Bell Brandon, her own grand-daughter, a designing insiduous girl, who we know stands ready to work herself back into the old lady's favor on the first opportunity. The artfulness of that girl can't be conceived." 
                  "Better imagined than described," as the paragraphists say, rejoined the husband with a facetious air; "yes, mercenary-mercenary all-it runs in that family, I think. Kentrips was one of that class, too, and if he had only known what a crop of streets and squares and three story houses his old marshy farm was going to produce, he would have been living, I verily believe at this day. But there is no, cause for apprehension about Bell; she lies under a double weight of disfavor, for she has not only taken by inheritance her mother's share, but she has created some new stock in the same fund in her own behalf, on which the dividends promise to be large." 
                  "Now you are at your tropes again, as you call them, and are likely to be vastly intelligible," replied Mrs. Dibbs, sharply, "and as to stocks, I know those who would do wisely never to meddle with nor speak of them after burning their fingers and all their family's-but we know Bell has been in favor and may be again, and even if not, she is the lawful heir, and there is no safety without a will, and so I have told you a thousand times, Mr. Dibbs." 
                  "I know it, my dear," returned the husband, who with practised sagacity had foreseen a domestic storm, and had vainly sought to draw off the leaven of wrath, by applying such a conductor to the cloud as the name of Bell Brandon usually proved, but the unfortunate simile of the stocks had partly frustrated his design-"I know that a will is necessary to protect our-rights; I am not without hopes, indeed, that such an instrument may have been already executed-but as to stocks, since you come to that, for you always do come to that, Mrs. Dibbs, I should like to know who urged me on to the 'Suspension Bridge,' who fairly pushed me into the 'Tunnel,' and who very nearly got me into the 'Hell Gate Company,' at, par, that's what I should like to know, Madam?' 
                  Dibbs' hat was close at hand, and he had his breakfast safely bestowed, and it was, therefore, that, although accustomed to be henpecked, he had given way to these courageous retorts, for his financial mishaps were sore spots in his memory, upon which his wife occasionally laid the lash of reproach with a nicety of touch that reflected great credit upon her discrimination. He was surprised, however, at his own mutinous language, and rose from the table, expecting to retire under a full discharge from the enemy, when an unexpected smile, playing around the vinegar lips of his spouse, arrested his attention and his steps. 
                  "I don't know any place where you would be more likely to be 'at par,' than in the company which you last named, Solomon," she said, amused by her own wit into a better humor, "but it is useless to cry for spilled milk, of to quarrel about who spilled it. Some men really haven't got it here, Dibby," she said, touching her forehead, "and therefore, they are not so much to blame; but-" 
                  "Madam!" interposed the husband with growing anger, and a faint assumption of dignity which he knew would be utterly disregarded. 
                  "Tut, tut, Dibbs, its of no use," replied the wife, quite undisturbed-"don't try to get up a quarrel now, but listen to reason. There is one stock that we know is good, and that is the Kentrips. Letitia was at the old lady's yesterday, and finding her in quite a communicative mood, learned the whole secret of her quarrel with Bell, which, by the way, I am afraid, is hardly serious enough to last." 
                  "Ha!" said Dibbs, with awakened curiosity, and seating himself to listen; "let's hear-perhaps it might be-" 
                  "That's what I was thinking of," replied the wife, something might be thrown in, perhaps just to open Aunt Polly's eyes more fully to the girl's disposition, and prevent her being cajoled; you know, into a reconciliation; Bell is so artful." 
                  "Yes, of course, that is what I meant-but the quarrel? You have not told me." 
                  "Oh, its about young Blake, the banker's son, who wants Bell, whom Bell detests, and whom her grandmother liked and encouraged and was determined should be the child's husband. She thought she had a right to dictate, for she had taken the girl out of compassion, notwithstanding her mother's life long disobedience." 
                  "For companionship rather than compassion, I guess," said Dibbs, "but that's neither here nor there." 
                  "Don't you interrupt with your foolish guesses; what is it to us whether her pity was real or assumed, whether she acted from generous, motives, or from regard to what the world would say at her leaving her grandchild to pine in indigence while she rolled in wealth. She took her, that's enough, and she has sent her home again to her poor father, which is still better for our purposes, I believe." 
                   
                  "Of course-of course-poor thing!" 
                  "Never you mind whether she is a poor thing or not; it isn't our fault; we are-not responsible for it, but if we can profit by it, we have a right to do so, and then we can compassionate her afterwards, if we choose, and assist her, too, if she proves deserving. I shouldn't mind making her governess to Miranda and Melissa. How nice it would be to have a governess, and Brandon might teach the boys, too, if he chose." 
                  After a little more conversation of this nature, Dibbs took his hat and Walked to his place of business. He did not feel as sanguine as his wife, of his prospect of inheriting the great Kentrips estate, but the possibility of such an event had long formed the staple of some of his, brightest day-dreams, and he now went a little out of his way to take a thousandth view of some of the stately blocks which he hoped would one day be his own. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER II. 
                  HUBERT BRANDON had descended by gradual steps into that vale of poverty, within the chill shadows of which so many a noble and gifted heart is doomed to pine. Illness, ill-judged applications of rare and even dazzling talents, together with some of those peculiar misfortunes which seem to waylay and entrap some men in every path of life, and which no prudence can foresee and no vigilance avoid, had combined to reduce him from a state of pecuniary ease to one nearly allied to indigence. He continued to nominally own the house in which he dwelt, yet was compelled to pay a heavy rent for its use, in the form of interest upon a mortgage, which rested like a cloud upon his roof, and which he saw no means of discharging. At the mercy of a not lenient creditor, he well knew that at whatever moment his dues of interest should fail to be promptly met, he would be dispossessed even of a home, and of that dear home which many associated memories rendered so precious in his estimation. 
                  He had been educated as a physician, but while ministering to the health of others, the failure of his own had broken up his practice, which he subsequently found it impossible wholly to regain. Though restored to comparative health, his impaired constitution forbade a dose attention to business, and he was compelled to see himself gradually outstripped in his profession by more hardy rivals, until, at the age of forty, he resolved to abandon altogether what had dwindled to little more than, a nominal employment. 
                  With the slender remains of his means, he embarked in commercial pursuits, which after several years of some profit and more promise, suddenly terminated disastrously and left him destitute. While looking forward to improved fortunes, an offered position in a counting-house house afforded him temporary employment and the means of subsistence, but years had rolled by without any favorable change, and he found himself, at the age of fifty, still the slave of the desk. 
                  In his thirtieth year, while his business gave him a reasonable prospect of independence, he had married Miss Kentrips, a young lady every way worthy of his love, and who proved her affection for him by sacrificing to it her mother's friendship, and all hope of ever sharing any of her great wealth. Two years only of wedded happiness were allowed him, and the loss of his beloved wife left him without a joy in life, beyond that derived from the contemplation and the caresses of an infant daughter, in whom, thenceforward, his heart was wholly centred. 
                  How beautiful she was, how graceful, sprightly, and affectionate, how her infantile charms grew with her growth, and expanded into maturity, without the loss of her childish innocence and purity, words would be marshalled in vain to describe. Let it suffice to say, that Hubert found that he had yet an object to live for, and for whose sake he was willing to endure what yet remained for him of life's painful trials. 
                  A total stranger to his incensed mother-in-law, with whom neither himself nor his wife had ever exchanged a word subsequent to their marriage, he indulged not the least hope of her befriending their daughter. While the latter was a child, they met but rarely, and only fortuitously, in the street, or at a neighbor's, and when Isabella, or Bell, as she was invariably called, reached the turning point between child and womanhood, it is not surprising that she turned that corner in the highway of her life, without the observation of her grandmother, and passed entirely beyond her recognition. 
                  It was about this period that they met at a party, where Mrs. Kentrips, with the privilege of age and wealth, addressed the beautiful debutante, and entered freely into conversation with her, without the least suspicion of her being a relative of her own. Bell was much embarrassed and frightened, but it was impossible for her to be other than engaging and pleasing in her manners, and she won rapidly upon the heart of her grand-parent, who persisted in retaining her for half an hour at her side, to the great annoyance of the beaux, until one of them, in accosting the young lady, pronounced the magic name of Brandon, and carried her off in triumph, before the other had recovered from the stunning effect of the word. She hastened to inquire of the hostess into the identity of her companion, and after learning the truth, became unusually taciturn and reserved, and retired early from the party, without as much as the coldest word of farewell to the especial object of her evening's civility. 
                  But it would not do. The barriers of her stubborn will for once gave way before the remembrance of her grand-child's exceeding beauty and gentleness. It was as if a wall of stone had been beaten down with roses. She sent, the next day, an invitation to Bell to come and see her, and Hubert, who loved his daughter too tenderly to stand in the way of her advancement, did not withhold from his permission to go. The interview was cordial, almost confidential on the part of the dame, who did not part from her new protege without forcing upon her acceptance some valuable presents, in antique jewelry, and exacting a promise from her that she, would return speedily, if her father would permit, for a visit of a month's duration. The visit was made, and was extended through a whole season, at the urgent request of the grand-dame, but not a day of all this time did Bell allow to pass without spending an hour or two under her father's roof. Mrs. Kentrips finally began to speak freely of making her young relative the heiress to her estate, and this came soon to be considered in the community quite a settled arrangement. 
                  Bell had received some addresses prior to the change in her prospects from Frank Halley, a young lawyer, of whom it is sufficient praise to say, that with promising talents and a fine person, he possessed a disposition as similar to her own as the difference of a manly spirit and highly but honorably ambitious views would permit. But like her also he was poor, excepting in the rich hopes of youth, and when the sun of fortune began to shine upon Bell, he no longer considered himself entitled to seek her smiles, and his attentions to her, which had not yet assumed a decided character, were entirely discontinued. About this time he was called to the bar, and availed himself of a favorable opportunity for beginning the practice of his profession in one of the towns on the banks of the Hudson, at a distance of fifty or sixty miles from the city. 
                  But now, of course, the admirers of Miss Brandon were numerous, and they were chiefly of the wealthy class of society, who might claim an equality of fortune with herself. Prominent among; these was the young Blakesly, of whom mention has been made, the only son of a very rich banker, whose pretensions to aristocracy of family weighed not lightly in the estimation of Mrs. Kentrips. She sat her heart on this alliance, and that iron will, which seemed for a time to have departed from her, grew again, like Sampson's strength, and fastened around this one idea with a tenacity which nothing could shake. Bell's opposition was nothing but obstinacy in her view, while, such is the deceitfulness of the human heart, her own immovable determination seemed only a commendable firmness. 
                  The sequel is already known. Bell was sent home in disgrace, and yet it was believed by many that the estrangement would be but temporary, and that the old dame, who had once so far overcome her pride as to make advances to her grand-child, would the more easily yield a second time to the promptings of her better nature. And such would doubtless have been the case, but for an Argus-eyed watchfulness, and a careful fanning of the embers of discord by those who were so deeply interested in preventing a reconciliation. 
                  In the heart of Hubert, grief for the obscured prospects of Bell was tempered by the delight of having, her once more at home, and scarcely less pleasure did her return afford to old Joe and Dinah, former slaves of Mr. Brandon, who had long since purchased their freedom, yet continued full as much slaves as ever; that is to say perfect masters of themselves, and in many respects of every body else in the house. 
                  To their one crippled lodger, a man of venerable but poverty stricken appearance, who had been admitted as an inmate of the family at a small stipend, the means of paying which he earned by some unknown occupation in the city-to old Mr. Agnew even, contemplative, lonely, and desolate of heart, was Bell's unexpected return also a source of delight, for notwithstanding her trials and disappointments, her bright smiles and glad voice diffused themselves on every side, and seemed to fill the house with joy. 
                  Oh, what a blessed gift of Heaven is that serene and ever cheerful temper, which enwraps its possessor as it were with the sunlight, and like the radiant cloud which followed the Hebrew camp in the desert, imparts its moving brilliancy to all beholders. Inappreciably valueless, in comparison with it, are all earth's hidden mines of gold, and all the lofty lures of place, and pomp, and power which this poor world offers to man's weak ambition. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER III. 
                  FOR several months Miss Brandon indulged the hope of a reconciliation with her grandmother, to whom she had become in no inconsiderable degree attached, and whose restored favor might prove ultimately so beneficial to her beloved parent; but a third of a year rolled by and still the olive branch of peace was not held out. Mrs. Kentrips had in reality passed into the keeping of the Dibbses, one or another of whom managed to be almost continually with her, ministering freely to her pride; and all her caprices of temper, and cautiously trampling down every returning germ of affection which manifested itself in her heart for the discarded Bell. 
                  But a great change was at hand with the haughty dame. The predictions of Dibbs in regard to her failing health proved to be well founded; her disease, which during the winter had received some dangerous accessions, increased with the advancing spring and early, in the month of April assumed a threatening character. Mrs. Dibbs and her daughter Letitia, by unremitting assiduities to the invalid had ingratiated themselves thoroughly into her favor, and had become her constant attendants, arid Solomon whose calls of inquiry were very many, was at length gratified on a bright May morning by the intelligence that the patient was fast sinking, and desired to make her will. She named a Mr. Miles, a legal gentleman of some note, as the one whom she wished to have called for this purpose, and requested Dibbs to procure his attendance without delay. 
                  Solomon lost no time in the execution of his commission, at least no more than was required to bestow a glance of exultation upon row of newly finished brick houses, part of the Kentrips estate, as he passed them, arid to wonder at the impassive and uninterested air which they maintained under such exciting circumstances, what with rapid walking and pleasing agitation, he entered the office of Mr. Miles in such a giddy state as set that worthy gentleman apparently whirling around like a top before him, while whole shelves of law-authors, "half calf," in the somewhat equivocal language of the bindery, were performing a rotary movement about the room, followed by troops of chairs and tables, and by a tall, open-chested desk, which he fully believed stood near the window upon his entrance, but which finally settled down in the opposite side of the room. 
                  Mr. Miles was an elderly man, rather stout, with eyes that must have seen by their own light, if they saw through the green double glasses that environed them both in front and laterally, and with a mouth so closely compressed as to convey the idea that he was afraid some word of legal counsel might slip out past recall before it was paid for. He was known as a deep lawyer, not brilliant, for he lacked grace and grammar, but decidedly deep. Indeed, Mr. Dibbs felt quite off soundings in his presence, and when he saw the huge goggles turned inquiringly toward him, and the upraised pen of the lawyer pointed at him, like a javelin ready to be cast, he was not a little disconcerted. But the inspiriting nature of his errand soon revived him, and assuming all his usual suavity of manner, he made known his business, with an Affectation of indifference which only betrayed more fully the deep personal interest which he felt in the subject of his communication. 
                  The lawyer listened with a business like air, made a hasty memorandum with his pen, and replied that he would call on the ensuing morning. I 
                  "To-day, if you please," replied Dibbs, unwilling to risk delay, "it is her wish and mine." 
                  "Ah, is it so urgent?" said Miles-"to-day it shall be then. I will go at once with you and procure the necessary memoranda," and taking hat and cane, he accompanied his eager client out of the office. 
                  They proceeded for some distance in silence, interrupted only by an involuntary burst of whistling on the part of the afflicted Dibbs, as he approached once more in view of (he Kentrips block, an ill-timed demonstration which he speedily and with some confusion checked. 
                  "There are some hopes, you know, of our good aunt's recovery," he said apologetically to his companion; "her physicians say that provided half a dozen things with long Latin names don't set in, and provided half a dozen others do, she will get well yet, and may long live to be a blessing to us." 
                  "Heaven grant it," replied the lawyer, much more solemnly than Dibbs thought there was any occasion for; "but who," he continued raising his goggles to obtain a better view of a young lady who approached the dwelling of the invalid at the same moment with themselves selves from an opposite direction, "who is this beautiful girl whom we are about to meet?" 
                  Dibbs, without replying to his companion, stepped nimbly in advance of him, and encountered Miss Brandon on the steps of the mansion just as the latter had sounded with a timid and hesitating air the old fashioned knocker on the door. 
                  "Dear me! dear me! it should have been muffled!" he said with a look of anguish; "don't, pray don't do that again; our venerated relative is very low, Miss Brandon, and must not be disturbed on any account. Repose is every thing to her just now, her physicians say, and that she must, above all things, avoid any agitating interviews." 
                  "I heard that grandmother was dying," replied the young lady, with a countenance of sweet ingenuousness, which proclaimed the impossibility of any sordid views existing in her heart; "I heard that she was dying, and have hastened to see her, although indeed, she has treated me very-I mean to say that she has been greatly offended at me. I should feel more happy to think that she had forgiven me, although I do not think I have been much in the wrong." 
                  "Of course not-of course not," replied Dibbs, it is a remarkable psychological fact that young ladies never do think themselves in the wrong; however, if you wilt call here at this hour to-morrow morning, Miss Brandon, we will try to arrange an interview for you-but not now, not now;" and Dibbs shook his head and sank his, double chin in his white cravat, with an air decidedly magisterial. 
                  "I will call then to-morrow," replied Bell, turning slowly away; "but please to tell grandmother that I have been here, for I should not like to have her think that I could harbor resentment under such, circumstances." 
                  "She shall know all-she shall know all," said Dibbs, "as soon as die is able to bear it, but we must not agitate her, you know; good morning, good morning," and he saw with unspeakable satisfaction the graceful figure of the young lady descend the steps. 
                  Mr. Miles had checked his pace, and had lingered at the foot of the portico in order not to interfere with a conversation which seemed to partake somewhat of a confidential character, and now rejoining his client at the moment that the door opened to admit them, he repeated the inquiry which he had already made of Dibbs. 
                  "Only a legacy hunter," whispered the latter, with a mysterious air, as they glided together into the hall of the building, whence, after a little delay, they were ushered into the invalid's room, Solomon leading the way on tiptoe, and with a sorrow-beaming countenance. 
                  Mrs. Kentrips sat, propped by many pillows, in a large fauteuil, and it needed but a glance at her wan face and lustreless eye to convince Mr. Miles that his services had been required none too soon, and that to be effectual they must be speedy. Mrs. Dibbs, with all gentleness and seeming solicitude, was in active attendance upon the invalid, proposing endless adjustments and modifications of the various appliances of ease which were at hand, and wearying the dying woman with the ceaseless repetition of proffered services. Letitia, with a visage set to grief by an opposite mirror, waved an unfaltering fan before the patient, who was thus, in her last imbecile hours, fully, in the possession of her designing relatives. 
                  She fixed her glassy eyes a moment on the lawyer, and then gave an uneasy and inquiring glance around the room, and toward the door. Did she experience some returning affection in that hour, for her discarded grand-child-some faint hope which she was still too proud to express, that Bell would yet come to seek a reconciliation? The approach of death often sharpens the intellectual as well as the bodily vision, and it may be that she was becoming conscious of the purity and excellence which she had spurned from her presence, and that some suspicions had beset her in regard to the hungry expectants of fortune by whom she was surrounded. 
                  But whatever thoughts of this nature entered her mind, she remembered, fortunately for her consistency of character, that pride of will, which might be said to be the master passion of her soul, and banished them. 
                  "You have come to write my last will and testament," she said, at length, pausing in her survey, and looking again at the lawyer. 
                  "To receive your instructions rather," replied Mr. Miles; "we do this sort of thing at our offices, and it is not the work of an hour, or scarcely of two, and I am happy to perceive that there seems no necessity of haste." 
                  "There is need of haste," the old lady faintly replied, laying her hand upon the region of her heart with an expression of pain. 
                  "Every despatch shall be used," returned Miles; "accuracy and promptitude is every good lawyer's motto-nevertheless, as I said before, we are not going to Jose you yet, Mrs. Kentrips; don't think it." 
                  So saying, he whisked out his tablets, and placing them on his knee, awaited, pencil in hand, the instructions of the testatrix. A few charitable legacies were first indicated, some to benevolent institutions, and one or two to old family servants, and the old lady added- 
                  "All the rest of my property, of every description, houses, lands, furniture and money, I leave to--." 
                  She made so very long a pause at this, point that the lawyer raised his eyes, expecting to see that she had swooned, or that some paroxysm of physical suffering had arrested her voice, but she remained gazing steadfastly before her, as if lost in thought, and unconscious of delay. The Dibbses exhibited manifest symptoms of uneasiness, and Solomon essayed, by various seemingly accidental noises, to recall her wandering thoughts, but, for some moments, in vain, and when at length she spoke, her words carried terror to the hearts of her listening relatives. 
                  "Has not Bell called to see me," she said. 
                  "I am sorry to say that the ungrateful girl has not called, nor has she even seat a message of inquiry," replied Mrs. Dibbs, who, to do her justice, knew nothing of the interview at the door. 
                   
                  Solomon closed his mouth firmly and felt, relieved. He had the happy consciousness of not having uttered a falsehood at such a solemn hour, and he thought how that reflection would soothe him when his own end drew nigh. 
                  "And yet," continued the invalid, "she must certainly have heard of my illness." 
                  "Undoubtedly," replied Dibbs, "indeed I may say that I know such to be the case." 
                  "Ah, I see how it is," added Mrs. Kentrips, faintly, "obstinate to the last-obstinate-obstinate." 
                  "I am sure I think it is shameful," said Letitia. 
                  "Perfidious!" added her mother. 
                  "I give, devise, and bequeath all the rest, residue and remainder of my real and personal estate," said the lawyer, reading from his tablets, and looking inquiringly up, "to--" 
                  "My cousin, Solomon Dibbs, Esquire," responded the dying woman, "who is also to be my sole executor." 
                  The Dibbses had their handkerchiefs ready for this desired denouement, and three pairs of eyes were suddenly obscured, while a multitude of gentle sobs attested their emotion. 
                  "May you yet live long to enjoy it yourself, my dear cousin," said Solomon, who was impressed with the necessity of saying something. 
                  "I shall live but a few hours," was the response, in a positive voice-"you must know it; therefore, these compliments are idle. Let Mr. Miles hasten to complete his work, and return this afternoon to have the will signed and witnessed. Go now, all but Martha, and leave me to repose." 
                  Three hours later in the day, the important instrument, completed with all the verbal forms of law, was duly signed and attested, and during the watches of the ensuing night, Death claimed his victim. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER IV. 
                  THE news of the rich Mrs. Kentrips' dangerous illness had spread rapidly in the community, and curiosity was every where awake to learn upon whom her golden mantle was to fall. The fact that she had made a will exclusively in favor of Solomon Dibbs became, therefore speedily known through the neighborhood before the ink was fairly dry upon the paper, for there was no attempt at secrecy on the subject in any quarter. 
                  To the somewhat remote residence of Mr. Brandon, tidings from Kentrips Place was more slow in penetrating. The news of their relative's dangerous situation had not reached Hubert and his daughter until that morning, when Bell, as has been seen, vainly sought to visit her, and it was not until the evening that the unwelcome, but not unexpected, intelligence of the making of the will was received. Still they did not dream of the immediate death of Mrs. Kentrips, and Bell, who grew calculating only in her father's behalf, was not without a hope that her next morning's promised interview with her grandmother might result, not indeed in her becoming the heiress of the estate, but in some substantial legacy in her favor. 
                  If little was said, however, between father and daughter on the exciting subject of the will, it was discussed with abundance of acrimony in the kitchen, where Joe and Dinah voted unanimous reprobation upon the whole race of Dibbs, and as much censure upon the dying woman as they dared to express, in view of the fact that she might so soon become a "spook," and would be able, in that capacity, to visit a terrible retribution upon their heads. Their attachment to Bell was entirely unbounded, and every thing which militated against her interest was to their honest souls a source of deep sorrow. But they hoped much from Bell's intended visit on the morrow, and as Joe was also to go himself in the first instance, early in the morning, to inquire about the old lady's health, he retired in good season to rest. 
                  Zealous to perform well his commission, he rose at an unnecessarily early hour, and went slowly on his way, revolving in his mind many things connected with his errand. The thoughts of the cruel will, of which he had heard so much, and which was to deprive his beloved young mistress of her once expected patrimony, dwelt heavily upon his mind. He considered it an act of direct robbery on the part of Dibbs, aided by a power which he fully believed competent to the achievement of any imaginable act of diablerie-the hand and head of a lawyer. Wrong and insufficient as were his premises and reasoning, his conclusion was not amiss, nor different from what a full knowledge of all the facts would have justified in a wiser head. It was an act of robbery. 
                  Joe went on, and when he reached the house the hour was yet so early that he saw no one moving about the premises, and doubted whether the domestics were yet risen. Doubtless they had taken advantage of the melancholy state of affairs to prolong their morning slumbers. He approached the door and knocked, and after waiting vainly some minutes for a response, he ventured to enter unbidden. Finding himself in the principal hall, he passed respectfully, and hat in hand, to an inner door, which stood ajar, where he again knocked, but as before without reply. Emboldened by the general silence he ventured to push the door a little further open and look in. His first glance told him that he was in the presence of the dead, and awakened in him an awe which would have induced him to retreat l with precipitation, had he not discovered at the same moment that he was not alone, of the living, in that solemn presence. 
                  In the large, commodious fauteuil which had been so Recently occupied by the deceased, sat, or rather reclined, Mrs. Dibbs, in a state of the most placid and profound repose, while the other equally vigilant watcher, Letitia, was stretched upon a sofa, in a sleep equally unequivocal. The heavy window curtains, carefully closed, scarcely admitted enough of daylight into the apartment to dispute the supremacy with the solitary lamp that burned upon the table. The corpse had been laid out upon the same bed, on which it had ceased to breathe, and which, standing with one extremity against the wall, and the other extending into the centre of the room, was almost within reach of the startled visiter. Between him and it, however, and close to the head of the bed stood a chest of drawers, also against the wall, and as his curious eye, took a rapid survey of the room, it rested at length upon a roll of paper, which Jay in a small half opened drawer at the top of this bureau, and at the end nearest to the bed. 
                  Joe looked narrowly at it for some seconds, and saw, through its gaping folds, that it was filled with writing. Was not this, then, he asked himself, that mysterious will, on the existence of which such momentous results depended? Was it only this little contemptible bit of paper that withheld from the beautiful Bell the rights to which she was by nature entitled, and conferred them upon a vile, unworthy man? How easy would it be to reach it, to remove it, to destroy it at his leisure, alone and unsuspected! Who would know but that the dying woman, repenting of her injustice to her nearest kindred, had herself destroyed the will before her death, by casting it, unobserved, in the adjacent fire? 
                  These ideas, clothed perhaps in a somewhat different garb of words, passed rapidly through the negro's brain, and he trembled with the daring purpose that gradually took shape in his mind. He was not mistaken in his supposition 'that the instrument before him was the dreaded will. The deceased, as if anxious to retain her hold upon her worshipped property to the last moment of her existence, had caused the will, when executed, to be placed in a drawer of the bureau, within her reach, whence she had actually taken it out and partly perused it several times in the evening. In the excitement of the death scene, which had occurred in the night, the position of the drawer, and its valuable contents, had escaped observation, not the remotest fear being, of course, entertained for the safety of the paper. 
                  Joe's conscience did not upbraid him for his contemplated felony, for, in the simplicity of his heart, he fully believed that the deed, if it could be accomplished, would be only an act of justice and benevolence. He did not understand the sacredness of those general principles which admit of no violation for specific ends, however praiseworthy such ends may seem. His only hesitation was from fear. It might be a hanging matter, he thought, and the probability of such a termination to his adventure was argued pro and con for some minutes in his anxious breast. 
                  In the mean time Mrs. Dibbs gave signs of restlessness, muttered some indistinct words in her sleep, and seemed about to awake. Joe felt his courage departing, and as his longing eyes once more reverted to the drawer, the vision of the gallows loomed up more horribly than before, in his affrighted imagination, seeming to intercept his view of the coveted document. He even seemed to see himself hanging in the air, and trying to reach the top of that very bureau with his dangling feet. 
                  Again he looked at Mrs. Dibbs, who in a changed position had become more quiet, while her daughter continued to give unquestionable evidence of the profundity of her slumbers. Not satisfied with this scrutiny alone, the negro surveyed carefully every part of the room, and of the hall through which he had entered, to see if there might not be some concealed spectator of his movements, for it seemed as if the very furniture must have eyes for such a deed as the one he contemplated. 
                  There was a pair of old portraits hanging in the room, intended to represent the deceased woman and her husband when both were young, but the flat and faded faces of which seemed now more like the daguerreotypes of unhappy ghosts, than the image of any living flesh and blood. Staring down upon him with their cold, spectral eyes, seeming to watch his every gesture, these became to him the objects of especial terror, and he became sensible that if he would accomplish his project, he must do it without further delay, or his courage would fail. 
                  One only additional precaution he resolved on, and that was to walk first lightly about the hall, and thus learn whether the noise of his retreat would disturb the sleepers; but in doing so he was horrified to perceive, as he thought, that the opposite portrait of the old lady was viewing him more narrowly than ever, and was even bending its long yellow neck to follow him more effectually with its eyes. A prey to superstition, he was about to fly, when the image of the unhappy Bell rose to his mind, and he tried to reassure himself by bringing his little stock of philosophy to his aid. 
                  That the picture might in some way be animated with the spirit of the departed, and might at that moment both, see and comprehend him, Joe believed fully possible, but he felt certain that it could not get down from the twisted iron hooks upon which it was suspended; and that, therefore, he had not to fear any forcible interference with his design. Besides that, he thought, it cannot speak to tell of what it sees; and if it could do so, he knew enough of the laws to know that even a negro could not be hung on the testimony of a ghost. That question had often been discussed around the kitchen fire side; and once, according to a very authentic tradition, Yawpy Dillyer, a wise Dutch lawyer, had actually offered to produce in court the spook of a murdered pedlar, as a witness against his assassin, but the frightened judges, deciding hastily that he was inadmissible, adjourned on the spot for dinner, although it was only nine o'clock in the morning. 
                  Joe, therefore, returned slowly to the room, gave one more glance at the portraits and the sleepers, and then, keeping his eye upon Mrs. Dibbs, as the one most likely to awake, he extended his long, brawny arm, slowly and tremblingly to the paper. In another moment, the crumpled document was in his grasp, was pulled from the drawer, was thrust to the depths of his capacious coat pocket, and the negro hastily but silently withdrew, not daring to look back, and half expecting to hear the clattering picture frames in pursuit. He made his escape unobserved, and, turning the first corner, sought his home by the nearest route; where, merely reporting that the house of Mrs. Kentrips was still closed and the family not risen, he retired to his own room, to get rid of his dangerous freight. 
                  It was not without some sense of shame that Mrs. Dibbs awoke from her protracted sleep, conscious of her neglected watch over the remains of her friend, to whom while living she had been so assiduous in her attentions, But in the next instant, the joyous anticipations of wealth to which she arose fully occupied her mind. She gave a hasty glance at the corpse to see that it was undisturbed, aroused her still slumbering daughter, and then went to the bureau for, the purpose of closing and fastening the depository of the precious will. The drawer in which it had lain was still half filled with papers, and Mrs. Dibbs, without noticing or suspecting the absence of the only one for the safety of which she was solicitous, closed and carefully locked the drawer, and with a smile of placid exultation deposited the key in a place of safety about her person. 
                  Joe's wits, meanwhile, were sharpened by what he considered his own extreme peril; and to avoid suspicion he went through the ceremony of repeating his call at the house of Mrs. Kentrips at a later hour in the morning, and inquiring after the health of the deceased. He then returned and. reported the startling and unwelcome news of her death, thus dissipating the few remaining hopes of Hubert and his daughter. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER V. 
                  DIBBS, meanwhile, congratulated himself without ceasing on the triumphant success of his skilful management, nor did he mean that any time should be lost in taking possession of the estate which he had so honorably acquired. He consulted Miles, and was informed that a proper time for producing and reading the will, preparatory to offering it for proof, would be immediately after the funeral, and that it would be proper that the heir-at-law, and all the immediate relatives of the deceased should be invited to be present on that occasion. 
                  "And a nice time they'll have of it, won't they?" said Dibbs, "but there is no body but Bell Brandon and her father, and I will walkover there, and notify them myself." 
                  "Is this Bell Brandon the person whom the old lady inquired after so particularly, when she was giving instructions about the will?" 
                   
                  "Y-yes," said Solomon, a little alarmed lest the lawyer should also suspect her identity with the lady they had met at the door; but he had nothing to fear from an exposure, excepting the disgrace which must attend it, and his apprehensions were, therefore, not at all poignant. A second thought convinced him that his companion could not fail to recognise her when they should next meet, and he, therefore, thought it safest to unmask before his Counsel, whose secrecy he believed he had the certain means of securing. 
                  "Yes, she is the person," he repeated, "and you will see that she also bears a striking resemblance to the young lady we met at the door," he added, laughing freely, and winking to the attorney, "but it is not the same person, you know, of course; not at all. That was-O dear me, I have forgotten who, but a cousin of the fifteenth remove." 
                  "That was the fifteenth remove, perhaps, from that door, at your bidding," said Miles. 
                  "Ha! ha! very good; no, 'pon honor, no, not more than the fifth at the farthest, I assure you. Poor Bell! it would only have aggravated her grandmother, you know, to see her, and we Should have lost the blessed old lady too soon. By the way, Miles, don't be squeamish about charging for, your services in drawing the will; I shan't flinch for a couple of hundreds or so, you know; and you must consider yourself attorney for the estate in future." 
                  If the eyes are, as is sometimes poetically said, the windows of the soul, Mr. Miles, it is known, had taken the precaution to procure a pair of green window blinds for his, which being always up, forbade any prying penetration into his thoughts. His calm, measured mechanical voice was equally devoid of any expression-which could assist the hearer in construing his words, or in detecting any latent meaning that might exist in them. The motions of his body, for gestures he never made, were equally unindicative, and when in response to Dibbs' parting salute, fluent and flippant, he discharged, rather than spoke the two brief words, "good morning"-they might as well have been ground out of a barrel-organ by the turning of a crank, for any emotion they betokened either of pleasure or indignation. Yet he had been made the confidant of a villain, and had been plainly offered a bribe for his secrecy. 
                  Solomon proceeded with alacrity to the dwelling of Hubert Brandon, whom he found little disposed to admire the choice and flowery language in which, in the exuberance of his delight, he made known the object of his visit. Brandon replied to him briefly, that himself and daughter would attend both the funeral and the reading of the will, for his knowledge of its contents was gathered only from rumor, and he scorned to question Dibbs in regard to it. He did not, indeed, doubt the general accuracy of what he had heard, but there might still be some bequest to his daughter, who as the legal heir ought not to be unrepresented on so important an occasion. Hubert was a proud man, utterly incapable of fawning upon wealth, and had striven hard to maintain a manly independence of station without recourse to the assistance of others. But as, he had not considered that he had the right to stand in the way of his daughter's advancement at a former period, so neither how, as the natural guardian of Bell, could he overlook her interests in her grandmother's estate, which, if any, had at length become fixed and determinate. 
                  The day of the funeral arrived, and the father and daughter did not decline a seat in the family carriage of the deceased, which was graciously sent by Mr. Dibbs for their accommodation, and in which that worthy individual and his lady became their companions. They had a brief eulogy on the deceased, chemin faisant, from Solomon, and a longer one at church from Dominie Smythe, with many edifying remarks on the subject of her charity to the poor, and her bounty to the Church; and poor Bell began to think that she had been a very ungrateful and undutiful girl toward her now sainted benefactor. Even the Dibbses partook by reflection of the praises lavished on one who had favored them so highly, and the unsuspecting girl began to be oppressed with a sense of even their exceeding goodness, compared with her own demerit. 
                  This impression was confirmed while returning to the house of mourning, when Solomon took occasion patronisingly to say to Mr. Brandon that his wife and daughter were already occupied with schemes for the benefit of Bell, which he could do no more then than hint at, but which he was "happy to say, struck him as being comprehensive and judicious." 
                  Bell looked with glistening eyes at her father for some acknowledgment for this kindness, and felt chilled by the cold civility of his reply; but she soon had sufficient proof how much more competent a judge of human nature he was than herself. 
                  Scarcely had she entered the house, when a little white haired girl of ten or eleven years, whose peaked nose and thin lips proclaimed her maternal parentage, ran hastily to her, exclaiming to a shyer sister in the corner- 
                  "Oh, here she is! You are going to be our governess, aint you-and we are going to live in that beautiful house across the street, and you are to teach us, and mamma is going to give you a hundred dollars a year, and, may be, some of Letitia's, fine dresses." 
                  "Silence, my child!" said Dibbs, following Hubert and his daughter into the room; "this is not the time to speak of these things;" besides, we intended it as an agreeable surprise for Miss Brandon by and by." 
                  "But little Ducky has let it all out, hasn't she?" said the mother, kissing the child and chuckling her under the chin; "never mind, Bell will excuse her, I dare say," she continued, addressing the latter, "and with rapid utterance; "you will be quite one of our family, you know, my dear, and as to the salary, it may not be, indeed, quite as much as Melissa says, which was talked of, to be sure, or else she could not have heard it, you know; but we had not quite settled that point However, I shall inquire, and whatever is usual in such cases I shall give, of course; and then it will be a home for you, you know, quite as good, or better, than you had with your poor grandmother." 
                  Bell looked imploringly at her father, in utter uncertainty whether she was not to be compelled to accept of these fearful proposals, and that too with thanks, while Solomon stood looking graciously on the group, rubbing his hands complacently together, and evidently considering himself a very pattern of benevolence. 
                  Hubert had only waited politely for the stream of Mrs. Dibbs' volubility to roll by before replying- 
                  "We will not trouble you," he said coolly to that lady, "to make any inquiries on the subject of salaries for governesses, inasmuch as"- 
                  "Oh, that aint any trouble at all," replied that lady promptly, "we mean to be liberal, you know." 
                  "Profuse, my dear, profuse; interrupted Solomon, "liberal isn't the word; it don't express enough; ten or a dozen dollars shall never stand between us, Mr. Brandon, I assure you. As the head of this family, I intend-" 
                  "Not to be the head of mine, I presume," interposed Hubert, bowing stiffly. "My daughter Bell has no intention of leaving me, nor I of parting with her, and certainly not for the position with which you propose to honor her." (Bell drew closer to his side as he spoke.) "These may be magnanimous offers for the legatee of a millionaire, toward the natural heir of the estate which he inherits, but they are as entirely beyond our appreciation, as, you must be aware, they have been unsought." 
                  "What is it, my dear? Don't the terms suit?" asked Martha of her husband, for she had not been able to comprehend the long periods of the speaker. 
                  "It seems not," answered Dibbs, shrugging his shoulders, and trying to evade the look of scorn which yet lingered upon the lips of Hubert, and seemed still to be discharging, like an electrical battery, its silent but withering shocks upon his heart. "It-ah-seems not-it's the old story, I believe; pride and poverty, and-and-" he added, gathering an insolent courage from the recollection of his wealth, "let me assure Mr. Brandon that hereafter he shall be heartily welcome to both." 
                  Hubert did not condescend to reply, but leading his daughter to a seat, he placed himself beside her, and awaited the business of the meeting. 
                  Mr. Miles, who was expected to read the wilt, had not yet arrived, but in a few minutes he made his appearance, accompanied by the family physician, and Dominie Smythe, who, as friends of the testatrix, had also been invited to be present on the occasion. To the two last named persons Bell was no stranger, she having frequently met them during her abode with her grandmother, and they now greeted her with the greatest kindness and respect, and with regret plainly depicted in their features, that she was hot the fortunate devisee of the deceased. 
                   
                  Miss Letitia came next, a short yellow-haired maiden of thirty, whose fresh fair countenance would not have been unhandsome, but for a certain acridity of expression, which seemed to have become hereditary on the maternal side of the house of Dibbs. She entered the room with a gait which is sometimes not inaptly termed "a flourish," displaying a profusion of jewelry, which glistened upon and made a mockery of her mourning. Ignorant of the eclaircissement between her parents and the Brandons, she greeted Bell with much politeness of the supercilious order, and extended daintily her hand to Hubert, after which, bowing formally to the professional gentlemen, she seated herself, with emphasis, in a chair beside her mother. 
                  Mr. Miles now glanced around the assembly, and inquired, in an under tone, if all were present who were expected, and on receiving an affirmative answer, he added that they were then ready to proceed to business. 
                  "In whose possession is the will!" he asked, addressing Dibbs. 
                  "It remains untouched in the precise position in which it was left by the lamented deceased," answered Solomon, "excepting that a key has been turned upon the drawer that holds it; we thought it best that it should not be handled, excepting officially. My love, you have the key, I believe, please to deliver it to Mr. Miles. 
                  Mrs. Dibbs obeyed with a gentle sigh, and all eyes were upon the lawyer, as he stepped toward the receptable which had been indicated, and opened it with a brisk business air. For some moments and rattling and cruckling of papers was heard under the hands of the attorney; then a movement of the drawer, which was pulled further out, to be more fully explored; and then his calm, monotonous voice- 
                  "The will is not here." 
                  "Oh, yes, it is," said Martha, with quiet confidence, rising at the same time, and proceeding to assist in the search-but her examination proved equally vain. 
                  "You have the wrong drawer, probably," said Dibbs, a little startled. 
                  "No, this Was the one-next to her bed side; but it must have been misplaced, of course, although I could have taken an oath that I locked it up in this very place," and she proceeded rapidly, and with momentarily increasing alarm, to ransack the remaining drawers of the bureau. 
                  Several hands were soon occupied in the search, which was conducted with much minuteness, and was speedily extended to other parts of the room. Half an hour of painful incertitude elapsed, during which every nook and corner of the apartment was explored, while Dibbs, very pale and trembling, sought vainly to conceal his affright, and affected a confidence of speedy success. The servants were next called in, and carefully questioned, without obtaining the least clew to the mysterious loss, and then another half hour was spent in searching in the adjoining rooms every place which could possibly give shelter to the missing document. 
                   
                  As the quest proceeded, in which, with the exception of Dominie Smythe and the Brandons, all who were present participated, the anxiety of all parties increased to the highest pitch; and when the baffled searchers, suspending their labors, had reassembled in the room where they first met, Mrs. Dibbs sank into a chair, with a fit of genuine hysterics, which she vainly strove to repress. 
                  "Don't be alarmed, my dear," said Solomon, with quavering voice; "it is really quite absurd; even if the will should not be found, its contents can be clearly proved, and that," he added, glancing at the lawyer for approval, and at the Brandons with defiance, "that will answer every purpose, I believe." 
                  "It will at least be necessary to prove that the will has been in existence since the death of the testatrix, in order to give it effect," replied the unmoved lawyer. 
                  Dibbs turned paler than the whited wall against which he was leaning, while his wife seemed to transfix; the attorney with her glances, furious as those of a tigress. 
                  "To Say it before them!" she muttered to her daughter-"the traitor! What does he think he has-been paid for?" 
                  "But, surely," exclaimed Solomon, recovering his self-possession and his blandness; of voice-"we know that Mr. and Miss Brandon are strictly honorable people, and that they are altogether incapable of taking advantage of a mere accident, where the, intention of our deceased friend has been so clearly made known." 
                  Hubert, who had been racked by the violent and contending emotions which this sudden and strange development was calculated to inspire in his breast, had, until thus appealed to, remained silent. He was dazzled by the beams of hope which had fallen upon his long rayless heart; by the prospect of rising at once from poverty to affluence, but above all, by the Anticipation of the happiness of the one only object of his affections, his beloved daughter. Yet, with all this to gain, he felt that it was impossible to abate a jot of the strict demands of justice or honor, arid it was with these mingled sentiments that he replied to the remarks of Solomon, which had been addressed to him. 
                  "My daughter," he said, "will never take advantage of an accident to defeat an equitable claim. Prove to us that the will was lost or destroyed without the knowledge or consent of the testatrix, and your claims shall not be contested. But remember, also, that while the shadow of a doubt rests on this point, my daughter's rights shall never be surrendered." 
                  "Oh, there is nothing more easy than to prove that," replied Dibbs, with growing confidence; 
                  "Of course riot," said Mrs. Dibbs. 
                  "Of Course not," echoed Letitia, tossing her head. 
                  "Nothing more difficult," replied Miles, with imperturbable gravity; "negative facts are, of all things, the hardest to prove with certainty." 
                  "I am sure I don't know what a negative fact is," exclaimed Mrs. Dibbs, with unconcealed rage, and turning abruptly from the lawyer to the clergyman, who bad remained an attentive but silent spectator of the scene; "every body must see that this is only an extraordinary accident, Besides, we can prove it." 
                  Thus referred to, Dominie Smythe could do no Jess than speak, and in the act of doing so, he was struck with the unintentionally earnest and appealing look of Bell, whose eyes, in common with those of the best of the company, were turned toward him, for in the first excitement of the affair, the opinions of the disinterested persons present were sought with as much avidity as if they had contained the final adjudication of the matter by the highest court of appeal. 
                  "The question arises," said the Dominie methodically, "whether the deceased had it in her power to destroy the documents Was there a fire in this grate yesterday afternoon and evening?" he said, pointing to a hearth distant but a few feet from the bed side. 
                  "No!" replied Mrs. Dibbs, desperately. 
                  "No!" echoed Letitia, promptly. 
                  "Not any, it seems," added Solomon blandly. 
                  "Aw, yes, Missus, dare was a good fire; I made it myself," exclaimed a black servant girl, who had edged into the room unobserved, and was now delighted with the opportunity of giving a piece of information, without at all comprehending its bearing. 
                  "I am compelled to say, that there was a bright fire in the grate, when I called, at seven o'clock in the evening," added the physician, gravely. 
                  "I believe there is no occasion for our remaining here longer, my love," said Mr. Brandon, rising and giving his arm to his daughter. 
                  "But surely," exclaimed Solomon, also rising, and with great trepidation, "you do not mean lo contest my claim on these frivolous grounds?" 
                  "If there is to be any contest, Mr. Dibbs," returned Hubert, politely, "it will originate with you. My daughter will assuredly enter at once into full possession of the whole estate as the heiress at law, and will certainly retain it, until some one shows a better title." 
                  "Your claim is utterly preposterous, Mr. Brandon," said Dibbs, "and be assured I will never abandon my rights-I will litigate it until doomsday-I will throw it into Chancery-I will-" 
                  "Act your pleasure, sir," replied Hubert, coolly, "but as it is now necessary for myself and daughter to depart; you will excuse me for the necessity of putting an agent in charge of this house and its contents." 
                  "What!" screamed Mrs. Dibbs, "would you turn us out on the very day of the funeral?" 
                  "By no means, madam, if you choose to remain as my daughter's guests," replied Mr. Brandon. 
                  "We will do no such thing. Her guests, indeed! We will see who are guests and who are owners, in a few days, I believe," said Mrs. Dibbs, rising and making preparations to depart; "lawyer Hawksley will straighten all this, and make some folks blush that pretend to be lawyers. Come, my dear, come, Letitia, let us go before we are pushed out." 
                  And the Dibbses withdrew, with cool and stately adieu to the company, and maintaining a very expressive pantomime of smiles and gestures among themselves as they went, intended to indicate their extreme confidence in their claims, and the very speedy manner in which they would cause them to be adjusted. 
                  The residue of the party, although risen to go, remained for some minutes discussing the extraordinary event which had so much astonished them all, and Miles, who was in no way the counsel of Dibbs, and would not have connived at an act of fraud, if he had been so, did not hesitate to relate the deceit that had been practised on Mrs. Kentrips in regard to Miss Brandon's visit It will be remembered, that he was not at that time acquainted with Isabella, and did not suspect her identity with the young lady whom he had met at the door. The presumption followed, that by that and similar frauds the Dibbses had induced the deceased to execute a will in their favor, and that the old lady had either suspected their deception, or had been moved in her last moments by compunctions for her conduct toward her daughter and grand-daughter, and had taken the most summary mode of rectifying every thing by secretly burning the will. This opinion was confirmed by the well known fact, that she had before manifested extreme vacillation of mind on the subject of the disposal of her property, by making and destroying several similar instruments within less than a year. 
                  No one doubted this view of the case, and Bell and her father, after receiving the earnest congratulations of the gentlemen present, departed to their home. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VI. 
                  "IT seems like some wild dream, and I can scarcely yet believe that it is real," said Bell, when they had reached their humble home, and entered the small but neat apartment which constituted their only parlor. 
                  "It is, indeed, a wonderful change, and it has been wonderfully accomplished," replied Hubert; "we shall be long in learning to realize its important consequences." 
                  "But do you think," asked the daughter, "that there is no possible danger that the will is in existence, and may yet be found?" 
                  "Scarcely the least; your grandmother has destroyed it, beyond a doubt, for by no conceivable accident could tit have passed out of that, room without the knowledge of those interested in its preservation." 
                  "Might it not have been stolen?"' 
                  "If such a thing were practicable, remember that there is not an individual in the world whose interest would be promoted by its loss, excepting ourselves, and we certainly are free of all agency in its disappearance." 
                  "Oh, then, I am so glad," exclaimed Bell, with starting tears, "because, you know, grandma must have forgiven me before she died." 
                  Hubert looked upon his beloved daughter for a few moments with renewed admiration and affection. "How little," thought he, "had she, or has any one to forgive you, dear Bell;" for to him it seemed that even in the book of Heaven's accusing angel, the page marked by her name must be white and unsullied by a charge. 
                  "And now," she exclaimed, seizing his hands with ecstacy, "you will not have to write any more at that dreadful desk; nor need you worry about that fearful interest money, for oh, I know it has been this ceaseless anxiety that has spoiled your sleep and your meals, and has made you so pate and thin. Oh, won't it be delightful, for now you can have all those fine books that you have so longed for; and you can have your own carriage to ride in-Oh, dear papa, you will grow young again, won't you?" 
                  "And you, dear Bell, have you no thought for yourself?" 
                  "Oh yes, I shall want plenty of fine dresses, I suppose-and-and-I don't know what, for I have not had time to think yet, you knew." 
                  "You have had time to think of me, Bell, and of my wants." 
                  "Oh, because you have suffered so much, papa; and then I'll tell you what I shall want; I shall want to have poor dear Louisa Wentworth to come and live with me, and to have every thing the same as I have, and to make her poor mother comfortable for life; Oh, won't that be delightful?" she said, speaking with rapidity and vivacity. "May I do it, papa? Will you let me." 
                  "My dear," said Hubert, "do not you know that the whole property is yours, and that I am only a poor pensioner on your bounty." 
                  Bell's laugh rang clear and loud. 
                  "Mine?" she said, "mine?-and am not I yours? And does not that make it all yours, papa? How strangely you talk!" 
                  Hubert, with some difficulty, convinced his daughter that the estate was really wholly her own, and that he had no control over a single dollar of it. 
                  She paused a moment in thought. 
                  "And then I am rich, and you are still poor?" she said. 
                  "Most certainly." 
                  Again Bell laughed until the room echoed with the sound. 
                  "And how much may this great estate, as you call it, amount to?" 
                  "In round numbers, about eight hundred thousand dollars." 
                  "And I am old enough to make a deed, I believe?" 
                  "Yes, you know that you have within this month become of age." 
                  "Then the first thing I shall do, papa, will be to deed it all to you. You may make quite sure of that." 
                   
                  "And you may make quite sure, Bell, that I shall allow you to do no such thing." 
                  "But 1 shall; I wont have the trouble of it. It will be as much as I shall want to do, to take care of one of those large fine houses, which you say we shall live in-so you must take charge of the estate." 
                  "I will take charge of it for you, Bell, and I shall not, own it." 
                  "And that would make you only a steward, papa, or agent, for your own daughter; it shall never-never-never be! Half of the property shall be yours, in your own right, at all events, and that you know will pay you for taking care of the rest." 
                  Hubert laughed and shook his head, but when his daughter threw her arms around his neck, and with tears of affection implored him to consent that this should be so, assuring him that she could not be happy without it, he so far retracted as to say, that if, after the lapse of a year, and after having received the advice of legal counsel, she should continue to urge it, he would then receive this munificent mark of her affection. 
                  Bell now clapped her hands in triumph, and said she should like the lawyers who could persuade her out of it. 
                  "And then I shall have Louise," she continued, with volubility, "and she shall live with me always, or until she is married, and then we will give her-Oh, what a fine fitting out, wont we, papa? A nice house and furniture, perhaps?" 
                  "It will be worthily bestowed, my love," replied Mr. Brandon, "and if you choose, you can let her mother have this house free of rent, for inasmuch as your wealth and station now make it fitting that you should live in better style than heretofore it will be pleasant to have a friend in the old homestead Whom we can visit freely." 
                  "Oh, that will be exactly the thing, for then it wont seem so much of a favor, you know. How kind of you to think of it; do let me run and tell her directly." 
                  Hubert with difficulty restrained his daughter, who was the creature of impulse, but whose impulses were fortunately all generous and noble, from hastening to communicate her designs to her friends; but she submitted in every thing to his judgment, and in the next minute was rapidly enumerating other worthy objects of charity to whom, in a small degree, she was to have the pleasure of imparting a portion of her new found wealth. Her position had rendered her familiar with many most deserving and needy people, to whom a very trifle of her treasures would be like oil poured into the wasted lamp of life. 
                  Nor was there the least shade of affection in these contemplated charities, nor a moment's deliberation upon them as the requirements of duty, nor any consciousness that her conduct was at alt peculiar. She acted from the promptings of a generous and unselfish nature, long accustomed to contemplate the Sufferings of others, and to lose in sympathy, the remembrance of her own. 
                  Hubert gazed into her large blue eyes, and pressed his lips to bet snowy forehead with an ecstacy of affection, in the light of which all earth's horded gold shone dimly as the basest of its kindred metals. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VII. 
                  A FAR different scene was in the meantime enacting at the house of Solomon Dibbs, between whom and his wife, and elder daughter, mutual recriminations were passing in charges of neglect to watch over the important document, upon which so many hopes had been suspended. The whole range of conjecture seemed to be exhausted in attempting to account for the loss of the will upon some other hypothesis than that of its having been destroyed by its maker, for into that channel the belief of the family obstinately refused to subside. 
                  Dibbs lost ho time in consulting with the lawyer Hawksley, whose name had been held up "in terrorem" to the Brandons. He was a prim, small man of about forty years, very smooth in manners, dress and features, and still smoother in language. There was a sort of melodious, cooing tone to his voice which fell soothingly upon the acoustic nerves of the hearers, and glided into the sensorium, bearing persuasion to the soul. Never was there an honester man in appearance. He seemed a personification of that principle, and so difficult was it to conceive of his doing wrong, that if you had detected him picking a pocket, you would have been apt to suspect that there was some mistake in your own preconceived notions about the morality of such an act, and that there was nothing so very bad in it, after all. 
                  This, however, was Hawksley's shell. It was not Hawksley. Inside of all this was a shrewd, subtle, unscrupulous man, with a mind of microscopic powers, in its minute observation of events, of causes and effects, and above all of human nature. He at once gave his whole attention to the affair of his new client, with a full sense of its vast importance, and impelled by a prospective fee of unprecedented magnitude. 
                  The first step taken by his advice, was to advertise the large reward of ten thousand dollars for the lost paper with a guarantee of perfect immunity to the depredator, if it had been stolen. His next move was far bolder, for unshackled by moral principles, and incited by his promised reward, he hesitated at no common obstacles. In company with Dibbs, he called upon Bell, on the day ensuing that on which the advertisement bad appeared, having first ascertained that Mr. Brandon was absent from home, land assured the affrighted girl that they had come to her with terms of the most liberal compromise. 
                  "Projects are on foot," he said, "which can scarcely fail to bring the lost will to light; but Mr. Dibbs is not a grasping man, you know, Miss Brandon, and he is willing, considering your near relationship to the deceased, to pay you ten thousand dollars out of the estate, and say no more about this little accident. He has, if I am not mistaken, the money now with him-" 
                  "In golden pieces," said Dibbs. 
                  "And all that is necessary on your part is to write your name at the bottom of this little-a-release, which I have prepared before coming, knowing that you could not possibly decline. You ought to be very thankful to Mr. Dibbs, indeed, for his generosity." 
                  Hawksley's voice and manner, as has been said, were of that gentle and winning character which we often witness in people of dangerous powers; the very soul of sincerity seemed to gleam from his calm grey eye, and Bell gazed upon him with a look of bewilderment, and with a sense of shame at her hesitation to comply with his request. Some strange fascination seemed to influence her thoughts, and bring them in some degree into unison with those of the speaker. Greatly alarmed at the idea that the will was in existencee, her fears were yet palliated by the chance that was still offered her to escape from a return to utter poverty; nor did the inconsistency of the statement made by the lawyer appear to her confused mind; nor did the full force or efficacy of writing her name to the proposed paper become at all apparent to her. She had no conception of any act of downright villainy ever being perpetrated, excepting by some hideous, monster-like man, far away, she knew not where, and least of all by the smiling and amiable looking individuals before her. The frank, ingenious expression of her face told all this to the wily lawyer as plainly as if she had spoken it in words. 
                  "You say that the will is found?" she said, when at length she was able to reply. 
                  "Yes, certainly, we believe so," replied Hawksley; "it is not exactly in the hands of Mr. Dibbs just yet, you know-but there is a clew-I-ah-can't say more just now, my dear young lady, without betraying certain professional secrets; but it is all quite right, I believe, and there are your two thousand guineas; a large sum-a very large sum, indeed-isn't it though?" and he took out pen and ink from his pocket and placed them on the table with a confident air, as if no doubt remained on his mind of their use being required. 
                  "Cannot you wait until papa's return?" said Bell, with a timid air, as if she hardly, dared to ask so great a favor. 
                  "Mr. Dibbs may possibly be able to stay," said the attorney, with a smile prolonged through his whole reply; "he may be able and willing to stay, and beg a young lady to accept a fortune from him-he may, for Dibbs is a noble fellow; but my time is limited, and I must really go;" and Hawksley pushed the pen toward the little white hand which rested upon the table. 
                  "But I am afraid I don't quite understand," said Bell, tremblingly taking up the pen, and looking at the lawyer-"I am afraid papa may not like it." 
                   
                  "Perhaps he will like better to return to his desk and labors at the counting house," said Hawksley. 
                  Bell trembled at the idea. The gold, she thought, will at least save him from that; Oh, would that he would come!-and she gazed earnestly out of the window. 
                  But the tempter at her side did not allow her time for reflection; His bland, musical voice was again in her ear, and as she turned, his soft, mild eye was on hers. 
                  "Shall we bid you good morning, Miss Brandon?" he said, "We by no means wish to urge this upon you; what you do must be of your own free will. But it is my duty to say to you, in behalf of my client, that the offer will most certainly not be repeated." 
                  "Most certainly not," chimed in Dibbs, taking up his little bag of guineas; "under no possible circumstances-and I expect to find the will lying on my table when I return home-I do, indeed." 
                  Bell took up the pen and drew the paper toward her, and Dibbs allowed the chinking bag to fall upon the table, and disengaged his hand from its hold upon it. But she again paused, and looked up. 
                  "Indeed, I don't know what to do!" she said, with an air of the most painful irresolution. 
                  "We will not urge it, Miss Brandon," said the attorney; "I had supposed we were doing you a great kindness-a very great kindness, indeed; I have been wondering exceedingly at my friend's magnanimity in this matter; but we will not insist upon it-not by any means; are we ready to go, Mr. Dibbs?" 
                  Dibbs was standing at this moment close to the window, and a watchful observer of his movements might have imagined, in his momentarily uplifted finger, something like a signal to some one on the outside. However this may have been, a quick running step was at that moment heard on the lawn approaching the house, and at the next instant the door hastily opened, and a sinister looking lad, whose ink spotted lips and fingers might have proclaimed him an attorney's drudge, stood panting before them. He stood but for a moment. 
                  "It's found!-it's found!" he said, waving his hand, and turning in a twinkling, he dashed off,! and disappeared down the lawn altogether unquestioned by the seemingly astonished visiters of Miss Brandon. 
                  "Oh, ho!" exclaimed Solomon, "then of course we shall have no need of the signature;" while Bell, at the same moment, in utter terror of losing every thing, dipped her pen hastily into the ink, and looked affrightedly at the gold to see if it was disappearing. 
                  "Is it-is it too late to accept your offer?" she said, looking, at Dibbs. 
                  "Too late!" replied Solomon, severely, taking up the treasure at the same time. 
                  Bell turned whiter than the wall. 
                  "Oh, dear, how foolish I have been!" she exclaimed. 
                  "But, on reflection," added Dibbs, "I wont be hard with you, Isabella,-sign it-sign it-and take the money. Friends should not differ about trifles." So saying, he again laid down the gold, and Bell hastily drew the paper toward her. 
                  "Remember," exclaimed/the wily lawyer, "we don't say that the will is found-we don't certainly know it-we have not yet seen it-on't sign, if you prefer not-we are not at all solicitous about it." 
                  "Not at all," echoed Solomon. 
                  "Oh, I'll sign! show me the place;-here, by this seal, is this the place!" 
                  "That is the place." 
                  As Bell hurriedly placed her pen at the point indicated by Hawks-ley, the hearts of the conspirators beat like; iron sledge hammers within their guilty breasts, but their countenances were as calm as ever. To Dibbs, the minute that ensued seemed a veritable hour of suspense. The pen blotted at starting, and a hair was to be removed from its nib, which, to Bell's trembling fingers, was a labor of several seconds. Again she began, and the characters of her Christian name, Isabella, grew elegantly but slowly beneath her pen. What an endless name it appeared to Solomon! All the letters of the alphabet seemed to belong to it, and some even to claim a second Admission. There was torture in each graceful hair line, agony in the slow curves, and anguish in the elaborated and tall-topped consonants. Yet he dared not express his impatience, nor try to hasten her movements. But it was done at last, and Bell paused to examine it. 
                  "It is written crooked, I fear," she said; "see, I am off the line." 
                  "No matter, no matter, write the 'Brandon,' just there, and then it is finished," said Hawksley, and taking hold of one corner of, the paper, he stood ready to add his name quickly as a witness, and to thrust the deed in his pocket, for an object had at that moment met his gaze on the lawn, which greatly increased his trepidation, and even rendered it visible. 
                  But Bell with quick eye saw and followed his glance and sprang at the same moment to her feet. 
                  "Oh, there's papa!" she exclaimed, throwing up the window as she spoke, and beckoning to him to approach. 
                  Dibbs and Hawksley exchanged glances, and each turned slightly pale, but the latter did not lose his composure, nor his Satanic cunning, but perceiving that Brandon approached-slowly, and that there might yet possibly be time to complete his nefarious design, he said- 
                  "Ah! this is fortunate, indeed-now it will be all right! Just complete your signature here, quick, and we will read it all over to him-there-only 'Brandon'-just there, you see, by the seal." 
                  "Oh, my hand trembles so, it is impossible," said Bell, throwing down the pen; "I'll finish it presently;" and she darted like a bird through the doorway, 
                  A minute later, and while the two visited maddened at their defeat, hesitated what course to pursue, she re-appeared, clinging to her father's arm, and hastily recounting to him the recent events. The story was but partly told, but when Hubert's eye fell upon Hawksley, whose reputation he well knew, and upon Dibbs, and next upon the bag of money, and the half-signed deed, be comprehended every thing as fully as if it had been minutely narrated to him. 
                  He was a peaceable man, but the fire of a fast-kindling wrath flashed in his dark eye. He took up the paper, glanced rapidly over its contents, and then, utterly inattentive to the voluble attorney, who had commenced an explanation, he tore it into a hundred pieces. Next he seized the bag of money and flung it through the low open window, whither Dibbs, in great trepidation, followed it. He then turned to Hawksley, who was still trying to speak, and pointed with his cane to the door. 
                  "Go!" he said hoarsely, "go! and quickly, if you would go in peace." 
                  There was an expression in the face of the speaker not to be disregarded, and the attorney, with a few words about misapprehensions, future explanations, &c., glided meekly past him, and rejoined his companion oh the lawn. 
                  Bell, quite astounded to see her smooth spoken friend treated with so little ceremony, had remained an awed spectator of the proceedings, the causes for which, together with the true character of the plot, of which she had so nearly been the victim, were at once explained to her by her father; and she rejoiced in the recovered consciousness that, notwithstanding the loss of Solomon's offered gold, she was not a pauper, nor would her father be compelled to return to the counting house. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VIII. 
                  A YEAR glided by, and the golden visions of Isabella Brandon had become tangible realities. In full possession of a large, property which had so unexpectedly descended to her, occupying one of the finest of her own numerous mansions, which was furnished in a style befitting its exterior magnificence, and surrounded, without stint, by all the numerous appliances of wealth, she found herself at once at the pinnacle of fashion-a youthful sovereign, as it were, over the society in which she moved. 
                  Nor had she failed to signalize her accession to the estate by the most liberal benefactions to her friends and the poor, some of whom dated from this period their release from long struggles with poverty and toil. To Louisa Wentworth she became as a sister, sparing no proof of kindness or affection for the friend of her obscurer life, while, for the mother of her young companion, she promptly carried out the plan which had been suggested by Mr. Bran-don, but not without many added favors. 
                  She had insisted, too, that old Mr. Agnew, with whom she had formerly been a great favorite, should continue a member, of their family, and Hubert easily found opportunity to offer him some light employment connected with the charge of the estate, which would not only relieve him from a sense of dependence, but which justified urging upon him a valuable stipend. He no longer hobbled daily to and from a distant place of business, (what his business had been no one in the family had, ever known,) but spent several hours of every day in a little office in a wing of the building, at the open doorway of which he regularly made his appearance, with his spectacles on the top of his forehead, whenever Bell entered her carriage, or returned from a drive, and watched her with a look of patriarchal affection, until she had entirely disappeared from view. 
                  Joe and Dinah were, of course, also members of the household, having indignantly refused to be pensioned off, and furnished with a separate home of their own, and as no body thought of disputing their behests, they were respectively installed over the stable and kitchen, with the privilege of bestowing any amount of grumbling upon the younger and more serviceable domestics. 
                  A few words now are due to the fortunes of Frank Halley, who in his new home had heard nothing of the several changes which had befallen Bell since his departure. He had not sought to eradicate her image from his thoughts, for be had continued to indulge some ill-defined hopes that he might by extraordinary exertions, elevate himself to a position in the social scale, which would entitle him to aspire to her hand. 
                  His professional debut had been successful, and even brilliant, but the year which succeeded, although it also, hid been marked by its triumphs, had by no means given that advancement which his young and ardent hopes had anticipated. A reaction of feeling ensued, and it was with a drooping courage, and half-desponding heart, that, in the autumnal season, about a year subsequent to his leaving the city, he returned thither for the purpose of making a brief visit to his friends. 
                  Among his former fellow students had been a fine-looking, foppish fellow, named Fields, whose conceit was without limit, and who, possessing a sufficient income from his patrimony to admit of making himself quite ridiculous in his style of dress and living, availed himself of that power to the fullest extent. His rooms were in the hotel at which Halley put up, and lie met his old chum with much patronizing, cordiality, commiserated his immured situation in the country, and spoke glowingly of the increased attractions of the town. Frank detested Fields for his impudence and puppyism, but having his society forced temporarily upon him, he availed himself of it, to learn the current tidings of the city, among the first items of which he heard with sadness of the changed forces of Miss Brandon. 
                  "You never knew her, I believe," said Fields, tapping his boot with his rattan, "she is quite the toast now, of, course-the cynosure of all eyes-Blakesly, Wells, Hillis, Jones, Tompkins," he said, enumerating some of the principal beaux of the city, "are all on the course, I assure you, and half a score of others." 
                  "Including, I suppose, Mr. Jonathan Fields?" 
                  "Well," said Fields, "to speak the truth, Bell and I are on good terms, and may be on better; she likes me well enough, I think, and I, You know, can't help reciprocating it to some extent. But this is quite between us, you know, Halley." 
                  "Oh, yes," said Frank, restraining himself from a violent inclination to knock the fellow down. 
                  "We attend a party there to-morrow night," he continued; "perhaps I can procure an invitation for you as a friend of mine." 
                  "Pray, don't think of such a thing, as I should most certainly decline," replied Halley. 
                  "Decline! Decline an invitation to the Brandons! Why what a rustic you are; you surely cannot be in earnest, and now I think of it-Frank, you can really be of service to me there. You have the reputation pf talent, and justly too, Halley, very justly, and your opinion will go a good way, you know. For instance, now, you could say to Miss Brandon, 'There's my old friend, Fields-a fine fellow, Fields is, intellectual, sound, learned-we studied together-he was a great student, Fields was-distinguished himself in our club-is spoken of for congress-Fields will be governor yet-he's sure to be governor.' Don't you see, Frank," he continued, poking his companion in the side with his finger; "don't you see what an effect all that would have?" 
                  Halley knew his companion too well to be surprised at his remarks, and he grew amused rather than angry, for he began to consider Fields quite unworthy of so decided an emotion as contempt. 
                  "But I thought you were pretty sure of your standing, already?" he said. 
                  "Well, I am," replied Fields, "but Tompkins, who has his townships, and Blakesly, who has his bank, are making great efforts, you know, and it is well enough to countermine a little; I may reckon you on my side, I think." 
                  "Don't count on me, I beg," replied Halley, turning away in disgust, and walking away to the opposite end of the piazza upon which they were standing, at the very moment that the carriage of Miss Brandon appeared rolling down the street. 
                  Fields immediately squared himself for an effective bow, planting his bedizened person between the central pillars of the piazza, and chaining his eye to the window of the vehicle. But it was in vain, for Bell kept back in the obscurity of the carriage until it was fairly past the fop-but at the next instant her blooming face suddenly appeared near the window, and a smite and a bow were so evidently levelled at Halley, that it was impossible they should miss their aim. 
                  Frank bent his fine figure to the railing before him, with the utmost grace and self-possession, removing his hat entirely as he rose, and remaining uncovered until the carriage had passed out of sight. 
                  "Why, how's this?" said the unabashed beau, approaching Frank; "that bow seemed fully as much yours as mine, and yet I did not know that you were acquainted with Miss Brandon. But the truth is, we are so intimate that Bell scarcely considers it necessary to bow to me; she sometimes puts up her finger threateningly, so, or shakes her curls roguishly, or something of that kind, but bows are quite too formal between friends. However, I am glad you are not a stranger to her; I shall find it the more easy to procure an invitation for you, and in requital, Halley, you know all you have to do. 'One good turn deserves another'-don't forget about the governor, you know-ah, you are a lucky fellow to have met me; here are half the town dying to go to the Brandons to-morrow night, and can't." 
                  "But as I am not dying to go there," said Frank, smiling, for he did not wish to quarrel with such a shadow of a man, "my good fortune is not so obvious. You understand the English language, I believe," he added after a pause, "and you will therefore understand me when I say that I do not desire, and will not accept an invitation of any one's procurement." 
                  "Heyday! here's a man who, flings away the gifts of Fortune, with a witness," exclaimed the fop, partly soliloquising, and partly addressing his companion; "why, you might have gone with me in my carriage, as my friend, but you've too much independence of character, Halley: that's your bane, and always was; never mind-'gang your ain gait,' as the Scotch say-you won't go to Bell Brandon's, that's certain." 
                  Two hours later, Fields was astonished at seeing a servant of the Brandons enter the hotel, bearing a neatly folded note, and inquiring for Mr. Halley; his surprise, however, immediately gave way to the conviction that it was entirely owing to Bell having seen the young country attorney in his company, and to her remembering him as a fellow student of his. This was no forced or argued conclusion; it was the natural and real belief of an inflated and weak mind, enveloped in the mirror-like case of conceit, which reflected only, on every side, the magnified object of self. 
                  Halley would gladly have declined his invitation, but he could not do so without positive rudeness, and, after much irresolution, he resolved to attend the party. His reception by Miss Brandon was cordial in the extreme, but it was that kind of frank friendliness, which is the last basis upon which a lover would dream of building any hopes. He dismissed, therefore, with a pang, all suitor-like thoughts, and became, as he naturally was, one of the most lively and attractive of men. For a while he remained at the side of Bell, discussing with much animation some reminiscences of their former acquaintance, but, remembering that in her character as hostess, every body had claims upon her, he withdrew as the evening advanced, and mingling with some friends of his own sex, became rather an observer than a participant in the gayeties around him. 
                   
                  Fields' report of the attention paid to Miss Brandon, had not been exaggerated. He saw her perpetually the centre of a buzzing throng of beaux, who vied with each other in making themselves agreeable to her, and in winning some tokens of her regard; he saw, too, that many of these admirers were young men of large wealth, or of great expectations, and he felt quite relieved at the thought that he was not a competitor with them, at such immeasurable odds against him. Yet his heart was really full of Bell, and he heartily wished a thousand times over, that the golden wall which had been so suddenly built up between them, might be forever demolished. 
                  But notwithstanding his magnanimous renunciation of the general idol, he found himself jealously watching the favors which she bestowed upon others, and while he was pained to perceive that even the frivolous Fields was the recipient of quite as large a share as any of the rest of her suite, he had not the coolness of judgment to discern in that fact, an indication of equal indifference to them all. From time to time, he encountered her merry glance resting inquiringly upon him, but he could not summon courage again to approach her. The old gentlemen and dowagers seated in odd corners, the painting, statuary, books, prints, every thing seemed to claim his attention rather than the one object which was filling his heart, and occupying every thought. 
                  Fields, meanwhile, clearly resented Frank's rejection of his proffered patronage, keeping quite aloof from him, and save that he occasionally cast a look of triumph at the hapless "outsider," seeming unconscious of his presence. He had not arrived early enough to witness the reception of his fellow-student, whom he did not doubt, was altogether a supernumerary in the party. But as the hour for dancing drew nigh, he changed his conduct, for he had become apprehensive that Halley was not sufficiently observant of his own distinguished treatment, and he resolved to call his attention to it. 
                  "Isn't she superb?" he said in a whisper, as he approached Frank; "don't you see what a fascinating smile she has when one says any thing that pleases her? Really, she has done nothing but laugh the last half hour that I have talked with her. Blakesly is rather in the back ground, this evening, isn't he?" 
                  "I thought he seemed quite in favor." 
                  "Not at all; that was all sham-she must be polite to him, of course, but you'll see that she won't ask him to dance." 
                  "Won't ask him to dance!" replied Frank, laughing: "pray, is it customary here, for the ladies to make such advances to the gentlemen?" 
                  "In their own houses-yes. You see it is a custom lately introduced here from abroad, in order to prevent ladies from receiving too marked attentions at their own parties. They are not asked to dance, but freely select their own partners." 
                  "Without any impartiality being implied by the selection, I presume," said Halley. 
                  "Why, yes, that is the understanding;" said Fields, who was fully anticipating his own appointment to the post of honor; "but then, you know, that isn't always the case. I'll be bound that Bell Brandon chooses some one she likes, for she has real independence of character with all her mildness and amiability." 
                  While he spoke, the musicians entered the room, and the buzz of preparation for the coming cotillions was immediately heard. Fields immediately looked to see in what part of the room Miss Brandon was, in order to throw himself in her way, but his first glance showed him, to his unspeakable ecstacy, that she was coming immediately toward him, leaning upon her father's arm. Giving an elbow nudge and a look of victory to his companion, he turned with a very grimace of a smile to receive the expected honor, but how utter was his discomfiture, when he saw Bell pass him without word or look, and extend timidly her little hand to Frank. 
                  "You are a dancer, if I recollect rightly," she said with a sweet smile, "and as such, are liable to do duty in the ranks to-night." 
                  Halley with a strange thrill of delight, seized gently the proffered hand, and muttering some well-turned compliment walked with Bell to the head of the first cotillion, which had been left open for them, while the remainder of that set, together with three others, extending through two large parlors, were already filled with pre-engaged couples. 
                  Halley was a good dancer, and an enthusiast in music, and for while he yielded himself to the delirium of his unexpected position, nearly forgetful of all his prudential resolutions. Those dangerous pauses, when only the side-couples were in motion, and every body was watching them, and the music was in full blast-those dangerous pauses, so tempting to tender and confidential phrases, became very pit-falls to his heroic resolves. Then Bell was so exactly the same as she had formerly been; she evidently had no sense of elevation in respect to him; she had approached no nearer to him who was her standard of excellence; there was the same timid deference of manner toward him mingled with all her gayety that there had always been. 
                  Frank had no puppyism in his character; he did not readily fancy himself preferred by the ladies; but he knew that the soul of sincerity dwelt in the bright blue eyes before him, and unless he was bewitched into blindness by their beauty, he was sure that he could not be an object of indifference to her. What should he do? Retreat of course, said reason, judgment, dignity, and self-respect, gathering around the council-board of his heart; retreat, of course. How would it beseem a penniless, briefless lawyer, like thee, to offer thy empty hand to the proprietress of Kentrips Place? Oh, yes, Frank was fully resolved to retreat. But then came longer pauses between the changing figures of the dance, and more reminiscences of the past year were evoked and chatted about, and laughed over, and before Halley well knew what he had said, he had violated all etiquette by asking if he might hope to dance with Miss Brandon again. 
                  Bell blushed and smiled as she replied, "It will be quite out of order, I assure you-but-you may ask me for the last dance if you choose." 
                  Halley bowed low as he replied, "I shall count the moments until then," and something more he might have said had not the hushed music put a stop to the general motion, and an order from the sable violinist, peremptory as a field-marshal's, directed the gentlemen to seat their partners. 
                  How the long interval passed, Frank scarcely knew; before it was over he had some vague idea of having committed a variety of absurdities; of asking an unknown and much faded young lady to dance by mistake for some one else; of "chasseing" on the wrong side; of "balancing" with the wrong lady, and of once finding himself all alone, quite in the inside of a "basket cotillion," when he belonged in the outer circle. He remembered, too, subsequently standing somewhere in a corner, and answering some eager questions of a misty man, who must have been Fields, for his words, unrecognised by the brain, had lingered on his tympanum, and penetrated inwards long after, in fragmentary questions about Bell-and whether he had told her of him, and of his future career as congressman and governor-to all which he thought he must have answered in the affirmative-for the man had gone away full of smiles. 
                  Next he was fortifying his resolution to fly as soon as that one blissful dance was over; to leave town on the morrow, and never again to see Bell, until by some mighty intellectual leap, he should stand on some eminence of fame equal in altitude to her golden pedestal. He would dive into the profoundest depths of all legal lore-he would soar to the loftiest heights of eloquence-he would astonish the world with his acumen, research, skill, genius-he would- 
                  But the music has sounded for that final cotillion, and he is again at the side of Bell, with her dear hand in his, and his lofty visions all vanishing in the distance. Strange changes did the short half hour which ensued, work in Halley's mind. He fairly forgot that there was any such distinctions as wealth and poverty in the world, or that there was any disparity between his beautiful partner and himself, excepting in her exceeding merit and loveliness. He was fascinated, dazzled, enthralled, he said, he knew not what-but something that called up a prolonged blush, which, although sought to be hidden in the rapid evolutions of the dance, met him at every turn, growing deeper, deeper, and deeper still, unconcealed by the veil of swinging curls, which fell profusely over cheek and neck; and with it he saw, too, when it could be no longer averted, an eye moist and sparkling with emotion. 
                  Halley did not go home on the ensuing day, nor the ensuing week. Fields did not again ask him to become his intercessor. Blakesly, Tompkins, Jones, and Smith, all eyed him askance; and in less than a fortnight all the world knew him to be the accepted lover of Bell Brandon. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER IX. 
                  JOE had a mighty secret in his breast, but it reposed there quietly, and made no effort to escape. He had no craving desire to find a confidant to assist him in keeping it close; he believed he could do that better alone. He was satisfied to have benefitted Bell so greatly, and to have made his kind master happy, although they would never know their obligations to him, for he was determined never to disturb their happiness by any doubts as to their perfect right to the estate. Besides, although his conscience did not trouble him in the least as to the morality of his deed, he had never gained the mastery of that dreadful terror of the gallows which had beset him, and he dared not speak of what he had done, even to those most interested in preserving his secret. Little did he dream that the slightest whisper of his crime, either to Hubert or his daughter, would dissolve, as some magical illusion, the whole gorgeous fabric of their wealth and splendor, and that they, themselves, would be the first to proclaim the wrong which had been done and restore the property to its original owner. 
                  But Joe's fears of the hangman had also operated in another way, and caused him to leave his work but half completed. He had never destroyed the will, for he thought the legal offence would only be consummated by that act, and that if it were necessary, in order to escape the noose, he would still confess all and give up the paper. Great as was his fidelity to his friends, it did not extend to dying for them, and he had not the sagacity to see that he increased rather than diminished his danger by thus preserving the sole evidence of his guilt. His fears suggested that there might be other proofs against him, perhaps even from the graveyard, and then his only safety would be in his ability to restore what he had taken. 
                  His place of deposit for the important document of which he had become the custodian, was inside the broken lining of an old trunk, in which he kept his Sunday clothes, and to which no one excepting himself, ever had occasion to resort. He knew, however, that it would be made more liable to exploration by being specially interdicted to his sable vrow, Dinah, whose curiosity would be awakened by the prohibition, and would be unappeasable until gratified with the whole story. So he wisely refrained from attaching any character of mystery to his box, further than what might arise from its always occupying an obscure corner of a closet, and being usually locked. 
                  At times, when opportunity favored, he would examine it to make sure that the will remained undisturbed, and often drawing the crumpled paper from its recess, he would scrutinize it closely to see if the destructive mice (who seem to draw nutrition, at times, even from the dull verbiage of the law,) made no inroads upon its long, formidable looking words. On such occasions, which were generally by night, he would sit in painful irresolution, whether to cast his nightmare-like burden at once into the fire, or to restore it to its hiding place Once he even held it corner-wise to his dim, smoky lamp, but before it had fairly ignited he drew it back in alarm, and resolved to wait yet a while longer until the danger of inquiry or investigation should become less as it was, of course, daily diminishing. 
                  It was on an afternoon a few days subsequent to the events related in the preceding chapter, that Joe, having occasion to resort to the dark corner of the dark closet, found to his no small alarm that his trunk was not in its usual place. But his fears were greatly increased when he saw that the articles of his wordrobe, which were usually kept within it, had been removed, and were carefully hung up in the little room. Hastily calling Dinah, he tremblingly demanded an explanation. 
                  "Why, what's in you, Joe, to be so skairt?" said the amazed negress. "I only lent your old trunk to cousin Tim, who is going away up to Hudson with Massa Hawksley." 
                  "Lent it! Lent it to Tim! Oh, Dine-Dine! And Tim b'longs to that dreadful lawyer! Oh, it will be all out!-it will be all out!" 
                  "Did ever any body hare such a rumpus about nothing?" said Dinah-"why you're clean beside yourself, Joe; what will be out, you mollyyhack? There wasn't any thing in it." 
                  "Oh-oh! Wasn't there though! Oh, it will all be out!" he said, feeling of his neck, as if he already felt the rope there. "Oh, Dine! Dine! Oh! Oh!" 
                  "What will be out, I say, you Bedlamer, you!" said Dine, who began to suspect that her husband was losing his wits. "You jes wait here while I Call Miss Bell; she'll give you somethin' to take for it." 
                  "Oh, no-hush! hush!" replied the negro, who began to recover his prudence; "I am better now. What will be out? you ax-oh, nothin'. I didn't mean nothin' at all, but the linin' of the trunk, which was loose you know. But, tell me quick, Dinah, when did he take it, and hab dey started?" 
                  "He took it dis very arternoon, Joe, and dey are goin' to start to-morrow mornin', and you needn't worry 'bout de linin', for Tim say he would hab dat fixed to-day." 
                  "Hab it fixed!" screamed Joe. "Oh! Oh! It will all be out, it will all be out!" and Joe snatched his hat and darted from the house, and through the street in the direction of Hawksley's residence with a speed which, considering his years, and the natural indolence of his race, was marvelous to behold. 
                  Tim Hawksley, as he was called, for want of any other known surname, was a negro lad of about eighteen years, supposed to be a nephew of old Joe's; he was a slave, and belonged to the lawyer, Elihu Hawksley, who had owned him from infancy, and who, having lately attained to the honors of a carriage and span, had promoted the boy to the rank of coachman. Tim was on intimate terms with his old relations tions, and had received not a few favors from Aunt Dinah, since she had been a sort of stewardess at the great house, and when, upon his being unexpectedly called upon to accompany his master afar from town, he found himself in want of a portmanteau, in which to carry a change of clothes, he had not hesitated, to call upon his good aunt for assistance. The immediate result of his application has been seen, for, although the little trunk was fastened with a hasp and padlock, the key was in a place accessible to Dinah, who had no more thought of giving offence by her act than had the luckless servants of Prince Aladdin when they gladly exchanged "old lamps for new" with the wily African magician. 
                  It was with difficulty that Joe overcame his repugnance to approaching Hawksley's house, of which, with every thing pertaining to the lawyer, he had the greatest dread. But he was desperate now, and making a wide detour to escape observation from the windows of the office, a small building which stood in the corner of the lot, a few yards from the dwelling, he gained the kitchen door and glided quickly in. 
                  Where was Tim, he hastily asked of one of the servants, and Tim was in the barn, hammering away at something, was the answer, followed by wondering exclamations as to what was the matter with old Joe, as the latter hurried out of the house, and ran across the yard to the barn. 
                  The first object that met the old negro's eyes as he opened the bam door, was his slender nephew, standing erect beside the borrowed trunk, with his mouth, fingers, and pockets full of small nails, which were projecting from him on every side, and caused him to look not unlike a sprouting crowbar. A hammer lay before him, and the already neatly restored lining showed that his work was nearly accomplished, while a nod and a good natured grunt, such as could be made without dropping the nails from his lips, greeted his visiter. 
                  "Where is it, Tim? where is it?" exclaimed the old man with agony, thrusting his hand inside the box, and seeking vainly to find the aperture in the lining. 
                  "Where is wot, old boy?" said Tim, grinning; take care dare-don't tear dem nail off. Wot is it you're lookin' for, hay?" 
                  Joe, in the meantime, was fumbling nervously on the outside of the lining, to see if he could ascertain by pressure, the presence of the momentous paper beneath; but, alas! all was, smooth and uniform to the touch. 
                  "Oh, Tim!" he exclaimed, with anguish, "the-the-the paper-where is it? where is it? 
                  "O-o-h! that paper that was in there, do you mean? Was that yours? I thought it was somethin' stuffed in to fill up the hole and keep the mice out-I did, I 'clare, Uncle Joe," said Tim, beginning to look scared. 
                  "And what did you do with it, Tim?" asked the old man, partly relieved at the idea that the lad had destroyed it. 
                  "Oh, it aint lost!" said the other eagerly; you see, at first, I thought it was an old writin' book, all wrote full, and wasn't of no use to no body; and it didn't look jes like that, either, and so for fear it mout be good for somethin' I gave it to little Neddy, and ax him to take it to his pa in de office, and find out wot it wos!" 
                  "Oh, Tim, oh Tim! You didn't sartain do that!" exclaimed Joe, gasping for breath, and catching at a joist for support to his trembling frame. 
                  "Why, sartain I did, Uncle Joe," said the lad, "and there goes Neddy now, dilly-dallying with it-see, he is jes going up the office steps." 
                  Joe's blood seemed to turn round, such a shiver of terror ran through him. He rallied, however, and with desperation leaped out of the barn, ran across the yard, shouting to the boy as he went, and overtook the latter, while, with finger upon the office latch, he waited curiously to see what was wanted. Hawksley, attracted by the noise, opened the door at the same moment, and Joe, terrified only short of madness, snatched the will from the child's hand, and with his own, shaking like an aspen, thrust it crushed and crumpled into his pocket. 
                  "Heydey! heydey!" exclaimed the lawyer, of course perfectly free from any suspicion of the true state of the case. What's the meaning of all this?" 
                  "It's mine!" said Joe, with lips fairly white with fear, while his trembling frame, his immensely dilated eyes, and his quivering voice told the intensity of his agitation; its mine, I say-dat's all, Massa Hawksley." 
                  "Yours! Well, supposing it is yours, why do you come yelling like a wild Indian on my premises, you scoundrel. I have a mind to have you whipped on the spot. Let me see it. What is it?" he added, extending his hand. 
                  "Its-its mine," said Joe, backing off, and looking still more frightened. 
                  Tim came up at this moment, and explaining to his master the circumstances about the borrowed trunk, confirmed Joe's statement that the paper, whatever it was belonged to him, adding, by way probably, of protesting against "the right of search" or detention, "and Uncle Joe's a free man." 
                  "And so all this hubbub is about some old writing book, is it?" said the lawyer; "go give the old idiot his box, and send him home, and let him see that he keeps off of ray grounds in future!" and he re-entered his office, taking with him his child. 
                  "Keep off his grounds!" said Joe, walking rapidly away, and looking back at every third step; "ony jes let me git off of 'em once, and I'll keep off, for sartain, jes as I would off the Ole Harry's ground, for ever and ever. Amen;" which last word the negro uttered quite mechanically, and as the usual accompaniment in his mind of its immediate predecessors. 
                  The old man hastened to his home greatly relieved, and when he had gained its shelter, he sat down and pondered for a long time upon his fearful adventure, after which, clinging with singular tenacity to his one idea of peril, he again carefully bestowed the will in a place of safe keeping. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER X. 
                  HUBERT BRANDON was a happy man. Not in the mere consciousness of wealth, or in the selfish enjoyment of it, but happy in the bliss of those most dear to him, in the means of doing good, and in the opportunity for that undisturbed intellectual culture, and those increased scientific attainments, which had long been the objects of his ardent wishes. His choice, but limited library, was rapidly augmented by valuable and extensive additions in every branch of knowledge, but more especially in the departments of astronomy and natural history, subjects in which his contemplative and devout mind found ever increasing stores of gratification and delight. He caused an observatory to be built upon his house, and transmitted orders abroad for the construction of a powerful telescope, promising to himself and daughter, from this one source alone, an almost ceaseless flow of pleasure; for it seemed to him that he should thus be the possessor of a key with which to unlock, at will, the depths of space, and open to his view all the hidden glories of the universe. 
                  He had hitherto exclusively conducted his daughter's tuition, and he designed still to devote to it his best powers, for he found in Bell an enthusiastic and zealous pupil, prompt to learn, and unspeakably delighted with every new acquisition. 
                  While he was seated, on a fine morning, in his library, a few days prior to the occurrence of the events last related, Bell suddenly entered the room, her beaming countenance giving token of some new tidings to be revealed, or some new project to be suggested. It could not be the news of Halley's poposals, for they had been already made known to, and heartily ratified by Hubert, who had long entertained the highest regard for his now expected son-in-law, and whose counsel had even contributed to shorten the interval which was to have preceded the nuptials. 
                  "We must do something for the Dibbs family, papa," she said abruptly, "for, although they attempted to defraud us, they are our relations, you know, and are really suffering from poverty-and then, it is so easy to assist them." 
                  "I have been thinking of this, my love," replied Hubert, pleased that the thought had emanated from his daughter; "but how did you learn their necessity?" 
                  "Indirectly, at first, from several sources, since which I have caused inquiries to be made, and find that their place is advertised for sale-" 
                  "In default of three thousand dollars which he has tried every means in vain to procure-and he has already selected a cheap cottage to rent, when compelled to give up possession of his house." 
                  "Why, you know all about it, papa!" 
                   
                  "Yes, from Mr. Miles, to whom he has applied for assistance. They are much humbled, he says, and his daughters propose to open a school. What do you purpose to do for them?" 
                  "Why, I thought that Miranda, who seems to be a good and sensible girl, would be the proper medium of communication between us and them, as she is really the only one of the family with whom we are on speaking terms, and that we might place in her hands the means of paying off the debt-that is, if-if it meets your approbation." 
                  "Most fully, dear Bell; only I would manage it a little differently, and while really benefiting the whole family, your favor might be more particularly directed to your unoffending cousin. I will attend the sale, purchase the property, and present it in your name to Miranda. By these means also, it may be protected against the danger of being again sold for the future debts of the father, whose endless speculations have been so ruinous to him." 
                  "Oh, that will be exactly the thing: I did not know that could be done, and I am sure that Miranda is a good girl, as well as pretty; because Louisa, who knows her well, says that she is really very amiable, and that Letitia and her mother quite hate her, and are always decrying her." 
                  "Pretty good credentials of character," said Hubert, laughing. "I shall begin to believe in her merit myself, with such convincing proof; why, you will make her fortunes quite those of a Cinderella; instead of being the scorn, she will become the envy of her relations, who will be even dependant upon her." 
                  Dibbs, meanwhile, who had exhausted all efforts to redeem his homestead, awaited despairingly the hour in which the public auctioneer was to offer it to the highest bidder. Adversity had not improved his character, and he was still as ready as ever, in the smaller system of business to which he had descended, to advance, by all tortuous means, his interests, and to obtain indirect advantages over those who dealt in frankness and sincerity with him. Yet he was in some degree humbled, for inferior minds are always quickest to feel the disgrace of poverty, while they are altogether callous to the more merited obloquy which attaches to prosperous vice. 
                  The dreaded day arrived, and sour faces were seen, and harsh and petulant voices were heard at the breakfast table of the bankrupt Dibbs, who, by way of a relish to his meal, was reminded for the fiftieth time that month, by his slatternly wife, that his misfortunes were his own fault, and were the consequences of not taking her advice. Mutual reproaches passed, but Martha, as usual, obtained much the advantage of the skirmish, especially as she was assisted by an aide-de-camp of her own tutoring, in the flippant Letitia, and Solomon took refuge from the combined attack, in a morose silence, like a man quite habituated to such scenes, and who never dreamed of looking for "aid and comfort" in his calamities, from the wife of his bosom or the child of his love. 
                  Miranda alone mingled not in the storm, and even sought, when apart from her mother and sister, to administer some hope and consolation solation to her father, by hinting at the resources for comfort which would yet remain to them in their new home, but she received few thanks for her endeavors. 
                  The sale was to be on the premises, and, at the appointed hour, a crowd assembled at the house; of whom many were drawn by idle curiosity, or by the malignant desire to behold the downfall of a neighbor; while others came with a view to purchase, and went roaming freely through the house and grounds to examine their condition and estimate their value. 
                  Mrs. Dibbs and Letitia shut themselves up in their room, and gave way to unavailing tears, while Miranda mourned in the garden over a bed of choice and valuable exotic plants which she had intended, later in the fall, to place in vases, for the house, and which she now doubted her right to remove. She resolved, however, not to give them up, without an effort; and she hastened into the house, just as the officer of the law was beginning the sale, and boldly interrupted him by asking him whether she was at liberty to take away the plants, which she said had been presented to her, and had never belonged to her father. How she summoned courage to make the request, she did not know, for she was a timid girl of seventeen years, and quite unused to kindness, but her heart was bound up in the flowers, probably for the want of something else to love. 
                  "No, no, no!" replied the speaking voice of a miserly looking old man, who stood near her, and who, as the mortgagee of the property, gave instructions to the auctioneer; "nothing must be removed; they are part of the freehold-part of the freehold-which is poor enough at the best." 
                  "They are certainly mine, sir," replied Miranda, turning towards him a moist eye, "and it is unjust to sell them." 
                  "The law don't know you-the law don't know you at all," said the little old man! "the property is poor enough-poor enough at the best; what with interest, costs, and disbursements, I shall never get my money back in the world. Go on, Mr. Prynne-go on; they are part of the freehold, and the law don't know her." 
                  As Miranda turned away, she saw the mild large eyes of Hubert Brandon fixed earnestly upon her, and there seemed so much kindness in their expression, that she took hope with the thought that he might become the purchaser, and that he would surely consent to the removal of her plants. She went on arguing with much earnestness and simplicity, in her own mind, the question, if the purchaser, whoever he might be, should really know that the flowers were hers, and that she had nothing else in the world which she could call her own, whether he would not probably let her have them, even although they were part of the freehold, and although she had the misfortune to be unknown to the law. 
                  Dibbs entered the auction room at this juncture, and saw with much surprise and some anger, that Mr. Brandon was present, for he supposed that Hubert had only come to profit by his misfortunes. But as competition was what he desired, he did not long regret his rich relation's presence, and contented himself with avoiding any direct meeting with him. 
                  The bidding began by an offer from the old miser, of about half the amount of his claim, and as the property was really worth much more than the debt, it was speedily run up to the sum of three thousand dollars, at which price it would have been struck off to the mortgagee, had not Hubert, who had remained silent until then, offered a larger sum, and at once became the purchaser. Dibbs hastened with much bitterness to inform his wife who had bought the place, and Mr. Brandon, passing a check to the auctioneer for the amount of his bid, accompanied it with a few words in an under tone, and, shortly after, received from the officer a deed, which, having been prepared in advance, had wanted only the name of the new owner to render it complete. 
                  Inside and outside the magical document bore the name of Edward Miles as trustee for Miranda Dibbs, and Hubert, placing it in his pocket, strolled into the garden, in pursuit of the young lady, whom he found standing mournfully among her cherished flowers, as if resolved to guard them to the last. 
                  "I have bought this place," said Hubert, as he approached near to Miranda, "and-" 
                  "-And you will let me have these," she replied, impulsively, pointing to the ground, and encouraged by the mild and benevolent look which she encountered; "they really were mine, and they are worth nothing to a man, though-" she paused a moment irresolutely; "Miss Brandon might like them, of course; I did not think of that." 
                  "Miss Brandon is very fond of flowers!" 
                  "Then, perhaps she would divide them with me," said Miranda, a tear, unknown to herself, trembling on her eyelid; "or she will at least let me have some of the smaller ones; I really would not ask it as a charity," she continued, with the utmost simplicity; "but they were all mine, and if I had understood the law, I should never have put them in the ground. I have vases for every one of them. See," she continued, pointing to several rows of red earthen jars, of all sizes, on a back piazza; "there are six dozen flower pots." 
                  "Are those flowers very beautiful?" 
                  "Oh! they are so beautiful! Only a few are in bloom now; Miss Brandon shall have all the finest-I will tell her exactly what they all will be when they are in flower, and then she can tell me which and how many of them I may have. See, here is-" 
                  "Dear child!" said Hubert, dashing some obtrusive tears from his eyes, "do you think so ill of my daughter as to believe that she would take one of your loved plants away from you, merely because she may have a legal right to them? They told me you were good, and artless, and gentle, and I am glad to become convinced that it is all true; nay, more, that you are even like my Bell, and surely that is high praise for me to award." 
                  Miranda opened her large eyes in astonishment and gazed confidingly into those of her companion. 
                   
                  "You are indeed, very kind," she said; "I am quite unused to the voice of-of commendation, and have been taught to believe that I did not deserve it. Indeed, I fear that I do not: but you are very, very kind. I may really have all the plants, then?" she added, with a beaming smile of joy. 
                  "Yes, all." 
                  "I really thank you very much, but you must allow me to present Miss Brandon with a few choice dahlias, as an acknowledgment for her kindness. She will excuse me for having misjudged her so much. I did not know what to think. I believe it has not been my fortune to meet many good people, and then I had that old man's words ringing in my ears that my plants were part of the freehold, and I was unknown to the law; and I supposed I was unknown," she added, smiling, "not only to the law, but to every body else." 
                  "You shall not remain unknown to us in future, my dear child, if I can prevent it," replied Hubert; "what do you say, shall we be friends?" 
                  "I can never be other than a friend to you both, in my heart," replied Miranda, glancing expressively at the bed of plants. 
                  "But Bell wishes to confer a more substantial benefit upon you, Miranda, and one that may save you from poverty, and be also a help to your father and his family. She has requested me, in short, to purchase this place for you, and to give it to you. I have obeyed her, and this is the deed; see, it is given to Mr. Miles as trustee for you because you are not of age. This house and lot are now yours, just as fully as they were heretofore your father's, and there is no longer any mortgage upon them." 
                  From red to white, and from white to red again, turned the cheeks of the listener, as in silence, and in utter astonishment, she heard these words. 
                  "It is not possible that you are jesting with me," she said, at length; "you could not be so cruel, and yet it is impossible to believe that this is all reality. Mine?-mine! all this beautiful place; house, garden, orchard, and all? And we shall not have to move out of it at all? Oh, how shall I ever thank you, or repay dear Miss Brandon for her goodness! Surely she deserves to be rich, who is so kind." 
                  In the earnestness of her feelings, Miranda had approached nearer to Hubert as she spoke, and gazed intently into his face, unconscious of the sparkling tears which stood in her eyes, and gave an added brilliancy to their light. 
                  "You are a good, grateful girl," said Brandon, "and I am satisfied that Bell's kindness is in this instance well bestowed. Do not talk of thanks, or of repaying favors; we will trust to your heart for all that;" and, extending his hand, he bade her a hasty adieu, and turned away before she could make any further reply. 
                  When he reached home, and recounted the whole scene to his daughter; when he told her of Miranda's pleading for her plants with the old miser, and all the details of the interview in the garden, Bell's tears flowed fast and free down her beautiful cheeks. 
                  Oh, what would I have given to have seen it all!" she exclaimed; "how glad I am that you thought of giving it to her! What a pity that we had not known her before! and she shall have a marriage portion too, shan't she, papa?" and Bell ran away to tell it all to her friend Louisa, while her father watched her retiring form with renewed joy and affection. 
                  "Truly," he said, "it is more blessed to give than to receive." 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XI. 
                  ELIHU HAWKSLEY was, without doubt, a very astute man, and one who seldom overlooked any thing which affected his pecuniary interests. But he had long ceased to think about the affair of the lost will, and at the moment that he was called out of his office by the clamor of Joe, he was intently engaged in preparing some legal papers for use at the Columbia Circuit, which he was about setting out to attend. These circumstances, and the shortness of the interview with the negro, quite prevented his thinking seriously about the interruption at the time, or in any way linking the incident with the momentous subject of the will. 
                  When, however, an hour or two later in the day, with more leisure to reflect, he recalled the vision of the terrified negro to mind, he was at once forcibly struck with the great disproportion between the alarm displayed by the latter, and the apparent cause of it. If the paper which Joe had pursued and obtained were his own, it could be nothing of great value, and whatever its value, there was no danger of its loss at the moment that he raised so great an outcry about it, and displayed such inordinate anxiety to repossess himself of it. The negro could not have apprehended that Hawksley would openly rob him of his property, even if it were any thing which could enure to the benefit of the latter, and the conclusion followed that the paper must have been something which Joe was afraid to permit him to see.
                   
                  This suspicion, after a moment's contemplation, began to assume the character of a certainty, and he was only surprised that he had not sooner perceived its force. But suspicion could not pause amid those generalities. The paper-the negro-his master, Hubert Brandon-the Kentrips property-the lost will! Along this chain of association, thought, like electricity, leaped with instantaneous motion, and Hawksley sprang from his chair and rapidly traversed the room, overpowered with the stunning conviction at which he had arrived. The last will and testament of Mrs. Kentrips, which would make Dibbs a Crsus, and himself rich, was in existence, and had within two hours been almost within his hands. 
                   
                  He at once summoned Tim to his presence, and obtained from him as minute a description of the shape of the paper and the appearance of the writing as the memory of the lad could furnish, and every particular which he thus elicited added, of course, strong confirmation to his already firm belief. But when, without prompting, Tim spoke of the seal at the bottom of the sheet, and of the ribbon by which its upper edges were joined, Hawksley could no longer entertain the shadow of a doubt, and his first impulse was to rush impetuously in pursuit of the negro, and forcibly regain the document, but a moment's reflection convinced him of the folly of such an attempt. 
                  He at once sent for Dibbs, who had long abandoned his exalted hopes, and communicated to him the events of the day; thereby nearly upsetting the reason of his impoverished client, whose extreme agitation prevented him for some time from either suggesting or listening to any plan of action. Not that he was in any wise oppressed with a sense of obligation to Mr. Brandon for the great favor recently bestowed upon his family, which, although he had greatly rejoiced at, he spoke of only as a restoration of a very small portion of his rights. 
                  "Let us go, then, at once," he said at length, "with officers and a warrant for Joe's arrest, and with power to search the house for the will." 
                  "It will not do," replied Hawksley, "as long as the negro's alarm is but partially subsided, for our coming would be discovered, its cause suspected, and the paper destroyed. Let ns rather wait until all fears are allayed, and then seek our ends by more quiet and more certain means; for if we fail in one open attempt it will be fatal to our whole scheme. Joe has had some reason for preserving the will so long, and that reason, whatever it is, will operate still, if he remains undisturbed." 
                  "But Mr. Brandon-" 
                  "-Knew nothing of this fraud; else he would never have preserved the will; much less have left it in the keeping of that witless negro. If we dared venture making a private appeal to him-" 
                  "By no means," exclaimed Solomon, hastily, who judged all hearts by his own; "it would be ruinous; the paper will be reduced to ashes the moment he hears of its existence, and then every thing is lost. But I much fear we are mistaken in our suspicions, for why should the negro have left his work half done, and why has he kept his master in ignorance of it?" 
                  "He has been afraid to disclose it, or he has hesitated about retracing his steps, and claiming the large reward," replied the lawyer, who had been for some time preserving an appearance of intense thought; "I am certain we are right; the will is in existence, and if we are prudent, we shall recover it." 
                  Hawksley was a good judge of men, and he fully acquitted Mr. Brandon of all knowledge of the felony, by which the estate had been secured to his daughter, yet he did not feel certain that he might not now connive at the crime, if he should become acquainted with it, on the ground that it favored a natural right, and that there had been prior fraud on the part of Dibbs. He little knew the unswerving integrity of Hubert, who scorned, from the depths of an honest heart, those shallow and sophistical arguments which would justify opposing fraud with its own weapons, or "doing evil that good may come." 
                  But Solomon found it sufficiently easy to believe that Brandon was the principal in the crime which had been committed, and that the negro had only been his agent; an unfaithful one, indeed, who had secretly retained a fearful power in his own hands. Had he been capable of rendering justice to his rich and envied relations, he might, without recourse to stratagem, have obtained from them every facility for ferreting out the suspected crime, and however painful the result, a complete acquiescence in all the consequences to which it might lead. 
                  "I have the utmost confidence in your judgment, Hawksley," he said, at length, "and will be guided wholly by it; but pray, tell me, what are your plans?" 
                  "Leave me time to concoct them," said the lawyer, not removing his gaze from the table, where for some minutes it had rested fixedly; "go home, and return at this time to-morrow, or when I send for you; there's your hat-good morning." 
                  Dibbs obeyed in silence, quite awed by the thoughtful look of the lawyer, and very certain that something must come of it. Surely, nothing could withstand twenty-four hours' cogitation of a man whose off-hand opinions were worth two pound ten. 
                  Scarcely had he withdrawn, when Hawksley sounded a bell, and when it was answered, he ordered Tim to be sent to him. The negro came speedily, and waited, hat in hand, for his orders. 
                  "Tim, would you like to be a free man?" said the lawyer abruptly. 
                  "Golly, massa, would'nt I though!" said Tim; "I'd rather own myself than both your bays." 
                  "How would you like to own yourself and one of my bays?" 
                  "What, me own a horse!" said Tim, laughing; "I'd like it mighty much, massa Hawksley; I can't tell you how much; dat more than I can speak." 
                  "Tim," said the lawyer, scarcely heeding the replies of the lad, "you can be both free and the owner of Lord Nelson, (who is a little spavined,) if you are sharp and shrewd, and will faithfully perform what I bid you; but if you flinch, and, above all, if you say a word to any one of what I am going to tell you, you shall be whipped once a day for the next six weeks; do you understand?" 
                  It was with a calm business air that Hawksley proposed these terms, without any threatening tone, and coolly taking a pinch of snuff as he spoke. 
                  "Yes, massa, I understand about de hoss and de floggin', but I don't know what I got to do. I'm a little afeared, and p'raps you'd better try Sambo." 
                  "Sambo is too bungling; you need not be afraid; you shall not be flogged if you do your best, but remember that your freedom depends upon your success." 
                   
                  "And de boss!" said Tim, not willing that that part of the bargain should be forgotten. 
                  "And the horse," said Hawksley. 
                  He then proceeded carefully to explain to the lad, greatly to his astonishment, that his only task was to re-obtain possession of the paper which he had had that day in his hands, and to bring it to him. He assured him that no harm should come to Joe or Dinah, instructed him minutely in the manner in which he was to proceed, and enjoined him strictly against in any way letting the old negro suspect his wishes, or Suspect that he knew any thing about the importance of the paper. In short he mapped out to him, as it were, Tim's line of conduct so plainly, and dwelt so repeatedly on the more important parts, that the lad, shrewd by nature, quickly imbibed all his master's views on the subject, as became apparent by his apt responses and suggestions. 
                  As Tim's moral education had emanated in a great degree from his master, it is not surprising that he did not comprehend the perfidy of his proposed conduct. He only required an earnest assurance that his old relations should in no wise be harmed, and for the rest he took the lawyer's word that it was all right, and that he would be responsible for all consequences. 
                  Hawksley's plan, at once adroit and bold, was one which, if it should not lead to success, would at least create no suspicion, and would leave the way open for other schemes, as Tim was in no way to reveal his designs, excepting in the event of seeing his way quite clearly to their completion, whereas an open compulsory search, if abortive, might be forever fatal to his hopes. The particulars of the plot it will be unnecessary here to relate, further than to say that the negro was to pay a seemingly friendly visit to his relations on the next evening, armed with a loaded pistol, for the purpose of making a signal, if necessary, to his accessaries, who, in the persons of Hawksley, Dibbs, and two police officers, were to lie in wait in an adjoining garden. The borrowed trunk was first to be sent home, and it was hoped that it would again prove the receptacle of the important writing on which so many and such momentous interests seemed to depend. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XII. 
                  THE confederates assembled in the office of the lawyer on the evening appointed for their enterprise, where, before proceeding to their respective posts, a few last words of iterated counsel, and directions were bestowed upon Tim, who was particularly instructed, among other things, in the art and mystery of firing a pistol. 
                  Ten minutes later, and the traitorous lad was seated cozily along side of Joe and Dinah, in an upper back room of Mr. Brandon's house, which had been specially set apart for the use of the old couple, and the direct access to which from below was by, the kitchen stairs. The visiter was, as usual, cordially received, and was promptly regaled by some choice cookies saved from the kitchen table, a store of which the old negress usually kept laid aside for such occasions, not by any means furtively, for Aunt Dine's right to the best of every thing in the house, was considered quite unquestionable. 
                  Tim's reception, indeed, was one which made him quite ashamed of his treacherous design, but he dared not to recede, and he was lured on by the magnificent prize which had been held out to him. They will only be a little frightened, thought Tim, and we will all have a good laugh over it together afterwards, and then, he argued, if the old man should continue otherwise unappeasable, why he would even give him the spavined Lord Nelson as a peace-offering, and would not that pay him a thousand fold for his musty old papers? He felt, indeed, quite certain that he might strike a successful bargain with Joe on the spot, without recourse to force or stratagem, but he had been strictly forbidden to make any such attempt, or to diverge in any way from the letter of his instructions. 
                  Hawksley had not been mistaken in supposing that the singular event of the day in which Joe had made such a public exhibition of his affright, would become a topic of conversation between the sable friends; indeed, Tim was quite at liberty, if necessary, to introduce it himself, as one which would naturally arise out of the circumstances. Yet not in the hearing of Dinah would the old man allude to it, and Tim found himself under the necessity of making the first advance to the subject. 
                  "I say, old fellow," he said, at length, "you was mighty skairt this mornin' about your old trumpery papers, wa'nt you? Wot you make sich a rumpus for 'bout nothin'?" 
                  Joe looked with an alarmed air at his wife, shook his head significantly at his nephew, and remained silent. 
                  "Wot's that you say about papers?" said the negress, "Joe haint got any papers, but he did act the foolishest about the old trunk; no body could'nt have acted foolisher, that's a fact:" and the old woman laughed with hearty good will and hearty good nature, in which both her companions joined, but not quite so naturally, nor with so decided a relish. 
                  Tim, with ready tact, desisted from immediately pressing that point, and with a manner calculated to avert suspicion, said: 
                  "Was'nt the trunk mended nice, Aunt Dine? Joe, bring it here, and let me show you what I did to it." 
                  "No-no-Tim," said Joe, hastily, "it's too much trouble for the old woman; it's put clean away with ever so many things piled on top of it; it was done beautiful, sartain, and Dine saw it this mornin'." 
                  Tim watched narrowly the countenance and manner of the old man as he said these words, and drew his conclusion almost as decidedly as Hawksley himself would have done, that the object of his search was again in its former hiding place. 
                   
                  "Well, show me where it is; I'll lug it out myself, and put it all back again snug," he said, seizing a candle, "p'raps it wants a few more nails, and I've brought some along with me." 
                  "It don't want nothin'," said Joe, emphatically, "let it alone, I say, and put that candle down." 
                  "It's in the corner of the closet," said the old woman to Tim, not noticing the emotion of her husband, nor supposing he had any serious intentions of opposing the lad's wish to examine his handiwork. 
                  Intent upon his scheme, Tim approached the closet, candle in hand, and with quick step, while the old man, who, although tolerably spry, when once fairly in motion, was too stiff and rheumatic in his joints to rise quickly from his chair, was several seconds in getting upon his feet. 
                  "Come back, boy! come back, I say!" he shouted angrily, hobbling after his nephew, but before he could overtake him, the latter was in the dark corner of the dark closet, had whisked a pile of blankets off the top of the trunk, and was already dragging it towards the door. 
                  "I tell-a you to stop!" roared Joe, "don't you hare me?" putting his hand on the box to prevent its further progress. 
                  "Why, uncle Joe, I've got it out now, and it ain't a bit of trouble; I'll put it all back again, snugly," he said, coaxingly. 
                  Dinah, a little deaf, had still not noticed the earnestness of her husband's manner, neither in the honest simplicity of her heart, could she imagine any reason for opposition to the lad's movements. Had she done so, she would not have committed the very perilous act, which she now performed, of taking down the key from its nail over the mantelpiece, following with it into the little room, and tossing it to Tim. 
                  "Do let the boy see it, ef he wants to, can't you?" she said: "he won't get much gold out of it, I guess! What's the use acting so contraryish?" 
                  Joe, thus urged on both sides, and fearful that further opposition would excite suspicion, consented that the trunk might be opened, but insisted that nothing should be taken out, as all his Sunday clothing was nicely packed within it. He knew that Tim had already seen the paper, and thought that even if he should see it again, it would do no harm, as, like himself, he was totally unable to read. 
                  But he who had seen the fierce, snake-like look with which the young negro's eyes penetrated into the interior of the box, in the moment that its lid was raised, rolling rapidly to and fro in their orbits, while his bent head remained motionless, would have guessed at some sinister motive, or augured some dangerous design. 
                  "It's all very nice and smooth," he said, running his hand over the lining of the top and gradually approached a part which swelled out a little above the level surface around it, and near to which, on the edge of the lid, a couple of tacks had been removed, thus making a sort of pocket. 
                  "Mighty nice," he said; "very different from the old rags that was here afore; I shall charge you half a dollar for this job, uncle Joe; wat dat?" he said, as pausing, with his hand upon the protuberant spot, he pressed it down, and a slight crackling sound, as of paper, was heard beneath. 
                  "Nothing," said Joe, hastily, and attempting to shut the trunk. 
                  But Tim's shoulder was against the lid, and his long black fingers were already gliding inside the opening where the tacks had been removed, and before Joe could prevent it, the concealed document was pulled up far enough to be visible at the edge of the aperture. 
                  At this moment, however, Tim felt the forcible grasp of the old man upon his wrist, staying its further progress, and heard his angry voice, ordering him to desist, and put the paper back; a command which he complied with, but not before convincing himself, to his great exultation, that the hidden treasure was certainly the same which he had handled in the morning, and the recovery of which was to secure to him so great a reward. 
                  "What is it?" said Tim, coolly. 
                  "It is mine!" replied the old man, emphatically; "nebber mind what it is." 
                  "Is it the same that you like to lost dis mornin'?" asked the lad, grinning. 
                  Joe looked carefully around to see that his wife was not observing him, and then nodded in the affirmative, resolving at the same instant to find a new place of concealment for it on the morrow. 
                  The lad paused a moment in irresolution, contemplating the bold feat of taking forcible possession of the prize and making good his retreat with it, but a remembrance of the old man's muscular strength, and of the powerful auxiliary which he would doubtless have in Aunt Dine, deterred him from the attempt. Besides, he did not so far disobey orders, and the next thing that pertained to him to do, in pursuance of his instructions, did not admit of hesitation or doubt. 
                  He stepped, therefore, quickly to the window, threw it up, drew his pistol from his pocket, and trembling violently with excitement, he discharged it into the air. 
                  A simultaneous scream from Dinah rang through the apartment, while Joe, utterly astonished, stood for a moment, gazing stupidly and with open mouth upon his nephew. Suspicion, however, of foul play, dawned speedily upon his mind, for his fears kept him vigilant whenever the subject of the stolen will was in his thoughts, and all his apprehensions turned into a harrowing certainty when, at the next moment, he heard the kitchen door below suddenly and rudely opened, and heard the Curried steps and voices of strangers in the house. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XIII. 
                  BELL and her father were quietly seated alone in one of their parlors, after the hour of tea, Louisa having retired to her room, and the time for Frank Halley's now invariable evening visit having not quite arrived. The contemplated wedding had been a subject of discussion, and also the gorgeous party by which it was to be celebrated, the invitations for which were already given but. 
                  But Bell, whose heart overflowed with happiness, was incapable of being selfish in her joy, which seemed to give a new impulse to her ever-flowing generosity. 
                  "Papa," she said, thoughtfully, after a pause in the conversation, "how much did you tell me our income is?" 
                  "Your income, my love," said Hubert, emphasizing the pronoun, is about forty thousand dollars a year. Mr. Agnew, who by the way, proves to be a shrewd business man, and takes delight in calling himself your steward, says it will exceed, rather than fall short of that sum." 
                  "By the way," said Miss Brandon, "that reminds me that the dear old man must have his salary increased, and must have another assistant; he is too old to be confined five or six hours a day in an office." 
                  "He is too old to be confined less than that," replied the father, laughing, "and will not, I assure you, hear of either more help or more compensation. He has really very little to do since he had his clerk, or secretary as he calls him, and a thousand a year is quite enough for a man who spends nothing," 
                  "Well, we must do something for him," said Bell, rather nonplussed by the idea that the object of her benevolent wishes was in want of nothing; "but it was not that I was going to speak of at present. You say our income is about forty thousand. Five or six thousand a year must certainly be the extent of what we can reasonably spend upon ourselves. What is to be done with all the rest." 
                  "Why as much of it as you do not dispose of in charity will be added yearly to your principal." 
                  "And pray, what good will that do when the principal is already so large that we have no use for the income? That will only increase the difficulty by making our revenue greater and greater every year, for you tell me also that the property is rapidly increasing in value." 
                  "It bids fair to rise full fifty per cent, within the next three years." 
                  Bell's smooth white forehead wrinkled for a few moment's, as if With perturbed thought; she seemed to be in a new sense experiencing the embarrassment of riches. 
                  "I wish to dispose of all the income, if you please, papa," she said, at length, with the utmost simplicity of manner; "that is to say, of all my half, for half of it is yours, and that is another thing to be arranged. I will speak," she added, blushing, "to-to Frank about it this very evening, and it shall all be done according to law; I have legal counsel, now, you know, for Frank is a lawyer." 
                  "Do as you please, Bell," said her father; but the world will call you a pair of precious simpletons for giving away half your property." 
                  "Yes, but I want you to have it, papa, and you shall have it; you know you often have said and proved it too, when we were poor, that you would do any thing to please me, and nothing will please me more than this. I want you to be rich. Whatever advantage there is in the mere name of possessing wealth I want you to have. That is all you have ever lacked. You have every thing which the world looks upon with reverence-talent, and learning-and-and goodness," she added, wreathing her arm softly around his neck, "and now I want you to be rich." 
                  Hubert kissed the tear-moistened cheek which had approached his own; with an access of affectionate joy that for the time rendered him incapable of replying to the tender and beseeching tones of his daughter. 
                  But Bell instantly rallied gayly from her own emotion. 
                  "It shall be," said she, laughing, "you need not answer; but all this is only another episode, and is not what I was about to speak of when I inquired the extent of our income. To-morrow, I have learned from Frank, is his father's birth day; he is poor, I know; clergymen are seldom rich; but from a sewing who has worked in the family, Louisa accidentally learned that they must be really quite poor, and that Frank had even contributed to their support from his small professional income. The old gentleman's salary is small, and his family is large, and we know that Frank's sisters dress more plainly than such pretty girls would do from choice." 
                  "Well, well, Bell, I see all this; I have not the least doubt of its truth; what then?" 
                  "Why then, papa, if you please, to-morrow is his birth day, and as he is a clergyman he will not take offence, you know, for every body gives to clergymen, and I thought I should like to have you send him a check for-for-how much may I send, papa?" 
                  Hubert laughed. 
                  "How much did you think of sending, Bell?" he said. 
                  "Why, I thought, if you approved it, ten thousand dollars." 
                  "Nice round numbers and a very pretty birth day present," said Hubert. "I will send it in the morning, in your name, with the greatest pleasure, my love, and have no doubt it will carry joy and gladness into their hearts. They will be your relations soon, and hereafter I have no doubt you will do much more for them." 
                  "Oh, that will be quite a matter of course, then," replied Bell, "but I feared they might be uncomfortable now; Oh, I am so glad that you approve of it." 
                   
                  The report of a pistol, and a loud, prolonged shriek from the upper part of the house was at this moment heard, and the father and daughter both sprang, in terror from their seats. A moment they stood listening, and then Hubert snatched a candle, and bidding his child to remain quiet, he darted up the staircase, and ran along an upper passage toward the apartment of the negroes, from which, as nearly as he could judge, the sound had seemed to proceed. At the end of the hall, and near to a door which opened into their room, he encountered Joe, who sprang past him, with a loose paper rattling in his hand, and ran swiftly in the opposite direction, imploring his master to follow him. Hubert obeyed, calling upon the negro to stop and explain the alarm, but he was unable to overtake him or to arrest his flight, until both had reached the parlor below, where Bell, nearly swooning with terror, awaited their approach. 
                  "Take it, Massa Brandon, take it," said the panting old man, thrusting the crumpled will into the hands of his master; put it in the fire, there, while I hold the door; quick, Massa, or your ruined for ever-quick! quick!" 
                  "What is it, Joe? What do you mean?" exclaimed Mr. Brandon, taking the paper, but looking only at the terrified servant. 
                  "Oh, quick, massa! They are coming! The police officers and Lawyer Hawksley and all! Oh, don't you hear 'em coming? Oh, put it in the fire, and nobody will ever know it!" 
                  "What is it, blockhead?" repeated Humbert, utterly unsuspicious of the truth; "have you stolen any thing, that the officers are in pursuit of you?" 
                  "THE WILL! THE WILL!" shouted Joe, jumping up and down with agitation; "IT'S MISSA KENTRIPS' WILL!" Yes, I stole um-(God forgib me)-a year ago! Oh, put it in de fire! quick, massa, quick!" 
                  White as the sculptured marble turned Hubert Brandon at these words, and equally colorless became Bell. He glanced a moment at the paper in his hands, saw its beginning, with the signature and the seal, and his whole frame seemed paralyzed by the dreadful truth that was forcing itself upon his mind. 
                  "Won't you burn it, massa?" repeated the negro in agony; "they have found the passage! They are coming! They will be here in a minute!" 
                  "It's too true!" said Mr. Brandon, addressing his daughter; "this is indeed, the will of your grandmother, and our dream of happiness is at an end! It would, indeed, be easy to insure safety by crime," he added, glancing at the fire, "but I need not ask you, clear Bell, if you could wish it!" 
                  "Father!" exclaimed Miss Brandon, looking reproachfully in the eyes of her parent. 
                  "Throw open the door, Joseph!" said Hubert; "quick, I command you, and show the officers of the law into this room!" 
                  As the negro tremblingly proceeded to obey, Brandon took his daughter's arm within his own, and stepping back to the side of a table, upon which lights were burning, awaited the entrance of his visiters. He was no stoic; his very heart seemed crushed within him by the weight of the calamity which had fallen upon him, and on the one dear object of his love. But he was strong in the integrity of his heart, which allowed him time to perceive but one path before him, and nerved him with courage to tread it, paved, as it was, with burning coals. 
                  Bell looked the angel that she was, in that hour of trial, arid although deeply terrified and grieved by the impending blow, her first solicitude was bestowed upon her father, whose extreme pallor and agitation was something she never before had beheld, and was now most anxious to dispel. She remained silent, however, only gazing timidly into his face, to watch the varying traces of emotion, while the noisy troop descended rapidly the front stairway, and guided by Joe, crowded into the parlor. 
                  "Stop, there!" said Hubert, loftily, waving his hand to Hawksley, who led the band and directed their movements; "stop and make known your errand, if, indeed, I do not already know it too well." 
                  Hawksley arrested his steps in the middle of the room, a little in advance of his companions, who, at his signal, also stopped, and as Joe had, by this time, skulked behind his master and his young mistress, on the other side of the apartment, the assembled individuals presented somewhat the appearance of two belligerent parties parleying before an encounter. 
                  "We are quite willing to believe," said Hawksley, with the utmost blandness of manner, "that until this hour you have been in ignorance of any cause that could justify a search of your house and premises by officers of the law. Your eyes, like ours, have recently been opened to a crime which has been committed for your benefit, but without your knowledge. You hold in your hand--" 
                  "The last will and testament of the late Mary Kentrips, ready to be delivered to who ever has the legal right to its possession," said Hubert firmly. 
                  "Have the goodness, then, to look at these papers," continued Hawksley, taking a step forward, and presenting his search warrant, which Mr. Brandon received, examined for half a minute, and then returned to the lawyer. He then again opened and carefully examined the will to see if it bore no mark of the testatrix, which was designed to abrogate or cancel it, but he was compelled to admit to himself that it was in all respects perfect and complete, and refolding it calmly, he handed it to Hawksley. 
                  Dibbs, eager and delighted, rushed to the side of his counsel, and with him glanced a few moments over the document. 
                  "Is it-is it all right?" said he, tremblingly. 
                  "Quite perfect and complete," was the response. 
                  "Then, let's have the cheers, gentlemen; this is my house, my block, my street, almost," said Solomon, turning to the police officers and Tim; "three cheers with a will;" and he swung his hat, by way of leading off the applause. 
                  "For shame, Mr. Dibbs!" said Hawksley, severely; "pray respect the feelings of our friends, who have acted so honorably." 
                   
                  "We thank you," said Herbert to Hawksley, "for doing us the justice to believe, even before we have asserted it, that we have had no agency in, or knowledge of this crime." 
                  "I don't know that," answered Dibbs, mortified at his rebuke; "cat's paws are very convenient, sometimes; but it's no matter, now, who is guilty or who is innocent; I shall not prosecute you criminally, nor Bell, either, since you are both our relations." 
                  "Prosecute whom and when you please," replied Hubert indignantly; "I claim no privilege or protection of relationship with you." 
                  "Tut, tut, gentlemen, no words," interposed Hawksley; "pray don't let us render this affair unnecessarily painful. Stop, Dibbs! not a word! Joe, step forward now, and tell us the whole story; make a clean breast of it, and you shan't be harmed either. You stole the will, we know; tell us how." 
                  Joe hesitated and resisted a good while, but on receiving repeated assurances that he should in no wise be harmed, he related all the details of his felony, with such a minuteness of circumstance, and such a correspondence to known facts as left not a doubt on the minds of the candid portion of his hearers, of the perfect truth of his story. 
                  "It may be true," said Dibbs; "but if it is not, he does right to shield his master. Come, let us go. I cannot take possession, I suppose, until the will is proved; but Mr. Brandon won't forget that in the mean time, he is not to receive any rent or interest, I suppose. You had better put an injunction on him in the morning," he added in a whisper to Hawksley, and without further adieux, the speaker withdrew, followed by his companions, of whom Hawksley alone tendered a respectful farewell to the fallen family. 
                
                
                  CHAPTEN XIV. 
                  DEEP grief has few words and no tears. Overwhelmed by the sense of a calamity so sudden, certain, and comprehensive, Hubert and his daughter sat for about half an hour, side by side, upon a sofa, nearly silent, seeking to fortify their minds to endurance, to school them to resignation, to elevate them to hope. An occasional remark upon the extraordinary event which had come to light, an occasional word of cheer or encouragement to look to the one source of comfort in affliction, alone interrupted their saddening reflections, until the hurried entrance of old Mr. Agnew, who had been absent from the house during the last eventful hour, and who, on his return, had heard from the domestics some imperfect account of what had taken place. 
                  With breathless interest and amazement the old man listened to the astonishing narrative of Mr. Brandon, casting from time to time a look of compassion on Bell, and before the story was fully told, he was rapidly traversing the room, rubbing his hands together with an air of the utmost excitement, muttering strange sounds to himself, and now and then, singularly enough, laughing outright. At length he stopped suddenly in front of Hubert and exclaimed, 
                  "Send for Frank Halley!" 
                  At the mention of her lover's name, Bell for the first time sobbed aloud, for she then remembered that the sad news was yet to be divulged to him. 
                  "He will be here soon enough for the tidings that await him," replied Hubert; "there is no need of sending for him." 
                  "Send for Frank Halley!" repeated Mr. Agnew, laughing strangely, and again starting on his rapid walk about the room, and after some minutes he again paused, rubbed his hands rapidly together, and said, as before- 
                  "Send for Frank Halley!" 
                  "It would be folly to send for him, my dear sir," replied Mr. Brandon; "he cannot help us, and it is even better that he should not come just yet." 
                  The old man stepped with an authoritative air to the bell-cord, which he pulled violently and rapidly thrice, and then turning toward the door, he awaitied the coming of the domestic whose duty it was to answer it, while Hubert and Bell exchanged glances of surprise, and seemed to doubt their old steward's sanity. Nor was their wonder diminished when the servant approached, and Mr. Agnew, without asking permission of his employer and patron, said- 
                  "Go to the Rev. Mr. Halley's-inquire for Mr. Frank, and tell him he is wanted here at Mr. Brandon's, without a moment's delay." 
                  "Mr. Agnew!" exclaimed Bell. 
                  "No such message must go in my name," said Mr. Brandon. 
                  "In mine, then!" said the old man; "say that Mr. Agnew wishes to see him; go quickly!" he continued, fairly thrusting the servant out of the room, lest his orders should be countermanded, and then following him out to bid him make all haste. 
                  In ten minutes, Frank, who had been detained at home by the illness of his father, entered the room, breathless with the haste that he had made to answer his extraordinary summons, for the servant had added to his message a confused and unintelligible account of the evening's proceedings, which had left the lover in utter ignorance of every thing, excepting that the family, including his beloved Bell, were in the greatest distress. 
                  Rushing up to Miss Brandon, he grasped her hand and exclaimed with pallid lips- 
                  "For Heaven's sake, Bell, tell me quickly what is the matter." 
                  "Nothing, Frank, excepting-don't he frightened, Frank-excepting that we have lost all our property!" 
                  "Is that all?" said Halley, pressing to his lips the hand which he still held; "I thank God that it is nothing worse." 
                   
                  "And yet, my dear children, it is no light calamity which has befallen you," said Hubert, who, with the experience of age, looked farther into the future than did either of his young companion. 
                  "It is true," replied Halley, who in his delight at finding that no personal harm had happened to Miss Brandon, had quite failed to realize the magnitude of the impending evil, and who now asked for an explanation, hoping even yet to find that the story was not literally true. But when the whole remarkable tale was not told, and he perceived how comprehensive and far-reaching was the evil which had overtaken them; when he reflected that Bell would be cast down from the pinnacle of wealth to absolute poverty, and that himself would become the by word of those who had so lately envied his, him, his high spirit quailed at first, and he scarcely found words of cheer or consolation to utter. 
                  He rallied, however, after a few moments; he reminded Bell that it would have been a thousand fold worse for him, if, as he had apprehended, any serious harm had befallen her; he spoke gayly of his own hopes and prospects, and infused something like courage into the hearts of his friends. 
                  "But we must prepare to render up possession to our successor," said Mr. Brandon; "who will be as little disposed to show lenity as we to accept it at his hands. Where is Mr. Agnew?" 
                  "Where is Frank Halley?" said the old man, bursting into the room at the same instant, for he had been absent since the time of despatching the messenger, "where's Frank Halley?" 
                  "Here!" replied the latter, like a man answering from the ranks to a military roll-call. 
                  "Isn't it funny, though?" said the old man. 
                  "Funny?-why, yes, rather," was the hesitating reply; "not so very funny, either." 
                  The old man laughed aloud. 
                  "It's the funniest affair I ever heard of," he said wiping his eyes. 
                  "My dear sir," interposed Mr. Brandon, "since you are really disposed to amuse yourself with our misfortunes, let me beg that you will find a more fitting place." 
                  "By no means; I must do it here," said Mr. Agnew; "no other place would answer as well." 
                  "Sir, I am yet master of this house-and-" 
                  "No such thing, sir!-no such thing; I am master of this house," said the old man, with a changed air, and a look almost of majesty; "look at me! Look at me narrowly!" he said-"look again! Did you never hear of the sea giving up its dead? I am old Jacob Kentrips!" 
                  "God of Heaven!" it is true!" exclaimed Hubert, springing to his feet, and clasping the old man's hands; "look at yonder portrait-look at-" 
                  "Look at this mark!" said the other, rolling up his sleeve, and exhibiting an old faded sailor's insignia, tatooed deeply into his flesh, with the letters "J. Kentrips" underneath. "Look at these letters" -he continued, flinging a bundle of dingy papers upon the table-"look at them when you please; but first, dear Bell, my pet, my love, my dear, dear grand-daughter, let me hear your sweet voice acknowledge me." 
                  Bell, who was already at his side, breathless with amazement and joy, rushed into the old man's arms and imprinted an affectionate kiss upen his cheek. 
                  "I know it is true!" she said; "my heart tells me that it is so; you are my dear mother's father, and O! how very, very much I shall love you!" 
                  "God bless you, my child!" said the old man; "you are all that is left for me to love on earth, and never, never will we part. All that you have been you shall continue to be; nothing shall be disturbed, and I will still be your steward. Ask Halley, who is a lawyer and whom I have sent for for this purpose, and he will tell you that when my identity is fully established, which in a fortnight at farthest I shall have the means of doing, all will be mine-or yours, it matters not which. I have already taken legal advice in another quarter." 
                  Frank questioned the old gentleman a few minutes and learned from him that it was only by his will that he had left her property to his wife, at the time of departing from the country, which will had been proved on the supposition of and upon imperfect testimony of his death, but which was of course inoperative during his life and was liable to be annulled at any hour. 
                  He, therefore, delivered the opinion that the title to all the real estate was still in the hands of Mr. Kentrips, and that if the fact of long and undisturbed possession by the wife threw any doubt upon his claim, there could still be no possible question of one other fact, which would put the whole matter entirely at rest. 
                  "And what is that?" asked Mr. Brandon, breathlessly. 
                  "That," said the young lawyer, knitting his brow with a judicial air, "is that the late Mrs. Kentrips, at the time of her death, was a married woman, and without the power to make a will, and that whatever property she died seized of must descend to the heir at law." 
                  "Bravo! That's exactly what Mr. Miles says; so the estate is either yours or mine, Bell," said Mr. Kentrips, laughing, "it don't matter which, for I am ready to transfer to you all my right at once, excepting a snug annuity for your old steward. It would all be yours in a few years at the farthest, and I am too old to have the trouble of it." 
                  Mr. Kentrips next proceeded to gratify the curiosity of his friends by a brief history of his life and wanderings. He did not hesitate to own that his departure from the country had been occasioned by an unwillingness to live with his wife, whose harshness of disposition had rendered her companionship intolerable, and although he had for the first dozen years of his absence, constantly cherished a design to return to New York, a variety of adventures had prevented his doing so, until the tidings of the death of his daughter made him cease longer to indulge the wish. He had been a sailor-had risen to the command of a vessel, had been wrecked had abandoned the sea, and settled in an inland town of England as an agriculturist, where he had experienced a variety of fortunes, until old age had found him poor and broken-spirited, and longing to revisit the land of his birth. He had with difficulty procured the means of accomplishing this wish, and was astounded on reaching New York, and looking for his old homestead and his marshy farm, to find in their stead nothing but streets: and squares and stately blocks of edifices. Still more astonished was be to find that his wife was not only living but was one of the wealthiest inhabitants of the city; for she had retained a great portion of the land, and still with the large avails of what she had sold, had erected from time to time substantial and elegant buildings upon the remainder. Her health was at that time on the decline, it being about a year prior to her decease, and his habitual feelings of repugnance to her society, together with a firm belief that she would refuse to recognise him, and a consciousness that he was not then possessed of proof to establish his identity had induced him to defer making any immediate claim to his property. Her death he was convinced would soon occur, and in the meantime he would he able to procure from abroad the necessary evidence of his own existence. 
                  He sought out his son-in-law, Mr. Brandon, and, under the assumed name of Agnew, obtained lodgings in his house, for the purpose of being near his grandchild, who seemed to him the image of what his daughter had been, and to whom he at once became greatly attached. When Mrs. Kentrips died, and the estate passed into the hands of Bell, the old man was quite as delighted as If it had come into his own, and with an eccentricity occasioned, perhaps, by his life of adventure and vicissitude, he resolved to continue unknown for a while longer, in order that he might, in his assumed character, make full trial and proof of the disposition of Bell, whom he only less than worshipped. 
                  Expecting from month to month the promised arrival of an old shipmate from abroad, who could fully set at rest all question of his identity, if such question should arise, he had indefinitely deferred making himself known, until the disclosure had been precipitated by the events of the evening. In the mean time, he had continually delighted in the false position which he occupied, and in the perpetual farce which he was playing off, as the steward of his own estate, and was looking forward with a sort of chuckling joy to the time of his eclaircissement with his relations, and to the great amount of amusement and pleasure which it would produce. 
                  He had very recently consulted Mr. Miles confidentially, and obtained from him the opinion of which mention has been made; but he was totally regardless whether the title was in himself or his granddaughter, being fully resolved to invest her at once with the whole estate, with the exception of an annuity of five thousand dollars for himself. 
                  The conversation was prolonged until a late hour, and when the friends separated for the night, it was with feelings of joy, and of gratitude to the great Disposer of events, which admitted of no adequate expression. 
                  On the ensuing day, Halley took counsel of several eminent jurists of the city whose opinions fully Confirmed his own, and that of Mr. Miles on the subject of the ownership of the estate, and as he made no secret of Mr. Kentrips' return, the intelligence spread in a few hours throughout the city. Like a thunderbolt it fell into the camp of the enemy, carrying confusion and terror on every side. It reached the ears of Solomon and his wife just as the former had haughtily expressed his determination to hold Mr. Brandon to a strict account for the income which he had received, and to give him an early notice to quit possession of the house which he occupied. 
                  Hawksley, to whom the appalled Dibbs had fled, pale and trembling, with the news, at once declared it perfectly fatal to their cause, and expressed his determination, if it should prove true, not to advocate longer the utterly hopeless claim of his client. 
                  Proof of Mr. Kentrips' identity was not wanting, for even before the day had passed, many of the oldest citizens, who had known him in youth, thronged his house to welcome him home, and of these several fully recognised their old friend. Within a few weeks his expected witness also arrived, a man who had embarked with him as a fellow sailor on his voyage from New York, had been his shipmate for many years, and had since frequently met him in England. So abundant and convincing was the evidence that Dibbs, utterly discomfitted, did not even offer his will for proof, but despairingly abandoned his hopes, never to be revived. 
                  Mr. Kentrips kept his word in speedily confirming to his granddaughter the title to the whole estate, with the exception of the handsome annuity which has been named for himself; and Bell, with his consent, conveyed at the same time an equal half of the property to her father, exulting not a little in her power to confer wealth upon one so dear. 
                  The great fete, and the ceremony which it was designed to celebrate, were postponed only for a few weeks, at the end of which period, Bell Brandon became Mrs. Frank Halley; and although the city's fairest miadens were present at the nuptials, the young bride was compelled to be guilty of the incivility of eclipsing them all in grace and beauty. Frank verily believed he was the happiest man living, and if this was a delusion, it was one from which he never recovered, and served him quite the purpose of a reality. 
                  Old Mr. Halley did not fail to receive his birth day present, with many subsequent marks of the attachment of his dutiful son and his new and generous daughter, and both he and Mr. Kentrips lived-to enjoy many serene and peaceful years. 
                  Solomon Dibbs continued poor through life, notwithstanding many skilfully laid plans for becoming suddenly rich, in all of which, however, as in the one which has been related, he strangely omitted the essentials of probity and truth. He was saved from destitution, indeed, only by the charities of Mr. and Mrs. Halley, which continued to reach him indirectly by means of Miranda, whose maturer years fulfilled the pleasant promise of her youth, and who became an intimate and faithful friend of her young benefactress. 
                  Old Joe and Dinah long continued to live a peaceful and merry life, nothing seriously disturbing their happiness, excepting the occasional sight of their now discarded nephew, mounted upon the glossy steed, with which, together with his freedom, he had been but too well rewarded for his treachery, before the inutility of his service was discovered. 
                
             
             
                
               THE WITHERED FIG TREE; 
               A STORY OF THE AFFECTIONS. 
                
                  
                     "Is there any thing whereof it may be said, see this is new? It hath been already of old time, which was before us.
                   
                
                
                  CHAPTER I. 
                  "HELEN! Helen! Where the deuce is the girl? Forever wanting when she's wanted! It is unaccountable, Emma, that you can't teach her to stop in one place two minutes together. Helen! Helen!" 
                  "Yes, papa!" was the instant reply of the frightened child, who from her play house in a distant corner of the mansion heard herself called so impatiently-I'm coming; I'll be there in just a moment," and the voice drew nearer and nearer, as the assurance was repeated; but it was succeeded by a sharp, quick cry of fear and agony, and David and Emma Wise ran together from the room where they waited the little delinquent's coming. But when they reached the stairway both paused, and the child's shriek was echoed by them in a tone of wilder horror, when they saw her lying motionless on the floor of the hall, many feet below them. She had fallen from the top to the bottom of that long flight of stairs. It was only for an instant that fear paralyzed them, then Mrs. Wise was lifting Helen, and hurrying with her to her own chamber, and the father was away in search of a physician. 
                  Little Helen was pale and senseless as a corpse when she was laid upon her mother's bed. Once while Mrs. Wise stood rubbing the cold hands in her own, she faintly opened her eyes, but they had no expression of consciousness, and closed immediately: and had it not been for the faint motion of the pulse, which Emma felt as she clasped the tiny hands, she had thought her idol a shattered one indeed, so like a corpse the still and pallid face did look. 
                  But Helen was not dead; she did not die. Yet an anguish scarcely less terrible than bereavement fell upon the mother's heart, when the little one recovered from the shock and the weakness attending that fall, and the physician told her the dreadful truth that the child's spine was broken! 
                  A fine opportunity for the study of character was afforded in the manner of the afflicted father and mother, when they were coping with the severe trial which they must bear. 
                  Helen was just seven years old when the shocking accident occurred. During those years of life she had been her mother's constant care, her joy and consolation; and now when the fond woman looked forward, and compared the probable future of her darling child with that which she had imagined and hoped for, she was overwhelmed with grief. For a time sorrow mastered her reason; she could not feel grateful that Helen's life was spared; it seemed to her then as though no deeper affliction than hers was possible. At the first, it was agony for her to listen to the gentle tones of the child's voice-she could not bear to meet the troubled yet patient glances of the mild eyes, in which she had once read the peaceful, happy fortunes of the little one. 
                  Emma Wise had never been a vulgarly proud, vain mother-but she had so loved her daughter, so adored her, had pictured for her in imagination so many bright fortunes, that she was perfectly prostrated before the sorrowful reality of pain, distress, and deformity which was now before her. 
                  With the father it was otherwise. Yet it, was neither religion nor philosophy that supported him, simply calm indifference. Had it been a son, their infant Jamie, on whom so sad a fate had fallen, Emma Wise would have had no occasion to ask in wondering disgust if the man had, indeed, a heart; she would have seen how his tears could fall like hers, in torrents-how his spirit could like hers be crushed and broken. But-it was only little Helen who suffered, and though she was his first-born child, that name was not significant of love, nor of devotion on his part. 
                  The disappointment which he made no effort to hide, when his daughter was first laid in his arms, had given place to no other emotion in regard to her. Helen had never seemed to him a child, nor was he to her as a father. She obeyed, she feared, but she loved him never! He gave her a name, a shelter, food and raiment, and he gave no more! 
                
                
                  CHAPTER II. 
                  TO speak the sad and solemn truth, David and Emma Wise were as ill-matched a pair as ever vowed to live together for better or for worse. Their union was a mystery. No compulsion on the one side attended-no love on the other induced it. The wealthy bachelor, after a short residence in Lynn, had proposed to the pretty, amiable, portionless Emma Haynes-she had accepted him, and they were married and removed at once to another town in Massachusetts, where the bridegroom had purchased a beautiful place, called "Sunnyside"-which a now bankrupt merchant had spent a fortune and sixteen years in beautifying. Here the newly married pair found themselves surrounded by all the good things of life-what at least, and with some reason, are usually accounted such: they were in want of nothing in the wide world but capacity for enjoyment. It was a very needful need! 
                  To Emma Wise, even before the first year of their marriage had passed, it was a perfect mystery how or why her husband had sought her for his wife. She was a very lovely woman, and she knew that: she had been told the pleasant fact by admiring friends sufficiently often to become well aware of it. But there were lovelier women in the world than she, and Emma felt that David had not married her for her beauty's sake. Not for her intellect or her learning had he sought her to be his companion in life-he had never cared to discover how far she was capacitated for study with him, he never spoke with her on subjects above or beyond the common-place, though had he done so, he would have found that she had an inquiring, active mind that was capable of great development. 
                  As to herself, she was a woman made for love, to love. Not a wild, passionate, absorbing adoration of another human being, but gentle, unobtrusive, constant devotion. She thought in sincerity that it was quite possible for her to love David Wise-that she could cheer his loneliness, that she could enliven his home and his heart, that she could find in him since he wished her for a wife, a lover as well as husband. In this she had been bitterly disappointed. 
                  Wed a woman of twenty summers with a groom of fifty winters; let the affectionateness of the young nature be repulsed, refused acceptance, scorned, indeed, by the old, and "the end of it" will in no case be a problem difficult to solve. If the wife is a gay, life-full nature, she will not suffer herself to be crushed in spirit-she will seek in the worldly what she cannot find at home-will become a trifler, careless, unbelieving-miserable! If she be of another mould, more quiet, gentle, hopeful, she will not easily be repulsed. She will endeavor and strive against hope, and if she be finally vanquished in her effort, she will die young, and of a broken heart. It is the inevitable result. 
                  There was something besides the stern gravity and dignity of age evident in the cold, distant, disagreeable manner of David Wise. He was subject to fits of moody thoughtfulness, which at times led him to pass whole days alone in his chamber, where he suffered none to intrude, except the servants who waited on him; which were vented often in sudden journeys, undertaken without a moment's warning, and from which he returned as suddenly and unannounced. He now had no taste for books. His library was large and valuable, such as none but a studious, learned man would have chosen; but after his marriage he never entered it to read, or to touch the volumes that filled those long lines of shelf, which reached from the floor to the ceiling of the handsome apartment. He had no liking for society; conversation seemed to him almost always an annoyance, and friendship with other men he shunned of all things. 
                  There was but one exception to this rule of isolation which he had laid down for himself; it was made in favor of a young man who had come to Sunnyside soon after David Wise was married, and remained there till Jamie was born, a dependent, no relative, yet dearly beloved by his protector, who, unmindful of the great disparity in their years and station, made Alfred Lord his chosen friend, and almost constant companion. 
                  This person was a youth of ordinary abilities, and impersonal appearance inferior; taciturn, self-possessed, always mild and respectful, he was also, but it was difficult to conceive the charm that bound his patron, or master, or friend, to him, that made the old man so solicitous always for his comfort, when that of persons who had a better claim on his time and attention was invariably neglected. 
                  Whatever it may have been to other people, this intimate communion between David Wise and Alfred Lord was to Emma a perfect mystery, which was far enough from being solved by any explanation which the husband vouchsafed. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER III. 
                  IT was late one afternoon in the September of that summer of Helen's accident, that Mrs. Wise and her daughter walked together in the great garden, which was the beauty of Sunnyside. They had wandered for an hour through the long walks, gathering splendid autumn flowers, and conversing together in the low, subdued tone of persons who have suffered much; not in the gay and joyous manner of the young mother with her cherished child. 
                  Their steps were now directed towards the house-they had reached the arbor at the entrance gate, when Helen paused and said- 
                  "Come to this path, please mamma, I want you to look at my tree." 
                  And they retraced their steps to a remote corner of the garden, where the spring preceding Helen had spent many hours in arranging a flower bed that was called her own. A friend had given her a root of the fig tree, and the child had planted and watered it morning and night, till it had fairly made its home in the ground and began to grow. From that happy day when the green buds peeped above the earth, she had watched it with unceasing devotion, lingering about it as though 'twere a beloved friend whose life was in danger, and with the utmost anxiety to see if it really would live in that cold northern soil. 
                  And to her great joy it had done well. Shoots had sprung from the main stem, and had grown tall and luxuriantly, and the tree gave promise of a long and healthful life. So it had flourished all the suumer-but when to-day Helen made her accustomed visit to the much-loved little garden, she had found its leaves all yellow and drooping-it seemed to her a human thing pining for its native land-she believed that it was going to die. 
                  So it was with a heavy heart that she went with her mother to look upon it, for it seemed to the poor child as though a living sympathy were established between herself and that senseless thing-she seemed to read her own destiny in it. 
                  "See, mamma, it is just like me," she said, when they stood looking on the faded leaves-"it is all withered, and will die." 
                  "Not like you, dear Helen. There is a long life before you, I believe. You grow stronger every day; it is growing late in the season, and you know the change of climate would affect this thing sooner than other vegetation-would give it just the appearance it has now. We will have the root taken up to-night and removed to the house for the winter. I am almost sure it will again come out then." 
                  "But see," persisted Helen, "feel the stems. How soft and withered they are. That wouldn't be, even if the leaves changed naturally, for we haven't had any frost yet." 
                  "Never mind, you'll see in the spring. I am perfectly sure the leaves will come out again then. Perhaps the poor thing is homesick, who knows?" 
                  "Oh," exclaimed Helen, with eager sadness, but she caught her mother's smile, and paused. Soon," she added thoughtfully, "I should be Heaven-sick, if you were not always with me. Mamma, I shall die the very day you die." 
                  "Hush, we are in the hand of the Lord, Helen. If He should take me from you, there would be sufficient care laid upon you. It would be necessary that you should live, dear child." 
                  "I am just four years older than Jamie," the little girl said thoughtfully. 
                  "Yes-if ever any thing should happen, if I should be taken away, I should feel safe in leaving the little darling to your care, my precious child." 
                  Helen clasped her mother's hand, and they turned away together from the fig tree. She had forgotten her dear friend in sadder thoughts. But Mrs. Wise, whose watchful love bore in mind all things that could at all affect the happiness of those about her, sought out the gardener, and gave him directions for carefully removing the tree at once to the root house, where it should remain for the winter. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER IV. 
                  THE casual suggestion of the mother that little Jamie might one day be left to her charge, produced its impression and effect on the daughter's mind. From that day he was endowed with a new and touching interest in her eyes; she became his second nurse, and suffered him to be rarely from her sight. The child was strikingly plain in appearance, and, except to those daily associated with him, destitute of all the winning graces and ways of childhood. His eyes were large, and dark, and brilliant, like his father's, but they were destitute of expression. The fixed, natural brightness was all. It was a glitter like that of the serpent's eye; charming to the momentary observer, but the gaze troubled and astonished the mother. Even little Helen had observed it, for she one day said to her mother, "I never saw any one with eyes like Jamie's; they look and look, and are so very bright, but they don't seem to see any thing." 
                  Yet that he was not blind they knew. 
                  Two years since Jamie's birth day was passed, when another son was added to the household-but the father's pride, and affection, and interest, were centred all in his oldest boy. He was an idol. 
                  Edwin was a beauty-a bright, amiable child, who, in feature, and voice, and manner, strongly resembled his mother. In his "mild blue eyes" was there nothing that told powerfully on the heart of his father; as well as bf her's, who morning and evening uttered her grateful thanks to Him who had given the blessed child? Was there nothing in the quiet affectionateness of the boy's words and acts, that won for him involuntary embraces from the grave old man? Was there nothing in his graceful motions, in his generous acts, which sometimes won a fervent kiss, an earnest blessing? Never. All that his parent's heart could feel was concentred in and lavished on James, the first-born son. And of him? 
                  The last few months preceding his third birth day had been to both these parents months of lingering suspense and agony. A dark and dreadful suspicion had been, during this time, finding for itself lodgment in their thought, and the bare idea made them tremble. 
                  At first in their own breasts they tried to hush the fear which forced itself upon them, that all was not well with the child; but when the months went on, and no spark of that intelligence which the parent is ever the first to see and glory in, was perceivable in him-when no other emotion than of simple affection or of passionate anger was ever aroused in him, they began to believe what was almost death for them to imagine. Neither David nor Emma Wise had spoken this suspicion to the other, they kept it a dreadful guest in their own mind. How should the mother dare to speak to that husband, who so adored the, boy, of idiocy! How should the father mourn with her, whom he was ready to curse in his heart, over this awful chastisement? 
                  For himself, he could not long endure uncertainty. Any assurance was preferable to that hope-blasting doubt, and he sought the physician, Dr. Sympson, one day, demanding of him the truth. And then the fear received its. assurance, there was no hope, no help for the boy-he was an idiot!
                   
                  It was enough. To "curse God and die" seemed from that day the only thought or inclination in the soul of the wretched man. Thenceforth Helen and Edwin, whose chief interest in his eyes had been, that they were the brother and sister, the companions of Jamie, were as nothing to him-and now the boy who had been his pride, his thought for all the future, was also to the father as one dead. 
                  But, to depart when he was wearied and sick of life-this was not granted hmm. David's bodily strength failed not-he was full of vitality. The stern disappointment and trial he was forced to bear, broke his spirit-but his health kept firm, and he presented then that loveless, mournful sight, a wretched, dissatisfied, tempted and falling man. Then he never smiled save when he looked on the wine cup, and his merriment in those hours of unnatural gayety was such as brought a pallor to his wife's youthful face, and increased heaviness to her heart. 
                  Upon Emma the blow fell startingly, cruelly; but it produced another effect than it had on her husband. It chilled and terrified her loving heart, it bowed her lovely head, yet she had no wish for death. To herself it had, indeed, been a relief, could she have died that day when the truth was told her, and she met that look of David Wise. The spirit of gladness and joy had long been grieved away from her, and she was prepared for the last change-she longed for the silence and freedom of the grave. But for Helen, the weak, frail girl, who seemed to live through, and joy only in her mother, for Jamie, the now more than ever dear, the unfortunate child, for little helpless Edwin, for these life Deemed to her an almost absolute necessity-a something she could not relinquish-which must not be taken away! 
                  The thought of Providence, however, was not as her thought. While the father, who seemed but a dread to his children, daily strengthed in health, the mother faded and faded away; her strength vanished, and the few who knew her, well did these love her-when they looked on her white face, and watched her feeble motion, and heard her voice, knew that she was passing from earth. And Helen knew it also. 
                  Going one day into her mother's chamber, she found her on her knees in prayer. Her first impulse was to retreat softly from the sanctuary, but in another moment she had entered and thrown herself beside her parent, and bowed Tier head likewise. 
                  When Mrs. Wise rose again, she said tenderly- 
                  "My child, all I can do is to pray. Oh, when you stand in my place, pray without ceasing. You are born to a troublous lot, Helen; God help you." 
                  Helen could not speak-could only look with troubled, questioning eyes upon her mother, who also for a moment was silent. She was; gathering strength to speak the saddest words to which a mother can give utterance. 
                  "I said, Nelly, when you stand in my place, pray without ceasing. I trust that your devotions are never neglected; but when I am gone you will learn, if you have not yet, what a precious privilege prayer is. Never forget, however dark the earthly lot is, there is One in Heaven who regards all His children with mercy. Helen, you are a strong minded girl, though so weak physically. I want you from this day to exert all the powers of your mind. I must speak to you of these things while I can, that you may be accustomed to the thought of my approaching death, for I would spare you the pain of a sudden shock. It is better to talk of these things than to increase the sorrow by stifling it in our hearts." 
                  "Oh, mother! mother! you must not speak of dying. I can bear any thing but that you should die-only live! Speak, say you will live for me!" 
                  She looked up into her mother's face, while she made that despairing appeal of devotion, but her eyes fell-a mortal chill passed over her, and her countenance grew white as her mother's while she waited for the reply. 
                  "Nelly, I do not fear death, for I know that I am going home. It is this parting with my dear, precious children that makes me grieve. All these thirteen years of your life you have been a blessing to me-my comfort and my hope: and yet-yet I must lay a dreadful burden on you, whom, O! that you might be spared such trial!-God's will be done!-will you, Nelly, be to your brothers a mother? Will you keep them always safe under your care? Poor, dear child, what do I ask?" 
                  The pallor fled from Helen's face. It glowed with light-she actually smiled as she knelt before her mother, and said- 
                  "Hear me, I would gladly die if that could save you, dear mamma. Now, I will live for you-Heaven hear me! I will be a Bother to Jamie and Edwin-I will do what I promise. Do not fear me-but you, you, I-" The light and the glow faded from her face, and she fell fainting to the floor. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER V. 
                  IT was the first time the mother and daughter had spoken together on this subject; but it was not the last It was a relief to them to speak much of that which so constantly preyed on their thoughts-to encourage each other as they were about to part forever. 
                  During the weeks preceeding their dreaded final separation, many were the communings, tender and solemn, that were held between them. They gained strength in this sad converse to speak composedly of the great change about to befall the household. To Helen the very idea of that parting was torture the most dreadful; but she had schooled herself to outward calmness, for the girl's high soul was aroused, and her frailty was proved to be, as her mother had said, only of a physical nature. She had a moral strength and capacity to endure, which her father had not. 
                  f To him the wife had never spoken of her probable early death. She could not nerve herself to that. Why was it that when she had revealed all that was in her heart to her young daughter, she could not do so much to him who might have claimed her confidence as well? If he had ever in a day of sorrow or rejoicing, sought her counsel, or companionship or sympathy-if he had ever by one single act or word since their marriage day, proved to her that he loved her, this might have been a possibility, but to a nature so cold, so foreign as his, she could not speak of sickness, or suffering or death. She feared to do it. She shrunk from meeting the cold look of his searching eyes, the monosyllabilic wonder that she should dream of dying-or-or the lighting of feature and voice, that would tell it was no grief for him to part with her. She was not the woman to live with such a man. She was too easily crushed, a flower too lovely, too drooping, too frail. A long life might been hers, had a kindly arm supported her, and a strong, loving heart shielded her-as it was, now in her thirty-second year, it was appointed for her to die! 
                  Even Helen had never but once said to her father any thing respecting the great loss they were about to meet. 
                  Astonished at his apparent blindness, and grieved because of his inattention, the timid girl at last resolved to talk with him about it. Perhaps, she thought, he did see and feel it all, but for the mother's sake maintained that calm serenity-and O! what a joy for her, could she find that he had tears of grief to shed with her!-to feel that he too loved the dying as she loved her! 
                  It required a desperate effort on Helen's part to speak to him with whom she should so soon be left alone of this. Her words were uttered in a flood of tears. It was the awful truth of what she tried to speak, which he received with that unsympathizing glance and impatient gesture, that so completely unnerved her when she had tried desperately to be calm, which wrung from her the bitter appeal- 
                  "Papa, don't you know she is dying?" 
                  The sharp interrogation, "Know what? Who is dying?" quickly brought her to herself, and with surprising self-command, that was forced upon her by the great revulsion in her feeling, she replied- 
                  "My mother." 
                  "Fudge, child! she has been in just that state always. She has a cold, and worries about it too much. Besides, she spends too much time altogether shut up in that room with James and Edwin. You should take that care off her hands, if she is not well. But don't be frightened about your mother. She never complains to me." 
                  "She never complains, papa. But she is very, very ill." 
                  "I'll speak with Doctor Sympson about it. If any thing has gone wrong with her, or she is really ill, I can get at the real truth of the matter better by asking him than I should speaking with her. It would besides, alarm her." 
                  "But it don't alarm her. And she would be so happy if you could come to her sometimes. She speaks to me of her death every day. I know she isn't afraid to die." 
                  "If your mother has been so sick as you say, it would have been impossible for her to appear so constantly at table, and to go about the house and grounds so much. It's only a womanish whim, so don't talk any more about it. Have you seen Jamie this morning."? 
                  "I left him with mamma. She was playing with him." 
                  "Well, do you go and take her place. You ought to do more towards amusing the boy, and not leave it to her. Did she send you here to have this talk with me?" 
                  "Oh, papa, no!" was the faint exclamation, which sounded very like a reproach, as the child went hastily from the room. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VI. 
                  MR. WISE did consult the physician who was in his wife's attendance, but it happened that he delayed doing so till the very day she died To the last he had neglected her-and not a word very day she died. To the last he had neglected her-and not a word in those final days passed between them of communion, or counsel, or of love. To the last Emma had hoped that it would not end thus-to the last she had supplicated for him-and to the very last he had remained far from her, blind and deaf to her unspoken call. 
                  The morning she died she was sitting in a large arm chair in the nursery. She had been trying to amuse poor Jamie, and had walked with him several times about the room, but she became soon very weary, and when she sat down again, the imitative little creature seated himself on the cushioned bench at her feet, turning over the pages of gayly-colored picture books. Shortly after the nurse came into the room leading Edwin, and the mother dismissed her, saying she would look after the children herself a little. 
                  Since that moment when she gathered the three around her, an increased expression of solemn earnestness had lighted her pale face, which, it seemed to Helen, was growing, more deathly every instant. 
                  There was a dead silence in that chamber. Helen sat close beside her mother, holding Edwin, so that the fond parent's eyes might be constantly upon him; there were thoughts with the dying woman which could not be spoken, which she must depart without uttering, even to that eldest child. By an effort she roused herself at last and said- 
                  "I want you to kneel down with Edwin, close beside Jamie. I will pray with you the last time-but I shall pray for you forever." 
                  Helen obeyed, and her mother's soul was poured forth in such fervent, solemn supplication, that she felt it was indeed for the last time. When the whispered "amen" was said, she waited till the hand that rested in blessing on her head was withdrawn, but the silence that followed frightened her-she stood up and looked upon her mother. 
                  And as she looked, she knew that the last change was near, and for a moment, though she had striven long and hard to be prepared for this, she was wildly startled; but that fear passed, and she said- 
                  "Shall I call him, mamma? Shall I speak to papa for you?" 
                  "Do not leave me," was the reply, uttered with astonishing energy, "these children are yours, Helen; do not desert them, for your mother's sake. Kiss me, Helen." 
                  She was dead, when the young girl lifted her face from the face of her mother, after that long embrace. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VII. 
                  IN the garden at Sunnyside every Spring had been planted in a remote corner in Helen's garden, a beautiful fig tree, which every autumn saw removed to the cellar of the house for protection against frosts and storms, which its nature could not endure. It was a singularly formed tree. The stem was large, but ill-shaped; it looked as though it had been blasted in its growth, for it was only two feet in height, while from every part it had sprung fresh and luxuriant stems, each adorned with the most beautiful foliage. It was true the early and scarcely perceptible frost, whish had fallen upon it in that first year of its exile, had in a measure blighted the tree, but the sunshine, the dew, and the tender care bestowed upon it another year, had saved it. So had it been with Helen Wise. The tree, as she once said to her mother, was like her. A calamity had come upon her, and in a measure dwarfed and withered her physical energy-but the mother's love, had been like dew and sunshine on her heart: it had developed in that shrinking frame, that timid nature, powers which under a less genial influence had never, even to the child, made themselves manifest; had evolved her moral courage, her power to act and think. 
                  "You are like that tree, Helen," her mother had repeated when she saw it, as she had prophesied, recovering from that first year's exposure. 
                   
                  Helen would not then have thought of comparing herself with it-the similie to her imagination only held good so long as the withered shrub was at the point of death. 
                  "Though you, my daughter, will never be a beautiful woman, save to those who know you, to them you will be all you could wish. Your mind and the affections of your heart, thank God, have not been dwarfed. Be what you will, Helen, I have no fear in trusting you. You have never been a child, as children are-you are a woman in thought and in motive." 
                  A sad truth was that. The tiny girl was a woman. She had never been a child from the day when that deformity overshadowed her. In her sympathizing mother she had lived, and known what it was to be happy-but when left with the children alone with her father, there was a contraction of the nature which to the mother was open as the rose is to sunlight. 
                  There was none in the wide world then to assist her with loving counsel, to assure her with confidence, to love her with appreciating fondness. Between thirteen and sixty-three there is a difference; but a greater dissimilarity than that of age existed between David Wise arid his eldest child-a wider gulf than that of years spread between them. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VIII. 
                  ONLY a few weeks had passed, after his wife's death, when Mr. Wise acquainted Helen with his intention of making an immediate change in his family affairs. He had, he said, determined upon placing her in a boarding school near Boston; the boys he should send to the South, where they could be under the safe charge of one of his relatives. It was high time, he thought, that the children's education should be attended to. 
                  When Helen heard this resolution, she knew not what to do. Of herself, though she shrunk from the presence and companionship of strangers, she thought not now. The injunction of her mother that she should always remain with, and be all to her brothers, seemed one she must fulfill. Yet how to oppose the will of that father? Not by tears, she answered herself-and by words, had she thus been ever able to influence him? 
                  She saw the preparations for departure going on day after day at Sunnyside, but could not bring herself to act concerning it till the appointed time drew evidently very near. Then every word that Edwin spoke fell with such a pang upon her heart, every caress of Jamie was so powerful to strengthen her resolution, that she at last one day sought her father. The boys were both with her, and she nerved herself for the dreaded encounter by looking upon them-and a mere look was enough. She promised herself to speak calmly and to entreat humbly, if need be, that he would not separate them, that he would entrust to her care the children their mother, in dying, had desired might be left to her guidance. But when she came to him her soul could find no utterance but in the earnest petition- 
                  "Oh, father, do not take the children away from me!" 
                  "The deuce! What could you do with them?" was the answer. "I said it was the best way for them to go to their older relatives, and you must certainly go off to school. "Don't you think it time you should be learning?" 
                  "Only let them go with me! I want to learn-but I could not live away from them. Mother wished that we should be kept together. I will not trouble any body with the care of them; there are so few of us, let us grow up together. Oh, father, do, do let it be so!" 
                  "But-I can't understand you. What would you do with such things in a boarding school? Jamie, what could you do with him?-and Edwin, he's little better than a baby." 
                  "It was mother's wish that we should be kept together. I know about Jamie better than any body else, and can manage him better-and as for Edwin, oh, I cannot part with him. Don't part us, father,-do not!" 
                  The old man looked down on the little bent figure whose pale face was so earnestly watching him-and a throb of pity, I do not say of affection, moved his heart. He paused at last in his pacing through the parlor, and simply said, it was in a tone less harsh than usual. 
                  "I'll make the arrangements, and it shall be as you wish; but you must be able to give me a good account of your charge, Helen, when I return." 
                  "Are you going away too, father?" 
                  Perhaps the old man noticed the great difference in the calm tone with which the question was asked, and the fervent manner in which she had pleaded a moment before-he looked at her with close scrutiny as he answered- 
                  "Yes, I am going to Europe. I shall sail from Boston next month." 
                  The intelligence was received in silence. 
                  For, indeed, it was no occasion for grief to either of these children. To Jamie the father was a perfect abhorrence-no fear of parental authority, no awe, or love held him in check; in the spirit of opposition, malice, and folly, he met all rebuke, chastisement, or attempt to control, which proceeded from that parent. He had been meek, submissive as a lamb, to the gentle Emma Wise, his pitying mother. By stern measures, by force, by threats or frowns, the poor creature was not to be subdued-and the mere fact that his father had attempted such governance was enough to arouse his unfortunate child's blind fury and ungovernable hate. 
                  Edwin, gay as a bird, easily affected by all magnetic influences, loving, and fearing, and hating with a warm-hearted, petted child's enthusiam. Helen, meek, long suffering, careful, patient, full of reverence, to these young creatures who adored each other, the day of parting with their sire was not an evil day. They had not in his presence the freedom of their poor brother, who was restrained in mirth or in wrath by no mental, moral suasion, they could not conquer the intense consciousness, the unnatural dread, with which his presense inspired them-his removal from them, therefore, was only the removal of a bugbear. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER IX. 
                  MONEY will purchase all sorts of favor; (what a truism have I proclaimed!) it secured the uncommon accommodation which Mr. Wise sought in -- school, Boston, rooms for his children, and the nurse woman-a rare privilege, which people less used to domination, would scarcely have thought of asking-and which, on no account, had been granted, but for a compensation commensurate with the favor. 
                  The brothers and sisters formed a group which much interested the principal, Mrs. Hughes. They appealed silently, but forcibly, to her better nature, (for she, in common with the great majority, had two natures.) The lady was a widow, she had been a mother, but her children all died young; the silent, unobtrusive, but very evident sorrows, and the rich mental grace of Helen Wise, made an ineffaceable impression upon her mother heart. She was a true woman, and she saw in the sister of those boys, one whom it was her duty to strengthen in every way, that she might not be crushed in the trials which it was very apparent she had to bear. 
                  But while to herself the lady was making this resolution, Helen in her own heart was awed by the dignified manner of the principal-was striving by equal reserve to guard herself against all, that in her new position, might, if suffered to come in near enough contact, dishearten and afflict. Mrs. Hughes was unfortunate in the impression which she conveyed to her new pupil's mind-for even when she smiled her kindliest on Helen, the young girl had no other thought but to thank God that her own were with her-that she might see in Edwin's sunny face a reflection of her mother's smile, and heart in his voice an echo of those dear tones which were hushed forever. 
                  Helen was perhaps too keenly alive to the fact, that the sense of beauty is by no means an unselfish sense-and that, of the many thoughtless young creatures who surrounded her, very few would care or think to penetrate beyond the unattractive "outward, visible form." She was too gentle, as well as quite too proud to wish their pity, and she would have suffered all things from loneliness, rather than the friendship or love of strangers. The curious glances of scholars she could bear, for her mother had long ago schooled her in the knowledge, and her own sensitiveness assured her, that she would never attract the attention of strangers by her beauty-but, unavoidably, by her deformity. 
                  When the school duties were over, (it was a happy thing for her,) she had sufficient occupations to draw her thoughts from self, and from the young creatures around her. It was in these hours that she relieved the nurse from her cares, and either walked with the children, or amused them in her room. 
                  The youngest boy was now seven years old. As yet he had only found a playmate and companion, an equal brother, in Jamie. He had never yet been told that his elder brother's words were only echoings, which had no meaning to him who uttered them. He knew not that the passions, before which he sometimes shrunk in terror, were only those of a fiercely animal nature. He had yet to learn the dreadful truth, that God, in his Providence, had sent the child into the world shorn of intellect-a creature in human form, with human voice and faculties, but without mind. And Helen dreaded the day when Edwin should feel the shock which had so troubled her, when they told her that Jamie was an idiot. 
                  Edwin was small in stature for his years, but a very beautiful child. His noble head was his crown of glory-his large, clear, blue eyes, beamed with intelligence-and even in his sleep there was a smile upon his features, that had led one to imagine he held in those hours of abstraction, converse with angels. Helen felt almost a mother's pride thrilling her heart when she looked on him, and every day she remembered to bow down in her thankfulness before the high God, to bless Him, that he had suffered those children to remain with her. She never permitted them to go out and play among the other children. A constant fear for Jamie, a dread lest the thoughtless might acquaint Edwin with what she could not bear that he should not yet learn, prevented this. She played with them, she amused them, and the youngest boy's lessons were always attended to under her own supervision. 
                  That the sister was repaid for her devotion a thousand fold, I need not say. Affectionate obedience and respect were always yielded by Edwin; and that she was encouraged to ceaseless effort by the control she had already been able to exercise over Jamie in the maddest bursts of passion, could easily be seen. He would become silent and calm in an instant when she spoke, though none others could subdue him." 
                  But it was not after a day's or a month's exertion that Helen Wise was thus rewarded. 
                  Many a time, after a futile effort to subdue a temper, that, without reason or sense, was wild as the whirlwind, she could only weep over her insufficiency. Could only weep, I said; it had been a sad case then, indeed; oh, she did more! She remembered her mother's counsel, and she prayed-and at last learned the quiet, easy way, in which to master him. Then his will, ever after, was only a slave to hers. Yet Helen never tyrannized; she was never angry with him. Was she perfect, therefore? I said not that. But there was a constant recollection, a constant grief in her heart for him, and to have been vexed, or annoyed with one who lived with such a frightful deprivation, without a thinking mind, she had considered it nothing less than absolute sin. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER X. 
                  HUMAN sympathy and investigation had not, at the time of which this is written, made a study of the wants and capacities of the idiot nature. But the sympathy and investigation of Helen Wise was often turned towards the subject, arid she sought and prayed that she might discover how a little light might be thrown in on her brother's rudderless sense; for to contribute very much to his happiness, she believed was possible. 
                  In a moment of rage, because of some trifling opposition which Edwin one day made to Jamie, when he would have endangered his life, the boy struck his younger brother a blow, which left a mark on his forehead that was never to be erased. That scar was to Helen Wise a sign of warning, a lesson of patience, a constant incentive. To break that seemingly chainless will became her serious effort, and so she gave her leisure moments to the slow and difficult task of teaching him to work-so she hoped he might at last learn, in a mechanical sort of way, to think! 
                  She had often wondered at his extraordinary passion for gay colors, a taste that was easily gratified, and it became a serious question with the thoughtful child, if this passion might not be a blessing in disguise to her brother. Alone and unaided, she set about the solution of that difficult question. Procuring the most brilliant patterns, she painted flowers for him while he stood by and watched her-and then, when he manifested his unmeasnred delight as he looked at her work, she undertook to teach him. But it seemed at first an almost fruitless effort; still, it was begun with a hope that was too great to admit of speedy demolition. For months she continued that labor, and at last it began to be successful, Jamie's attention was secured, and what seemed almost like an intelligent interest and desire to learn was aroused. He would sit and listen with his eyes to her voiceless teachings, and work as Helen worked, until his gay copies almost rivalled her not very skilful painting. 
                  Still Helen was not with this conquest content. Knowing that Jamie's rambling, unsettled nature would never for hours together content itself with one occupation, she bought the gayest wools, and showed him how to hold the needle and to work with these in patterns his own fancy suggested. Then she learned how to make baskets, that she might teach him again, and to dress dolls that he might do the same. And in not one of these pious efforts did the sister fail. An unlooked-for joy was this, for not only was the poor boy's time now fully occupied with tasks that delighted him, his passions seemed chained as by some spell; it was a spell of music-the music of Helen's gentle, quiet, loving ways! The language of her sad, sweet eyes was as intelligible to him as was that that of her words to Edwin- he learned to know when she was grieved, when glad-he seemed also to feel with her in her sorrows and her triumphs. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XI. 
                  IT was not possible that Helen Wise should live in Boston for the four appointed years (it was thus long her father had decided they should remain at -- School) without finding among the many who in that time made their home for months together at the seminary, some who became very near and dear to her. 
                  Though the care of her brothers awakened all the tenderness of her heart, as well as the thoughts and exertions of her mind, she needed another interest and affection yet, and for this she found exercise and life in two young girls, twin sisters. The love for these which sprung to active life, was not that flower of sudden birth, that youthful friendship, whose death is as speedy and certain; it followed the interest which their beauty and mutual devotion to each other had awakened. Helen knew that they were also in sorrow. They were orphans a few years older than herself, who on their mother's death had been placed in Mrs. Hughes' charge, for the completion of their education. 
                  It was many months before Helen had interchanged more than a mere casual word with these girls, and they might have finished the prescribed course without forming more than a mere formal acquaintance with her, had it not been that they, attracted by the shining virtues of the little deformed Helen, took advantage of a moment in which they performed towards her an act of humanity, and the advances which they made were gladly received by her. 
                  There was an astonishing resemblance between Julia and Anna Saxe-more thorough, indeed, than that of their minds. Though in these there was also a great similarity, the one being as it were an echo or copy of the other. Not an echo either, for it had much of individuality-but Julia was stronger in constitution, of firmer will and her intellectual power was greater than that of her sister. 
                  To Helen Wise they were dear alike, and after she had learned them thoroughly, necessarily alike. In the warm-heartedness, and generous, enthusiastic, chivalrous temperament of Anna, there was something that acted on the not chilled but worn and saddened nature of Helen like a charm; it was as a cool breath of wind on a sultry August day. And in thoughtful, courageous, and sympathizing Julia, she found that other friend which she so needed; a friend whose experience in the world had been more varied and extensive, whose perception was keener than her own, whose ambition was of another sort. There was such an elevating, self-sustaining tendency in her character-her mind was of so pure and high an order, and she was one to mightily influence feebler or more timid persons. If Helen did look up to and heartily admire this new friend, in turn Julia Saxe reverenced her gentle companion. 
                  In all her varied and long experience and observation of schoolgirl friendships, Mrs. Hughes had never seen any thing to resemble this, formed between these pupils. And she encouraged its development in every way, for it rejoiced her to see to what sort of minds the heart of her little pet opened itself. Though there were but a few years difference in their ages, the young southerners were far in advance of Helen-almost all their years had been passed in schools, and they had improved their talents well. Helen's abilities were solid, but by no means brilliant; she moved at a slow pace through her tasks, but all she mastered was well understood, and not to be put away under the lock and key of memory, but to be used and put to advantage; therefore, though not the most promising laborer, because after putting her hand to the plough she never looked back, her teachers knew that the field of mind she worked would be fruitful and abundant. 
                  During school hours the three friends did not once meet in recitation rooms, their tasks were all dissimilar, but when these duties were over, Julia and Anna sought for none so speedily as for plain and quiet Helen. And for their leisure Hours they asked no pleasanter occupation than helping her amuse and care for her brothers. 
                  As months passed on they became like children of one loving family, beariug each other constantly in mind-thoughtful for each other's comfort, assisting, encouraging, and tenderly loving. That was a circle into which none were suffered to intrude, whose perfect harmony another entrance had broken. They were a company of orphans, for David Wise was as one dead to his children-the beautiful bright southerners, the mild, quiet, and altogether spiritual, loving Helen Wise, poor Jamie, and Edwin the darling, and amusement the pupil of them all. 
                  It was a circle which, to the great grief of each member, was at the end of two years broken. Not, however, by love-destroying or love-chilling words or deeds on the part of either; other frosts effected the separation, the frosts and storms of a New England winter. Anna's health became broken; the efforts she was making to graduate with her sister the succeeding year were too much for her. She inherited from her mother a disposition to consumption, and as she grew older, especially since residing in the North, this became the more manifest. 
                  The watchful love of Julia was the first to take alarm, and she did not delay acting on her affectionate fears for a moment. Quite forgetful of all ambitious exertion, which had influenced her so much in the past months, she procured permission of their guardian, and at once set out for their native city, Charleston, in South Carolina. 
                  The separation between Helen and her friends was very grievous to them all. That for those beautiful girls a happy destiny, awaited, she could not doubt. Possessed of wealth and talents, and inclination that capacitated them to be and to do all things in the right way, the prospect opening before them was a bright one. If life and health were given them, their genial dispositions would be sure to find all things joyous in this fair world. They themselves, though they stood alone in the world, knew that they were richly blest when they parted with Helen Wise, thinking of the continual care and sorrow that must press upon her always. Yet they could not find it in their hearts to pity her. They admired and loved her, for they saw a heroine in that frail maiden, who, bearing a heavy cross, could yet lookup smiling and reverently to the face of Heaven, and say, without a sigh, "Even so, Father." They had called her their dear sister-and they felt that she was, indeed, so much, when they kissed her for the last time ere their long journey. 
                  What an episode was that friendship in the solemn, noble poem of that deformed girl's life! 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XII. 
                  LONG after they were gone, one thought of wonder and of doubt was lingering in Helen's mind. While she assisted them in packing their things away, the day before their departure, they had showed her the likeness of their mother, saying as they did so that they had once meant it should never be seen by other than their eyes-it was too sacred, too precious. 
                  It had evidently been taken many years before, when the lady was of her children's present age-a beautiful and finely finished miniature of an elegant woman. It seemed to Helen when she looked upon the face, as though she had looked upon it before; but where, and when, and how? At first she thought among the living, and the happy, but as the bewilderment passed, and, she still gazed upon the pictured face, remembrances of a circumstance that long ago transpired at home, when she was a little girl, came back freshly to her mind. 
                  In the library, in a drawer of their father's writing desk, which stood wide open as though inviting her curiosity, she had found the likeness of a woman which she had thought then beautiful beyond all things. She had it carefully in her hands, and was going out from the room in search of her mother to show the splendid lady to her, when, lifting her eyes, she saw her father standing mute before her, and gazing on her with a look which terrified her, and the little painting dropped from her hand. The old man stooped and lifted it up, and with a word so harsh, so cruelly bitter, and of such-inhuman anger as made her almost faint with fear, he sent her from the room; no persuasion could induce her, even after years were passed, to enter that library again. 
                  The severe punishment attending this little act of childish curiosity had fixed the lady's likeness on Helen's mind in indelible colors. When, therefore, Julia showed this likeness to her, though she spoke no words save of admiration, a mortal chill overspread her frame, and the terror and grief of that distant day of humiliation seemed for a moment to overpower her. 
                  Her emotion did not escape the sisters' notice, and when they said to her, "was she not lovely, Helen, our darling mother?" the poor girl roused herself and said merely," "yes, most beautiful. So was my mother; but she was not of this proud style. I should know your mamma was a Southern lady by those magnificent eyes. I have no likeness of my sweet mother. What a joy this must be to you." 
                  Long after, the remembrance of this lady was troubling the thought of Helen Wise. But at last, in the pressure of present duty and active exertion, it passed away. 
                  If now, Helen, every day and every hour missed and mourned the absence of those bright creatures, in the letters which each week laid before her, she found a new comfort, a new source of joy. Anna wrote of her affection and interest with such words as she could never have spoken-cheering, and hoping and rejoicing with her. And Julia's correspondence girded her heart, a perfect wall of strength. 
                  Return to the South and release from that ambitious endeavor, had been in the highest degree beneficial to Anna Saxe. Her cough had-disappeared, she was strong again; but they dared not return to the school and its duties, to the north and its winters again, and so their settled home was made in the family of one of the executors of their mother's will. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XIII. 
                  WHEN Helen was eighteen years old, and the appointed time for her stay at -- school was nearly passed, a new trial was put upon her. 
                  The deformity which friends had hoped might be outgrown with years, had on the contrary increased with time, and great physical weakness attended it. Once she had been confined to a sick bed for weeks together, and her life was despaired of by those who attended her. If it had not been that so much anxiety was constantly on her mind-if the consciousness of her great duties had not so heavily pressed upon her, she had doubtless died; but when her breath had from exhaustion became scarcely perceptible, and her heart beat faintly as a dying infant's, and the physician could give no more hope, while Mrs. Hughes hung over the young girl with the sorrowing heart and the grief of a mother, they brought Edwin, who would not be kept back, to her bed; they held him close to her that he might kiss her for the last time, and the embrace had been to her like an electric shock. It seemed as though this alone had power to call back the departing spirit to the mortal body of Helen Wise. She rallied from that moment and arose from the sick bed, whence none had thought to see her removed, save for burial. 
                  The second time of attack happened on the occasion of her receiving a letter from one her father had appointed to watch over his children during his absence. It told her that the old man was no more. This was accompanied by a letter from a physician; it was dated and post marked Naples, stating that Mr. Wise had died in that city of cholera, and had bidden him in his last sickness, in case the disease proved fatal, to acquaint his friends in America with the particulars of the fact. 
                  Aside from the natural grief, which, strange as this may seem, was sincere, the daughter felt, on receiving this intelligence, the fact that she was now to be recognised, for what she had, indeed, ever virtually been, the only protector; in short, the parent of her brothers, was enough to distress and trouble her. Though she had been all in all to those children, it was a relief for her to fall back at times on the thought that they had a father. If she should die, (and the idea of death was not to that frail creature an abstraction,) he would be with them. If they should ever aspire or grow beyond her mild control, (it was a hard, unpleasant thought, yet she thought it,) he had an authority they would not dare to question. Now that he was dead, this stay, this ever comforting recollection was gone, and the prospect of all that was before her, though at one point of view, his death might seem a relief, was at first too much-the sudden shock of weightiest recollection overpowered her. 
                  From this prostrating sickness, however, she again recovered; and then it was thought best that Helen should return with her brothers at once to Sunnyside; and it was her earnest wish to do so. There, it was appointed, the will was to be read, and in the preparatory school of the place, Edwin's education was to be particularly attended to. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XIV. 
                  IT was a sad going home. The nurse woman, Margaret, who had accompanied the children from Sunnyside, returned with them; yet it was not the same household that had gone thence four years before. Margaret's hair was growing gray, and Helen looked full ten years older. Jamie was grown tall, well-shaped, and full of animal health; and Edwin, the love of every body, had increased in beauty as he had in stature. They came back, clad in mourning garments, to a desolate home. 
                  It was so arranged that they should reach home by daylight, but it was growing late in the afternoon when they drove up the avenue to the house. An old woman who had been left in charge of the mansion sion, and who had lived in the family ever since the day David Wise brought his young bride home, and that was nearly twenty years ago. This old woman met them at the door, and it was heartfelt pleasure to her when she took the footman's place and helped her young mistress from the carriage, that, though Helen looked very, very pale and sad, she neither wept nor fainted, she did so cordially hate "a scene." And Oh! what a joy and surprise it was to all. Jamie recognised old Agnes as well as the rest of them, and he suffered her to kiss him, which she did heartily over and over again, till her kind heart gave way as she had feared Helen would, and she who never wept, for one moment wept aloud. 
                  There was nothing changed about this noble habitation. It seemed to Helen, as she passed through the neat, cheerful, handsomely furnished rooms, as though scarcely a day had passed since she went weeping from the place where her mother had lived and died. The gardens were never in finer order-even the birds, the pet canaries, sang the very notes they used to sing, and a globe, tenanted by gold fish, occupied the same place that it had long ago. 
                  But Helen knew that a change had come over all things, though at first it might not be perceptible. Years had done their work. The shade trees had waxed great and strong, the vines had hardened and spread far and wide in fruitful luxuriance, and tiny bushes were transformed into great flowering shrubs. The canaries were not those that sang so sweetly when Helen went away-there was a new generation of gold fish in the globe-another order of change had taken place in Helen and Edwin, a change of which the spreading vines and heightened trees were but a type. 
                  Before dark, the very night of their return, Helen walked in that portion of the garden, which her mother had been the first to call after her name. Her brothers were with her, but Helen looked, without speaking, on the fig tree, which still stood in the centre of that little bed; its branches overshadowed all the ground where she had worked in childish sport and earnestness. For the first time since her coming home, though her heart had been every moment about to run over, she wept-for she remembered her mother's prophecy-and yet, despite her tears, an assurance of hope spoke to her from that tree. The Withered, blighted trunk was now quite hid from sight-the deformity was not perceivable, neither had an observer been at all aware of its existence as he looked on the luxuriant foliage of the foreign tree. 
                  Even thus might it be with her, as years passed on, so in spiritual strength and beauty might she continue to grow, so from her excellency might a pleasant shadow fall, in which the weary and the weak might repose. She read a gospel that night as she stood beside that tree-she breathed a prayer there that was heard in heaven. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XV. 
                  IT was appointed that their father's will should be read to the children the morning after their arrival at Sunnyside, and at an early hour of the day, Mr. Warner, the legal friend of David Wise, accompanied by two elderly gentlemen, old acquaintances of the deceased, presented himself at the mansion. 
                  The document was read from beginning to end without an interruption. That duty over, the gentlemen shortly after retired, and Helen was alone again. Alone-it was well that this was possible; for the astonishment that had silenced could not long be powerful to control, and she had been more, than a young, solitary, helpless girl, to have borne up calmly, and, at the same time, that was done her. 
                  By this will of David Wise, his estate was to pass into his daughter's hands, but conditionally, and not in her own right. If in accordance with his command, she wedded with Alfred Lord before her twentieth birthday, Sunnyside was theirs conjointly, forever; if for any reason Helen should refuse the union, which had been agreed upon between said Alfred and David Wise years before, the property of the said David was to go to the said Lord, and the sons of David; and to his care these children were to be intrusted until Edwin was of age! 
                  When he had finished reading the will, Mr. Warner, the lawyer, said to Helen, "I have made inquiries respecting the Alfred Lord here mentioned in this will; it appears that since he left your late father's house, he has resided in New York. For the few past years he has been a very successful shipping merchant. Six months ago he sailed for Asia; it was not then his intention to return until a year from now. Probably it would be advisable to acquaint him with the contents of this will at once." 
                  "As you please," was Helen's sole reply; and how securely those coldly uttered words hid from the inquiring thoughts of her listeners the wail of anguish with which they were echoed through her soul. 
                  The surprise that could not be spoken, the sorrow that found no words, the thought that does not hate, that could not love or revere the dead old man, how can I tell of it, or of that "wrestling with hidden pain!" 
                  Prayer was not, at first, even a possibility-consolation in no form presented itself-death was the only thought, the only longing-for death, immediate and forever, seemed better than that life her father had apportioned. An awful sacrifice in either case of her decision must she offer up-her children, or herself, which? 
                  But this state of fear and torture and uncertainty could not continue long. The spirit that had been so crushed and trodden upon, began at last to rise again, to give voice; but, reader, only in the ear of heaven ven, to its cry for mercy-and that cry at least was answered in returning peace, and even hope, in recollection of the duties which were before her unperformed, in strength to bear, in courage to go onward. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XVI. 
                  THE advancement Edwin made in his studies after he entered the preparatory school, was what might have been anticipated by those who knew how thorough a foundation had been laid while he studied with Helen. 
                  He mastered his tasks not with a parrot-like celerity, nor with the plodding toil of the book worm, but by the rapid and bold flights of true genius and real industry. 
                  His tutor, young Dr. Harry Gray, was the son of poor parents. By dint of unceasing application he had risen high in the respect of his superiors; his perseverance and ability secured for him an honorable place at last in the very school which he had entered, possessed of nothing but talents and determination to succeed. He was in person, elegant; nature had done every thing for him, and he had not proved so ungracious as to neglect her gifts. He had improved them to the utmost by cultivating his mind, the only chivalrous act a man can do for nature. That he did not become a vain, proud man, when he stood thus even in his poverty, self-elevated above his fellows, was perhaps, because his ambition could not stop to trifle with vanity, nor be satisfied with the miserable delusions of vulgar pride. He had come out of the ranks of obscurity, self-sent by force of character and of mind; he knew that he stood on the earth for a purpose, and he worked to accomplish that. 
                  Helen went not at all into society after her return to --, but there were some, both old and young, who for love's sake, sought her in her own home at Sunnyside. That fate which was before her, robbed all the present of its happiness, and the future of its hope. The society of the young was not that which she needed; for in their thoughtless joys and gay lives, it was not given her to share; there was a thought omnipotent that obscured all peace-all that was given her to do, as she believed, was to hide herself away from the world-to die if she "might be so blessed"-believing that there was never sorrow like unto her sorrow. 
                  Yet very precious to her affectionate heart was the love of Edwin, her fail young brother. Into all his thoughts and hopes she could penetrate $ he laid them before her in his perfect confidence, and to him she was every thing, more than he could be to her. The depth of her sufferings he could not even understand, and could not share. Her bitterest thoughts, her loneliness, her grief, she could keep all this from him-but her joy, such as it was, she made his joy also. 
                   
                  Dr. Gray had been long desirous to pay his respects to the sister of Edwin, his favorite pupil-for the boy, acting the proverb that, "out of the fulness of the heart the mouth speaketh," had awakened in the dreaming, secluded scholar, a curiosity and real desire to see and know this paragon. 
                  It was natural that he should associate an idea of external loveliness with so much perfection, as seemed from Edwin's words embodied in Helen Wise. When he broke in upon the self-prescribed rigid lines of duty, and divorced himself an hour from his books, it was by no means strange that he received a shock that was almost revulsion, when he was shown into her presence, so unlike was the being he saw to the beauty he had imagined. 
                  It was long before the impression produced in that moment when the vision of imagination fell before reality passed away. Yet Dr. Gray did not (for Edwin's sake) discontinue his visits at Sunnyside. He also went not at all into the gay world, but was wasting-ah, I meant not that-keenly enjoying his life, in the busy pursuit of knowledge; and it was pleasant for him sometimes to listen to the soft tones of Helen's voice, to enrich himself by converse with her always suggestive mind. 
                  And all insensibly the gentleman was attracted, charmed and unchained, by another order of beauty, of which he became by degrees fully cognizant, for he discovered that Helen's moral and intellectual loveliness surpassed all that form and coloring, of which, in dreaming hours, he had mused; but which, it must be confessed, he had never in his little intercourse with the world seen embodied. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XVII. 
                  THAT he did not love Helen at once, nor at last, in the way that romancing men and maidens in the story books love, was I acknowledge, a substantial fact. He admired and respected her, (it had been impossible for any person to have otherwise regarded her,) that he did, devoutly. But Harry Gray was a man who lived by sight, as well as faith. 
                  Faith, I said, he had in Helen's merits in full abundance, but another love, a love of the imagination for beautiful women, had been with him from his boyhood, and though it had never been a frequent thought with him that he should one day follow the fashion of the world, and take to himself a wife, he had not, it must be confessed, been always without fancies personal, respecting such matters. That he never looked on Helen Wise in the light of a speculation, was most certain; though it Was equally certain that the secluded Doctor had never heard of that strange proviso in the will of David Wise. He had reason to believe that her fortune was large, but the accumulation of money had never been his object in life, it had always been a third rate consideration with him, and the idea of taking a wife that he might fill his purse, was one that he could never have entertained. It was foreign to his whole nature. 
                  With a deeper scorn than another could have felt for him, he would have looked on himself, had it been possible for him to think of marriage other than as a sacred thing. He never thought of worldly interests when he thought of her. He would have considered it profanation to associate such desires. Oh! God be thanked, there are still remaining on earth such noblemen! 
                  Neither at the first, nor ever really (that is, in other than a dreamlike ray,) did Helen Wise dare to think of the learned young Doctor, save as her brother's instructor. He was, for this very office he held, a man fraught with uncommon interest to her-he was in her eyes more than a mere agreeable, accomplished gentleman. 
                  By degrees, but unconsciously to herself, Harry Gray became far more to her. Though, when she herself began to suspect this, she laid a double restraint on her heart-though, when she knew that he was day by day acquiring with her a deeper interest, she solemnly vowed that, for his sake, she would, come what might, live alone in the world though her earnest and frequent prayers were offered that she might have strength to put away the beautiful idea which began to encroach so boldly that it terrified her-she was after all conquered-she loved! 
                  And he to whom this pure, earnest devotion was given, knew it-he could not read amiss the happy truth that spoke from her innocent eyes, and her pure heart. But, he did not know it, reader, till he had gained power to interpret her thoughts and her words, by his own. What to him, then, was beauty, when his soul fell down before her soul, and recognised and loved it? What was any thing in the wide world to him then, but her heart, when he had given her his own! Floated no longer then through his fancy an image of rare loveliness, of perfect form and feature. He had reached a higher ground of vision-far more to him than this perishing beauty of earth, became the surpassing loveliness of her mind. When, from her own words he gathered that she loved him, there was not another desire in the world that he could have named. He had all in her that he panted for. Recognization of his genius; her pure, high intellect dreamed his worthy of association; riches, her love was as a sea of gold that could flow around him in perpetual light; honor, she reverenced him! Happiness, he found the full answer in her name! 
                  But this was to him a short-lived joy. Helen only heard his declaration, and then forced to her lips utterances which, while they assured him of her love, made him dumb. 
                  The confession of his regard was what she had striven to not hear from his lips. She had continued deaf to his words, and blind to his gray eyes, questioning, so long as it was possible, and when the words were at last spoken, which in another case had, made her glad beyond all imagination, she had only to speak the truth, and even the entreaty of devout love must then forever be over, for nothing on this earth could have induced Helen to give the children of her mother to the tender mercies of a stranger-of Alfred Lord. Her love for them, and her sense of duty, conquered that other passion; then she was free. 
                  Did she, therefore, put away her love; No! a thousand times, no! And what a joy was it to Helen to feel that this affection need not be resigned-disassociated from the thought of marriage it must forever remain, but it was-it could never be less than 
                        "A thing of beauty and a joy forever."
                     
                   
                
                
                  CHAPTER XVIII. 
                  AS though, while He suffered her to be so tried, the Father of Mercy graciously regarded His child, seemed the next incident in her life's history. 
                  Once only had Harry Gray's declaration of love been permitted, once only could it be answered. The sore disappointment endured, and its freshest sting being removed, the young man dared to trust himself again in her companionship, and Helen, strong in her righteous will, dared receive him. They were thus together, when Helen received the following letter from Julia Saxe: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "I had hoped, when I next wrote you, dear, dear Nelly, to surprise and please you with the news of my letter. And now I must surprise, but it is with tears of grief. My sister, our beautiful Anna, is no longer with me-she is gone to the 'far country'-Helen, she is dead. And to you I will say what could not speak to another-she perished in her youthful loveliness and gentleness, of that most sad disease which God ever puts on woman's nature-of a broken heart. She was never, you well know, so strong as I, but she had of late years been more healthful than her childhood promised, and was so well in spirits, so exceeding beautiful! We had a friend-he was the hope of her life-how well it all went with her in those happy days! But he was taken away-then all was over with her. I would have brought her to the North, to you, dear Helen. Or I would have gone any where in the wide world to have averted from her that doom of melancholy, which, if it overshadowed, would, I knew, destroy her. She struggled with her sorrow when she saw how it troubled me, but could not hear to my proposition of leaving Charleston, where he died-it was a struggle that could not last, she died in it. 
                              "I, I cannot live here any longer, Helen. The place is consecrated by the saddest remembrances. I have seen all that was nearest to me perish here. I cannot bear it longer, and there is not a friend in the wide world to whom in this loneliness and bereavement I can so gladly, so trustingly seek, as you. Helen, dear Helen, we are with out father or mother, or sister, in this world. We know and love each other-let us be always the sisters that we are in spirit-let my home only be with your home-I would give all my fortune for a friend. It has seemed to me always as though I had a right to call you by another name than friend. I have never felt attracted towards others, as towards you from the first day I saw you at school-and that was long before we knew each other, you will recollect. That impulse which drew me then so irresistibly toward you draws me now: but for you I should be, indeed, desolate. To-morrow, or it may not be till the next week's to-morrow, I shall be with you, for I leave this place at once, never, I believe, to return to it. Adieu, 
                              
                                 JULIA."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  When Helen had finished the letter, she turned to Dr. Gray, saying: 
                  "You must come to Sunnyside the next time, to welcome my friend, Julia Saxe. I have told you so often about her that she will not seem a stranger. But you have no idea of her after all. She ii the most beautiful woman I ever beheld. You are an admirer of beauty-you will be astonished when you see her, for peerless as she is in person, her mind is the fit occupant of such a gem. It seemed to me when I parted with those twin sisters, that they were the only really perfect creatures in the world. I should have prophesied them the most happy destiny. How true that saying is, Harry, 'what we are we know, but not what we shall be.'" 
                  "Are you sure, Helen, that there is in the world such a thing as happiness?" 
                  "Yes, I am sure of it-but I believe it is not to be found till we have conquered our own wills, and perfectly submitted ourselves to the will of Heaven. Until that happens we are looking, and longing, and striving, but when we have a living faith in Him, we are at peace." 
                  "But the decrees of Heaven, Helen, seem so passing strange. From my youth up I have striven and labored, and done what was right as far as I knew how-and I assure you I have not followed my own counsel in discovering and striving to do my duty. And you, what a care has been on you always! You, too, have suffered, and have nobly borne up-you have devoted yourself to others, and now, when we might find our earthly re ward in each other's affection, see what a barrier rises before us! Oh, it is strange." 
                  "Yes, dear Harry, 'passing strange,' if there were not life in the fact, that we are proved through suffering. Strange, if we did not remember or know that our home is not in the earth, that we are all, all strangers and pilgrims here. In another way than we think now, God may yet smile upon and be merciful unto us, while we remain on earth. You may find another love, it is by no means improbable, and I in my burthens may yet be sufficiently blest." 
                  "Helen! You have not loved as I have loved, or you could not speak thus calmly." 
                  "Harry," she answered, in a solemn earnest voice, that haunted him long after, "I have sealed up, and can never bring to light the happy dreams I've had. I have struggle with and conquered a passion sion that was idolatry-but I love you yet. I shall always love you; and I think it no sin, for spirits may so love. Think how much I could confide in you, when I dare speak thus. God knows how I have wrestled-how my heart has been crushed in the wrestling. He gave me strength at last-do not take that strength away by speaking another word of this. There is such utter hopelessness in the idea of our union that it is best to never advert to it in any way. We are friends forever-it must suffice us. Let us submit without a murmur." 
                  "Amen, then, in God's name! But it is a fearful baptism into suffering, Helen," he said, and went hastily away. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XIX. 
                  A FEW evenings after this, Dr. Gray was again at Sunnyside. There had been an arrival-Julia Saxe had come. 
                  A splendid woman was she, indeed, as Helen had foretold; tall and majestic as a young monarch-of perfect figure and a perfect face. The harmony existing between her personal and mental loveliness was exquisite, and most indifferent and preoccupied must the heart have been that did not throb with pleasure, (if not with a deeper emotion,) on beholding her. 
                  Julia's coming was a great joy to Helen, and Heaven knows her sad heart needed a human comforter and support in those days. She needed a household friend-a living, understanding, conscious friendship, such as Julia alone could give; and in her thankfulnes that this was vouchsafed, she bent down more humbly and submissively in her surpassing meekness, to her destiny. And Julia was more than a companion for Helen's leisure hours. Jealous people, who called her proud and haughty, would have been astonished could they have seen the graceful bending of her lofty figure, as she joined Jamie in his sports, striving in every way for hours together to amuse him. At the first he was stubborn-proof against all her advances, but she conquered him with kindness, and he loved her then, as he did Helen; she painted, and sketched, and wrote, and sang in his room, thus almost usurping her friend's place, and when Jamie wearied of all in-door amusements, she would walk or drive with him; and between them both, these self-elected sisters rarely suffered him from their sight, for they knew if he passed beyond their control what the result would inevitably be. 
                  No, no, Julia Saxe was no garden rose-no idle ornament, no useless drone in the hive; though all who looked upon her must have felt for the first time, 
                         
                           "How perfect and divine a thing, 
                           A woman can be made." 
                        
                     
                      She was a missionary in Helen's house, and she did a missionary's work! 
                  Harry Gray spoke from the fulness of his heart, from the very height of his hope, when he asked the hand of Helen Wise in marriage. He could say from his soul that he had never seen one who could compare with her. But when he looked at these two friends together, though he did not wonder at and condemn his first love, he was conscious as time passed on of a change therein. And then, oh, reader, it became a fact almost joyous, that fate kept his hand still free, himself unbound! 
                  But-condemn not, friend, in haste. That joy was only felt at a time when Helen was not near; there was no gayety in his heart when he saw that frail, bending creature, and looked on the pleading earnestness, the meekness, and sadness of her pale, expressive countenance. 
                  When he had sought her for his wife, there was a struggle to be made, that rendered him at first less ardent in his protestations. There was nothing to excite, nothing to bring words to his lips that a calm, reasonable man would not utter to a calm sensible woman. Passionless and pure was his love, and had it been successful in its pleading, it would have remained steadfast, deep and pure forever. Now he had to overcome a fault of sight, in order to fall irrevocably in love with mind. Peerless in her loveliness, Harry could only confess to himself that Julia Saxe was grander than his ideal, more beautiful than his boyhood's dream of womanly loveliness. 
                  But there were others who thought much the same thoughts, and more than one aspired to her hand but the lady kept her heart closely shut against all these. She was accustomed to admiration, to words of flattery to the vows of men; never but once had these made an impression on her mind, and then the impression had been reversed by the discovery of unworthiness in the person with whom she had nearly allied herself. It was not likely, therefore, that she would be easily charmed or beguiled by honeyed words. If from the first she felt interested in the friend and tutor of a boy so promising as Edwin Wise, it was only because Helen spoke to her so warmly of his excellence and his talents. If she put aside in a measure the reserve and dignity which so distinguished her, when none but he and the loved inmates of Sunnyside were by it, it was certainly for no other reason than respect for his abilities and confidence in his virtue. His coming aroused no other emotion than that of friendliness, but his going never saw him lessened in her respect or admiration. 
                  It was not thus with Harry. Her presence was a fascination to him. It aroused all his powers-he could lead no half life, could think no half thoughts when she was by. In conversation with her his powers were all aroused, and his words were never more eloquent or earnest than when she was near. 
                  When Hellen Wise perceived this she did not imagine the depth of Harry's interest in her friend, though to any other than herself it had proclaimed itself in his exclamation-"Miss Saxe is certainly the most perfect work in creation; she is transcendent-a perfect wonder to me, Helen." 
                  "She is all that and more, Harry," was the fervent response, and Helen looked upon her companion with a clear look that he interpreted-"She knows and is satisfied with, that I am now madly and irretrievably in love!" 
                  "Edwin's teacher is a real nobleman, and he is a genius, too-where did he come from, Helen?" was Julia's exclamation, when Harry had left the house one evening with more of hopelessness and humility than had ever entered his heart before. 
                  There was a proud thrilling of Helen's soul as she replied, "his father was a common sailor, but he had a sort of pride in his fine boy, and gave him as much education as he could afford, which was just enough to prove a stimulant to such a lad. He persevered through all the difficulties which beset him. You see what he is, Julia-what he will be, it is not difficult to imagine." 
                  "That is noble! he has a right to be proud. I think he is very proud, don't you?" was the answering exclamation-and a faint color was perceptible on her cheek which showed she felt her words. And Julia thought as she uttered them, "Helen will believe I'm surely in love! Heigho! perhaps-hum-um." 
                   
                  "She will rejoice, the angel," murmured Harry, when he pondered on sweet words that rung in his ear through all one night-"She will be thankful that she kept so firm." 
                   
                  "I wish that Helen knew what I am thinking of," thought Julia Saxe, in those same hours. "Thank Heaven that I have yet faith enough left in man to-to-to love Harry Gray?" 
                   
                  And in those same still hours Helen knelt and said, "Oh, Father in Heaven, give me light! Let thy smile beam in that way I must tread-and give me strength to tread therein." And alight came out from Heaven, it glowed over a stern and rugged path, but, as she looked upon the thorny way, Helen grew strong and calm, and she blessed her God for the guidance. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XX. 
                  THEY were together one evening alone, the scholar and the beauty. Helen was away in a sick chamber, for during many days poor Jamie had been very ill. He was now past all danger, but Helen rarely left him for a moment-indeed, with all his fondness for Julia, he could endure no other nurse but his sister. 
                  Harry had brought with him his sketch book, according to promise, to show his drawings to the fair critic. They consisted mostly of scenery sketches, taken from many parts of the country through which he had travelled, chiefly on foot, during vacations; of women, which certainly were ideals, for there was a glory and beauty not of earth imparted to them, and glorifying them, and of flowers, Among these, not the ideals, but paintings of real women, was a head of Helen Wise. It was finely executed, and true to the life. Separated from the, deformed body, as it was, a casual acquaintance might not have recognised it-and even Julia was astonished when she observed the perfect semblance, yet the surpassing beauty and grace in the shape of the noble head, and in the profile. 
                  "I must have this," she said, when she had exhausted her praise. "I want it for a miniature. Will you give it to me!" 
                  Harry hesitated a moment, but then said-"Take all the rest, I cannot spare that, Miss Saxe," for he remembered when the picture was taken, and what different thoughts were in his mind then-very different, indeed, were they from those which now made such tumult in his heart. Julia raised her eyes, but they drooped before his gaze, and she began hurriedly to turn over the remaining papers. 
                  There was a picture of Niagara; under the exquisitely colored sketch Harry had written, "Eternity." As he handed this to this companion, he said- 
                  "The sketch is worth all the rest-all I mean, except that head of Helen. That, of course surpasses the others inasmuch as humanity takes precedence of all insensate things. I could never paint another picture with such wild tumult of thought as oppressed me when this was made. I had but just come from 'within the veil' of Niagara, and my soul was drenched with the awful majesty of nature." 
                  "This artistic power you have is beautiful," responded Julia, "it is unrhymed poetry-an artist must be a poet." 
                  "Yes, necessarily; though he is often only a silent poet. But Niagara chants its own divine hymns. They have no need of human interpretation-they do not admit it. Books cannot go out from that college. The student must himself stand in that divine presence in order to learn. It is a subject on which words which approach the truth sound too like rhapsody to be spoken. You have been at Niagara?" 
                  "Not as yet." 
                  "Then you cannot understand how I should have written Eternity underneath the picture. You should stand on the island that divides the two falls at a point where nearly all of each is visible. You should see the unchanging beauty, and hear the everlasting paean, to understand it. You will not know how much there is in life till you go there, but depend upon it you will feel all your senses to be opened then anew, as though you had entered, as it were, into life." 
                  "Yet so many speak of their disappointment at the falls. How can it be that people look so differently on such a scene? I do not comprehend it." 
                  "Don't look to see the waters gushing from the clouds, and I know you will not be disappointed. What new visions of beauty you will have! I almost envy you the first visit. One of the days that I was at Niagara, a strong wind swept the continually rising incense-clouds far down the river, and I could only think, as I looked on the ghostlike procession, of the resurrection of the Last Day. Troop after troop then came up from that roaring cavern beneath the precipice-the sun was high in the heavens, and it seemed the very power that pronounced eternal banishment upon them. As the day drew near its close, and the sun came nearer earth, it appeared as though the mighty monarch were drawing nigh to the other hosts of spirits, he called them up to his embrace and they were glorified. O! it was like a vision of Judgment! Then the next morning there was a most brilliant rainbow, springing from the dazzling whiteness of the American fall, and arching halfway across the great river. And then the harmony and sublimity of sound! Do not talk of disappointment and Niagara in one breath, Miss Saxe. You will wonder when you see for yourself that the words could ever have been joined together. I'm sure the match wasn't made in Heaven." 
                  As he spoke so fervently, Harry turned another picture-he paused abruptly as he looked upon it, but in a moment mastered his embarrassment, and laid it before his companion. It was a likeness of herself-as perfect a semblance as could be imagined-it was named "Light" 
                  "You are partial to symbols," said Julia, as she cast her eyes upon it. "But you have erred in naming this. Let me suggest another name." 
                  "I would not change it for the world-your suggestion in this matter, pardon me, would be of very little worth." 
                  "But I insist-call it a weed rather. If Niagara and disapppointment must not be spoken together, neither shall this desecration be permitted. We both judge from knowledge; have a care, or I shall call you an enthusiast, Dr. Gray." 
                  "Any thing you will-but this is Light; because light beams from it, speaks in it, lives with it! Light! light! it is all we need in this world-and how little of it we have! Oh, angel of light, if I tell you that I am in darkness, thick darkness if you do not smile upon me, will you feel any pity?" 
                  "Most assuredly I should deplore such a woful mishap-that is, if I could conceive of its reality. But I cannot-you speak of darkness when God's world is full of glory!" 
                  "To the loving, yes-if the one who is all, to them does not bring the cloud over the heaven to obscure the sun." 
                  "You believe in this sympathetic power-this ability of one person to affect the life-long happiness of another?" 
                  "Yes, and you believe it, too! You know it, lady! Teach me to woo you that I shall not offend-I know not how to speak." 
                  "Harry!" 
                  "I say teach me to speak as you would have a man speak who loves you devotedly, madly-who will be undone if you will not be all to him!" 
                  "Harry Gray!" 
                  "Yes-I, even I dare entreat-teach me-" 
                  He paused, he looked, in doubt, in astonishment. He saw her smile, saw her tears, and then he kissed her hands, and flung himself at her feet, and he too wept, for he was beside himself with joy. 
                  Not so had he wooed for the love of Helen Wise. Not to this measure had he been moved when he asked her love; not thus, in his gratitude, did he bow down before her and bless and almost worship her!' 
                  True, indeed-"we know what we are, But not what we shall be." In the placid, tranquil, diligent, retiring scholar, who had dreamed that such a pent-up fountain of passion existed! He himself, till he knew Julia Saxe, did not suspect it-but how it did burst into glowing life that blessed day when she promised to be his! 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXI. 
                  WHEN Julia told Helen of her betrothal, a sudden surprise' might have been betrayed by her listener. Schooled as she was in trial, Helen Wise had not yet acquired positive control over the emotions of her heart, or the features of her face-and though she had altogether put away every thought of Harry save as a friend, it was no trifling thing for her to hear that he had so soon wooed another, and that Julia was his promised bride. It was no little thing for her to say so tenderly as she did-"God bless you." It was no little matter for her to stand up so fairly in her weakness, with but Jamie and Edwin for her own, and that dark phantom, of future Wretchedness before her. But she did so, without paling, without trembling, without tears; though a fiercer struggle never went on for a few moments in any woman's breast. 
                  Afterwards the, time came when she could think, and Helen had not then one hard thought of Harry Gray. The surprise she really felt gave way to earnest joy, for she loved him too sincerely not to rejoice in the rich treasure he had gained. Her love for Harry was still as great as-Julia's! Yet she could cherish it without sin, though she and he were both bound now by other ties. Individual and intense that love was, but it was such as an angel might have cherished-and she had never had for him any other. 
                  Julia's intention of making the North her future home was now, of course become a fixed one. New England, Harry's native home, must henceforth be her adopted country, and if its storms and snows were but symbols of their united fate, it seemed to that noble woman as still the best of all fortunes, because it was to be shared him. 
                  Until her marriage day, which was appointed the first day of June-the month of vacation-she continued to reside with Helen. To have seen the busy, cheerful way in which Helen assisted in those preparations for marriage, none would have imagined all that had been in her heart. 
                  It was with infinite embarrassment, and real pain, that Harry Gray spoke to her of the change in his hopes, and in his plans. He did not speak a word on the subject, till she congratulated him upon his brilliant conquest, and wished him every blessing. And he wept while she did so, but her voice was firm, and her eyes undimmed by tears. Talk of heroism! Could the voice of woman gather strength and courage to speak of woman's victories, her endurance, her sorrows, her genuine valor and courage, in moments when she sees the hope of her life fading away, never, never, never to return again, it would speak of that to which the world would listen in an almost: unbelieving wonder. 
                   
                  In the beautiful parlor at Sunnyside the bridal ceremony was performed. A bright and glorious morning it was on which to register a marriage vow, but to Helen it seemed, as she saw her two dearest friends on earth going from her in their joy, as though the heavens so intensely blue, so clear, were never before so distant. 
                  Oh, our days of sorrow should be the cloudy, stormy, winter days, for the Spirit of Mercy seems then nearer and more accessible. Nature in her gloom appears to sympathize with us in our trouble-there is no mocking voice in the moaning wind, no scornful laugh at our weakness and helplessness echoing through the dull and dreary clouds. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXII. 
                  THE bridal party had hardly gone from Sunnyside, when a letter bearing a foreign post mark was handed Helen, and she read therefrom as follows: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              
                                 "To MISS HELEN WISE.
                               
                              Dear Madam-I have recently received, through your legal adviser, John Warner, a copy of your late father's will, in which I find he has made good the promise given me when I was a youth under his protection; you were an infant then. In the thought and hope that this agreement might be carried out when you were of age, I have never sought another companion, in what has at times seemed to me a very lonely pilgrimage. I remember your mother, beautiful and gentle, and always most kind-I long to know the daughter, whom I am sure she loved so well. I shall sail from Liverpool for Boston in a short time. I scarcely need say to you that my return is hastened by the receipt of the letter above mentioned. Please speak kindly of me to your brothers, and believe me, dear madam, 
                              
                                 Yours, with sincere suspect, 
                                 ALFRED LORD."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  That it was not ignorance which prompted this cruelly civil note, Helen was well aware. If, therefore, she flung it from her, and trampled it, and for that day at least forgot all things save her own miserable prospects, would you wonder? Or, if she wept alone, and hid herself from all human beings, that none might see or guess her sorrow, would that have been a strange procedure? Yet she did not this. She folded the letter, she laid it away, she conversed calmly with the visitors who came that day to the mansion, and then at twilight went with her brothers to the river a fishing. 
                  And at night when Jamie slept, and Edwin read with he, she listened attentively to him; but when she was at last alone, she surely gave up then? She could not any longer have exercised control over herself? Ay, but she did, my reader. She prayed as she was wont-she slept through all the night, and the morning saw her as composed as ever. You will think, then, that she was cold hearted; resigned, because she had no spirit to be otherwise. It was so; resigned, because she had no spirit to be otherwise. She had wrestled, and won that peace of God which passes all understanding, and it was enough. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXIII. 
                  EDWIN had already entered on his collegiate course, and in his mind had fully decided on his future profession, had indeed, made his intention known to old Dr. Sympson, who was almost as a father to him, of entering his office as a student so soon as he had graduated. Very frequently the youth found himself in the old physician's surgery, and an observer might have smiled or wondered to hear the gray headed man entering into the dry details of his business, or lecturing the lad in the elements of his profession so earnestly. 
                  More than once Edwin had driven out with the Doctor, making professional visits with him, and so it was nothing very wonderful that the chatty old man should one day make a tax on his young friend's time, by begging him to accompany him to Salem, to attend a patient there. Regularly for a week he had driven to that town, and it had become such a weary old story, he said, that he wanted some one to speak with by the way. 
                  There was an unusually thoughtful expression in the Doctor's eyes as he fixed them on Edwin and made this simple request; and the lad, who had listened with considerable interest to the account which his friend had given of the patient, gladly made ready for the drive. 
                  All the way to Salem the Doctor seemed to be in a most strange, unusual mood. Twice he began speaking with Edwin, but paused again abruptly as he had commenced-and finally, he drove on in silence, without further attempting a conversation, to the lodging of his patient. 
                  Him they found in a much better condition than had been anticipated; the fever, was abated, the distressing pains in the head and limbs were passed-and his mind, which for several days had been delirious, was now quite calm and rational. He recognised the physician, and thanked him for his kind attendance, begging that he would now continue alone in his service. He was quite cheerful, and spoke pleasantly of his speedy recovery, and of the necessity he was under of continuing his journey so soon as possible, for he was a stranger in a strange land. The Doctor remained for an hour with his patient, enlivening him with his cheerful conversation, and making all things comfortable about him, then promising to return the following day, he withdrew with Edwin. 
                  "It is one of the severest cases of that kind of fever I ever had," said he, when he turned his horse's bead homewards-and he proceeded to detail more fully to his attentive listener the state in which he found the patient at first, the medicines he had used, and the effect they had produced. 
                  But this loquacity did not last long-the greater part of the horse-ward drive was pursued in silence, till at last, as they came in sight of Sunnyside the old man, suddenly looked up and full in Edwin's face, exclaiming-"I have discovered a secret, boy." 
                  The lad returned a surprised and questioning glance, which was at once answered with the abrupt and startling announcement- 
                  "Your father is not dead. If he was ever a living man, he is sick at Salem now-him we have visited." 
                  The poor young fellow was struck dumb with astonishment as he heard this. He looked upon his informant, not with the glad, bright look of one who has heard joyous tidings, but in a bewildered, fixed amaze, to which the Doctor immediately answered-"I heard it "ill from his own lips while he was delirious, else I should never have recognised him-now, since I have heard him speak of things which establish his identity, I know that it is he." 
                  It was to that boy a bitter, grievous, as well as most unanticipated announcement, reader. To find in that miserable, diseased wretch, a FATHER! The remembrance of all that David Wise had been as a parent in the days when he lived at Sunny side with his family, was not pleasant to Edwin; young as he was when the last separation had taken place between them, the recollection of what he bad been was most vivid still, and the bare mention of the father's name had aroused thoughts which the youth would much rather have left slumbering forever. 
                  "Wait a moment," said Dr. Sympson kindly, as Edwin was about to leap from the carriage, for they bad reached his house. "Wait a moment. You must go to Salem again with me before you say a word of this to any human being. I may mistake-at all events, it is better to wait. Will you go again with me to-morrow? I think it would be safe to speak with him then on the subject-if it does not seem to be, we can then wait longer." 
                  "I will" was the scarcely audible answer of the youth, and he walked slowly towards his home. 
                  He went at once into his own apartment. He dared not look on Helen-he had no heart to devote the evening as he was wont to do, to Jamie. But, imagine if he slept all night! What an unspeakable relief it was to him when the daylight at last penetrated his room! As that constant thought, his father living, pressed upon him, it took never for an instant a hue of joy. It was no gratification to think that he who bad never been a father to his children, who had wilfully clouded the life of his idolized sister with that binding injunction of marriage with a stranger-who Had deserted his young children, leaving them in the care of others for good or ill, as it might chance, it was no joy to him to think of such a return-and no great marvel this! Natural affection is by no means instinct. For a thinking mind there is no such thing as love for a tyrant-a hard, loveless, unsocial, oppressive man, though he be a father; there may be interest most close and constant, there must be while the tie continues to exist; whether this interest is of the most humiliating, bitter, peace-destroying kind, or beyond all things pleasant land sustaining, it must depend upon the human, active agency of spirit communing with spirit-the affection between parent and child is always intelligent, sentient, therefore, it is and must be of the heart and mind, and of no other character. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXIII. 
                  WHEN Dr. Sympson, accompanied by Edwin, again saw his patient, he thought that it would be quite safe for him to convince himself of that which he so much suspected. After his professional visit was over, he remained by the old man's bed side, watching him quietly, for a few moments. At last he said- 
                  "Mr. Wise, I have brought Edwin to visit you." 
                  It was so simply said, that the sick man looked up and was scarcely startled at hearing himself called by name. His gaze fixed a moment on Edwin, then his eyes closed, and he spoke, but so confusedly and low, that his words were undistinguishable. 
                  "Mr. Wise," said the doctor again, "do you not remember Edwin, your son? This is he. I have brought him from Sunnyside to visit you." 
                   
                  These words, slowly and distinctly enounced, roused him completely-he sat up in the bed and fixed his bloodshot eyes again on his son, and long and anxiously scanned his features. A mortal paleness overspread the youth's face as he met that gaze; a hundred emotions were struggling in his breast, as he looked on that age-worn face-at last, mightily struggling with his own spirit, he murmured "Father," and the tears began to gather in his eyes. 
                  "Yes-it must be," was the answer to that word. "You are very like Emma. I did not think to see you so much grown. You are almost a man. How long the time has been!" 
                  "They told us you were dead, father," said Edwin. 
                  "Dead, dead!" exclaimed he. "Yes, I have been dead! I died years ago. I'm not a living man-my soul is in the torments of hell. Nothing can chain it! Don't look at me so-away! I didn't come here to seek you-off-off!" He attempted in the delirium that possessed him to leap from the bed, but the doctor, who had attentively watched the change in his patient, was swifter than he, and prevented it. 
                  The excitement add conflicting emotions aroused in the sick man brought on a relapse; for a week little thought of his recovery was entertained-but at last, owing to the unremitted attention of those about him, the disease was conquered-but the patient was left weak as an infant. 
                  It was during his slow recovery that Edwin, who was become a constant watcher beside his bed, for the first time proposed his parent's removal to Sunnyside. But of this the old man would not hear a word. He expressed, however, now, and for the first time, a wish to see his other children. 
                  Helen, who had been acquainted with his most unlooked-for return to the living, had waited expectantly and anxiously for many reasons for this summons, and it was with a satisfaction that, after all, was greater than the painful thoughts which would suggest themselves, that she set out for Salem to visit him. 
                  Most strange it was-of his children, Jamie, the idiot-born, was the only one who recognised his father in the sick man who awaited their coming. When, with his arm locked in the trembling Helen's, they went up to David Wise, and the poor girl, remembering that she was his child, bent over the ghost of a man and kissed him, the poor fellow's eyes fixed with wild and startled gaze upon the features of the father; a change came over his countenance, it lost its placid calmness, and rage, and hate, alone were visible. With wild and threatening gestures, and wrathful voice, he exclaimed against the invalid, until his watchful sister, who had not for years seen him so excited, led him, gently away, and returned again alone to the sick chamber. 
                  "Helen, they tell me you are not married," was his salutation when she came once more and sat down beside him. 
                  "It is true father," she replied. "We heard that you were not living; when the will was opened, Mr. Warren made its contents known to-to the man they chiefly concerned. He was away then, and has not yet returned." 
                  "Was it your intention to many him?' 
                  "Yes-for I could not hear that my mother's children, her dear Jamie and Edwin, should be left to the care of a stranger. Poor Jamie, I could have done far more than that you required for his sake." 
                  "When is Alfred Lord coming back?" 
                  "He wrote that he should come this month." 
                  "Then you can be married here, and I will see it done before I die," he said in a tone that was almost exultant. 
                  "It's a great match for you. I Couldn't do too much for Alfred Lord either; though Us doing rib great things to give him-you, to be sure. He has rendered me great services-it was only just that I should through you give my property to him. I knew, of course, that you would comply with my desire." 
                  There was only a gentle inclination of the head in answer to this speech, for Helen could not trust herself to answer a word. 
                  Oh, the lamb for that sacrifice to parental tyranny was, indeed, Worthy. 
                  "I was carried among the dead from the hospital in Naples," resumed the old man. "The cholera was raging there. The person I made my agent for transacting business matters was also dead when I recovered. He had doubtless written your lawyer as directed. But I have written since-at least think I did-I meant it-perhaps the letter miscarried." 
                  "Father," said Helen, resolved in spite of all he had said to make one more appeal before she left him that day. "Father, must the tenor of that will be carried into effect? When you recover how will it be?" 
                  "I have set my heart on your marrying him. I shall not get well." 
                  "If your life is spared, dear father, and I cannot promise to be his wife, how will it be?" 
                  "I tell you the marriage must go on, I have sworn it-and, besides, you would otherwise be left a beggar." 
                  Helen made no reply to this, she merely took his hand in hers an instant, and went from him without uttering a word; but, if ever a beggar's life was coveted, it was by that daughter, as, joining her brothers, she returned home again. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXIV. 
                  WHEN second visit Helen made her father was after a lapse of many days. 
                   
                  Harry and Julia Gray had returned from their bridal tour-those four eventful weeks had been full of happy days for them, had opened to the vision of such pure, bright depths of soul, such as gave them confidence and perfect faith forever in each other. 
                  When Helen told her friend the story of her father's most unlocked for return, and his unalterable determination of remaining in Salem while he lived, and of the unflinching will with which he pronounced her doom of marriage, Julia expressed her determination of at once proceeding to see the old man. She would argue with him herself, she said, and she would make him die as a Christian man should, at peace, and in love with his children. 
                  Thus it was that Julia and Helen went alone one day to visit David Wise. 
                  When they went into his apartment they found him alone and sleeping, and they went softly back to the ante-chamber to wait till he should waken. 
                  They sate conversing there in an under tone, when suddenly Julia's voice was raised in a cry of terror. The old man had risen unheard, and before they were aware, he stood in the doorway, gazing full upon them with those bright eyes, in which a serpent-like power of fascination lurked. Julia smiled at her own cry, even as she uttered it, though, in truth, there was something terrific in the emaciated, wild appearance David Wise presented. 
                  He entered the room, after a moment's hesitation, and sat down directly facing Julia, looking upon her cautiously and earnestly, as though he were afraid of her. Soon he arose and drew nearer to her, while she, striving to shake off that disagreeable feeling which oppressed her, as she returned his gaze, endeavored to enter into conversation with him, but the old man would neither answer nor take his gaze from her. At last he seemed satisfied, and turning from the beautiful woman to his own poor child, he exclaimed with a horrid oath- 
                  "Tell me that woman's name!" 
                  "Yes, papa," said Helen quickly. "Her name is, was, Julia Saxe-she is my very dearest friend." 
                  "Get out then-away with you-are you fiends that you come here to make me mad?" 
                  "Why, we only came to visit you a little while, dear papa," said Helen, soothingly. 
                  "Do you want to kill me?" he added, unmindful of her interruption. "Go off, I say! you-you-what are you here for? Did I ever seek you out? Did I ever claim you?"-pointing to Julia-"for my child? Tell me, did your mother send you here?" 
                  "My mother is an angel in heaven," was the answer made to this outbreak. 
                  "Well, I tell you-I will tell you!-hush! there-I'm going to swear it. I say, I swear it. Does it content you to know that? She was my wife once, and there was you, and the other she called Anna. It was twenty years ago I came from there, and if, I left her to marry another woman, poor fool she was indeed to marry me-wasn't it enough that I did it? Haven't I been paid for it over a hundred times?" 
                  Poor creature! he was speaking to dumb witnesses and listeners. To that shameful confession of sin, wrung from a tortured conscience, they could make no answer. Though conviction of the truth of his declaration flashed like lightling upon them-though to Helen the mystery of that portrait of the mother of-her sister was now made clear as by a lightning flash-though to Julia the deep grief that had bowed her beautiful mother, after years of suffering, to the grave, was all explained; it was to neither of them a moment of rejoicing, when they knew that the fond name by which they had loved to call each other, was indeed a name that they were entitled to use. They could have wept their lives away as they hearkened to the acknowledgment of guilt which that white haired man, standing on the verge of the grave, found himself compelled to, make to his innocent, guileless children. 
                  They left him that day quite forgetful of the object of their visit, and without speaking, without a parting embrace; utterly voiceless they returned to their homes; but when they parted, Julia clasped the little trembling form of Helen in her arms for one moment, whispering, "Nelly, my own dear, sweet sister, kiss me once more;" and they separated, bearing each other's kisses with them; separated in sorrow, but in love as deep as that sorrow, to keep that secret with them to their dying day-to bear it with them to the grave! 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXV. 
                  ON the morning of the next day, when Helen entered James' room, as was her custom, to awaken him, she was startled and alarmed to find it vacant, for it was some time before his usual hour of waking. Turning to the screened corner where his bed stood, she saw that it had not been at all used in the night; yet was Helen sure that she had seen him go into his chamber when she went to her own. What could it mean? Nothing of the kind had ever occurred before-no infant was ever guarded with more watchful, constant care than Jamie Wise had been, by the sister who was as a mother to him. What could this strange and most unusual occurrence mean? 
                  Through the house and the gardens and the grove Helen went, at first alone, and then with the rest of the alarmed household, but she found no trace of him. Then they began a search for him through the town, while Helen awaited the result of their seeking in a state of agonized suspense indescribable. 
                  Let us look into the silence and the shadow of the awful night that had passed. 
                  Jamie had, as Helen felt persuaded, gone to his room a little time before she retired, but, buried in her own thoughts, she had forgotten to see if he slept, ere she herself closed her eyes in slumbering. 
                  When all was still at Sunnyside, the idiot boy went out with stealthy step from his chamber, and through the house unheard. He was armed and mounted on the fleet horse, which a neighbor had turned out to pasture, in little time, and away he went with lightning speed, on that road which he had once before taken, when he went with Helen and Edwin on a visit, which had haunted him ever since it was made. 
                  It was midnight; night without a visible star, when Jamie reached the house he sought in Salem. As he approached the dwelling on foot, a man came from thence-a person who had been staying with the invalid till that late hour. The boy saw him close the door, and a moment after, with a short, bitter laugh, his hand was laid upon the lock, his feet were on the stairs, and he stood alone in the room with his father! 
                  The physician, or who ever the person was, had remained with the invalid till he slept. Had his first-born son come to maintain like watch? 
                  If the aged slumberer had awakened then, he had seen a youthful form bend close above him, had felt the warm, quick breath of Jamie on his cheek-had seen two brilliant, savage eyes fixed, peering through the night gloom, upon him! Had he listened, his ear would have caught the repeated, low, and half demoniac laugh. There!-there! if his eyes had just opened then, they would have seen the uplifted hand of the once idolized boy hovering, only for a moment, over his devoted head. 
                  But-the poor old man, he did not waken, did not hear-he knew nothing of it. His life went out, when the small, slender hands, which Helen had oft-times clasped in her own, wound round his neck! There was only a momentary resistance, then all was over. 
                  When the morning came, they who had the sick man in their charge, found that their aid was no longer to be sought-for none were needed then to guard and nurse old David Wise. The idiot son had usurped their place-they found him chuckling in joy by the bedside of his murdered father. 
                  It was near noonday before the tidings of this dreadful tragedy reached Sunnyside; and it was poor Edwin's lot to speak of the awful facts to Helen. When she saw him coming home at last, she went out to meet him, for her heart was breaking with fear for Jamie. The brother and sister met, but neither spoke. There was something in the troubled, wretched expression of Edwin's eyes as he looked on her, that choked the words Helen would fain have spoken, in their utterance. When they had entered the house again, Edwin vainly Striving to speak, calmly said- 
                  "Helen, could you bear it, if you knew that you were never to see our poor, dear Jamie again?" 
                  "Tell me! what is it?" she answered with such earnestness that it had sounded in any but Helen Wise a harsh command, "Why Jamie, is he dead? speak Edwin." 
                   
                  "He is not dead; but they have removed him to another place. They think it better that he should live now in an asylum where such poor unfortunates are cared for, dear Helen." 
                  "How dared they do it?" was the angry exclamation, forced, in bitter anguish, from lips which, till that day, had never uttered a word in wrath. "Is this your work, Edwin?" 
                  "No! no! Helen, I have had nothing to do with it. I knew nothing of it," was the mild answer. "You wrong me by the thought; he was out last night, and the doctor found him, and said that it was not safe he should be left free any longer." 
                  "It is the first time he was ever out so! I've made him my care since he was a child! Edwin I had the best and only right to take charge of him-no one on earth had such a right. How many years have I labored to save him from this fate. I must have him back again." 
                  "Have they told you of our father to-day?" asked Edwin, anxious at any cost to change the current of her thoughts. 
                  "No," was the answer, and Helen looked inquiringly in her brother's face, for the solemn tone of his voice told her he had yet more to say. 
                  "Dear Helen, he is dead." 
                  "God's will be done," she calmly answered; and shortly after she added, "he must be brought home for burial, Edwin." 
                  "Yes," was the choked utterance, and the boy turned hastily from Helen, he could not tell her all. 
                  Helen Wise never saw her Jamie again. It was from Julia's lips, in after days, that she learned the dreadful story of his unconquerable hate for the father who had senselessly and brutishly sought to govern him years before, and when she heard that, she dared not make one single plea that be might be given back to her fond keeping. Her work with him she now knew was over; oh, what a work it had been! but if the prayers which bore his dear name, and the thoughts which held him in faithful remembrance, if the tears she shed, if the love which, till her death-day, she kept for him, might be spoken in my words, an affection such as only the heart of a woman can bear, Would be revealed; and you would wonder but to hear of it! 
                  The afternoon on which her father's death was made known to Helen, a hearse, followed by two mourning carriages, was driven up to the avenue of Sunnyside, and Helen and Edwin Wise met their parent on his final return, in the great hall of the silent mansion. He came voiceless and sightless now-there was no uttered word of welcome-few tears-very little lamentation, and the grave closed over him and his sins. His children prayed to God, but not for strength to bear his loss. They needed not that, other griefs and fears pressed too heavily upon them to admit of lamentation over the clay that was now returned to its nobler dust. For Helen there was yet a future on earth-dark, cheerless, and dreadful. The thought of it was what made her droop so wearily when she stood by the grave of David Wise, listening to the burial service for the dead; and the remembrance of the injustice of the lifeless man; oh, was it not most mournful, was that which lingered longest after his funeral day! 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXVI. 
                  JULY, August, and September passed away, and Alfred Lord had not yet made his appearance at --, to claim his promised bride; but the idea of his probable coming had ceased to trouble Helen Wise. 
                  As time passed on and she gained power to survey her own position from every point of view, it seemed nothing to her if Sunnyside did fall to the appointed bridegroom. For Edwin, there was now no manner of reason to fear-for herself, no cause to hope. Jamie was gone beyond her care forever. The sweetest dream of woman had passed even as she dreamed it. Now the world, the wide world, was all alike to her. Since the child of her care was hers no longer, she was fully resolved to resign all claim to her old, beautiful home, the moment Alfred Lord appeared. Edwin would very soon, with his fine abilities, be able to care for himself; and she, at the worst, among strangers, and in obscurity, there was no danger, could provide for her own few wants. So was her spirit calm now. 
                  On the first of October, another letter from Mr. Lord reached Helen; it was post marked New York! The letter was opened without the least emotion, for her mind was so quiet now in its resolves, that all the powers of earth could not have shaken it. Therefore it was that she read with perfect calmness: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "I have heard so much, since my recent arrival in New York, from one whom you do not number among your personal friends, of the true heroism of your nature, that glad and proud as I should be to call you my wife, I have determined not to do so, without I can win your lull, unbiassed consent. Will you permit me to visit you for the purpose of making an acquaintance which, in any event, I shall be proud to have formed? 
                              
                                 ALFRED LORD."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  To this letter Helen thus immediately replied: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "I thank you for the courtesy with which you have written me; I would earnestly beg you to maintain your charitable and most honorable resolution. The property which my father left you, unconditionally, I am ready at any moment to resign in your favor; but, if you value your own self-respect, and my respect and life-long gratitude, acquaint me with your decision by letter, and do not come hither until I am gone. 
                              
                                 HELEN WISE."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  There came an unlooked-for answer to this letter, in the shape of a legal document transferring Sunnyside unreservedly to Helen and Edwin Wise, and this was the manly greeting that came with it: 
                   
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "Heaven has blest my life of labor, and I cannot take from the orphan that to which God has given me no title. Your father was, as he has told me, vastly indebted to my father years ago; he cancelled that debt in his kindness and care when I was a penniless orphan. I remember him with gratitude, and I have far too much regard for his children to ever willfully cause them an instant's pain. May He, from whom all blessings come, bless you, my friends. 
                              
                                 ALFRED LORD. 
                                  
                                    To Helen and Edwin Wise." 
                                 
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  That man did well in this. That is-he did his duty. But people, in his day, made too much of the act of justice, they magnified his generous deed, and, in the glory of it, forgot the simple merit of the case. Alas for human nature! 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXVII. 
                  HELEN WISE lived long after the trial times of her life were over. She lived to see the brown hair silvering on the temples of the lover of her youth-too see the children who bore his name growing up the honor and the beauty of his house. She lived to see her Edwin high in the ranks of his useful and honorable profession, while he sought no other hearth or companionship than that she had made so pleasant and so cheerful. And, oh, for still in those calm days the grief, though chastened, was mingled sometimes with the quiet joy, she lived to receive another, the most precious of the dead, back to her heart again, to give her Jamie a funeral and a burial place. Long before she passed from earth he died-and, long before she sought the heavenly home, there was another death for which Helen wept, that of the Withered Fig Tree; the emblem of her blighted life, her blighted heart-the symbol of her spiritual power, that could conquer deformity and weakness-that could spread beauty over desolation-that could, from its crushed bosom, send out loveliness of life, pure sympathy, and beautiful strength. 
                
               THE END. 
             
         
       
       
          
             
            THE IRON MASK! 
            OR, THE FEATS & ADVENTURES OF RAOUL DE BRAGELONNE. 
            Being the final Conclusion of "The Three Guardsmen." "Twenty Tears After," and "Bragelonne, the Son of Athos." 
            BY ALEXANDRE DUMAS, AUTHOR OP THB "THREE GUARDSMEN," "COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO," "ISABEL OF BAVARIA," "GENEVIEVE, OR THE REIGN OF TERROR," DIANA OF MERIDOR," &c. &c. 
            Complete in two large Octavo volumes of 420 pages, printed on the finest white paper. With. Beautifully Illustrated Covers, Portraits and Engravings. 
            PRICE FOR THE ENTIRE WORK, ONE DOLLAR. 
            T.B. PETERSON, No. 98 CHESTNUT STREET, Philadelphia, having purchased the advance sheets, in French, of the above great work, at a large expense, and having had it translated into English by the best French translator in the world, Thomas Williams, Esq., of the city of New York, and late of Paris, he being an intimate friend of Alexandre Dumas, takes great pleasure in announcing to the people of this country that the above master-piece of Alexandre Dumas has just been published by him, in two large octavo volumes, of four hundred and twenty pages, with beautifully illustrated covers and portraits, printed from fine engravings and new stereotype plates, on the best of white paper. Price Fifty cents a volume. 
            All persons will agree in pronouncing this work to be the chief-d'uvre and greatest work over penned by Alexandre Dumas. It is a work possessing more interest than any other he has ever written. That mystery which has puzzled the world during nearly two centuries, "THE PRISONER IN THE IRON MASK," is completely solved, and in a manner so powerful, interesting and ingenious, that this episode of itself renders the work invaluable to all persons. 
            We will not praise the work ourselves, but we annex a few notices of the Press in relation to it, to show what they think of it:- 
            
               From the Philadelphia North American and United States Gazette.-THE IROW MASK; or Feats and Adventures of Raoul De Bragelonne, by ALEXANDRE DUMAS. This is one of the best novels which have ever come from the prolific pen of Dumas, and is now completed by the publication of the second volume, just issued by T. B. Peterson, 98 Chestnut street. Those who have taken an interest in the 'Three Guardsmen,' and their successors, will, of course, be anxious to see how the various characters are disposed of, while the episode of the 'Prisoner in the Iron Mask,' will, no doubt attract many fresh readers." 
            
               Hear what Col. Wallace, the editor of the Philadelphia Daily Sun, says of it:-"No work of fiction ever written possesses more interest than this. It was feared that the French Revolution, and the prominent political part taken by Dumas, would induce him to abandon the field of fiction: but it is with unfeigned satisfaction that we have an evidence to the contrary in the 'Iron Mask.' The four inseparable friends, D'Artagnan, Athos, Aramis and Porthos-the types of perseverance, dignity, intellect and physical strength-are still the prominent characters, and the scene is laid during the truly romantic reign of Louis XIV. The mysterious State Prisoner, the Man in the Iron Mask, gives the name to this work. The book will be sought after with avidity by everybody, and will prove to be the best and most popular book of this century. We advise all persons to get it and read it, or otherwise they will lose a rich treat." 
            
               From the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin.-"THE IRON MASK, complete In two volumes, has just been published by T. B. Peterson, No. 98 Chestnut street. This story finishes that powerful series of historical novels, by Alexandre Dumas, which, under the names of the 'Three Guardsmen,' 'Twenty years After,' 'Bragelonne,' and 'The Iron Mask,' conduct the reader through the reigns of Louis XIII., and XIV., of France, in one of the most brilliant panoramas known in fiction. Every one who has read the preceding novels will desire to see how the characters are finally disposed of, while the story of the celebrated "Prisoner in the Iron Mask,' will attract hundreds of new readers." 
            
               From McMakin's Model American Saturday Courier.-"THE IRON MASK.-This last and most absorbing and best of Alexandre Dumas' celebrated works, has been issued by T. B. Peterson, No. 98 Chestnut street, Mr. P., having purchased the advance sheets of the great French novelist It is one of the most powerful works of the day, and is destined to have a very great sale." 
            
               From the New York Daily Tribune.-"DUMAS' GREAT WORK-THE IRON MASK.-We would call the attention of our readers to this celebrated work of Alexandre Dumas. It is now published complete in two volumes, and will no doubt prove to be one of the most popular works ever printed in this country. It is the conclusion of that interesting series of novels commencing with the Three Guardsmen." 
            
               From the Daily Standard, Elizabethtown, N. J.-"THE IRON MASK.-Here is a work destined to have an immense sale, for every person who has read the novels to which this is a sequel, and there are tens and tens of thousands, will all desire to peruse this. Of all the novelists of France, Dumas, as an historical writer, is the best; and this work is confessedly his master-piece; therefore no one can err in purchasing 'The Iron Mask.' Mr. P., has issued the work in excellent style." 
            
               From the Philadelphia Saturday Gazette.-"THE IRON MASK. Dumas has been called, and not without justice, the Sir Walter Scott of France. He certainly excels all other novelists of that country in the walk of historical fiction. In addition he has the merit, rare for a feuilleton writer, of not pandering to immorality, either covertly or openly. His best novels are the series of which this forms the conclusion; and of the whole four we regard 'The Iron Mask' as the master-piece Whoever wishes for a vivid picture of the age of Louis XIV., whoever desires au absorbing fiction, will peruse these volumes. Those who have read the former novels of the series, and are interested in the fate of the inimitable D'Artagnan, of Bragelonne, or of the other characters of the story, will of course purchase this continuation, while those who have never met the preceding novels will be gratified with this alone. Was there nothing else of interest in those volumes, the episode of the Iron Mask would be of itself worth the price of the book." 
            
               Hear what Thos. Williams, Esq., of New York, the Translator of the word, says of it:-"Since the French Revolution, Dumas has resumed his favorite work, and which all agree in pronouncing his chief-d'uvre, and he has for some months past been occupied in completing this sequel to the 'Three Guardsmen,' 'Twenty Tears After,' and 'Bragelonne.' The scenes which were but merely sketched in the hasty conclusion, he haft elaborated with his usual skill t it is a work possessing more interest than any other ho has ever written. Our old friends, D'Artagnan, Athos, Aramis and Porthos, are still its leading characters, while many new ones are introduced, throwing much light upon the history of those times, and the intrigues of the French Court during the early part of the reign of Louis XIV. That mystery which bad puzzled the world during nearly two centuries, 'The Prisoner in the Iron Mask,' is completely solved, and in a manner so powerful, interesting and ingenious, that this episode of itself renders the work invaluable." 
            
               From the Philadelphia Daily Pennsylvania Inquirer.-"THE IRON MASK.-It Is a powerful work by Dumas, which hat just been published in a cheap and handsome form, by Mr T. B. Peterson. It is full of incident and interest, and will have a very large sale, and prove to be one of the most popular Works ever printed. It if truly historical, and if Dumas' masterpiece." 
            
               From the Philadelphia, Public Ledger.-"THE IRON MASK, or Feats and Adventures of Raoul De Bragelonne, by Alexandre Dumas.-This is one of the most interesting novels which have over come from the pen of Alexandra Dumas." 
            Copies of the above work will be sent to any one on receipt of remittances, addressed to the Publisher. 
          
          
             
            BOOKS FOR EVERYBODY, PRINTED FOR THE "MILLION," AT GREATLY REDUCED RATES. 
            THEY COMPRISE THE MOST MORAL, POPULAR, HUMOROUS, EXCITING, AND ENTERTAINING IN THE WORLD, Suitable for the Parlor, Library, Sitting Room, Railroad, Steamboat, or Chamber Reading, Published and for sale by T. B. PETERSON, No. 98 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. 
            The following books are published at the very low price of Twenty-Five cents each, or any five of them for One Dollar. 
             
               The following are by MISS ELLEN PICKERING. 
               Orphan Niece. 
               Kate Walsingham. 
               Poor Cousin. 
               Ellen Wareham. 
               Who Shall be Heir? 
               The Secret Foe. 
               The Expectant. 
               The Fright. 
               Quiet Husband. 
               Nan Darrell. 
               Cousin Hinton. 
               Prince and Pedlar. 
               Merchant's Daughter. 
               The Squire. 
               Agnes Serle. 
               The Heiress. 
             
             
               The following are by CAPTAIN MARRY ATT. 
               Peter Simple. 
               Jacob Faithful. 
               Phantom Ship. 
               King's Own. 
               Snarleyow. 
               Japhet in Search of a Father. 
               The Naval Officer. 
               Newton Forster. 
               Midshipman Easy. 
               Pacha of Many Tales. 
               Pirate and Three Cutters. 
             
             
               The following are by MRS. GREY. 
               Lena Cameron. 
               Belle of the Family. 
               Sybil Lennard. 
               Harry Monk. 
               Duke and Cousin. 
               The Little Wife. 
               Manuvring Mother. 
               Baronet's Daughters. 
               Young Prima Donna. 
               Old Dower House. 
               Hyacinthe, or the Contrast. 
               Alice Seymour. 
             
             
               The following are by T.S. ARTHUR. 
               Orphan Children. 
               Love in High Life. 
               Debtor's Daughter: or Life and its Changes. 
               Mary Moreton: or The Broken Promise. 
               Love in a Cottage. 
               The Two Brides. 
               Agnes, or the Possessed: A Revelation of Mesmerism. 
               Insubordination: or The Shoemaker's Daughters. 
               Lucy Sandford: A Story of the Heart. 
             
             
               Works by the MOST POPULAR AUTHORS. 
               Agnes Grey, an Autobiography, by Author of "Jane Eyre." 
               Roanoke; or Where is Utopia. By C. H. Wiley. 
               Eva St. Clair, by G. P. R. James, author of "Richelieu." 
               Moreton Hall, or the Haunted House, by R. Phipps, esq. 
               The Beautiful French Girl. A good book. 
               Mysteries of Bedlam, or Annals of the Mad House. 
               Ninon De L'Enclos, her Life and Adventures. 
               Life of Henry Thomas, the Burglar and Murderer. 
               Pictorial Life and Adventures of Dick Turpin. 
               The Desperadoes of the New World. Illustrated. 
               The Orphan Child, by the Countess of Blessington. 
               Grace Dudley, or Arnold at Saratoga, by Charles J. Peterson. 
               The Ghost Stories. A Wonderful Book, Illustrated. 
               Madison's Exposition of Odd Fellowship. 
               Father Clement, by Author of "Dunallen." 
               Abbey of Innismoyle, a Charming and Beautiful Story. 
               The Insnared, by Lady Charlotte Bury. 
               Flirtation, a Story of the Heart, by Lady Charlotte Bury. 
               The Fortune Hunter, by Mrs. Anna Cora Mowatt. 
               Abednego, the Money Lender, by Mrs. Gore. 
               Gilddon's Ancient Egypt, her Monuments, Relics, &c. 
               True Art of Healing the Sick, by Dr. Hollick. 
             
             
               Professor LIEBIG'S valuable Works on Chemistry. 
               Agricultural Chemistry, 135 pages. Price 25 cents. 
               Animal Chemistry, 111 pages. Price 25 cents. 
               Letters on Chemistry. First Series. Price 25 cents. 
               Letters on Chemistry. Second Series. Price 25 cents. 
               Juices in the Animal Body. Price 25 cents. 
               The Chemistry of Food. Price 25 cents. 
               Chemistry and Physics in relation to Physiology and Pathology. Price 25 cents. The above works of Liebig, are also published in uniform style, bound, price Two Dollars. 
             
            FIVE OF ANY OF THE BOOKS MENTIONED ABOVE, will be given to any one, or sent to any one, to any place in this city or country, for One Dollar, or eleven of any of them will be given for Two Dollars, or seventeen for Three Dollars. So make out your lists all over the city and country, and lay in a stock of books, and call in person, or send on your orders at once for them. The price of any single one is 25 cents. Persons in the country need only enclose One Dollar or more in a letter, to T. B. Peterson, and say what books they wish, and they will be sent at once. So send on your letters and get the books you wish without delay. 
             
               LEVER'S NOVELS.-The most Humorous in the World. 
               Charles O'Malley, the Irish Dragoon. Complete in one volume of 324 pages. Price 60 cents. 
               Horace Templeton. Lever's New Book. Complete in one large octavo volume of 228 pages. Price 50 cents. 
               Tom Burke of Ours. 270 pages. Price 50 cents. 
               Arthur O'Leary. Illustrated. 221 pages. Price 50 cents. 
               Jack Hinton, the Guardsman. Complete in one large octavo volume of 165 pages. Price 37 cents. 
               The Knight of Gwynne. 226 pages. Price 50 cents. 
               Harry Lorrequer. 404 pages. Price 50 cents. 
             
             
               Alexander Dumas' works. The best in the world. 
               The Iron Mask, or the Feats and Adventures of Raoul de Bragelonne. Being the conclusion of "The Three Guardsmen," Complete in 420 large octavo pages. Price One Dollar. 
               Louise La Valliere; or the Second Series and end of the "Iron Mask," being the final conclusion of "The Three Guardsmen," etc., etc. Two volumes. Price One Dollar. 
               Diana of Meridor; the Lady of Monsoreau: or France in the Sixteenth Century. 538 pages. Price One Dollar. 
               The Reign of Terror; Genevieve, or the Chevalier of the Maison Rouge. 200 pages. Illustrated. Price 50 cents. 
               Isabel of Bavaria; or the Chronicles of France for the Reign of Charles the Sixth. 212 pages. Price 50 cents. 
               Edmond Dantes. Being a sequel to Dumas' celebrated novel of the Count of Monte Cristo. 200 pages. Price 50 cents. 
             
             
               LIPPARD'S WORKS.-The most Exciting In the World. 
               Washington and His Generals; or Legends of the American Revolution. 538 pages. Price One Dollar. 
               The Quaker City; or the Monks of Monk Hall. Illustrated with engravings. 500 pages. Price One Dollar. 
               Paul Ardenheim; the Monk of Wissahikon. A Romance of the Revolution. 600 pages. Price One Dollar. 
               Legends of Mexico. 128 pages. Price 25 cents. 
               The Nazarene. Volume One. 250 pages. Price 50 cents. 
               Blanche of Brandywine. 350 pages. Price 75 cents. 
               Bel of Prairie Eden. A Romance of Mexico. 25 cents. 
             
             
               Works by the BEST AUTHORS in the World. 
               Valentine Vox, the Ventriloquist. By Henry Cockton. 317 pages. Price 50 cents; or a fine illustrated edition. 75 cts. 
               The Parricide. By G.W. Reynolds, illustrated. 50 cents. 
               Ten Thousand a Year. By the author of a "Diary of a London Physician." 432 pages. Price 50 cents. 
               The Illustrated Wandering Jew. By Eugene Sue. With 87 large illustrations. Two volumes, each 50 cents. 
               Life in Paris. By Reynolds. Illustrated. Price 37 cents. 
               Salathiel. By Rev. George Croly. Price 50 cents. 
               First and True Love. By George Sand, author of "Consuelo," "Indiana." etc., beautifully illustrated, 228 pps. 50 cts. 
               Cruising in the Last War. First and Second Series. Being the complete work, by Charles J. Peterson. Price 50 cets. 
               Life of Jack Sheppard, the most noted burglar, robber, and jail breaker that ever lived. Illustrated. Price 50 cents. 
               Mysteries of Three Cities, Boston, New York, and Philadelphia. By A. J. H. Duganne. 200 pages. Price 50 cents. 
               Red Indians of Newfoundland. A beautifully illustrated Indian Story, by author of "Prairie Bird." Price 50 cts. 
               Harris's Adventures in Africa. This book is a rich treat. Two volumes. Price $1.00, or handsomely bound $1.50. 
               Indiana. By George Sand, author of "First and True Love," etc. A very bewitching and interesting work. 258 pps. 50 cts. 
               The Petrel; or Love on the Ocean. A sea novel equal to the best, by Admiral Fisber. 200 pages. Price 50 cts. 
               The New Newgate Calendar; or the Chronicles of Crime. Beautifully illustrated with Twenty-Eight Engravings. Two vols., 480 pages, price One Dollar. 
               The Chronicles of Crime; or the Second Series and conclusion of the New Newgate Calendar. Beautifully illustrated. Two vols., 480 pages. Price One Dollar. 
               Pictorial Life and Adventures of Guy Fawkes; The Bloody Tower, etc. Illustrated. 200 pages. Price 50 cents. 
               The Tower of London. By William Harrison Ainsworth. With 100 splendid engravings. Two volumes. Each 50 cents. 
               Aristocracy, or Life among the Upper Ten. Price 50 cents. 
               Llorente's History of the Inquisition in Spain, Complete in one large octavo volume. Price 37 1/2 cents. 
               Philip in Search of n Wife. An excellent book, 25 cts. 
               Rural Life in New England. A beautiful book, 25 cts. 
               Dr. Hollick's Anatomy and Physiology, with a large dissected plate of the Human Figure, colored to life. the celebrated Dr. Hollick. with his portrait. Price One Dollar. 
               The Lady's Work Table Book. Price 50 cents. 
               Life of the Rev. John N. Maffit. Price 12 1/2 cents. 
               Odd Fellowship Exposed. Illustrated. Price 12 1/2 cents. 
               Mormonism Exposed. Full of Engravings. Price 12 1/2 cts. 
             
            A discount of 20 per cent will be made to all persons on buying One Dollar's worth or more of Peterson's Books. 
            T.B. PETERSON'S Cheap Book, Magazine, Newspaper and Publishing Establishment, is at No. 98 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. 
            From which place he will supply all orders for any books at all in advance of all others, and at publishers' lowest cash prices. He respectfully invites Country Merchants, Booksellers, Pedlers, Canvassers, Agents, the Trade, Strangers in the City, and the Public generally, to call and examine his extensive collection of cheap publications, where they will be sure to find all the latest and cheapest works published in this country or elsewhere, any of which will be sold at very low prices. Call and be convinced. 
            T.B. Peterson is also agent for, and receives subscriptions to any of the Monthly Magazines and Weekly Newspapers, which will be served regularly to subscribers in any part of the city or districts, or mailed to subscribers to any place in this country. 
            Agents, Pedlers, Canvassers, Booksellers, News Agents, &c., throughout the country, who wish to make money on a small capital, would do well to address T.B. Peterson, who will furnish a complete outfit for a comparatively small amount. 
            All orders from Booksellers, News Agents, etc., will be filled at as low prices, if not lower, than at any other hose in this country. 
          
       
   
