
    ----CITATION----
        L. M. M.. Olie, or, The Old West Room .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7245
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Olie, or, The old west room 
            
               THE OLD WEST ROOM. THE WEARY AT WORK AND THE WEARY AT REST. By L. M. M. NEW YORK: PUBLISHED BY MASON BROTHERS, 28 PARK ROW. 1855.   Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1855, by MASON BROTHERS, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York. STEREOTYED BIS                      'RITEID BY THOMAS B. SMTH,                    JOHN A. GRAY, 82 a 84 Beekma S3t.                     79 Cliff St.   TO THAT GENTLE ONE, WHO HATH HTHERTO LED ME ON THROUGH LIFE, ITS SUNSHNE AND ITS SHADE, SO SAFELY, SO KINDLY, TEARFULLY, YET GRATEFULLY, I DEDICATE   THESE PAGES: WHOSE EYE LOOKED SO LOVINOLY ON ITS MERITS, SO FORGIVINGLY ON ITS FAULTS, BUT WHO PASSED TO THE SILENT LAND ERE THS LAST PAGE WAS WRITTEN.     PREFACE. As ONE often, in moments of leisure, groups together a few stray blocks, to amuse some young prattler, till, beguiled by the child's enthusiasm, a moment's -pastime becomes the labor of an hour, and the simple four-sided structure receives repeated ad- ditionst and an edifice is completed, possessing the merit of no architectural order: as the poor peasant rears his simple one- roomed cottage, and, as he becomes more prosperous or ambi- tious, adds other larger rooms, forming, when the last addition is finished, in the eye of a master-builder, an unsightly and un- symmetrical structure, unlike those loftier mansions planned by the skillful brain and reared by the affluent hand: so, to the critic's eye, this story may have no order of intellectual archi- tecture, and seem like an oddly contrived and illy constructed house, whose material is neither brick, wood, stone, or marble, but a motley combination of all these elements. An entrance to some plot without its accustomed vestibule, an image without its usua- drapery, a protracted continuation of some dull outline, or an abrupt termination of some brighter design may attract the critic's gaze or challenge his severe censure. In the great world of art, a rude cottage sometimes forms a   vi          PtREFACE. pleasant contrast to the stately mansions around it: so like some rustic cottage among the statelier palaces of the great thought- world, was this story framed; not to display any intricacy, mys- tery, or regularity of plot, but with the hope that to some tear- dimmed eye a few buds of beauty, a few green memories might spring up and twine around the Old West Room, and no aspho- del hide among their leaves. In the humblest home of many a toil-worn worker, Faith and Hope may scatter bright flowers, and Time plant unfading memo- rials; and where the weary lay them down to rest, angel foot- steps linger, radiant seraph wings fan the brow, and unseen companions are trooping around them. Hours spent with Olie have given me consolation in sorrow and cheer in loneliness. May some weary reader, as he lays it aside, work more bravely and rest more calmly; and let him wlo deems it full of faults, be animated to write a better.   CONTENTS. CHAPTER   I. PAGE OLIE .... . ................... ...... ......................... 1  CHAPTER   II. THEl DESERTION AND CONSOLATION--  UNCLE FRANK, OLIE AND BIRDIE" ...... ....,............. .....*....a......* 'v  23 CHAPTER mI. THE OLD  FARM-HOUSE--ITS ADORNMENTS AND DECORATIONS, "KEEPING-ROOM AND SKY-PARLOR" ........................ 28 CHAPTER   IV. BAKING-DAY--THE RIDE-BLACKBERRIES AND EVERLASTINGS.....  39 CHAPTER V. AUNT RACHEL'S PARLOR--RECEPTION-DAY-VISITORS AND SERE- NADES ....... .............. .... .................... 44 CHAPTER VI. OLIE'S NEW ACQUAINTANCE-THE PROMSED VISIT ..    ...  2 ...... 52^   viii         CON TE NTS.                I CHAPTER VTI.               I ,AGB FIBE IN THE SWAMP .. ........             58 CHAPTER VIII.  NEWS FOR RICHE  .............  ...,....  7 CHIAPTER IX.  CHTCHAT-A-UNCLE ISAAC'S FEARS .......................... 74 CHAPTER    X.              I UNCLE FRANK'S LETTER ..........................   10 MO]MLIB E  PEC E?  INTORGAN.-GRINDER ....... .. ... ...... 10 2 CHAPTER XI.                  E STER . 129 CHAPTER XII. CHAPTER XIV.   CONTENTS.             ix CHAPTER XV. P]AGB SHADOWS. GROW DARKER--OLIE A PILGRIM...... ..,.......... 134 CHAPTER XVI. THE NEW HOME--A FAMLIAR FACE...   ... .................. 16 1 CHAPTER XVII. COBWEBS AND DUST..... .. ............................ 160 CHAPTER XVIII. THE NEW TRIAL ........................................... 169 CHAPTER XIX. PROPESSIONAL CALLS....................................... 179 CHAPTER XX. TIDINGS FROM CLARA ....................... .......-.-.;.. 187 CHAPTER XXI. AIPEEP INTO PYNCHEON SQUARE ........ ....a.......... ..... 201 CHAPTER XXII. SATURDAY'S TRIBULATIONS ..................... .  .  , . 2" iI   X            O N T i N T S. CHAPTER   XXI IJ. PAGE "BOR!S FIRST FRUITS.  .................  .......... 221 CHAPTER   XXIV. ELLA'S TROUBLES .....  ..  ................e...o........ 225 CHAPTER XXV. TuE ADOPTED HOME.............................. * ........ 234 CHAPTER XXVI. SEWING SOCIETY IN ELMVILLE. ............. .,...... .  42 CHAPTER   2XVTI. WHAT CO0ES OF THNKING ALOUD .........................  252 CHAPTER XXVuL. UNOLE JOHN'S WEST ROOM ................................ 264 CHAPTER XXTx. AN ARRIVAL IN ELMVNILLE ............................... 274 CHAPTER X X X. COUSIN GEORGE. .....................          287   CONTENTS.             Xi CHAPTER xxfl. PAGB SARBATH AT UNWCE JOHNS ...........................    299 CHAPTER    XX XI I. BLIND NANCY .......................................... 306 CHAPTER XXXTT. TABLE-TAILK. AT MSS SCHOONMA,R'S .,..........  .  . 310 CHAPTER- XXXTV. JBLIND EYES OPENED .................. .        322 CHAPTER XXXV. THE "COUNTRY SCHOOLMSTRESS"AND HER PROTAA i........... 332 CHAPTER    X X V 1. MARY LEE'S EVENING OUT. .........................    331 CHAPTER    XX -Vll. Jua E 's  ' s,           a ........................................... 3t50 CHAPTER    XX VU11. A  NEW  FRIE D.............         . . ..................... 86. '   xii       CONTENTS. CHAPTER XXXIX. TE WEARY AT WORK ...........      .  . 64. h7EW-YEAR'S MORNWG  3   3.     393 CHAPTER XL. SOMET'NO NEW I MARY LEE'S LIE .......  378 CHAPTER XLH.        , E A  MOR IN E   E   .................... ... . 3i4  CHAPTER XLIV.     .. CIIAPTER XLV. ee  CHAPTER  XLVI.  CHAPTER XL ...........  CHAPTER XLIVI IM'CH ADO AT MS PYNDLEON ............... ..I *** - ***** - ........ ......... ..... 4/]    CONTENTS.             xlii CHAPTER XLVI. PAGB THE DOCTOR PUZZLED ................... ......  a........a 446 CHAPTER XLVH. CLARA'S BOOK.......................................    452 CH:APTER XLIX. A GLIMPSE OF CLARA'S HEART .............................. 458 CHAPTER L. OLD LETTERS-SLEEPING MEMORIES AWAKENED....   ........... 462 CHAPTER LI. T'HE WEDDING ..............   ................. ........... 467 CHAPTER LIL THE YOUNa HOUSEKEEPER ........ ......................... 473 CHAPTER, LII. THE WANDERF&R   RETURN.... ............................ 479 CHAPTER LIV. RETRIBUTION ................................. .......   488   xiv           CONTE NTS. CHAPTER LV. PAGE OLIE AT HOME AT LAST ..................................... 93 CHAPTER LVI. "ZZIE.. ....,.,.,,...............................   498 CHAPTER LVII. "OTTIE'S LETTER ..  ........................................ 506 CHAPTER LVIII. THE WEARY AT REST ..  .................................. 514   O L        IE. -- CHAPTER I. OLIE. "We canna get fortune, we canna get fame, We canna behind us a' leave a bit name; But this we can a' hae, and O 'tis na sma;, A heart fu' o' kindness, to ane and to a'!" GILFAN. "WHAT shall we do with Olie, father?" "Do with her! Why pack her up and take her along." "Take her along! Why we 'll have enough without her." "Oh, we can tuck her in somewhere; she's a little body, she won't take much room; give her plenty of dolls and baby. rags, and she 'll be happy as a kitten all day long." "Tuck her in! that would be quite easy if we could carry a trundle bed to- stow her away in at night, and a garret for' her daily performances in millinery, dress-making, etc.; as to rags, I suppose she 'd be supremely happy if we would take the old green bag which has hung for years in the attic store- room, for the reception of the rags of three generations. I caught her up there the other day, making sundry red, green, and blue depredations; she blushed and trembled as if she   16            OLIE. had been caught in some petty larceny; she 's the most per- severing little rag-picker I know of. All along on the garret floor she had little piles of different colors; carefully culled and arranged as if she kept a regular rag depot, where all do- nations are thankfully received. But, seriously, papa, you don't mean to take her along?  She's too young to be charmed with sunny France or blue skyed Italy. You can gratify all her ideas of felicity by leaving her at home." I' But where shall we leave her, Laura? Esther is too feeble to have any care of the child, and though she really is a re- markable little puss, she surely has n't dignity enough to con- trol herself entirely. Were she left with any amount of funds, she would probably invest them all in rags." "Why, we can leave her at Aunt Rachel's: she'd be well cared for there." "But Aunt Rachel may be called away at any time: Susan's health is so delicate-if she should die, they would need Aunt Rachel immediately: she would be the only resort." "But, papa, you know cousin William said the doctor has hopes of Susan's recovery now; and nothing but her death could induce Aunt Rachel to leave the old place. But if Susan should die before we return, she will probably linger some months yet; she has lived so long-and Olie might, for a few weeks, be placed at Miss Pyncheon's school; she's such a little rustic-polishing, considerable polishing would do her good." Mr. Brant was satisfied by long experience that every ob- jection he might raise would be disposed of by his persever- ing wife and daughter. He was naturally of a yielding dis-   OLIE.             17 position; so, as usual, he waived his preference in this in- stance; and Ohe was not included in their party. They were to leave home for Europe in about two weeks. Meantime, never was little maiden left more in "maiden meditation, fancy free," than Olie. She found time and means to dress up all her dolls in the latest style; imitating as closely as  she could Miss Laura's new dresses; "pinking out," as she called it, with her tiny scissors, the flounces on each lilipu- tian skirt. She always called Mr. Brant Uncle Frank; and as he was about to leave home soon, and her childish imagination could conceive of no clearer idea of death than going far away, so she had ripped up grandmother's old bombazine hat, which she found in an old closet in the garret, and carefully smooth- ing the pieces with her little iron, she had ingeniously and tastefully dressed her favorite doll, which she called Olie, in the deepest mourning. Charlie, the coachman, had given her the black band, which he had just taken from his old white hat, with which she had made a long and wide vail; thus, to her childish eye, perfectly completing the tout ensemble. This touching proof of Olie's grateful appreciation of his kindness, deeply affected Mr. Brant. He chanced to hear the servants talking about Olie's black doll, as they-called it, as he passed through the kitchen one day. Curiosity prompted him to examine the little artist's work, and he was surprised at the skill and taste displayed in the design and execution of dolly's wardrobe. A Catholic lady who had recently visited the family, wore a large, jet-rosary, which much attracted Olie's attention. With a few pence, which she had saved in her little purse, she had purchased   18            OLI E. some tiny, jet beads, and making a black paper-cross-she had quite a pretty little rosary for dolly's neck. Ohe was a great pet of Mr. Brant's; and he regretted leav- ing her, even in Aunt Rachel's careful hands. She had so twined and intertwined herself about his affections, it seemed like leaving part of his heart at home, to go without Olie. It would have better suited his quiet, home-loving tempera-' ment to remain with her, than join the party in their contem- plated tour. But he was not well, and his physician had so far frightened him as to induce him to seek for improved health in some milder clime. His ambitious wife and daughter eagerly im- proved this opportunity of gratifying their long-cherished de- sire of going to Europe; they had looked forward to it for years as something in the distance; but now they were really going--and going soon.  Mrs. Brant was a beautiful and ac- complished woman, brilliant, showy, and attractive. Olie's in- troduction into her household was quite an impromptu in the usual order of things-decidedly unique and outre it was in her estimation to adopt a nameless, homeless wanderer, and surround her with all the comforts and luxuries of the wealthy line of Brant. The innocence, freshness, and simplicity of a warm-hearted' child, found in her cold nature no kind response. She was too stately, too dignified, to bend caressingly over a little, laughing; loving creature. To clasp a bounding, clinging child to her heart might disturb the ever-present symmetry and repose resting in the silken folds of her elegant dress; the love of a little grateful heart could never atone for a wrinkled collar or displaced ringlet; and nothing could more effectually disturb   OLIE.            19 her equanimity than to find her elegantly-bound and carefully- dusted volumes, employed in the rearing of " cubby-houses." Once, and but once, was the quiet sanctity of her elegant apart- ments thus invaded. In the center of her elegant parlor, the best of localities in the estimation of the juvenile architect, was the edifice reared; " silently as a dream, the fabric rose," sur- rounded by a velvet garland of roses and wood-moss, each gilded apartment furnished with the costhest ornaments of the nearest etaaere. Hardly had the young enthusiast, with up- lifted, admiring hands pronounced the new creation good, when the indignant owner of the costly framework, chanced to pass the scene,- "Alas I 't was but a mortifying stroke Of undeserved severity" that prostrated the goodly structure, sooner than the frozen palace of the "imperial mistress of the fur-clad Russ van- ished 'neath the burning rays of the summer sun. This was Olie's first and crowning offense ; no constant ad- herence to propriety and sobriety, after that, was of any avail; she was in the eyes of the injured lady a mischief-maker and interloper. The worst thing Brant ever did, his wife would say, was to bring that child home. Yet it was one of the few things he would do; and when he was decided, mild as he seemed, even Mrs. Brant found it best not to oppose him; she only expostulated with him oc- casionally on the great impropriety of allowing a poor, orphan child so many liberties-it annoyed her extremely to hear the child call him Uncle Frank. Too well Mr. Brant knew that Olie would be treated with   20           O LIE. constant neglect were she allowed to accompany them on their anticipated journey; and this consideration, more than all the logic of the two ladies, induced him to give a reluctant con- sent to her remaining behind. Ohe had ever been shielded from unkindness and neglect by Mr. Brant's paternal tenderness. Any occasional reproof, though undeserved from Laura or her mother, were more than compensated by Uncle Frank's unfailing fondness. Many an hour in Uncle Frank's study were Milton and Thompson, Cowper and Young, Homer and Virgil, Johnson and Bacon, summoned from their dignified and classic repose on the library shelves, to contribute to the amusement of the restless, yet happy child. Olie, in piling up this classic lore with Uncle Frank's assisting hand, derived more pleasure from the living and the dead languages than many a taciturn bookworm, devoted to his literary idols, finds in his combined collection of the learning of ages and the wisdom of sages. Long years after the old library door was closed, its shutters fastened, poets, philosophers, historians, left to their undisturbed and dusty repose, did Olie look back to that charmed spot-linger on each kind word and gentle caress of Uncle Frank's with yearning, tearful delight. Hoarded up on the shelves of memory were those dear, old books; the covers bright, the gilding fiesh as the faces of those we love, though absent from our sight for years, (dwelling still in memory's land around "the hearthstone of the heart" ever young, and fresh, and bright:) and when childhood with its hopes and dreams was gone forever, the turrets of its airy castles grown dim in the receding past,-these books came   OLIE.             21 again-bearing a glad evangel-not strangers, but as old friends, beaming through familiar faces with well-remem- bered names, needing no introduction. Many were the loving words and kindly deeds with which Uncle Frank meant to soothe Olie's grief at parting; but very unexpectedly was he summoned from home, by a telegraphic dispatch, to the bedside of a dying brother. It was only a week previous to the day appointed for setting sail for Europe. He had only time the morning he left to kiss Olie good-by in her little bed. Poor child-she covered her face with the sheet, and wept her first bitter tears; there, for a long hour, she sobbed- sobbed at the departure of her only friend.       i Too busy were the Brants in expensive preparation for their journey, to notice the pale -face of the restless little creature as she went from room to room, bereft of the only friend she had in the lone, lone world. She wandered about for some time; then retreated to the little room in the attic, her play-room, where sundry dolls were arranged in various attitudes, just as she had left them the night before. She threw herself once more on her little bed with the only doll she valued now, the sably-dressed Olie, and cried herself to sleep. When she awoke, the broad sun was staring in upon her, and the sweet notes of a canary greeted her ear. Looking out of the window, she saw a beautiful cage, with a still more beautiful bird resting on a little perch within it. From the top of the cage hung a card with the words--"For Olie," written in large letters. Uncle Frank had printed them with his pen just as he had often printed little letters for her-   22            OLIE. How kind was dear Uncle Frank, to leave Olie something to love, thought she, as she stood looking at the bright plum- age of the pretty creature. "Dear little birdie, we will love each other always, won't we, birdie  You shan't go to Europe, shall you birdie?"   CHAPTER II. THE DESERTION AND CONSOLATION,   UNCLE FRANK! OLIE, AND' BIRDIE." "It was the carol of a bird; It ceased, and then it came again, The sweetest song ear ever heard. A lovely bird with golden wings, And song that said a thousand things, And seemed to say them all for me." BYaoN. OLIE had been in Mr. Brant's family about two years. Just two years before Mr. Brant sailed for Europe, he was summoned, one stormy evening, to the bedside of a dying friend. The messenger bade him hasten. In an old cottage far out of the city, in a miserably- furnished room, on a rough straw bed, a poor sufferer lay; mingling her moanings with the whistling night winds. She was beautiful even in death. She anxiously asked, just as Mr. Brant opened the door--"Is he come? I fear it will be too late."  "I am  here," said Mr. Brant, as he bent over the rough couch, and took the hand of the dying woman. A faint smile played upon her wan face as she recognized her early friend. "I knew you would come, Frank," said she--" though the night was dark and stormy--you promised me long years   24            OLIE. ago, that if ever you could do me a favor I might call upon you, and you would cheerfully gratify any wish of mine. "Since last we parted, the wealth which cost me so much sorrow, has been taken from me-I have nothing left but this dear child--who has been a solitary watcher by my bed for many lonely nights. Will you watch. over her, Frank, and sometimes when she is lonely and destitute, be her friend and protector                  --  "It was a sad mistake that parted us forever; but that is all over now. I have no more to do with life." "I will watch over her as well as I can, Olivia," said the grief-stricken man; " and when I am called away, and I think the time not very distant, I will leave her provided for." "God bless you, Frank; now I have no other earthly wish. May she be to you as she has been to me, a ray of sunshine in the darkest hour. But do not reveal to her her mother's history till she is old enough to profit by my sad experience." There was a sudden rattling in the throat, a few convul- sions, and it was all over; the weary spirit of Olivia, long tried, and heavy-laden, was at rest. From that scene Brant went forth a sadder, yet a better man. He had watched the last closing of eyes, that once, long years ago, beamed on him so lovingly, so fondly. He had listened for the last faint beating of a heart which, but for one sad misunderstanding, would have beat beside his own, till it had beat its last. He had, when the fervor of youthful feeling was over, after being repeatedly tempted by her artful fascinations, persever- ingly placed in his way, married the haughty Louisa, who   DESERTION   AND CONSO LATI'ON.       25 had long really loved the pensive high-souled Brant. Some- thing in his dark thoughtful eyes attracted her quick glance, and she resolved to win his heart, cost what it might. Perhaps her pride was piqued at first by his apparent in- difference to charms, to which all others freely acknowledged their allegiance. - From a spirit of all-absorbing coquetry, she first sought to win the admiration of the taciturn Brant; but as his inner nature gradually unfolded itself to her eyes, the mystery and the purity of his noble spirit charmed her by its very contrast to her own. Not easily was he won; the proud Louisa showed herself a willing captive, ere he sought her hand; first frankly allowing that in other, earlier years, a more en- thusiastic love had chained his heart. They were married, and "all went merry as a marriage bell;" but Cupid's silken fetters could never bind Louisa's haughty spirit, which had never been to kindness strung. An only child, a belle, a star in the circles of fashion, she had never owned submission to aught human or divine, till Brant crossed her path. She loved him as much as a selfish being could love. She was proud of his beauty, dignified bearing, and great literary reputation; but she had no place in her heart for the little orphan; and when she saw her husband gaze so fondly and sadly into the bright large intelligent eyes of the child, she wished Ohe had found some other and far distant home; and then the thought of the little stranger's receiving any portion of that estate which was the envy of many around her, was to her a most unwelcome one. Louisa would never deliberately harm a single living thnug; but jealousy reigned in her heart, and she bore tho 2   26            OLI E. child no love. To her there was a fascination in the style and brilliance of city life. Sparkling with jewels, and mag- nificently dressed, she longed to be the queen of every fes- tivity, the star in the galaxy of fashion. Not so with Brant; he preferred quiet, retirement, books, and flowers; and so did Olie. For hours together, they would wander off, loving nature's music more than the heart- less bustle of busy fashionable life. Louisa was delighted with the idea of going to Europe. She liked the notoriety that her beauty and accomplishments might thus afford her. She would shine abroad as she had shone at home. But Brant went as a last resort; it might save him from weary hours of pain, and protract for years his life. Yet Uncle Frank and Olie should never have been sepa- rated. With wondrous sagacity could the child read every emotion playing on Uncle Brant's features. She would climb up on his knees and sing, with witching sweetness, his sadness all away, twine her slender fingers in his raven hair, prema- turely sprinkled with gray, clasp her tiny arms closely round his neck, and wile away many a moody moment. She had found that all save him were too much absorbed in their own interests to care for her; and she had closed tight to all others her little heart; but the least expression of his wishes would bring her to his side in a moment. But he was gone too suddenly to express many words of parting, overwhelmed as he was with grief at the loss of his only brother. Until quite recently, Ohe had cherished the idea that she was not to be left, but slowly and sadly came the feeling that   OLI3E AND BIRDIE.           27    ) she would be all alone, and her childish imagination could conceive of no good reason for this desertion. Mr. Brant knew, though he told no one, that he must soon after his arrival in Europe, submit to a painful operation, which might deprive him early of his life; but he kept the secret to himself. "f Well, that child will be off our hands for a time, at least," said Mrs. Brant to Laura, quite late that night, before retiring. "I never could see why Frank took such a fancy to her. We 'lll send her off in the morning,-the stage goes early-she won't need any breakfast if she has plenty of crackers-it gives a child too much consequence to be always waiting on them. H suppose there 'd be a scene if Frank were here. I should n't be surprised if he carried'her in his arms all the way there. I found in his drawer one day a miniature of a face just like Olie's, only it was an older face. I found it since he left--'t is strange I 've not seen it before." "Yes, he has an infatuated fondness for the child," said Laura, "I am glad she is going-I was determined she should be away awhile at least. I don't care if I never see that little face again." Poor Olie knew Uncle Frank had not quite forgotten her, when she heard the little songster carolling in his new home. "Dear birdie, I will hang your dear little cage up in my heart, and every night I will pray God bless Uncle Frank, Olie and birdie."   CHAPTER III. TIE OLD FARM-HOUSE--ITS ADORNMENTS AND DECORATIONS-- It KEEPING-ROOM AND SKY-PARLOR. A hand laid softly on the head, When nestled in its cradle bed, A loving kiss, a kind good-night, And childhood's dreams are robed in light. THE parting between Olie and Mrs. Brant was not very long or affecting-a slightly perceptible touch of the hand, a cold ("Be a good girl, Olie"-and the poor child and her bird were on their way to the unknown Aunt Rachel's. For long hours the stage hurried on its rough way over the hilly, dusty road. Tired and hungry, Ohe was fast asleep only a few minutes before reaching her destination. The driver seemed sorry for the little lone child; so he tapped her on the shoulder, gently saying, "Wake up, child, here's Aunt Rachel's." It took scarce a moment to land Olie and her bird in Aunt Rachel's sitting-room, into which, without much ceremony, the front door opened. How old every thing looked to Olie's surprised glance! the bed in the corner looked old, the table looked older still, the chairs kept their seats tremblingly, an old gray cat            THE OLD, FAR-M-HOUSE.         29 purred in the corner, and an old brown dog stood by the door. Ohe had read in her little geography about the old worla. and she thought she must have got m t now, It seemed , odd to her to have a bed, a bureau, table, chairs. books. dog, and cat, all grouped togethe- mn such miscellaneous arrange- ment; while the chickens walked leisurely in an out of the door. There was a little looking-glass in the corner, with a piece of a comb and a part of a brush on a small shelf beneath it, close by which hung an old tin wash-basin and a towel. On one end of the shelf were Uncle Isaac's shaving- tools, which, once a week, were put in active operation. The pictures on the wall, of gentlemen in red making love to ladies in green, seemed to attract Olie's curious gaze. Then there was a blue-eyed, red-cheeked, long-curled damsel in a white vail, leaning gracefully over a bunch of red roses standing up in the air; so Olie thought, for she looked in vain for a bouquet-holder, or a little pot for them to grow in, or some place where they might have taken root. She looked for some time, until she made up her mind that their stems or roots were hid somewhere behind the frame. A tear stood on one of the maiden's cheeks, and Olie wondered how one tear could keep still so long. Wreaths of flowers were on her neck and wrists. Olie wondered if she had been crying because her uncle had gone to Europe. Under the picture was the word Caroline; and Ohe was very anxious to know what her other name was. Then Caroline seemed resting on the air. Olie thought it very funny that the grass in the picture should grow up so high, way up to Caroline's head.               ;   30            OLIE. On the other side of the room   hung a picture of the prodiga[ son. Both fathter and son were arrayed in closely- fitting tasmonabie dress coats of modern style, in which were onsplcuousvs dismavea tneir ruffled shirt-bosoms. Olie won- derea waethler Unie Frank's tailor made their clothes, and if prodigal meant nric.  Uncle Frank was rich, and he wore Just such a coal. These thoughts passed through Olie's mind in quick succession, as her eye glanced on the rough. ceiling, the old paper, the oddly-striped carpet, the bed-spread, adorned with sundry red and white patches, grouped together in imitation of the "rising sun," the red rays diverging in very decided points around a white circular nucleus, the bean-vines climbing over the side-window, the corn-stalks keeping their irregular perpendicularity before the two little windows in front, which looked out on a faded potato-patch just ripe for the hand of the digger. There stood Olie, on the little low door-sill, holding the bird-cage tight in her hand, as if the title to this, her only real estate, might be contested. Charlie, the coachman, had been so kind to her, he was the only one who had given her flowers, save dear Uncle Frank, and he too had taught her how to feed her bird; so after being sometime puzzled about its name, she sprinkled water on its little head, and called it Charlie-just as she had seen little infants baptized in church. Ohe had seen pictures, in Mrs. Brant's magazines, of beau- tiful country residences, capacious mansions surrounded with trees, winding avenues, and wide-spread lawns, adorned with miniature lakes and sparkling fountains. These rural scenes   ADORNMENTS AND D E,COR O   ATI 'O N S.  31 enchanted her childish eye. She admired the pictures so much, that she looked in Uncle Frank's big booktionary, as she called it; oand found that rural meant belonging to  the country; and with her childish logic, she concluded that Aunt Rachel's must be a delightful rural spot-because it was way out in the country, so Charhe said, and Charlie knew the country all around, for, he had been many times from Uncle Frank's to Aunt Rachel's, and two miles beyond, to the large watering-troughl under the big elm-tree. Aunt Rachel's door was always open, in pleasant weather, for the reception of visitors, as well as the fresh air, of which she was a most strenuous advocate, much to Uncle Isaac's annoyance; he was always afraid of a draft; being so much "troubled with the rhumatis," but the morning of Olie's arrival, he had gone to the village to get his wagon fixed, so Aunt Rachel had opened all the windows and doors, and gone down the hill, to the spring, after water. Looking in vain for a bell to pull, and seeing no one within, Ohe had finally summoned courage to walk in and seat herself on a bench in the corner, where she found time to look about her before Aunt Rachel came in. Aunt Rachel's sitting-room opened into the parlor or "keeping-room," as she called it-the three windows were protected from the sun by paper curtains, in imitation of shades, adorned with groups of bright-colored flowers, roses tulips, and lilies, the lilies and roses bearing a strong resem- blance to each other; being both of a deep azure hue. The carpet was one of Aunt Rachel's own manufacture; alternate shades of red and blue formed the narrow stripes, brown with orange edge, and white with black centers, like   32            OLIE. broad belts, diversified its smooth surface. Well-pol;shed brown wooden chairs whose seats were striped with green, and a lounge with high straight back covered with blue, and brown curtain calico graced the sides of the room; a small white spread was stretched to its utmost extension to hide the ungraceful legs of the antiquated table which stood between the windows. Piled up on the table, in one corner, were several old mag- azines, a volume of Captain Kidd's renowned adventures, and a time-worn and much-soiled card-basket, with wreaths of flowers gracing its several points, and heavily laden with very pic- turesque-looking cards--left there by all Aunt Rachel's and her daughter Sally's kinsfolk and acquaintance, carefully pre- served from  time immemorial.  Many of the cards were adorned with birds and birds'-nests, roses and rosebuds, and a variety of quaint devices displaying the taste of the original owner, whose name was sometimes written within a flowery scroll-with sundry elaborate flourishes. An old china tea-pot long since deprived of its handle, and filled with artificial flowers, whose bloom once vied with some maiden's cheeks, in a new straw bonnet; now conspicuously displayed  in contrast with bright sprigs of sumac and bunches of peacock's feathers formed the center-piece. Over it was suspended a cracked looking-glass, making the phiz and whole dimensions of each gazer twice their usual lati- tude; the frame was of cherry, and its top was adorned by a gilt eagle, with wide-spread wings; behind it were kept letters from different absentee members of the family; they had been preserved for years as precious documents by Aunt Rachel; some carefully tucked in the several corners of the frame.   "E E?I N G-ROO M."        33 Over the eagle to protect the glass from any encroachment of flies, were large branches of asparagus. Over the mantle- piece was a picture of a monument, surrounded by willow- trees and bearing the names of Aunt Rachel's lost children; with a record of their birth and deaths. Ohe had a great passion for pictures, and a very quick ob- serving eye; so during the few moments she was left alone on the little bench in the corner; she had become quite familiar with nearly every article of furniture in Aunt Rachel's two best rooms.  She had made friends with   Tabby, Aunt Rachel's yellow cat, (so Olie called it)-her complexion was of so peculiar a cast it would have been difficult for an older head to decide to which of the rainbow hues it belonged. Tabby had stretched herself to her utmost dimensions, pricked up her ears, opened her eyes wide, as if to question Olie's right to the premises; and becoming aware that the child was -no intruder, and had no hostile intentions, her temporary ex- citement had subsided, and crouching herself at Olie's feet with a very good grace she had submitted to Olie's gentle caresses; showing her kind feelings to the new-comer by sundry complacent purrings. Pussy had so far improved her acquaintance with Olie as to have sprung up in her lap, when Aunt Rachel made her ap- pearance with a large brown pitcher, which she placed on the table. She was the personification of neatness and good- humor, as Olie looked timidly up into her face, she was soon quite sure that she had nothing to fear; her childish sagacity I was convinced that she was not at all like Aunt Brant, as she had sometimes dared to call the haughty Louisa. 'On her broad, open countenance, the weary traveler, and old friends 2*   34           OLIE. alike, might read a cordial welcome; the sweetest milk, the whitest bread, newest butter, were at their service. She would leave her work-the work of a large family, which she per- formed all herself--to go out into the woods for berries for their gratification. She was one of those rare kind of people who are always well, who have no frequent ache or occasional pain of which to complain. In a hard shower she would walk around bareheaded all over her large garden, examining the progress of her water-melons. Catching cold was an evil that never entered into her category of borrowed troubles. She had no dread of contact with the elements. The stronger the wind the better she liked it. She could sit in her door and get a cooling off. The hot sun was welcome, it was so good for drying clothes; she never feared the deepening of the native brown of her countenance. Her large gray eyes were always strong, and whoever had a rent in her garment, or a patch to be fastened, was always sure of Aunt Rachel's ready assistance. She kept a large basket filled with various colored pieces of cloth, and her skill- ful hands would make wonderful transformation in Uncle Isaac's old coats and pants; modeling them over so they would fit nicely some poor orphan child in the neighborhood. People thought Aunt Rachel could do every thing. It was aston- ishing to see how much she would accomplish in one day. She was kind to every thing living about her, lame chickens, feeble lambs, 'her dog and cat, all received the best of care.  She was kind to all, but. she had a strange, strong love for children. She had lost some years ago a bright-cyed little girl, about Olie's size; she never could refer to her death without tears. She carefully kept a little ringlet of her hair,   thl? shoes she wore, the doll she played with; and she gave Olhe a most cordial greeting, and thought as she clasped the little stranger in her arms, that she might take the place of her lost, loved one. Little Matie was a remarkable child, her death almost broke Aunt Rachel's heart.  Death is cruel, the grave is cruel, I never knew how cruel it was till Matie died;" she would say, "every thing mourned-the flowers hung their heads, and the sun went down more soberly." Olie's clothes were soon put up nicely in a corner of Aunt Rachel's big drawer, her hat laid away in the little bandbox up stairs that used to be Matie's, and when Uncle Isaac came home, though he said he was " clear tuckered out;" he fixed a nice place in the sitting-room to hang up Charlie's cage. Aunt Rachel (as every body called her), when a girl, lived with Mr. Brant's mother. She had brought her up, and when she became a woman, she was for some years old Mrs. Brant's housekeeper. She had more privileges than an ordinary serv- ant, and was much respected by all Mrs. Brant's family, by none more than Frank, who was always very kind to her. Mr. Isaac Shaw was a very steady, sedate bachelor, a re- spectable farmer, " well to do, and quite forehanded," so Aunt Betsey told Aunt Rachel. Aunt Betsey was Aunt Rachel's nearest neighbor, and people said she made the match, . Mr, Shaw was a cousin of hers; nobody thought him matrimonial- ly inclined, till they saw him ' fixed up" in his blue coat and bright brass buttons, and calling on Miss Rachel Moore. Uncle Isaac was very tall and very slim, his features were long and rather sharp, there was a great contrast in the per- sonal appearance of himself and his good wife. When a mere   36           OLIE. child he had, while playing with some boys on the ice, cut his left cheek. The wound was very painful at the time, and had left quite a large scar, which was often very conspicuous. He was a kind husband, but a very quiet sort of man, seldom entering into a long conversation with any one, though when he did speak, Aunt Betsey said you might be sure of something dry. Aunt Rachel was a great talker, and uncle Isaac would often joke her about her talking propensity. He said she kept up a steady stream--so he could n't get a word in edgeways, she put them all in lengthways. He took great pride in his horses and wagons, and he liked to drive the best team in the neighborhood. Aunt Rachel said he cared more about his barn than he did for his house. He had a new barn, with nice bedrooms, as Olie called them, for his horses, and Aunt Rachel thought it too bad that the barn doors should have such nice locks and latches, while the fastenings on the old house were all out of order. In some little things Aunt Rachel could n't make Uncle Isaac think as she did, but in the main they agreed very well. Olie found a very comfortable home with them. She had a nice little bedroom, with a chair and old-fashioned stand in it; there was a little bed in the corner, and white curtains around it, trimmed with fringe of Aunt Rachel's own manu- facture; the morning-glory and flowering-beans mingled their purple and crimson beauties, twining and intertwining up the sides and across the little window, over which hung a curtain of spotless white, with heavy open fringe. Aunt Rachel called it her "sky-parlor:" there little Matie spent many happy hours, and there in a little corner under the sloping   SKY-PARLOR.           37 roof, Where Olie could just stand without hitting her head, she had her baby-house, where she took much pride in dis- playing her numerous dolls to great advantage. Little Matie's doll, which was ingeniously made of rags, pleased Olie very Imuch, more than all her city dolls, as Aunt Rachel called them; she could bend it, and make it sit down or stand up as she pleased. She had Aunt Betsey's " cricket" for her little table, on which were a set of cups and saucers, made of acorns. Uncle Isaac brought them home for her one night. Olie felt very lonely when she first stood on Aunt Rachers doorsill-no human being in sight; every thing around her so new and strange, so unlike uncle Frank's beautiful home in the city-she felt deserted and homesick. Her little heart beat fast, her cheeks were flushed after her long tiresome ride over the dusty road, the loud voice of the stage-driver had awakened her from a beautiful dream, she was at home again with uncle Frank; her eyes had that dewy sweetness about them young eyes will wear when the vail of repose is sud- denly torn aside, her lips were just parted as if in wonder and sorrow. The fountain of tears seemed upwelling as she clung to her little cage, and Charlie her only near yet help- less friend. But God had " tempered the wind to the shorn lamb." Aunt Rachel's kindness, her willingness to show her the use of every strange thing about her, her affectionate caresses, her attempts to divert her mind from the home where she had lived so long with uncle Frank, made Olie's first day pass quite pleasantly. She knelt down 'by her little bed that night to thank her Father in heaven for the new home she had found. She   38           OLIE. knew very little about prayer, but her mother had taught her, when a very little child, to fold her hands and say, "Our Father who art in heaven;" and she had a feeling in her heart that some friend unseen had guided her on her journey, and given her a new temporary home. A tear stood in her eye as she thought of uncle Frank's; but when Aunt Rachel kissed her good-night, a smile lingered on her lips. Aunt Rachel passed a few moments behind the bed-cur- tains, till she heard the gentle breathing of the weary child; she was fast asleep. "How like she is to Matie," thought she, as she drew aside the curtain once more, and looked in on the fair brow and cherry lips of the young sleeper; where, in seeming contest on the innocent face, still lingered the tear and smile. "Is my lost darling come back' again?" said she, as she buried her face in the curtains, and wept a long, long time, until she heard uncle Isaac calling her to come and milk.   CHAPTER IV. ,BAETNG-DAY-THE RIDE-BLACKBERRIES AND EVERLASTINGS. Nice bread, rich cakes, in: well-flled rows Did Rachel's oven cleaned, disclose; Such juicy tarts, such brittle paste Would tempt the most fastidious taste. IT was Aunt Rachel's baking-day. She was up "bright and early," stirring round the house with all her native energy. She had milked the cows, made the fire, and got breakfast ready before lazy folks had time to open their eyes. The wood was laid in the big oven all ready to kindle, and a large quantity of flour sifted preparatory to commencing baking operations after breakfast. Uncle Isaac had his horse harnessed to go to the village. Aunt Rachel was very anxious to hear from Susan, her only living daughter, who was in very delicate health; and as this was the day the western mail was to come in, she soon ex- pected a letter from Ithaca. So she had persuaded Isaac to get the horse ready, so as to be able to start right away after breakfast. Aunt Betsey saw the horse and wagon before the door, so she thought Uncle Isaac must be going to the village. Shb put on her old blue sun-bonnet, which had a big hole in the   40           OLIE. crown--Olie called it a window--and came in to see if Uncle Isaac would n't stop in at Mr. Williams', and buy her a cod- fish, the largest one he could find. Mr. Williams had prom- ised to have some in this week. She 'd like to have him stop at Mrs. Page's, the milliner, and see if she had put the lining in her bonnet, she had had black lining and strings put in her old brown bonnet, as she had just lost a brother-in-law, and she felt as if she must put on some mourning. After breakfast, Uncle Isaac told Olie to put on her things and jump in, and go along. It was quite a cool morning, so he had on his great overcoat, and sat in the wagon holding his riding-whip, waiting for Olie's appearance. Ohe was soon equipped and stowed away in the big wagon; Uncle Isaac holding her close under his arm, and wrapping part of his great-coat around her; he was so afraid she would take cold, the mountain winds were so raw; and she looked as if the wind might blow her over. When they got opposite the school-house, the teacher came out and asked Uncle Isaac if he could take two letters to the office for her. Telling Olie to "hold on" to them, he drove along quite fast, until he came to the watering trough under the big oak- tree. While he watered the horse he let Olie hold the reins, tell- ing her not to let Dick run away. Ohe was much delighted with her responsible position, and when Uncle Isaac took his seat again, he let her drive on until they came to a very rough part of the road. After go- ing some time over the stones, Dick began to limp a little, this excited Olie's sympathy, and she was quite uneasy, till   BLACKBERRIES AND EVERI ASTINGS,        41 Uncle Isaac examined the foot, and finding a stone in his shoe, he borrowed a hammer in a house near, and let Olie walk about on the sides of the road, while he was trying to -remove the troublesome stone. Olie found some beautiful blackberries, which she put in the largest oak-leaf she could reach: the branches of one very large tree hung so low that her tiny arms could just reach up to the lowest leaves. She was delighted with some rich clusters of white flowers, which grew by the road-side. Uncle Isaac told her they were "Iife everlastings ;" so she gathered quite a large bunch of th6m to put in the little pitcher on the table in her room, and to hang over Charlie's cage: Olie thought they would please Charlie; she would say sometimes she was sure Charhe had thought, for he always looked glad to see her when she came home, and would jump about so pleased when she called him by name. They stopped again at an old saw-mill; and Uncle Isaac showed Olie how they cut the large logs, and how they made the big wheels go. They did not stop again till they reached the village. Uncle Isaac tied the horse fast, took Olie into Mr. Williams', got the codfish for Aunt Betsey, mailed the teacher's letter, purchased a hame-collar for his horse, went into Mrs. Page's for Aunt Betsey's bonnet, and was soon on his way home, after stopping a few moments at the black- smith's with Olie, to show her how they blew the big bellows and made such a blazing fire. While Uncle Isaac was putting his horse in the barn, Olie ran into the kitchen with joyous step to show Aunt'Rachel her treasures; "Oh, I have had such a nice ride," said Olie,   42            O LIE. holding up both hands, " only see what I have got!"Olie had seen berries before, but only in baskets which boys bring around in cities; and she was quite surprised to find them growing on bushes. "Lay the flowers on the table, and I will fix them for you by-and-by," said Aunt Rachel, "and come and see what I am  doing." Aunt Rachel was just getting her pies ready for the oven. She told Olie "she would make her a nice little turn-over with her blackberries." "A turn-over! what is a turn-over ." said Olie, wondering what kind of a revolution could be made out of blackberries. "Why a turn-over is a little pie," said Aunt Rachel. "A little pie all for myself?" said Olie. "Yes," said Aunt Ra- chel, " and I 'll give you a patty-pan, and you can make a little cake too, and here is some dried berries you may put in it for raisins-you can have dough out of my cake." Olie clapped her hands in great glee, she was to have a % cake and pie all her own; and the best of it was, the cake  v was to be of her own manufacture, and in a patty-pan too; she wondered what a patty-pan was. Olie sprinkled the berries in her little cake very carefully, Aunt Rachel gave her the little pan quite full of dough; she put in an extra quantity of nutmeg and cinnamon too. It was laid in the front of the oven where it could be easily taken out. Olie kept running up to the oven-door every few minutes trying to peep in to see if it was done, occasionally asking Aunt Rachel if it was n't time to take it out. Ohe was quite happy; all sad thoughts just then were out of her mind, her cheeks were flushed with the excitement of her ride, then she had two invaluable treasures in the oven; how she wished she could show them to Uncle Frank. Olie felt   B   AKIN G-D AY.       43 quite rich-poor child! little did she think of the time not far distant when she would feel so very poor, when it would take so-much to make her happy, and that much apparently hopelessly beyond her reach. There might be a time coming when an old fashioned brick oven could not contain!the treasures she coveted, and that heart would go out into the big world and long for something which Aunt Rachel's kind hands could never give. Olie's ride, and the baking with Aunt Rachel, gave her such an unusual appetite at dinner that she thought Aunt' Rachel's "pop robin" better than any thing she had ever eaten; almost as good as the ice-cream Uncle Frank used to get for her when he took her out to walk afternoons in Broad- way. As Aunt Rachel hung the everlasting over Charlie's cage, how gladly in the kindness of her benevolent heart would she have made the flowers of peace and happiness spring up, ever-- lasting in Olie's life.   CHAPTER V. AUNT RACHEL'S PARLOR-R1ECEPTION-DAY-VISITORS--.SERE- NADES. No shining lamps adorned its walls, Or windows decked with 'broideries fine; But shaded sunlight softly falls Through waving green and flow'ring vine. TUESDAY morning came. After breakfast Aunt Rachel asked Olie to go with her into the parlor. Olie knew Aunt Brant's reception-day was Tuesday, and then she was dressed more elegantly than usual, and expected to be in her parlor for the reception of calls from her numer- ous friends. But Aunt Rachel was not at all fixed up. Olie thought her sleeves were rolled up higher than usual; she had on a big blue checked apron, and a brown sun-bonnet, and a faded calico short-gown; and then it seemed so funny to wear a bonnet in one's own parlor; Aunt Brant always wore a beauti- ful cap or a tasty head-dress. But where could Aunt Rachel's parlor be? Olie thought she had been all over the house in every nook and corner; and so she had, and through the cellar too; Uncle Isaac said she was Ad all over every where;"Aunt Rachel let her go just where   AUNT RACHaEL,:S PARLOR.         45 she pleased, and she seemed to have a real genius for making explorations. Uncle Isaac said she was a regular flutter-budget, he could not turn around any where, without seeing her bright eyes. Uncle Isaac was n't very choice in the selection of his words; he had n't attained his education in the school of Johnson or Webster, and Aunt Rachel said he did n't talk as well as he knew how; for he had had pretty good learning in his days, and his eldest brother was a school teacher once. Aunt Betsey said, and Aunt Betsey liked him too, that he was " the curiousest old-fashionest man" she ever saw, and " if his brother Sam did die of the potermania, he warn't to blame for that; his father was a proper, nice man, there warn't a better man in all Connecticut State." Olie did n't care what Uncle, Isaac called her, so long as he was so kind to her, and was so patient in showing her every thing about the farm, and telling her the name of every thing, but then she would have liked him just as well if he would n't rub his great rough face against her delicate cheek so often, Olie stood a moment wondering where   Aunt Rachel's parlor was. Aunt Rachel went to the closet and brought out a large, coarse, crash-towel, and telling Olie to come with her, went out of the back-door into the large yard. There, under the shade of two large, wide-spreading apple-trees, was a little brown house of that indescribable shade which no. painter's hand hath known. To Aunt Rachel it was a de- lightful spot. There she spent some pleasant hours, hours happier than many passed in elegant mansions in the great city. She called it her parlor; and it went by the name of   "           OLtI. Aunt Rachel's parlor. The furniture was always kept highly polished, and free from dust. The windows on each side were shaded, and the parlor kept cool and pleasant by the emerald drapery of the apple-tree's waving boughs; more beautiful and more appropriate, Aunt Rachel thought, than the costhest gossamer fabric looped up with golden bands. Aunt Rachel often had sweet music floating on the air in her parlor, choice serenades, sometimes duets, and the an- thems taught by the grandest master, the best in the wide world; and performed by the delicate throat of the robin, woodpecker, and blue-jay. Sometimes in the cool of the evening you might hear the whippowil's solo, while blackbird and wren joined in the chorus singing their vesper hymn; the bees near the window were humming some sort of a tune all day long in the bright face of the sunflower, or soaring with higher strains near some regal prince's-feather; hovering round a delicate ladies'- slipper or bachelor's-button; murmuring gently in the ear of some mourning-bride or handsome sweet-William; kissing the sweetness from some modest violet's honied lips, or drink- ing the nectar from some lily's cup; or curiously peering within the folds of the mysterious monk's-hood. Aunt Rachel never paid these musicians, perhaps she was a favorite of theirs; and many a concert they gave for her benefit, but then they had the boughs of her trees, and the cups of her flowers rent-free. As for visitors, Aunt Rachel had a great variety. The squirrel would rustle quickly by, only deigning to look in; in- deed, like some fashionable ladies, he was quite as apt to call   AUNT RACHELI    PARLO   K.     47, when Aunt Rachel was not at home.    The more familiar chicken would often pass quite over the sill. Tabby would linger long within the threshold, though she was generally an uninvited guest; and Driver, the big Maltese-Scotch dog, was always there on Aunt Rachel's reception-days; she could n't do without him-and with him she kept her polished furni- ture always in use, yet always in order. Aunt Rachel was not literary; so the numerous capacious shelves in her parlor were not ornamented with bright ideas carefully preserved in elegantly-bound volumes, but covered with large bright tin milk-pans filled with the richest milk; Aunt Rachel's productions were what can't be said of all authors', rich, clear, smooth, neat, and often flowing, but they were always practical and useful, besides being sweet and agreeable. There was no bell or knocker on the door, nothing but a rustle wooden latch, allowing free admission at all hours to every member of the family save Tabby, who was never left there alone, being known to have certain pilfering propensi- ties, having slyly committed several times some petty larce- nlies in Aunt Rachel's parlor; once taking part of the labor herself by skimming off the contents of some of the bright pans on the lower shelves. Uncle Isaac had told Olie that Aunt Rachel had a piano for the dog to play on, and she wondered what kind of an in- strument it could be, till she saw Driver walking up very fast a queer-looking little ladder which went round and round, and Driver never got quite to the top of it, though he walked all the time very fast; then she saw that when Driver walked fast, a long stick went up and down in a barrel.   48           OLIE. Olie thought uncle Isaac had been " making believe" when aunt Rachel told her the dog was not making music but butter. Aunt Rachel let her take hold of the dash, and try to move it up and down, when the dog stopped; she was delighted with the noise she could make; how much she wanted to tell uncle Frank about the dog making butter. All the pay Driver got for his morning's work was a large pail of buttermilk. Olie frequently went in Aunt Rachel's parlor after that, and often she wished she could grow a big girl and help make butter and cheese. Late in the afternoon, Aunt Rachel sat in the big rickety chair in the kitchen corner, darning sundry delapidated stockings, stopping occasionally to stir some apple sauce, which was boiling over the fire. Olie sat watching the needle as it went backward and for- ward, making little bridges with the blue and white yarn, until she began to be quite sleepy. Her eyelids drooped, and her head nodded gently with the slow motion of the needle. "Wouldn't you like to go out and play in the yard awhile?" said Aunt Rachel. "It is dull in here; it will do you good to stir about a little." Olie put on her bonnet and went out; first she walked around in all the little paths which uncle Isaac had made in the garden, and then seeing a squir- rel in one of the apple-trees in the yard, she went softly out hoping that she might get quite close to it, and see its little bright eyes. The tree wRas quite near Aunt Rachel's parlor, but the   VISITORS.           49 squirrel was too quick; it was gone before Ohe had time to reach it; so she walked around under the other trees, hoping to see more squirrels. There were some stones piled up for a seat close by Aunt Betsey's fence, over which hung a large apple-tree, laden with beautiful red apples. Olie sat down on the stone under the tree, to watch for more squirrels; she sat a few moments, when down came a large ripe apple, with beautiful smooth red cheeks, Olie thought as she picked it up- "-Hold your apron, little girl," said a sweet, shrill voice "and I 'll give you some more." Olie looked up, and saw a boy a little larger than herself, with thick curly hair and dark eyes, coming down the tree with a basketful of apples. She spread out her apron, and he filled it with the tempting fruit. "Thank  you, thank you," said Olie; "I'll go and show them to Aunt Rachel." "Wait a moment," said the boy. I 'll take these in the house, and then I'llget you a basket to put them in. I 've got a nice little basket of my own, with covers on; you may take that." The boy came running out soon with a very pretty basket, which he filled with Olie's apples. "Are these your apples?" said Olie. "No, but they are Aunt Betsey's, and I can have jut as many as I like. Do you live with Aunt Rachel!" "Yes, I live with her now." "Is she your aunt X?" 3!   50           OLIE. "I don't know," said Olie; "I guess not, though uncle Frank called her Aunt Rachel." "Who is uncle Frank " said the boy. "Uncle Frank! Oh he is the nicest man you ever saw! He used to talk with me, and walk with me, and give me flowers and playthings too." "Where does he live?" said the boy. "He does n't live any where now," said Olie; " he 's gone to Europe." "My uncle went to Europe once," said the boy. "He brought back ever so many books and nice things." "Have you got an uncle ." said Olie;" what makes you live with Aunt Betsey?" "Because I was very sick in New York, and father wanted me to come out here and get fat and strong. My uncle told him I could n't get well in .New York; and he ought to know, for he is a doctor; so I have been here a good many weeks. I am out doors most all day long; Aunt Betsey says it is the best thing I can do." "Don't you get tired being out doors all day ." said Olie. "Oh, no! I can help the men on the farm, and then I can make garden. Would n't you like to see my garden? I have a little garden all my own." Olie followed the boy through the long yard into a little corner just behind the wagon-house; where was a little plot of ground, nicely laid out; half of it was full of vegetables, and the other half was laid out for flowers. "I planted some flower-seeds this morning," said the boy, "and when they come up they 'll come up just in the shape of my name, Aunt Betsey says; she taught me how to make   GARDENING.            51 the letters. I have some more seeds in my pocket, and I can plant your name here in' the corner by mine, if you will tell me what it is; my name is Richard." "And my name is Olie," said she, stooping down to see Richard scatter the seeds. "Now we 'll put sticks in," said Richard, "and see which name will grow the fastest. We 'll pour some water on the ground to-night, and that will make the seeds shoot fast. I 've got a little watering-pot father gave me; you can take it a little while, if you like." "But I have n't got any garden," said Olie, "Uncle Isaac don't have time to plant flowers." "I 'll give you some roots," said Richard, " and I 'll make you a garden close by mine, just on the other side of the fence; I 've got plenty of seeds too." "Where did you get so many seeds, Richard?" "Oh, father. sent them to me in a little box; mother saved them last year. Have you got a mother, Olie?" "No, Uncle Frank says my mother died a good while ago." "Does you fatherlive in New York, too, Olie ." said Richard. "My father went away off ever so many years ago, and he never came back again," said Olie. Just then Olie heard Aunt Rachel's voice calling her to come to tea; so she caught up-her basket, saying she must go. "Let- me carry your basket for you, Olie," said Richard, "it is quite heavy." So he carried the basket quite to Aunt Rachel's and set it down on the door-step, and saying, ' Good-night, Olie," ran singing off.   CHAPTER VI. OLIE S NEW ACQUAINTANCE-THE PROMSED- VISIT. Those who chance sometimes to see us, Coloring give to all our life- Little words and looks that please us Are with years of gladness rife. THE next morning after Ohe had fed Charlie, she sat down on front door-sill, looking up and down the road watching the few wagons that passed. Suddenly she called out, "Aunt Rachel! Aunt Rachel! there's a beautiful carriage coming up the road with a gray horse; there 's a gentleman and little girl in it, the little girl has on a blue bonnet; see, they have turned, and are coming up this way; there, the horse has stopped, and they are getting out." The carriage had stopped, the gentleman fastened his horse to a butternut-tree in front of the gate, and with his little girl was walking up the yard. Ohe had watched them closely till she saw the gate open; and being a little timid, child-like, she ran back into the kitchen, while Aunt Rachel went to the door to meet them. It was a gentleman who rode out there nearly every sum- mer, Mr. Harwood, to whom Uncle Isaac had sold potatoes.   OLIE 8 NEW ACQUAINTANCE.          53 turnips, apples and butter. This time he came to get some butter, and to enjoy the fresh country air. Having business on beyond, he had brought his little daughter Ella for a ride. Ella had never been way out in the country before, she was a little older than Olie, and soon made friends with her. Aunt Rachel asked Mr. Harwood to let her stay with Olie, all day, until he returned that night, as he was going on some law business some miles further. Mr. Harwood seldom refused Ella any reasonable request. Children get very well acquainted in a short time; and Olie and Ella enjoyed their day together very much. Aunt Rachel showed them    how to- make a nice little cubby-house with bricks and board; and she gave them bits of broken crockery for dishes, and old patty-pans in which they made mud cakes; they took the seeds of the sun-flower for raisins, and tan bark for flour; they had acorns for cups and saucers; they filled Olie's little pitcher with water from the spring, and cut up some of. the apples Richard had given Olie for meat ,and fish; they went out to see Richard's gar- den, and there was "Richie," as he told Olie to call him watching the flowers. Richie was a great pet wherever he was; his mother almost idolized him, she had taught him to sing and to read when very young.    He was quite familiar with his native city, and could find his way about the principal streets alone; he knew more then most boys of his age, and had traveled with his uncle the doctor a great deal; the boys called him Doctor Richie altogether. His Aunt Betsey thought he felt himself better than the country boys, because he had had   "           OLIE. better advantages, and dressed nicer than they, and had lived so long in the city. She often talked to him about pride, and would send him out to the shed for wood, and to the spring for water. She made him string beans, husk corn, shell peas, pare apples, and pick up chips; she was afraid he would feel above work, because his father was rich and lived in the city; she tried to have him go without shoes, as the other boys did; but he insisted upon it that the stones would hurt his feet. He was naturally graceful in his movements; he was as gallant to the two little maidens as an older and town-bred cavalier would have been in escorting some elegant lady about the city, showing her the wonderful sights; the lions, etc. He knew where the grass was greenest, where the sun shone brightest; he led them into shady dells, gathered wild flowers, cracked butter-nuts, and picked berries for them. He told them where the squirrel lived, and how the robins built their nests. Before the sun was down, he took them a long walk down by the banks of the Delaware, where he launched his pretty little miniature boat, the water was low, and they went out on the water's edge, and skipped stones. Olie and Ella tried, but Richie, who was well-skilled in the art, astonished them by his dexterity, and they both thought him the most wonderful and obliging little boy they had ever seen. Richie had promised Uncle Gideon he would go with him and get some hay that afternoon; so the girls were left to chat awhile by themselves after their walk. They sat down on the stony seat which Richie had covered with the prettiest moss   OLIENS NEW ACQUAINTANCE.         55 he could find, and ate their butter-nuts. Olie never forgot how Richie looked with his old straw-hat full of flowers, and hands full of berries. Olie told Ella all she knew about herself and Uncle Frank; and Ella told Olie all about her home, and her sisters Anna and Clara. Anna told her such pretty stories at night when she was going to bed, and Clara would sing and play for her; Clara would play so beautifully on the harp, such a great big, large harp mother had, with strings to it, and mother could sing, too. She wanted Olie to come and stay a good while, and make her a nice visit; papa would take her out to ride-and walk, and see the beautiful things in the shop-windows. Then they could drink tea out of her china cups and saucers, and Sarah would bake them such dear little pies and cakes. Sarah made such pretty cakes, with sugar all over the top of them. "Won't you come, Olie?" said she, " come to-morrow, you shall sleep with me in my little bed. I can lie there at night and see the stars, first I see one little one twinkle, and then another, and another, I look out at them, and they look in at- me, they look just like the light I have in my room, first when mother turns it, it burns so little, then it flashes right up, and makes a bright blaze. I guess some little angel goes round at night in the streets of heaven and lights up those little star-candles; they only burn at night, for I have looked a great many times in the day, and I never can see any; and we have such pretty flowers in the garden, and at night, the lightning-bugs, so Sarah always calls them, fly about all through the garden; and Sarah catches them and puts   56            OLIE. them under a tumbler. Did you ever see a lightning-bug, Olie ." Olie did n't know as she had, though Uncle Frank had once shown her something that he called a fire-fly. "Oh, that 's just the same," said Ella, " mother calls them fire-flies, but Sarah always calls them lightning-bugs, and they look so much like little pieces of lightning flying about, that I forget to call them fire-flies. Mother says, Sarah has n't had any body to teach her, and sometimes she does n't call things by pretty names. Sarah was in the poor-house when she was a little girl; her mother died, and she had nobody to teach her how to read or talk." "What are those little flowers in the corner of Richard's garden, Olie?" "Aunt Rachel calls them Johnny-jump-ups, but Uncle Frank once gave me some in a little bouquet-I think they were just like them-and he called them violets, I believe." "My sister Clara has a big bunch of violets in her folio, all painted," said Ella, " sister Anna painted them a good while ago; she has ever so many paintings of flowers, and birds, and trees; it would take you all day to look at them, Olie. But you will come to see me, won't you, Olie? there 's our carriage coming; I wish father had waited a little longer." "Perhaps he 'll come after some more butter," said Olie, "next week." "' Oh, no, he don't come out in the country very often, he 's too busy; he sends John, and John drives so fast, I 'm afraid to ride with him; he drives fast on purpose to scare me, so Sally says." u Who 's John?" said Olie.   THE PROMSED VISIT.          57 "Why, don't you know our John?" said Ella, " he's Sally's cousin, and he always comes out after our butter, he drives our- carriage, and he wears a funny-looking coat and white gloves-but then we won't want any more butter till spring I guess, father buys such a good big lot of it." Olie promised Ella she would make her a long visit, and bring her doll and Charlie too, if Aunt Rachel was willing. Mr. Harwood was talking with Aunt Rachel, when the chil- dren came in from the yard. Ella kept pulling his coat, try- ing to get his attention. After a few moments, she succeeded in asking him to ask Aunt Rachel to let Olie come and make them a nice visit to- morrow. Mr. Harwood said the carriage would not be at home to- morrow, but next week he would send for her, if Aunt Ra- chel was willing. "How pretty she looks, does n't she pa?" said Ella, as Olie stood in the doorway by Aunt Rachel's side, waiting to see them start, "she's a nice little girl, ain't she? Oh, we've had such a nice time of it; you 'll send for her Monday, won't you, pa?" Ohe was so much pleased with her new friend that night, she forgot to feed Charlie till quite late; she had just filled his little cup with fresh water, and sprinkled seed in the cage, when she heard the cry, so unusual in the country, quite loud and near, it sounded fire! fire t She ran to the door, and seeing Aunt Rachel running across the road quite fast, with a pail in her hand; she seized her little pitcher, and, filling it with water, followed on as fast as she could, and run without spilling but little of the water.   CHAPTER VII. FIRE  IN  THE  SWAMP. Not with the golden sun Doth joy's full orb arise- With brightest dawn may come, Sorrow and tears and sighs. As OLIE came out to the turn in the road, a beautiful sight met her eye; the woods seemed all on fire. Uncle Isaac's new fence that stretched across the meadow dividing his farm from uncle Gideon's, was all in a bright blaze, so Olie thought- she had just come in sight of part of it, the part that was nearest the new wagon-house. The men had been burning fallow during the day and sup- posing the fire extinguished, had all gone home to tea and left it. Uncle Isaac was getting old, and he had worked very hard all day clearing stumps off the land, he meant to have his farm as smooth as any in the neighborhood. Aunt Rachel said he would n't rest so long as there was one old stump left. So after supper, being very tired, he had ensconced himself snugly in the old arm chair in the corner, his favorite seat, with newspaper in one hand, and pipe in the other, he had fixed himself to take a little comfort. Richie's uncle had sent him a Delaware Gazette published   FIRE IN THE SWAMP.          59 last -Wednesday, and he had lent it to Uncle Isaac, after Aunt Betsey and Uncle Gideon had read it. Fresh reading matter was rather scarce at Aunt Rachel's, so Uncle Isaac wanted to make the most of it; he put on his old spectacles and began to read the first column intending to go regularly through with the paper before Aunt Rachel got hold of it. He said she was in such a fidget to read the " first-rate murders and pretty larcenies," there was no knowing when he 'd get sight on' it if she got it first. He was just reading something about the next county fair, when he heard Uncle Gideon's stentorian voice screaming out at the kitchen-door, "Fire! fire! there 's fire in the swamp, Isaac i" So the tired man dropped his spectacles, pipe and paper, seized his old straw hat and a large pail of water, which al- ways stood on an old bench by the kitchen-door, and calling out to Aunt Rachel, "Come old woman, come along, I'm afraid the wagon-house will go; it's so terrible dry now-it seems as if all creation was going to burn up." True enough, it was "terrible dry;" it had not rained for weeks, there had not been such a time for years in the recollec- tion of that time-honored and most respected individual, the oldest inhabitant. The grass had lost its native green, and was of a most un- becoming faded straw-color, save a few verdant patches along the banks of the Delaware. And even the shriveled branches, of this noble river seemed like the emaciated limbs of some half-starved giant, as they wandered along the thirsty earth. The ground beyond the river, and that near the emerald edge bordering its bright waters, was hopelessly dry and parched.   60           o L IE. Here and there an occasional green islet studded its smooth surface. Many verdant leaves, thriving plants and blooming flowers, had withered in the scorching noontide ; and while that sum- mer's sun should shine, no coming shower could make them lift again their fallen heads. The mountains around, more immutable than the lower hills and valleys, preserved their changeless green, as if the early dews had wasted their sweetness among their cloudy summits, not deigning to linger on the world beneath. Nature in her sunniest mood had borrowed autumn's gayest pencil, and given here and there a solitary maple a crimson top, in premature contrast to the shadowy drapery of the sur- rounding trees. Not a solitary cloud for weeks had rested in the blue heavens; occasionally a wandering vapor would speck the horizon, to vanish ere the longing eye could trace its shadowy outline; not a lone kindly drop had found its way to the thirsty earth, or a single soft South wind whispered of a com- ing shower. Down deep in its heart the old earth seemed dry and parched; Uncle Isaac's fire that day had burned, and burned, and blazed, and died away; twilight's shadow hovered o'er the mountain's brow, and lingered in the valley; no moon kept its bright watch o'er the deserted meadow, nought but the mild stars were left to do their unfailing shining; and here and there a tiny twinkler peeped out on the still earth. But far from the gaze of mortals, or the light of stars the fire kept burning on under the ground; spreading rapidly among the dry roots, and when the weary workers had gone   FIRE IN THE SWAMP.          61 home to rest, it suddenly loomed up among the bushes and kindled anew along the swamp; faster and faster like a truant child it sped, until Richie's bright eyes looking out from Aunt Betsey's old south window, chanced to spy the curling flame. Richie quickly gave the alarm, and when Olie reached the scene of action, a motley group were gathered there. Uncle Gideon and Aunt Betsey, Uncle Isaac and Aunt Rachel, Mr. George Smith who kept a large tannery near there, and Mr. Hawley who owned the saw-mill and wagon-house near Uncle Isaac's, and little Daniel, Aunt Betsey's nephew, a lad nearly four years old; who to all appearances, when any thing was going on, was the greatest business-man in the neighbor- hood. As the flames increased and rose higher and higher, some came from the other side of the river, and over the hill to see the fire and help put it out. Olie soon emptied her little pitcher, and Richie who was "fighting the fire," as he said, with a number of other boys, getting sight of Olie told her to go a little way with him. up the hill, where was a nice pile of boards, and she might sit and watch the fun. It was quite a high pile of smooth boards. Richie placed some stones on one side of it for steps. He spread his clean handkerchief on one end of the boards, and told Olie to sit there and watch. The boys all seemed to look up to Richie as their captain; he took the lead in all their sports, and they never questioned his right to command. Quickly armning themselves with large branches from the adjoining trees, they all followed Richie and commenced whipping the fire with no   62           OLIE. little courage; and greatly to Olie's delight, showed much dexterity in extinguishing the flames. Ohe had been in a high, state of pleasurable excitement all the evening:- the scene had been so new, so strange, so ani- mated the workers there, and life at Aunt Rachel's had been so quiet, but this scene had called forth the exertion and the interest of all. Ohe had been so happy she wished there could be a fire every night " if it would not burn any thing up." Then she had looked up at the stars out under the open sky, and Richie had told her some of their names. Olie thought Richie knew every thing. Ohe had many a time rode up and down Broadway in the evening with Uncle Frank, and been delighted with the long row of lamps on each side of the street; they seemed like a train of beautiful stars growing smaller and smaller, as the eye lost sight of them in the distance. The little spring near the swamp was almost exhausted; pail after pail of water was poured on the curling flame, and still it burned. Ohe had never seen any thing half so beauti- ful. A long bridge of fire spanned the meadow rising up in the center like a beautiful golden arch; little bushes every moment newly kindling, burning up all along the bridge, gave the whole scene a brilliant and ever-varying aspect. It looked so, Mr. Hawley said (and he had lived in the Far West), like a distant, burning prairie. Richie said " it seemed as if the stars had dropped on the earth and - kept up a twink- ling along the fence and bush-bordered swamp." Ever and anon as the fantastic wreaths of flame died away, a fitful gust of wind would come, and the whole scene would flash, and gleam, and sparkle anew.   FIRE IN THE SWAMP.          63 By great exertion the wagon-house was saved, the fire ex- tinguished, and the group disbanded. . Ohe was glad to get home once more. Richie walked by her side, and told her they often " had big fires there in dry weather, he'd like to have one every night, he 'd had .such a nice time of it; but he did wish the boys would n't call him Doctor Richie; he did n't see what had put it in their heads." The lights were put out in the few houses round very quick that night, and all was soon very still. Aunt Rachel was so tired, she had forgotten to close the front door; she thought there was no danger of thieves: no- body around there kept their doors fastened. Olie slept till quite late the next morning. When she came down stairs, her first thought was her bird; she must give him his breakfast as usual. Poor birdie! he had such"a late supper last night, she would be sure and feed him in time now; so he should have his breakfast first. Then in the afternoon Richie had promised to go with her and get some pretty wild-flowers to put on his cage. She could hear him. sing so sweetly every morning, Uncle Isaac said, "he was getting to be quite a musicianer." Uncle Isaac never liked birds, but then this was Olie's bird, and he liked every thing of Olie's; so Aunt Rachel said, though he thought before Olie- came, it would be a "real botheration" to have such a little body about the house. But no sweet notes came from the cage that morning. Olie thought perhaps birdie was tired, and had overslept himself too. She ran with a light step to the cage-the door was open- she climbed up a bench on top of the big chair, and on   "  .         OLIE. tiptoe looked in. Charhe was not asleep; no, he was not there: a few stray feathers with blood on them, on the bot- tom of the cage, told the story-that Tabby, good-for-nothing, ugly, wicked, naughty, hateful, cruel Tabby, had carried off poor Charlie. Olie knew too well what would be Charlie's fate if left to Tabby's tender mercies; but how could it happen Tabby had always seemed so quiet, so good-natured, so friendly to Olie; and then she had always been so careful to shut the door of the cage tight; perhaps last night when she gave Charlie his drink, and heard the cry of fire, she might have forgotten to shut the door quite tight, perhaps she had n't quite fastened it, and being a little ajar, the wind had blown it open, and Tabby--here Olie's self-possession entirely failed her, as her imagination conjured up the rest of the terrible tragedy. She burst out into an uncontrollable fit of sobbing, sob- bing as if she would sob her little heart away; and then she would be unnaturally quiet, almost motionless. She was thinking how pretty Charhe was. how much she loved him, how sweetly he sung in the morning, how quick he would jump about in his little cage, how she meant to keep him to show Uncle Frank when he came back, how much com- pany he would have been the long winter; as these thoughts came thick and fast, Charlie seemed dearer than ever; and her tears burst forth afresh as she thought of his terrible fate. It was Olie's heaviest grief, the heaviest grief her little heart had known; she had lost her mother, but that was when she was younger, when a night's tears would be for- gotten with the morning's sunshine; her dear Uncle Frank   FIRE IN THE SWAMP.          66 had gone to Europe, but then he would come back 'again; but birdie, poor birdie, would never come again. Mingled with the bitterest grief was the least endurable of feelings, self-reproach, Charlie's cage might have been tightly closed, and then he might have lived and sung always, so Olie thought: she up- braided herself for his fate; it was so careless; she wished she had never seen the fire; she would rather have sat on her little stool and watched all night long by the dear cage. But it was all over; she could not bear to see the cage now; and those feathers-a shudder came all over her, as she thought how Charlie might have tried to struggle and get away from Tabby. Aunt Rachel tried to comfort her, but the more she tried, the more Olie would grieve. She didn't seem disposed to talk about it, but would sit a long, long time resting her head on her hand, as if-in deep thought. Every few moments big tears would run down her face. She could have borne it bet- ter if Charhe had flown away; but to have him killed, that was so cruel. Olie didn't feel like harming Tabby, but she kept away from her, she never could caress her again; and when she saw her walking about, she would heave a deep sigh, and turn away. to weep. All through Olie's life, she could never see a bird in a cage without being reminded of the fate of her lost darling. Many and many a time did she shut up some bright hope in her heart, only to find it, like her bird, crushed and gone. It had been to Olie a long sad forenoon. That afternoon,   "           OLIE. Richie saw her going about the yard very pale,-and with her head bowed down; Aunt Rachel came in a few moments to see Aunt Betsey. Richie was in Aunt Betsey's pantry making up some pills. Aunt Betsey had n't been as well as usual, she had a trouble- some cough, and working so hard at the fire had n't help it any; the doctor had left her some bitter medicine, which Richie insisted upon she could take easier if it were made up in pills. Aunt Betsey could n't deny Richie any thing, he had such a taking way with him, she said; it rained that afternoon, and she was afraid to have him play out doors with the other boys; he wasn't quite as tough as they were, and as he would be busy about something; and he might be doing something worse; she let him " conjure" with the pills. She expected he'd have every thing upside down in the pan- try, she 'd got it all in apple-pie -order, and she never saw man or boy yet who knew how to keep dishes up straight. Richie had his task nearly finished, when he heard Aunt Rachel telling about Olie's misfortune; how she had cried herself almost to death, and nothing could comfort her. Uncle Isaac had tried hard enough, and given up in des- pair. He had told her " crying could do no good, if she shed tears enough to make the grass green around the door, crying couldn't bring the bird to life again; we'd all got to die sometime or other; and birds must die too." Olie only cried the harder; so Uncle Isaac thought they 'd better let the child alone, she 'd get over it after a while, time would cure all grief.   FIRE IN THE, SWAMP.          67 Richie left his pills-went softly, up the back-stairs, and came down quickly with a bundle on his arm. He was out of the back-door, into Aunt Rachel's kitchen, and by Olie's side in a moment; he said not a word of her loss, but opened his bundle, and took out a little glass box; there was something all snugly wrapped up in cotton. Olie watched Richie as he took out of the cotton two beautiful little gold fish, a pretty duck, and a red and steel- colored fishing-rod; the fish were not alive, but Richie got a bowl of water, and put them in with the duck, and made them swim around after the fishing-rod; he made them swim round and round, then backward and forward, then dive down deep, following the rod, which was a magnet, just where he pleased to guide them. The fish looked so bright in the water, and so oddly swimming round with the duck, that Olie laughed aloud. Ohe had n't laughed before since the fire, she had hardly spoken a word all -day. After Richie had diverted Olie a long time with the fish, he put them away in the box, and showed her a beautiful little book, full of painted pictures and stories in rhyme. He read Olie some of the stories, and explained the pic- tures; he stayed till-almost night, then he told her she might keep the book and the fish too, if she would learn how to swim them by the next morning.  He told her to begin early, right after breakfast, and try, till he came in to see how she was getting along. Ohe was delighted with the gift, but was unwilling to take it; it was too much; but Richie had a way of making peo- ple do as he liked; so Olie kept them, as Richie said he could   68            OLIE. catch live fish as many as he wanted, and as for books, why he had books enough now. Olie went to bed early. Aunt Rachel talked about the book and the fish till quite late; she had Olie show Uncle Isaac how the fish could swim and dive, and the duck too. Olie would cry now and then about her bird, and that night she sobbed out her little prayer, "God bless Uncle Frank and Olie-"  Poor birdie! she could pray for him no more. Aunt Rachel thought Richie a pretty good doctor after all, at least for diseases of the heart. The magnetic fish and the book were a present to Richie from his father, and came in that morning's stage; to Olie they were a great curiosity, she had never seen any before; and was quite puzzled to know what made them move around so many different ways. Richie tried to explain as well as he could its principle of magnetism, and showed Olie how to magnetize a needle. He prized his father's gift very much; but it made him far happier, to try and cheer Olie a little, than to keep a whole library of books and a pond of fishes all for himself. Olie laid them under her pillow that night. It was not till the next day that Richie alluded to Olie's loss; then he told her how hard it -would have been to keep Charlie warm all winter; he might have suffered much from the cold; and little birds knew nothing after they died; Charlie's trouble was all over, he would have no more pain now. They could take the pretty little feathers and bury them in a box in the ground near his little garden, just under a small willow-tree. So Richie got a box, and they buried all that was left of   FlR 1 ' IN T HE SWAMP.        69 poor Charlie; and then they found a smooth stone, and put over the little mound. Richie went to the shop and got an old chisel, and began to write Charlie's name. Ohe said they would call him Charlie Brant, so Richie wrote on the stone, in not very smooth characters: '; IN MEMORY OF "CHARLIE BRANT, who died-" "Noo, no, no " sobbed out Olie, " he did n't die, the cat killed him." Richie tried to soothe Olie, after sobbing a long time, she seemed a little, more quiet, and pleased with the idea of plant- ing flowers near Charlie s grave. Richie concluded that it might be best to leave the inscrip- tion as it was; first he thought he would draw a picture of Tabby with the bird in her mouth, as the most appropriate device he could get; but then the frequent sight of that might remind Olie unnecessarily of Charlie's cruel fate, so he thought he'd wait; and perhaps sometime his father would let him buy a marble pillar with its top broken off, to show how sudden Charlie's death had been; just as he had seen in the Greenwood cemetery. It never -entered into Richie's head that his father might think such a monument too expensive for Charlie-nothing seemed too good for Olie, not even gold or diamonds.   CHAPTER VIII. A NEWS FOR RICHE. UNCLE Gideon had been to the village and brought a letter for Richie ; a letter from his father; it was the day after the erection of Charlie's monument, and Richie was planning something new to please Olie. Richie's old aunt had come from England to make them all a nice visit; so Richie was sent for to meet her; his father re- quested him to bring all his clothes, as they- probably needed repairing. Aunt Betsey thought it quite possible that his father would think it best for him to remain at home during the fall and winter and attend school. Richie had very little time to think about going; he had to pack up, and a good many other little things to do. He was very obliging to Aunt Betsey, and offered to go and bring her as much water as she wanted from the spring; Aunt Bet- sey's cold was no better, and she was glad to avail herself of Richie's assistance. He found Olie at the spring with her little pitcher. -When they came down by the apple-tree near Richie's little garden, Richie asked Olie to sit down with him on the mossy seat, where she sat first when the apple fell at her feet.   NEWS  FOR RHE.           1 -R'ichie told Olie he was going away early the next morng ing; that he would come back again as soon as he could, per- haps in a few weeks; that he would write her a little letter soon. Among his other treasures he had a pretty, little, old-fash- ioned locket, that was once his grandmother's.  Richie's grandmother had been a very wealthy lady, and was fond of hoarding up splendid clothing and jewelry. Richie had pre- served this locket, more for a curiosity than for any peculiar attachment for his aged relative, whom he had never seen. There had once -been some braided hair in it, but it was lost out. Richie took the locket from his pocket and showed it to Olie. Olie asked him why he did n't put some of his own hair in it; it would look so much prettier with hair in it. Richie said he would put some in if she would wear- it. Olie ran in the house and brought out Aunt Rachel's big shears, the first cutting-instrument she could find. Richie cut off one of his dark curls and put it in under the glass; he wanted to put some. of Olie's in too,-he said they would look so pretty together; her's was so much lighter than his. So Olie let Richie cut a lock of her glossy-brown hair and twine with his; he fastened the locket, and taking the straw-colored ribbon off from his new straw-hat, which his father had sent him, he tied it in the locket and fastened it on Olie's neck; telling. her to wear it till he came back again, and he would bring her something better. Richie's and Olie's names, that he planted in his little gar- den were coming up; the little green leaves forming the   72           VOLIE. letters were very thick,--here and there a tiny green bud peeped up. Richie gave Olie his little watering-pot, and told her to watch the flowers till he came again. Olie wished there was no such place in the world as Eng- land, or Europe either. Every thing she loved must die or go away and leave her. After Richie went away, Aunt Rachel tried to divert Olie from her sadness by telling her that he would come back again, and then, perhaps, Mr. Harwood would come soon and take her in his nice carriage, and she'd have such a good visit with Ella, Miss Anna would tell her stories, and Clara would sing and play for her, and then she could take her fish and duck along, Aunt Rachel frequently expatiates on the pleasing theme; she describes in such glowing colors Mr. Harwood's elegant house, fine garden, beautiful flowers, and room full of big books, until Olie thinks it must be the most delightful spot in the world; every day she wonders if Mr. Harwood will come, and many times each day she goes to the front door to see if the carriage is coming. Friday morning came. Mr. Harwood had not been there. What could be the matter? perhaps he was ill; Ella might be sick. Ohe had packed up her dolls so many times, and tried so hard to keep her clothes clean to be all ready when Mr. Har- wood came. Olie could think of nothing but the visit, it was the only pleasure in immediate prospect; she would see so many flow- ers and books, and then hear beautiful music too, and this was   FIRE IN THE SWAMP.          73 her ideal of happiness; as much happiness as could be, with- out Uncle Frank. Olie's ideas of books were more architectural than intellect- ual; the foundation of her structure had usually been classic, as Uncle Frank said, a large Greek Lexicon or a Delphin edi- tion of Virgil. 4   CHAPTER IX. CHT-CHAT---UNCLE ISAAC S FEARS. "She knew no loneliness of heart, no shadowy ideal,- No sighing for the unattained, the beautiful unreal; She heard a glad philosophy throughout existence hymning, And often thought the cup of life for her was full to brimming." IT was a bright and beautiful morning, no cloud in the sky, not a breath ruffled the stream that went dancing on its way beneath the willow. Little blue buds just bursting peeped up from the green grass, warm sunbeams stole in through half- open windows. Only a few steps from the Harwoods' a little way up the street, in a large old-fashioned house, a merry girl was busily plying her needle. It was Anna's old friend, Julie; hour after hour she worked-singing sometimes snatches of old songs as she sat by the window. "Julie," said her mother, " you 'll spoil your eyes, and to- night your head will ache. Can't you live without a bag a day or two longer? Do put it up and go and call on Anna Harwood and Lizzie Fanning, it is a delightful morning for a walk. Mrs. Harwood asked me the other day what had be- come of you." "Mother, I 've nearly finished this pattern, I 've only a few more leaves and one rose-bud to make, you know I promised to return it to-morrow, I don't like to keep borrowed things   CHT CHAT.            75 long. If I work till night I can finish it; perhaps Anna Har- wood is not at home, she goes out so often to see her proteges I call them, who live in that dull and dirty street. Yesterday morning she went to Mrs. Lanes' to take something she made for her sick child. I 'm sure I could never go into such a dis- mal place; but if she is at home, I don't feel in the mood of rigging up for a calling expedition. If I could put on my sun- bonnet and go 'cross lots,' as cousin Ephraim says, perhaps I might go and sit a little while with Anna; but if I start I must make half a dozen- calls, and to-day I could think of nothing to say, and I'd be vexed with myself and other people too; we 'd all be stupid together. To-morrow, if it be pleasant, I may feel like conjugating the verb to call in all its moods and tenses; but to-day, I like nothing better than to sit with you in this corner and talk or be silent, just as I please, and have real solid enjoyment imagining myself some wonderful person- age; but in society I am not free. "'The presence of another is a chain, My trammeled spirit tries to break in vain.'" "But society has claims upon you Julie." "Yes, mother, I know that, and I 'll take care not to put myself in it when I am not prepared to meet them." "You may see the time, Julie, when you will be obliged to do a great many disagreeable things just when you are not in the mood, as you say." "Perhaps I may mother, but I hope not under your admin- istration; do let me enjoy the present; but here comes Kate Hall, and now I have a real practical reason for staying 'at home."   76           OLIE. "While she is with you Julie," said Mrs. Wallace, "I 'll step in and see how Mrs. Hilman is to-day." "What are you doing this charming morning?" said Kate, as she walked in, and seated herself in the rocking-chair by Julie, " every body seems to be out; I was afraid you might not be at home. What have you been doing with yourself these three weeks-have you turned nun?" "Oh, no! Kate, but I've been in a great hurry to finish this piece of work; it is a present for Anna Harwood. Monday is her birth-day. I know it is a very rare thing for me to be industrious. I don't wonder my friends are alarmed about it. When I finish this I have any quantity of gloves  to mend. I believe if ever I'm haunted by any thing, it will be the ghost of an old glove. Where did you get those beautiful roses, Kate?"  "They came from Mr. Harwood's; their garden is a perfect 'wilderness of sweets,' so many varieties of roses, lilies, and verbenas; and here is some dill I got at old Mrs. Williams. She wanted me to take one of her beautiful sun-flowers, but I declined so formidable a bouquet, and paid my respects to the hollyhocks, larkspurs, and poppies, which manage to find their way up in the world through their powerful rivals, the onions and cabbages; when they get up, I presume they feel as the Frenchman did, who built his house six stories high, that ground is cheap up there ; by-the-by she said she heard you= cough in church last Sunday, and she told me to be sure and tell you to come and get some of her hoar- hound and balsam. Cousin Ned will tell you how to pre- pare it; he says he has studied with Doctor Williams, as he always calls the old lady; but have you heard the news, Julie . "   , ti n 1*'- n aI A T .    ' , W/  . HAT "No, I have heard nothing new. What have you heard Kate .". "They say there has been a great failure in New Orleans. Flora Bird's father has had a letter informing him that all the gentlemen engaged in that cotton speculation have failed. Flora's Uncle, Mr. Charles Bird, has lost all." "But won't Mr. Harwood suffer ." asked Julie. "I presume he will, father said (you know father is post- master now) that he handed Mr. Harwood yesterday a letter, post-marked New Orleans. Mr. Harwood opened it in the office, as he often does; father said his lip quivered, and he changed color as he read." "Do you think his family know it?" said Julie. "I don't think  they knew  it yesterday afternoon," said Kate; "Anna passed our house, looking in fine spirits. If she knew it, as she must know it soon, she caa't be as proud as she has been--at least, I always thought her so-persons almost always are in her circumstances." "Anna is not proud," said Julie, " circumstances will never change her; she will be Anna still. "You have more faith in human nature than I," said Kate; ' I believe circumstances affect all more or less." "They do, most all," said Julie. "You and I, Kate, I fancy, would be much affected by change of place, or loss of com- orts. I am like a chame]ion, I do not mould circumstances, mut I  take their hue; with every body the spiritual mercury vill rise or fall as the rough winds blow, or the warm sun hines; but notwithstanding these little tides in the affairs of ife, these ebbings and flowings of joy or grief, such spirits'as iy mother's and Anna Harwood's, keep up a   kind of equi.   78           . OLIE. librium, or like those flowers which fold up their petals when the storm comes, and open them when the sun breaks forth-- they catch the dew and sunshine of every passing day, and, like the "heath flower," rise elastic from grief's heaviest tread; there is a light within, Kate, that never grows dim. When I am surrounded by all sorts of spiritual shadows I can borrow a ray from their sunny spirits; it steals its way up into some corner of my heart-way up a winding stairs, where two or three wise resolutions and good feelings are stowed away; and I do sometimes think,- as little Fan Hall says, I should be- come gooder myself if I always had such people near me- no--Kate, my mother and Anna are real Christians; they will be contented and consistent wherever God puts them; it is all a mystery to me. I know nothing of it by experience, but that is the reason they differ so from the rest of the world. Mrs. Harwood's early history was full of interest. I heard her say once she could write a large book about her own life; and when I asked her why she did not write it, she said, there were books enough now, and if there were an intel- lectual dearth, there were wiser heads than hers to supply it. I spent a delightful evening there a few weeks since, and she told us some of her history. Cousin Will knew her when she was a girl. He says she lost all her relatives when quite young, and, by some dishonesty, was deprived of her inherit- ance, and was obliged to be a governess in a very proud family. The only son became much interested in her, and his mother unjustly accused her of trying to win his affections. Just as she was about to leave the family, not knowing where to go, she received a letter from a lawyer, informing her that a distant connection had died, and left her all her fortune.   CHT-CHAT. .           9 Mrs. Harwood was now as cordially treated as she had been before neglected, but she rejected that attention which was only caused by her changed circumstances, and left the family one day during the son's absence. "I think the lady's name was Graves. Her first husband's name ended with wood-Redwood, Linwood, or some kind of wood-and the son bore his name, and was his mother's idol." Mrs. Harwood, soon after leaving Mr. Graves, met Mr. Harwood, and her marriage was a very happy one. The home at the Harwoods is just my ideal of a home. I would rather visit them than any other family. I hope this sad news is not true," "I hope not," said Kate, suddenly rising; " but it is twelve o'clock now, and I promised to be home at twelve. Ned says I am never at home when I promise to ride with him. He says we ladies get together and talk about nothing but the flounces on our dresses or trimming on our mantillas; he's a great tease." It is an old adage that bad news soon spreads, and in a few hours many knew, and some felt, the Harwoods' misfortunes; with some it was a matter of curiosity only, and many wondered ' what the Harwoods would do now, if Miss Anna would hold her head as high as she had done, and Mrs. Harwood keep her fine carriage :' so people talked, but there would soon be one almost silent group who would feel too deeply the sudden calamity to trust themselves to say much about it." Olie knew nothing of the Harwoods' troubles; but as day after day passed, she began to think Ella had forgotten all about her ; it was a sad thought; but her circle of friends was becoming very limited, she felt almost alone in the great world.   80           OLII. The more she thought about it, the more she felt grieved at this neglect; she began to feel that perhaps there was something wrong about her, that made people forget her. Richie too, she feared, had forgotten her; he promised to write her a letter, and she was sure he had plenty of time. Every day she teased Uncle Isaac to go to the post-office, and when he came back without any thing, he would joke her about her long face, and tell her he'd write her a letter some time himself, and he guessed that would do as well as to have one from Richie. While at the post-office one morning, Uncle Isaac heard somebody say that Charles Harwood had failed; he told Atnt Rachel when he came home, and she was very much    I surprised. She thought it must be a mistake. Mr. Harwood was so rich; then his wife had property too: it could not be; he was one of the best business men in the country. Uncle Isaac was sure it was true ; he had seen a gentleman who knew Mr. Harwood. Olie heard them talking about Mr. Harwood's having failed, and she thought he must be sick; she knew -when Mr. Smith was so very sick the doctor said he had failed very much. Olie felt so sadly about Mr. Harwood's sudden illness, she thought she could say nothing about it to Aunt Rachel, but she gave up all hope of making the long desired visit. Mr. Harwood would die, she knew he would; every body she had heard of who had lived near Aunt Rachel's who had been sick, had died. Mr. Smith had died. Poor Ella! how sorry she felt for her. The name of the gentleman who had brought the news of   UN CLE ISA   a'S FEARS.       81 Mr. Harwood's reverses was Dr. Henry. Ohe had only over- heard a few words of Uncle Isaac's conversation with his wife. She came in from the spring with her little pitcher of water just as Aunt Rachel said: "Are you sure, Isaac, that Dr. Henry said Mr. Harwood had certainly failed?" "Yes," said Isaac, " certainly failed; and that he thought he never would get over his troubles." "Yes, those were the very words Dr. Henry said just as I came away." "Oh, dear!" thought Olie; "the doctor ought to know. Mr. Harwood will certainly die, and what will Ella do 8" Olie's recent troubles, child as she was, had made her more quiet, more reserved, less communicative than formerly. There were few who could sympathize with her sensitive nature, few who could appreciate all those quick changes of feeling; those lights and shadows playing over a spirit which was finely, delicately strung. Richie could enter into all her feelings--she used to tell him every thing-and if she did not tell him, he had a way of finding out just how she felt, without asking her any questions. Now that he was gone, the contrast between his thoughtful kindness and consolations, and all others she had known, save Uncle Frank, forced itself upon her heart, and she wished he would come back again. That night when Ohe was fast asleep, Uncle Isaac and Aunt Rachel had a long talk, while Uncle Isaac smoked his pipe and Aunt Rachel pared apples for the next day's baking. Uncle Isaac said he was sorry it had happened, this' bad luck of Harwood's, the poor child was so disappointed, she'd 4*   82           OLrEZ. calculated so much about it, and reckoned on it so long; he Id kinder thought all along Mr. Harwood would take a fancy to the child, he was such a "gin'rous, hull-souled man," she was such a taking child; she was no great beauty, to be sure; but then every body liked her, and when he came home o' nights, and she warn't there, it seems as if the house was all dark, no matter how many candles were burning. "Do you know what I 've been thinkin' about, Rachel " said he, after he had sat silent a long time; occasionally tak- ing his hand from his eyes, to snuff the candle, at Rachel's repeated request; she was sure there was a letter in the can- dle; and being always rigidly observant of signs, she was careful to save these prophetic epistles. "Why, no, how should I know, Isaac?" said Rachel, setting down her pan of nicely-pared apples; " fortinah it's something about our old lame horse, or your new barn; you'r allays thinkin' about some improvement in that. I saw you up there cleanin' this morning. I expect afore long you'll be goin' off to York to get a new carpet for the barn floor, you 've set your heart on that barn so long; but I do wish, Isaac, you would n't wear that awful-looking old hat again, when you go to Mr. Hawley's; the brim is half torn off. I hid it away lait summer, and I thought you wouldn't get it again. Mr. Hawley allays looks so slick when he comes here, just as if he 'd come out of a band-box; you know you had time enough this arternoon to fix up a little; then those dreadful old boots, you have n't blacked them for months. You ought to shave up a little, too, when you go where there's ladies; you know Mr. Hawley's niece is there from York, and she ain't used to seeing such things."   "Well, never mind, Rachel," said Isaac, "we'd been so busy all 'long, I have n't thought of my boots. I s'pose I don't look as spruce as I might, but you know I 've got you now, Rachel, and I don't care for other folks' opinion of my looks; you're the only woman I ever thought of sprucing up for; if the Hawleys don't like me as I am, boots, hat, and all, I can't help it no how; the truth is, I never thought of 'goin' there till I got to the house, and Dick kinder turned as if he'd like to stop; so I thought I'd just give 'em a call, and see how they were getting on. But one o' these days, Rachel, arter killin' time, we'll smart up a little, and go and take a little tower around the country; if the grass had only greened up and we 'd made a thousand weight of butter, as we-did last year, we'd start off and see all your kin and mine too. But, Rachel, I warn't thinkin' about my horse nor my barn nother, I was a thinkin' when I was sittin' here, about that child. What if Brant should never come back again!" "Why, Isaac, he 'll certainly come back; he's too fond of home to stay in forrin parts allays, and then never fear, Isaac, whatever happens, I know Francis Brant too well; he's made his will long ago; depend upon it, there's men weaker than he, that allays makes their wills afore they takes a long jour- ney; he 'll leave Olie well provided for." "Yes, yes! I know that," said Isaac, "I know he meant to come back, but then he looked to me like a person clean gone with consumption, and these consumptive people go off won- derful quick sometimes. And these wills are always being put off; people thinks it makes 'em die sooner to make a will." "Mr. Brant always had a pale face," said Rachel, " but then   84            o LIE. it's natural to him; if you looked so, Isaac, I should think you was goin' to die right off." "1 Well you might," said Isaac, " if I should ever get whited off so; but mark my words, depend on 't, Brant won't live a great while; and if Brant should die suddenly, his witch of a wife would never give Olie any thing." "The other morning a little bird flew in our window, and I found it terrible hard to get it out; and last night I dreamt of seein' fresh meat all raw, ever so much on't, and I never knew it to fail, never." Here Isaac shook his head ominously. Isaac Shaw was not literary, or philosophical, or metaphysi- cal; but he was shrewd, and he had cherished the hope that MAr. Harwood might befriend little Olie; do something for her, something to which she was entitled by nature; for Isaac would insist upon it when people would tell him nobody knew any thing about her parents. "Never mind that, she is a little born lady any how." Mr. Harwood had told Isaac long ago when his son Charles died, that he should adopt some destitute child as his own. He had abundant means, and Ella was always wishing for a new sister. Uncle Isaac seemed about as lively as ever, yet some trouble preyed upon his mind. Aunt Rachel did n't notice it, so long as those about her appeared cheerful she was never apt to sus- pect them sad, or to imagine any secret sorrow. Outward grief of others always excited her sympathy; and in her plain way she tried to comfort all the apparently miserable. Uncle Isaac's farm was a very valuable one; he had ex- pended years of labor on it, so had his father before him. There was not a finer farm in the State. He had made some   UNCLE ISAAC7S FEARS.          85 few thousand dollars by long and hard labor; his fruit and vegetables were as good as any brought to market. Isaac had a younger brother to whom he had been very kind, for whom, having perfect confidence in him, he had en- dorsed two or three notes of considerable amount; equal to most of his little fortune. Very strangely his brother disposed of his property and left for California; leaving Isaac to pay all his debts. Besides endorsing his brother William's notes, Isaac had sent him at different times sums of money to invest; all this money had been squandered too; and one sum was the two hundred which Rachel had saved from her wages before her marriage. Isaac thought all was right, until within a few weeks rumors reached him  that his brother had suddenly left for California. It was very trying. Isaac had set his brother up in busi- ness, and then that money of Rachel's he could not bear to tell her about that; the season, too, had been bad, the dry weather had prevented any money-making that year; things looked to Isaac quite dark; Mr. Harwood had always been a good friend of his, and he regretted his misfortunes, besides he had placed some money in Mr. Harwood's hands for safe-keep- ing; he thought Mr. Harwood as safe as the bank itself. He began to feel that the world was quite full of trouble; that there was no use in setting your heart on any thing in it. The old homestead was so dear, he meant to keep that always; and perhaps so he said to himself, " something might turn up arter all," and by " screwin' and twistin, and turnin', things could yet be kept together like."   86            O LIE. Isaac loved the homely old house, the old saw-mill; the old woods and hills-there his kind old father died, and many a nail in those old planks were driven by his hand. Far more beautiful than a palace's spacious halls, seemed to Isaac that small-windowed, low-roofed, farm-house; with the sweet voice of Rachel as she sung the evening hymn after a long day of toil, ere the weary workers lay them down to rest. Sometimes Isaac wished he had a beautiful house-no-a fine house, on purpose for Olie, elegantly furnished. Dear child! she was a lady, every inch of her. Between an unpolished rough nature like Isaac's, and a timid, delicate child, there is often a strong friendship. Isaac Shaw was what would be called an obstinate man. Aunt Rachel said if he got a kink in his head, there was no such thing as getting it out; but Olie, " that little Olie," so Aunt Betsey said, " had pulled the wool over his eyes," and he would do any thing for her, no matter how tired he was. He was never gentle to any body else. Aunt Rachel thought it wasn't in him to be so softly as some men were; he'd get sometimes in quite a twitteration, but she'd keep still and let him fidget it out; but he never got out of patience with Olie, whatever she did, though he'd sometimes find his corn and kindling-wood "witched away" for baby-houses; and then she'd sometimes put his spectacles on the cat, those precious spectacles which nobody thought of touching, and once he found her sharpening her little lead-pencil with his razor, which he always kept in one particular spot on the little shelf; he'd always know if any body touched it; he was quite ten- acious as to the right of using his property, and then Olie's   UNCLE ISAAC'S FEARS.         87 pencil was hard enough, and she used the razor pretty well. But he said nothing, only looked quite sober, telling Olie that razors warnt made to mend pencils with; if it had been any body else, he'd threatened to have cut their ears off. But Olie would draw out his favorite chair at night, bring him his pipe and paper, and a glass of fresh water; for his part, he 'd liked her ever since he had set eyes on her.   CHAPTER X. UNCLE   FRANK 'S   LETTER. "The hands of the old clock upon the mantle that ticked off the hours when Charlie sighed, and when Charlie died, draw on toward midnight- the lamp-flame grows dimmer and dimmer-and thus it is that home, child- hood's home, passes away for ever, like the swaying of a pendulum, like the fading of a shadow on the floor."-IKE MARVEL. MUCH had transpired at Uncle Isaac's within a few days. Aunt Rachel had heard from Susan; she was very. ill, and anxious to have her mother come on immediately--so Aunt Rachel was getting ready to leave home. Meantime, Ohe had had a good long kind letter from Un- cle Frank. Uncle Isaac had put it under her plate at dinner. It sounded just as he used to talk, so Aunt Rachel said, " so feelingfull."  He told Olie, in his simple way, all about the beautiful countries he had visited, the sights he had seen: he had, with wonderful tact, remembered and written many things that would please a child. Uncle Isaac said it was so natural-like, just as if he was sittin' right down afore you, and' talkin', and so it was almost, Olie thought, next to seeing his dear face. But -what was better than all, Uncle Frank was coming home again, and was even now on his way.    The letter was   u N U NC LE I A N J' S L E T E R *    BP delayed on its way-and then was detained at the post-office. Uncle Frank might now be not many miles from home. "Who knows but he is now quite near?" said Olie, jumping about, and clapping her hands. As Olie turned the letter over, out came a little note-- there was something in it. How pleased she was to find a little ring just large enough for her to wear, it slipped on her fore-finger so nicely; it was a little plain gold ring, not at all costly, but it reminded Olie constantly of the loved giver. Then Ohe had never had a ring before-it was quite an era in her life-all little folks seem fond of jewelry, and are often delighted with the imitation, when the reality is beyond their hopes or means. Ohe had a little green box--she had seen Aunt Brant put her large assortment of jewelry in a box at night-so she kept this little box for her ring and the locket which Richie had given- her. She would lay them away at night so care- fully, then she would hold up her hand, then lay it down, then move it about to see which way the ring looked best. The letter was quite a curiosity at the farm-house; Isaac said it came "clean from Italy," and the envelop and post- mark were closely scanned through his old spectacles. Olie read the letter a great many times, she put it in her bosom, and would take it out very often to look at the en- velop, to see how prettily "Miss Olie Brant" looked, written 'in Uncle Frank's smooth, beautiful hand. It was the only letter she had ever received through the post-office, and both post-mark and seal were objects of great interest to her. How she wished she had a little writing-desk like Uncle Frank's to put it in.   90           OLIE. She laid it under her pillow that night, and read it as soon as she opened her eyes in the morning. There is nothing that brings the absent quite so near, nothing that revives more vividly the memory of loved ones, than some trace of their dear hand. Long weeks had passed since Ohe had pressed Uncle Frank's parting hand, and now she had lain close to her heart something which he had held; his hand had traced each letter, his eye rested on the page, his kind heart warm and fond as ever, had had kind thoughts of her all the time he was writing. Dear Uncle Frank! God bless him! he had not forgot- ten her, no, he seemed to love her more than ever, and when he came back again, the letter said, he t" would never leave her more." Olie wanted to tell every body that Uncle Frank was coming, she could think of nothing else. She was al- most glad he had been gone, she would be so. happy to see him again-she loved him better than ever. Mrs. Brant and Laura had only begun to enjoy the journey, having completed but half the contemplated tour. Mr. Brant did not consider himself in so dangerous or immediately alarming condition, as to require any escort on his return, or any especial attention, so he persuaded his wife and daughter to remain with the rest of the party until they had completed their tour; he was unwilling to mar their enjoyment; but he was anxious to return, believing that his native air was better for him than any foreign clime. It needed little persuasion to induce the gay Louisa to re- main; she feared not to let her delicate husband pursue his lone way homeward--he had always looked pale, and was   UNCLE FRANK S LETTER.          91 ailing so much, she had ceased to be alarmed-these frail constitutions endure much, and often last longer than more robust people; so Louisa reasoned with herself, when her conscience suggested that the time might come when a wife's presence and kind attentions would be valuable and conso- latory to a feeble invalid. She loved to travel, and she had formed so many charming acquaintances, whose gay society was not at all agreeable to her husband; perhaps after all he would be better off at home, and the time of their separation would soon pass away. A few tears came to her eyes as she bade him adieu, and thought that he looked even paler than usual. But her slight regrets were soon lost in making some preparations for that evening's soiree, which was to be attended by many whose acquaintance she had long coveted. It was a mystery to her that her strange husband should so much enjoy lingering for hours beneath the ruins of old ivy-covered, deserted walls, while she prized so much more the honor of an introduction to some wealthy lord, or the acquaintance of some fashionable countess. Surrounded by costly fabrics, which she was giving orders to have elegantly made up for the evening's display, hter departing husband was soon forgotten. Mr. Brant longed to come back, but it was his secret inten- tion to get Olie and go with her somewhere in the country and spend some weeks riding, walking, and sailing, and enjoying the repose of a quiet, country life,-he longed for the sweet companionship of the dear child. As his health became more delicate, he fancied the sight of those bright eyes would do him so much good, raise his depressed spirits which' had drooped so strangely of late.   O2           o LIE.. The first thing he would do on reaching home would be to examine into the state of his finances. He had written to have all debts canceled, and given directions about certain im- provements which he wished to have made in his property. Uncle Frank's ill-health and long absence from home had made things appear to him in a new and clearer light. He resolved, if ever he reached home again, to do his entire duty by the child of his adoption; the child he had left, it now seemed so cruelly, to the protection of others; he would hereafter kindly watch over and care for her, educate her, and make her as much like her own lost mother as he could. Louisa's recent gayety and indifference to his weal and com- fort had deeply grieved him. Perhaps the time might come when Olie, deserted little Olie, would grow up to be his sole solace and comforter, when his pleasure-loving wife would be seeking her happiness in the gay world. Often in the silent hours of the night, when he could not sleep, his thoughts would go back to the dear one left behind, and his heart yearn fondly over her. Often in dreams he would see her very ill, or in trouble, and beseeching him to help her; he would awake with the strong impression that something had happened to the little lone one. He wished to have Olie brought to the city, where she might remain and await his arrival. Aunt Rachel hurried off to see Susan. Uncle Isaac was to leave Olie in some safe-keeping, and join Rachel as soon as possible, for Susan was really alarmingly ill, and such was the rapid progress of her disease, Isaac might not find her alive. A kind lady in the stage, an old acquaintance of Isaac's   UNCLE PRANK'S LETTER.           93  mother, offered to leave Olie at the house of a widow lady, a friend of hers--who resided near the depot from which Isaac must take the next train of cars, which would leave in a few minutes after the arrival of the stage. Uncle Isaac left Olie with no anxious thoughts about her future; he knew she would be safe in Uncle Frank's hands -he was sorry to part with her now, but he meant to see her again, and then his thoughts were now absorbed by Susan's alarming condition. The name of the widow lady was St. John, and there Olie was left until she could hear further tidings from Mr. Brant. Mrs. St. John promising to watch the arrivals; her house was just opposite the Harwoods', but little did Olie dream as she ,sat by the window, who lived in the beautiful house with the large garden so full of flowers. Two days have passed since the news of Mr. Harwood's failure, yet the family knew it not. Ohe had thought often of Mr. Harwood's supposed sickness and possible death, yet she had said nothing to Uncle Isaac about it. He could tell her nothing more, for he had seen no- body who knew any thing more, and Ohe was not apt to com- municate her own, or other troubles to those about her. Un- cle Isaac might say, " it could n't be helped, " they must make the best of it," etc. Olie remembered the comfort he tried to give her when Charlie died. Had she remained at home, sometime with Aunt Rachel, little Ella's visit might have been alluded to, and Olie's mis- take accidentally corrected; but Aunt Rachel had been too busy, too much absorbed in her own sorrow before she left; to think of the affairs of another, comparatively a stranger.   "           O OLIE. The news of Susan's ill-health had banished all present thoughts of the Harwoods' troubles. Had Richie only been at home, Richie would have known all, for some strange reason she could keep nothing from Richie,-how much she wanted to have him lmow that she had left Aunt Rachel's; perhaps he would write her aletter yet. Olie sat by the window till the evening lamps were lighted and the shutters closed, wondering who lived in the pretty residence opposite. She was more weary than usual, and retired to rest early. While Olie slept so peacefully in the strange house, her young friend Ella in the opposite house was wrapped in slumber on her dear, little bed, as she called it. Her blind had been left open so that she might see the moon shining in till she went to sleep. Her mother had kept the sad news in her heart till that evening.   CHAPTER XI. THE OLD CURMUDGEON--THE YOUNG    CURLY-HEAD. "Soon all who now delight in thee far elsewhere shall have gone, And thou shalt pilgrimize through life unfriended and alone." CHABE "Well I let it be; through weal and woe Thou know'st not now thy future range; Life is a motley shifting show, And thou a thing of hope and change." JOANNA BALLUM MRS. St. John sat in her rocking-chair, mending her black silk gloves; Mrs. St. John was a remarkably persevering men- der. She was constantly repeating that wonderful axiom, "A stitch in time saves nine ;" and the sight of the smallest poss- ible perforation in her glove would set her to darning a long, long time. The more she sewed the more good-natured she would get; she was rather proud of her darning. Just as the last stitch was about to be taken, her dear best friend, as she called her, Mrs. Hathaway, came in. "What an odd- child that is," said Mrs, St. John to Mrs. Hathaway; ' she seems to think a sight of that little plain gold ring, and she will sit for hours holding that curious- looking locket, with the yellow ribbon.  She's dressed- in good taste, but then that yellow ribbon on her neck looks   96            OLIE. queer. I believe she thinks as much of it as if it were real Guinea gold. "I offered her the other day some narrow black-watered ribbon, which any body knows would look a sight better, but I could n't get the child to take it, do you think; and yet I could not get affronted with her, she's so gentle and perlite too withall, but there's no getting her to do what she don't like; there she sits nailed to that window as if she expected to see that famous Uncle Frank of hers walk by every minute. Yes, she is an odd child, she is. Last night Biddy said she was talking to him in her sleep." "To be sure she is odd enough," said Mrs. Hathaway, "but there is something very taking about her after all. It's pretty hard for a child like her to be knocked around from pillar to post; they need a mother's care, poor little dears. Sometimes I think if I had money enough, I'd take half a dozen of 'em to bring up, Mr. Hathaway is so fond of chil- dren; but then, as Mrs. Williams says, they might not be very well 'brung up' after all; but I know I could do better by them than some people do." "Who 's this child waiting here for?" "Her uncle, Mr. Francis Brant; they say he 's very wealthy, and thinks a sight of the child; his wife's rather queer though, rather queer she is; they say she never liked Brant's taking the child, and it's rather strange he did, she disliked it. Few people ever cared to oppose Louisa Russel before she was married, and I guess she's the same yet, if all accounts are true; you remember, Mrs. Hathaway, the old saying, about what 's ' bred in the bone.'  "These uncles sometimes think a mighty sight of their   v JA Xi AJ% ac LP a Diu U D iuN *  nieces and nephews, but 'tis n't very common though. guess Brant saw something taking in the child, or he'd never made such a fuss over it." "Yes, I suppose he took a fancy to her; you know these geniuses are apt to take fancies mighty quick, and Brant they say is a genius, he is." "Who do you think I saw at the depot this morning Fa said Mrs. Hathaway. "I'm sure I don't know," said Mrs. St. John. "Well," said Mrs. Hathaway, "I've seen Doctor Henry, just starting on his way to Havana." "Why, you don't say that man is really going a. said Mrs. St. John; ," and does he take that curly-headed boy with him? He thinks a wonderful sight of him, he does." "Yes, he had him with him  to be sure; he'd never go any where without him. I'm sure it was he; I'd know Dr. Henry the world over; and then he had such lots of baggage with him. I saw them just getting info the carriage." "What a queer old curmudgeon that uncle of his must be," said Mrs. St. John; "I presume it was he, for he always takes a mighty sight of trunks with him, he does; but it's a strange notion taking that child along, that young curly-head." "The doctor's full of notions I guess, but he's a first-rate doctor for all that; there's not a better doctor in the city." "No, nor in the State neither," said Mrs. St. John; " and I should n't wonder if he made a doctor of the child yet. Aunt Betsey will be terrible lonesome without Richie; she thinks a mighty sight of having that child with her, she does." "Yes, that curly-headed boy was Richie," thought Olie, as she covered her face with her hands. 1"Oh dear I 'lll never 5   98            OLIE. see Richie again ; he 's going far away.". Yes, he was gone, and has left no word for her. While Olie grieves about Richie's absence, the two ladies talk about their neighbors. They call Mr. Harwood, Judge; he had been a judge once; they express their regret in rather equivocal terms, and 't is a long time before Olie knows who they are talking about. Mrs. St. John thinks money is n't much use after all; she 's glad she has n't more of it, it makes such a mighty sight of trouble, it does. The two ladies whispered in the corner a long time; they had always been very intimate; they talked about Olie in a low whisper, and alluded to the Harwoods' in a louder tone. Anna, they say is a remarkable girl, just like her father and Ella is a general favorite. Mrs. St. John said Ella used to come over there every day, when she was very small, and play with her Gracey. Ella did n't know enough to be proud and stuck up then, and many was the times he stayed all the morning and played ; but times had changed since then. Ella had n't been there since Gracey went away, and that was most four years. As Mrs. Hathaway went out she observed there were a great many going into the Harwoods'. Ohe had been sitting a long time by the window watching the people going into the opposite house; at Mrs. Hathaway's last remark, she began to think that the Harwoods' really lived there. Gathering courage to speak, her anxiety over- coming her taciturnity, she asked Mrs. St. John "if Mr. Har- wood was really dead, she thought there were people enough going in there to make a funeral."   tUlBi X UNG CURLy'-HEQAD.        99 "Dead! why bless you, no, child, what's put that into your head? he's much alive as you and I are." "Uncle Isaac said," replied Olie, " that Doctor Henry said Mr. Harwood had failed, so I thought perhaps he was dead." "Why, no, child, he meant he had broke down." Olie looked puzzled still, so Mrs. St. John said Mr. HaEr- wood had lost his money and must sell all his fine things to pay his debts. Olie didn't say any more for a long, long time, but sat watching the people going in and out of the Harwoods'; she thought about Ella's little bed, and her mother's harp, and all the fine things about which Ella had told her; she thought it must be very hard to give them all up; she wondered if all the people in the world had trouble. It was some consolation to think that Mr. Harwood after all and Ella too might not have forgotten her, that the failing as Olie called it, was a very good reason why a visit from such a little girl as she should not be thought of. Ohe was getting the wisdom of years in one brief year; she was not like other children sheltered by a tender mother's caresses, she had begun to think and act to some extent for herself, and to form conclusions seldom attained by any but old heads; as Mrs. St. John said, she was n't at all like other children who could be amused with toys or diverted with sugar-plums. Richie had lent her books, and read to her, besides giving her a variety of information from his conversation. He had been highly favored with the instruction of the best of fathers, kindest of mothers, and the wisest of uncles; so in many things Ohe was wise beyond her years.   100           OLIE. Experience and adversity had taught her to be patient and to wait, not to expect her own wishes always to be gratified, and accustomed often since Richie's departure, to sit for hours alone down by the river, watching the fish, the birds, and the bees, perhaps reading some books, she was happier far by her- self than she could be made by any of Mrs. St. John's atten- tions which she would pay to other light-hearted thoughtless children. Perhaps Olie's small size (she was smaller than girls of her age usually are) made her seem younger than she really-was, to those who were not careful observers of countenances. Richie had taught her to draw a little, to sing some few songs, and to read the books that he liked best; and as for Mother Goose's melodies, there was no melody in them for her, though Mrs. St. John gave her some of Grace's which were full of painted pictures. Little did she know how much more thoughtful and com- prehensive the child's mind was than her own, in many matters requiring reflection and consideration. There are many who have no tact to win children's love and good will, who know not how to find their way into young hearts, hearts that beat so quick and warm, and so im- pulsively; and the more they try to fathom the depths of the soul, or to find out its secrets, the more that soul seems closed to all their scrutiny. Such an one was Mrs. St. John: could she have known enough of the nature of a sensitive child to sympathize with her, she might gradually, by watching the lights and shadows flitting over Olie's countenance, have guessed some of the workings of that young spirit. But, in her blunt way, she   THE YOUNG CURLY-HEAD.         101 had made sudden and abrupt advances to Olie's friendship; baffled in her attempt to attract the child's attention, and seize, not win Olie's confidence, she gave up hopelessly, with the conclusion, "she's an odd child, surely an odd child she is. I can't make nothing out of her, if she only knew what 's for her good, she'd be a little more sociable to a body." Unfortunately Mrs. St. John's first attempt at Olie's con- fidence, was a sarcastic, yet intended good-natured remark about that yellow ribbon, and that queer-looking locket, and a repeated, yet roundabout inquiry as to how she came by it. Olie prized both so much, now dearer than ever since Richie's departure, that fearing a long catalogue of questions, she had ingeniously concealed the fact of her acquaintance with Richie from Mrs. St. John. She sat silently wishing she could hear from Uncle Frank; occasionally looking over to the opposite side of the street, watching the gentlemen and ladies going in and out of the beautiful house. Long after Ohe had fallen asleep that night, Bridget heard her exclaim, in her dreams, Uncle Frank! Uncle Frank!" Dear child, she was hoarding up so many hopes--she would be so happy when Uncle Frank came  home, she would throw her arms around his neck, and never let him go to Europe again; how often she had wished she could have put herself in his pocket, where Mrs. Brant and Laura could not see her, or hidden away in his heart, and have gone with him wherever he went.   CHAPTER XII. OLIE UNDECEIVED--THE ORGAN GRINDER. Heart take courage, give up never I God will keep and watch forever, Ne'er from faith and hope then sever. Cheer up heartl "When our sails are filled with happiest winds, Then most we need some heaviness to ballast us.' OUT from the shadow the sunlight gleams-down in the valley lowly flowers shed their perfume-some lonely ray from pitying star ofttimes illumines the darkest blue of the gloomiest night-soft moon-beams play on the rough billow's crest-on the bleak mountain side the dew-drops linger. So, beautifully resignation gleams in sorrow's shadowy hour; in the vale of affliction the sweet flower of peace blooms, and when misfortune's clouds darken the sunniest spirit's sky, the " star of the unconquered will" gleams clear and bright; gladness lingers on life's stormiest biliow, and faith's pure ray will raise the heart sublime on "peril's desperate peak." The strength, made perfect in weakness, may nerve a child, a young and timid child, launched out on the tide of adver- sity to buffet with sorrow's waves, pass safely affliction's   OLIE   UNDECEIVED.        103 ordeal, reach the celestial haven, and win the brightest records kept by the angels. To Anna Harwood, life had always seemed bright; and the world only a place where love, and hope, and truth, and kindly deeds might flourish: and when she had heard it called a vale of tears, her heart had never responded to the feeling. She had been flattered without being spoiled, indulged without becoming selfish.  Unconscious of the influence she had, and admiration she excited, she was a father's pride, and a mother's invaluable friend. The change had opened to Anna a new world of thought and feeling and duty. She was no longer a child, one of a happy circle to be caressed. All her life she had been gar- nering thoughts, cherishing hopes, and weaving bright things in her dreams. A cold hand seemed beckoning her out of her ideal world; and now she had awakened to feel that every sigh she repressed, tear she checked, sacrifice she made, added to others' happiness, and might lighten the burden resting heavily on the household. As she moved about the house, in a quiet, calm way, mak- ing necessary arrangements for the coming sale, with the help of Margaret, their only remaining domestic, a faithful Irish girl, who had lived many years in the family, she was sepa- rating a few things they were to keep from the furniture to be sold, occasionally wrapping up some article of dress in small bundles. On a scrap of newspaper which she took up hur- riedly, she happened to see a notice of a sale similar to their own. It attracted her attention as being the sale of furniture belonging to an old acquaintance of theirs. Just below it a few words caught her eye. "Died sud-   104           OLIE. denly, on the 10th ult., at sea, Mr. Francis Brant, aged thirty- seven; he was long and favorably known in this city; his death will be lamented by a large circle of friends. "The nature of his death is not known; it was probably caused by some disease of the heart. Mr. Brant was on-his return from  Italy, whither he had gone to improve his health." Anna read this aloud, and Ella was standing near her. "Why, mother," she exclaimed, " that is little Olie's uncle that she talked so much about-poor Olie, she'll never see him again." "Poor child!" said Mrs. Harwood, " if we were only as we once were, how much we might do for her; but she is proba- bly still with Isaac Shaw, and he has enough, and will try and make her comfortable. She will know the want of no actual necessary. If Mr. Brant had lived, she would have been well educated, and had every advantage of a wealthy position. If he has made a will, she has been well provided for; but, then, many in tolerable health neglect doing so. It would save much sorrow if, while in health, people prepared for death, or any sudden emergency. Property, when left to the disposition of the law, often falls into the hands of the least deserving. I know Louisa Russel too well to think she will give any thing of her own free will, to the poor child. But Olie is young; perhaps she will not feel the loss of lux- uries so keenly as if she were grown up, and had been sur- rounded by them for many years." Mrs. Harwood sighed heavily as she said this, and left the room, after vainly trying to banish the thought, the painful thought, that every thing around seemed to suggest. How true it is that when we are   OLTE UNDECEIVED.          105 sad, every melancholy subject only heightens our sorrow and ministers to our sadness. Bridget, Mrs. St. John's cook, was very intimate with Mar- garet. Mrs. St. John had found her at an intelligence office; she was recommended as honest, sober and industrious; could do general housework and plain sewing; was a first-rate washer and ironer; of very good disposition, and very kind to children. This recommendation attracted Mrs. St. John's keen eye; she found that it was all true; and soon after Bridget's assumption of her duties, she gradually found the other help disappearing, and the work of various kinds left for her sole performance. After Mrs. Harwood had left the room, Margaret exclaimed, "And is it Mr. Brant ye say that 's dead-and sure it 'll be the death of the poor, little craythure-she 's been lookin' for him this many a day-she 's asking Biddy every morning, ' and will he come that day .' and Biddy says, ' he 'll be after coming soon.' Biddy and Mrs. St John have had a raal time of it. Biddy says she'll not be cook, and chambermaid, and waiter any longer; and she'd been off this very Thusday week, only that she's taking such a liking to the childer, poor thing; she'd see her safe intirely into her uncle's hands afore she 'd be after laving her with that spalpeen of a woman; she's getting tired of the childer already; indade she is that; she said at first she liked her pretty good, but she does n't much care about her; if she only had a hape of money she 'd be glad 'to fetch her up till she was a lady grown.' Poor Biddy has hardly a cint in the world; she 's sent her money all to the ould country; but she 'll stand by the pretty little craythure as long as iver there 's a breath in her body; and 5*    106           OLIE. Biddy is not as strong as she was afore she took the faver and narer in Mrs. St. John's damp cellar, and sure Miss Anna and the Lord will take care of the two of them, poor thipgs." Unknown to Margaret, Mrs. St. John had gone into the country that morning, leaving Olie to get along as best she could with Biddy, who would n't leave the child till she was safe intirely in her uncle's hands. Had Mrs. St. John heard the news of Mr. Brant's death, she would have thought the poor-house the best place for the child; she'd had her on her hands long enough without pay. Biddy was welcome to the care of her; for her part she 'd had enough to do with other people's young ones. In a few moments Magaret had taken the scrap of paper- carried it over to Bridget-to communicate to her the sad in- telligence. Bridget was much surprised and shocked; she feared the effect of so great a loss on dOie's mind; after talking it over with Margaret, she concluded to take Olie away with her into the country for a few days, and by degrees, if possible, reveal the sad news; telling her she had heard that Uncle Frank could n't come quite yet. Bridget had a friend in the city who kept house; there sl:e intended to remain until she could find another place. Sally was of a rather selfish disposition, but she was always kind to Bridget, and Bridget thought she would be willing to keep the child until something could be heard from some of her friends. Bridget was sure that so fine a child must have some one to claim her. If Mr. Brant was dead all the rest of thei could n't be dead too. While visiting Sally, Bridget had a call from a lady with   -OLIE UNDECEIVED.         107 whom she had lived many years, a lady who had brought her up, and who was very anxious to have her accompany her to the South where she was going to spend the winter. Bridget was sorry to part with the child; she threw her arms round Olie's neck and gave her a real old-fashioned hug, then turned away abruptly, threw her big plaid shawl on with a jerk, and pinned it tight enough round her ample throat to choke it; as if that operation would screw up her .failing courage. She seized her old band-box and walked briskly off saying, " be a good childer and I 'lll come again before the flowers are all gone, and I want to see those pale cheeks red- up again before I come." And so she left, not having had courage to reveal to Olie the truth that Uncle Frank would never come. When Bridget was out of sight she covered up her big honest face with her shawl, and sat for hours in the old wagon without raising her hea p Could one have seen be- hind that shawl they would have discovered tears coming thick and fast the more Bridget tried to check them; she was grieved to think the child's uncle had been so long dead and she had kept it from her, and gone off, too, without tell- ing her. What if Olie should find it out suddenly, it might kill the childer intirely, such a small, little thing as she was. Bridget wished the old horse would go back again, she would be sure and not decave the childer any more; it was the -last time she'd be after keeping the honest truth from any one. Just as the wagon turned the corner, it passed over a big stone, and the sudden jerk made Bridget raise her head--a little frightened-just then Mrs. St. John- rode by, she was re-   108           o LIE.. turning from the country. "Bad luck to ye," thought Bridget, as she rode out of sight, " if it had n't been for ye, I 'd not be going away off from the childer so soon." Day after day passed, and nobody came to ask for the stranger child. Aunt Sally made up her mind she would keep her; by and by she might be of use to her. She could n't turn the child out of doors ; yet it was hard for her to provide for herself. She had but one room, where she baked, washed, ironed, and slept. It was a room in the third story of an old house. Her greatest tribulation was a husband, who was not very cross when he was sober; but that was seldom enough. Sally had never been guided by her fancy in any important matter; " but somehow or 'nother," as Bridget said, she took a shine to this organ grinder, and he made her life any thing but harmonious. After having had a long spree, he came home and found little Olie there. He was vexed to see somebody there to eat up their bread and butter. He had threatened to go and never come back again; but, as Bridget said, there was no such good luck as that. He would spend his own money, and then come back and use Sally's; which she earned by taking in washing. One day Martin, that was his name, was more cross than usual. People were weary of listening to his old organ; the few tunes he played had become too familiar-he must have something new. One morning he called Olie up and asked her, in his gruff stern way, if she could sing. Ohe had a sweet voice, and Richie had taught her many tunes and songs. There was somnething in Martin's manner that frightened Olie, and she   tried to sing in accordance with his commands. He made her sing all she knew, then he asked her if she could dance; and so, as she had learned something of dancing, by seeing the ladies practice at Uncle Brant's, she had to display all her skill in that accomplishment for Martin's benefit. That afternoon he bade her fix up, and go along with him in the street, and take a walk. Not at all liking the appear- ance,of her rough escort, Olie slowly obeyed his request. "Come, hurry up, child, what are you so long about; you've had time enough to get ready to go to France." He made her brush her curls smoothly, and not spend any more time crying. She could smile bright enough if she tried; and when the ladies saw her, she must smile and not look so sour; he shouldn't have red eyes and a spoiled face. He seized his organ and off they went, down the old stairs into the dirty narrow lane, that led into the crowded thoroughfare, and passed on until they came to some elegant houses. He told Olie she must do as he bade her, or he would beat her when they got home. They passed on till they came to a large splendid house with a stone front; two little children were playing on the steps; and a little boy stood by at the upper open window. "Now   sing, child," said Martin to Olie in an under tone. He made her sing while he played a tune quite familiar to all Americans.  He  made her dance, and  then the children clapped their hands in great glee, and kept asking for some more music. They stopped at several houses, and repeated the same tunes, till Olie wished the night would come and oblige her severe master to go home. Her sweet sad face, graceful figure, airy dance, and musical voice, made the old   "O           OLIE. organ quite attractive. Martin bade Olie answer no questions, only courtesy if spoken to. Had Olie been a bold, forward child, the new part assigned her would have been easier to perform and more tolerable to endure. But she was naturally shrinking and timid, and, though a sweet singer, she had been afraid, when at Uncle Frank's, to sing for any one but him. Alone with him, if he wished it, she would sing all day long; but no other persons ever heard her-sweet voice, only stealth- ily; sometimes they would listen at the key-hole to catch the tones, soft and melodious as an Eolian harp ; yielding music only when swept by the breeze. And so Uncle Frank's voice in- spired her own flute-like melodies. Martin was large and strong, and his frame very athletic. There was a great contrast be- tween the slight, pale child, and the stout dark-featured man. He would n't call the child by any such fanciful name as Olie; nobody knew who she was or where she came from; he would have her called Mary Martin; people would know she was n't his child if she was called Olie. "What's the use of calling that child, Olie," said he one day, " it's some new-fangled name she's picked up somewhere ; mind Sally what I say, she's to be our child now; any how folks must think so, you nor I Sally would never think of such a name for a child; she shall be called Mary--Mary Martin; that's a nat'ral sort of name, the name my grand- mother had, poor soul; little she thought I'd call any body after her, but I will. Now, Sally, if any body asks about this child, tell 'em she 's ours, and has lived with her grandmother, till I went a few weeks ago and fetched her here ; and mind vou don't say any thing about that old book of her father's; I 'spect it's his, but I don't want her to know any thing about   THE ORGAN GRINDER.           " it yet; she can be of great use to us yet; by and by she can get some cold victuals in the streets." And so the children when she stopped to sing, used to call her Mary Martin. One damp, unpleasant morning, after it had rained for two or three days previously, he bade her go out with a broom and sweep the crossings of the streets; thinking she might earn a few pence for him in this way. As to her looking sad and pitiful, to attract the attention of passers-by and win their money, Martin had not the least solicitude. He well- knew her own   griefs had already marked her face with un- mistakable signs of sorrow; and so he gave her no directions, only about her dress, which he had as poor and mean as possi- ble, so that she might not appear above her abject condition. Ohe had seen too much of Martin's brutality to his wife to expect much kindness from him, if she deviated in the least from his orders.  She was afraid to cry before him lest he might execute his oft-repeated threats and beat her. One day they crossed the ferry which conveyed them to a neighboring city, where Martin thought Olie's talent would yield him larger profits than ever. They were seated near some gentlemen who   were busily engaged in conversation. One of them said suddenly, in a loud tone--"Well, if Mr. Francis Brant had n't died just when he did, that Moreton property would have all passed into his hands."  As he uttered these words, he heard a sudden cry, and a heavy fall! Turn- ing around just at his feet he saw a little frail-looking pale child, apparently lifeless. Ohe had fallen, probably in a fit overcome by the sudden and terrible news. The hope long cherished that Uncle Frank had been detained on his way, but would soon come,   "2           OLIE. was suddenly and terribly crushed; and in a moment the consciousness of her lone, helpless, and dependent condition, overwhelmed her. Nature, weary and dispirited, frightened and perplexed, taxed for days beyond endurance, and now de- prived of the only remaining consolation and hope, could hold out no longer; the heart-strings long stretched weroe quivering and almost broken. "Uncle Frank-dead! -dead!"-it was like ice to that little aching heart. Martin's fears were roused lest the poor little heart would beat no longer, and he be deprived of his gains so rapidly in- creasing. He tried in his rough way to restore her. The kind gen- tleman, who was the innocent cause of the calamity, succeeded finally, with the aid of fresh air and water and a vinaigrette which one of the gentlemen had in his pocket, in partially restoring her. She was carried back to Sally, whom Martin bade do her best to restore the child. She was making money for him, he could n't spare her now. For days Ohe was very ill; and both Sally and her husband did what they could for her restoration. She was constantly delirious, and in her ravings calling for Uncle Frank in most piteous tones, agonizing and heart-rending to all who heard her. Sometimes she would say "Uncle Frank, Uncle Frank don't let me dance, don't let me sing, the sun is so hot, my feet are tired ;" then she would stop a few moments, and sud- denly exclaim, "Why don't he come; he said he would come soon ;" then she would shudder and scream out, " where is he?. they said he was dead."   tl E U  AN   I N D E R.     113 The doctor said she had brain fever, that she must be kept very quiet, the room quite still and dark, and she must not be disturbed with other's conversation. She had a little straw bed on the floor; there she lay, for days, her spirit hovering between life and death. In the same house lived a young woman who took in work from the shops: one of her brothers was a waiter in Dr. Taylor's family. Olie's piteous cries had excited the compassion of all in the house-this woman had urged her brother to ask Dr. Taylor, who was a most skillful physician, to come and see the poor child. Dr. Taylor came: he soon saw that, the child had been over-tasked, excited, frightened; and her disease was caused by some sudden shock in some way connected with her Uncle's death, on whom, in her raving, she was continually calling. The doctor was a very fascinating man--his practice was among the wealthier classes, The sight of Martin seemed to agitate Olie very much. Even when quite still, if he came near her, she would cover her head with the bed-clothes, and cry piteously. The doctor told him to keep as much as possible out of her sight; and so -he did. His organ was put away; he preferred not using it until he could have Mary, as he always called her, with him. The children would ask for little Mary, and seemed to be dis- satisfied without her singing and dancing. So he went listlessly about with nothing to do; spending whole days in the streets, stopping often at ale-houses to spend the few remaining pence in his pocket.   "4           OLIE. While walking down Market-street one day, he was met by one of his old friends, who was a carman. "I say, look here, John," said William, "ye 've nothing ta do, ye may as well drive for me one of my teams. I'm going to drive out to Wilkins's farm to-morrow; and there 's a great auction going on at the Harwoods'; that Harwood every body thought was as rich as Croesus has smashed, and every thing is to be sold to-morrow, I guess at public van- due. Jones told me he was going to bid off a good deal; he 's just set up a boardin'-house, and he wants me to-morrow to be on hand with my team, to carry off things. Now, John, you're a pretty good teamster; you may take my place here, and I 'll go to Wilkins. I 'll settle when I com' back; I guess you 'll make a profitable job on't; I gets three dollar a day, and I'll give you the greatest part on 't." John was quite willing to drive a day or so; he'd rather be busy than idle. He had had dull times so long, he was glad there was to be an auction or something going on; foi all he knew, little Mary might lie just so a whole week. And so she continued for more than a week. In the mean time the doctor gave very little hope of her recovery. We know not what we are till change comes. Down deep beneath the strata of the soul, accumulated by long years, may be hidden a vein of goodness uninspired, and strength never elicited. The upheavings of change and adversity will bring to light the latent treasures-then good and evil as they really are appear: the one, sustained by that hand who delivers from evil; and the other, restrained by His goodness until temptation comes. sf ' f  *   Ek fs   * f    *    THPE ORGAN GRINDER.          115 Day after day had sadly passed with the Harwoods; and the thought of parting with their treasures was quite familiar to both mother and children; each, to hide their own sorrows, tried to soothe and cheer the other. There was to be on the morrow a public sale of furniture; and every thing they valued-most would pass into strangers' hands. The outer world was the same as ever--brightly the sun shone; hopes were kindling in many merry hearts; happy groups lingered around old hearthstones; household-fires burn brightly; but one home was shadowed--passing away seemed echoing from every cherished work, and long-loved spot. But oh! how dear to those aching hearts was every part of that dear old home they were soon to leave. Things inani- mate will often acquire a character and consequence from those about them, and objects in themselves plain, like some of the faces we love best, gain an attractiveness lasting and precious. While lingering in some dear room, where we meet kind faces, and hear pleasant voices, we forget that time passes, and the " hours fly by like angels." But when with pleasant thoughts of the living, are mingled more precious associations of the dead-and the seats we occupy, the books we read, the songs we sing, were theirs when we all gathered close to- gether on the old sofa, while "Shadows from the fitful fire-light Danced upon the parlor wall." Dear is the home to the living, sacred to the dead, where the past and the present are linked in indissoluble and hallowed union. Necessary to our being and happiness seems the old ;t   "6            OLIE. room, though it may be small; the low ceiling is forgotten in the high purpose formed beneath it. The undecorated walls are only linked in memory with the bright web of future des- tiny, our hopes have there woven; we have lived, loved and wept there; and when called by duty or necessity to leave it forever- "We linger while we turn away, We cling while we depart; And memories unmarked till then, Come crowding on the heart. Let what will lure our onward way, Farewell's a bitter word to say." But when wealth and taste have combined their charms, to render doubly attractive that home consecrated by a father's blessing and a mother's love--hallowed by a gentle sister's presence-the shaded walks and long-watched flowers, recall with painful fieshness the early departed, and when we leave, "An aged flower, a common tree, Are things o'er which we grieve." 'T was night when Mrs. Harwood paused as she entered the room dearer than all others, whose threshold years since she passed, a light-hearted bride, when to her charmed eye it seemed perfect, combining all that affection could conceive, or wealth and skill execute. There was the portrait of her only son, whom   God had taken to Himself. In the faint light of the evening, its expression seemed more than ever life-like, the lips slighty parted as if to speak once more. a I would that my dear ones might rest as calmly as when I rocked them to sleep in their cradles. How I would love   to shield them from every storm;" then, retreating to her own room, where she had often " counted the beads of memory's rosary," and looked forward to a future with a mother's hope- ful spirit, her dear ones ll enjoying the luxuries God had given them, in her airy castles, (for what mother does not sometimes build them), their career here was sunny, and their hope of heaven bright. She would look to them for society; and blessed by affluence, her course to the tomb would be calm and serene. "She was there alone, when even Had round earth its mantle thrown; Holding intercourse with Heaven She was there alone." She seated herself by the window; the odor of violets and roses perfumed the air; the boughs of the old elm swayed to the evening breeze; and. the stars looked down from their azure domes, peeping through the emerald drapery. Down by the bank was the placid stream where the " moon- light fell in silver lines;" and myriads of stars twinkled in its glassy wave; and there, too, shaded by the willow, was a plain marble slab, the green grass crept up close to it-it was a quiet spot-there rested her boy, the bright one who had passed away so early; whose cheek, flushed with the fearful hectic, then grew pale in death. How often she had rambled on the bank with him to gather early flowers; often she had shared his enthusiasm; from childhood there seemed some- thing about him unlike others. She had early consecrated him to God, and she had fondly hoped that he would live to be His faithful servant;  but in the autumn  hours he had faded with the forest leaves. //   "8.           OL I. ' "Oh, my darling, thou art safe; thou hast the companion ship of angels; no change can darken thy lot; no reverse deprive thee of that home not made with hands; but onward, forever onward, will be thy happy spirit's flight. Time can not dash the joy-cup from thy lips, thou mayest drink of the pure river of the. water of life; thou wast taken from the evil to come." Then she remembered the words traced by his pencil on the leaf of her Bible, the last morning he was brought out to breathe the fresh air. As they came to her with sweet and solemn emphasis, tears fell fast and thick. Although the one thou fondly loved is by thy side no more, My spirit still will guide thee on, and brightly hovering o'er, Will whisper when thy weary way is thick with trials strewed, Oh mother, mother, still I love; come to my bright abode. The mother knelt in prayer and asked for strength and guidance. There had she often knelt in gratitude for the al- most unmingled cup of blessing Providence had hitherto pressed to her lips. There, when she tearfully consigned her boy to his last resting-place, and grief's shadow lingered on each young brow around her, she had returned to his lonely room, and in tearful gratitude thanked God for the joyful hope and Christian faith that crowned his early departure. Returning springs and fading autumns had passed away; and now spring had come again with all her buds and flow- ers. Recollections fresh as yesterday crowded upon her memory, as fears of the suddenly-clouded future overwhelmed her. She prayed most fervently that God would guide them in " the green pastures" of His love. Sustained and soothed she arose, with a calm smile on her countenance, and reentered the drawing-room.   THE ORGAN GRINDER. 19 "Mother," said Anna, the next morning, "won't Uncle John help us 8 he is rich and can easily keep father here- must these things all be sold? Uncle John is immensely rich, and what else can he do with his money?" "Your uncle is a very peculiar man, my dear; he was op- posed to your father's entering into the 'business; and though he is a good, kind old man, unless you adopt the course he thinks best, he will take no interest, and decline all assistance. When once he makes up his mind, nobody can change him; right or wrong, his will once expressed, is law for himself and all who come under his influence.  He has written, offering no sympathy, and expressing no regret; but proposes to take one of you and provide for you.  He prefers Clara, because she was named after his oldest sister, who died long ago; he has always fancied she resembled her. "I hope she will be happy with him.  She is so gentle, so yielding, I think she will easily accommodate herself to cir- cumstances. She will soon feel at home in his old mansion; and, I trust, will win a place in his heart. He is a lonely old man; all he loves best are in their graves.  His is one of those stern natures not easily won; but a hold once gained is never lost. I am glad his choice has fixed upon her. Ella is too young, too sensitive and impulsive to adapt herself to so great a change: and you, my eldest, I could not spare you now. So we must part with Clara, but I hope not yet." , WIA    CHAPTER XIII. MOTHERrS   HARP. "Oh, we must keep the harp he loved so well, and guard it for his sake; And often from the silvery strings one tone of memory wake I Sing to those chords, in starlight hours our own sweet evening hymn, And think that he, too, chants it then with young-eyed cherubim." MRS. RMYANS. IT was a source of general satisfaction that there was to be another auction that season. The Harwoods had selected their furniture with so much care that it was a rare chance for all those whose sofas were superannuated, chairs rheumatic, mirrors incapable of further reflection. Tables could rest no longer on their tripodian pretensions; carpets could bear no more stretching and turning; and curtains were so hopelessly incompetent as to deserve their last hanging. Those who were in need of none of these articles thought it pleasant to go and examine them, as the most expensive were of foreign manufacture, and brought by Mr. Harwood from Europe. Apartments fitted up with taste and elegance, which none but the most intimate friends had ever entered, were now thrown open to the careless gaze; and treasures long prized brought out from their revered hiding-places. Among the groups gathered in the different rooms quite early in the morning to examine the article previous to the   MOTHER  S HARP.         121 sale, was Julie Wallace. She was alone, and seemed walking about as if in search for something. People wondered what sent her there. She had too much sympathy for the Harwoods to go out of mere curiosity; and she had often declared that she never would attend auctions; they were such perfect bores, to get people out so early in the morning and make them buy half the time something they did n't want, because it was so cheap; then there was such crowding, pushing, and speculating. Elegant paintings and beautiful specimens of sculpture at- tracted many lovers of the fine arts, who were in hopes of get- ting great bargains; as so few could appreciate them, or afford to purchase them. Mrs. Harwood's harp, a rare-toned instrument of exquisite workmanship, attracted much attention, and many were anx- ious to secure it. Anna had a beautiful inlaid writing-desk, which she valued more than all her other treasures. Some were there several hours waiting for it to be put up. Mr. Harwood was too honorable to retain these articles, which some of his friends advised him to keep; and in a few hours all was gone-all these household gods-banished by the rough edict of the auctioneer-going, going, gone-all, save the love that linked the family so closely for long years. The sun seldom shone upon a lovelier spot than the home of the Harwoods; and never did it look in upon more de- serted walls or sadder hearts than on the morning after the sale, when every thing tasteful and beautiful in itself and doubly dear by association, was taken from its old place to pass into strangers' hands. 6   122           OLIE. Dewdrops sparkled on newly-opened flowers, whose deli- cious fragrance -perfumed the air. There had been a shower the night previous, and the vine twining about the windows of the old drawing-room seemed to have gained much in beauty and verdure in a few hours; and was aspiring to the chamber window, Clara's favorite seat, to which she had long tried by careful training to coax its deli- cate tendrils to climb. Sweeter than ever was the song of the birds as they sprang from limb to limb of the old elm; which, hale and hearty as ever, was waving its branches in the wind. Glad hearts had often welcomed the morning sun as the beginning of a new, happy day; but now as he looked in with his broad bright face, he seemed rudely staring on the deserted walls; making doubly desolate each vacant room. The vine, which clung so closely to the old home, was only a touchingly eloquent reminder to sad hearts that they might cling to that home no more. Dirge-like seemed the gay carol-of birds to ears which could soon hear no more such sweet familiar sounds; and the murmuring breezes that played through the waving boughs of the old elm Nvere odly sighing a requiem along the chords of quivering hearts. It is a common blessing and little prized to dwell in the shadow of a loved home; by the fireside where gather morning and evening all we love best; but when harsh hands drive us from the spot, how longingly will the heart look back to its "Iost Eden ;" how yearningly wish for the morning greeting and the dear good-night. Dr. Taylor had just returned from his morning call at John Martin's, when seeing an old friend of his going in at the   MOT HER S HARP.           123 Harwoods, he went in just as the harp was put up. It was just such an instrument as his wife would like; she was very fond of music, and could play well on the harp. It was the anniversary of Mrs. Taylor's birthday; he intended to sur- prise her with so valuable a present. The harp was soon in Mrs. Taylor's room; she was highly delighted with the unexpected gift. Dr. Taylor had a fine house, but no child's voice echoed within the walls of his elegant home. He had buried seven promising children; the eldest lived to the age of twelve. He was extravagantly fond -of children, and was much interested in Olie; but was unable to find out her real name and origin. He had strong suspicions, from the confused manner in which the Martins answered his questions about her health during the past year, temperament, constitution, etc., that she had been with them but a short time.  John Martin, thinking if her real name were known he might sometime lose her and the profit she gave him, had studiously concealed all her history, and forbidden his wife to reveal the little she knew about her. Mary Martin they called her; but the doctor was quite sure that such a delicate, fairy-like little creature, intelligent beyond her years, as she seemed, even in her delirium, could never be the child of John and Sally Martin. So he waited patiently, hoping she might yet recover, and he could gradually draw from her all she knew of her own history. Hle had heard her sweet voice under his window at night- fall, and believed that it could be highly improved by cultiva-   124           OnIE. tion. Mrs. Taylor had sat at the window and wondered who the child could be, with a step like a fairy, and a voice like a nightingale. She was sure she didn't belong to that old codger who was with her, with the organ. When first called to the bedside of the little invalid, the doctor instantly recognized the interesting sweet singer of whom his wife had so often spoken. If Olie really was, as she seemed, a strayed or stolen child, accustomed once to kind care and fond guardianship, it was his intention to get her from the Martins-place her in his own home-and save her from those troubles which had probably caused her this severe attack of disease. The harp might yet be hers-that voice so sweetly plaintive in its sim- plest wayside carolling, should be trained and cultured- perhaps, yet fill his silent home with melody; when age should silver his head, and the " daughters of music be brought low." Once while he was at the Martins, Olie called out in her delirium, "Ella-Ella Harwood!" John and his wife looked at each other significantly; won- dering what the child knew of the Harwoods. Then some- times she would talk about Richie, and wish he could come back again. That night, as Clara Harwood tossed upon her pillow in feverish excitement, there was one loss upon which she could not dwell without tears. It was mother's harp-they all loved it; and when weary or ill, they had often been soothed by its sweet tones. Mrs. Harwood had herself composed music adapted to it; for which Charles had written words. The harp was so precious to Clara's excited imagination, it   M MOTHER'S HARP.          125 was lightly treating the memory of Charles to resign it; and no spot would seem like home without it. But it was a costly instrument, and she had no means to redeem it. Clara was one who generally succeeded in accomplishing what she wished. She was restless and uneasy until the de- sired object was gained. Her fertile imagination would sug- gest some means of accomplishing that which, to others, would seem impossible. No one knew why she went out so early the next morn- ing; but any one seeing her on her return, might have guessed that she had succeeded in her object, whatever it i    might have been. Carefully she put away in her little purse a roll of bills; it was quite empty when she went out, and now it was quite full of money, all her own. There was a little mystery about Clara after all; she loved to surprise her friends by some sud- den pleasure, and leave them wondering for weeks how she had accomplished it; yet she was so still and quiet, she was the last one you would suspect of having any deep-laid plan in her head. But many a bright idea had originated in that young brain. She had passed through the shaded avenue, lingered to watch the beautiful moss rosebuds just opening, paused to give one tearful glance at the marble beneath the willow, then, with a quick step, pursued her way. So busy were her thoughts, before she knew it she was ascending the steps of Dr. Taylor's mansion. She knew he had purchased the harp, and as he was a man of kind feelings, she hoped he would let her redeem it, though he had long expressed a desire to have one like it.   126           OLIE. In simple yet appropriate words was the object of her visit made known. "Certainly, my dear," said the doctor, " you shall have the harp, though already Laura has learned to value it. Take it as a gift from me; and the pleasure I have in restoring it more than compensates me for its loss. Keep your money, my dear, you will need all you have. Your father assisted me in early days, and I am happy in being able to do you a favor." A gentleman, passing the Harwoods that night, was sur- prised to hear once more the tones of the harp, and sweet- voiced melody on the evening air-Charlie's favorite tune the one that Clara loved best-called Resignation. Just as Mrs. Harwood was about to retire, she heard the low tones of Clara's voice, and the sweet music of her loved harp. Sweeter than ever seemed resignation; her heart was not quite full of sadness; sweet music was waking new joys from its chords. Closer to that heart she clasped her darling Clara, though she knew not by what sacrifice she had recov- ered the treasure. She felt richer with such touching displays of affection than when surrounded by affluence. Clara had made one great sacrifice; she had looked long and admiringly on the gift, the last gift of her dear uncle, ere she had the courage to part with it. It was only three weeks before his death, and just after his return from Paris, that he had clasped a beautiful pair of bracelets around her arm, and bade her wear them  for his sake. They were of great value and unique in style, and had been an object of envy to. many of Clara's associates. A few   al v J- Du a Dt a Kfr.   1 n   2 tears had fallen upon them as she laid them in the box for the last time. Accompanying the gift of the bracelets was a dear little note, the only one she had preserved of her uncle's. This she had carefully kept in the box which held them. Leaving the box at the jewelers, she put the note in her purse, and in her embarrassment, at Dr. Taylor's, she -had dropped it. It was unsealed, and had no superscription. The doctor found the note after Clara left; and it suggested to him the nature of the sacrifice she might have made. Going to the largest jeweler's in the place, he easily redeemed the bracelets. That evening a box was sent to Clara, containing Uncle Ed- ward's precious gift, and the wish expressed, in a beautiful little note, that Clara- would consider them some time, not far distant, a bridal-gift from her father's friend. To Clara, as she laid them away once more, the diamonds sparkled more brilliantly than ever. That night, in her dreams, her' bed seemed sprinkled with diamonds; and she heard the music of many golden harps, from which unseen hands were waking sweetest melody. As Anna entered her room that night, the thought of her lost writing-desk brought tears to her eyes; it had been the friend of her happy and sad hours; tears of sympathy for other's woes had often fallen upon it: and now, in her own grief, it was gone-no, not quite gone, for some mysterious hand had that night restored it to its old place. Anna seated herself before it, to write a business note, which her father had requested her to do, but her hand trembled too much: all she could write were the words which had echoed in her ears all   128           OLIE. day; and those same words haunted her long years after- going, going, gone. It was some months before Anna found out why Julie Wal- lace went to the auction.   CHAPTER XIV. THE SISTER'S FAREWELL. "They grew together Like a double cherry, seeming parted, But yet a union in partition. Two lovely berries molded on one stem; So with two seeming bodies but one heart, Whey could not rend their ancient love asunder." MDSUnMME S NIGHT DREAM. THE next day a letter came to the Harwoods from Uncle John, urging Clara to come immediately, as a gentleman of his acquaintance, now on his return from a long journey, would call for her in a day or two, and would accompany her all the way. The letter was very unexpected, and there was only time to make-a few hurried preparations. Anna's fingers almost flew as she repaired some long-neglected garments, re- trimmed Clara's straw bonnet, and made a mantilla for her traveling-dress. The last stitches were taken and the trunk packed. Nobody could pack like Anna; her mother thought she could get al. most twice as many things into a trunk as any body else. Late in the evening, in one corner sat Anna, busily moving her pencil over the paper. Ella sat by Clara's side; her lip quivering and her heart almost ready to break. The mother He               130           OLIE. was trying, in a very calm voice, to give Clara some advice about her journey and wardrobe; telling her to write them very often; but every few moments she would turn away her head to hide the tears from the " young eyes"' closely watch- ing her. Once more they joined together in prayer; and then the good-nights were sadly given. The two sisters fondly clasped together, perhaps the last time for months, it might be for years, was a touching sight; and as the pale moon-beams stole in upon the sleepers, traces of tears were on their cheeks. Hour after hour passed; and, as the clock told the hour of midnight, the sleepless mother glided noiselessly in through the open door and knelt by their bed-side, and there she poured into an ear ever untiring, "Her spirit's woe For these her precious ones, desiring 'His will to know.'" The morning sun shone brightly; not a cloud was to be seen. It was just such a morning as one would choose for traveling, the air was so cool, and the showers of the day pre- vious had allayed the dust. Breakfast was hastily swallowed --good-bys were hurriedly given. As Anna kissed Clara good- by, she put into her hand anote, wishing her not to open it until she was in the vessel which was to take her to Uncle John's. Clara opened her bag, after riding some time, and there was a beautiful cushion, with a harp embroidered on its deli- cate blue satin case; it was entwined with a wreath of roses. It was her mother's gift.   -THE SISTER'S FAREWELL.          1J1 Thus were the thorns of ill inwoven with the sweet roses of affection. Do what she would, after Clara's departure, Anna was sad; the tears would come, though she tried to laugh them away. Wherever she went, she would see something Clara had made or used. But she must not give way to grief while a mother's heart was aching, and a young sister looked up to her for comfort. This will never do, thought she-no, I must cheer Ella. Summoning a smile, after trying to'remove all traces of grief from her eyes, she went down stairs, and said, ;, Come, -   Ella, let's wash this pile of dishes-I expect you and I will make capital housekeepers yet; you can help get dinner; too; and who knows but one of these days, we shall eat bread of your making." Ere night came, Clara was sitting on the vessel's deck, and Anna's note was eagerly opened. Tears came thick and fast as she read these lines, hastily ! written with a pencil, Dear, dear sister Anna, they sounded just like her:- Farewell, sister, you must leave us: Would that you could longer stay; But your absence then would grieve us, Why should we your steps delay  The happy hours we've passed together Linger with their freshness yet; And your much loved form and features, Dearest --, we shall ne'er forget. Farewell, sister, thought is winging To that bright and sunny land Where the fragrant flowers are springing,    . at By the gentlest zephyrs fann'd;   132            OLIE. But though bright, the sun shines o'er thee, Round thee spring much fairer flowers; Milder breezes play before thee- Will they bring thee happier hours  Farewell, sister, we shall miss thee, When thy pleasant smile is gone, Ere the dews of evening kiss thee, Or we greet the coming morn. Then, when round the altar kneeling, Grateful thanks to God we pay, Oft will rise the burst of feeling For a sister, far away. Farewell, sister, He will hear thee When thy heart is raised in prayer; Grant His spirit, and be near thee To protect from every snare. And though dangers thick surround thee Till thy heart is fit to break, He will place His arms around thee; Sister, He will ne'er forsake. Farewell, sister, love is dreaming Of a joyous meeting hour; Round it sweetest smiles are gleaming- Fancy lends her magic power. Then a mother's smile may greet thee, And a loving father's face; While two sisters' steps will meet thee With a warm, a fond embrace. But ere then pale death may find us, Lay his signet on some brow; With his clay-cold fetters bind us- Make our spirits shrink and bow. But our souls he can not fetter; And, if Christ has been our choice, In a brighter world and better, We forever shall rejoice.   Farewell, sister! we commit thee To a Heavenly Father's care, Praying that His grace may fit thee Every trial here to bear. May His blessings cluster round thee, Wheresoe'er thy steps may bend; And the love that sought and found thee With thy joys and sorrows blend. Sister, may you dwell forever, When death claims you for his guest, Where the wicked cease from troubling, And the weary are at rest. Then, in those bright realms of glory, While our hearts with rapture swell, We will sing redemption's story. Farewell, sister-fare thee well I   CHAPTER XV. SHADOWS GROW     DARKER. "Make your good-nights linger; and make your adieus long and sweet, and often repeated. Love with your whole soul-father, mother, and sister; for these loves shall die l"-I}. MARVEL. JUST four weeks after the sale of the Harwoods' furniture, a dust-covered, travel-worn looking man stopped at John Mar- tin's door. He seemed to be in much haste, and had a letter in his hand. He had come from a distance and brought a letter from Bridget to Sally. Bridget had met with a wealthy lady who was willing to adopt a child of Olie's age, if she was as interesting as Bridget had described. Bridget said she was a " swate" lady, and would give Olie a good home as long as she lived. She was a widow, and had lost all her children. The lady was waiting at a house near Sally's and would like to have the child brought there, that she might see her. She was to leave for her home in two days. Bridget had written many kind words for Olie, and said all she could to induce the child to come and live with the kind lady, whose house was just opposite the one where Bridget lived. But Sally and the child had gone, nobody in the house knew whither. The family in the first story said that Martin had died in a drunken frolic; and Sally and the child had left   SHADOWS GROW DARKER.         135 soon after the funeral, and gone in the country somewhere. The child was very pale and thin when she went, she was only just able to walk. Sally's rent was n't all paid up; per- haps that was the reason she 'd gone away so still. The land- lord grumbled about it, but he could get nothing. The. messenger was disappointed in not find any clew to their whereabouts; and went away muttering to himself, "that it was confoundedly careless business anyhow to keep him knocking away at the old door so long to find nothing, nor nobody after all." It was strange-but it was true-for once in her life Sally had acted entirely without confiding in any person. She had packed up her scanty wardrobe and gone silently off, after seeing her husband, whom she once really loved, decently buried. The same day a box had been left there for Miss Olie Brant, and the people in the house declared that there had been no such person there; to them Ohe was known only by the name of Mary Martin--the little girl who sung and danced with the organ-grinder; they supposed it was some rel- ative of his; yet, as they said, she did n't look like any of the Martin's they had ever seen. The man had taken much trouble to find the house. It was about midway up the street, which was made up of odd- looking houses-large, small, old, and new, brick, wood, and stone. The street had been numbered, one would think, every time an additional house was erected. You might commence with one and go to one hundred and the next house would be numbered five; you might find several twenties on one side of the street. Had a box of figures been shaken down on the ,houses from some eminence overlooking them, the numbers e   136           OLIE. would have been about as regular. After going backward and forward a number of times, he found there was no such person in the street as John Martin. Curiosity or interest prompted him to explore a little lane which met his eye, and there, after knocking a long time, he learned that the Martin's had left. So many families lived in the house that no particular per- son felt it a duty to go to the door unless it was probably somebody to see them. And so, the big brass knocker had a good deal of exercise without any attention being paid to its movements, save when some thundering raps were given. The man had several commissions to execute, and his delay at the door, and promenading and re-promenading the street, did n't add much to his exhausted patience, of which he had constitutionally, a small stock. Quite vexed that he had all his trouble for nothing, he spent his impatience in sundry pro- fane epithets, and walked off after giving the old door in ex- pressive slam. He had an errand at the Harwoods'; knowing nothing of their recent troubles, he expected to dine there, and finish his business in the afternoon. But once more there was no response; vainly the man tried to get in; the doors and windows were closed-the house looked deserted-the garden neglected-there was nobody there.  Parting with Clara was only the beginning of that chapter of change through which the dear ones left behind were to pass; the last words had been spoken, the last looks given; the old elm, the setting sun, the stars, as they lingered in the blue heaven, all had whispered an eloquent good-by. The   BoH A U W U GOW  DARKER.       137 pale moon-beams had shone, for the last time to them, on one spot dearer than all others. The old home was deserted; the grave of their " only one," wept over; and father, mother and children were on their way to a dwelling among strangers. They were seated together at one end of a rail-car. At the other end, close by the door, in the only seat she could find, was a middle-aged, oddly-dressed, queer-looking, sharp-fea- tured woman. A pale girl was seated beside her, closely wrapped in a large shawl; there were no pains taken to get them a better seat; they were too plainly dressed, and bore unmistakable evidence of extreme poverty. The frail girl would wrap still more closely her shawl around her when they stopped at the different stations, and the chilled air came in through the repeatedly-opened door. One who had seen Olie at Aunt Rachel's, where she had plenty of pure fresh air, wholesome food, kind care, would hardly know her now-her eyes were so large, her cheeks hollow, lips pale, almost bloodless, her thin hands transparent, and colorless; her heavy, drooping lashes seemed to cast a somber shadow on the attenuated cheeks; the glossy curls had been severed from the finely-molded head, the hair was just curling a little around the arched forehead; a pensive, resigned, yet sad expression, lingered in those thoughtful eyes, and rested on the closely-compressed lips; the face looked not  careworn, but griefworn, as if some sudden sadness had stolen the light from the eye, and bloom, and roundness from the cheek. There was that about that pale young face which would make the thoughtful and observing look again, even turn and gaze at the child as she passed out of their sight.   138           OLIE. But many, most who saw her, said carelessly, what a strange- looking child! poor enough she must be, and half-starved, those great eyes look bigger than her whole face. Mrs. Harwood and Anna saw them get out at one of the railway stations, and 'wondered who they could be. Olie's bonnet was one that Uncle Frank had bought her, and was, when new, a beautiful little bonnet; but too costly and slight for traveling, and now much worn and soiled. Her own shawl John Martin had pawned for liquor, as it was worth more than any thing he possessed himself; so she wore an old faded shawYl of Aunt Sally's. Her dress was a very thin blue lawn, quite short, one that Mrs. Brant had bought at his request; and her shoes were purchased by Aunt Rachel at a shoemaker's some miles from there. They were large, coarse, and heavy, and suitable for men who had hard work to do out of doors, in damp weather. Around the slen- der throat, much to Olie's annoyance, Aunt Sally had tied one of her old red silk pocket-handkerchiefs, as she said, " to keep the child from catching cold." She was compelled to carry an old blue cotton umbrella, and a bundle tied up with a -torn handkerchief. "That child reminds me of some face I have seen not long since," said Mr. Harwood, " but where, I can not tell; that was a bright, happy face, but those eyes were unlike all other eyes. This face is too thin, too sad, too prematurely old-it must be a mistake of mine ; but 'tis strange any two pair of eyes should be so much alike. Who can they be? They're a strange pair." No officious hackman hurried after them, troubling them with offers of attention. They trudged on alone-the Har- woods could see them going along up the side of a winding   SHADOWS GROW    DARKER.       139 hill, the old blue umbrella over their heads to protect them from a few drops of rain which had suddenly fallen. The girl walked slow and unsteadily, as if her burden was too heavy. The cars were soon again in motion, and the unknown pair far out of sight. Little did Anna Harwood, as she gazed on the retreating form of the pale girl, realize how dear and familiar those large sad eyes would yet be to her; and that her hand would be the first to point those eyes upward; the first to plant a soli- tary flower in that lone one's path. For a few moments only was the attention of the Har- woods attracted by this singular pair-they were too much absorbed in their own grief and in anxious conjectures about their new residence. Mr. Harwood had obtained, through Dr. Taylor's influence, the situation of teller in a bank. It was a long time before they felt at home in their new residence; there was nothing elegant about them; nothing dear and familiar; nothing but the old harp, the only re- maining link of association's broken chain, the only vestige from the wreck of former wealth. Mrs. Harwood and Anna hushed every repining, and tried to cheer the heart of the desponding husband and father. He had seemed an altered being since his misfortunes; seldom a smile played upon his lips. It grieved him deeply to see his dear ones deprived of so many comforts-his salary was small, and they were obliged to use the most rigid economy to ob- tain the necessaries of life. Mr. Harwood's means were too limited to enable him to hire a house near that part, of the town in which he was en- gaged during the day. The walk from the house to the bankl   "O           OLIE. was long and fatiguing to one unaccustomed to walking far Rents were exorbitant; any kind of a house was difficult to be found at a moderate rent, only in the outskirts of the place. Without hope of gaining wealth or ease, he went for many months daily to his business. He was generally so cheerful and hopeful, that his depressed manner grieved his wife and children. They had looked up to him in their happy days; he had been the sharer in every joy, and had frequently suggested to them new sources of pleasure and enjoyment; he had always some kind sunny word for all. Few who had known him in his prosperous days would have recognized him a few months after his calamity; bowed down and pale, careworn, silent and sad, he went each morning to the bank, returning each night more weary; and there was nothing to cheer the fa- ther's desponding spirit. Too great exposure and anxiety had worn upon a naturally delicate constitution. Mr. Harwood had taken a violent cold, and was soon unable to perform any active duty. He grew thin and pale, would walk out every pleasant day, and in a few weeks, even a short walk fatigued him. By sewing early and late, daily food-was procured, and some luxuries for the desponding invalid. Tears would fill his eyes, when he saw his delicately-reared wife and children toil- ing for the means of subsistence, and himself unable to do any thing for them. Care and skill and watching can not keep forever with us those we love. They had deluded themselves with the hope that the mild air and warm sunshine which waked the flowers into beauty, would give new life to his drooping energies. Each day his voice grew weaker, he tried long to move   SHADOWS GROW     DARKER,       141 about and seem strong; but nature was too feeble for the least exertion; and soon the pillow was the constant resting- place for his weary head. Anna, like a ministering angel, hovered around him, watch- ing closely and constantly the wants of the dear invalid; try- ing, by frequently changing his position, to ease temporarily the severe pain which racked his emaciated frame. Some- times, while reading to him some consoling passage from the Bible, he would fall into a sweet sleep, and for a few moments be unconscious of his sufferings.  One morning he seemed quite calm; he had rested well all night; there was not that bright flush on his cheek; he complained of no pain. "This will be my last morning with you, dear Anna," he said, as she gently raised his head: "see how the sun gilds those distant hills; my life's sun is setting, but my soul will soon commence that immortal day whose sun shall no more go down. For your sakes I would gladly linger with you in this beautiful world, but His voice calls me home-meet me in heaven mother, Anna, Clara, Ella, all prepare to meet me there." Too exhausted to say more then, he asked for wine. Anna moistened his parched lips, and it seemed to revive him. For hours he lay in a quiet sleep, and when he awoke Anna asked him who he would like to have sit up with him that night? Fixing his eyes on her with a beaming, joyful expression, he repeated, "There shall be no night there; and they need no candle, neither light of the sun; for the Lord God giveth them light; and they shall reign forever and ever-and God   "2            OLIE. shall wipe away all tears"--here his voice failed him; he struggled hard to continue the passage, and Anna read with a trembling voice, " and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain." With great difficulty would he exclaim, as she read the consoling words of Christ to his disciples, Let not your heart be troubled-"Precious promises, precious promises." Around the couch of their dear departing father, the sobbing group gathered, as his footsteps entered the dark valley. Gazing on each with a look of indescribable tenderness, as if he would clasp them all fondly in his arms, he exclaimed, as if supported by supernatural strength, "Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil; thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me." As the dark billows gathered around him, he exclaimed with intense emphasis, "My rod, and my staff. Come Lord Jesus, come quickly," could the dear ones hear in a low whis- per. His lips moved as if in prayer, and then his poor falter- ing tongue was silent. Around their loved they gathered that sad and solemn night, In tears and sorrow watching the passing spirit's flight; No words their lips could utter, no sound disturbed the air; But silence, solemn silence, reigned like a presence there. The hours were moving onward, like unseen angels near, While hearts were lifted upward in earnest fervent prayer; Warm tears young eyes were filling, and lips were quivering fast Loved lips were uttering slowly their precious words, their last. Brief words of parting blessing brought to the sorrowing balm; On the pale lips was resting a smile serene and calm. The breath came short and faintly, the eyes half-closed and dim; The pulse was chiming slowly life's sad funereal hymn.   SHADOWS 6ROW     DARKER        143 The golden bowl was breaking, the silver cord unbound, And music's tuneful daughters no tuneful echoes found; The sleep that knew no waking upon life's windows lay, While on the soul was breaking an everlasting day. A rod and staff upholding, 'mid terror and dismay, Through the dark valley walking, the spirit made its way. The King of terrors conquering, it went in courage on, No coming evil fearing, no danger or alarm. The tender watching Shepherd the trembling spirit led, Till by the waters crystal in pastures green it 's fed; And there, no sorrow knowing, or anguish or distress, Fast by the throne eternal, there weary ones do rest. In agony, and with quivering lip and suppressed sob, they stole noiselessly about, as if a footfall might disturb the cold sleeper. Only a few hours since he was with them, deeply interested in all that concerned them; so pleasant his morning greeting, so affectionate his good-night, they had not felt that God would soon take him from them. Now the cold reality came slowly to them that the spirit-guiding, controlling, blessing them, was to be no more with them. Theirs was a " broken home." They could never again on earth utter the dear word -father; never join their voice in praise with his, till they reach their Father's house on high. The last look, the cold earth falling upon the coffin, the hiding away of the dead fromi their sight, all these and their utter loneliness almost crushed the widow and wrung with anguish the hearts of the orphans. It is well for the bereaved that imperative duties often de- mand that time and energies which else might be spent in   "4          OLIE. unavailing regrets; and the moments of the deepest sadness are often the time when most exertion is needed. , What could they now do? hands unused to labor must toil, and hearts aching must plan. Mother," said Anna. "I must help you; I have hope and energy; and God has given me some abilities which I can make useful. I had hoped we might all live together longer; but now, if duty calls me elsewhere, we can be happy separat- ed if it is God's will. We will wait patiently and see what tHe has in store for us. "Poor Anna could comfort others; but yet when alone and unobserved she would indulge in gloomy apprehensions and the luxury of tears. "What can I do"thought she. "The heart to which I have clung for counsel and protection is stilled-covered with the cold earth. I must earn my own bread, clothing, all. Not a comfort can I claim; not a cent demand from one living, human being. I have long leaned on a strong, manly arm; and rested in a loving, manly heart; it is all over now-others will lean on me. But where, or how can I earn money             to t"No gallant knight will come from the greenwood to pledge his life and honor to retrieve our fallen fortunes. Shall I sew . but there are so many sewing and so little paid for it, and as I have never attained much proficiency in that line, I must work with my head--but such a head. Did any one want an architect of air-castles, or a weaver of day-dreams, I might never tire of the occupation. But there are dreamers enough now--their remuneration is distant and equivocal; the fire of poetry or the glow of imagination can't keep us warm in chill December. I can do nothing to make my little literary stock   SHADOWS    GRO W  DARKER.     145 available, but to teach; that is a humdrum occupation, Miss Porter says; only fit for every-day sort of people; but I am now in an every-day world. I have the highest motives to stimulate me to exertion." There were moments when the thought of going forth alone to meet the smiles and frowns of strangers, and to come in close contact with the rough world all by herself, made Anna feel doubly desolate; as if she would gladly pillow her head with that dear, lost one, who had loved her so well; who had shielded her ever from  the least cold wind. These thoughts were rare and soon chased away-with the hope of doing something for mother. Anna resolved to teach; and, after writing a- dozen different advertisements, she selected one as the best-the most modest list of her abilities, and concise description of her " wants ;" it lay on the writing-desk-unsealed and unsent-for several hours. Meantime a letter came from Dr. Taylor-a letter of condolence and sympathy, offering his aid in any possible way. Anna resolved to write and ask his influence in obtaining some situation, where she might exercise her abilities and gain experience necessary for some still more responsible position. Strange as it seemed, just under Anna's letter in Dr. Tay- lor's box, in the post-office, was one from an old friend of his mentioning, among other things, the great need there was of a good teacher in their little village; and that in time a young lady of energy and ability might have a large and profitable school. Mr. Washburn, that was the writer's name, said, " his wife would n't let him rest; she was all the time at him--they must have a school." He said, "they were plain, old-fash- 7l   "6           OLIE. ioned sort of people; but the children were growing up, and they wanted some learning; and Mrs. Washburn had a grand-daughter living with her whom she was very anxious to send to school; and she had finally made up her mind, that if Mr. Washburn wouldn't write to Dr. Taylor, she would, and see if he could n't get them a teacher-and when "women get an idea into their heads, you can't get it out " so Mr. Washburn had written. "Well, wife," said the doctor, after reading the letters; "it is rather strange that these letters came together, you have so much to say about Providence, I suppose you would call itprovidential." "If Miss Harwood would be willing to go, the people of Elmville will be very fortunate in securing so good a teacher," said Mrs. Taylor. "I don't know of her equal any where; and she certainly could be no more useful in any place." "I don't know but she'd get homesick in so small a vil- lage, with so few literary privileges as she would have; but the discipline will do her character good; she is a superior girl. Laura thinks she is almost perfect." "I guess I'll write to her and tell her all about it, at any rate," said the doctor. Dr. Taylor wrote Anna a long letter immediately, giv- ing an exact account, so far as he could, of the state of things in Elmville; and inclosed Mr. Washburn's letter in his. Anna had made it a subject of prayer; and it seemed to her that Providence designed for her this field of labor. It was getting late in the season. It seemed best to go and commence as soon as possible. There was little   to be done. A plain suit of mourning was procured for Anna and her mother by disposing of a few valuable articles still left them. Dr. Taylor had inclosed in his letter a bill to defray Anna's traveling expenses, delicately saying that Mrs. Tay- lor thought she might just now be out of change, their recent expenses had been so heavy. The packing was soon done. Anna had packed a good many books. She thought they would seem like old friends in a new home. They were very select well-tried friends, and she felt they would render less cheerless the lonely room of a poor teacher-just as they had once graced the elegant parlor at the old home. Long did Mrs. Harwood and Ella watch the carriage that was bearing away their darling Anna. They watched it until out of sight, and Ella listened then for the rattling of the distant wheels on the pavement. For the first time in her life Anna was traveling alone; the carriage soon stopped at the depot where she was to take the cars. An old gentleman kindly procured a check for her baggage, and found her a pleasant seat on the shady side of the car; and, seating himself near her, pointed out some of the beautiful residences on the opposite side. He told her who built them, who now lived in them, and some amusing stories connected with the old occupants. Soon the cars stopped, and the old gentleman beckoning to a blue-eyed boy near him, said, as he seized his umbrella, "Come Johnny we are home now, there's mother in the carriage waiting for us." "How I wish he had gone all the way," thought Anna; and she sighed as she saw him and Johnny leaving the car, and   "8           OL1E. then jump in the carriage. "Oh, I wish I could see mother when I get out, by-and-by. Dear, dear mother! how can I do without her. I am all alone now ;" and drawing her vail closely over her face, she let the tears come as fast as .they would. Then she remembered her mother's prayer that morning, that "God would raise her up friends, and fit her to serve Him here, that every event of discipline or trial might prepare them for their home in Heaven; where, when earth's partings were over, they might join the dear ones gone before, and go no more out forever." "Fear not, I am with thee, be not dismayed," a gentle voice seemed to whisper in her ear; and she felt a calm confidence in that kind Father who had guided her thus far. Hour after hour passed; again the cars stopped: they were at the place where Anna was to take the stage for Elmville. Anna was soon riding through green fields and meadows. The fresh, pure air revived her spirits, and she began to be interested in the things about her. They passed through a large manufacturing town. People were hurrying to and fro; girls on their way to school, with books under their arms. Anna saw their bright eyes gleam out under -their white sun-bonnets, and she thought of her school. In imagination, she had already a band around her. There was the school- a large, fine-looking building, with two noble elms overhang- ing the entrance. Some of the girls were sitting under the trees, and others promenading up and down the walks. "How I'd like to take a peep inside," thought Anna. They drew on rapidly, and soon the town and school were out of sight.   SHADOWS GROW    DARKER.       149 At length the ride became one varying enchantment of mountain scenery. There were lofty peaks and over-arching rocks; here and there a solitary house, looking off on a world of landscape--the occasional and wild dwelling-place of some rude mountaineer. The road wound over hills, and by the side of forest streams; the trees now forming far off retiring vistas, and anon reaching their lofty tops over the travelers' heads-- while their ears were saluted by the delightful carolling of birds in the branches, and the rustling of the timid squirrel across their path. Then the road became narrow and winding; beautiful cedars grew up the sides of the hills, and the tall poplar's waving boughs might be seen in the distance. And so they passed through green woods, and over hills, until they came out on the smooth plank-road leading to Elmville. Anna was tired; and she began to feel that peculiarly un- pleasant sensation one has when approaching a strange place, and ignorant of the nature or extent of the responsibilities to be assumed, and knowing not whether a cool or cordial wel- come awaits them. Green blinds and white steeples peered through the trees. Anna raised her head; it was just sunset. Bright clouds lingered in the golden west; the cool breeze fanned her cheeks. How often, when a child, had she watched the sun's last rays as they loomed up, then shaded off into delicate touches, and died away in the west. Long had she watched them from the dear old window at home. A   murmur of calm pleasure arose to her lips. "Thank God the same  sky is o'er my  head-the same warm sun   150            OLIE. greets me here. I am not alone, but the Father is with me. "' Is not His voice in evening's gale? Beams not with Him the stars so pale? Is there a leaf can fade or die Unnoticed by His watchful eye I'"   CHAPTER XVI. THE NEW    HOME. "E'en what affection these violets awake, What lov'd little island twice seen in their lake These wild water-lillios restore,"' CAMPBELL. ' Every beginning is shrouded in a mist, And the traveler pauseth on his way, oppressed with many thoughts." TtrPPER. ANNA was to board at Mrs. Giles's. The stage suddenly stopped. "Well, I guess Mr. Giles lives in that white house yonder, with .them big chimbleys--I'll put you out there," said the driver. Soon they were at Mr. Giles's domicile. The trunk was landed on the walk, and Anna was once more on terra firma, to find her way into the good man's house. She knocked on the little green door. "Come in," said a pleasant voice. Anna opened the door; a tall and thin, sharp-featured woman was sitting in a rocking-chair. "Does Mr. Giles live here " inquired Anna.   "I am  the new teacher; I believe I was to board here.'  "I guess it is Mr. Daniel Giles, marm, down the other end of the village; I heard some talk of the new school-marm's boarding there.' As Anna passed out of Mrs. Giles's little front yard, she met a young girl carrying a large bundle. It was the same pale, slender girl Anna had seen some weeks before, while traveling   152           OLIE. in the cars. She wore the same hat, shawl, and dress; and then, those bright, large eyes-Anna would have known them any where, though they had looked out of a very different bonnet from that which she had seen worn in the cars by the interesting stranger. Anna and the trunk were soon back in their old places; and, after stopping at the post-office a moment, to leave the mail, they were on their way to the other end of the village. "La, me!" said Mrs. Giles, as she looked out of the door after the retreating stage, "I guess she must be tired, poor thing, she looks so pale-like, and is in deep mourning too. But that pale face of hers looks pleasant. I guess my Mary'll like her right well. I'm dreadful sorry we did n't have her board here." Anna was landed once more, and this was the residence of the identical Mr. Daniel Giles. This time a woman came out to meet her, and ordering John to help bring in the baggage, asked Anna to come in and take a seat, offering herself to un- tie her bonnet. "Throw off your things," said she, " and rest on this lounge, you must be very tired, and I'll go and get you some supper." She left the room, and Anna could hear her stirring about in the kitchen. Glad once more to find a quiet resting-place, she seated herself, and took a hasty survey of the apartment evidently to be hers. "Mrs. Giles has given me her best room," thought she, "' how white those curtains look on the bed, and that closet in the corner will be very convenient." There was a glass of fresh flowers on the table-violets and water-lilies tastefully arranged among green leaves. Violets were the only flowers   that grew in their city garden, and peeped up laughingly in the green grass at the dear old home. Anna had planted them on Charles' grave, and had brought them to her pale sick father when he was too ill to go out and gather them. Now they seemed to greet her as pleasantly as when in childhood she " wandered by the brook-side," and bent her head lovingly to their soft cheek. "Drops were trembling in their blue cups, and they nodded gracefully to the kisses" of the evening breeze, as it stole in through the open windows- "The young read Nature like the manuscript of Heaven, And call the flowers its poetry." Anna hastily brushed the dust from her dress, and smoothed the truant curls with which the wind had been playing all day. Soon there was a light tap at the door. "Will you please come out to tea, Miss HEarwood?" said a bright-eyed little girl. Very inviting to Anna, tired and hungry as she was, seemed the nice little table, with its clean white spread, nice rich cream, good fresh brown bread, beautiful large berries, new, cheese, and a fine loaf of cake in thecenter. There was much to tempt a weary traveler. Old Mr. Giles sat in his big arm-chair in the corner, he shook Anna's hand   cordially, as she entered the kitchen. "We are plain, old-fashioned people here," said he, " but we 'l" try and make you comfortable. We won't let you get home- sick." The tears came into Anna's eyes, as she replied, "Oh, no! I think I shall soon feel at home with you," but the tears 7y   154           OLIE. would come. Who does not know, how difficult it is for the stranger to control herself, when kind voices allude to her being homesick. The feeling just commencing, and which one tries so hard to stifle. Anna concealed her emotion; secretly hoping that nothing more would be said about being homesick. 1"Take a warm cup of tea, Miss Harwood," said Mrs. Giles, with her woman's tact changing the subject, " it will do you good after your long ride." "No, I thank you," said Anna, "I prefer this fresh cold water." "Well, the water here is very good, we think," said Mr. Giles. "That Croton water they talk so much about in the city, don't begin to come up to our fresh spring water; it is always cool and clear, and' we don't need any ice in it either; there 's no better water on the globe. When I gets up in the morning, I feeds my hens and chickens and puts the tea-kettle over the fire, and then I like to take a drink of this cold water, and wife she gets up and gets breakfast." ': You must go and see your school-room to-morrow," said Mrs. Giles. "It is not a very good one, but the best we could find. It is difficult to get any kind of a room now, there are so many new families coming in, and no new buildings going up. The young married people have to board, and sometimes two or three families are stowed away in one house. Poor Sally Martin is the only one among the people who has a house alone, and she has but one room in her house-a miser- able room at that." "How far is the school-room from here?" inquired Anna Harwood.   THE NEW   HOME.         155 "It is only a few steps from here; you can see the house from our front-door. Ellen, you can show it to her after tea, after you have been to see -Aunt Sally. Mary Martin said she ,  would come here to-day, and she has n't been." Ellen showed Anna the -brown house on the other side of the street; the school-room was only a little ways up on the west side of the street, and had two windows in front. "We 'll go and see it to-morrow," said Anna. "I think we 'll have a pleasant morning, the sky is so'clear in the west to-night." "Can I help you any now, Miss Harwood?" said Ellen. "Yes, if you please, you can help me unpack a little, if you 'll come in my room. We 'll move this big trunk up by the window, where we can see better. It is quite heavy; you must not lift too much. There are a good many books in it, and perhaps you havn't any idea how heavy books are when packed together. You may help me take them out." Ellen was soon busily engaged in taking out the books, all so carefully packed away in the top and sides of Anna's trunk. There were more books than she'd seen in all her life before. Grandpa's big Bible, Watts' hymns, Baxter's Saint's Rest, Fox's Book of Martyrs, and a little dictionary Uncle George gave her, constituted the whole of their scanty library, which were always snugly piled upon the old bureau in the kitchen. The Bible had belonged to Mrs. Giles's mother, and Laura regarded it with great reverence; when a very little girl, it seemed to her the greatest of all possible treats to sit by the table and turn over its leaves, and carefully examine with ever new interest the only pictures ever displayed to her childish   156           OLIE. eyes. In it she had seen just how the world appeared in a chaotic state, how Adam and Eve looked going out of Para- dise; it would take a great deal of modern skepticism to con- vince her in after years that Adam and Eve were never driven by sin out of Eden, when she had seen them going in grand- mother's old Bible; or should she be told by advanced geol- ogists or metaphysicians of the nineteenth century, that Moses was never cradled in the dark waters of the Nile; she would remember better than all their logically-proved assertions, that her own eyes had seen the little ark resting on the water, and a tiny head pillowed within it. How many times she wished she could grow up and have a Bible all for herself; then she could look at the pictures not only Sunday, but every day. She clapped her hands with delight as she saw so many elegantly bound books, with bright gilt figures on the covers, some bound in blue, some in green, some in red. She collected all having the prettiest covers, and with Anna's permission, was soon piling them up on the little closet in the corner. After arranging them to suit her taste, she would stand back a few steps, and see how they all looked together. Ellen was very happy as young people are apt to be when doing just what they like. In the bottom of the trunk was a little daguerreotype of Anna's sister, Ella. "(Is that your sister?" said Ellen, as she looked over Anna's shoulder, while she brushed the dust from the fairy-like face; "and does her hair curl like mine, Miss Harwood 8" "Yes, and her eyes are almost as dark as yours; you make me think of her, Ellen."   THE NEW   HOME.        157 "Do I? Won't you please let me be your sister while you are here T8  "Yes, my dear, and I'll not be lonely with my new sister to talk to. But we 'll need some paper to make curtains for these windows." Ellen said grandma had some paper, and she knew how to make them. "Where did you buy those beautiful pictures, Miss Har- wood?" said she, as Anna suspended one painting over the table, and stood the other on the closet. "They are views I took from our windows at home three years ago," said Anna; " and one is Dr. Taylor's country resi- dence; he calls it Glen Aubrey." "What a beautiful home you must have had, Miss Har- wood. I wish I could see all those pretty trees, and that bridge too." Ellen hung up Anna's dresses in the little closet, and as she unfolded one, there fell from the folds a nicely done. up pack- age. "Where shall I put this, Miss Harwood?" said she. Anna opened it, and found this note from her mother: "I have thought, my dear, that these curtains might be useful to you in your new home. You always admired them so much; they were your father's selection too, and you will prize them more for that. We do not need them here, as we have shutters inside. Windows in the country are apt to be exposed to the sun, and you will need something heavier than ordinary white curtains. Paper curtains I believe you have never taken any fancy to. Perhaps, as you draw them down at night, it will seem pleasant to have something to   158           OLIE. remind you of the dear old home, and your own pleasant room there. Within the folds of a curtain may be hidden precious associations. I said nothing about them when you left; I thought it might be pleasant to find them all ready to put up when you were arranging your things. How I wish I could look in upon you to-night. Ella and I will think of you every night, and a great many times during the day." "Dear, kind, thoughtful mother. I wonder if she ever for- gets any thing," thought Anna, as she unfolded the curtains. "They will make the room so dark and cool these warm days. I 'll lay them on the trunk to-night, and to-morrow, Ellen and I will put them up." Ellen went out and in a few minutes came in, lugging a large rocking-chair. "Here 's a chair for you, Miss Harwood, it has been in our room, and grandma says you may have it here-you look very tired, let me put it by the window where you can read awhile and feel this cool breeze." "Thank you, sister Ellen, it is a very comfortable chair, and I shall hope to have many pleasant hours in it." "Shall I get a light now, Miss Harwood?" "Not just yet, we'll sit a few moments without. Last night Ella was with me-she will feel very lonely now. Have you any sister, Ellen?" "Yes, I have one married. She lives a great way from here. I am so glad you have come, Miss Harwood, if you will only let me talk to you when you are not busy, and help you a little sometimes." "Well, I am a stranger here, and you 'll have to answer a great many questions; and you can help me very often, too--   THE NEW    HOME.        159 you have helped me to-night, Ellen-now you may go and get me a light if you please." "Grandma says, you are so tired I ought not to stay with you any longer to-night," said Ellen, as she came in with a little brightly-polished candlestick, with one of Mrs. Giles's candles burning in it. "I did not sleep much last night, I retired very late and rose very early this morning, and I always feel tired after traveling all day; but to-morrow I shall be rested, and we 'll put the curtains up, and then go and see the room." Anna had seen the pale girl with the bundle pass the house twice since her arrival at Mrs. Giles's, once when she stood by the window, brushing the dust from her traveling- dress, just before tea-and once after tea. Who could she be? Strange that she should meet her soon again, and at Elmville, too. She would call her the mysterious bundle-car- rier, till she knew her real name.   CHAPTER XVII. COBWEBS AND DUST. "The wind-tossed spider needs no token How stands the tree when lightnings blaze; And, by a thread from Heaven unbroken, I know my mother lives and prays!" WILLIS. "The time approaches That will with due decision make us know What we shall say we have, and what we oweY. MAOB=. AFTER breakfast Anna and Ellen were on their way to the school-room. Every thing had a fresh and lively appearance in the village in the morning. Men were going to their work, and children playing around the doors. On one side of the walk were rows of beautiful green trees. Anna and Ellen were soon at the room. It was a good-sized room, perfectly empty -the windows were ornamented with heavy drapery of cob- webs-and the walls looked as if they had outlived the mem- ory of lime. Piles of dust had accumulated in the corners. "A little less dust, and a good deal of whitewash, will be a great improvement," thought Anna, " and really I shall have to take down these curtains dooking laughingly at the cobwebs), though I dislike to disturb so much fine home-manufacture." "Let's see if we can fasten this door, Ellen." After trying   COBWEBS AND DUST.          161 in vain, "I guess the lock is broken," said Anna. "I must see about that. I should think by the looks of these cracks we will have fine opportunity for ventilation, we shall want some new panes- in the windows, too; the sun stares in so, we 'll have to put up some curtains. What a pity there are no blinds to the windows." "They have some very pretty paper at Mr. Jones's, on the corner," said Ellen ; "I saw some there the other day, when grandma and I went to buy some muslin. I will get some for you to-night, if you'd like, Miss Harwood, there is only one kind in the store, green with little white figures on it, grandma and I are going to buy some shoes." "Thank you, Ellen, you and I will have the room furnished after a while, and we 'll see how pleasant we can make it look," said Anna, as she looked around on the cheerless walls-"But who can we get to clean it?" "Sally Martin will do it for you very nicely, Miss Har- wood; she whitewashes well, grandma says. I don't think she's busy now, I saw her in the street this morning." "Well, we'll go and see her after we measure our win- dows, and find how much taper we 'll need." Ellen slipped out very quickly, and was soon back with grandma's yard-stick, and a chair for Anna to stand on; the windows were quite high and narrow; their dimensions being taken, Anna and Ellen were soon on their way to the little brown house where Aunt Sally lived, so every body called Sally Martin. They passed quickly down street, turned the corner close by the mill, and were soon at Aunt Sally's door. A pale, delicate-looking girl sat by the window sewing;   162           OLIE. there was a book on her lap, which Anna was surprised to find was a copy of Milton's Paradise Lost, a strange book to find in such a cheerless spot. It was the same pale face Anna had seen in the cars. Aunt Sally was in the yard hanging up some clothes, she soon came in, put on a clean apron, smoothed the front-locks of her hair with her hands, and stood waiting to see what her callers wanted; she was a pale, thin, poorly-clad woman, who looked as if she had struggled hard with care, and want, and poverty; her faded blue eyes shone out with a feeble light from under a shriveled forehead; her hair, from continued exposure to the sun, was bleached and coarse, and drawn tightly back above her ears; her brown cheeks were sunken and hol- low, and the very prominent bones looked as if trying to escape from the- wrinkled vestment that covered them--sel- dom a smile played on those withered lips, which for weary years, had drank "the bitter waters of indigence and sorrow, drudgery and neglect." She never thought of ease and com- fort; she must have food, and light, and clothes, and fire, and these demanded all her energies. The people in Elmville, most of them, helped themselves, cleaned their own houses, or had some one living with them to assist them; nobody knew just how Aunt Sally lived- sometimes she would take care of the sick; sometimes get a little washing for Mr. Judson's boarders; then she made yeast, and some bitters, which people called Aunt Sally's bitters, which medicine many bought when they really did not need it, because they felt so sorry for her; yet she never looked shabby, though her old frocks were well-patched. Her history was a sad one, she had been driven from her   COBWEBS AND DUST. O13 early home by the cruelty of a step-mother, who was a rigid Catholic, and very much enraged at Sally, who would attend a Protestant Sabbath school. She found a refuge in a distant city, where she supported herself by her needle, until a young German organ-grinder persuaded her to marry him, assuring her that he had several hundred dollars, that he was a mechanic, and was doing well at his trade. Sally soon found that John Martin's money and professions were alike counterfeit. By her own labor she supported her- self and him. The few pence he earned were not enough to furnish means to gratify his appetite; he became very dissi- pated, and would often demand her hard earnings after spending the few pence he had procured in the street. When affairs were as bad as possible, Olie came to John Martin's cheerless abode; when most she needed a father's protection and a mother's love. The worthless husband was suddenly laid in the grave, and Aunt Sally and Mary, for Mary she, had been called for some time, came to the little village of Elmville, whither the old grandmother soon fled for an asylum from her hard-hearted daughter-in-law. Aunt Sally was beautiful once, long years ago, and young, and happy, and light-hearted; but her hopes were dead, her beauty faded, and, like a living tomb, she dwelt among the living; nothing left of her former self but her name; 'in memory of" seemed inscribed on her pallid brow; she had no idea of the future, only that when death came, she could work no more. Nobody knew how many heartaches it had cost to get used to it, but they were over now; the spirit was chilled and still, and seldom beat the bars of its prison.   164           OLtE. She promised to clean Anna's room that day; to give the paint and windows a thorough washing, and the walls three coats of lime. Mrs. Giles kindly offered to have the water warmed on her kitchen fire, and to lend her broom, white-wash and scrubbing-brushes; and Aunt Sally was soon busy at work, preparing for cleaning operations. Mrs. Giles said the lock should be fixed the next day, and some panes put in the windows, and she'd see that Aunt Sally had some dinner. Anna did 'nt like buying soap, lime, sand, &c.; it was new to her, and had nothing poetical, romantic, or interesting about it. She had imagined a village school to be a pretty little cottage, embowered in trees--vines over the door-flowers peeping up in the green grass; but there was no such charm- ing spot to be found. It would have been pleasant, at least, to have had a room comfortably furnished. She had begun with the prose of a village teacher's life. She and Ellen had been out all the morning, and they found dinner all ready when they reached home. At the table, Anna asked Mrs. Giles how long Mary Lee, as Mrs. Giles called her, had lived with Aunt Sally?. "Really, I don't know! I remember Mary's saying her uncle died some time ago, but I've forgotten where, of consumption, I guess, and quite sudden, too. Mary says he died at sea." "Who was Mary's father?" "He belonged to a high English family; his wife was very beautiful. I have heard old Mr. Washburn say, that he saw her in church, years ago, when she was a bride, and he couldn't keep his eyes off of her. She sat just   O'BWEB   AND D UST.       165 opposite him in church.  Herbert Lee married her, and nobody blamed him for it, either. Any man might be proud of such a wife. But his haughty old father never forgave him. He' managed to support himself, and wife, and Mary Lee, till his death. He was the rightful heir to a large estate, but his cruel father never gave him a cent, and left him to struggle alone. He gave lectures, wrote books and articles for papers. He was a great scholar, and his lectures were very popular. Some thought if he'd really believed his father would have entirely forsaken him, he would not have so hastily married. "For some reason, I never knew why, Herbert Lee left the country, and I don't know what became of him; but some laind gentleman adopted this child, they say-Uncle, she always called him. "I believe Herbert Lee became so poor before he left the country, that all his books were sold at public auction. The kind-hearted auctioneer purchased one book-the writings of Milton, and saved it for Mary; and Mary has the book now. I guess it is all she has of her father's, unless it is that little locket. Laura pays she always wears a little locket on her neck. I suppose it is his miniature. "Mary, poor child, has no recollection of her father; but- she often talks about the kind gentleman who adopted her so early; Uncle Frank, I think, she calls him. She has such a sweet, sad face, I can't help but love her. She calls Sally Martin, Aunt Sally; but nobody could make me believe she was any aunt of Mary's. Some say she is really her mother; but I know better. More than half the people here call her Mary Martin, but I know her name is Lee, and so I call her."   166           OLIE. Mrs. Giles had part of Olie's history right-the copy of Milton which she had, was given to Mr. Brant by Olie's mother, and was to be left for her to have when she was older-Uncle Brant was to say nothing about her father until Olie should reach her seventeenth year, then she might know the book was his. Mr. Giles came in just then, and no more was said about Mary. At the tea-table, Mr. Giles asked Anna how she would fur- nish her school-room. This was a new subject to Anna; she had not thought she would have any thing of that kind to do. Mrs. Giles proposed that each scholar should bring a chair, and two or three sit by a small table, or stands, of their own furnishing; it would save Anna the expense of getting desks and seats. Ellen could take one old table, and that would do for three to sit by. She knew the girls would like the plan. Anna thought she would need a black-board, a clock, and a desk for herself. Mr. Giles kindly offered her his large, high, old-fashioned desk; it was the only one she could prob- ably get in the place. Mrs. Giles said, the only black-board she had ever seen, was the one they used in- singing-school, last winter; it was pretty large; if they could get it, perhaps Miss Harwood could make it do. Mr. Giles thought Mr. Jones might have one clock left.. Anna found on examination, that the black-board would accommodate a very lengthy problem, no matter how many unknown quantities there were. The desk far exceeded, in size, all her ideas of large desks. Mr. Jones had one nice little clock left, which he sold cheap. And so the prelimin-   aries of Anna's new profession- were being settled without much solicitude on her part. Poor Mary Lee looked out of the window as the old black- board rode by the next morning, on its way to its destination, and wished she could go to the new school. How Anna's old, proud acquaintances would have laughed, could they have seen her walking about the little village, buying clocks, and examining black-boards.  Yet powers were unfolding, which might be of eminent use to her in after- life. There was a novelty about her new duties; and then, thus far every body seemed willing to help her. Above all, this thought would often come to her mind-perhaps I can do something for mother yet. The next morning Anna went over to the school-room. It had, to be sure, no very classic appearance; there was cer- tainly no literary air about it; yet the windows shone, the walls were very white, the reign of dust and cobwebs was over, there were panes in the windows and a lock on the door, the black-board occupied its new position; it hardly looked as if it graced the sphere designed for it. The desk was rather grotesque, to be sure. Anna smiled as she imagined how dig- nified her petite form would look, raised to its utmost altitude behind its lofty dimensions. "I wonder what mother and Ella would say to see me perched up behind it, on my post of honor?" thought she. ' Mr. Giles had kindly put up -a little shelf, where the new clock had been installed, and was now slowly ticking away the hours. Ellen had purchased and made the curtains the night before, and had risen very early, before Anna was up, and put them all up. "That was very kind in Ellen," thought :  i    *   168            OLIE. Anna;l I "that was what she was about all last evening. I wondered why I did n't see her. Here shall be my kingdom, I 'll sway my scepter over young minds and hearts, they shall love me, and I will do them good. Perhaps God has put me here for some wise purpose." There alone, in that plain room, stood the young, gifted, and blooming Anna, rearing her airy castles, rearing them wide and lofty, of bright ideas, on the imperishable foundation of young true hearts. Most pardonable her dreams. May she do all the good she wills. Her name is erased, perhaps for- gotten in the circles she once graced, but unseen hands register the hours as they pass, and deeds, small though they be in mortal eyes, are written in characters of living light by those angelic reporters from the court above. Around her clinging closely, are unseen arms, ever near her invisible yet watching spirits. Wheresoe'er she roams or rests, a mother's fervent prayer follows her. She is panoplied in an approving con- science and a brave spirit.   CHAPTER XVIII. THE NEW     TRIAL. "Is there a joy on earth so pure, so holy As this, to pray? To nestle in a bosom ever yearning O'er us, by day; Whose nightly love shall never know of turning Or of decay." MONDAY morning    came.  Quite a variety of chairs and tables, of all sizes and descriptions, ornamented the room, which, with the lofty desk and enormous black-board, gave it a very picturesque, or rather grotesque appearance. Some of the girls had to stay at home and help, because it was Monday, and had sent their chairs as representatives. Bright eyes shone, and young cheeks flushed, and pleasant smiles greeted the stranger teacher as she entered the room. Her eye rested on only one familiar face; the light-hearted Ellen, who had been her indefatigable helper. Only ten young ladies graced the room. A few thoughts, occasioned by the novelty of her position, as she took her place behind the lofty desk, for the first time passed through Anna's mind, but they were soon banished by others of a different character. ' At  the commencement of every undertaking, she had al- 8   170           OLIE. ways looked to God for direction, she had often secretly asked His blessing on the effort she was about to make. Young minds have ever respect for those who openly ac- knowledge confidence in, and who openly ask guidance of God; the laughing eye will close, the musical voice be hushed, and stillness seem to reign in the air, where fervent prayer is humbly offered; duties will be more promptly done, commands more pleasantly obeyed. Anna knew all this, she knew that her own heart had been softened, that she had often been able to resist temptations by seeking strength from above, when the circle at home had bent the knee in prayer. She knew that, as she commenced now, she would go on through her term: but she had never, save when alone, raised her voice in prayer. What could she do? Her voice would certainly tremble, she could never finish, if she began; and that would embarrass her very much. She might read a chapter in the Bible, perhaps that would do. What said con- science? "Yes, there's a work for every hour, In every passing word a power, Do right, do right." So said the still small voice. The little bell was rung, a portion of the Bible read, and in faith and simplicity a fervent prayer offered. Her voice at first was weak and tremulous, but it grew strong; and ere she closed she had forgotten the presence of any but God, as she earnestly implored his blessing that the duties might be mutually profitable, that both teacher and pupils might learn daily lessons, and become meek disciples of the great   * I Na .N GW TR'I A L      171 Teacher. The consciousness of duty done gave Anna hap. piness. "And though all trembling was her spirit's offering, Peace met her there." She was enabled to commence her duties hopefully, with a firm confidence that she would be assisted in adopting the best plan for the improvement of her charge. She felt that it- was her first object to find out how much her pupils already knew, how much they were capable of knowing, and the best way to learn it. The first day was spent in examining and classifying. The girls had brought a variety of books, and there were as many different Arithmetics, Geographies, and Histories, as there were scholars. Anna was puzzled to know how to classify them.   The girls all said " they had so many books in the house now, father would n't buy any more; they must use up their old ones." So she classified them as well as she could, though in most of the studies she was obliged to hear each one separately. This was a  difficulty she had not an- ticipated, such a great variety of text-books. She would wait and see, and perhaps gradually she could make a change. Anna became a little discouraged as day after day passed, and she wasted all her time, energies, and resources on so few. She was too proud to solicit patronage, and in the country every thing new increases very gradually. While she was untiring in her efforts for their improve- ment, unknown to her, her little band were doing much by their enthusiastic reports of the new teacher; how kind she was, how patient, how much she told them they never knew   172           O LIE. before: they never saw any body like her; they guessed if tn, girls who didn't come, could only be there one day, you would n't get them to stay away, etc. Children have wonderful influence over old heads, and wise ones too, and they always influence those of their own age. They don't go to work philosophically, and give very strong logical reasons for things; but they gain their wishes and accomplish their ends, by stealing into the heart; the heart which, after all, governs the words and deeds of most all the world; and in a few days, nearly all the fathers and mothers, sisters and brothers, dwelling in those village homes, knew and respected Anna, perhaps I may say loved her out- right; because dwelling with them or near them, were warm, young, grateful hearts speaking so eloquently in her praise. Weeks passed, and Anna was the presiding genius of a realm of thirty-five loyal, devoted subjects; the room was now quite furnished with tables and chairs, and illumined by bright eyes. How Anna loved them, and the people too were so kind. Some of the girls sewed late at night, that they might be early at school the next morning. How their eyes would gleam as some new idea beamed upon them! and their voice thrill with pleasure with the ready response-Yes, I understand--when some difficult problem had been clearly demonstrated. There were three very lively who, for a time, sat together in the comer, on fun and mischief bent. Anna called them her three stars of the mischief magnitude; there was no keeping three such girls together; their mirth was conta- gious, and Anna soon decided to place them in different cor- ners of the room, lest their orbits being so very eccentric, they   THE NEW   TRIAL.         173 might deviate from the circle of harmony and propriety, in which she, as the controlling center, wished all to move. These wandering stars became soon quite fixed in their habits of order and regularity, and none were more attached to Anna, or dreaded more to incur her displeasure. Without reading them any long list of rules, or enforcing any severe penalties, there was no lawlessness among Anna's subjects. They were not afraid of her, no, they only were aftaid to displease her; yet she never checked the smile, or sought to lengthen their sunny faces, by oft-repeated rebukes. Very often, when they looked dull or tired, she would send them all out in the fiesh air a few moments. One night as Anna returned from school, she met Mary Lee. She had a basket on her arm, in which were some collars for Aunt Sally to do up. She looked sad, and some- thing in her appearance attracted Anna's sympathy. Mary's face wore that troubled expression betraying a painful con- sciousness of observation; she knew too well that her old bon- net was conspicuously large and awkward, that her shoes had the same defect, that her dress was short-waisted, faded, and unbecoming; and her sensitive nature really had an exag- gerated impression of her appearance, awkward as it was. The people of Elmville had seen her so often, it did not ex- cite her now as much as once, to meet them, but very painful were the apprehensions she felt whenever she met a new face. She was quite sure a stranger would ridicule her awkward dress. Even Anna's kind face could not remove these appre- hensions. Mary would, could she have done so, avoided meet- ing her, by crossing to the opposite side. "Who's that?" said a strange gentleman, only one week before, who passed   174           OL1E. through the village on business, and who chanced to see Mary walking in the street; "one of the graces dressed in that costume would be a good scarecrow for a cornfield." Acting from one of those impulses which often led her on un, consciously, Anna stopped and addressed her: "How do you do to-night, Mary?" "Quite well, to-night," said Mary, blushing, " only a little tired, though, as I have walked some distance." "Does walking fatigue you, Mary?" "Sometimes; if I have pain in my side, I get tired very easily." "Perhaps you sit too much, Mary; you lean over that work too long, I'm afraid." Anna had reached Mrs. Giles's door. "Come in a few mo- ments and rest," said she to Mary; " you have some distance to walk yet, and then you can get home before dark." Mary followed Anna into her pleasant room; her eyes were instantly attracted to the paintings on the wall. "Do you like to look at paintings, Mary?" said Anna. ( Oh, yes; very much. And it is very long since I have seen any; Uncle Frank used to have so many beautiful ones, some of them he made himself, and some he brought from Italy; they hung up in the library. When I was a very little girl he used to hold me up to look at them to see the little boats on the water." "Did you ever try to draw any, Mary?" "Sometimes, I did; Uncle Frank gave me a book full of printed pictures, and I would make some like them on a little white slate; once when we took a long walk together, he showed me how to draw a real house that was up on the hill;   I made the chimneys and all, but I have forgotten all about it now, I was just trying to shade a little when he went away." ( Have you tried to sketch any lately, Mary?" "Oh, no. I 've no paper, and no pencils, and I have for- gotten all I knew once." "Would you like to learn to draw, Mary?" "' Oh, yes, very much."?' "Well, I have a class that come every Saturday morning; you come and try too, perhaps you can go on with them, they are beginning, and if you come now you may be able to finish a picture with the others." "Thank you, thank you, I shall be very glad to do so." "Do you like to read, Mary?" "I like to read very much, but I have no book, and Aunt Sally says it's a waste of money when people have so little, to buy any." '"Perhaps I have something you would like to read; while I look over these compositions, you may look on the table and see if there is any book you would like to take home with you:' Mary looked at them all, her fine eyes sparkled with pleasure, as if familiar and pleasant associations were being awakened. "May I take this, Miss Harwood?" said she, holding up a book, which Anna saw, to her surprise, was a copy of Tele- maque. "(Can you read that?" said she, surprised at her choice. "Yes, I think I can read a little in it," said Mary'; "I would like to try. Uncle Frank spoke French very well. His mother was a French lady, and he often talked to her in that   176           OLIE. language. He had little time to devote to me, yet he taught me many phrases, and some of the verbs. I read a number of fables too, with him; and a mouth before he went away I commenced translating Telemaque, and I became very much interested in the story. Whenever he was sick he would have me come and sit close by him and translate every day. Just a week before he went away I read two or three pages." Here Mary paused; she was overcome by her feelings. Anna told her she might take her dictionary too, and when she came on Saturday she would hear her translate; and if there were any words she could not understand she might mark them. Mary looked her gratitude as she rose to go. "I am very much obliged to you, Miss Harwood," said she, "it is so long since I have tried to learn any thing, I fear you will find me very dull." Mary's heart beat lighter than it had for months. "Oh I can learn something noq," thought she, " and perhaps, if I try very hard, I may yet be a teacher and do something for myself. I get so tired sewing on those old pants so long; and then I can't earn but a few cents a day; and that only once in a while. How I wish Uncle Frank could see what a kind friend. I have found. Poor, dear, Uncle Frank, I wonder if he ever sees me now. When I look up and see those beautiful stars come out one by one, I think perhaps his home is there. God has not quite forgotten me. Perhaps He may have given me this new friend; but there is Aunt Sally coming, she will think I have been gone a great while." Aunt Sally was at first a little angry at Mary for staying so long; but she was pleased that the new teacher had shown her so much attention.   THE NEW   TRIAL.         1" Mary devoted all her leisure time to her new lesson; some of the words looked like old friends she had not seen for years; and tears fell fast when she found the last page she had read with Uncle Frank. "There is something very interesting about that girl," thought Anna.  "She deserves a better position; and if she had opportunity, I think, would make a fine scholar.' She con- verses well, too. I wonder if Aunt Sally is kind to her, she certainly can not appreciate her. She seems very sensitive; how the color came and went as she talked of her uncle I I suppose she has very little time to read or study; but she learns easily, if I can judge by the quick glance of her eye and her ready answer. She ought to be very careful of that side, I am afraid she draws too much water for her aunt. How much she reminds me of sister Ella. I wonder what she would do in her place. I 'm going to see that aunt of hers, and some- times I 'll have Mary bring her work and sit with me after school; maybe it will do her good to talk about her uncle and her old home." Mary's fingers flew faster than ever the next day; she had a new motive for exertion-work was soon finished, and the book eagerly taken, and at first it was quite difficult; but soon she succeeded very well, and became interested in the story. It may seem strange that one so young as Olie should have read in Telemaque; but Uncle Frank had never sent her to school, or taught her systematically-he did n't believe in chil- dren's being taught much friom books early; he let them learn by conversation, observation, and experience. Mary had never been taught by him one principle of gram- mar or rule in arithmetic; but he was very much gratified 8*   178           OLIE. and amused one day, by the extreme readiness and facility with which she had learned a few French words; those which she had heard used in conversation at his house; so one day, to test her powers of acquirement, he taught her a little French orally. After that she teased him every day to teach her some more French. He taught her the principal verbs; and to read the French fables; and before he sailed for England she had read two or three pages in Telemaque. Some thought her ignorant; a schoolmaster might call her a real dunce, because she had never learned -the multi- plication table, or done a sum in long division in all her life; yet Uncle Isaac said there was no cheating her in making change; she could read like a minister, sing like a nightin- gale, dance like a fairy, and talk like a book. Uncle Frank had told her stories from history, for which she had very great fondness; in this desultory way she had ac- quired much historical information. There was so much ease and elegance in Uncle Frank's manner and conversation, that any active, intelligent child constantly with him, and looking up to him alone for protection and tenderness, would natur- ally daily increase in intelligence and refinement. It was a long time since Ohe had been under his influence; very new and strange seemed the school through which she had recently passed with John Martin's severe lessons-and Aunt Sally's habitual fault-finding. Poor child, she had nmuc to learn.   CHAPTER XIX. PROFESSIONAL CALLS. "They were but callans At grammar, logic and sic talents, They took nao pains their speech to balance Or rules to gie, But spake their thoughts in plain braid Lallians, Like you or me."           BMNS. ANNA -wrote her mother a long letter, telling her about her journey, kind reception, getting the school-room ready, etc., closing by giving a description of her professional calls, from which we make a short extract. "My first call was from  Mr. Jones, a tall and large and good-natured looking man; he said he 'wanted to put his daughter to school; he guessed she warn't very forward, she hadn't been well, she'd always been kinder ailin', and her mother had kept her to hum a good spell, but all the rest of the neighbors' gals was goin, and she wanted to go too; and, for his-part, he'd as lief she would go as not, but he didn't want her to study much, not mor'n one or two lessons, besides writin' and cipherin'; books did n't seem to agree with her;   80           o0 L I E. he didn't thiLk she could be kept still very long, either, she warn't used to it; they kept her doing up a few chores to hum, and such like; when she was a little girl, she fell off the apple-tree and hurt her head, and she'd had a good deal of headache since; but he'd send her along bright and early next Monday morning, and see how she'd stand it; he s'posed I would n't ask any thing if she could n't get along.' "So saying, he, after asking me to come out and see 'our folks,' bid me ' good-day.' "Then Mr. Brown drove up in a large two-horse wagon, and knocked on my door with his big whip. "' Are you the new schoolmarm ' said he, as I opened the door, looking at me as if it could n't be possible that so small a body as I could be the schoolmarm. "' Well, I have two girls I want to send. The eldest, I take it is quite a smart girl; I can't spare her but a little while, and I want her to learn a good deal; she must be home by killing time. Her mother thinks she can take six or seven studies; women know more about these things than I do. I want you to be very strict with her, and keep her straight. My young- est girl, I guess, will take to learning very well; but she ain't quite as quick as Sally. She can study a good many things though. I want to get my money's worth. There's no use in keeping girls to school always. I want 'em to learn a good deal while they go, and make quick work of it. I s'pose you 'll take 'em very cheap, since there's two on 'em-times is hard and money 's scarce.' I told him my price was very low, and so many would probably send two, I could make no change for him; that there were scholars whose. parents couldn't sfford to pay any thing, who were very anxious to learn, those   I should take free; but for those who could afford to pay, I should ask but one price. "After trying to get me to take off half a dollar, he left, saying, 'he would talk with Mrs. Brown ab6ut it.' "I could n't help wondering who'd come next. This time it was a woman. She had heard of the school, and thought of sending her little girl. She was an only daughter, and so far, she had educated her herself. She wanted her ' to pay particular attention to a very few branches, not to study arith- metic at all; she was now very quick at figures, and she thought there was no use in young girls studying grammar, they never understood it; it was only waste time. She supposed, of course, I paid particular attention to the girls' manners.' She had a history in her hand, which she studied when she was a girl; she wanted her daughter to study that; she would like to have me give her very long lessons, and after urging me to call upon her, she left. "Next came an old lady-old Mrs. Allen-a kind, moth- erly-looking woman. Her little grand-daughter was with her, and she wanted her to begin school next day. All she wanted her little girl to learn, was 'to write a good hand, and get enough of arithmetic to keep accounts,' and 'grammar she thought a great deal of; she wanted Jane to parse every day. She thought that was all the learning she'd want, as she never expected to teach for a living.' "In a little while after, came Mr. Harding. I liked his ap- pearance very much. There was a vein of good sense and kind feeling in all he said, and through all, I could see a father's warm heart. I suppose his daughter had been placed in not the best boarding-school. I think, if I remember the name, it   182           OLIE. was Miss Pyncheon's. 'She had been away to school,' he said, 'two years, and got her head full of new-fangled notions; and he 'd put his foot down that she should n't go any longer. All she wanted to do was to play on the piano, and dance those gimcracks; he believed she called thempokers. She thought she knew more than all the rest of them together, and she cried the other day, because they did not have silver forks on the table, when a friend from the city came to dine with them; some city spark of a dandy she 'd picked up at school, he sup- posed. She'd filled her sister's head with all sorts of notions too; kept at her all the time, because she did n't walk just so, talk just so, and act just so. As for his. part, he did n't see but she acted well enough; he liked to see a little of nature left. Before Charlotte went to school,' he said, 'she was a modest, pretty, contented girl; they really thought they could'nt do without her any way, she was so much help to her mother; but now, she had so many airs, there was no living in peace where she was; and after all the money he had spent, he did n't see as she had learned any thing, only to be ashamed of her old father and mother.' He said, I he 'd give twice the money he had spent, to get all the kinks out of her head, and if I could make a good sensible woman of her, I should have an old man's thanks; and he could have some prospect of a happy home. Lottie,' he said, 'was always his favorite ; and he believed she had the elements in her of a useful woman, if some one could have a good influence over her. "Finally came Mr. Harris, a plain, sensible man, who wanted to put his daughter under my care; I he thought she was an intelligent girl, but her advantages had been very   r - u4 1' 4 i: J. 1 .N A Lo a A L L 8 *  limited; she had a strong desire to learn, and I could manage her studies as I thought best; he had perfect confidence in my judgment; he hoped I would find her a pleasant and atten- tive scholar; she was a faithful daughter.' When he left, he cordially invited me to visit him; he would give me farmer's cheer: he said Mrs. Harris wanted to see me, but she was sick now; she said ' she thought God had sent me here, and she hoped I would not be discouraged.' "Who do you think was one of the first faces I saw after my arrival here? It was the little pale-faced girl we saw in the cars; I have seen her many times since; tell Ella that poorly-clad, emaciated young stranger, was the Olie about whom she talked so much; she is living here with an old washerwoman, whom we call Aunt Sally. Olie goes by the name of Mary Martin, here. "I am afraid the poor child works too hard. I am glad for her sake that I came here; she is so very lonely and sad, I have learned to love her very much. I don't see how it is possible for any one to look upon her sweet, sad face without feeling some interest in her. There is a strange contrast between old Aunt Sally and Olie, for so I love to call her, or rather to think of her; the name revives so many pleasant, yet mournful recollections. They live in a miserable-looking little house. "I would like to know all her history, and how Mr. Brant happened to take such a deep interest in her; there is a native refinement and grace about her, though she lives with an uneducated and unrefined old woman. I have met no one here who seemed to me as interesting as she. "If she only had time and opportunity, she would make a   184           OLIE. fine scholar; it is strange how she has remembered any thing of the French language; but she has, and she converses so intel- ligently, too. She has probably grown much since Ella saw her, she appears much older than she really is. "Ella, who sometimes thinks she has such hard times, I think would feel quite grateful if she could step in to Sally Martin's old leaky house, and see how Olie lives. "I have given you a specimen of my calls. I have had others of a still different and more encouraging character; You see, I have had a good many suggestions, I hardly know how I shall improve all of them. I do not believe the minds of young people are, ' like rolls of linen,' all alike; it seems I have a variety of material to work with. "How often I wish, my dear mother, you could be here to advise me; when I am a little puzzled, and don't know just what to do, I try and think what mother would do in such a place. Some advice you have given me, in other days, has, thus far, been of real service to me. I shall always have reason to be grateful for such a mother-I found it rather difficult to treat all my callers politely, and conform my remarks to the tastes and views of each, without compromis ing my own independence. "I don't mean to be too anxious to please; I will do what I think is right, and try and not fear the consequences. "I suppose it will be difficult to make people appreciate what they do not themselves possess. I begin to see the force of the remarks in Dr. Taylor's letter; the one I received directing my attention to Elmville. I have seen some rare specimens of human nature, yet I find something to love in all, and something to do. I have written so closely all over   PROFESSIONAL CALLS.          185 this sheet of foolscap, and then crossed it so, I am afraid you will not be able to read it; yet when I commence writing, I imagine I am with you, dear mother, and I can't find any good stopping-place.. I wish I could take the place of this letter- write me very often, you and Ella both, you don't know how much good your letters do me. I am, with much love, "Your affectionate,       ANNA." Poor Anna was quite puzzled in her new position. Seated by her little writing-desk for hours, she tried to mark out a plan which she could pursue to her own and others' satisfac tion. If ideas could be measured out like pills and powders, far easier could the youthful guide make his prescription and administer the dose metaphysical; then parents and guard- ians might have their directions rigidly followed, and the intel- lectual growth of their favorite wards vary according to their several wishes-from the spiritual gigantic to the tiny Lilipu- tian. Anna had learned a new chapter in human nature; to her it was rare and unique. She had formed a beautiful and perfect ideal of a school, with its classes well arranged and marshaled in the corridors of her brain. This school was to be a model of symmetry and proportion. Now the beautiful fabric was suddenly over- thrown; no more could she think of regularly arranging, drilling, and marshaling her pupils. As she pillowed her head that night, in dreams she saw the ,steep hill of science; some of her scholars were gamining the summit at a leap, some creeping moderately, some climbing   186            OL IE. quickly, others, with a snail's slow progress, toiling up the foot of the hill. Waking f ;te early, her first thought was the poet's true aying, t laid plans of mice and men uley."   CHAPTER XX. TIDINGS FROM    CLARA. "Friendly -the teacher stood, like an angel of light then among them, And to the children explained she the holy, the highest, in few words; Thorough, yet simple and clear, for sublimity always is simple." "ONGFELLOW. From tZe, 'weah. THE day after Mary's call seemed a very pleasant one to Anna; every thing went just right in school-lessons perfect; and at table, under her plate, she found a long letter from mother and Ella. Then on the little table in her own room, was a beautiful bouquet of wild flowers. Mary Lee had risen very early that morning and gathered them. Oh! how exquisitely they were arranged-the delicate lilies of the valley twining in among fresh violets, and rose- buds, and beautiful wild flowers. She had been in very quietly, and laid them down; but Mrs. Giles happened to see her as she was going out of the gate. Poor child, she had dreamed of her kind friend at night, and, with the first dawn of day, had started out and gathered the flowers. How much delicacy and refinement may be displayed in the selection and grouping together of a few fading flowers. "Gentle and thoughtful the heart that prompts such a beauti- ful token of gratitude," thought Anna, as she placed the !   188           O LIE. flowers (just as Mary had tied them together with the tendrils of some frail vine) in a small vase. Anna prized the flowers, and might have possibly guessed the giver, had not Mrs. Giles told her who had been in so slyly. Thus was Annals daily path strewed with flowers-the flowers of affection. She had planted in one heart the sweet buds of hope, and she knew not yet the fragrance coming to her own spirit. One of the, little girls had brought her some delicious peaches. The letter from home did her so much good: she felt so much better if she could only hear that they were well. Mother wrote such long letters, and Ella had writ- ten quite a long one this time too. There are storms and calms in the sunniest spirit's course; and Anna had found, by a few weeks' experience, that the "gloomiest day hath gleams of light." It seemed to her that God was guiding her, and that His smile was resting upon her. That night she went up to the school-room; she had prom- ised the girls that she would help them trace out a few con- stellations. "Soft purple clouds came sailing over the sky, and through their vapory folds the winking stars shone bright as silver." The girls were all out on the green grass waiting for Anna. They traced the outlines of two or three constellations, when Ellen came to tell Anna that a gentleman was at home wait- ing to see her. "Oh, it is somebody who has come to place daughters in school, perhaps," thought Anna, as she told the girls they might wait a few moments, and she would probably be back soon; if she was not, they might come again to-morrow night. She was soon back in her room.   TIDINGS: FROM CLARA.         189    O What a blunder Mrs. Giles had made! Instead of taking the strange gentleman in her own room, she had invited him into Anna's; and when she reached home, and walked in as usual to doff her bonnet and shawl, there, by her window, newspaper in hand, sat a gentleman, wholly unconscious that he was sitting in Miss Harwood's room; he had given old Mrs. Giles too much credit in attributing to her the evidence of taste displayed in the arrangement of the simple furniture; decorations on the wall, the flowers on the table; there was something even artistic in the looping up of the cur- tains. The chairs had a kind of polite silent expression in their inviting position, as if challenging guests to an easy seat. "Who could it be," thought Anna, as she entered her room and met the glance of the stranger. It was a fine head and the eyes were expressive-that smile was so sunny--it was a face that once seen was never forgotten. Never before had such a head been seen in Mrs. Giles's old house-it was n't pretty-but noble and manly. Anna was surprised to find the gentleman there, and wondered how he chanced to come; he certainly could have no professional business with her. But he had business near there, and being a friend of Clara's, he had offered to call on Anna and bring any package or letter Clara might wish to send. Anna was soon well acquainted with the stranger-and conversed wfth him on topics to which she had never alluded to any one in Elmville; they talked of authors and books, people and places, and of Clara, of whom both had so high an opinion.   1.   190           OLIE Anna was a brilliant, agreeable talker, excelling in repartee. And this- short call from the stranger lawyer was a pleasant episode in her quiet life. As he rose to go, he said, "I suppose your time is occupied all day, Miss Harwood. I shall be in the village to-morrow, and if you will tell me when you will be at liberty, I shall call and take any thing you wish to Miss Clara." i My duties close at four, sir ;" said Anna, "and then I can see my friends." Every night Anna would take down the curls confined all day, and sitting on the low stool, would think over all the events of the day, what " she had done that was worth the do- ing ;" and if the morrow could witness any improvement in her little school, in which she was beginning to feel an enthu- siastic interest, that night she had more than usual thinking to do. She had asked Mr. Wilder so many questions, it seemed almost as if she had seen Clara, she had heard so much about the people and the place--then she thought of so many questions she wished she had asked. Clara had sent her some articles of her own work. Uncle John was rich, yet her supply of pocket money was limited, and she had worked fast for two or three days; when she found that Mr. Wilder intended passing through Elmville. There was a beautiful bag, just what Anna needed; half a dozen plain collars, a silk apron trimmed with folds of crape, and a pair of gloves purchased for herself, which she thought she could do without; but there was something better than all this, in a little box in the bottom of the package, a little miniature. There was the high, pale forehead, the hair parted just as he used to wear it. The eyes bright and pleas-   TIDINGS FROM CLARA.          191    I ant-almost a smile on the lips. "Father! dear father!" said Anna, kissing it again and again, "Those lips are thine--thy own sweet smile I see, The same that oft in childhood solaced me." It was Clara's own work, the work of weeks; memory and affection had been her guide. Hour after hour she would sit trying to give the perfect expression of life to those features, she knew so well, and well had she succeeded in bringing out the " meek intelligence of those dear eyes ;" and she knew of " no gift that would be more acceptable to Anna. "How rich am I while I have such a sister," thought she, as she laid the precious miniature under her pillow that night-pleasant were her dreams as the " cares that troubled the day folded their tents and silently stole away." Early the next morning she wrote a long letter to Clara, so that it should be ready for Mr. Wilder to take. That afternoon he called and asked Anna if she would ride with him and show him the country. She obligingly assented, pointing out to him as they rode up the street her school- room, which she playfully called the Harwood Seminary. Some gentleman of taste, Mrs. Giles said, had commenced building the house-and part of the front was quite fanciful, having a great deal of carved work on it; there was one small part of the front intended to be of the Gothic order of archi- tecture--the architect had either failed in his attempts or changed his original plan, for there was a strange blending of all kinds of orders but good order about it, so Mr. Smith said; he bought the house after the gentleman who built it had- left it unfinished. He bought it at a very low price and finished it   w    ]92           O LIE. so the west part of the edifice had a plain unpretending ap. pearance. Anna always called it the Gothic seminary. Mr. Giles said it was a wonder how any body could put so much gingerbread work in so small a space; for his part he was often tempted to pull it all down. They took a long ride through the green fields down by the mill and out beyond the grove. When they came back, Mrs. Giles's tea was all ready, and she insisted on Mr. Wilder's taking tea with them, which he was quite willing to do. Mr. Wilder seemed to Anna quite like an old friend; and Mrs. Giles took a great fancy to him-she said it would do for old married ladies to take fancies, and to express them too, if they like. He conversed with Mr. Giles about the crops, the price of grain; and how stock was selling; and seemed as much at his ease as when a short time before he had eloquently talked about the sunset, which had been so beautiful. This little visit was a pleasant episode in Anna's life; and the lawyer thought it a very agreeable digression from the mo- notony of his journey, only he thought it was a great deal too short as he bade Anna good-by. After he left, Anna helped Ellen a little with one of her long sums, in interest on notes, a kind of mathematical Ru- bicon every young scholar dreads. Ellen got along very well with Anna's help. "The Astron- omy class meet to look at the stars to-night, Ellen," said Anna. "Would you like to go, Ellen a". "Oh, very much!" "Well get your bonnet and go with me; I told the girls I 'd be there early."   There was a light in the school-room, and Anna and Ellen found them all there; with their large astronomical maps be- fore them. First they examined the maps, until the outlines of the constellations then visible were distinct in their minds, and then they all gathered around Anna under the blue sky. To most of them the study was entirely new. Anna did not think it the best season to commence it, but they were so anx- ious, she consented, meaning to give it still more attention when winter came. How pleasant the beginning of the study of a science to minds wholly ignorant of it, who have had no previous su- perficial knowledge to make them  weary of it. A teacher interested in her subject, and possessing the power of com- municating, can give such minds a vast amount of informa- tion and pleasure. To Anna, familiar with her theme, it was a rich pleasure to communicate what was so eagerly received. From memory they were to dot on paper the stars in each constellation, as they appeared to them. Their star maps oc- cupied much of their attention, until the following Tuesday, wheqn they were requested to bring them in. The girls escorted their loved teacher home, many con- tending for the nearest place; all wanted to be by her side. Saturday morning came, a busy day is Saturday to teachers and scholars--both mean to do so much-a little doing up of muslins, some mending; how many things they want to do on Saturday morning; and then the afternoon, how short it always seems; calling, or receiving calls, a little promenading, some shopping, perhaps a letter to write. How soon night comes!  What teacher or scholar does all she means to do on Saturday! 9   194           OLIE. School associations cling to us through life, and quite often do we find ourselves on Saturday afternoon, perhaps long after school-days are over, impelled to put on our bonnets, and go out for a walk. Anna was one of those busy people who always find some- thing to do, but with her Saturday morning was a busy time; she swept and dusted her room, trimmed the little lamp, and polished the little brass candlestick Mrs. Giles had appropriated to her use. She shook the dust from her cur- tains. Most of these she did before breakfast. The books were taken off the little table, the leaves opened, Anna's folio pencils and paper were all qut; and soon the girls were seated around it for their morning lesson. One, a little pale, interesting girl, was making an arch, another shading the roof of a house, and a third was sketching the outlines of a tree. "Oh, Miss Harwood," said she, "do please shade this tree for me. I have been trying this long time to make it look like yours, but the leaves look as if they were tied on; yours look as if they were really growing, just like the leaves on the old elm before our door. I never could make trees, and I don't believe I ever can. Do please, Miss Harwood, help me a little on the top of this tree. I wanted this picture to look so well, and my tree will spoil it all. Please give me, a picture next time without any trees." "I 'll help you a little, Alice, but if I make all the trees it will not be your picture, and your mother would like it much better if you could show her all your own work. Then when you can make one tree well, you can make as inany as you please. How strange your picture would look   ..... ' 195 without trees! Would you like your house at home quite as well without those beautiful elms? I will ommence it for you: make your touches in this way, and don't think of a whole tree at a time; make one branch like mine, and shade in darker, and it will soon begin to look like a tree. When I was a little girl I wanted to put all my trees in the house, but my teacher would have me make them. Day after day he kept me drawing nothing but trees until I thought I saw whole groves of them in my dreams. After awhile I could sketch the outlines with perfect ease, and in a few weeks I really loved to shade them. We always prize more what osts us some effort. There, now, that branch looks very yell." Alice, thus encouraged, said no more about her tree. "Now, I'll see what Sarah is doing," said Anna, as she ame around to the other side of the table. "Ah! you are taking an arch." "Yes, ma'am, and it will never look like one; I have made many, and rubbed them out, and my  paper 's full of marks. )  you think I ever will learn, Miss Harwood i" and tears ed Sarah's eyes. Sarah was one of those desponding little bodies who really re good abilities, but who underrate them, and are very ily discouraged; and, until they are confident of some suec- s, will do very little hopefully. 'Oh, yes, I am sure you will; those windows look very I, the lines are so straight, and the roof is shaded prettily have begun well this time." Won't you please make it for me?" No, my dear, you must make it all yourself."   196           OLIE. Soon Ellen came in, saying that somebody wanted to see Miss Harwood in the hall. Anna went out, and there stood Mary Lee. She felt a little timid about coming the first time. "Good morning, Mary," said Anna, taking her hand; "I am very glad to see you, I did n't know but you had forgotten about the drawing. Come in, now; I have just one place left at my table for you." As she came in Anna said to the girls, "I have persuaded Mary to try too. She has learned a little before, and now we shall have a pleasant class." Mary, thus kindly alluded to, was relieved of the embarrassment she felt at first, and was soon sketching the outlines of a picture Anna had given her. Anna gave her the picture, and left her to herself, thinklin she could better find out what she could do. The outlines were soon boldly and correctly sketched. The hour had expired. Alice had finished her tree; the greatest feat she had ever performed; so said her eyes, as Miss Harwood praised her work. Sarah's arch looked quite like an arch; and Jane's roof was all done. Mary had commenced shading; her cheeks flushed into pleasurable exitement. "Have you sketched any thing like this before?" said Anna. "No, I have sketched nothing, only a little from nature, and some copies of old ruins. I had a friend once who showed me how to make barns, and houses, and such things." Mary never mentioned Richie's name. She kept in her heart many little memories of him, and of life at Aunt Rachel's; but it was over now-a sealed book-a locked casket. She was no longer Olie-Richie's Olie--Uncle Frank's Olie, but Mary Martin, the washerwoman's daughter; and gladly would she   TH-E DRAWING-CLASS.          197 have forgotten her early joys, if she could thus become more accustomed to present circumstances-if she could make them more endurable, there could be, there would be now no change, she would say often, mournfully. Child as she yet was, Mary sometimes would wonder why she had had such a beautiful world opened before her, only to pass away forever from her eyes. Why she should have books, and birds, and flowers; fond clasping of kind arms; loving words, and sunny smiles; gentle protection-all so dear, so sure, so true-yet all so suddenly torn from her; her orphaned heart left without home; no father--no mother- no caressings-no blessings-no moorings-no restings-yet at last, one had come-this stranger teacher, -who gave her smiles and help; she came like an angel, so Mary thought. "Well, you have done very well, Mary; you may shade a little longer, you came in so late," but the other girls may put up their drawings; and don't forget the composition on Monday," said Anna. The happy girls were soon on their way home; all had enjoyed their lesson so much; they always loved to be near dear Miss Harwood, she talked to them so kindly; it did n't seem like taking a lesson, as it did when that cross Mr. Smith taught them.   "I wish we could draw all day," said Sarah , as she entered her gate. "So do I, too," said Alice, as she bade her good-morning. Mary Lee had brought her Telemaque; she had marked the words she could not translate. She read the first part of the lesson with some difficulty, but the last she had translated very correctly. Her pronunciation was quite good, and her accent fine.   198           OLIE. "How long were you translating the lesson i" asked Anna. "I don't know," said Mary; "I read some every night, and some every morning. First, I tried to get the sense of it, and I read it over and over a great many times, until it seemed quite plain." "It would be a better plan for you, Mary, though not quite so easy a one, to get the exact meaning of each word first, and then find the sense of the whole afterward. Then there are some idioms that puzzle you, which I can explain, and you can get the next lesson easier. - You have done very well this, time. Come to me after school, on Wednesday, and I 'll hear you translate as much as you can have time to read, and then you can finish your picture on next Saturday. Here are some pencils and paper you may take-perhaps you can draw a little at home. I have some business to attend to now, in the street, and I'1ll walk along a little way with you." A new light beamed in Mary Lee's eyes, and new hopes kindled in her heart. She did not express her gratitude-she was silent, as people of strong feelings are apt to be when very thankful, but in her eyes Miss Harwood was her guardian angel. Work seemed easier, now that she was learning some- thing, and then she could go and sit with Miss Harwood awhile every week, and that was a very great pleasure. Aunt Sally was so busy and sober, she never could sympa- thize with her; and poverty, and the infirmities of age, had made the old grandmother very exacting in her demands upon Mary's patience. "Mary Martin, what have you been doing all this morn- ing?" said Aunt Sally, as Mary came in, and took off her bonnet and shawl.   THE DRAWING-CLASS.         199 "I have been drawing, some of the time, aunt." "Making pictures, eh! well, and what good will that do? I wonder if people's goin' to live in them houses you've fixed up so nicely. What's the use of puttin' such notions into girls' heads? it will only make a fine lady of you. You might better learn to wash, and bake, and iron, and be of some use to somebody; when I was a girl, no bigger than you, I could do a whole washing, and spin, too. "Now, the girls learn so many things, which only make 'em good for nothin'. Your mother was fond of books, poor thing, and it would have been a great deal better for her if she 'd never known any thing about 'em, I'm thinkin'. Fill your head full of 'em, and it will never get you any bread and butter. It will do well enough for people who've nothing else to do, and who live in fine houses, and who don't know what to do with their money, to learn -as many ologies as they please, and fill their houses with pictures too, if they've a mind to." Mary knew, her aunt was tired, and out of sorts, but she was afraid she wouldn't let her go to Miss Harwood's again. "Aunt Sally," said Mary, "I think Miss Harwood is very kind to take so much pains with me; she said she was com- ing to see you, soon, and if I do go and recite, I will only work faster when I come home again. I can rise an hour earlier in the morning, if you 'll only let me go." "WellI, child, as you 've set your heart upon it, you may go. I suppose she means well enough; but then there's no use in it. After all, there's something very taking about her. She paid me  more than any body else for cleaning her room, too; she said I needed the money, and then its very kind of   200           OLIE. her to think of coming to see a poor body, like me, whom no- body cares any thing about ;" the last part of her remark she half-muttered, so Mary did -nt hear her. The old grandmother said to Mary, as she went out a mo- ment, that "Sally had been very cross all the morning; she guessed the idea of the new teacher coming to see her, quite mollified her." Mary said nothing, but she thought of some verses she had seen that morning in a paper:-- "The world is not so bad a world As people try to make it; But whether good, or whether bad, Depends on how we take it. "And all the nameless grievances Brought on by borrowed troubles% May prove, as certainly they are, A mass of empty bubbles 1"   CHAPTER XXI. A PEEP INTO PYNCHEON SQUARE. "'Tis strange, 'tis passing strange; 'Tis pitiful, 't is wondrous pitiful, And pity 't is, 't is true." ONE morning Anna found at the office a letter from her old friend and schoolmate Julie Wallace. She had become an orphan, and her guardian had placed her at Miss Pyn- cheon's fashionable boarding-school. She was very unlike Anna, and a great lover of fun, yet she always looked up to her old friend, whom she dearly loved, and in this letter she opened her heart freely to her. She always called her cousin. "PYNCHEON SQUARE. "DEAR COUSIN ANNA :- "HoN much I long to see you and have an old-fash- ioned chat with you. What strange tricks time plays with us all! Not very long ago you and I were together in school, sitting side by side before those old green desks. Fine times we had of it too-at least H-you were always so studious, you didn't have as much-fun as the rest of us. How we teased poor Monsieur Ellong. It was really too bad to stick 9*   202           o L I E. all those needles in his chair. But I did n't have any hand ir that, though I believe Mr. Baxter always thought I did--and then when Miss Howell's back was turned, how we would send that little kitten running across the floor with the little paper bonnet on, until the girls laughed till they cried. Here I am talking about old times, I must let them go and talk of new times. "Well, you are Miss Schoolmarm, teaching the young idea how to shoot, and I am a boarding-school young lady; a member of Miss Pyncheon's select, literary, scientific, and clas- sical institution, in good and regular standing. How I wish it was walking, and enjoying all the blessings of living in the full blaze of science. I ought to be very grateful for so elevated a position, while so many other young ladies, no better than 1, are at home doing just as they're a mind to. I have a fine opportunity to dispose of all my old bad habits, and form as many new good ones as I please. You will excuse me if I do tell a whole string of news this time, won't you 2 as I don't know when I shall get a chance again. I am writing this while the class are writing their French composition; and one of the day-scholars has promised to take it to the office for me. I 'll manage to finish my composition some other time. For fear we may make some serious blunder in orthography, ety- mology, syntax or prosody, we are forbidden sending rny communication to any one without first submitting it to MBiss Pyncheon's or Miss Spyalls inspection, who, I suppose, sees that the i's are regularly dotted, and the t's are correctly crossed. What beautiful letters we do write, Anna. Tlecy are so free and so natural. Sometimes we contrive to slip in a little postscript afterward. Perhaps Miss Pyncheon is   -A PEEP   INTO PYNCHEON SQUARE.      203 afraid we'll indulge too much in our descriptive talents, if we send them off without her seeing them. These boarding- schools are glorious things, they far exceed my expectations, I 'll tell you how we spend our days. The first bell is rung very early in the morning, so early that most of us don't hear it; the second, seems a little more audible. When we begin to realize it, there is a great scampering. Myroom-mate is just like me, she seldom hears the first bell. I used to think, Anna, I must spend a long time in the morning dressing, bathing, etc.; but now I can dress in a giffy. The third bell makes a great sensation, and without all the hooks being fas- tened, we clap on our sacks and hurry down stairs, until we get on the last flight, then we walk softly, slowly and digni- fiedly down, and into the dining room.   We have prayers first; and if we are late, we take our places very quietly, so that, if possible, our delinquency be not detected. Those who are late, the younger ones at least, are expected to resume their night-gowns until the next morning, when they are quite sure to rise early; and those who leave any article about in their rooms, are obliged to. wear it on their person, if wearable, all day; if it is no article of dress, it is fastened to them in some way. The other day, one of the girls, a Southerner quite in- dolent and careless in her habits, had to wear all day long a huge fur cape, which she had taken out of the closet, to show one of the' girls, and had forgotten -to replace it. The first exercise, when seated at the table, is the delivery and recep- tion of a lecture, if any young lady has been late, or trans- gressed in any way. Its length and severity depends very much upon the mood Miss Pyncheon happens to be in, and the chara-cter and standing of the offender. All rebukes are   204             L I E . administered at the table, quite an economical plan, we thinkl because so much less is eaten in consequence. For breakfast we have cakes and molasses one morning, and molasses and cakes the next. The cakes are like ' angels' visits, few and far between.' We have a cup of tea with a very little milk. Miss Pyncheon says she wonders what makes the milkman always so late. She says she thinks water is the healthiest kind of drink, and we begin to think so too, after drinking the tea awhile. Sometimes, for variety, we have hash-and such hash-you could n't guess what it's made of. It looks some- times like hashed bones or hashed potato-skins, floating about in a liquid of peculiar color. When at home, I was always teasing Sally to make hash-she makes capital hash-and she used to say she hoped I'd get enough sometime or other; and I guess I shall-the girls say we have it here almost all the year round. "Our breakfasts are eaten in silence; it is contrary to rules to speak at our meals, unless we ask for something, or answer Miss Pyncheon's or Miss Spyall's questions; and as we are expected to ask all our questions in French, mighty little is said, I assure you. As for laughing, we are almost afraid to smile; to be sure, I did laugh to-day, when one of the girls passed me the pepper-box, after slightly unscrewing the top. I soon found my food rather highly seasoned. There was no such thing as keeping sober, though Miss Spyall looked as if she would bite my head off. It was too provoking though, after all. By-the-by, pepper is the only condiment we have. Miss Pyncheon says, ' condiments are very unwholesome.' "Our table is always arranged very'handsomely.   The breakfast, dinner, and tea-set, are of the finest quality; the   silver is all in style; we have very heavy silver forks. The waiter is very prompt in removing dishes, brushing off crumbs, etc. "For dinner, sometimes we have codfish picked up; I guess it 's rather easier picking it up than swallowing it down. Sometimes we have a little fried ham, cut up into very small pieces, one day for dinner, and the next, we have eggs fried; they are near enough together, I suppose, to say we have ham and eggs. Occasionally we have boiled eggs, one a piece, ex- actly, with one extra one, which after we all decline, Miss Pyncheon usually appropriates herself. "The kind of meat we generally have, is liver-we have it some weeks every day, sometimes fried, sometimes broiled without butter; this morning we had it made up with potatoes into hash; 't is an economical dish, anyhow, for two thirds of us never touch it. Liver hash is something entirely new to me; liver is very cheap -here, sometimes the butchers give it away; sometimes we have a few water-soaked potatoes, just one a piece exactly; it is a mystery to me how they cal- culate so well. The bread is heavy, and always tastes about alike, just a little acid; Kate says ' she should think they 'd only had one big loaf of bread, from which we have been eat- ing ever since we came ;' it may be so, perhaps, for the slices are just of a size and color, and we have n't had a piece of fresh bread since I came; it is always put on the table stale; fresh bread don't go so far-we eat more of it. "By-theby, Anna, I must n't forget to tell you the new remedy I have for a cold. Kate and I coughed very hard at the breakfast-table this morning; Miss Pyncheon asked us if we knew what was the remedy- for a cold; we said no. So she   "Wp           V U b L B told us, if we would go without eating, it would certainly cure any cold. I asked her for how long a time, she said, I one day, and if it did n't get well then, abstain from food another day.' Kate said,' she guessed Miss Pyncheon would like it, if we all had colds, every day; if we would only use the remedy faithfully. I must tell you what we had for breakfast yester- day morning; a new dish, I think, just such -doughnuts as Sally used to make sometimes, without sweetening, only these taste as if they had no shortening either. "These sweetless, shortless doughnuts were -to be eaten with molasses, and this was all we had for our breakfast. "For dessert, we often have a little boiled rice, sometimes apples, a little specked. I suppose they won't keep much longer, and it's the best use to make of them; though Miss Pyncheon says, 'aapples are the most wholesome kind offruit. "Once in a while we have pie, and suchpie, with plenty of lengthening and widening in the crust; but precious little shortening, I should think; but Miss Pyncheon thinks ' rich pastry is very injurious;' and Miss Spyall says 'the cook is not accustomed to their way of cooking, and don't do very well yet.' All very true, for we have a new cook almost every week; I guess each one stays long enough to make one batch of bread.  I have been here three weeks, and in that time we have had three different presiding divinities in the kitchen. The first was an enormous sable sister, who always called  Miss Pyncheon, 'Miss Pinchem.'  Miss Pyncheon said I she never got any thing right;' the next was a stout Dutch woman, who soon took French leave; and the third was a little short Irish woman, Bridget we called her, and we all liked her too.   ".Now we have a Scotch woman, Miss Pyncheon says ' she thinks the Scotch make the best help; they are so respectful, and know their place.' You'd laugh, Anna, to see the inside of our pies; my room-mate, Kate, says 'she guesses it's made of stewed grasshoppers ; but I suppose the principal element -is dried apples. Kate makes fun of every thing. I have to tread on her toes very often at the table, to keep her from laughing outright. For tea we have very handsome tea- service-the bread is cut in very thin slices, and when it is a little sour we have molasses for preserves; we are careful not to take much butter, as we are expected to eat all on our plates, and few of us are inclined to eat much of it. The two elegant cake-baskets are filled with crackers; occasionally the monotony of their white surfaces is varied by some. small piece of gingerbread interspersed among them, which if it could speak, would bring last week's advices from the baker's. Miss Pyncheon says I'npthing is more unhealthy than rich cake.' I presume she thinks fresh gingerbread  injurious too. "Miss Pyncheon says plain fare is wholesome-but she eats rich food enough in her own room. Kate saw her through the crack of the door the other day eating mince-pie, roast beef, and plum-pudding. '"I forgot to tell you what a nice, warm place we have; our room is a back chamber in the third story, and is warmed by a pipe which comes from another room into ours; it comes into that room from a drum which stands in the end of a very long hall in the third story-the drum is warmed by a stove in the hall on the first floor, in which stove the fire is made late, and extinguished early. Miss Pyncheon says young   208           OLIE. ladies in cities ruin their constitution by sitting in very warm rooms; a moderately mild temperature is much healthier. However, the school-room is hot enough right round the stove anyhow. "There we sit or stand in the morning after breakfast and get a good toasting and smoking (for the chimney smokes bad enough)-then go to our rooms and get a little change of air, sometimes catch a little cold, perhaps-but then we can cure that by not eating any thing, so in the end, Miss Pyn- cheon saves coal and food too. "We usually take a light supper, so as Miss Spyall says, our minds may be clear to study. Kate says, she and I ought to have ours very clear, as we have n't eaten much for two or three days. Her father has gone to France, to be absent two years, and has left her here, as she says, I to get accom- plished.' But Miss Spyall is coming round this way, and if I don't stop now I can't send my letter, as school is almost out. I did n't mean to fill it up with accounts of our bill of fare; but when I get to thinking about it, I can't stop-next time I'll tell you about our study-hour, practicing, walking- company evenings; how we spend our Saturdays and Sun- days, etc.-if I can get a letter to the office again. Now Anna don't say I look on the dark side of the picture; I can see it on all sides, the comical side too. I wish I was far enough off to say the left side. I take a deep interest in every thing here, as I suppose I shall be here three years. If I com- plain to my guardian, he may put me in a worse place, as the girls say this is afair specimen of most boarding-schools; so I suppose I may as well stay here. But if I had a home Anna, and a mother, her arms and her heart should be my   A PEEP INTO PYNCHEON SQUARE.        209 boarding-school. But my room-mate is a real funny thing- she makes some new speech every day to get me a laughing. She says she wishes all boarding-schools were Banished far to Guinea's famous shore, Exiled to Halifax-return no more. 'You must excuse her meter, for neither she nor I feel in a very harmonious mood to-day. Do let me hear from you very soon, and believe me your sincere friend, "JULIE." "P. S. Who do you think I met at a party the other night? Somebody that knew you. Mr. Wilder, a young lawyer who had seen you, and called upon you; he spoke so very highly of you, that I rallied him a little, and made him blush. I guess you have made an impression there; and that saying a good deal for he is not very susceptible, and is a great favorite with all the young ladies in the city. He is a young man of fine talent. I should n't be surprised if you should see him again one of these days. Some say he pays attention to a Miss Laura Brant who is visiting here and spending some time at a fashionable boarding-house where Mr. Wilder boards. People say she has done it on purpose to catch him, and the truth is, she is as maneuvering as hefr mother. Some say she is engaged to him now; but I don't believe it-he has more sense than to have her." "What a queer girl Julie is," thought Anna.. "She seems to be the same old sixpence. She has written me a strange let- ter, indeed. I hardly know how to answer it. I expect she has exaggeratel the disadvantages of her position. The school she   I U           OLIE. is in is certainly not a fair specimen of all. I hope there are few like it. I am sure there are those conducted on a more lib- eral and judicious plan, of which our country may be proud. I have n't time to write her now, but one of these days I 'll write. I must n't let her know I pity her, though, as it al- ways has a bad effect upon pupils to sympathize with them in their real or imaginary grievances. She is a dear girl though, and I do love her. I suppose school is a great change from her happy home."   CHAPTER XXII. SATURDAY'S   TRIBULATIONS. But 7dghgeryet our wishes rise; we 're coveting for thee The wisdom coming from above, the joy from sorrow free; Strength for each dark and trying hour that falleth to thy lot, And firm unwavering trust and faith in Him who changeth not. "THERE, go and take off that clean frock, and put on the old brown calico, and the checked apron, and scrub out 'the kitchen, then peel the potatoes, wash the beets, and don't let the bread in the oven burn," said Aunt Sally to Mary; "you must spring about now, you 've been gone so long. I've got some clothes to wash yet, and those fine shirts will all have to go into the tub again, as the cow has been in the yard, and knocked down the clothes-pole, and they're all down in the mud; I don't believe any body ever did have such luck as-I do. I won't hang up any thing again on Fri- day. When you get through with the potatoes, and the beets, you may make grandmother's bed, and slick up the room a little. I 'm sure somebody 'll be comin' in afore long, for that fork I dropped stuck up straight on the floor; and then Is want you to draw me half a dozen pails of water, and put it in the big tub, so I can rinse out my shirts. There, dear me, if there ain't Mr. Jones' big dog walking all over   212           O L-I E. them clean table-cloths; just take the broomstick, and run and drive him out. I guess if Mr. Jones don't keep that dog to home, I 'll get somebody to shoot him. This is the second time he's been all over my clean clothes to-day; and then you may help me put up the clothes-line again before you come in. I 'm clear tuckered out; I can't do much more to-day." Mary was dressed, and oddly enough too she looked in the old brown frock. It was one of Aunt Sally's, tucked up, and it was n't the best fit either. It had a broad calico collar on the neck; and the sleeves were so large and expanding at the elbows, that it looked as if it was made in the year one. Aunt Sally said, " it was so large and roomy, Mary ought to be thankful to have such a nice frock to work in." She always made her wear some old shoes of hers about the house, "to save her others." The shoes were rather large, and Mary found it quite difficult to be as expeditious in her chase after the dog as Aunt Sally wanted her to be. Grandmother's bed was made up, no very easy task for Mary; as grandmother always slept on a feather bed, and she was very particular about its being made up just so. She wanted the feathers very even, and the head very high, and some nights, she said, r"when her rheumatiz troubled her so much, she never slept a wink, the bed was n't smooth; it didn't lie good at all. Nobody ever could make a bed as she could; she wished she was strong as she was in her young days, and she 'd show Mary how to stir up the feathers." Thus the old lady talked, as she sat in the chim- ney-corner, trying to knit a little a They did n't do nothing now as they did when she was young; people did n't know as mnuch, and she didn't believe the world was as good as   SATURDAY'S TRIBULATIONS.         213 it used to be. It seemed to be growing wickeder and wick- eder every day." When Mary came in from her hot pursuit after the dog, she found to her great dismay, that the bread in the oven was burned-a side of one of the loaves was quite black-she took a knife and scraped it off as well as she could; she knew nothing could trouble Aunt Sally more than to have her bread burn. "Oh, dear! I wish I had seen to the bread myself," said Aunt Sally, as she came in. "I might have known it would burn if I did n't look after it myself. It's a pity I have n't eyes all over- my head, and can't be in the house and out doors too. I thought that bread would last a whole week; and I 'm out of turnpikes now too: well, I suppose the pigs can eat it." The hands of the old clock were fast moving on to the hour of dinner. Mary's beets and potatoes were boiling, and the table was set. Grandma had fallen asleep in her chair; Mary was resting a moment. "Mary," said Aunt Sally, "I guess you 'll have time before dinner to iron them three or four collars in the basket, while I finish my starching." Mary ironed three. When Aunt Sally came in, she said, "Why, child, you 've scorched one of those nice collars; that was a great piece of carelessness; it is a great pity I set you to ironing them. I always get paid if I don't do things myself." "Indeed, aunt," said Mary, "I did not scorch it; it was scorched when I ironed it. I saw it when I took it out of the basket."   214           OLi1. "Oh, no, you never do any thing, it's always somebody else." A tear fell on Mary's iron, but she kept very still-it was warm and her head ached-she was very sensitive, and she could not be blamed unjustly without feeling it deeply. Uncle Frank was himself too kind and sensitive ever to wound an- other's feelings; and his care and kindness had illy prepared her for harsh words or rough treatment. She coughed much that afternoon; perhaps she had taken cold the day before. She had been out hanging up clothes in the wind after working over the fire. "Why, child, how you cough, I guess you went out this morn- ing without any shawl. That cough will be the death of you yet, if you ain't careful-you must drink a bowl of boneset to-night, and don't let me see you out without a shawl again," said Aunt Sally. Mary said nothing; she had learned that rare gift of keep- ing still when blamed; she knew that thus the heaviest cloud would pass over. Aunt Sally did n't have so many irons in the fire every Saturday; but it happened that Friday after- noon, as she told Mary, a gentleman from York had brought some collars there, and he wanted them done up by Saturday night. Then it had rained so much she had n't time to do up all her shirts before Friday-she hoped she should n't get so behindhand next week. Mary hoped so too, that night, as she seated herself by the window with her book. Soon she saw some one coming with a quick step down the street, and then cross over at the corner. "Oh! that is Miss Harwood; I wonder if she is coming here," thought Mary.   SATllRDAY S TRIBULATIONS.        21P A few moments passed, and Anna was at Aunt Sally's door "Are you well to-night, Mary?" said she, thinking she looked paler than usual. "Yes, quite well, I thank you," said Mary, in a hesitating voice. "Come in, won't you ."  "' No, not now, Mary, I am going to see little Sarah Adams, who is very ill. I have come to see if you would nt like to join my Bible-class. I have a class of ten, who meet me at the church an hour before morning service. If you would like to go, I'll call for you to-morrow morning," said Anna. "We all enjoy the hour very much." "Oh, thank you, I should like to go very much; I 'm sonry you can't come in now," said she, as she bade her good-night. The subject of the morning's Bible lesson was the parable of the talents. "There are none of you," said Anna, when the lesson was almost finished, " who have not some talent, who can not do something for God's glory and be useful to others. You can by example, by kind words, by patient obedience to those who rule over you, show the spirit of Christ, as really as if you were in some exalted position. We all have trials, and pa- tiently meeting them, often fit us for doing great good, and in the end makes us happier." "How can trials do us good2" said Mary. "Do they not make us fretful and impatient?" "Sometimes they do; but if patiently and cheerfully en- dured, we may be grateful for them; and ' light afflictions' as they are, they shall 'work out for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory'." "But how can we always be patient, Miss Harwood 8"   216           OLIE. "God will help us, if we ask Him. He giveth liberally and upbraideth not. He is more willing than earthly parents are to give good gifts to their children." "But how do we know He will hear us?" said Mary. "He has promised, and His promise never fails. He noteth every sparrow's fall, He every sigh doth tell; He ordereth all things for our good--"He doeth all things well." "And can we be sure He watches us all the time, Miss Har- wood?" said Mary, her eyes full of tears. "Yes, we are never alone. If we will give ourselves away to Him, He will 'receive us graciously, and love us freely,' and we can never have any real misfortunes so long as He is our friend. "May you and I, and all of us, look up to the hills from whence cometh all our strength. God sometimes takes away our blessings that we may learn to think more of Him and, Heaven." Mary had never heard all this before; it was just what she wanted to know, and with regret she heard the little bell ring, which was a signal for both Sabbath-school and Bible-class to close. Anna gave Mary a seat in Mr. Giles's pew, and she went up into the choir. By a singular coincidence, the pastor's morning theme was the parable of the talents; and most solemn was his appeal to all. Mary listened attentively, and during the day, she would ask herself often, "Have I any talent to use? What shall I do? I wish I was as good as Miss Harwood. What can I do here 2 I do want to feel right and act right. Why did God put me here? Tf Tncle Frank had livcd, I believe I could be   THE BIBLE-CLASS.         217 good; but here, I have so many trials-I never do any thing right. Oh, dear! I am getting worse and worse every day. It seems as if God was so very far off-I can't see- Him, and I'm afraid he will not hear me. I was made for some- thing better than toiling, day after day, at that which I never can do well. When I try to do right one day, something will surely happen to make me impatient, and, if I am impa- tient, I fear God will never bless me. "I will go to God; I will tell him how wicked I am- perhaps He will take away my impatient heart, and make me contented and happy. I remember now Miss Harwood said, He could make us happy any where. I never thought I could be happy here. Nobody loves, me very much. I am not strong enough to do all Aunt Sally wants me to; and grandma don't seem to love any body. I suppose she has had so many troubles, they have only hardened her heart. Perhaps, after all, if I had a very happy home here, I should forget about my liome in Heaven; and I might never want to get ready to go there. Maybe that's what Miss Anna meant, when she said, 'the things of this world would draw off our thoughts from Heaven; and so God often takes away our earthly blessings.' But if He put us just where we are, it is very wrong to complain. I hope God will forgive me for finding fault." Long and earnestly that night did Mary ask God to make her contented and patient. A calm and happy feeling stole into her heart as she lay down to rest; it seemed to her that God really was near her, and' that He would watch and guide her. There was ona heart long unwatched, uncared for; there 10   218           OLIE. tender flowers had been fast withering, and rank weeds had grown. But the seed sown tremblingly by a faithful teacher's hand, had even now taken root-perhaps, in the future, to ripen into beauty for the garden of our God. The tender flowers of hope were again putting forth, 'neath the dew of kindly influence and prayer, and warmed by the sunshine of God's smile. Poor Mary had just begun to find out that some of her trouble was in her own wicked heart; and that that must be right, or every thing else would be wrong. She was so sur- rounded by circumstances, that it seemed to her none but God could help her. She was beginning to walk in a new path, and that seemed almost dark. It was new and unknown. She felt that she wanted a guide close by her, to keep her from falling. Early the next morning she opened her Bible, and her eye fell upon this passage which Anna had marked, "Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the chief." Her heart seemed very wicked, and she wondered she had not seen it before. Monday was a busy day with her, but a very happy one. Work was easier; and then she had a dear little note from Miss Harwood, which one of the girls brought her at noon. Anna, too, was happy; she had received. a letter from home, and from Clara. Clara described her home at Uncle John's; she seemed to be getting attached to the old man. And quite unexpectedly, too, she had a short letter from Mr. Wilder. While Anna was reading Mr. Wilder's letter, and wonder- ing how she should answer it, Ellen came in to tell her that   A NEW  SCHOLAR.         219 grandma had a letter from Mr. Phelps, an old acquaintance of hers living in the city, who had heard from Dr. Taylor, a cousin of his wife's, so flattering a report of the new teacher It Elmville, that he, wishing to have his daughter awhile in the country, was coming to place her in the school; and hoped Mrs. Giles would be willing to board her; and thus she night have the double advantage of her motherly care and Miss Harwood's influence and assistance. She had been so ong confined in the city, he thought country air and food vould do her good; she was rather indolent in her habits, tnd it wouldn't harm  her to be spurred up a little. He vanted her to break away from her old associations, and see 'she could not form habits of study and application. She was, he thought, very obliging and docile; but she never ad been inspired with a desire to learn, or acquire knowledge )r the love of it. Mrs. Giles said "she would do any thing to accommodate fr. Phelps, and though her rooms were now quite occupied, le would change round a little, and put up another bed, and le guessed they'd get along; at any rate, they'd try a few eeks and see." Mrs. Giles kept Anna a long time tallking that night. She ld her about Mrs. Phelps, whose mother once lived next )or to hers. The next day Mr. Phelps and Emma    came. Anna liked r. Phelps very much. He  said "he would let her have the ltire direction of Emma's course of study. He wasn't raid she would ever injure herself by application; he would ze to have her go on with her. French, and take drawing 3SOnS."   220 .          OLIE. He went away in two or three hours. He was a great bus- iness man, and could n't leave home long. Before he left he handed Anna the money to which Emma's tuition would amount, and some extra beside; saying "he liked to pay such bills in advance; and as she would have so much care of his daughter, he preferred paying her the city price." Here was the first fruits of Anna's labor, and as she re- ceived it, she consecrated it to the gratification of a long- cherished plan. Soon the little writing-desk was out, and rapidly the pen moved across the page. It was almost school-time, and the letter should go in the afternoon's mail. Only a page was written, written hurriedly, then enclosed in the little en- velop, when Ellen, happening to come in, offered to take it to the office. By night the white-winged messenger was on its way and --whither?   CHAPTER XXIII. "AB OR8 BFIRST FRUITS. "Wouldst thou have a wand all potent To illume life's blackest night? 'Tis the thought that eo'en in sorrow Darkest hours precede the light." D. W. CArBELL. A VERY pale and delicate-looking woman was sitting by her little table trying to sew. She looked weary, and the traces of recent illness were in her hollow cheeks and languid eye. She had sewed from morning till night, for weeks, and thus obtained all the necessaries of life.  Part of the rent she had paid, some clothing bought, and then she had a little money left. She had laid it away in one corner of her drawer, and the next week she expected with it to send her little daughter to school; and this money was to pay the tuition in advance, according to the rules of the Institution. A day before the school was to commence, she was taken suddenly ill; and  Dr. Williams, who was soon called in by the alarmed child, pronounced it a case of fever-the fever which was prevalent in the city. She was ill for some weeks; her daughter was her only nurse. Much medicine was given; the physician was unremitting in his attentions, and after long days of danger she was pronounced convalescent. The physician was paid, the expenses incurred during her ill-    222           OLIE. ness almost settled, but the money was all gone, and she was now a little in debt. It would soon be time for part of the rent to be paid, and before she was able, she was sitting up and sewing-sewing early and sewing late. Few who had seen her in health and prosperity would recognize in that emaciated face the once fine-looking Mrs. Harwood. But it was she; and the little girl looking so wistfully out of the window was Ella. Poor Ella, it was something new for her to be nurse and housekeeper; and now she could n't bear to see her pale mother sewing so hard. Tears would fill her deep blue eye, and in vain she would try to hide them from her mother. Suddenly a group of happy school-girls passing the win- dow, attracted her attention. She raised her head eagerly, and leaning her head on her hand, watched the merry group, until the last foot-fall died upon her ear. Morning and noon she watched eagerly the happy com- pany hurrying to school. "Ella, my dear," said her mother one day, "Why are you so sad? something troubles you; can I do any thing for you ." "Mother," said Ella, "I long to go to school; I am forget- ting all I ever knew. I should be very happy if I could only go." Mrs. Harwood sat thoughtfully silent for a few moments; after a while, she said, "Let's ask God to help us, and in some way or other, if not just now, He may grant your desire. 'The silver and the gold are all in His hands, and He can furnish the means.'    "ABORrS FIRST FRUITS.         223 Ella said nothing, but looked very sad and thoughtful; she swas fond of study, and the height of her present ambition was to be where she could pursue her studies. Whether she ate or slept, one thought occupied her wak- ing, and disturbed her sleeping hours. I How can I go to school?" Another day passed, and Ella returned from her daily visit to the office, with a letter postmarked Elmville. It was from sister Anna, giving a brief account of Mr. Phelps' visit, and inclosing the money he had given her; wishing that it might be appropriated in defraying the expense of one quarter's tuition for Ella; and that perhaps there would be money left to purchase some books. Anna had written hurriedly; but little as she wrote, she expressed much pleasure in being able to send even this; regretting that, at present, she was able to do no more. She expressed much anxiety lest one of them had been sick, it was so long since she had heard from them. "God has not forgotten us, Ella," said Mrs. Harwood, as she folded up the letter; " we will try and not murmur -or dis- trust Him, whatever may be our trials; like a kind shepherd, He is gently leading us in the green pastures of His goodness. "I could not bear to have you out of school, and day and night I sought in vain to think of some means to send you; but when I gave up trying, and trusted in Him, His provi- dence has furnished us the means. I say providence, for I believe there is a providence in little, as in great things, Ella; and perhaps if we were rich, as we once were, we should not so easily see the leadings of His hand. "Sometimes when clouds have gathered heavily, and I could   224           OLIE. see nothing but gloom, I have desponded; but then a voice has seemed to say, 'Fear not, I am with thee, be not dis- mayed.' "Ella, you have no earthly father; his smile can never cheer you; his voice you can not hear. We are sometimes very lonely, but God is your father; infinitely wiser and bet- ter, richer and kinder, than the one noble and beloved sleeping in the tomb. "Perhaps, Ella, if you reach that spirit home, prepared for all those who love God here; you may look back with grati- tude to these light afflictions through which you are now passing. But it is getting late, and you have something to do if you go to school soon." Ella's only wearable dress was re-modeled by dint of man- aging; some new shoes purchased; and she was fitted out as Nwell as their scanty means would allow. The first day at school was got through with; the contact with new and strange faces, whose rude gaze was very em- barrassing to the lonely little stranger, was patiently endured, and nothing said to mother about it, for fear it might trouble her. So, many days passed, and Ella was soon eagerly pursuing her studies.   CHAPTER XXIV. ELLA S TROUBLES. Sensitive spirit, thou illy canst brook Unkindness in action, in word, or in look. "Heaven hath a hand in these events."' KING JOHN. "MOTHER, I will not, can not bear it!" "Bear what, my child?" "This constant struggle against fate." "Hush, my dear, there's no such thing as fate." "Well, mother, I know more than the rest of the class. I don't mean to say I 'm better, but you and Anna have taught me so much, that I can understand what the other girls only learn; and while they are reviewing the old book, until it seems as if they never would get through one chapter, I must wait, wait, when I long to go on, and learn as fast as I can. I could easily keep up with the next higher class, but some of the girls would be angry if I were promoted, and they were not, and Mrs. Pyncheon would n't dare to offend them. I can go to school only a little while longer, and they can go forever if, they please. "I can not bear to think of you sitting up so late, and sew- ing untl, almost midnight, just to get us something to eat and 10'   226           OLIE. to wear, and I spending my time in school. You have looked so pale since dear father died; I wish I was rich, and you should never work hard. Do let me work too, and help you? "Ellen Brown's mother is very rich, and she is proud and cruel, too. Nobody loves her; yet she has plenty of money, and can have just what she pleases. She knows you, too, mother, and she never speaks to you. Ellen has as many books as she wants. She studies Italian and French, and takes music lessons; and when French day comes, she is either sick, or absent, or has forgotten the place, and she wishes her father would n't make her learn it and music. Why, mother, she can't play one tune right. She has taken lessons three years; and she says she hopes her father will find out before she is gray, that there 's no music in her. He will make her practice two hours a day; and she has a good crying spell every time she sits down at the piano. To-day, I heard the class repeat the French alphabet, and I think I can say it. You know papa taught me a little; and I was just going in the class when I left school before. "Mother, I think I 'd like to stay home awhile; I don't dress as the other girls do; and whenever I cross the school- room, I think they laugh at my boots. All the rest wear low shoes; and mine do squeak so, too. The other day, Lizzy Brown asked me what those things were I had on my feet? She thought an elephant was coming along. And so, w]:en- ever I move, I think all the girls laugh. Then my dress is not made like theirs, and the patches will show. "Only to-day, Jane Norton said to Ellen Brown, 'I g5ucss Ellen Harwood has on her grandmother's frock. "Last Sunday, mother, I met Ellen and Jane. Ellen would   ELLADS TROUBLES.         227 not speak to me; she looked across the street as if she did n't see me, and Jane only bowed very coldly. I suppose it was because I had on that old straw bonnet. You know the girls of our school never wear such bonnets. Then the front is so broad; and they wear such small bonnets now, I know mine looks oddly. "I heard Ellen Brown say, that no genteel person would wear a calico dress to church. So when I went, last Sunday afternoon, I thought every body was looking at my dress, and I tried to cover it up with my big shawl, and put my vail over my bonnet, and waited until the rest were all out; then I walked very slowly down the street. I don't think Ellen saw me that time. "Mother, I wish We were spirits, so we could walk about, 'and go where we please, and listen to those eloquent sermons, that sound to me like music. Sometimes when I hear them, I forget that we are so very poor; I forget all about the world, and think of angels and heaven. I feel as if my soul had wings, and it was going up to a bright, beautiful world. When I hear those sweet hymns sung in church, which we used to sing when we were all together, and dear father was here; when I join in the prayers, I do think God loves me, and I forget how very hard you have to work. "I wish I was monly a spirit, and then I would n't have to have any bonnet or shoes, either. I could have beautiful thoughts and kind feelings; and you should n't work at all , and you would n't have to think every morning what we should eat, and how you could get it. Then, mother, you don't wear any comfortable clothes any more; your shoes are thin and old, and that shawl-it is too bad, mother, for you r , ..   228           O LI E. to wear it. Once you dressed so nicely, Julie Wallace said you had more taste than any lady she knew. Her mother used to wait in the spring to see what you wore before she bought her spring hat. If every body were only like you, mother, how happy we could be. But, mother, there are tears in your eyes; I have done wrong; you are lonely with- out dear father, and I have made you sad. I will try and make you happy. But it is so hard to go to school and feel right. But don't sew any more to-night, you know the doc- tor said you would be sick again if you confined yourself so closely." Mrs. Harwood thought it not best to say much to Ella that night; she knew she was highly excited, and had, perhaps, been more tried than she had acknowledged. Ella was usu- ally so afraid of making her mother trouble, she would endure much without complaining. Poor Ella had not told all her troubles; she had been much annoyed for several days by the marked neglect and ridicule of some of the leading characters in school; who seemed to think the timid, plain-dressed Ella, an appropriate subject of remark. Mrs. Harwood felt the least sorrow of her sensitive child; but she tried to cheer her, by diverting her mind from the sad thoughts which troubled her: so she asked her to read her an interesting story till bed-time. The bursting of a bubble, the utterance of a word, can fill the cup of childish grief to overflowing, and it is as real and bitter for the time, as when years have added their weightiest trials, but with more power to bear. So little can make a child wild almost with happiness, could   ELLA IS TROUBLES.        229 we but realize it, there would be more smiles in the dimmed eyes of the young beings, about us. "Come, my love, it is time to get up," said Mrs. Harwood to Ella the next morning, "the birds are singing merrily; come, let's go and walk this fine morning." Soon, all equipped, they started forth; they left the crowded thoroughfares, and went into the more quiet part of the city. "Mother," said Ella, "I am going to try very hard not to care if any thing does trouble me. I ought to be very thank- ful that I have so good a mother, and that God has made you well. I thought when you were so very sick, if you could only get well, and sit- up once more, I should always be happy. When you talk with me, I think I never can give way to those naughty feelings again." "My dear," said her mother, "I want you to think more of your soul; and, if you cherish kindly feelings, and grateful thoughts, you will be more like happy spirits in heaven. "You can be happy, if God loves you, though you have no earthly friend; with His approval, and constantly adding to your intellectual store, you will be polishing the costly jewel, He has given you, which will sparkle forever. Then, though your dress be far inferior to those about you, your soul can wear those beautiful robes they wear in heaven. God has seen fit to place you just where you are, for good and wise reasons. If you and I ever get to heaven, Ella, as you look back upon this chain of events, you may see that these trials, through which you are passing now, were the very ones which had fitted you for usefulness here and happiness in heaven. And when I can see you patiently bearing insult or injury, cheerfully doing your daily duties, I shall be proud of my Ella.   230           OLIE. "Don't be anxious about what people think, or what they say; act right, though the skies fall-all your life may not be just as it is now. My dear, God has all events in His hands; and when we least expect it, He can do for us the very things we most desire, if we have only the right spirit and it is best for us. "I have always found that blessings most I prized, came unexpectedly; and trials I thought so very great, God would kindly take away or give me strength to bear; but see how brightly the sun is shining on those distant mountains, all at once. Nature wears a smile. Perhaps, even now in our dis- tant future, the Sun of Righteousness is shining over all 'the mountains of our transgressions,' and He can pour sunshine into our souls, perpetual sunshine; and it will chase away all these murmuring feelings, which come like so many shad- ows between us and God. But we must turn our steps home- ward, Ella." "Mother," said Ella, "I thought about Anna's letter last night; and two verses in the little piece of poetry she wrote for you, came to my mind when I awoke this morning-they make me think of what brother Charles said before he died about our all being in heaven together. I did n't think much about heaven then; not so much as I do now." "What verses do you mean, Ella?" "I guess I can repeat them, mother. I always can repeat after once reading any lines that please me. I think those just right for you, mother." ("Why for me, Ella?" "Because you are a Christian; and every thing only makes you better. You know Mr. Barnes said last Sunday, the child   ELLA S TROUBLES.           231 of God who experienced  the most trials here, is soonest ripe for heaven; and when I read   Anna's letter, I thought she must have known what Mr. Barnes preached about. You know he said Christians were sometimes tossed about on a sea of trouble. I am sure he must have meant you, mother." "His sermon was certainly very consoling, Ella; it is very pleasant to think- "The Pilot beside us is steering us still, All 's right l" "I believe Anna always thinks every thing is right," said Ella; a' she always writes so cheerfully, she seems to find the bright side of every thing." "But you have n't repeated the lines, Ella; there was one verse which pleased me very much." "I know which you rwean, mother," said Ella, repeating, What though we 're rudely tossed on Life's adventurous sea, Beset with dangers thick our little bark may be, Entangled 'mid the shoals, or by the tempest driven; The Christian tried the most is soonest ripe for heaven. "What is the next verse, Ella? See if you can repeat it." Ella slowly repeated the next verse. Then wearied, drooping one, a cheering hope is given; Each hour of trial here but brings thee nearer heaven. Nor murmur 'neath the rod, nor yield thee to despair, For each sad moment here, are years of pleasure there. "I hope, Ella, you will cultivate a cheerful, trusting spirit   :;JY           OLIE. and daily offer the prayer expressed in those beautiful lines Anna used to repeat so often: "Father, whate'er of earthly bliss Thy sovereign will denies, Accepted at thy throne of grace Let this petition rise. "Give me a calm, a thankful heart, From every murmur free. The blessings of thy grace impart, And make me live to thee." "I wish I was as good as sister Anna, mother. It seems so easy for her to do right. I know I ought to be grateful, and always trust God, but then some things are so dark; I can't see why they must be so; why other people, no better than you, mother, have so much, and you have so little." "God would not be a very great or wise being, Ella, if you and I could fathom His deep designs: if this world were our home, we might sometimes murmur or be puzzled by mysteri- ous events: we are not promised rest here-there is 'a rest that remaineth.' If God guide us to the port of peace through different and dangerous ways, ' the storms may be all weath- ered' at last." "That 's what brother Charles meant," said Ella, "when he wrote in that little book of his: We 'll not give up our faith for shoals, Nor stress of stormy weather; But o'er each wave we 'll safely glide, And all be moored together. "It won't always do to look around upon our troubles, or   within upon our fears; we must look up, whether all around is black or bright, Ella: and God can give us that peace that passeth knowledge." Just as Ella was going to school that morning, the post- man brought round a letter from Clara, a letter describing her home at Uncle John's.   J      ^    CHAPTER XXV. THE  AD O?TED   H O ME. "She had an earthly mother, and her home was in her heart, And evermore she nestled there, though they were far apart; And earthly sisters too, she had, dear sisters for her love, That clustered round her like the stars, in the bright heaven above." UNCLE JOHN lived in a very pleasant mansion. The pros- pect from all sides was delightful. Wide-spreading trees shaded the winding walks. A poet's muse might catch fervid inspiration from its murmuring streams and classic fountains, its beautiful groves, and vine-covered walls; those walls which had for so many years been claimed by some representative of the proud line of Harwood. When the sunbeams kindled their glory on the distant hills, it all seemed more like a painter's dream, than living, breathing nature. Under a shadowy hill, the little village nestled; and here and there through the trees, might be seen a lonely house, and the church-spire towering up through their green waving branches. A murmuring rivulet crept along the calm, shaded walks, while up the mountain side wound the path to the village church, whose bell echoed among the hills every Sabbath morning, to call the dwellers in the vale to their worship.  Clara loved'poetry, and could sketch with ease and effect any landscape that pleased her   eye. It was a spot well fitted'to develop that passionate love of the beautiful, that fine susceptibility of temperament, so often combined with a love of true poetry. She had climbed every hill, explored the windings of many a green wood. Many a fragment of poetry had she written, while seated on the trunk of some old tree. Within that mansionA she called her home, was luxury in its rarest form, and elegance in its most attractive garb; and without, Nature in her sublimest, wildest, and most picturesque forms. If Nature and Art com- bined could make one happy, Clara was happy. Then, too, she was necessary to one being's comfort and happiness. Uncle John could not do without her, she was so faithful and devoted in her attention to him; constantly watching his changing moods; reading to him, when he felt weary, from the pages of some old book. Uncle John loved the "grand old masters," whose "stately footsteps seemed ever echoing through the corridors of time." The old housekeeper said ," he loved old things so well, she believed if the house should burn down, he would try and find some old wood to build another one out of." ' Old-fashioned carved work he admired; and the spacious room in the old mansion showed some elegant speci- mens of the antique. Paintings of the best artists adorned the walls; and the family portraits, when they became old-fash- ioned, were not sent to the garret, but occupied as important a place as when first- they came from the artist's hand. The modern innovations in dress he never adopted, and he lilked, as well as any thing, the plain title of Uncle John. He was Unele John to every body. He had some fine traits of character; and had lived so long among the good people of the village, they all had for him that respect which superior   236           O LIE. rank and wealth, yet ever kind and condescending manners inspire. Yet he had his failings, as all people have; and as people of decided character are apt to manifest. In this im- perfect world there are few characters so symmetrical that there are not some rough places to be smoothed by discipline, some sharp corners to be chiseled off by that master hand who formed of the clay in which our spirits dwell, vessels of honor and dishonor. Every thing must be as Uncle John said. If he said "black was white," nobody ever thought it best to dispute with him. He was guided very much more by his own ex- perience and observation, than by other people's testimony. He had traveled much, and that had added very much to his confidence in his own knowledge ; and he always respected the opinions of those people more who had seen the world. "' I don't know about it!" was his usual exclamation when any new fact was related him. "It isn't very likely, etc." He was very skeptical, and he manifested this peculiarity in every thing. Clara had acquired a wonderful influence over him. She could, without apparently trying, sometimes persuade him to do what he had really never thought of doing, and he would believe all the time that he was acting by the deictates of his own sober judgment. She was the lady of the establishment; and gracefully did she preside at the board. She was a favorite with the poor. They gave her a most cordial greet- ing; their cottages had for her a strange attraction. The power to make others happy was hers; but then there was nobody like mother, or Anna, to whom she could reveal her inner self, Those around her admired her devotion to   THE ADOPTED HOME.           237 Uncle John, her kindness to the sick, and thought she must be very happy, surrounded by luxury; yet she missed the lov- ing faces for years close by her pillow. When twilight came, there were no arms of affection thrown around her; no words of sympathy, of kindred feeling, whispered in her ear; no one to remark with her how "the shadows lengthen as the sun goes down ;" no one with whom she could travel o'er the green fields of the past, and breathe again its balmy air and fragrant flowers; no one to tell of the feelings and thoughts of the now, the " living present ;" no one with whom to talk of the dreams of the probable future ; no one to compare notes of the book of the heart. A world of feeling she locked up in her heart; a thousand memories clustered there, danced through her brain at night, and to none could she whisper them. Day by day new thoughts came; then there was a fear oppressing her that so many unshared thoughts might make her selfish. Remote from that group of whose sympathetic chain she was so bright a link, she seemed taken away from the light of warm household fires, and placed far off in a clear, yet cloudless sky, all alone; there were no sister stars to blend their rays with hers. It was often very pleasant for her to get absorbed in the page of some interesting book, and commune with the spirits of the gifted departed. She spent hours in the old library. There were sometimes visitors to entertain; ladies whose highest ambition it was to walk, dance, or ride well; and whom Clara found it very difficult to amuse; who listened with silent wonder if she introduced' any other topic than their favorite ones. There was one spot where she felt at home, the old church.   238           OL1.. In its solemn services there was no more frequent or devout worshiper than Clara.  There, "home and its memories visited the spirit: and the heart traveled back over the long interval to its place of repose." There is something in the worship of Jehovah, in the solemn hymn, and deep-toned an- them, awaking and perpetuating the associations of happy childhood; and the early prayer taught by a mother's lip, and father's good-night blessing; all these come, like dew upon the heart, with the words of the precious book, as they fall from the lips of the living preacher; and with spirit kindled into joyful devotion, we join in the same songs which fell upon our ears long ago; the songs learned with our earliest household words. Within the walls of a church new and strange, surrounded by unfamiliar faces, we may join in the worship to a common Father, hallowed and precious by the associations of ever- changing years; no strangers in our Father's house. Far away from home, banished from the " household fires," an exile from the old hearthstone, there, may we forget we are weary pilgrims in life's journey, and look forward "to that nobler rest above," and with " cheerful hope and strong desire" we may anticipate that eternal Sabbath where the worshipers " go no more out forever." Many, many miles away, there were those whose hearts beat with warm affection for Clara; whose prayers ascended with hers to that God whose providence might yet let the "severed household wreath be bound once more ;" and thus, though far apart, their spirits mingled in the incense of de- votion to the Great High-Priest. How many good resolutions go up with the prayer of the   THE ADOPTED ROME.           239 faithful minister! How often do we make firm resolve to forsake earth's vain ambition, and to live for higher, nobler aims than love of earth, wealth, or fame-there we sincerely desire to make it our highest ambition that neither " princi- palities or powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height nor depth, nor any other creature, shall separate- us friom that love which passeth knowledge." There Clara gained strength; she gathered celestial manna for the coming week; she dwelt confidingly in a Heavenly Father's smile, while His loving wing overshadowed her. These Sabbaths are mile-marks on our way to the celestial city. Sometimes we breathe in these sacred hours the per- fume of those flowers growing along' the banks of the river of life. Sometimes we quench our thirst at that clear stream which flows fast by the Eternal's throne, and even the earth- bound chords of the spirit thrill with the melody of grateful joy. The minister was a  pale, thoughtful-looking man, very quiet, save when something unusual excited him; patient in the discharge of daily duties, devoted to the interests of his flock. He was tenderly beloved by all; all looked up to him with respect and admiration. He was uniformly kind, yet reserved and dignified. None knew the depths of his feel- ings, or the warm social sympathies bound up in his heart. In the pulpit, when animated by the importance and sub- limity of his theme to powerful emotion, the fervor of his impassioned eloquence stirred the depths of the hardened sin- ner's heart, as he implored them no longer to reject the love of a dying Saviour. In breathless silence his tearful congre- gation were often rapt; his deep-toned voice grew tremulous,   240           OLIE. as he pointed them to that Saviour, and urged them to look to Him for mercy; aid dwelt with solemn earnestness on the agony of death unprepared, and the fearfulness of that eter- nity to which they were hastening. Then would his eye kindle as he spoke of life, so fleeting, so transient, a bubble, a dream-the " wind passeth over it and it is gone"-yet full of consequence, as the type and title- page of an unfolding, ever-living and endless future ; and then he portrayed Heaven with its glories, the land of harp, of bliss, of song. Again and again did he urge every heavy-laden spirit to come unto Christ, that life might be happy, death triumph- ant, and the prospect of Heaven sure and glorious. Many a heart owed its first serious impressions to his solemn ap- peals. When bending over the coffins of the dead, or /laying on his hand in baptism, to his people long blessed by his solemn ministrations, he seemed like a being supernatural, whom God had lent them, and who could not long be with them. Young and old were brought into the folds of the church by the blessing of God upon his labors. While he stood in the desk, the sacred word, With a strange almighty power had stirred The depths of the hardened sinner's heart, And had bade the soul from its sins depart; While the gentle spirit lent its power, And woo'd and won that blessed hour. How enviable the position of a faithful minister!- He surely will have trials, but he has the blessing of grateful, devoted eonarts; the fieqluent and fervent petitions going up from   THE ADOPTED H O'ME.          241 many lips; and the dews from  Heaven, thus descending in perpetual and ceaseless benedictions on his head. Fearful is his responsibility, yet precious his reward. Quite often the minister came to Uncle John's, and no visit did the old man prize more. He was so patient in list- ening to all Uncle John's sage reflections, so ready to hear all his plans for the improvement'of the neighborhood, so court- eous and respectful in his manners, he was one of the very few with whom Uncle John had no fault to find. He ioften dined at the hall. Clara was always studious in consulting the wants of her guest, yet seldom joined in conversation with him; only showing by her animated and ever-varying expression, how deeply interested she was in any topic. She was an eloquent listener. Her tell-tale face was a per- fect mirror, catching and revealing every passing emotion. Clara was so lonely at Uncle John's, these conversations of Mr. Leland's were a source of great pleasure. Mr. Leland and Uncle John would often differ in sentiment, but Mr. Leland would listen so patiently and respectfully to Uncle John's peculiar opinions, that the old man was never offended by his plainness. "   CHAPTER XXVI. SEWING   SOCIETY  IN ELMVILLE. "And all hearts do pray, ' God love heri' Ay, in certes, in good sooth AWe may be all sure He doth." MS BAwBrTT. THERE was a sewing society in Elmville, at Mrs. Smith's. It was, as Mrs. Green said, " a general turn out." The ladies were all busily sewing and talking; the object, -f the most interest seemed to be the new teacher. "How do you like the new teacher, Mrs. Smith V!" said Mrs. Brown. "I have not seen much of her myself, but the girls can't say too much about her. My Lucy seems clear carried away with her; says she wishes they could have school all night too, she would never get tired. And when Saturday comes, the girls all seem so uneasy, they don't know what to do with them- selves." "She looks very young," said Mrs. Brown. "Quite too young," remarked Miss Prudence Potter. "No person of her age can have that discretion and judgment necessary for the care of young and tender minds, to instill correct principles, and set, on all occasions, an example of .per- fect propriety. Children need constant admonishing; left to J'   SEWING    SOCIETY IN ELMU VILLE  .   243 themselves, they will never imbibe .correct principles. It is contraly to my ideas to allow a young person to have the care of youth. Experience, Mrs. Smith, age and experience only, should be intrusted with so important a charge." "Yes, she must be young," said Mrs. Smith;  "she has never taught before, I believe; and every body wonders how she learned to manage so." "Perhaps her youth is in her favor," said Mrs. Green; " she seems to sympathize in all their feelings and plans, and out of school she is their firm  friend. My little Lizzy cries right hard if she can't go often to see her. I can't get by the house, she will cry to go in. I was afraid Miss Harwood would n't like it; but Saturday, the children took her in, and they had a great time; Lizzy looked over all the pictures, and listened to Miss Harwood's stories; the children could n't get her away, until Miss Harwood told her she might come to school Monday, and sit by her awhile; and that pacified her. She has a remarkable way with her to get all their hearts, and they'll do any thing for her, any of them. Why my Jane will run her feet 'most off of her any time, and Susan will learn very long lessons to please her; that, Susan would never do before for any one, she was too lazy, but somehow Miss Har- wood has got on the right side of her." "Well," said Mrs. Williams, "I thought at first there was no use in sending Julia, I could teach her some at home; but her father wanted to have her go, and she learns very fast. She talks about school all the morning till she starts; and she feels very bad if she can't have something to take to Miss Htarwood every day--some fruit or some flowers; and the other night she came home crying, because one of the   244           OLI E; girls had had her seat all the afternoon, and she could not sit by Miss Harwood. Have you called on her, Mrs. Hill?" "i Yes, I called soon after she came; I'm never any hand to call on strangers, and I did n't like to go alone; but Mr. Hill said I ought to go, so I fixed up and went. I expected to find a tall, slim, oldish-looking lady--" "A school-mistress," interrupted Miss Prudence, "should be a dignified, mature-looking person. It is quite desirable that she should be tall and erect; a dignified manner has a great impression upon the young." "Well, I went, and could hardly believe my eyes," said Mrs. Hill: "she looked so very young, and was so small, too; she seemed just like a little girl. She seemed as glad to see me as if she had known me always. 'Ah! this is Jane's mother,' said she; ' and this is that little Willie, Jane talks so much about'--and soon she was frolicking with him. Willie never took such a fancy to any body before. I can hardly ever get him to go to strangers at all. She seemed so happy, and her cheeks were so rosy, and her eyes shone so bright, I did n't wonder the children loved her; but it was 'a mystery to nze how she made them mind." "I am fearful your young teacher will too often be familiar with her pupils, and not maintain strict order and discipline," said Miss Prudence. "Well, but she does," said Mrs. Clapp; " she raps once in a while on that desk of hers, and every whisper is hushed. They don't seem to be afraid of her, though, only afraid to displease her. She never scolds, but when they do any thing wrong, or seem to take advantage of her, she will speak in such a way as to make them heartily ashamed, and they'll   behave better than all -the -rest after that. There 's that wild thing, Jane Hunt, whom nobody ever did tame; she learns as fast as any of them, and behaves as well, too; they say. I really should laugh to see her sitting sober in school, studying -nobody ever saw it before, I guess." -"Don't she overtask their minds by requiring too many compositions?" said Miss Prudence Potter. "A great deal of time is consumed in that way. I'm afraid they don't devote as much time to reading and orthography as they-should. Imperfect spelling is one of the crying evils in the present system of education." "They do write a good many," replied Mrs. Hunter, " but Miss Harwood says, when she came half of them had never 'written at all; and those who did write could only write a few lines, She said she was always scrupulously exact in instruct- ing her pupils in orthography. She said she considered it an important part of education. They had never been taught to think; and where she finds the most need she goes to work. So she got them all around her one day, talking on some sub- ject; she talked, and they too, and she got them all to say something; and then, after talking awhile, she made them all write down what they had been talking about, and all they thought of it-showing them how to begin. -Some wrote very slowly; of course it took some ti;ne, and they did n't read or spell much that afternoon, I suppose; but before school closed, every scholar had a composition written on her slate. Before they knew it, some of them had written long ones. "My Jane: brought her's home, and really it sounded very well. Nobody ever got a. composition out of her before. She   246           OLI . had made every body else, and me, too, believe she never could write one. The girls all looked so happy when they came home, I declare I wished I was a school-girl myself. Somehow she made them all think; and after she got them into it, they learned fast enough. Now she has them tell the text every Monday morning, and some of the sermon, too; they may write it off if they please, but she'd rather they 'd remember, and tell her. "She is so pleased if they succeed, that they all try hard; and then she talks too, and makes it all so interesting, they like to have Monday morning come. "My Jane used to go to sleep in- meeting, but now she pays close attention; and last Sunday, when she came home, she told over ever so much of the sermon. I couldn't, for the life of me, see how she remembered so much. Miss Sally Smith told me, when she saw her in church the first Sunday, she looked too young to make much of a teacher; she would n't be able to manage our wild country girls. She thought, after she 'd get a going, she 'd step over and give her some advice; she didn't believe she could get along alone. But I guess if she has her own way she 'll do well enough. "Miss Sally has taught some herself in her day, and I sup- pose she thinks things must go on just as they used to." "Well," said Mrs. Jenks, " my Rachel was in a great taking to go to school, all the girls talked so much about the new teacher. She has been sick so mu6h, I was afraid to risk it; but finally I went with her. "The first day she came home and said Miss Harwood said she looked too delicate to sit still all the time; so she made her change her seat often, and sometimes go out and sit under f   SEWING SOCIETY IN ELMVILLE.        247 the tree and study. She told her she need not get as long lessons as the rest, and she would hear her separately--though she could always come in the class when they recited, so as to hear all the explanations. This pleased Rachel wonderfully- she had been so afraid the class would, laugh at her for being so backward. "RachePs health is better, now' she is learning something. Aunt Susan says she never saw a child alter so. She seems happy, too; and Uncle William says she is really growing handsome. Mr. Jenks and I are very grateful to Miss Harwood for her kindness to her. She lends her books, too; and her father got hold of one the other night, and I never saw him so much interested in any thing before.' Then Mrs. Harding said, "There's as great a change in Mary Martin as any body, she looks so much happier since Miss Harwood came. Lottie says she studies every minute she can get; she's an uncommon girl; uncommonly smart. I should think she never could have learned as much in so short a time; poor thing, I'm glad she's found somebody to take an interest in her. I never saw her till the other day; I'd often heard about Mary Martin, but I supposed it was some child of Aunt Sally's. I was very much interested in her when I first saw her pass, and the girls told me who she was. She dressed very miserably; I think something must be done for her, she really is too bright-looking a girl to be neglected. "Lottie says Miss Harwood instructs her out of school hours. There's a great change come over Lottie too; she cried bitterly at first, to think she must go to a country school again, after having so long attended a fashionable   248           O LIE. boarding-school; but she 's getting over that now; she really believes Miss Harwood knows every thing; she talks about her constantly. "Lottie says the only decent dress Mary Martin has worn since she first saw her, is one, she is sure, Miss Harwood wore when she first came: they have hard times at Aunt Sally's, I guess. I heard yesterday that they had had no but- ter in the house for a month. Mary is too proud to say any thing about their troubles, but she's growing thin; very thin, Lottie says." i"Well," said Mrs. Green, , my daughter has learned more in a few weeks than in all her life before. She went a whole year to the Greenville seminary, where her father paid so much, and she did n't begin to learn as she does now.' Mrs. White thought the teacher would have her head full of city notions; she had attended fashionable schools, and had had a rich father too; and she would n't know how to get along with their plain country manners. "Bless your heart," said Mrs. Jones, " you'd think to see her she'd lived with us always." Then said Mrs. Hill, "Yes, I shall always love her for her kindness to my poor Mary. She'd only been to school a week, when she was taken very sick. I did n't suppose Miss Harwood would notice it; but she came to see her right away, and she talked to her like a minister. Then she brought her fresh flowers every day, and it did Mary so much good; I really believe more good than all the doctor's stuff she took. We are so poor, too; she ain't a bit proud, if she is so much of a lady. I believe she is a real true Christian, and that makes her so lovely. I wish we could keep her always."   SEWING SOCIETY IN ELMVILLE.         249 "'Well, I guess we'll all have to go to school," said Mrs. Smith, who was the president of the sewing society, as the ladies put up their work. "I wonder if Miss Anna's ears don't burn this afternoon." Anna had some trials; she was afraid the people would n't like her plans; and one day Mrs. Giles said that one of the girls told Ellen that her mother was going to take her out of school, because Miss Harwood kept them writing so many compositions. Now this happened to be the very little girl, who had always thought she could not write; and she had been so sadly neglected, and felt badly because the other girls could write so much better than she could. Anna had taken great pains with her, more than with any of the others, and she really was quite delighted with her success. This remark troubled her sensitive spirit, and she had a good crying spell about it. So she made up her mind that night, .that that girl at least should write no more compositions for one while; she would keep her reading and spelling all the time.. In the morning she altered her resolution. The girl's mother might be ignorant;- she would pursue her own plan; she might change her opinion yet; she would pay more at- tention to other things, perhaps she had thought .too much about com2positions. Poor Anna did not know how often people say more than they mean; and then children don't always get things straight. She thought it would be much better, if parents have any ob- jection to a course pursued by a teacher,- to speak to her of it, and say nothing to children. It has a bad effect upon schol- ars to object to the plan pursued with them. When, at the close of the quarter, Anna asked the ladies to ".   250           OLIE. come in and hear some recitations and compositions, the little girl's composition so pleased and surprised all, that her mother was very proud, and now praised the teacher more thaft ever. It was the best in the class; Anna had known all the time that she would excel if especial pains was taken with her. Little Ellen remained with her all the time she was in Elm- ville, and when she left, nobody was more sorry than Mrs. Stone; no other teacher ever would take so much pains with Ellen. Thus did the seed sown in tears reap a harvest in a mother's gratitude, and a young mind's rapid development, and a young heart's warm affections. But the remark did Anna good, after all, she was careful afterward not to give any undue attention to any one thing. Neither ministers nor teachers should have their hobbies. She did n't have many remarks to trouble her-true, lMiss Prudence Potter did say she was afraid Miss Harwood had too many new-fangled notions in her school-then she thought every scholar ought to mark a sampler, as she did, when she was a girl, they 'd look so nice hung up in frames; and they'd have something to show when they'd done going to school. Miss Potter was one of those people whose ov n opinion and observation is the foundation of all true phi- losophy; and her idea of a perfect school, was the one she used to have, some years ago, over Mr. Jones' store. She could not realize that a school conducted so very differently from hers could be at all orthodox; and she was ever afraid the girls' heads would be turned. "Sometimes," she said, ' she got so worked up about it, she thought she must go and tell the young teacher just how she used to do, and give her a few   SEWING   SOCIETY  IN ELMVILLE.     251 hints." I do so, and I did so, were the unfailing arguments which Miss Prudence used, and there was no logic, in her es. timation, strong enough to refute them. Having no family of her own to look after, Miss Prudence took the cause of Education and Religion, in the little village of Elmville, into her especial care and keeping; and seemed to feel that a constant and weighty responsibility rested upon her slender shoulders. Living near the school, and overlooking the play-ground, she heard every girlish laugh which was too boisterous, and ob- served every recess which was too protracted. Very few de- viations from strict propriety or rigid decorum among Anna's scholars escaped her observation; and Anna was quite sure when she saw Miss Prudence's tall form, drab bonnet, and green shawl coming toward the door, that she was about to receive some new piece of advice, or valuable suggestion. Two or three of the least sedate and circumspect of Anna's pupils so highly appreciated Miss Prudence's ever-vigilant care and interest in their daily deportment, and attracted by the undisturbed beauty of the unbroken rows of violets, lilies, and roses bloomniing in her front yard, they would often stealthily seize them and bear them away as precious memento's of her kindly admonition. Little Dick Williams, the wag of the village, always called her the presiding Elder.   CHAPTER XXVII. WHAT COMES OF THNKING        ALOUD. "God's holy word, once trivial in his vieW, Now, by the voice of his experience, true, Seems, as it is, thie fountain whence alone Must spring that hope he pants to make his own." CoWPEr. ONE week of Clara's life seemed a type of all the rest, there were few incidents of importance or peculiar interest. She often walked early in the morning, and the fresh air seemed to keep up that elasticity which once more congenial excite- ment sustained. She was becoming better acquainted with the people; and they learned to look forward to her visits with pleasure. Every child in the region knew Miss Clara; and the laborer touched his hat respectfully as she passed along. Uncle John seemed more benevolent now, since his home was cheered by such a warm young heart-she had much influence over him, and if the servants wanted any favor, they would come to her first, and she would persuade him to grant it. There's nothing like tact; and Clara had it in an uncom- mon degree-and gradually Uncle John came to think that one who succeeded in doing every thing for him to a charm, must be a pretty wise person, after all. If she was gone very   WHAT COMES OF THNKING ALOUD.        253 long, he was uneasy. He seemed anxious lest something should deprive him of her invaluable society. He always looked happier when she was near him. While Uncle John was out one day, he was suddenly over- taken by a shower. He had taken a long walk, and had not watched the gathering of the heavy clouds, which come up so suddenly some seasons of the year. He was not very well when he went, and Clara urged him not to be gone long. With the pertinacity peculiar to his nature, he kept on his way, regardless of the fast-falling drops, unwilling to stop until he rested beneath his own roof. He was thoroughly wet when he reached home, and had taken a violent cold; which resulted in a long fit of illness, confining him to his room for weeks. Nobody-but Clara could get his food, or smooth his pillow; and nobody else could give him any medicine. She would fold the curtains to let just light enough in the room-she did n't make any noise as she moved about; then she knew just what he wanted without asking him   She would, make his tea just strong enough; and the toast was always just right, nicely browned, a very little moist, and just butter enough to taste. She made excellent broth too, seasoned just right. He seemed very grateful for her constant care and at- tention. He had always avoided conversation on religion, and had, for years, asserted his firm conviction that there was nothing in it. For a few days he seemed very sober; and one day he asked Clara- to read to him from the Bible. "Clara, my dear," said he, " do you understand that book?"   254           OLIE. "Some of it I do, uncle; and every day more light seems to gleam from some precious passage." "My father was an avowed infidel, Clara; he never read the Bible at home, though there was one in the old library, covered with dust. I read romance and poetry, history, and biography, but I never read a page of that old Bible. I have lived here long, all alone. Since Mary died, I have often murmured because God took away from me so early the wife of my youth; and then when a kind sister, who knew all my peculiarities, was taken, I was desolate; but I had one little flower left, my darling Annette. Bitterly I complained when she too drooped; and as I looked my last on her pale face, ere the coffin was closed forever, my heart rose against God. "The still walls of the old house only made my heart ache. Gold could not give me back my dead. That I had hoarded up for one as lovely as you, Clara--m only child. She found her way into my heart; and I meant that she should be the pride of these old halls; she should inherit her father's name and fortune. "Wife, sister, child, all were gone; and I was alone. The means at my command only seemed a mocking misery. "Your father was my only brother; very unlike me he was. I was some years his senior, and always expected to be his counselor ins all his plans. I was opposed to his partner- ship with Mr. Howland; and from that time I had no com- munication with him. "His sudden death has awakened a host of recollections; and since I have been lying on this sick bed, I have remem- bered his early kindness and affection, but I can not speak of them now. You came, Clara, and there has been music in   WHAT COMES OF THNKING ALOUD.        255 these old halls. Your care and kindness, your pleasant smile, and constant attention, have made an old man happy. "To-day, some of those verses you read me are constantly coming in my mind; and if I am ever well again, we will read the Bible together. "Your father was a Christian, I believe, Clara. He seemed much changed when quite a boy, after visiting an old friend of my mother's, whom every body thought a very good man. He used to stay by himself and read a little book, which I afterward found was a Bible, which this gentleman had given him. I would laugh at him for his new notions, but he al- ways maintained them; and once he begged me to let him read me some passages in it; one was this: 'Whosoever liv- eth and believeth in me shall never die ;' and this passage I have never forgotten. "This is a new theme, Clara, for me. I have never felt so before; and never have I spoken thus :to any human being. I am tired now, and you need the air. If you shut yourself up with an old man all the time, the roses will fade on those cheeks." Clara had remained silent during this unexpected disclos- ure, yet her heart was full of gratitude. It was a relief to her when alone sometimes, to express her feelings aloud. She descended to the drawing-room, and seated herself on a low stool, and leaning her head on her hand, exclaimed: "Poor Uncle John, down deep in that steel-clad heart, there are earnest longings for something better. How much good there is in every heart! I wish Mr. Leland could talk with him; H am so ignorant I can not guide him. Thank God, I have something to live for."   256           OLIE. During Clara's conversation with her uncle, she had been too much absorbed to notice the ringing of the door-bell. Mr. Leland had been ushered into the drawing-room. Jane had asked him in; and hearing some noise in the hall at- tracting her attention, had gone thither, before she announced his-coming to Uncle John. Meantime, Clara had descended into the drawing-room, and overpowered by new and grateful feelings, she concluded her soliloquy aloud, "Thank God, I have something here to live for." Mr. Leland was in a most embarrassing position. Clara evidently thought herself alone, and he could not retreat without being seen. He arose, and coming forward, expressed his regret for being accidentally an intruder, and his gratification at the remark to which he had been an unintentional listener. "I am so accustomed to being alone here, Mr. Leland," said Clara, "I am very careless, and often find myself think- ing aloud, not fearing the presence of these walls, my only auditors; and this morning I was so happy, a new life seemed opened before me. There is so great a change in Uncle John's feelings, I feel willing to hope he may soon look to the right source for direction and consolation. I can talk to him freely on subjects so dear to me, and which I have kept so long locked up in my heart. I wish you could draw forth his feelings; perhaps you might remove some of the doubts gathered around his mind by the neglect and unbelief of years." "Miss Clara," said Mr. Leland, " your example is a reproach to me; I have long sought anxiously some avenues by which I could find my way into his heart. But he has foiled every   WHAT COMES O F THNKING ALOUD.        '257 attempt; polite and courteous on all other topics, there was one to which he avoided the least allusion, and coolly repelled any approach. If in any way you have gained access to a heart on which I -have sought for -years to make some im- pression, I am grateful to God, and I shall have a new stimu- lus for exertion in the future. I have been too unbelieving-- God's spirit can penetrate any barrier, though made by educa- tion and association high and broad. We have many things to teach us humility, Miss Clara." "And many to inspire our faith," said she; "I have looked upon Uncle John's heart as beyond the reach of any sacred in- fluence, one of those God's spirit passes unmoved." Just then the physician came in, and Mr. Leland left, say- ing, " he would call the next morning; it would not be best perhaps for him to go up to see Uncle John now." Uncle John had never had constantly before him a practical example of Christian faith, until Clara became an inmate of his house. He had seen her constantly patient and kind, for- bearmg and yielding, when her conscience was not opposed- gratifying every wish of his; and he had come to, the conclu- sion that something more than ordinary amiability was the cause of her cheerful enduring spirit. He had recently noticed with what punctuality she retired to her room at a regular hour every morning; and once, he had the curiosity to follow her. As he passed the threshold, he heard a low voice in prayer; she prayed for him, that -.he might learn to love and worship that God to whom he owed so many mercies. He went quietly back, but tears, the first tears for years,' moistened his eyes.   258           O tfi "What a strange girl," said he. "There must be some. thing in that faith of hers. Why don't I pray for myself! She has made a perfect child of me P" All that day he was unusually thoughtful, there was some- thing very kind in his manner, very kind and tender to Clara. The next day he was taken ill, and Clara's reading had called forth the expression giving herself and Mr. Leland so much pleasure. How many thoughts passed through Clara's mind, while the doctor went up to see him. She was glad Mr. Leland knew Uncle John's changed feel- ings, -but wondered how she had dared talk so freely with him. It was the first time for months she had opened her heart to any one. So unexpected was the interview, she had forgotten his usual reserve, and her timidity. "Mother always said I must not talk so much aloud to my- self, because somebody might yet hear me. I am glad after all Mr. Leland knows Uncle John's state of mind." Clara was soon called up stairs, and her train of thought interrupted. Mr. Leland seldom expressed his thoughts to any one freely. He boarded with a very good sort of woman; a fine house- keeper, who kept his room in excellent order, it was always just warm enough in winter and sufficiently cool in summer. Her husband was very much like her, systematic and punc- tual in business. With both, the minister was a decided favorite-but neither were companions for him. Mrs. West was often troubled lest he might injure himself by studying so late at night. He was very fond of her little boy, often taking him up, and telling   WHAT COMES OF THNKING ALOUD.        259 him stories. Little George and his mother both thought there was nobody like him. Walter Leland was the only son of a wealthy gentleman, a man highly educated, boasting much of ancestral pride and name-having a high sense of honor, and proud of his son, in whom he early saw the elements of true greatness of charac- ter. Upon his education he bestowed uncommon pains; he made him familiar with the best authors of his own, and other times, and when very young, Walter was versed in classic lore. His father early instilled into his mind the principles of the Romish faith, impressing upon him the importance of a due attention to all its forms. In early life he had married an ac- complished woman, some years his junior. She inherited her mother's beauty and constitution; and upon her had fallen the mantle of her Christian faith. A strong attachment- had existed between herself and Mr. Leland, before his open avowal of his creed; and with woman's strong devotion, yet erring judgment, she yielded to his en- treaties to share his destiny-he, promising never to interfere with her faith; she, hoping that he -might finally renounce his creed, not knowing that it had become a part of the frame- work of his mind. Faithfully he kept his promise; but when Walter was edu- cated, there was a struggle; the mother could not bear to have him taught that faith in her heart she believed to be wrong. But her health was fast failing. Walter's mind was daily expanding, he spent many hours with his father in the library. Mrs. Leland ardently loved her boy; she knew his would   260           OLIE. be an active life, that he would exert a powerful influence on the minds of those with whom he mingled-she commended him in prayer to God, and earnestly sought. His blessing upon him. As spring approached, she grew weaker, and was soon con. fined to her bed. Walter almost idolized his mother, and when the fearful conviction came upon his mind that she must die, he could not bear to leave her bedside. Mr. Leland's duties called him then often and long away. These hours alone in sacred and affectionate communings, were to mother and child very precious. She knew that only a few more days were hers on- earth, and she wanted to look forward to a meeting with her boy in heaven. Walter believed her right, and when he received her dying blessing, he resolved to live by his mother's faith. He had not the courage to disclose his sentiments to his father for a long time; while daily familiarity with the Rom- ish system only disgusted him with its heartless ceremonies. But when at last his father alluded to his preparing to take orders, he openly declared his solemn purpose to adopt his mother's faith, and if God should give him grace, to become an humble minister of the cross. Indignant that his son should dare thus to differ from him, with all his proud hopes crushed at a blow, without a promise of forgiveness, his father sent him out on the wide world. "Leave thy father's home," said he, "and never again darken its threshold with thy shadow. Look out on this broad domain, these trees under lwhose branches you have   W i   LA'T J ML JI N:i O U 1' 'I I N L N i AL UUDA, UV1 played in childhood, they might all have been yours, and if a father's faith you leave, go, and a father's curse go with you." The next Sabbath, the priest thus publicly excommunicated him: "I give him my curse.; may God the Father curse him; may God the Son curse him; and may the Holy Ghost curse him. I curse him in the name of all the faithful of this con- gregation, and in the name of all the holy angels and saints; and I curse with him all who are intending to leave us." Rich in that inheritance that fadeth not away, resolved to be a devoted minister of that faith for which he had re- signed his earthly all, Walter went forth relying on the pro- tection of Heaven. No wonder that a shadow rested on his brow, the shadow of'a mother's death and a father's curse. In a few years, he was an earnest and self-denying minister of Christ;- eloquently showing, in his life and preaching, the power of Christianity. Providence had directed his steps to the village of -- , here for years-he labored faithfully. There, proud of wealth- and prouder'still of his name and lands, lived Uncle John. Often had the poor old man been touched by sorrow. Thrice had death's angel winged his flight and passed over his threshold; and laid upon his loved and loving ones an icy hand, until no endeared one responded to his greeting, yet " despising the long-siuffering and forbear- ance of God" until now, had he lived, when the still small voice of a young Christian's prayer'touched his heart. Mr. Leland he- had always liked to welcome to his hospital- ity, while with his faith he had no sympathy. A long'time had he wandered on the dark mountains of unbelief, and like a child could only gradually learn to come forth into the 'full liberty of the Gospel, where the warm   262           oLiPE rays of the Sun of Righteousness couild dispel the mists of infidelity. Mr. Leland called often during his illness; hour after hour he spent in explaining the doctrines of the Christian faith, and he had the satisfaction of seeing his mind gradually enlight- ened by the Holy Spirit, and with returning health there was the consciousness of sins forgiven. Clara had not been so happy for a long time, as when clothed in his right mind, Uncle John sat by her side, in the old pew, and joined in the worship of God. Never was there a more attentive listener than the old man, as Walter Leland, taking for his theme, "I am the resurrection and the life," raised the souls of his congregation to a crucified and arisen Saviour. Tears were in the eyes of many, as the old man bent his head to receive the baptismal water. No wonder that both he and Clara prized the visits of their spiritual guide; the ice of reserve was broken, and the minis- ter, prized perhaps as much as they, their sympathy and confidence. In Mr. Leland, Clara found a firm friend; he brought her books to read-assisted her in any plan for the benefit of the poor; sometimes she met him in the cottages of the poor- his consoling words, his sympathy, his untiring devotion to his duties won all her respect and esteem. He made no effort ever to entertain, yet he was every where always a welcome guest. "Clara," said Uncle John one day, "I have a letter from your cousin George, he is coming to make us a visit. He has been traveling about since he left college, and, as I have been   WHAT COMES 0P TaINXrIN       ALOUD.  263 his guardian and his nearest living relative, I feel much inter est in him. His mother was my darling sister; his father was an officer in the army. His mother died a year after hearing of his death-he was killed on the battle-field "He used to be a harum-scarum fellow; he made the whole house ring with his mirth when he was here. I don't know how much college walls have sobered him. "His father indulged him, and his mother never denied one request. When a boy he often roamed- over these hills. The west room he has often occupied, and he feels more at home there than any where else, so we 'll let him have it now. So, Mrs. Hostess, you may see that it is ready for its old occu- pant. I presume it will want dusting; it has been locked up long?' Uncle John's voice trembled as he spoke.   CHAPTER XXVIII. UNCLE JOHNrS WEST ROOM. They laid her by her mother's side, in quiet, dreamless rest; Oh, often to that mother's heart had her's been warmly prest; Yet now, yet now, she heedeth not her darling little one, And in unbroken, solemn rest, they both were slumb'ring on. UNCLE JOHN'S housekeeper was a very kind old lady; she had lived with him many years. When quite young she had married, and lived for some time happily; but her husband became intemperate, and treated her very cruelly.   She left him, and a year after, Mrs. Harwood persuaded her to come and live with her, and take the management of her household affairs. She had been brought up by an aunt, her mother's youngest brother's wife, who was a Scotchwoman, from whom she learned many of the words peculiar to the Scotch dialect; and she would often inweave them with her mother tongue. She was an excellent housekeeper, and very kind and attentive to Mrs. Harwood during her long illness; and when Mrs. Harwood died, all the care of household matters devolved upon Nelly. She knew where every thing was; what was in every drawer and corner; just how many pillow-cases, sheets, towels, etc., there were in the house, and how many there always had been. She was a living, practical illustration of the great, yet ancient household motto--"A place for every   UNCLE JOHNIS WEST ROOM.         265 thing, and every thing in its place;" and though a very peaceable body, she was a bitter enemy to dust. The largest development in her brain seemed to be the organ of order; and of all the faculties which she possessed in a good degree, that of memory was the most remarkable. Uncle John called her his concordance. If any one was at a loss to know just what day of the month any thing happened, they could go to Nelly, and she could always tell them all the when's, how's, and where's of every event in the family history, great or small, and what people said and thought about them. If a letter were read in her hearing, or a sermon preached, she could repeat, word for word, any sentence that particu- larly attracted her attention. Her recollection of events which had happened long years ago, was more vivid than that of re- cent occurrences. She sometimes expressed herself very correctly, and had learned snatches of old Scotch songs from her aunt, who had a great fondness for the melodies of her native tongue. She was what critics of human nature would call a character; and without having learned any thing from books, her store of ideas was large. She had been an indefatigable gleaner in the fields of observation, and a faithful disciple of the old, rigid pedagogue, experience. She had hoarded up many old anecdotes, with which she entertained the servants at night. The long winter evenings were much enlivened by her ready wit and amusing stories. With all her other peculiarities, she had a large, honest heart, which clung warmly and clung strongly round every one she loved: and when sickness came, she never seemed weary, but long days and nights her hand was ever ready to minister relief. Every body regarded her 12   266           OLIE. as one of the stationary fixtures of Uncle John's establishment. She was linked with every meeting and parting, every bridal and every burial; the sincere sympathizer in every sorrow, and the efficient doer where action was needed, and nobody to act. Of her might it be said, when the cold earth should cover her, and said truly and emphatically by all who formed a part of the, group at the Hall, "she hath done what she could." There are beings in the world who have more polished man- ners, and more highly cultivated minds, but few of whom it can be said with so much truth, she did "with her might what her hands found to do." One day Nelly came in to Clara to get a key, which she said was in the west room. "How do you know it is there?" said Clara. "Oh, I remember a great while ago, when Mrs. Grace died, some keys were left on the table in the west room; and as nobody seemed to put up any thing then, I laid them in the drawer, in the library. I know that key was among them, for it was larger than the rest, and had a little black string attached to it. It was the key to a trunk in which General Harwood kept his old papers; and to-morrow there is to be some business done, something about the property, I believe, and he will want the key. I thought I would come in now, while I had leisure, and ask you to open the room for me.' "Is it locked, Nelly ." "I think it is. General Harwood always kept it locked; he thought nobody would want to go there any more, and there are so many things there which he thinks are very pre- cious, I suppose it may as well be locked. It is a very '5   UNCt0s Jon   's WEST ROOM.       261 pleasant room Miss Clara, many's the time I have walked backward and forward in it, with Master George, when he was a wee bairnie. He was once very sick, and I carried him in my arms mony a long night. He would ask me sometimes for a lower, as he called it, and I would bring him fresh flowers every day, and Mrs. Grace would make little wreaths for him." "Who was Mrs. Grace, Nelly?" "She was General Harwood's sister, the youngest, and only one living; and naebody ever saw a more winsome ladie. She was as fair as a lily, and then she had such mild blue een; they were the color of your uncle's before his faded; eyes fade, I think, Miss Clara. That is her portrait in the west room. She was not very well when it was taken, she had grieved so sair, and she looked pale-like, and your uncle with his queer speeches couldn't make her smile. She looked beautiful, as she always did, though with that mournful light in her een, and if you'd see her-' onywhere there was that about her you' d find nae ither where,' Miss Clara. She used to go over these hills like a bonnie bird, late and airly, you 'd see her; and she grew up among the flowers the fairest of them a'. I used to think if she only had wings she would look like an angel." "How long was she here, Nelly 2" "She lived here until she was seventeen, and then she went with her mother to visit some friends at the South-they were only going to stay a few weeks. They had pleasant weather, and the first part of their sail down the Mississippi was delightful. But after a while something happened to the boat-I   think it took fire-the pilot steered for the shore, it +   YVVU           VU X 1 DL * was fastened by a rope, and the rope suddenly gave way, and they were out in deep water again. Most of the passengers were burned, or drowned. "There was a young officer on board, Captain Hamilton; he saved himself and Miss Grace; they were on a plank together a long time, floating in the river; they were alone in God's world, as the letter said afterward; and then they promised fidelity to each other: there were no witnesses to their vows, only the stars way off in the blue sky. They promised, if they lived, to live together, and if the wide waters were their winding-sheet, to die together. The letter is now in the library, and it said that never was troth plighted with more fearful and solemn earnestness. After floating some hours, they were picked up by a vessel, and were soon on their way to New Orleans. .They stood together on the vessel's deck and were married by an Episcopal clergyman who happened to be on the vessel; though Captain Hamilton offered to release Miss Grace from her promise if she wished it. "When they reached New Orleans, Grace was his proud and devoted wife; and there, to her joyful surprise, she found her mother, who had been saved in a boat in which she was placed by one of the passengers. She greeted cordially her new son-in-law, and her daughter's deliverer. "Your Uncle John had heard of the accident, and sup- posed that all were lost; he grieved day and night; the only news he had was a paper saying I that most of the passengers were drowned.' But one day a letter came in the well- known handwriting. It was from Miss Grace. "There was great joy here then, Miss Clara, a weight was   off of all our hearts when James brought the letter in and handed it to your uncle, he looked almost wild with joy. "The letter was read to all of us servants; we all sat in the servant's hall, and there was not a dry eye among them, I can tell you, Miss Clara. "Your uncle wrote immediately, urging her to come back with her husband to her old home. The west room was fitted up; I hung the curtains and fixed every thing just as I knew Miss Grace always liked it. In two months after she wrote, she came back.  She looked sweeter than ever, but 'quieter like;' there was a happy smile on her face. Her husband was a handsome, noble-looking man, and every one liked him very soon. It seemed like having one back from the grave, to see Mrs. Grace walking about. "The months were like days then; Captain Hamilton said they flew by on the ' wings of peace.' Little George looked like both father and  mother. He did just what he pleased with his Uncle John, climbed up on his chair, smothered him with kisses, and played with his gray locks. It did a body's auld eyes good to see the bairnie going about close by the auld man on the hills, and down by the river. I've watched them mony a   time from my window. "Twelve years passed, and the country was in danger. Captain Hamilton had been a brave officer, and he was ap- pointed by government to take one of the most important positions in the army. He  would not shrink from danger; he thought it his duty to go, and in haste preparations were made. Poor Mrs. Grace could not feel reconciled to it. She tried to be cheerful, but the light was dim in her een. "Before Captain Hamilton left, General Harwood wanted to   270           OLIE. have both of their portraits painted. They were taken by an excellent artist, and hung, side by side, in the west room. Captain Hamilton said his should be taken in uniform, that his wife might think of him as fighting for his country. "Months went by, and there came many letters, and finally news that the battle was almost over, and that the officers would soon return. A letter came to Mrs. Hamilton from her husband saying that in a few days he hoped to be on his way home. The letter had been delayed on the way, and she thought he might now be quite near. There were happy hearts here then, Miss Clara; and little George said he liked to have father go away, because it made them all so glad to think of his coming back again. One day he came in with some fresh flowers. "I hope they will keep till father comes,' said Mrs. Ham- ilton. ' I guess they will, mother,' said George; 'you know 'tis a week since we got the letter. Perhaps he will come to- day. I look into every carriage that comes; I want to see him first,' and George ran out again. "Mrs. Hamilton arranged the flowers just as she liked them, and then seated herself by the window; she took up the paper which George had wrapped around the flowers, which were wet with the dew. Something caught her eye, 'news from the battle-field.' Her pulse beat quickly, as she eagerly read: ' The battle is ours; the officers and soldiers are on their way home. The enemy had many killed and wounded, yet the American ranks were almost unbroken. Two of the officers had shown unparalleled bravery and devotion to their country; and to them may be ascribed most of the honors   UNCLE JOHNrS WEST ROOM.         271 of the victory; they won for themselves deathless laurels; and dear to the heart of every patriot should be the names of General Harwood and Captain Hamilton. The former had been severely wounded, but hopes were entertained of his re- covery; the latter had fallen pierced with many wounds.' The paper dropped from poor Grace's hands; she fell senseless on the floor. It came like a thunder-clap. Some time after I went in with some fresh water, and then she was lying per- fectly still, and the paper by her side. "Your uncle and the servants were called, and we laid her on the sofa. After some time, she showed signs of life, and revived, but she did not smile or weep. Her heart seemed broken. She lived a few months. George kept by her con- stantly. She would sit for hours looking at the Captain's picture, with her sad solemn eyes. "It was a sad time in Oakwood when she died; every body loved her; and the auld kirkyard was full of real mourners when they laid her in the grave. "George grieved very much for a time, but young een don't keep tears long; and General Harwood sent for An- nette to come home from school, and that cheered him up. It was a beautiful sight, those two young things going about so happy together. General Harwood would n't go into the west room till Annette came; and she used to play the same tunes Mrs. Grace did, and she would sing the same sweet songs. It seemed to do the old man good to listen to her. In two years, George went away to school; and then Annette and her Uncle John were always together. She would read to him for hours; that library in the west room was hers; and they would walk out together every pleasant day."   272           OLIE. Mr. Leland came in while Nelly was talking, and he fin- ished the recital. "The summer after George went away, was a terrible sum- mer, ' the pestilence walked in darkness and wasted at noon- day.' The angel of death spread his broad wings over the land, and hovered over the quiet retreat of Oakwood; there was weeping and lamentation in many a cottage home. Mothers fondly pressed their children to their bosom at night, dreading lest the morrow should find them bereft. Death's angel crossed the threshold of the Hall, and there a loved and loving one he sought, and laid upon her heart an icy hand. 'The angels are coming,' said she, just before she died. "The old man's head bowed in agony, but not in resigna- tion. The bird hung, uncared for, in its little cage, the flow- ers in the window, drooped for want of water, young hands, which but yesterday were laid caressingly on the old man's brow, were folded over a heart whose pulsation beat joyously only a few hours before, with the notes of the bird. "She was gone; yes, Annette was really gone. There she lay in her coffin, a little fair flower. Brightly the warm sun shone in, the birds carolled on, the flowers fair young hands had gathered, lay withered on the coffin-lid. One tiny, white bud, which opened the morning the freed spirit went to its home above, lay in the folded hands. "Hour after hour the old man lingered by his dead. Oft he exclaimed in bitterness of spirit, ' Oh, God, why hast thou robbed me  of my all! henceforth I go through the world alone. Annette! oh, Annette 'would God I had died for thee.' Why must these old locks grow white with the frosts   w..w Jv b lJH'S WEST ROOM.      273 of useless winters, and thy young brow be covered with the cold earth V' He would be alone with his dead; they must not disturb him; what had 'he to do with sleep! They bore her away and laid her by her mother's side; earth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust. "Every thing Annette had touched, every thing her hand had made, was laid carefully away, or left just where she placed it. The west room was locked up; the old man would enter it no more." 12* \.   CHAPTER XXIX. AN  ARRIVAL   AT ELMVILLE. 4"As a twig trembles which a bird Lights on to sing, then leaves unbent, So is my memory thrilled and stirred;- I only know she came and went."  ILowELS ELMVILLE was a pleasant little village, and, like most other small places, every little incident was universally known and commented upon. Any professional character would soon gain a notoriety among its kind hearts and quiet homes, which those dwelling in the heart of a great city seldom or never attain. There are those, in every place, who have a great passion for gossip, and who enthusiastically and indefatigably seek for the latest advices of all events classed under the term news. Among such curiosity-loving individuals was Mrs. William Giles, the first person who greeted Anna on her arrival at Elmville. The most interesting incident in her daily life was the ar- rival of the Elmville stage. "She would hurry," as she said, "to get all the chores done up," that she might watch its coming, see the groups gather around it, as it passed her house; perhaps be the first to see   AN ARRIVAL AT EL)UVILLE.        275 the strange faces inside, guess their names, and report their arrival to the first neighbor that happened to come in. Mrs. Giles had a daughter who was known all over the vil- lage by the expressive cognomen of Susy.  Susy had not her mother's indefatigable curiosity; yet she was bright and quick, and ever ready to comply with the least wish of her mother. One very warm afternoon Mrs. Giles sat by the window longer than usual, wondering why the stage did n't come; when, suddenly the crowded vehicle came in sight. "La, me!" said she, as she looked out of the window, "if that is n't the handsomest young man on the front seat I ever set my eyes on; run quick, Susy, and look out of the cham- ber window and see where he stops." Susy returned in a few minutes from her post of observa- tion; saying, " that the stage had stopped at Judson's and the handsome gentleman had gone in with a very large trunk, with brass things all over the outside of it." "He looks like a real gentleman," said Mrs. Giles; " per- haps it 's our new minister-we 'll ask father when he comes home." Mr. Giles very seldom had any news to relate; he never stopped to listen when groups at the corner were busy circu- lating it, not caring whether his neighbor had bought a white, black, or gray horse-whether he would pull down his old house and build a new one, or repair the old one. His wife said every thing went into one ear and out of the other; notwithstanding this he was a kind neighbor, and good husband; and well informed on most important subjects. Mr. Giles thought it " oncounterble" that after the whole   village had found out, talked over, and forgotten an event, William would just hear of it; and would never mention it until by some of her allusions she would find out that he had known it long ago. "Why, William!" she would say. "Why don't you tell me when you get any news? There's Mrs. Smith knows all the news right off, her husband always tells her." "Tell you! there's no need on 't. You know what's going on without my telling you. You 'll gather up more news in one day than I can find out in a month; besides, I should be deaf and dumb in less than no time if I should attempt to hunt up and tell you all you want to know about what 's going on." The night after the arrival of the stranger, before Mr. Giles had got his hat off, she began- "William, do you know who that young man was that came in the stage to-day T" "What young man?" "Why, the stranger that stopped at Judson's?" "I'm sure I don't know; there were half a dozen gentle- men in the stage; I have n't as much curiosity as you wim- men have, but I heard somebody say who took the trouble to look at the card on his trunk, that it was a young man from the city." "What city?" said Susan. "I don't know, child. I did n't ask any body:' When Mrs. Giles, finding out there was really no more to learn about the stranger now, at any rate, like a good wife as she was, she piled up the beans on her husband's plate, and helped him to another slice of pork.   "Them beans are very nice, wife," said Mr. Giles. "Yes, I think they are, I had some trouble to get them in time for dinner, but Susy went to Mr. Jones's with a basket, and came back with a fine lot of them, and I guess they 're pretty well done after all; I 've been in a stew all the morning for fear they would n't be baked enough." "This is pretty good pork too, Hannah." "Yes, it is some of Mrs. James's. I sent her some of my beef, killing time, so she's sent me some of her pork." "Well, one good turn deserves another; many 's the time the doctor had my horse to go miles and miles, when his horse was lame. How is the doctor, Hannah?" "I don't think the poor man can stand it long; he had a dreadful poor spell this morning." "-It will go hard with him," said Mr. Giles; "he's enjoyed poor health this good while. I  knew that cough would be the death of him. How does Mrs. James take it?" "Oh! she takes it very hard, poor thing; she's almost worn out with her care all day, and watching all night. Then the doctor is very uneasy like, and wants a deal of waiting on. He's been kinder discouraged like ever since he was taken down, as if he knew he warnter goin' to live; these doctors don'tsmake very good sick people; and he can't see his doc- tor very often, and that makes it bad." "What doctor does he have?" "  Old Doctor Ford. Comes 'way over the mountains; and he has a good many other patients. If he only could have come earlier, and watched him all along, I believe he might have saved his life. It is a great pity we have n't another doctor here, '"Vm,   278          OLIS. "Doctor James ought to have had some other doctor who could help him. But he thought he could get along; how- ever, I don't believe it would have made any difference in the long run, we must die when our time comes, and nothing can prevent it. "There 's George Green went to see his uncle just a few days, and when the boat landed, he made a misstep and fell into the water and was drowned. I'm thinking we're just as safe in one place as in another. There's our John went all around the world, and through the war, too, and got back safe, yet he died in our arms; only was sick two days, and we thought there was n't much ailed him either. No, we never die till our time comes, and then all the doctors in the land can't help us. "Poor Mrs. James takes on dreadfully because she didn't try to keep the doctor from going that long journey when he was ailing; so she says if he'd only stayed to home and rested he would n't have been sick, but he has n't been well since he caught that cold. I wish, William, you'd just step in there and see if you can't do something for the poor soul; maybe if the doctor lasts till night you can sit up with him." After Mr. Giles had gone, "Mother," said Susy, "do you know that old Mrs. Lane is dead i" Why, no, child; how did you hear of it ."' "Why, when I went to Sally Martin's this morning, I step- ped in to Mrs. Brown's, and she told me she had just got home from Mrs. Lane's, she had been there all night." "What was the matter with her?" said Mrs. Giles. "She died very suddenly in a fit, yesterday afternoon'." "Why, it don't seem possible; I saw her going by yester-   AN A-RRIVAL AT ELMVILLE.        279 day morning with Willie; how much store she set by that child!' She was a good woman, too-she was always at meetin'. Mr. Giles said that last Sabbath-you know how it stormed-she was there all bundled up, all the rest of the ladies were afraid to go." "You know, mother," said Susy, "Mr. and Mrs. Lane don't belong to the church; so old Mrs. Lane always said grace at the table, and they liked to have her. You know Willie 's only three years old. Mr. Lane always used to tell him, if he began to eat before grandma said grace, IWillie, lay down your knife and fork, and fold your hands;' so, after awhile, Willie would always fold his hands, and wait. "This morning they sat down to the table as usual--poor Willie's grandma was laid out in the parlor, on a board; Willie looked at grandma's place at the table, and then at the parlor door; and when his father commenced to eat, Willie looked again at his grandma's place, and said, "Papa, lay down your knife and fork-papa, lay down your knife and fork, and fold your hands.' "Mr. Lane stopped a moment, the tears came to his eyes, and he said, VVillie, grandma is dead, she has gone to heaven, she can't say grace any more.' "' Papa, I say gace,' said Willie. Papa folded his hands; Willie put up his little hands, closed his eyes, and said, ' Gace the Lord my soul to keep, Amen.' Mrs. Brown said it made her cry to see him. And after breakfast, he said to his father, 'Papa, Willie can't be happy any more--Willie ain't got any gamma.'" "Poor child, he 'll miss his grandma, I guess. Now, Susy, you may finish doing up the dishes, and I 'll run around and   280           OLIE. see Mrs. Smith; perhaps she'll know something about the stranger, then I want to see how her child is getting on." The sun-bonnet (and old brown shawl were quickly put on, and the wearer soon in Mrs. Smith's kitchen. After talking some time about Mrs. Lane, Mrs. Giles said to Mrs. Smith  "( Do you know any thing about the stranger that stopped at Judson's? I kinder thought it might be the young minis- ter, they tell me he's coming to preach for us." "I guess it's the young man Doctor James was talking about before he was sick," said Mrs. Smith; " a young doctor who had a fine education, and a good deal of experience in the hospitals in the city too, they say. He thought he'd like to live awhile in the country; and the talk is, that the old doctor meant to take him into partnership if he would come here. He said he 'd come and see about it anyhow, and he 's come, they say." "Why, do tell!" said M5rs. Giles; "here William and I were talking this very morning about having a young doctor here, and what a pity Dr. James had n't got somebody before to help him." "I'm sorry he did n't come before," said Mrs. Smith, " they say he is a skillful man, and he may think of something that will cure the doctor yet, or that will do him some good." "Where will he board if he stays?" said Mrs. Giles. "I don't know yet, he 'll board at Judson's for a while, and then Doctor James said something about his boarding here; perhaps he will after our hurry is over." "Well, he 's a light nice-looking man," said Mrs. Giles, I hope we 'll all like him, and that he 'll stay with us awhile.   AN ARRIVAL AT ELMVILLE.         281 Poor Mrs. James, I 'm sorry for her, it will be so hard for her to be left with all those little children, and they say the house is mortgaged too; the doctor was always kinder loose about business matters." "A right good doctor he was, though, I never want a better." "'Nor I;" said Mrs. Smith, "I have had him ever since I came here, and that's better than thirty years." "Yes, that he is;" said Mrs. Giles, but I must run home, Susy 'll think I 've been gone a good while. Do run in and see us, Mrs. Smith, and be neighborly." ("Yes, I mean to come in more than I have ; but I have had so much to do, I never could find a good stopping-place." "Well," said Mrs. Giles, as she went out, "I don't believe in people slaving themselves to death; you must do as I do, when I can't get time, I make it, and it don't make any difference when the week's through with." "You have n't as many little folks as I have, to keep in trim," said Mrs. Smith. 4"I know it ;" said Mrs. Giles; " but then a body can always find enough to do if they 've a mind to try." At tea-time, for a wonder, Mr. Giles had considerable to say. He felt unusually good-natured, and just in the mood to tell all he had heard. "Well, wife," said he, "the gentleman's name is Lee- hentz, he is a young doctor, he has concluded to stay awhile in Elmville, and he thinks he may possibly be able to help Doctor James; he says his case is not a hope!ess one, He came here now from New York, though I don't know yet where his home has been. Some of his relatives are very   282           OLIEI rich; he has had a first-rate education, and has practiced a good deal in hospitals. He has the best room at Judson's, where he will stay until he boards somewhere else. His Christian name I don't know, only it begins with R., for there is R. on his trunk; and he measures six feet in his boots, he wears a black suit throughout, and a black cravat, and has a weed on his hat-his eyes are about as dark as yours, Han- nah, and his hair curls a little; he smiles when he speaks, and is, I should think, a right pleasant man; I hope the girls here won't spoil him: there wife, have n't I told you some news this time 2 Now you ought to give me a good long chalk mark on your door, I think. I've told you all I knew, or all I could find out." 'Pon my word, you've done very well this time, Wil- liam," said Mrs. Giles, as she poured him out another cup of tea. "I 'm glad we 've got a doctor right on the spot; it will be a great relief anyhow, to Mrs. James; yes, I 'll put down a long chalk mark for you, from the ceiling down to the floor. I wish I could put down such a one every night." "And noon, too," said Mr. Giles, laughing. "I took a sight of trouble to repeat it over on my way home so I should n't forget it."          ! "Well, I 've heard something, too," said Susy, laughing. "What is it?" said Mr. Giles. "Oh, it is n't any thing worth telling, only it is about the new doctor. I went in to-see Emily Judson a little while, and he came in and asked Mrs. Judson if any body she knew of that could do up linen, he had been traveling so much he wanted some done up, and she directed him- to Aunt Sally, and a little while after I saw him go around to Aunt Sally's."   AN ARRIVAL AT ELMVILLE.         283 "' Aunt, Sally don't look very well," said Mrs. Giles. "No, she is n't well," said Susy, " she stands up by the tub and washes, but Mary Martin does most of her errands for her, and much of the ironing, I guess." "Poor Mary has a hard time of it," said Mr. Giles; " she does more work than any body knows." "Wife, did you know that brother Daniel had hurt his hand?" said Mr. Giles. "No, I did n't." "He has hurt it pretty bad, I think, and Laura went into the doctor's office this afternoon, I suppose they wanted him to do something for it; I guess I 'll run round there and see." Mr. Giles had hurt his hand, and the new doctor had bandaged it very carefully; and it so happened that Miss Har- wood had been most worn out with the toothache for days, and Mrs. Giles said, "seeing the doctor was in the house, she might as well have it out," and so she had screwed up courage and had it extracted. Just as the doctor had finished the operation, which he per- formed very skillfully, he happened to cast his eye on the table, where was a very prettily-executed painting; and un- derneath it written in small, but legible letters, Mary Lee. "Mary Lee, Mary Lee," thought he, " where can she be? Who is she 2" A few minutes after he reached his boarding-place, George Judson came up stairs to his room to tell him that Aunt Sally had sent for his clothes. "Tell the boy to come up here," said the doctor. He hastily gathered up the budget of linen, expecting as   284           OLIE. he opened his door to find some little ragged urchin waiting, but in his steadt was a delicate and fairy-like looking girl, with dark, sad-looking eyes, and pale face. "These country laundresses have very unusual messengers to carry their bundles," thought he. "I have seen something like that face before; where have I seen it? Was it in some dream 2 The expression of those eyes is familiar. She has a perfectly symmetrical figure,'though dressed in that plain garb; her movements were graceful too, as she glided away with the bundle, with a blush on her cheeks, as if she was not accustomed to such an occupation; but there goes the tea- bell." Poor Mary Lee dreaded going for the doctor's bundle-; it seemed to her she would rather wash all the clothes three times over, than go after them: it was one of the greatest trials that could be imposed upon her sensitive nature. But it "( was over with," as Aunt Sally said, and she " had lived through it. There was no use in making such a fuss about nothing." It was the first time she had ever been at Judson's, and then, too, she was always afraid of dogs, and Mr. Judson kept a very large one, which barked at every body. Mary was sure it would fly at her, for she was afraid of all dogs, and she be- lieved they knew it too, for they always honored her with a special salute; and many a time had she walked way round the other street, to avoid passing by Mr. Judson's dog. It was very foolish, but she could n't help it. Fortunately for her this time, Bruno made no special ad- vances to her, only wagged his tail and growled a little, then lay quietly down. Mary could n't help thinking of the lion   AN ARRIIVAL AT ELMVILLE.         285 in the "' Pilgrim's Progress," a picture of which Uncle Frank had shown her long ago. Days passed, and the new doctor was fast getting into practice. Old Mr. Giles's hand did n't get well immediately, and he had with that trouble a slow fever. One day as Dr. Leehentz had arisen to go, Ellen passed through the room  hastily, with her bonnet on.  "Ellen," said Mrs. Giles, calling her back a moment, "you may stop and tell Mary Lee to call here to-night. I want to see her." i"Who can she be?" thought the doctor. As he went on his way home, he met the pretty bundle- carrier, with -a small package under her arm, looking tired and sad. "Ah!" thought he, " she looks too delicate for her occu- pation., I 've surely seen that face before." Yes, the doctor had seen that face before, only it looked then bright and happy. In the country, faces soon grow familiar, one meets them so often, when in the city, they might be passed unnoticed. In the country, all strangers are objects of interest, and real sympathy is felt for every sufferer, and for every bereaved heart; no pale face can be met without the mental exclama- tion, "Who 's that?" The minutiae of the toilet, the words and deeds of any prom- inent member of society, minister, doctor, lawyer, or teacher, are all objects of interest. Their comings in and their goings out are noticed; the world of humanity is small and circum- scribed; closely all scan each other; they rejoice at every bridal, they mourn at every burial, and the breaking of the   286           OL I . links in one chain is felt by all the little circles of sympathy and affection. There are warm, kind hearts in the country. God bless them! so thought soon Dr. Leehentz; but then there was one face that looked like some old familiar face; one name made him think. Whose was it? Before the doctor reached home, he met Anna Harwood on her way from the post-office; she had a letter from sister Clara-a long, long letter-it was quite full of news; her con- versations with poor Mary Lee, and her letters from Clara and Ella, gave her much real pleasure. Mary had no dear friends of her own, and she began to take interest in Anna's friends, for months there was little in her own life to record.   CHAPTER XXX. COUSIN  GEORGE. "It was the quietest of nooks;-- How well I can recall its looks! One side just held 'her' hoard of books, A dear deposit; -One window, vailed by curtains fair, Gave entrance to the summer air; Beside it stood 'her' desk and chair: Methinks I see it." THE west room was dusted and swept, it had not been used for a long time, the drapery was gracefully festooned by the windows; vases of fresh flowers gave to this silent room a look of life and beauty. On the marble mantles there were beautiful statuettes, vases of elegant design had been placed in the niches in the wall. There was a tasteful mingling of light and shade in the arrangement of the furniture. Paintings,'" by the grand old masters," decorated the walls; on the table were costly bound books and curious specimens of rarest workmanship; some had been brought from distant sunny climes to gratify young hearts and delight young eyes; others to please the matured taste of older minds: there was much on which a child's eye would fondly rest, and much to attract the admira- tion of the scholar, whose taste years had ripened. A charming place was that old west room; young feet had often crossed its threshold, and beauty found there its dwelling-place. In   288            OLIE. one corner was a portrait of a beautiful young girl, in the bril- liant bloom of early youth, beneath it was a piano open, and on it some music, as if young hands had just turned the leaves, near it was a low stool, on which lay some unfinished em- broidery; the roses were half formed, the green leaves just commenced; an unfinished letter lay on the little writing-desk beside the window, and under it a pair of tiny wrought slip- pers, as if some fairy-like foot had hastily left them there, and over it hung a bird-cage, the door was open, as if its fairy occupant had fled. Clara could not account for the sensation of awe she felt as she moved any article of furniture; it seemed to her she pre- ferred leaving every thing just as it was, and so she did; the windows were only opened to let in the cool morning air; fresh flowers gave a look of life and hope to the silent room, the vail of dust was removed from the beautiful faces hanging on the walls, and every arrangement was made for the comfort of the old occupant. "I don't wonder cousin George liked this room," thought Clara; " 't is strange I have never seen it before ; what a beau- tiful portrait this is; it is taken in the old style; the dress looks antiquated, the frame, too, is injured by time; but the features are very fine, that beautifully arched brow looks like Uncle John's, and there is the same peculiar expression about the mouth; the hands are very small and delicate, and the face pale, as if she were ill; it must have been taken some time before that little fairy-like face over the piano; that is a noble- looking gentleman hanging by her side, dressed in officer's uniform. He has a commanding look, how bright his eyes, and the lips are compressed, as if in strong determination.   v v U o-*X 1  u i U t .     289 He looks much larger than the lady by his side.    One would think he would be proud to protect such a beautiful creature; she must be his wife. What a contrast in their appearance." There was a small library in the corner near the south window, some of the books were laid on the shelves carelessly, as if frequently used. The view from the window was highly picturesque. Clara looked once more, to be sure that all was right, and then went to superintend her other household matters. Cousin George came rather sooner than they expected, and soon was perfectly at home again. Uncle John said he was completely made over; yet there was something left of the wild boy who used to climb the hills, and roam  through the woods, chasing birds and butterflies. There was the same happy, gleesome spirit; the same clear, ringing laugh, though it fell less often on the ear; the chetsnut locks would still curl a little, in spite of all effort to keep them straight; and quite often the same mischievous glance twink- led from  out the heavy lashes. There was a perfect politeness in his manner, yet he conformed exactly to no system of rules. He had all the polish which society and education could give; art had only refined, but never changed nature; and he could say and do with ease what in others might seem out of place and abrupt. He always spoke right out; he never seemed to try to please any body, yet every body liked him. Restraint he had known very little of, and had he been inclined to any excess of evil, he might have been a   heartless and ruined man; but Providence had been very kind, and nature very lavish of her gifts. -13   290           OLIE. What might offend you in others would only please you in him, or you would take it as a matter of course. Some of his off-hand speeches would occasionally cause some very grave persons to shrug their shoulders and say, "Well, I don't know what to make of him, but I can't help but like him after all." He was a great favorite in college, and managed to gain the esteem of all the faculty, and came off with the highest honors. The coming of such a guest to Uncle John's added not a little to the life of the house. He played with the old gentle- man his favorite game of chess; ransacked the country for the most beautiful wild-flowers for Clara, and the finest fish for Uncle John; he brought Nelly, the housekeeper, a good warm shawl, which did her old heart much good. She had carried him in her arms many times when he was a boy; many nights she watched him when he was very sick, and she said, she " never shut her eyes to sleep." It did her old eyes good to see him again, and it was cer- tainly pleasant to know that he had not forgotten her. George would tell stories by the hour to Uncle John-anec- dotes of very amusing or exciting foreign adventures; and sometimes, when Clara was sewing, he would read to her. He had a clear, pleasant voice. Sometimes he would read to her a simple poem, or an old marvelous legend; his theme was well chosen, and adapted to the mood of the moment. At night the keys of the old piano would thrill at his touch -he had a passion for music; often, if sober or gay, his spir- ited touches would waken some old melody. Some thought that he never gave any subject serious   COUSIN GEORGE.           291 thought-the smile was ever so ready on his lip; but they were mistaken. Those whose lips never quiver, and eyes always look so laughter-loving, have sometimes the most sober thoughts- moments of calm reflection, when old times, old scenes, it may be a mother's memory, come vividly upon the heart. George loved to talk with Clara as she was quietly bending over her work. She understood him thoroughly, and always gave him credit for sincerity. If he made any remark in uni- son with her feelings, he always knew it, though she never told him. If she disapproved of any thing, he could always tell by the expression of her countenance. Uncle John said Clara always talked most when she was very still. George had a light jest for other ears, but he only spoke in earnest to her. It was very pleasant to Clara to have somebody to wind her silk for her, bring her fresh flowers, talk to her when lonely, sing with her when it was too dark to sew. She prized the companionship of a cultivated mind, and the sympathy of a warm, generous heart; neither were less pleasant, because, in her position at Uncle John's, she had been, in a measure, deprived of both.   The days passed swiftly. In her calm, quiet spirit, George felt there was rest-a con- science at peace, a heart at ease; and, wild, reckless, and im- pulsive as he was, when with her, his own nature seemed changed. Of late his had been a "stirring life," and now "He breathed that atmosphere of peace Around her path that grew; That evil from her steps repelled, The good unto her drew."   292            OL Et. Who can explain the magic of influence, that moral mag- netism which thrills " life's dark electric chain ;" it is so power- ful for evil, so omnipotent to call forth and increase the good. There are some beings who must have vast influence wherever they go; their words will have power, their example will be imitated; and most fearful is their responsibility. But when many are grouped together in the same household, the re- sponsibility is shared and lessened. There will be a gentle spirit to allay the impression made by some impetuous, fiery one; a cool, calculating temperament to adjust those little irregularities into which a whole household may sometimes be led by the promptings of one impulsive being. How nicely God has blended the shades of character, that human life may pass with its bright mornings, and dark nights, its joys, and its sorrows, and when the darkness falls from these earth-dimmed eyes, we may see as we look back upon it, that we were all unlike, that patience and forbear- ance may be learned, and the calm  rest of Heaven, when they see eye to eye, be more delightful. But the smaller the group, the greater the influence which one voice, and one life has. The trio at Uncle John's were all different, yet one link of harmony joined them. George began to think Clara was a very dear cousin, she contributed so much to his comfort, and then too she: under- stood him perfectly, and that to him was a great charm.- The parlor was very lonesome without her, and books seemed dull unless he could read them to her. The hours after din- ner seemed very short if she was only in the drawing-room. He would remember too at night so many things she ,   uoUSINJ GEORGE.         293 said, nothing very wonderful to e be sure, only she had such a peculiar way of saying them; he would like to know if she ever thought of him when she was alone. One afternoon they took a long walk; they went through the wood down by the stream, and now they were, as Clara said, in a second edition of woods. "Come, cousin," said she, " you 've been a long time find- ing the way home; you're only leading me farther into the woods. I am afraid you are not a very safe pioneer. I fear I shall have to find the way out, or our walk will prove a long journey; we must turn here, and pass through that opening yonder, and then go down by the old oak. I 've been so often through these woods, I know of a good many ways out. It is getting late, and Uncle John will be troubled about the runaways, and the sky looks rather dark too." "You look very tired, Clara," said George, ' rest a few mo- ments under this old tree\; here is a smooth stone you can have for a seat, and this green grass is a nice soft carpet for your feet." As Clara sat down on the low seat, George seated himself on the grass by her side, and began making a wreath of some beautiful leaves he had gathered. "Clara," said he, "we have taken many walks together through these woods, and to-night I was not thinking about getting home, other thoughts filled my mind; and you must pardon me for taking you so far out of the way. I 'm afraid I have wearied you; you really look very tired." "Oh, I shall soon be rested," said Clara, "never mind about that, but of what were you thinking 2" "I was thinking of a long journey T must take."   294           OLIE. "4 A long journey! are you going to leave us 2" "No, not yet; but I must take this journey, and I don't think I can find my way alone. I had a mother once who loved me, Clara; had she lived she would have accompanied me, but she is gone. -There are reasons why I can not avoid going, and it will be a dangerous journey; sometimes there will be steep hills to climb, and often narrow defiles to pass; and travelers who have gone the same way before me, say that it is a very dangerous journey, and many when out on the ocean, are dashed against the breakers; some go a little way, and get discouraged." "But why don't you get some one to go for you, cousin 2?" "Because from a child I have looked forward to it, and if I pass through it safely I may not regret it; and then there's no avoiding it. I am completely under the control of another, and I don't yet know how long the journey will be. Some persons have been fortunate enough in having a guide with them, who made the time pass pleasantly, and the dangers seemed really less." "Why don't you have a guide?" "I should like one, but I fear I can not obtain the only one who would suit my purpose-just such a guide as I want. I don't want any one at all like me, for we 'd only be getting into danger together. I had commenced the journey when I came here: I paused to rest." "Have you ever tried to obtain the guide?" "No, I have not. I suppose I am foolish in not trying, but I am so proud, I should dread a refusal. Now, Clara, if you were in my place, would you try?" "Yes, if I thought there was any hope in succeeding; but   do tell me who this mysterious guide is. Have you made any rash vow to make a pilgrimage, and do you want some white-robed priest to accompany you a Are you going to do penance for some early folly 2" "Well, cousin, I don't know as I can answer so many questions at once, but you are well acquainted with, and have a great influence over the guide." "I have any influence! Why, cousin, what do you mean? Is it Uncle John? or our steward? or good Mr. Holbrook? or Mr. Wilder? or is it our minister Mr. Leland? I believe he has traveled a great deal. Do tell me who this myste- rious being is over whom I have such strange influence?" said Clara. "I am  sure you may have all my influence in your favor" - "Clara, that journey is life--some of it I have passed alone; there are difficult steeps to climb, long storms to be weathered, rough gales to meet, and pleasant vales wherein to rest, and you know how impetuous I am, and I dread the breakers and the rocks. "The past few days I have lingered in one of its sunny spots, a green and silent spot among its hills.' I have basked in the sunshine of pleasant smiles, and listened to the music of a kindly voice, the voice of the only being I want for my guide. I would never weary of walking by her side; life's bitter cup would be sweet, if shared with her. To-day I have led her far out of the way; but if she would be my guide through that long journey, I would safely guard her, while her gentle spirit should guide me into the path of hap- piness. "I would lead her to a happy home, whose light she   296           OLIE. should ever be. Clara, dear Clara, will you go with me through life. See how the evening shadows are gathering. Will you gild the shadows of a coming future with your presence? I know I am not worthy to be yours, but you can make me better; or will you leave me to go alone that long, long journey. You have taught me to love goodness for its own sake, and to despise the frivolities of a heartless world. If there is room to hope, oh! let me hope--" There was a rustling among the leaves, and Uncle John's voice was heard. "Ah, you run-aways! I have found you at last. Clara, I think that cousin of yours has taken you rather a long walk this time; there is a heavy shower coming, the carriage is round in the road, and if you hurry, perhaps you can reach it before it overtakes us." Uncle John wondered what made the young folks so still, and when he did get them to speak, their answers did not at all satisfy him. "Clara, you have walked too far, I'm afraid.; your cheeks are so flushed, and George, you look pale, too." Clara went to her room very early, and all the next day she was very busy-so busy that George hardly saw her, only in Uncle John's presence. George thought her very reserved, and still could not obtain one stray glance. So passed another day, to George almost in- tolerable. He felt sometimes vexed at Uncle John, for coming after them that night, just when he did. He showed by every delicate attention in his power, by his sad and troubled expression, his deep interest in her, he was restless and un- happy without her.   COUSIN GEORGE.           297 The week was ended, it was " closed like the day," there was ' No voice in the chamber, No sound in the hall, Sleep and oblivion Reigned over all." All save one restless, feverish one. There was a chapter in his history unfinished. Who would write finis? Would it be pleasantly ended and bound up in the volume of his life, bound up in his heart, with the clasps of affection strong and enduring? or was it to be' torn up and thrown away to be borne down the dark stream of forgetfulness, a torn, a withered leaf, right from his heart. If this chapter could only be happily ended, how bright would be the unfolding pages of the future ; with its " hoarded household words," and golden memories--how beautiful the picture of fireside happiness, between the pages of the book of life. The stars were shining bright in the calm, clear evening sky-in the sky of his heart, he could see only one star,the star of love-was it to become a fixed star in the horizon of his hopes, or was it to wander off to brighten another's sky, and leave him shrouded in night? There are many such nights in the voyage of life, when the soul is tossed on the billows of unrest, and haunted by the phantom of suspense. They are long doubting nights-and, with the morning light, trembling hope may ask of the coming future: "Watch- man, what .of the night?" and only one voice can answer, "The morning dawneth ;" sometimes " weeping endureth for the night, and joy cometh in the morning." 138   298            OLIE,. There are conflicts, mighty conflicts, going on in the heart- world; and rare is that spirit on whose battle-ground there have not been victories gained, and conquests won. In the pilgrimage of hearts, this game of life, there are fear- ful losings, and joyful winnings--happy those who stake not their all on one desperate throw, and lose. The morning sun stole in upon the restless dreamer; he knew nothing, by experience, of that sun whose light first gilded Bethlehem's hills; his heart knew not the healing of its celestial beams; he only thought of that spiritual sunshine shed around him, by one smile, and one gentle presence. Many might call him visionary; but there are just such, hearts all over the wide world, watching the dawn of " one bright particular star." Too often that star in the Spirit's sky only proves a fitful meteor, which " leads to bewilder, and dazzles to blind." '-ic   CHAPTER XXXI. SABA BATH   AT UNCLE    JOHN   S. "And onward, onward, onward still, successive Sabbaths come, As guides to lead us on the road to our eternal home, Or like the vision'd ladder once to slumbering Jacob given, From Heaven descending to the earth, led back from earth to Heaven." MRS. GRAY. FEW knew the thoughts of the little company in Uncle John's pew that lovely Sabbath morning. How calm the repose on the countenance of each of the, trio to the eye of the careless observer, while beneath the out- ward semblance there were tempests of feeling and volcanoes of passions. "The human soul, what mortal eye Hath seen its strings laid bare I A beauty and a mystery Is all that resteth there."' It is well that thought can be looked up, and feelings hid- den-or the heart next our own might be startled by their intensity. Even the holy stillness of the Sabbath hours will be dis- turbed by those shadows which come over the spirit; memo- ries of the past, duties of the present, fears of the future; until the presence and worship of the Invisible One is for   300           O L I E. gotten; yet the head is reverently bowed, and the eyes give earnest attention, while the heart is a sad wanderer, seelking rest and finding none. The sermon was unusually impressive, perhaps thoughts, occasioned by Uncle John's conversation, had led to the theme, or the Spirit had guided to the selection--that its solemn truth might touch one unbelieving heart. Clara was absorbed in the worship, her voice joined in the song, her heart bowed in prayer. Long was the good man's sermon; he took for his theme, "' all Scripture is given by inspiration of God." Long and eloquently he brought forward proof after proof of its infallibility. His eye kindling with the sub- limity of his theme; he exclaimed at the close: "When yonder sun shall have turned into everlasting darkness, and the pale moon shall wax and wane no more; these radiant truths written in the book of life will be told 'with immortal tongues, by multitudes, which no man can number, in strains of glory rising higher and higher, and growing sweeter and sweeter to endless ages.'"All who loved their Bible, loved then more than ever, as they joined in ascriptions of praise to the Giver of every good and perfect gift for this message of peace on earth, and good-will to man. Uncle John was an attentive listener, and that afternoon, at home, expressed his interest in the sermon, and asked George if he was not interested in its solemn truth. George replied, "that the sermon was well-delivered, and well-written; but as he did not approve of the sentiment, he could not as well express his opinion." "To what part of the sermon did you object, George?" said Uncle John.   SA-BBATH  AT UNCLE JOHNIS.       301 "I do not believe the Bible inspired; I think it may teach a good system of morals, but no more infallible than other books. Besides it is an old-fashioned book, full of inconsisten- cies, paradoxes, and humbugs; I think in the very first chapter of Genesis there is a verse declaring Pantheism plainly. We have no proof that Moses wrote the books ascribed to him; I would no sooner take it for my guide than the Vestiges of Creation. I allow no man to think for me, they may call me a heretic; but I want a faith agreeing with common sense and common reason, and not built upon a set of stories, called miracles, directly opposed to the laws of nature. My views are the result of study, and I have seen recently some wonderful communications with the spirit world which confirm my belief. "I respect all who differ from me; but I can not sympa- thize with their sentiments." Uncle, John suddenly left the room, and Clara was alone with George. "Cousin George," said she, "I can never trust myself in the life-journey, with one who doubts the infallibility of the only safe chart, that precious book, from which I have gained the hope of salvation," and, bursting into tears, she withdrew. George could hardly appreciate her motives, and was al- most willing to believe that she had assigned this motive to hide the indifference she might really feel for him. The next morning, Uncle John told George he had a com- mission for him to execute in a neighboring village, which would require two or three days absence. "Uncle, I can not return again," said George.   oVu           OLIE. "Oh, yes, come back and stay with us always; Clara and I will be very lonely without you." "Clara has given me no hope that it will be for her happi- ness or mine, uncle; and I can stay here no longer. My re- marks last night have either changed her feelings, or led her to express decidedly her unwillingness to receive me as I had long hoped." George walked the room in intense excitement. "No, uncle, I feel as if I never could come here any more- every thing now seems sad, only recalling those associations to which I can not cling." George left that night without bidding Clara good-by, but he wrote her a brief adieu, expressing his intention to go im- mediately to Europe. Uncle John regretted his departure, yet he knew Clara's conscientious principles, and he judiciously never alluded to his going or its cause. Clara had had a struggle, and she gained a victory; she dared not link her destiny to one who could never join with her in real fervent prayer; who could never sympathize with her on the most important of subjects. Cheerfully she performed her daily duties, though the house seemed very lonely, and George's sudden departure cast a shade of sadness over every thing. The trial through which Clara had passed, subdued and elevated her character. Poor old Nancy, the blind woman, living in the little cottage, was very ill, and Clara spent much time with her. She visited her daily, and spent many an hour  by her bedside.  It seemed lonely now  to walk much; she did not enjoy her solitary rambles as she once had.   It was a long time since Mr. Leland had called at Uncle John's, and he began to wonder why he did not call. One day Mr. Leland was sitting in his room, selecting his theme for the next Sabbath; he heard voices in the next room. Mrs. Wood was talking with the housekeeper at the Hall, with whom she was on very good terms. "How strange it must seem without Master George at the Hall," said Mrs. Wood. "Yes, it is lonely enough without him; his uncle misses him so much-he has gone to Europe to be away some years." "Gone to Europe, why I supposed he was coming back in a few weeks to stay here always. Why did he leave ." "I don't know as I ought to say, but Will said he heard George talking with Uncle John about going to Europe; that he or Clara could not be happy if he stayed; and that it was owing to something he said Sunday afternoon about Mr. Le- land's sermon, and when I went to Miss Clara's room after tea Sunday night, I know she had been weeping, and Will says he heard Master George say at the table that he did n't believe something that Mr. Leland preached about. I don't know just how it was, but I do know Miss Clara would n't do any thing she thought was wrong for any body. She seems stiller like now; but she is so good and kind. She goes to see old Nancy very often, but- she don't go out as much as she used to. To-day she don't look as well as usual. She goes about with a shawl on. Master George was very lively, and his Uncle John is disappointed because he left so soon. It always seemed to me that that would be a match yet, and that then Uncle John would be very glad to have them always together with him."   304           OLI . "So every body thought,"' said Mrs. Wood, " and only this morning I heard that Master George had gone away to settle some business affairs, and that there would be a wedding at the Hall this fall." "You can't place any dependence on what you hear," said the housekeeper; "I am sure I wish it was true. It would seem pleasant once more to have a wedding, we have had so many funerals." "Miss Clara don't look very strong," said Mrs. Wood.. "No, she is not; sometimes I guess she thinks of her home; it was rather hard to bring her away from them all." "She has seemed sadder like since her father's death, too. She is almost perfect. I never saw the like of her before; she is too good for this world. What's that noise? Didn't somebody come in, or was it a mouse? These mice do make such a racket." "No: I guess it was Mr. Leland going out; I always know his step. I'll look out of the window and see. Yes, that 's him, and I guess he's going down to see old Nancy. I thought he was out, or I would n't have talked so loud. I should n't wonder if he had heard all we 've said; but I don't care if he has." "She 'll be glad enough to have him come," said the house- keeper. "Poor woman! I don't think she can last long. I don't believe she could have lived as long as she has if Miss Clara had n't given her wine, and made such nourishing food for her. I could n't help but thinking of her last Sunday, when Mr. Leland said so much about the blessing of doing good." "I think Mr. Leland preaches better every Sunday," said   SABBATH AT UNCLE JOHN'S.         305 Mrs. Wood; "but I really don't believe he's able sometimes. I think he has not seemed quite as cheerful for a few weeks." "4 Will said the other day, he thought Mr. Leland was the best man in the world." "Well, I don't know but he is right; I never saw a better," said Mrs. Wood, 'd and I certainly can judge a little. There 's no way you can know people like living with them. Some people put on their religion every Sunday morning, and take it off, like their coat, at night, and lock it up very carefully all the week. I 've seen such ministers before now; they'd be very solemn all day Sunday, but, during the week, you would n't dream of their being a minister, unless they wore a white cravat." "Bless me!" said Nelly, " it is four o'clock; I must go:'   CHAPTER XXXII. BLIND   NANCY. "I have walked the earth for fourscore years, And they say that I am old, And my heart is ripe for the reaper, Death, And my years are well-nigh told. "I am willing to die when my time shall come, And I shall be glad to go, For the world, at best, is a weary place, And my pulse is getting low." POOR old Nancy thought she was dying. Clara had been eyes and hands for her a long time. She had brought her medicine and food, and, before she was so very ill, had drawn her out in the big chair before the cottage window, that she might breathe the fresh air and smell the flowers. She had often bathed her feverish brow, and prepared many nice things for her to eat. She had read to her from her precious Bible, and knelt by her side in prayer; and now that death was coming, the aged saint wanted to give her her dying blessing. A message was quickly sent to the Hall, and quickly re- sponded to. Throwing her shawl around her, and taking a little bottle of wine in her hand, Clara was quickly on her way to the cottage. She moistened the parched lips of the invalid, and raised her up on the pillow; it seemed to revive her a little.   BLIND NANLY.    '   .   307 "'Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil,'" said Clara, "'thy rod and thy staff they comfort me.'" "Yes," said Nancy, "and they have strengthened me through a long and dreary pilgrimage. God bless you for all you have done, Miss Clara; may ministering angels ever watch over you when you pass through the dark valley. I can not see you, but I shall see you in Heaven. I have walked in darkness long, but soon I shall see the glories of that land of light-they are bursting already on my soul. "'There is no night there,' Miss Clara. To you, under God, I owe that peace that fills my soul; T can give you my last blessing. I am going to leave this poor old body. I shall soon have an inheritance ' incorruptible and undefiled.'" Clara knelt by the bedside of the sufferer, and prayed that the Comforter might be with her in this last hour. No sound fell on the ear of the dying; the daughters of music were brought low-the silver cord was being loosed, and the golden bowl was almost broken. The breath of the sleeper grew fainter and fainter. The sobs of Susy and Johnny, the little orphan grand-children, alone disturbed the stillness of that cottage home. She was their last earthly friend. Silently Mr. Leland had entered, and slowly and :solemnly he said, " 'I am the resurrection and the life: blessed are the dead who die in the Lord, for they rest from their labors, and their works follow them.' 'So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom.'" It was a lowly cottage, yet it was honored by the presence of the: High and Holy One, and a convoy of bright angels   308            OLIE. may have borne the freed spirit to its home. Long tried and weary, poor old Nancy had entered into rest. Walter Leland had not met Clara for weeks until he met her, in that solemn hour, by that bed of death. Mrs. Wood, and other ladies, were soon there, performing the last offices of kindness ; and they urged Clara, who looked really ill, to go home and rest. Mr. Leland went with her to see Uncle John about some arrangement for the funeral. Clara went to her room, and Mr. Leland remained some time. When he left, Uncle John urged him to come often, they were so lonely now. He called soon again; and their intercourse was as pleasant (as ever. Death is a great leveller; and it is as mysterious in its coming in the low-roofed cottage as in palaces. It spurneth all distinctions, and levels all; and mourners as sincere linger around the couch of the poor as follow in the long train of the illustrious dead, when borne to its last resting-place. There is a narrow house appointed for all the living; "Doorless is that house,        ? And dark it is within." There is another house, not made with hands, of -which Death has not the key; there was poor old Nancy safe. There are bodies terrestrial, and there are bodies celestial. In darkness walked poor Nancy here, until her worn-out body returned to dust; yet radiant might be the body celestial, clothed in white, before the throne. How sudden the transition from a couch of pain to a rest forever on the banks of the river of Life,   BLIND NANCY.           309 Sightless eyes opened to behold ineffable glory; voices, mute on earth, may swell their highest anthems of rapture in the Church above. Among the 'harpers harping' Their joyous anthems swelL   CHAPTER XXXIII. TABLE-TALK AT MSS SCHOONMAKER'S. "Oh wad some power the Giftie gie us To see oursels as others see us t It wad frae monie a blunder free us, And foolish notion."     BuRNs. "'Tis with ourselves that we are thus, and thus." SHAKESPEARE. 'TWAS evening-the same sun which had looked within that beggar's roof upon the dying pauper's bed, had sent its last golden rays on the crimson brocatel and embroidered lace that newly-covered Miss Schoonmaker's windows; and the soft mellow  light of the shaded gas fell on the beautifully- tinted wine-flasks and elegant china scattered in seeming careless profusion along the table. Here and there were plates, with two or three oranges remaining on them, and near them a few rich clusters of grapes. At one end was a nearly-demolished  pyramid of cream, and  glasses here and there along the table, containing only a few drops of spark- ling Champagne. It was nearly half-past seven.   Most of the boarders bad left the dinner-table-a few were still lingering over their coffee-cups. At one end of the table were two ladies, Mrs. Reed and   TABLE-TALK AT MSS SCHOONMAKEnRS. 3" Mrs. Wilkinson; they were widow ladies, and always sat to- gether at the upper end of the table. Mrs. Reed had fine taste in dress, was a good judge and critic of equipage, furni- ture, etc.; and none of Miss Schoonmaker's boarders were more fastidious than Mrs. Reed. Dinner was her favorite meal. She had a decided preference for the second joint of the turkey, the first and largest spoon- ful of cranberries, she chose the largest specimen of potatoes on the table, always wanted lobster-salad when it was to be had; and as for the dessert, the richest, sweetest orange, largest cluster of grapes, the first dish of cream, always va- nilla, chocolate she could not endure, apple-pie she preferred- never rice or bread-pudding, they were too common, almonds and raisins she always liked; some of the gentlemen occa- sionally hinted that she kept a nut-cracker at her end of the table, for her own use exclusively, as one was invariably seen by her plate, no matter how destitute her neighbors. A deficiency on her plate of any of the greatest luxuries on the table was said to completely destroy her equanimity, and make her very unhappy.   Nothing could disturb her peace of mind so much as the waiters not frequently stand- ing near her awaiting her slightest request. She used to say, "She was a widow and a lone lady, so every body thought they had a right to neglect her, and she meant to stand up for her own lights; she would be waited on, or she would leave the house." She was not at all literary; she was too much occupied with the pleasures of eating and drinking and duly enjoying the good things of this life. But this particular evening she was in remarkably good-humor. She had been promptly helped to the second joint of the   312           OLIEt turkey, had had plenty of cranberries and lobster-salad. She had very complacently helped herself to two of the largest oranges on the table, eating one and pocketing the other- the waiters, too, had been unusually prompt and helpful. She was a great lover of coffee, " and all good drinks," as she said. Before her was a decanter of pure old Cognac. She had poured some brandy in her coffee, lighted it, and sat watching the progress of the burning spirit in her cup, wait- ing for the flame to die out. This process she thought added much to the richness of the coffee, imparting to it a highly agreeable Cognac flavor. She seemed in fine spirits talking with Mrs. Wilkinson. This time her conversation was not about the last new dish, how little salt there was in the pudding, or sugar in the cream; how the potatoes were not half-cooked, the roast-beef perfectly raw, and the oranges sour. She only watched her coffee, and talked about some one she had seen at the post- office that morning. The peculiarities of Mrs. Reed, who was privately called, by more than one of the gentlemen, " the grumbler," were tolera- ted at Miss Schoonmaker's because she hired the large elegant rooms on the first floor of this fashionable boarding-house, and paid a good price for them. It was reported too, that Miss Schoonmaker could obtain some extra advances from her, to be credited on the next monthly board-bill, as the occasion might require. While Mrs. Reed and Mrs. Wilkinson were thus leisurely conversing with each other, they were unconsciously trying the patience of the few gentlemen at the other end of the table, who had drank their coffee and cracked their jokes, and   TABLE-TALK AT MSS SC0HOONMAKERS . 313 were now significantly eying each other in the face, and quietly awaiting the departure of these two talkative ladies, that they mnight end the day's employment in smoke. They had been discussing theology, metaphysics, and ,polites; and some of them had become much excited, either over their wine or their discussion, as with sage expression and wise look, they "Reasoned high Of Providence, fore-knowledge, will, and fate; Fixed fate, free will, fore-knowledge absolute; And found no end, in wand'ring mazes lost;" and there they stopped, greatly satisfied, as they often had been with their customary conclusions, that God had made all things in vain; that this earth was a blunder, and the uni- verse an absurdity; that the most empiric divinity of the hea- thens was not guilty of a'greater humbug, and it was only to have a little capital fun that the Almighty tumbled these planets into space. Alas! how often the theories of short- sighted men would disturb all the harmony of the universe, and efface and destroy that garniture of worlds with which it is adorned. The ladies still continued their conversation in spite of the impatience of the gentlemen. "I took a letter to the office," said Mrs. Reed; " a letter from Mr. Leland, a minister some- where, I believe, a letter to Mr. Arthur Wilder, who is in the city now; it was left at my brother's house to be mailed; so I thought as I was going to the office, I'd take it. He writes a beautiful hand, that Mr. Leland does. Well, as I was going to say, who dA you suppose I met there, Mrs. Wilkinson ." ' I 'm sure I don't know," said Mrs. Wilkinson. "   314           OLIE. "Well, just as I was getting out of my carriage, I met Laura Brant, all rigged up, coming out of the office; she's taken off her mourning, and comes out gay as a but- terfly." "Why do you suppose she 's stopping so long at Miss HEoff- man's?" said Mrs Wilkinson. "She has n't many friends here; her mother must be lonely without her; it looks rather strange." "Oh!" said Mrs. Reed; "she came to attend lectures, do some shopping, etc.; you know Mrs. Brant has a delight- ful country-seat a few miles out, I suppose it is rather dull there." "Dull!" said Mrs. Wilkinson; I should like to see the place that's dull where Louisa Brant is ; she is very gay, very, for so young a widow; true, she has erected a beautiful ceno- taph for her husband, in the cemetery; there is nothing there like it; it must have cost a sight of money: and then her vail was long and heavy, and she was most scrupulously care- ful never to raise it; but it 's all off now: she dresses elegantly. There's no one near here that begins to come up to her. She's all for effect, when a girl I knew her well; that is, I saw her often; we went to the same church, lived in the same street, and met often; though I never spoke with her, and never wanted to; she walked as if the ground was not good enough for her to tread on. "She was a regular flirt, she always had somebody around her, and somehow or other the men would flatter her, and go round with her; men are suchfools, a pretty face will turn 'em upside down completely; they 'll follow one to the end of the earth. It was strange, how that Brant, such a sensible man, and so very fastidious, should so soon have been caught;   TABtE-TALK AT MSS SCHOONMAKER'S. 315 they say he wasn't acquainted with her long, only two months or so. "Louisa was artful, and a schemer. Where he lived there was a beautiful garden. In front of the house was a moss rose-bush. She passed there one morning, and saw little green buds on that bush; she had met -him   only once the week before at a party, anq was merely introduced. He did n't enter into any conversation, he did n't ask her to sing, to play, or to dance; her pride was piqued, her curiosity was excited; his beauty, calm, proud, and indifferent manner, at- tracted her. "As she passed his house one morning, she saw him just entering his door; he had been taking a long walk, and his countenance glowed with radiant beauty. "'I will have the first rose off of that bush,' said Louisa to herself, ' and he shall give it to me.' "She played her cards well. She did not love him at first, not a  bit of it; these women are strange creatures. "But he was the only man she had ever really admired, and his coldness won her. "She found out-women have some strange ways of learn- ing such things-that Mr. Brant's taste was chaste, plain, simple, and elegant, that blue was his favorite color. "She dressed herself in simple white or blue, arranged her hair plainly in front, massive braids behind, and on the top, which suited -well -the contour of her elegant head. One jewel only, and that a diamond, gleamed on her breast, one shone on her hand, none sparkled in her hair, but one simple white rosebud lay half hidden in her raven tresses. Thus dressed, one week after first seeing Mr. Brant at Mr. Leate's   316           O LIE. soiree, she met him again at a large party, where was a magnificent display of diamonds and pearls, gleaming out of the richest lace. "Brant had seen her many times, but this was the only time her appearance had attracted his attention. "Weeks passed; the heart was won and the rosebud given. I heard it said by those present at the marriage ceremony, that Brant had the look of a poet, the bearing of a prince, and the grace of an Apollo; but he had more. Something I know from experience he had, the heart of a true man. Never did kinder heart beat in human breast. My husband had performed a very slight service for him when a boy. Brant never forgot it. When my husband was very ill, the rent unpaid-my husband's salary was suf- ficient in time of health, but when sickness came, there was the rub-Brant came in; he saw how things were; in an hour a paper was sent in from the landlord, a receipt in full for the year's rent. It was all Brant's work. His kindness I really believed cured up James. He paid up the doctor's, butcher's, and grocer's bills. "It was long before James died, but he never forgot it, never to his dying day. The two have met now; if any man has a place in heaven, I 'm sure that Brant has, in the highest seat. It's a pity his wife and daughter ain't more like him. If he'd lived, his money would n't go as it does now-" "Did he give any thing to that child he took, that Olie, I think they called her 2" "Why, bless your heart, no, not a cent; that is, she did n't get any. The will was drawn up only a day before he died.   TABLE-TALK AT MSS SCHOONMAKER'S. 317 The morning after, he had a dream, a dream about the child, that she was sick or in trouble, or something of that sort. He seemed to feel, after that, some misgivings about the child, a kind of presentiment like, that something was going to happen, at least so he told somebody on the ship; so John Larkin says-you know John Larkin was second mate on that ship, and he's a second-cousin of mine--that's the way I came to know about it. "Well, as I was going to say, the will was drawn up, but, as I believe the lawyers say, it was neveir executed-if that had only been all finished, done up right, that poor child would n't have been left without a cent in the world. I 'm sure I don't know, nor nobody else, as I can find out, what 's become of her; if Brant had had his own way, the poor thing would never have been left behind, never; he was very much set against it, but that haughty lady and her proud daughter, put their heads 'together, and the two are a strong team, I as- sure you. Well, they put their heads together, and reasoned in their way about its being better for the child to stay at home, etc., etc. I don't believe they made him think it was best, but he made up his mind not to take her; I suppose he knew if she went, his wife would'make it so uncomfortable, that all Europe could n't hold her. "It was such a pity that will was n't all done up right; these wills make such a lot of trouble, I wish people had to make 'em whether they would or no; there's our family, some on 'em have n't spoken these five years, own brothers, too, all on. account of that little piece of land; we all knew father meant to give that to Joseph; he'd said so hundreds and hundreds of times, but Joseph never got an inch of it; it   318           OLIE. made many a heart ache and harsh word that might have been saved." "Don't you know any thing about Olie ." said Mrs. Reed. "Has no one ever seen her since Mr. Brant's death 2" "Only one person that I ever heard tell of; a gentleman who was passing Dr. Taylor's house once, and he saw a child singing and dancing with an old organ-grinder. I don't know how he knew, or how he came to hunt her up, but he did, and he traced her out and found she had probably gone into the country; so said a man who lived in the house; but you know as well as I that the country is all over, nobody knows exactly where. If she 's fallen into the hands of an organ- grinder, a foreigner, why she may be in foreign parts now. I'd give most all I 've got, and so would her old nurse, who lives just round here, to find her'; her old nurse lived with her mother three years; when Ohe was three years old she left; but she says she 'd know the child any where by the scar on her neck; it don't disfigure her any, but then any one who ever saw the child, and noticed it once, would see it again. This old nurse-Jeanette Mitchell is her name-says she. was baptized in church, and they called her Mary Lee, and that is her real name. Mr. Brant called her Olie, because he liked the name; her mother's name was Olivia, and he called the child Olivia or Olie; and had he lived, she would have been always called Miss Olie Brant. I'm sure she would, and she'd been rich too, if she'd only had one sixth part of his money-and handsome too-her mother was handsome before her-she had such a beautiful, bright eye. Now it is my opinion, Mrs. Reed, that nobody with fine, large, bright, speaking eyes, can be plain-looking, no matter what sort of features they have.   TABLE-TALK AT MSS SCHOONMAKERS. 8319 "C Why, I've seen eyes that were so bright and sunshiny- like, that they dazzled me; I could not for the life of me tell what sort of faces they belonged to; they seemed all eyes." "They say Laura Brant's eyes are very fine. I really be- lieve, between you and me," said Mrs. Reed, "she came to that boarding-house on purpose to catch that young lawyer Wilder; he 's smart enough, they say, for any woman. Laura has been all over Europe ; there is a good deal of style about her; and such kind of women are often taken up with such sort of noble, whole-souled fellows as Wilder. I don't know but she'll catch him, she has all her mother's art. I 've seen her walking out with him mornings; she gets up wonderfully early since she saw him; but if he does marry her, he'll rue the day he ever saw her; he might as well take a tinder-box to his heart. He's a nephew of Dr. Taylor, and Laura Brant has struck up a wonderful intimacy with the Taylors all at once. Only this morning she sent a most beautiful bouquet to Mr. Taylor, from their conservatory; there was n't a com- mon flower in it, not one. I met Sally carrying it with a card, and I asked her to let me look at it. You could n't buy such a one at one of the gardens for love or money. "I met young Wilder and her the other day walking up Broadway, she was hanging on his arm. I wanted to tell him something I know, but of course I can't; she's something like a snake, a winding end winding and twisting and twisting, and then she 'll smother one while she smiles so graciously, so sweetly; she broke young Edwards' heart; promised to marry him; the day was set, and she changed her mind; didn't love him enough, or something of that sort; I don't believe such a woman can love. Edwards was good enough for her   320           OLIE. any day, and he wrote such sweet poetry too. I guess she 's a little sorry now, his name has become so popular, he's talked about every where, and what's more, he's had a fortune fall to him through his uncle, who came back from India rich, real rich. I guess her conscience did scratch her a little, if she's got any such thing as a conscience. "The other day in company, Sally overheard her talking about Anna Harwood, the country school-mistress, as she called her contemptuously; why, Mrs. Wilkinson, Laura Brant can't hold a candle to Anna Harwood, and never could-coun- try school-nmistress indeed she is--but if she is, she 's worthy, of being a queen; she 's done more good in one day than Laura Brant in her whole life. I know God will take care of her wherever she is, she's been so good to the poor, she scat- tered blessings in many a solitary way when she had abundant means; some day or another, I believe in this life she'll have it returned to her, a full cup, 'pressed down and running over.' If she is a school-mistress, I'd like to go to school to such as she all my life. Laura Brant, haughty and proud as she is, might learn more than one lesson of .her-lesson in goodness and in graciousness. "You know my niece Sarah is rather timid, there's not a more timid girl than Sarah TWilkinson, but Mrs. Moreton always makes a dreadful fuss over her; Mrs. Moreton is rich, you know-real rich-and it is very kind in her to notice the like of Sarah; she invited her to her party the other night; the in- vitation was on such a beautifully embossed card--' Mrs. S. W Moreton, at home, Tuesday evening--then the card was done up in such a pretty, polished envelop, and directed so prettily to ' Miss Sarah Wilkinson, 20 Market-street.  There' was   TABLE-TALK AT MSS SCHOO N      A K E S. 321 a beautiful seal on it; that queer-looking fellow she has for one of her footmen, brought it, and he was as polite as you please. Well, Sarah was glad to get it, you know every body likes attention, but then she did n't want to go; she wasn't used to going; then she did n't know how to dress, said she should feel like a cat in a strange garret. But I talked awhile; I suppose I over-persuaded her, and so she fixed up and went; she looked real pretty, if she was my niece. As near as I can find out, she got in a corner and played wall-flower; this corner was near where Laura Brant and her mother sat for a few moments. -I suppose they thought my Sally too bashful- looking-green I suppose they 'd call her-to pay any atten- tion to what they were saying.' She did n't mean to hear any thing, but she was in a corner and dare n't stir to get out; I reckon Laura got excited talking something about the Har- woods, and talked louder than she meant to. 'Miss Anna,' she said, ' was nothing but a country school-mistress, she was vexed to think any body thought she knew her.' "*   CHAPTER XXXIV. BLIND    EYES OPENED. "--Dreams in their development have breath, And tears, and tortures, and the touch of joy; They leave a weight upon our waking thoughts; They take a weight from off our waking toils; They do divide our being. They become A portion of ourselves, as of our time; And look like heralds of eternity. They pass like spirits of the past-they speak . Like sybils of the future." BYRoN. "WHOSE painting is that hanging in your parlor, doctor- that one  over the piano?  I have often admired it, and won- dered who executed it," said Arthur Wilder to Doctor Taylor, one morning just as they had risen from breakfast. "That painting was executed by a young lady, a friend of mine, Arthur," said the    doctor.  "It was one  of her first efforts, and purchased by me at the sale of her father's furni- ture, some time since." "I 've  seen one almost like it somewhere," said Arthur, "only there was an old ruined   castle in the background.  Let me see where was it? Oh! I recollect now; it was at Mrs. Brant's.  I  rode out there the other day.  She has a palace of a  house.  I noticed the painting in the library-very much like this. I supposed, from what she said, Miss Laura executed that, and this too, I imagined this morning as I looked at it   BLIND EYES OPENED.          323 before breakfast, it so much resembled that. R Miss Laura blushed and said nothing, when, after her mother's alluding to her skill and talent in the painting line, I said, 'A painting of yours, Miss Laura, I suppose i' From her silence I inferred it was hers." "Miss Anna Harwood painted this," said the doctor; " and now I think of it, I heard it said at the time, that a friend of Mrs. Brant's bought the other, the one like this, only there was a castle in the background. There were two pictures framed just alike. I remember Mr. Harwood said long ago, that they were very valuable frames, and he had brought them from Europe. One of them was injured on one corner-a piece of the work was knocked off." "I noticed a slight defect in the corner of this frame," said Arthur; " it must be the same picture. And Miss Harwood you said painted it-Miss Anna Harwood; why that was the young lady to whom I carried the letter and a package not long since." "She is a noble girl," said the doctor, " and possesses rare artistic talent. She was the star in society here. I know of no superior to her any where. I often tell Mrs. Taylor, if I were a young man I believe I would fall in love with her." It was thought by many that Arthur Wilder had fallen in love with Laura Brant. She was certainly handsome, stylish, and was very willing to receive his attentions, evidently pleased with them. He was n't quite sure as yet whether she possessed a heart or not; but then he knew miscellaneous society was not the place to develop it. If the heart was a counterpart of the lovely exterior, it would n't be a difficult thing to win the affections of such a man as Arthur Wilder,   324           OLIE. who had a lofty idea of woman's purity and excellence, and a chivalrous deference to the sex. One evening, two weeks after his conversation with the doctor, he attended a large party, where he thought Laura looked and appeared remarkably lovely. He had conversed with her a long time, and was suddenly called out while con- versing. The business was soon accomplished; he returned sooner than he expected. As he opened the door he heard a voice saying, in low tones-the voice he knew was Laura's: "I wonder if Mrs. Minton really thinks I know any thing about a country schoolmistress like Anna Harwood, shut up ::11 day with a dirty set of young ones. How picturesque she must look; getting up early in the morning, making the fire, and sweeping the school-room. She should have her likeness taken, with a broom in one hand-a ferule in the other. If there 's any thing for which I have perfect contempt, it is a country schoolmistress. It was a piece of impertinence truly, to ask me any thing about Anna Harwood ; I never want to hear her name again. "I was afraid the other night Mr. Wilder would find out that that painting was hers." "You need not fear that," said Mrs. Brant; "Arthur is such an honest, unsophisticated sort of man, he'd never think of such a thing himself, and there 's nobody to tell him; there's no one knows it but us. Let him think you did it, it's just as well." Mrs. Brant and Louisa stood in a small recess. Arthur must either retire or remain where he was, until they went back into the parlors. "Do you know, mother, the other day we were looking at   BLIND EYES OPENED.          325 some daguerreotypes in the gallery, and almost the first face we saw was Anna Harwood's; it was very lifelike, and I'm sure it looked better than she, though I never dreamed of her looking well. There's no style about her; I don't think she has any thing of an aristocratic expression; she's quite a common-looking girl; her mouth isn't small enough; then her face seems never at rest, it don't look queen-like; she has as many different expressions as the rainbow has colors. I like something characteristic, a little spice of hauteur. I sup- pose out of curiosity, as it was the first face he saw, he asked me if I knew whose it was. Of course I was n't bound to know, and I said I did n't recollect having seen it; if I had told him he might have asked me a long string of questions, who she was, where she lived, and all about her; so I thought it would be the wisest 'course to seem entirely ignorant: but let's go back into the reception-room. Mr. Wilder will be here by-and-by, perhaps; and I'd rather be there when he COmes. The vail had fallen forever from Arthur Wilder's eyes. The slight fetters Laura had bound around his heart were broken by her own words. The motives which inspired her sometimes apparently lovely conduct were revealed-the contempt she really felt for the good and elevating principles of humanity, disclosed; her utter heartlessness and artfulness brought out with all the hidden envy, jealousy and detraction, long flourishing in that world-bound heart. Was Arthur Wilder fitful, capricious, or why did he treat her so coolly the latter part of the evening? thought the as- tonished, mortified Laura. He seems almost unconscious of   326           OLIE. my presence; his attention and homage were so polite, so frequent, almost respectful, and even fond. I imagined the last expression which fell from his lips, just before he was called out, when we stood before those heliotropes-the helio- trope is his favorite flower; he was talking about flowers turning to the sun, and hearts attracted to other warm hearts- I imagined his voice was so low and musical just then, he was about to say something tender, sentimental, or pathetic; but that good-for-nothing fellow called him out just then; how provokingly mal adroit!  Who knows but it might have been a declaration; some of these intellectual gentlemen are so impulsive about those things." A man had been suddenly run over by a carriage, and was so seriously hurt that his friends thought he could not live till morning. The dying man desired his will to be drawn immediately. He was in much agony,- and his arms were so mutilated, that it was impossible for him to write. The will was drawn up, and his trembling hand held, till he could make his mark. It was a sad scene, enough to make a stranger sober, to see a man hale and hearty, suddenly, by a dreadful accident, man- gled and mutilated, and laid upon his bed to die; decay be- ginning, death doing his work, ere life was extinct. Perhaps coming from such a scene, the great contrast be- tween fashionable life, its aim often to dazzle and shine, and death, stern, inexorable death, in a lonely quiet home, full of pale, sad faces, flashed painfully on Arthur Wilder's mind. Life as it really was, not as it seemed in that brilliant as- eembly sparkling with diamonds, each bright face bathed in the soft light of elegant chandeliers, so carefully shaded as to re-   BLIND EYES OPENED.          327 veal only beauty, and conceal deformity. The low moans of the suffering man, contrasted painfully with the sweet sounds that came floating on-the air, as Arthur Wilder approached the door of Mrs. Moreton's reception-room ; just then the tones of Laura's voice fell upon his ear; he paused only to hear, not the key-note of the melody of a gentle young heart, but the harsh words of discordant depravity. He was not in a mood to apologise for such an exhibition of feeling; he passed on; the current of his feeling entirely changed; strange that from such ruby lips should come such sweet and bitter words; strange that a voice hitherto so low and musical, should be raised to a loud angry tone to express serene contempt for an heroic girl bravely struggling against misfortune, once occupying as lofty a position as the fair slan- derer herself. Sympathy for an absent injured person excites new interest i-n one, of whom the knowledge or personal acquaintance is slight. From that moment, Anna Harwood was invested with new beauty in Mr. Wilder's eye; almost ideal beauty and excellence. He had seen her beloved and esteemed in a quiet country home, cheerfully enduring, nay enjoying, her poverty, and the close contact and companionship of those young beings whom Laura had sneeringly called dirty-young ones. Arthur had his ideas of high life, high birth, position, etc.; he had imbibed them from his mother, who was a Virginian by birth, and who had seen so much of rude ignorance in humble life, that intelligence and refinement in her opinion were almost invariably found connected with wealth--that a "country schoolmistress" could be elegant, accomplished, and refined, yet happy in her retired, secluded, humble home,   328           OLIE. would have surprised her more than it surprised Arthur. Yet every body was talling of Miss Laura Brant; she was a reigning belle, her dress was imitated, her expressions re- peated; she was an object of envy to many less beautiful and graceful, yet she was weary of that admiration which did not satisfy her, no conquest seemed to her of value until she had Arthur Wilder at her feet. For him she had worn her sweet- est smile, modulated her voice to the lowest key, thrown all the bright and tender expression she could summon into eyes that might rival Juno's; glided with studied carelessness in the dance; wore the flowers he admired most, adopted the style of dress lie thought most becoming, admired his favorite authors, quoted their poetry-how often she had vailed her own peculiar taste to seem to gratify his. She had gTown up self-willed and imperious-not a wish from a child had she expressed that money could gratify, that was not fulfilled. She was getting tired of flirting, and for once in her life her heart was really enlisted, enlisted strongly in Arthur Wilder's favor; she watched his movements, treasured up his smiles, dreamed over his pleasant words; weighed and meas- ured, fathomed them over and over in her chamber at night, to find, if possible, some hidden meaning in them, to recall if possible some, to her, flattering emphasis; each little word that might be construed into a fond or tender expression she hoarded up as a priceless treasure. Who can tell the strength, the strange wild strength of the passionate love of such -a self-willed, imperious woman? Her love for an object not quite within her power; she will go all lengths to grasp that object-to win its loyal allegiance. She   BLIND EYES OPENED.,          329 will barter truth, principle, all things dear, to secure it, and if she fail, how bitter her hate to the innocent cause of that failure! Laura angrily tore off her elegant dress that night on her return from the party, and when her waiting-maid un- bound her hair, she found her unusually exacting and im- perious. Laura caught a glimpse of her face in the mirror opposite; she exclaimed: "What a fool I was not to go to Newport or Saratoga! instead of wasting my time in this hum-drum society here. Ellen, you ring the bell for Johnny; I am dy-'; ingf for some ice-water. My head is burning up, it aches so; and put up that dress, I never want to see it again." Looking up again, her eye fell upon a portrait, a beautiful portrait of her father, the soft light fell full on his face; it seemed to vear a reproachful expression. "' Laura! Laura!" seemed bursting from those lips in tones of gentle expostula- tion, as they used so often to speak in life. In her dreams that night a little face haunted her; the face was Olie's, only far more pale and wan than it once was, the eyes were full of tears, a timid voice seemed to whisper "Laura! Laura! you made Uncle Frank leave me-leave me alone." Laura turned uneasily in her sleep, sighed heavily, and dreamed again; this time she saw Olie with her pale hands clasped tightly around Anna Harwood's neck; strange she should dream of the two together; " must that Anna Harwood disturb my dreams,' thought she-again she dreamed that she saw Olie and Anna climbing a steep hill all alone; as they advanced; a manly form approached, and, taking the hand of each, helped them up the steep ascent. Eare they reached   330  -         OLIE. the summit, Laura could see that Anna had a beautiful clus- ter of heliotropes*in her hand; around each flower shone rays of soft starlight; as if there were a tiny twinkler in each azure cup. From the top of the hill was a beautiful prospect, just like the painting of Anna Harwood's, in their library. It was a strange dream, and it troubled Laura, for she was just in the mood to be troubled. She lay awake till mid- night-the silver moonlight fell on the face of the portrait- Laura gazed a long time on the beautiful features, till she fell asleep again, and dreamed that as she looked at the portrait the lips moved, and uttered slowly in a sad reproachful tone, "Laura! Laura! where 's Olie, where 's Olie ." one hand was raised, and pointed to an open volume that lay on the table,; it was his own Bible. One verse gleamed in Laura's eyes, and on that verse shone a full blaze of light; the letters were large and raised. "With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again." Laura's mind was carried painfully back to a week before her father parted from her, as it proved, for the last time : they spent a whole evening alone together; his manner was even more kind and tender than usual. He said to Laura " that he had made a will a long time since, giving to her a large share of his property; that he should soon make another, giving Olie part of her share-he had promised to protect and provide for the child as longt as she lived; it was a promise made by the side of a dying bed. The sum he should give Olie would not deprive Laura of any luxury; she would still have a princely fortune remaining, enough to live as lavishy, luxuriously, and benevolently as she might choose. Olie should have an -income of a thousand a year. He said his conscience troubled him about leaving Olie   BLIND EYES OPENED.         331 behind in America; but did not reproach Laura for her part in the transaction." No wonder that Laura, who had never asked or inquired for Olie since that night, should be troubled by the sad re- proachful tone of her father in the dream, "Laura! Laura I where's Olie ."   CHAPTER XXXV. THE "COUNTRY SCHOOLMSTRESS," AND HER PROTEGE. Oh I make another's woes your own- And with a generous noble heart Supply their wants as soon as known, And wipe their tear-drops as they start. TAPPY, happier far than the city belle fevered with the excitement of  long dancing, anxiously courting universal attention and  admiration, was the "country schoolmistress," who was every day winning the ardent and enthusiastic love of warm young hearts. Frequent tributes of gratitude and affection called the eloquent blood to a delicate cheek, which was never mantled with the crimson flush of pride, envy, or jealousy. In the sky of her heart there was no shadow of a flirtation; no dreams of conquest haunted her midnight vision; she was as calmly and quietly dwelling among those village homes as if her feet had never stepped on soft, luxurious carpets; her eyes never feasted on sights surpassingly lovely; her form never mingled in the gayeties of fashionable life. The warm enthusiastic love and gratitude of poor Mary Lee was worth more to her than the flattering attention of a crowd of heartless admirers. One heart was warming and   a. .    .   ,-   - v W  *- N,.,. -.. ,W  , * v .v...' v,  kindling in the genial light of her kindness, kindling into health, hope, happiness, and beauty; even as the flowers, with- ered in the scorching noon-tide, raise their heads cheered and. refreshed by the south winds' evening kisses. It was only one poor little weak, timid, desponding heart; but it was a heart, and who knew the compass of that heart's love and truth, the good it might achieve in the far-reaching future, if it were cheered, inspired, nerved, and strengthened to bear the woe and grasp the weal, destined for it-marked out by the hand unseen all along the chart of the great to come. In the great cycle of facts, there were deeds to be done by that frail, weak hand. Vibrating all along chords, stretching on through time and eternity, there were kind words for that desponding, low sweet voice to speak. The time would come when the tones of that voice would be music to listening, loving ears, but it was not yet. That heart had lived for months in the past; the sweet face of a dying mother; the hurried good-by of Uncle Frank; the lost and buried bird, the deserted cage; the fare- well of Richie; Uncle Frank's death; John Martin's cruelty; Aunt Sally's harsh words. All these had made sharp, severe lines in that furrowed, stricken young heart; it was not like a young heart; it was too anxious, too care worn; it seemed old, old long before its time. Poor Olie, little did she think when she moved a happy, light-hearted child in Uncle Frank's beautiful home, that all the treasures she had or might have, 'would be crushed, lost, dead, and she left to struggle with sickness, poverty; and neglect, to struggle almost alone. Though yet young& as many older people do, she judged t'   334           OL IrE. of life by her own sad experience; it seemed to her that all dear mothers must die, all Uncle Frank's go to Europe, every bright bird take wing or suffer cruel death, and all dear friends like Richie be called far away. 'T is said "The busy have no time for tears." Poor Mary Lee was busy enough to banish the deepest grief, if care call chase away sorrow. Whenever Aunt Sally saw tears start- ing in those dark eyes, and that pensive face gathering new pensiveness, she would chide her abruptly for being so senti- mental, and send her off on some new errand, or make her perform some new piece of work, to cook something that musn't be burned, iron something that musn't be scorched, wash something that musn't be rubbed, starch something that musn't be too stiff. Mary could n't do any thing just as Aunt Sally wanted; if she was pleased with any of her work, the only way Mary knew it was by her not scolding her; it was, Mary thought, a very negative kind of praise. Then the evenings often she was not busy; then she would do up so much thinking, and that was the hardest kind of work for her; she would think over all the past, and come back to Aunt Sally's little old house, and then her thoughts would rest in the future, what change could she see? What hope of ever being wiser, richer, or happier? Aunt Sally would keep growing older, the old house could smoke no less, perhaps 't would smoke more; the winter's wind would howl more and more mournfully through rapidly-increasing crev- ices: things would probably be growing worse. Candles were three cents a piece, too much for Aunt Sally's slender purse; they used to sit in the dark awhile before   THE  AlCOUNTRY SCHOOLMSTRESS."      335 retiring, just as well Aunt Sally thought; they had no books to read, and it "wouldn't (do no good" if they had; and surely they did n't want " to see to think." After Anna Harwood came, things seemed different. Mary could get away occasionally evenings, and see her; then she sometimes would make a big blaze on the hearth with chips, when it came cool weather; the carpenters were building a house not far from them, where she could get her apron full of chips and shavings every morning; they were too poor to have a basket; so she would make a bright blaze every night, and crouch down on the old rickety hearth, and read a whole hour by the fitful fire-light the books Miss Anna bad lent her. Years after, when she looked back through happy changes to that narrow, dull, cold home, that old brown house, rudely built as if challenging all the elements {for its destruction, how doleful would those long, dark evenings seem, as a very som- ber background to a lighter picture. Mary Lee had no claim on Anna's friendship or kindness- none. Anna had other friends who claimed her sympathies, other hearts for whom hers beat warmly; for them, daily and nightly, her voice went up in fervent prayer to the great, kind Father above; to them her thoughts wandered in the still night; with them, in spirit, she often mingled in sweet, fond, close communion. The past, with its halcyon memories and golden associations, she had shared with them. She looked forward to the future to some bright, though distant spot, when all, once more, would mingle around the hearthstone, in happy fireside communings. Yet she had room in her heart for the sad, pale face that so often looked up to her with that mutely  eloquent appeal.   336            O LIE. More than once had she clasped her fondly to her heart, with tile firm purpose, so far as was in her power, to soothe every little sorrow that heart might feel; to plant, whenever she could, a flower-some wayside, tiny flower of hope along that lone one's path, whose fragrance might cheer the drooping spirit. " ' Silver and gold have I not, but such as I have give I thee,"' said she to herself, as she patiently spent hour after hour, hours designed for rest, in instructing that neglected mind in the elements of science--that neglected mind which made such rapid progress, surpassing all Anna's hopes or ex, pectations. 6   CHAPTER XXXVI. MARY LEE'S EVENING OUT. "Good verse, most good, and bad verse then seems better, Received from absent friends by way of letter; For what so sweet can labored lays impart As one rude rhyme, warm from a friendly heart?"A "OH! dear Miss Anna, I am come to spend this whole evening with you; I have been busy all day, and Aunt Sally made no objection to my coming." "I am very glad to see you, Mary; we 'll have a good long chat together; we 'll move the little table up to the fire; you may take the big rocldking-chair, and I will keep this little low chair, which Mrs. Giles has given me since I have been sick." "You are not quite well yet; are you, dear Miss Anna?" l Not quite, but I 'm much better; I 've been in school all day." "Aunt Sally said she saw you going up to the school-room this morning, and I was afraid you were not strong enough to take the walk yet." "I have been quite ill for some days, but I'm almost well again. What is that book you have, Mary 8" "It is the one you lent me, Miss Anna; I liked to read it l/  very much. There were so many beautiful thoughts in it. I never read any thoughts that please me but I have a great 15   338          OLIE. many more of my own: some of them seem good and bright thoughts, too. Something tells me they are not mine, only lent me. I watch them, just as I would so many stars that come out so bright at night, and then, when morning comes, are all gone. So my thoughts come to make a call, and then they go, and I don't see them any more. Sometimes, very rarely, though, they'll come to me in my dreams, after I have been reading; though I never have the same beautiful thoughts, as they only come once. I have n't been so happy in a long time as when I was reading it." "Do you ever dream when you are awake, Mary?" "I don't know but I do. When I was reading the book you lent me, I would stop once in a while and think, until I fancied I was far away, wandering under a sunny sky. You know the description is so perfect of the scenery; and then the ride Walter took was so delightful. "I could almost see the perfectly smooth, straight road leading to the lake. Then I could see the canal on one side, and the boats drawn by the negroes, and the banks covered with green grass, and flowers of different colors. On the other side, there were fruit-trees, oak, sycamore, and large bushes covered with heavy green foliage. Then I could see the locust and china trees, blackberry vines, and bushes, all covered with blossoms; and I fancied my hands full of the blue and red fleur-de-lis. It all reminded me of a description Uncle Frank once gave me of a ride he took near New Or- leans, on the famous Shell-road. I forgot who I was, and where I was, I sat thinking so long. I thought of Uncle Frank and home; and I don't know but I could have sat so all day, if Aunt Sally had n't come and broken the spell."   MARY LEE'S EVENING OUT.          339 "Mary, I suppose you were day-dreaming then. One of the greatest pleasures in reading is imagining it all to be real, and thinking and feeling and seeing with the people we are reading about; but there is danger of carrying it too far, and building air-castles, and forgetting present duties, and getting a distaste for the very commonplace things about us." "I think books sometimes do me good, Miss Anna, I long for change, my thoughts seemed shut up, they want place to breathe. I can't feel satisfied with the same things to do every day, and the same thoughts to think. I get tired of myself. I felt before you came, as if there was no enjoyment in life for me-as if I would like to die. "I never enjoy the same thing a long time. I believe if the -sky always was one pure, clear blue--no clouds flitting over it, I should weary of looking at it. These beautiful changes; these varying, flying, brightening, deepening hues are so beautiful. 1"Some days the sun sinks in the golden west more slowly than others, as if he hadn't had much to do. I want some- thing to look forward to." "Do you think that is a natural feeling, Mary ." "No, I don't believe God made us to live only to be wishing to die. Life ought not to be a blank, just to be filled up, or a smooth calm sea, to be sailed across, or a large book with only a title-page-there are now no contents in my life, it seems as if all the story was ended, or as if nothing was left but dull prose, the words all alike, the only commas, are the nights of sleep; the only calm, pleasant periods, are the visits I make with you, and the hours I spend in the old church." "Sometimes, Mary, you stop to make some interrogation,   i4U O          OL IE. and ask why it is all so; ihe chapters of your life are not all ended, I trust ere the pen of the recording angel writes finis, as page after page of God's providence unfolds, you may read useful and happy, at the end of many a pleasant day's chapter. You say you can do no good here; supposing that were true, ' remember, ' they also serve who only stand and wait.' " "I know I can do something, Miss Anna, I can sew and work and read too; yet I think God has given me powers to do more; there is so much to know, I do not know, then I have capacities of feeling, which I can not use. Are you happy here, AMiss Anna?" "What do you think, Mary?" "I should think you would long for a walk or a look into a larger, wider world, like the one you have lived in." "Do you think I 'd be happier, Mary, if I were living in some large and gay city?" "I should think you would be happier there than here, where there is nobody as wise as you are, nobody like your- self to talk with-though you can be quite contented because every body loves you, and looks up to you, and you can do so much good-yet nobody thinks thoughts like yours, or can tell so quick what is in other minds; you can call forth their thoughts and feelings, but they can never call forth yours." "Really, you have a very exalted idea of my powers, my dear girl, but you have yet to know how much happiness I derive from every living thing about me. I can be quite happy, Mary, if I can only be sure I am doing my duty, just where God places me; we all err too much in seeking for happiness. I have learned, and you will yet learn, that it can be found, as another has beautifully expressed it, 'in the high-  *s   MARY LE E 7S EE N I N G OUT.       41 ways of usefulness," a little road-side flower, whose unsought fragrance is perfume to the spirit; yet plucked or sought for at the expense of duty, it will wither in our hand. Yet I know, Mary, the feeling you speak of is very pleasant, that sympathy with minds like our own, that communing with a spirit really congenial. It is a blessing God grants sometimes, a little flower that springs occasionally in those little green spots, scattered all over our life's dustiest way, which we may pluck and cherish." "You were one of those flowers to me, Miss Anna, I used to feel that I could be so happy if only once in a great while I could see dear Uncle Frank, and tell him if I was tired, or if any thing pleased me. When you came, I almost thought he had sent you to tell me that somebody yet would love me, and do me good, and say to me just what I wanted to hear." "Mary, there is one Being who loves us both; who is very near us, who knows more than either of us, who hears every sigh, and who tries to make us happy, whose thoughts are higher than our thoughts, and who knows just what touch will waken joy or sorrow from those heart-harps of ours, for lHe made them, and they never yield 'true melody until He touches the strings.' He has given me friends to whom I write, and who love to send kind words to me, they have shared my past joys and sorrows, and I hope to live with them in heaven.' "Oh, Miss Anna, if I were always with you, I could do right, and think right, and the great Being who loves you, would love me too. I am happy with you, but often I think you may go away, and then there will be nobody left to love me. I wish I had a sister whose cheek I could preps close to   342           OLIE. mine, or a mother in whose heart I could fondly nestle. I have felt so ever since I lived at John Martin's. I tremble whenever I think of him. "Aunt Sally don't care about any body's loving her; I never can cling to her; she thinks there's no use in all these feel- ings, they are only sentimental and romantic. She says, ' all we want to get along with in the world is good common sense, and she wishes I had more of it.' But I would feel very rich if I had something of my own to love dearly. Aunt Sally says I am different from other people. Does she mean I am odd? I can't bear to be odd. There used to be a cross old doctor who came to see Uncle Frank once in a while; he had a queer way of talking and walking; sometimes he would walk out the door and leave his hat, and papa said he was very odd. Am I really unlike other people? I know I am pale and thin, and sober, but am I odd? It seems to me only wicked people are odd." "No, Mary, I don't think you are unlike others. God has not made us all alike. He has given us all hearts, but to some He has given finer feelings than to others, just as He has made our voices different: some are low and sweet, others loud and harsh. I don't suppose the angels in heaven are all alike. One star differeth from another star in glory." '"I often think I'd like to look into other people's hearts, and see if they are like mine," said Mary. "Our hearts are all wicked, all tempted and tried; but there is One who was tempted just as we are, and yet with- out-sin. He remembereth that we are dust, and /He pities our infirmities," said Anna. "My heart never seemed so wicked before, Miss Anna;   MARY LEE'S EVENING OUT.         343 the more I pray, and the more I think God hears me, the darker my heart is." "Mary, perhaps the light of His presence shining in upon it, shows you how dark it is." "What you said to me, Miss Anna, about Jesus Christ cleansing from all sin, has made me feel sometimes very happy." "It is very pleasant, Mary, to go to Him at all times. He can guide us in every difficult path." "When I go about the house," said Mary, " sometimes the verse of some beautiful hymn will come to my mind. To-day, when every thing went wrong-I mean this morning-the clothes-line broke, one of the shirts got burned, and Aunt Sally's boiler leaked, and the cat upset the starch all over the table, Aunt Sally was very much provoked, and she said every thing always did go wrong; it seemed to me she thought I was very careless; I was tired of almost every thing, and so I felt till this afternoon, when I was sewing, all at once these words came to me: 'Guide me, O thou great Jehovah, Pilgrim through this barren land. I am weak, but Thou art mighty, Lead me by thy powerful hand.' I said it over and over until I really felt happy, and to-night when I came along, and saw the bright stars shining in the clear blue sky, I longed to see Him who made them, and then the words our good minister so often repeats, came to , The hand that moves the stars along Wrote all the promises.'"   "Yes," said Anna, "and that hand guides our way, and He alone can give ' What nothing earthly gives, or can destroy, The soul's calm sunshine, and the heart's felt joy.' And we, like little children, may ' dwell under the wings of Omnipotence,' and resting in the bosom of infinite love, may spend our lives here in peace, and a happy eternity together. We will find then that these little trials here are only the bright,designs treasured up for us. "If we could only see the movings of the invisible hand, we would not 'Murmur 'neath the rod, nor yield us to despair, For each sad moment here, are years of pleasure there.' I have had a  letter from my sister Clara, and she says she is afiaid she would never have been a Christian without trials, that now she sees they have done her good." "I wish somebody would write me a   letter, Miss Anna, then it would seem  as if there was a  little white path out of Elmville on which my   thoughts could walk. I like to think somebody way off is thinking of me, and cares for me." "Last week, Mary, when I   was quite ill, I had a dear little letter from sister Ella; it sounds so much like her, perhaps you would like to read it, it is so affectionate, I prize it verv much; here it is, you may read it if you wish." Mary read aloud these last three verses: I think of thee often, and often would fly To meet thee, embrace thee, and gaze in thine eye; To cheer thee and comfort thee, call thee mine own, And bid o'er thy pathway sweet flow'rets be strown.   5When sickness comes o'er thee, I'd whisper to thee How loved and how dear was thy spirit to me; I'd bid thee take heart, bold breasting the storm, And seek giant strength, though feeble thine arm. Then think of me ever, dear sister, as thine, Thy sorrows, thy joys; and thy trials are mine; And believe thou sincerely I ever will be A faithful, a loving, kind sister to thee. "Oh, I wish- I had such a sister," said Mary; " who would pray for me and love me so dearly. Did you answer it, Miss Anna, and may I see the answer?" "Yes, you may bring me my folio, and I 'll get it for you. I wrote it as soon as I received hers, the day I was so very ill. I don't attempt rhyming very often, but I could not resist answering such a sweet tribute of sisterly affection." "Now, may I read it, Miss Anna 1" "Yes, if you wish." TO SIS ELLA. 'T is night without-the fire within, Is blazing bright and free, While I beside my hearhstone sit, And, sister, think of thee. With magic speed along the past Does mem'ry haste her way; Each deed remembered seems the last- All fresh as yesterday. Our early home smiles by the stream, Still gently glides the rill, And brightly does the sunlight gleam Upon the violet hill. The blood-root, and the lily bloom Along the meadow lane, 15:   V 14 UL V. t And in the fields the daisies loom Up 'mid the waving grain. But with the sunlight gliding by, Dark shadows steal along, Clouds gather in the brilliant sky- Why sadden I my song? Why should I mind thee of the hours When first we learned to sigh, And sat amid the smiling flowers With downcast tearful eye? Say, dost thou treasure yet the light Of loving, laughing eyes? Does no dear brother glad thy sight As mem'ry backward flies 8 Methinks I see the coffin now, As in the hall it lay; My hand is on my brother's brow-- Oh, it is cold as clay. Years hasten on, we meet and part; We part and meet again; But heart still fondly joineth heart, Love waxes-not to wane. We're distant from each other now, Cares gather thickly round, And sorrows often dim the eye, But prayers for each abound. My tongue and pen would fail to tell How oft I think of thee, And on each act of kindness dwell; How dear thou art to me I Though I am caged like many a bird, I send my thoughts on wing; From mem'ry's fount bright things are stirred From olden lays I sing.   And many an hour glides swiftly by Thus charmed along its way; Enchanted, I forget to sigh, And night is turned to day. I wish thee .health, a heart content, Whatever be thy lot; A life prolonged, and useful spent In some glad pleasant spot. But whereso'er thy footsteps tread, May God thy guardian be, Shed heavenly blessings on thy head, And bless, and comfort thee. And when thy pilgrim path is trod, Oh, may thy summons be; Come, dwell forever with thy God- Oh, blest eternity. May we together join the throng Around the great white throne; United, sing Redemption's song, And know as we are known. "Ella is something like you, Mary," said Anna, as she finished reading it; " you have made me think of her all the evening, while we have  been  talking.  Here is another letter I received lately from Julie, an old schoolmate of mine, you- may see. part of it, if you would like. "She writes just as she talks; she would like to be near me. She has no father or mother, Mary; she is in a large school with many other young ladies, but she sometimes feels lonely, as you do--she wishes she had a mother and sisters, and a pleasant home." "I wish I could see your sisters, Miss Anna, Clara and Ella. I remember how Ella used to look; her hair was like yours, and her eyes too, only they were a little darker."   348            OLIE. "I will tell you all about Clara somne time," said Anna; "she lives with Uncle John; she is lonely, too, sometimes. We all want somebody near us to love usoand in the wide world there 's nobody like a mother or sister.) My mother's love has thrown a charm around every thing to me. I wish I could see her to-night, and throw my arms around her neck, and kiss away the tears that come so often on Ella's cheek." After Mary left, Anna took up the book she had lent her, and turned the pages over carelessly; as she did so, a paper, which Mary had probably left in it through mistake, dropped on the floor. Anna picked it up, and seeing something like rhymes on one side of it, written faintly with a pencil, her curiosity was excited. One chapter in the book had this heading: "The heart knoweth its own bitterness, and    a stranger intermeddleth not!"The lines were suggested by something in the article which had touched a chord in Mary's heart. The first verse, as well as Anna could inter- pret the faint, hurriedly-written characters, was this: Vailed is man, a shadowy being, Passing through life's convent drear; Seen by none, no spirit seeing, Every heart goes black-ailed here. Side by side each nun-heart walketh- The lines of the next verses were very faintly written, but Anna could read the last verses with some difficulty. Our Great High-Priest above, alone, In temple of the heart hath throne; Its " inmost holy" enters in- The mystic curtain rends in twain.   MARY LEEDS EVENING OUT.         349 Soon captive heart shall burst its chain, When dust to dust returns again; Freed spirit find its long-sought goal, And soul, znmmasked, commune with soul. "Strange thoughts for one so young!" thought Anna, as she puzzled her ingenuity to find some way of giving the paper to its author, without embarrassing her; she concluded to slip it in unobserved some time among Mary's drawings; curiosity prompted her to examine the book, and another scrap of paper lay folded between the leaves, in which was written an article on Genius. The penciling seemed sug- gested by the article, and was written in Mary's peculiar hand. She had had no regular instruction in penmanship, yet she had a style of her own, clear and smooth. A kindly god-mother is Genius; and many a PCinderella- soul she summons from  the chimney-corner of contempt, strips of its rags, clothes in her brightest robes, and bears it on radiant wings in her chariot of glory to the haunts of the highest and haughtiest, to be the laurel-wreathed, and chosen bride of Fame. "Poor child," thought Anna, "who knows yet what thy future may be. A kinder hand than Genius may yet lead thee to some pleasant home; thou hast just such a warm, true, loving heart as a fond mother might be proud-of. "There are trials in every situation. I must read Julies letter once more. I am sure, I am quite sure, every thing is right,  God knows what is best; but Mary Lee would be so happy in a home; and Julie, how strange that she should be deprived of the only tender guardian she had.'-   CHAPTER XXXVII. JULIE'S LETTER. "Some, lucky, fnd a flowery spot, For which they never toil'd nor swat; And others, like your humble servan'- Poor wights I nae rules nor roads observin'; To right or left eternal swervin', They zigzag on."        BS. "I HAVE taken my pen to rattle off a letter to you, dear cousin Anna, in the shortest possible time, and send this af- ternoon. Miss Spyall says young people ought never to write letters in a hurry, but if all young people have as much to do as I, I don't think they can take her advice; I have no lesson to say in Day's, so I have gained half an hour; I don't mean Day's Algebra, for that I have finished, and am now in the depths of mathematics, logarithms, trigonometry, mensuration, and have so filled my brain that there is hardly a corner left for any thing else. I dreamed last night I was at the head of the mathematical department, under the General Government, and that I gave universal satisfaction in the discharge of my office. Oh, how I did measure angles in my sleep! but if I go on thus I 'll measure them here, I'm afraid. "I can not tell you how much I  appreciate your kindness in writing. Dear Anna, you never felt too much for me, and I am sure you never said more than you felt. I do not love a   J U Ll i 1S hL T '.L'       U X . IO1 great many people; but you are one of the few I love very much. Romantic friendships, I think, often prove transitory, but I am sure ours is not romantic. You say I must write what I do and what I think about. "My life is so monotonous, that what you imagine me doing one day, I do every day--they say they are the happiest who have the fewest events to relate, and I believe it is true, for the most eventful parts of my life have been the least happy. So, except when I want a little news, I do not care for events; I do not want to be in love, or to have any one in love with me. Friendship is a very quiet, happy feeling; but its cousin is not, and I want nothing to do with so turbulent a guest. But I will tell you how I feel as far as I can. Mine is a mind where there never is a calm. Some feeling or other is always in commotion there. Now, I am thinking about the coming examination, and I feel somewhat sober. I suppose, as one of the girls says, the world will be there, and a great many besides.  "There are a hundred of us girls, seniors, middles, and juniors; quite an imposing appearance we will make in the seminary hall. The girls are quite interested in their compo- sitions too; prizes will be awarded, and all covet the honor of winning them. .You seem to think it must be very easy for me to write a composition; but if you saw my weekly pro- ductions, you would n't judge my mind to be so well dis- ciplined or my imagination so fertile as you now imagine. I don't believe the power of composing was ever given to me; I used to think I would like to be an authoress, but since my compositions are such signal failures, I have given up in despair. I mean, if I can, to write a geography for   children, for I think a good one is much needed, and it will not require any great stretch of imagination for that. But my ambition flies no higher, perhaps I might write some. thing else which would not require a very great flight of fancy, and which would enlighten people's minds a little; I would call it the Lights and Shadows of Boarding-school Life. I do believe there are some people who think boarding-schools are a kind of intellectual paradise, where remarkable ideas and polished manners spring up spontaneously; where science sheds its brightest rays, and the Pierian stream flows forever, and fountains of truth and goodness are perpetually upwelling, and the tree of knowledge offers its fruit for the healing of all ignorance.  I am sure there is a knowledge of good and evil both-those delicious fruits that tempt the eye when examina- tion comes, often  all through the term like the apples of So- dom, turn to ashes on the lips: but I am getting sarcastic, and now things in many respects are really much improved here. "The girls don't put the clock forward any more, though they do have to practice two whole hours; and then we don't take as many walks in long strings as we  used to; I really thought, Anna, I knew just how many panes there were in all the windows, and bricks on the walks. I used to count them sometimes, we were obliged to walk along so straight. I was always glad to have a rainy afternoon come, so I could stay in and have a little time to myself. Sometimes we could get one of the teachers to go with. a few of us for a little walk. "There is a little store up street where we can buy small pies for sixpence apiece, and good fresh gingerbread and cake too.   Once in a while we'd buy fresh rolls. One of the girls from the country would sometimes bring us a pound of new sweet butter, and we'd have quite a treat in our rooms. We 'd lock up the pie and cake in our drawers. Miss Pyncheon thinks the mice wonderfully increase in the third story. Kate says she should n't wonder if she did smell a rat up there one of these days. I suppose it is against the rule to buy such things; but I don't think it 's any worse than buying confec- tionary, and that we are allowed to do quite often, perhaps that does not injure the reputation of the institution. "Ice-cream we get once a week, sometimes oftener, if we can get one of the teachers to go in with us; if we treat her, she says nothing about it-she never tells of us then. Kate says one of the teachers pities us-perhaps she does; some- times we pity all of them. They are expected to report all of our sayings and doings: we can't put our heads out of the window without it is their duty to tell of it. They have to work hard; Miss Pyncheon only puts her head in the school- room occasionally, to see what we are all about; she does nAt teach any herself. The teachers must see that we walk afte' school; then practice, practice till study hour, when it is study, study, all the time. "We must be in bed by ten, in summer; the lights must all be out, and that they are very willing to be, being like the lamps of the foolish virgins. "Sometimes we go down stairs and get our own lamp, and pour the contents of- two or three others into ours; so we do see a little occasionally. But our gain is quite a loss to some, who are less fortunate, and who are left in the dark. "There's some cheating in our recitations. The best schol-   354           OLIE. ars (Miss Spyall calls them the best) recite page after page, verbatim; and some of the rest manage to read off long answers, and it really sounds quite as well. "But now all begin to study more, it is so near examina- tion; and Miss Pyncheon is a great deal pleasanter too; and we don't get as many lectures; and last night we all had a little ice-cream in the parlor, we did n't know what was going to happen. "For two or three days we have had excellent dinners; the girls say we always do near the close of the term. "To-day we had vegetables, baked beans, stuffed veal, beef, cold tongue, for the first course; and then tapioca pudding and custard pie; and after dinner we had almonds and raisins. Two ladies dined with us, who are from the South; they are going to send some scholars next term, the girls say. Mrs. Holt will send three, and Mrs. Chipman's niece and sisters are coming. But I have little time to write now; I must thank you again for your kind letter, and the deep interest you man- ifest in my welfare. I never could talk freely with any-one but you on serious subjects; and yesterday some remarks in the morning sermon brought your letter and you very vividly to my mind. Anna, I do have a great many solemn thoughts; I am not so thoughtless as every body thinks me; the close of this term being so near, only adds to my melancholy feel- ings. Oh, Anna! I would like to be a holy and a useful woman, just such an one as my own dear mother was. What partings will soon take place here-some for life, some for eternity, to meet no more, perhaps! I feel it more as I think of so many returning to their homes. "How many long years will pass over our heads before we   JULIES LETTER.         355 meet again. How changed may be those who shall part on that sad day ere they see each other again. "I have no home to go to, and my thoughts go back to my dear old home "'There is no union here of hearts That finds not here an end.' "Pray for me, dear Anna, that I may be fitted to dwell with those dear ones gone before in that better home. But' the bell is ringing, and I have a recitation the next hour. I shall hope to have soon another good long letter from you. "Ever your affectionate, ' JULIE. "P. S. I forgot to thank you for the little sketch you sent me. It was a very pretty little picture. I mean to copy and enlarge it. Here comes Miss Pyncheon: if she should see my letter, she would say there was no system or order in it. Well, I suppose there is n't; but it is something like the writer anyhow; and, once in awhile, I like to write without think- ing, and do something natural; for here I can't turn in any direction without a new rule stares at me., We have a new edition every Monday morning. We go to bed by rule, get up by rule, talk by rule, and act by rule-yet we can have our dreams by day and night too, and nothing can prevent us. "'Though words and deeds the statue blames with reason, But surely dreams were ne'er indicted treason.' " This was not the only letter Anna had in her folio. There was one more letter; and Mrs. Giles said she was sure she knew who it was from.   356           OLIE. Arthur Wilder had called more than once at Mrs. DaniL Giles's; he always said he had some business in Elmville. Old Mr. Giles thought it was strange there should be s much law business in such a small village as Elmville. Once Mrs. Giles was sure Miss Harwood had a letter fron the young lawyer; she would have given -all her old shoes Daniel said, to know what was in it. Sometimes she would try to tease Anna about our lawyer as she always called Mr. Wilder; but she could make nothing out of her, so she gave it up. Once she heard somewhere that somebody had heard some body say, that Arthur Wilder was engaged to Miss Laurn Brant, a young heiress, and was to be married very soon. So she came home and told Anna that folks said our law- yer was really going to be married soon; but Anna looked rather sober, blushed a little, and said: "Is he, indeed? well, he 'll make a very good husband." If the news was not true, Mrs. Giles was as much in the dark as ever.   CHAPTER XXXVIII. A NEW   FRIE NID. "Since trifles make the sum of human things, Oh I let the ungentle spirit learn from thence A small unkindness is a great offense; Large favors to bestow we strive in vain, But all may shun the guilt of giving pain." HANNAH MOBB, THE morning meal was taken, and Ella Harwood seated by the window to study, her favorite cat purring in the corner. The hours passed rapidly away, and soon it was school-time. Ella had caught her mother's trusting spirit, and with a smile, the despised bonnet and boots were put on, and kissing, and bidding her mother good-morning, she was soon on her way to school. The girls were going along before her in com- panies, all dressed handsomely; those whose sarcasm Ella most dreaded, had all the assurance, which wealth without intellect sometimes gives its possessor; and their position gave them, they thought, the liberty to say just what they pleased; and in their sight a patched or unfashionable gar- ment was an unpardonable offense, deserving cold looks -and severe speeches. Ella was the only one wearing a plain and patched dress, so she was the theme for general remark; and those even who liked her gentle manners, and pale face, cared not to brave the opinion of the rest, by noticing, or   358           OLIE.  appearing, the friend of one possessing such disputable claims to gentility; so Ella came and went alone; she began to feel that she was an unfortunate being, shut out from the pale of common sympathy. She was very correct in her recitations, but Miss Pyn- cheon took little notice of her; with so many about her, she was more lonely even than she would have been in some se- cluded spot, surrounded by birds she loved, and flowers she cared for; now, by contrast, her solitude seemed more per- fect, the solitude of a spirit with whose sympathies a stranger intermeddleth not. At noon Ella came rushing in, saying, "Mother we had a new scholar to-day; she looks just like our Clara. She has a pale, pleasant face, and the girls call her Miss Sherwood. She is dressed in deep mourning; she is very rich, and all the girls say they mean to get acquainted with her. "At recess, they were very polite, and all gathered around her, to attract her attention. She seemed kind and gentle; I don't think she is at all proud, like the other girls. I could not keep my eyes off of her, her eyes are just like Clara's. "She asked Emily Grube to introduce her to me, and don't you think, mother, she said she once had a sister just my size, whose name was Alice. She asked me if my father ever lived in N-- ? She said her father once had a friend whose name was Arthur Harwood, but he had not seen him in a long time, but that once they took a long journey together; and she had heard her father say that he had some of Mr. Harwood's letters. She said she would lilke to come and see you, mother. I don't think she is at all proud; you would n't think to see her that she knew she was rich. -One of the   A NEW  FRIEND.,         59 girls has seen her father's house, and she says they have a great many servants, and live in great style; that Miss Sher- wood had a fortune left her by her mother. Our room is so very plain, I don't like to have her come here." "My dear, if she is as- really refined and kind as you say, she will love you just as much, and esteem  you just as highly, if she finds you in a plainly furnished room, as if you oould receive her as you once could." "Perhaps she will come after school, to-night; I wonder if she loves flowers," said Ella. "I 'll put these geraniums in the window, and this rosebush, too. "Mother, won't you put on the cap father bought for you the last time he went out? and don't hide those curls any longer. I want you to look just as you used to. Just let me fix them, mother. "There now, I like to look at you," said Ella, as she stood a little one side, to see the!effect of her work. I 'll have to have you for my barber, I guess Ella, you do so well; but nodv go, you 'll be late to school, I 'm afraid." About four Ella returned, bringing her new friend, who greeted Mrs. Harwood with perfect ease and cordiality, and soon each knew the other's history. True refinement, com- bined with piety, unite two beings in strong bonds of sym- pathy, even though one may tread a lowlier path than the other. There is something in first impressions, and some spirits at once gain our confidence. In Mrs. Harwood's bearing there was unmistakable evi- dence of 'true worth and strength of character, chastened by affliction; in her manners, the dignity of a Christian woman.   360            LIE. Miss Sherwood had recently lost her mother, and repeated bereavements had softened and subdued her spirit. The conversation was pleasant to both, and Mrs. Harwood prized it as one of those very few visits of sympathy and friendship she had had since dwelling among strangers. Wealth benevolently employed, is a perpetual and priceless blessing; sympathy kindly given, is a luxury befitting the most gifted intellect and the loftiest energies. The young stranger knew not how much pleasure her visit had given the lonely mother and neglected child; as she went on her way, kind wishes followed her. Once more the two were alone again. Mrs. Harwood noticed something unusual in Ella's appearance, and said, "Ella, what have you done with your apron ." "It is in my desk at school." "How is that, my dear?" "Why, when I went to school, I saw the girls staling at me, and some of them almost laughed out. I did riot knotw what I had on to attract their attention, until at recess I saw some of them feeling of their aprons and laughing, and I heard Ellen Brown say, 'I guess that must be the apron her mother wore when she was a girl. I suppose she wears it to hide the patches on that old frock of hers; that everlasting frock ; I don't believe she has any other. I 'd stay home from school, if I had to wear one frock all the time; a pretty figure she makes in it, too. Perhaps she thinks those long curls are so beautiful, nobody will notice her apron ;' so when they had all gone out, I took it off, and put it in my desk, and when I came home with Miss Sherwood, I forgot all about it. I  did n't mean you ,should know any thing about it, indeed I   A NEW FRIEND.          361 did n't, mother; I thought it would trouble you; but mother, I asked God last night to help me not to care if I am some- times tried, and I do believe he helped me. "The tears came in my eyes at first, but I did not cry; and when Ellen Brown was trying to borrow a slate-pencil after- ward, I offered her mine, and my slate, too; and when she was just going to fail, in the grammar class, I whispered the word in her ear, and she- remembered the whole answer. I don't think it- was wrong to tell her, because she did n't understand the question. But yet I did feel badly, mother; you know father bought that dress for me, and the apron, too; he bought the calico the last time he went out; I remember how pale he looked that day. He was wrapped up in his great-coat, and his throat was muffled closely, too. He walked very slowly, and when he came back he looked so tired. He bought a number of things that day; sometimes I think he was afraid he might not be able to go out again. I don't know how he got the money; I guess he must have sold his watch, because he bought you a dress and cap, too; you know mother he bought some tea and flour, and he wanted you to get just such a dinner as we used to have, and he looked pleased when you put on the cap; it was trimmed with blue; you know he always liked blue. Dear father! I wonder why God took him, when we needed him so much. I wish he could be with us a little while, and we live just as we used to in our own home once more, and the girls could see how happy we were, and what a dear, kind father he was; but I know it is wrong to wish so, because God does what- is right, and father said in a little while we might come to him."'   362           OLIE. "There, go dear and water your flowers," said Mrs. Har- wood; " you are my little flower, Ella, and some time, I trust, God will show you that these rough winds blowing on you only fasten- you deeper in your mother's heart, and teach you to look up to heaven." There are hearts around us like harps, and God hath given many the power to waken sweetest music, charming away sadness from grief-riven breasts, and hushing the discord of trouble to rest-calling into being those little flowers which the hot siroccos of poverty and neglect have withered, flowers whose fragrance is perfume to the spirit, which may bloom again in the paradise above. "Now, is n't Miss Sherwood an angel, mother? How kindly she talked to me when we were coming home; and the tears were in her eyes when you talked about father. She smiles so sweetly, and then her voice is so very low." "She is certainly a very lovely young lady, Ella; but you must not idolize all you love. We will see her often, I hope, and if you admire her so much you must try and cherish her amiable spirit. Now go to the office, there may be something there for us." Mrs. Harwood saw something very familiar in Mary Sher- wood's beautiful face, an expression she had seen years ago. Money can buy food and clothing, but kind words can soothe aching hearts, and " twine the shadowy brow of care with roses." A word of sympathy costs nothing, yet it blesses the giver and receiver: it falls upon the "ear like some wild air of distant music, and its power, though brief, is boundless." How many mute lips, selfishy, coldly sealed, would burst forth in consolation, if the portals of the aching, uncheered   A NEW FRIEND.          363 hearts about us could be opened, tears would be chased by smiles, and mourning turned into music. God hath placed poverty close by affluence-woe in fearful contrast to joy- the crushed spirit in sight of the proud and happy, that man may pour forth that sympathy which is felt most the nearer he reaches heaven, and the better he is fitted for the compan- ionship of angels.   CHAPTER XXXIX. THE WEARY AT WORK. Of little things is life made up, And little drops fill pleasure's cup; From flower, and smile, and kind words, flow The nectar drops in life's cup of woe. VERY busy were the girls at Miss Pyncheon's school, one fine morning; compositions were brought promptly in, and lessons were well recited-apparently all were engaged in study. They all thought Miss Pyncheon unusually good-natured; so said the boarding scholars, too. She had had a long call from Mr. Linwood, the owner of a beautiful green-house, who had invited her to come with her young ladies, and visit it that afternoon. The girls were roguish enough to believe that the call had been particularly agreeable, as Mr. Linwood was a rich old bachelor. Miss Pyncheon certainly looked unusually well, and an- swered "Yes" to all their questions. At the close of the morning exercises she said, "Young ladies, I have had a call from Mr. Linwood, this morning, and he has very politely invited you to visit his rare collection of plants. The choicest flowers are now in full bloom. I hope you will be very careful not to touch even a leaf, or in any   THE WEARY AT WORK, 3.6 way trespass on his politeness, or injure the high reputatimo of our institution. "You may come at two. Each may select whom she pleases to walk with. I shall expect, as we are obliged to pass through the principal streets of the city, you will all con- duct yourselves with perfect propriety." The girls were very prompt at the hour, as they are apt to be when they expect any pleasure; and a fine-looking com- pany they were, too. Most had selected their partners, when Miss Sherwood, who had just entered the room, came up to Ella, who was standing alone, and said, "Come, Ella, you walk with me ;" an honor Ella gratefully accepted, and which any of the other girls would have liked. They were all soon walking about in the green-house, ad- miring the flowers, and some of them buying bouquets. Miss Sherwood purchased the most beautiful. In its center was a large japonica, the only one in bloom. "Ella, you may take this to your mother; I think she is very fond of flowers," said she. "Oh, thank you, thank you, Miss Sherwood; I would rather take this to her than 'most any thing else; it is a long time since she has had so beautiful a gift." "You love flowers, do you not, Ella ." "Oh, yes, better than 'most any thing. I would like to be a flower myself, sometimes.' "Why, Ella?" ' Oh, then every body would love me. I would only look up when it was pleasant, and when the cold wind cameI 'd fold up my leaves, and then when the warm sun shone I would open them. I always think of Heaven when I see a grer'   866           OLIE. many beautiful flowers. Clara says departed friends seem to her like flowers transplanted. 1"Brother Charles used to hold them in his pale, thin hands; and when he died, Clara and I planted them on his grave. "They are like old friends, Miss Sherwood; they seem to look up and say, ' When you are very far away from home, where nobody loves you, I'm glad to see you. " They soon reached the school, where they separated for the day; all had enjoyed their visit to the green-house, none more than Ella; all were wealthier, but none more happy. She felt richer just now than they all, as she hastened home with her treasure, unless it was Miss Sherwood, who had contributed so much to her happiness. If those who possess so many blessings, knew how much pleasure even flowers confer, how many buds of beauty would expand in the windows of the bereaved and afflicted, and more lasting blossoms of benevolence spring up in the heart. Ella spent the evening pleasantly, giving an account of her walk and visit to her mother; she described the beautiful roses, bright rows of verbenas, large oranges and lemons, and the delicate jessamines, as they raised their fairy-like heads among the scarlet fuschias, the little low pots with small rose- bushes, and tiny buds just bursting, standing near the door, and the passion-flower twining over the glass, where the fra- grant heliotrope and elegant salvias were rearing their heads in beautiful contrast. The bouquet too was examined and re- examined, and many an old acquaintance did Mrs. Harwood recognize among the graceful group. Ella was quite tired, and went to bed early-she was soon fast asleep.   THE- WEARY AT WORK.           367 Mrs. Harwood sat by her little table in deep thought. Those flowers had unlocked memory's casket, and " drawn back the warders of the brain," thrilled the chain of associa- tion there, awakened long-sleeping sensations, and her thoughts passed back over the interval of years, and the cool breezes wandering through the elm's branches, stirring the leaves of the rose and lily, fanned her cheek once more. Thought, that "is of all things the maist queenly, took things that were by-past, and set them down" before her; as she pressed once more the "green sward of the past," there came a waft of the feeling of "old times," from that much-loved garden, whose walks she had often trodden with those she loved; from   its "distant nooks" she could hear the ringing laugh of childhood; with every stem and leaf and flower, her hopes were linked; there the butterfly had fluttered around the tall hollyhock, lingered in the cluster of pinks, and the delicate mignonnette, floated over the lily-bed, and "settled on the violet's cup," the bees buzzed around   the sunflowers' broad, golden-edged. faces. Young hands had culled the flowers, and young eyes looked up to the distant stars. How many bright dreams were woven with those frail, beautiful gifts of God! "It is not vain philosophy to think that plants may keep A holiday of airy dreams beneath their graceful sleep." The flowers had all faded from her sight, and some of the hands that had planted and watered them were folded in their coffins. There are times when old memories have wondrous power, and old joys gather around us, and partings, the bitterness of   368           OL I E. whose sadness has been in a measure soothed by time, come up again; we press once more the hand of lost loved ones, Phoenix-like, from the ashes of the past they come, summoned by wizard memory's spell, and flowers, frail flowers, slight though they are, with the sweet perfumes of associations, "bring back on the heart the weight which it would fling aside forever." A- Mrs. Harwood was a woman possessing much strength of mind, but nothing could touch the spring of old memories like a gift of flowers. )  There are times when all the troubles we have had in the past, all we feel now, all we fear in the future, come " like an army of phantoms, vast and wan," to haunt and torment the weary soul. ^ Just now, Mrs. Harwood felt as if every thing looked dark; and Ella, her dear Ella too, seemed to have had so many little troubles. It was really a great trial to such a sensitive little body, to have her dress and appearance ridiculed; and Ella was so afraid of troubling her; she feared that there were really a great many other sources of annoyance, of which she was ig- norant. Then, since her sickness, she could not sit up all day, without fatigue-the side would ache-she must lie down awhile, when Ella went away to school, and rest-she could not sew as much as she had done, and Mr. Cutter had failed, and she probably would lose most of the money she had earned since her sickness. There was no help for it. Mr. Cutter said, " people were always liable to fail, and those who sewed for him must make the best of it. She was n't the only one to suffer-his own wife must do with two servants now."   THE WEARY AT WORK.          369 Mrs. Harwood was a beautiful embroiderer-she had done a great deal of work for Mr. Cutter, and embroidered three lace capes for his wife and daughters: she had earned money enough to pay her rent, and get something which she and Ella much needed. Mr. Cutter said he would pay the bill all together; so she had received nothing yet; and now, that morning, she had heard of his failure, and in the afternoon she had received confirmation of her fears, with the consola- tory remark, " that it could not be helped."' Mrs. Harwood intended not to tell Ella, it would only trou- ble her; and she tried to be cheerful and trust. The rent was soon due-not very much, to be sure, but a little is as much, when one has no means. She had found that God was a hearer of prayer, and to whom else could she go? She arose from her knees with a firm reliance on His protection, believing that He would lead her out of the difficulty. When the work was all done up the next morning, and Ella had been in school about an hour, something seemed to prompt her to go out and take the fresh air. She had placed a firm reliance on the money she had earned, perhaps trusted in her own strength too much; and now she felt her own strength to be perfect weakness. "Hitherto the Lord had helped her " these words came to her mind: "I He shall deliver thee in six troubles; yea, in seven there shall no evil touch thee."  As she passed along the street she. noticed a great many coming out of the post-office. "Ah!" thought she, " the mail has just been opened; I 'll step in and see if there 's any thing for us." The postmaster looked over his pack of letters, and was saying, "No, there's nothing for you," when he espied a large 16*   370           OLIE. letter, in a brown envelop, directed to Arthur Harwood; and turning round again, he said "Perhaps this is for you, or some one you know, ma'am." Mrs. Harwood took the letter and opened it. It was from one of Mr. Harwood's old debtors'who had failed in business, and had been sometime a clerk in St. Louis; it was written thus: "MR. HARWOOD, "DEAR SIR :-It was my misfortune some years ago to be indebted to you in a considerable amount-it was a debt in- curred under such peculiar circumstances, and causing you to make some sacrifice, I have felt very anxious to pay it. "Since my sojourn in St. Louis I have been very ill, and on my recovery my family were all sick. My wife and two children were taken from me by that scourge of our city, the cholera. "I have been unable, since paying the expenses of sickness, to accumulate any large amount; but I have recently heard of your reverses, and wish to send a little occasionally, until I am able to make up the full amount. The sum may be small, but I hope you will appreciate my desire to pay you; I enclose thirty-five dollars. With my respects to your wife and family,    I am, dear sir, your obliged, "HENRY KILBY." With a grateful heart and more-cheerful smile -than usual, Mrs. Harwood greeted Ella as she returned from school. That afternoon the rent was paid, some flour, butter, and meat purchased, and something put in the little benevolent   THE WEARY AT WORK.          371 box, as Mrs. Harwood called it; where, once in a great while, she placed something away to give; her widow's mite. As she looked into her little closet, it seemed to her they were out of every thing. Again she started forth, and this time she returned with some tea, and salt, and a few potatoes. They did n't have po- tatoes very often, they cost too much; they lived very plainly, and Ella sometimes looked wistfully at the beautiful fruit that was so temptingly displayed in the market as she passed; sometimes a sigh would escape her, and she would wish they were not so very poor. Mrs. Brown had quantities of peaches on her trees, and Ellen said "they were all tired of them, they had had so many. Why didn't she send one basket to one who would have valued them so highly?" There they were, ripe, and decaying. What a pity she could not see on- the page of her beautifully bound Bible "He that giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord."   Poor woman, she had so many good things she did not know how to dispose of-why had she never found -that " it is more blessed to give than to receive?" "Ella," said Mrs. Harwood that night; " that poor woman whose husband was so very sick has been here again this morning, you may go and take a loaf of this fresh bread to her to-night; we are out of debt now, and we can afford to give a little-that poor man has had hardly any thing to eat for days." ".There is that scattereth, aud yet increaseth; there are treasures being laid up on high, where neither moth nor rust can corrupt, or thieves break through and steal." The widow   372           OLIE. and the orphan were adding to that "inheritance incor- ruptible and undefiled," in those mansions, where dear ones gone before were awaiting them. There was a little money left, and that was, unknown to Ella, to be used for her benefit. Mrs. Harwood had kept Mr. Cutter's failure .and the let- ter from St. Louis all. a secret from Ella; she had a plan of her own, to surprise and please Ella. What was it? We shall see.   CHAPTER XL.. NEW-YEAR'S MORNING. "Breaks not the morning's cheerful light Forth from the darkest hour of night?" IT was a bright winter's morning, Jacks Frost had been to the windows of those who slept, and, like a fairy creeping over the panes, "Had left cities, thrones, temples, and towers and trees, All pictured in silver sheen." Bright eyes were opened early, and tiny feet hurrying down stairs, to examine the contents of the mysteriously-filled stockings. There were few lazy ones in any of the houses that morning; young hearts were full of joy, and old eyes must be open to witness it. It was New-Year's morning. There was one home where no hand had mounted the illustrious stocking. Quietly, and rather sadly, had Ella retired the previous night, her mind recurring to the delightful associations of happy New-Years gone by. She dreamed of trying to grasp two well-filled stockings, and just as she seized them they were gone. But morning came. Ella awoke, and there before her was   374           OLIE. a beautiful new dress; she rubbed her eyes; perhaps it was a dream. No, she was wide awake; and there it hung close beside the old patched one; its bright colors contrasting well with the old one's faded hues. It was nicely trimmed with velvet ribbon; it 'came quite up to Ella's ideal of a dress. She sprung out of bed, and taking it in her hand, she said to herself, "Now I can go to church without that old shawl; and here is a sack, too, just like it; it is quite long. I guess it will cover up those old boots. "Let me see how the sleeves are made. Oh, they are loose! and the capes are made just as the other girls' are, and there's a band on the neck, too; and here is a little collar pinned on it; how nicely mother has stitched it. "I wonder how mother did get it all. Why, here is a pocket, too, and a little bundle in it; this string is tied so tight I 'll have to break it. Why, here are some new, green gloves, just the color of the figures in my dress; I must try them on. "How nicely they fit; they have hooks to fasten them just like Miss Sherwood's. Now, I shan't have to keep my hands under my shawl, when I go to church. Poor things! they 've been in so long, they 'll hardly know how to appear out; and 'way down in the pockets, too, is a handkerchief, just such as sister Anna used to have, and in one corner is my name writ- ten in mother's pretty hand, I wonder if mother knew how much I wanted a handkerchief. Oh, this is a happy New- Year! But what's that on the table with a beautiful red- cover? ' Oh! it is a new Bible-all for me; and my name is on   /'           NEW-YEAR'S MORNING.         375 the back in gilt letters. Let me see if there are any pictures in it. Oh, yes! here is one in front; it is the destruction of Pharaoh's host; how wild the waters look, where the waves have carried so many people; and there is Moses standing, pointing up to heaven; and here is some writing on the other side, in mother's hand. Let me see what it is: "With cheerful feet thy path of duty run, God nothing does, or suffers to be done, : But what thou would'st thyself, could'st thou but see I  Through all events of things, as well as He." Ella laid the things out on the bed, and then went back a little to see how they all looked together. She thought the green gloves looked very prettily on the red and green dress. As she stood looking, she heard her mother call her. Her bright face looked very grateful and happy, as she entered their little sitting-room. She expressed her thanks very enthusiastically, as she threw her arms around her mother's neck. Oh! mother, that dress is just what I wanted, and the gloves match it so well, and that nice handkerchief is stitched so beautifully, and the collar fits so nicely over the little band. "But the Bible is the best of all." Before they had finished breakfast, somebody knocked. It was a boy, who said he was requested to leave a box for Miss Ella, "Oh, mother!" said Ella, "here is a box for me, with a nice cover, and a lock and key, too. Do, please, unlock it. I can't get it open."   376           OLIE. "There, there is something pretty on the top." Ella opened the box, and there was a pretty plaid shawl, very fine and soft, and warm, too; the middle was plain, and the border had a fine plaid all over it; and under it was a black silk apron (how strange any body should know how much she wanted an apron); it had little pockets all trimmed, with three rows of velvet ribbon; then there was some red and blue plaid for a dress. Last of all, there was a little bundle, in which were some drawing-paper, pencils, and rubber, and some pretty patterns; inside of all were a little purse and a note-the note was a request that Ella would take drawing-lessons, and the money in the little purse would pay the bill. In the afternoon a pot, with a beautiful japonica in it, was brought to Mrs. Harwood's, with a friend's love. "There, mother, somebody knew you was fond of flowers, and sent you that. Who can our good genius be?" The gifts were carefully laid away in the box, the japonica, installed in its new home, seemed to look up smilingly with the geraniums. Ella and her mother went out to take a short walk; the new dress and shawl were put on, and Ella, pleased and happy, walked by her mother's side. They found a letter from Anna, a long, beautiful letter it was; and Ella thought it was a good New-Year's present too. Anna had received some of her tuition money, and had in- closed enough to buy mother a good warm shawl, and Ella a pair of shoes, and overshoes. Anna had paid her board, and many other expenses, and now she wanted mother to have a nice warm shawl, and she had written how much she   NEW-YEARnS   MORNINGO       37 must pay for it, so she would certainly get a good one. Shoe wanted her to go out that day and buy it. Mrs. Harwood needed it; the weather was cold, and she had no really comfortable outside garment, so she and Ella went into several stores, and found one with a black ground, she could wear as long as she pleased. Ella's shoes were bought, and both mother and daughter felt grateful and happy as they returned home. Ella soon commenced her drawing lessons, and became much interested in them.                t Miss Sherwood came often to see Mrs. Harwood and Ella. She was very kind to Ella, and assisted her in school, and seemed to take much interest in her progress in drawing. The other girls were more kind to her now; none of them laughed at her any more; they, seemed to think any one Miss Sherwood took such a fancy to, must be noticed for her sake, and soon it was really unpopular to neglect- Ella. Ella was one whose manner, obliging and gentle, well fitted her for being a favorite with all. She was now quite happy in school, though she had but one friend there whom she really loved, yet none neglected her.   CHAPTER XLI. SOMETHNG NEW IN MARY LEE S LIFE. A pretty form, and pretty face, Manners pleasing, actions grace, 'Tis not strange that you're supplied With a little stock of pride. "WHO can that bet " said Mrs. William   Giles, as she looked out of the kitchen window; " he 's a handsome young man; if I only had my spectacles, perhaps I could tell. He looks like some one I 've seen before. I wish Susy was here, perhaps she'd know." Mrs. Giles watched him till he passed out of sight, and then turned round suddenly to the table, to wash up the rest of the breakfast dishes. "Dear me," thought she, " if that man had only come along a little later, I might have had all my dishes washed, but now the dishwater is cold, stone cold, and I ve no fire to heat any more." A few minutes after, as Anna Harwood was returning from the post-office, just as she turned the corner to cross the street, she met the young gentleman who had so much at- tracted Mrs. Giles's attention. "I wonder who that is, who stares at me so," thought Anna; "his hair is as curly, his face as white, cheeks as red,   SOMETHNG NEW    IN MARY LEERS LIFE. 379 nose as straight, and mouth as small as the dolls I have seen, the large dolls, elaborately dressed, in the windows in Broadway.' Anna was soon alone in - her room, eagerly perusing a -letter from home, and the young gentleman was forgotten. There was in his walk and expression a kind of conscious- ness that his personal charms were irresistible--that he was altogether more remarkable than any body could be in that little village. As he passed down the street, eyeing with his glass any person who excited his curiosity, he met an old woman, meanly dressed, with a large basket on one arm, a stone jar on the other, and a big blue cotton umbrella in one hand. Appropriating to himself two thirds of the walk, he brushed by the woman, and moving his arm rather contemptuously, hit the old lady's basket, partly upsetting it; and a bundle, lying on the top, fell out on the walk. Not condescending to pause to examine the mischief he might have done, or the trouble he had caused, he passed on, exclaiming impatiently, "I don't see why they have such ugly- looking old crones, with such tremendous baskets, walking about here; it is a perfect nuisance; they did n't used to have such things here ; I 'll teach her a lesson; she 'd no business to block up the way with her old bones." As he passed the old lady, he chanced to see, he thought, an old acquaintance on the opposite side of the street, going quite fast; so he crossed the street, and went down again on the other side. The old lady was still on the spot where he left her; she was muttering something to herself in a low tone, and trying   380           O LIE. to rub the mud off of some collars she held in her hand. There were about a dozen, carefully wrapped up in clean, white paper, which she had done up smoothly, without wrinkle or spot, and laid them on the top of the basket to keep them safe. They were rolled up loosely; and when the basket was so rudely shaken, they had tumbled out on the walk, and some of them had fallen in the mud. Water was scarce-fuel was high; the old woman had no more sugar, or salt, or spermaceti to put in her starch; it was getting late in the day; they had been beautifully done up, but now they were entirely spoiled. She had promised posi- tively to have them returned to their owners by eleven, and it was now five minutes of eleven. Poor Aunt Sally--for it was she-was quite discouraged.   She wiped away the drops which came in her eyes, with the corner of her old shawl. The wind was blowing keenly, and she shivered as she picked up the collars, tossed them into the old torn basket, and turned her steps homeward. She then gave Mary the collars, with directions to re-wash, dry, starch, and iron them, as expe- ditiously as possible. Mary had anticipated a few hours of uninterrupted leisure; problems should be solved, translations finished, and, perhaps, a whole half hour could be given to that drawing which she had commenced more than a week since. But these collars must be done up. Aunt Sally started off once more to take the other bundles to their respective own- ers. It was a long time before Mary knew to whom she was indebted for this extra trouble. This was Saturday noon. All the people of Elmville went to church regularly on Sunday; every family was duly represented.   oUz^A'L'trltT { NENJ W IN MARY LEE'S LIFE. ;01 Sunday morning came, and in the corner of Mr. Judson's pew, leaning carelessly against the door, sat the " young gen- tleman stranger," as Mrs. Giles called him. His hair was smoother than ever. He was complacently looking around on the inmates of the little village church. The girls all knew it was "Charlie Judson," as they used to call him. He had come home on a visit, after a long absence. Sarah Hulton said there was something stylish in the cut of his coat, and the turn of his mustache-which troubled his good old mother very much. "How beautifully he tipped his hat," thought she, " as he met me near the church; such a graceful bow.' Sarah was quite proud-Charles paid so little attention to any of the vil- lage belles. Old Mrs. Judson sat in the pew, watching the minister as intently as if every word he uttered was a jewel which she feared to lose. 5When the second hymn was sung, the congregation rose and faced the singers. How sweetly that beautiful hymn sounded- "Thine earthly Sabbaths, Lord, we love." Charles had a fine musical ear; he had heard very superior professional singers; but there was something about this village choir marvelously sweet and melodious; nor did it need much discrimination to discover that the melody was confined to two singers, standing together at the head of the front seat. "Mother," whispered Charles, treading on Mrs. Judson's toes not very gently, "who are the two young ladies in the   382           OLIE,. gallery, the one with the black and the other with the blue bonnet?" "Hush! hush! Charles," said his mother, shaking her head: "don't whisper in meetin', wait till we get home ;" and the old lady fixed her eyes once more immovably on her open hymn-book. Charles always managed to carry his point some way, so he waited until prayer time, when he leaned forward and whis- pered to Susy Giles, who was just in front of him, and asked her "who were those girls with black and blue bonnets on?" "The one with the black bonnet is the new teacher," said Susy, " and the one with the blue is Mary Martin." Though Anna had been some time in Elmville, the children still called her the new teacher. They called her so at first, and would, probably, should she remain there twenty years. Charles really was only anxious to find out the name of the young girl in blue-her voice and eye had attracted his ad- miration-but he cared not to appear curious about any one young lady in that little village. "Mary Martin," thought he to himself, "I wonder how she came to drop down here. Pity such a voice should waste its sweetness on these dull ears round here. Martin, Martin! there 's a firm of Martin & Heath in the city, wholesale dry good dealers, who knows but she 's a daughter, niece, or some- thing of that sort, of that Frederick H. Martin. She's out here to rusticate, probably." This was the first Sunday Mary Martin had sat with the choir. At Anna's urgent request, she had gone up with her that morning, and the blue bonnet was a present from Mrs. Smith, who said Mary needed a bonnet bad enough, poor thing.   SOMETHNG NEW    IN MARY LEE'S tLIlE. 883 As Mary passed out of the church, she met the quick, earn- est gaze of the young gentleman who had been anxious to learn her name. Her pale cheeks were suffused with crimson as the strange eyes continued to watch her, until she had passed out of the little gate in front of the church. It had once seemed strange to Mary to be called Mary Mar- tin, but she had become accustomed to it. Of all names, Olie seemed the dearest; but that was locked up in her mind with all the happy memories of the past: dear, dear Uncle Frank, he had first uttered it, and then Richie had spoken it so often, and as no one else could. Aunt Rachel would often call her Oletty. Mary felt as if she would like to forget all the past, it made the present appear so dark in contrast. The name of Martin was connected in her mind with all the cruelty and brutality of the old organ-grinder. She would often shudder at the thought of her brief experience in public singing and dancing, and the terrible news which gave so tragical a close to that experience on that well-remembered ferry-boat. Her voice was, if possible, sweeter than ever, since she had practiced so often with Anna, who was really a scientific singer. The next day as Charles was passing the post-office, he met George Marshall, his old friend and playmate in boyhood. George had grown up a sedate, unassuming young man, with whom the peculiar cut of his coat or the shape of a mustache were not deemed essential to his own happiness or respecta- bility. "Well, George," said Charles, " what have you been doing all these long years since we were boys together 8" George modestly replied that he had been living at home   384           OLtE. and doing the best he could for himself, considering the lim- ited opportunities which had been afforded him. And here Charles, rather abruptly, but with an air of indifference, in- quired of George if he knew a young girl in the place named Mary Martin. "Oh, yes," replied George. "Whose daughter is she?" "Her mother is old Sally Martin, the washer-woman, I be- lieve," said George. "At all events, she has always lived with her since they came into the place." "The daughter of a washer-woman!" exclaimed Charles; "why I supposed, when I saw her in church yesterday, and heard her sing, she was some city belle, who had deigned to grace this little town a few weeks for her own amusement." Charles could hardly believe George was in his sober senses. "u A washer-woman's daughter!" He had seen many city laundresses-whose youngest daughter often had privileges and accomplishments of which her mother never dreamed; but this young girl, with fairy form, elastic step; pensive, expressive eyes; rich, plaintive voice, and tiny foot, was very unlike all those rosy-cheeked, buxom-looking city damsels he had seen in similar positions- so he told George-and then very prudently forbore to say any thing more on the subject. He had talked enough already about a washer-woman's daughter. George said he was n't so sure, after all, that she was a washer-woman's daughter-she might be her niece-every body called the old woman Aunt Sally, she might be the girl's aunt.   SOMETHNG NEW    IN MARY LEE'S LIFE. 385 Charles remained at Elmville two months. Old Mrs. Wil- liam Giles began to wonder why he stayed so long, as he was the reputed heir of a very rich uncle-he had educated him and furnished him means to enter into any business he chose. Charles had business talents, was decidedly shrewd; and many who knew him well predicted for him a high position among business men. He was fond of society, and had mingled much in it. He had aspired to the hand of one who was universally admired; he had done his best to win her, and failed. With all the devotion, humility, and sincerity, he could summon in his conceited face, he had made his avowal; to his unutterable astonishment, he was coolly refused. Such, was his unbounded confidence in his good looks and personal charms, that he still believed the lady only wished to coquet with him, and would be very glad, after a little offish- ness, as he called it, to accept the honor of his hand. It would give him much pleasure in any way to pique her pride, or mortify her vanity. His love was not deep enough to admit of any thing like a feeling of friendship for her; re- taliation, if not revenge was uppermost in his mind. To return again and board near her with a beautiful and accom- plished wife, was a cherished plan of his: a wife, if possible, possessed of rarer beauty than the offending fair one. He hoped, that should he return married, the old disappointment would never be suspected by those fashionable acquaintances whose ridicule he feared. His nature was a selfish, thor- oughly selfish one;  in such a nature a wound could not easily be healed. He had aspired to the hand of the lady because her wealth and position were so desirable-her beauty he admired, but he did not love her with his whole heart. 17   386            OLIE. Mr. Jones had the largest store in Elmville-there might be found the largest assortment of dry goods, groceries, crock- eries, and hardware. Mr. Jones had on his sign "'New York store," which meant, of course, a great deal. Mr. Jones had a large share of patronage from the people of Elmville. There, in the morning, might be found a good representation of the families in Elmville. The gentlemen would be standing in groups within, in the corner near the windows, or collected about the door. As the morning wore away many of them would disperse, and the few left would be those who were visitors in the place, or those who had plenty of leisure time. One who promenaded much the little village streets, would soon recognize all the leading characters, and become familiar with most of the faces of the villagers. Poor Mary Lee was sent sometimes, often during the day, to get a little of some necessary article, a few cents' worth. Aunt Sally's stock of ready money was always small, and a few cents' worth of starch, sugar, or salt, would soon be exhausted. This getting so little was a great source of an- noyance to Mary. One very delightful afternoon, just about the time when the store was quite sure to be well-filled with customers or visitors, Aunt Sally sent Mary off to buy her a penny's worth of needles, number seven, sharps. Mary's apparel was no longer conspicuously shabby or an- tiquated. Anna Harwood, by some means, had procured for her a pretty blue dress and mantilla. Mary had made the dress herself, with much taste and skill; as much as she had displayed in childhood in arranging her dolls: and Mrs. Smith had given her a blue bonnet-as she said "the poor   SOMETHNG NEW   IN MARY LEE'S LIFE. 387 thing needed it enough." Blue was a favorite color of Mary's; then Richie always liked it; he used to gather for her all the blue flowers he could find. As Mary came up the street toward the store, Charles Jud- son stood on the steps talking with George Marshall. Mary was easily embarrassed. As they stepped one side to let her pass, she blushed crimson, conscious of the intense gaze of one of the. gentlemen. That attraction is said to be mutual which draws together the positive and negative poles of a magnet. They each at- tract the other; but the heart-feelings are governed by no such law.  Selfishness and generosity have no communings. Their magnetic poles are as remote from each other as the corners of the universe.- But selfishness will admire gen- erosity, just as all vice will pay homage to virtue: and so Charles Judson, proud of his looks, prouder of his wealth, and with a  heart monopolizing all to himself, stood there in the street, though with such a haughty, distant air, that he -seemed like one who stood afar off; and yet, admiring still that poor Mary Lee, with a countenance all radiant with that beauty, which a   heart ever full of love and kindness, and frankness and sincerity, and-generosity, had pictured there. tHow could she love him? how might he love her! Mary passed by, but the beautiful vision was impressed upon Charles' mind. Many days were spent in- revolving in his mind how he might win the hand of this beautiful girl without compromising any of his- pride, even in the little town of Elmville. "Elmville may think me condescend- ing," said he to himself, " but what do I care for Elmville. She will accept my earliest offer, and be proud of her good   388           OLIE. fortune and sudden elevation; though she is such a modest kind-hearted creature, I do not believe it would change her feelings in the least toward the people in this little village, with whom she has lived, and whom they have loved. They will admire me, possibly respect me greatly, if I should marry the washer-woman's daughter! And besides, I will take her back to the city, a beautiful bride; and then that proud co- quette will rue the day she dared say no to my proposition. I would like to sting her in the heart once, and let the wound fester there. JIy wealth, beauty, fortune, and accomplishments are not to be trifled with." And so Charles Judson resolved at the first opportunity to offer himself to Mary Lee. He suddenly and unexpectedly announced to his mother, one day, that he must return to the city; and as it was neces- sary to have some washing done forthwith, he would take his clothes to old Mrs. Martin, and have her do them up for him. Quickly packing them into as small a bundle as possible, he was on his way to the humble abode of the poor washer- woman. Soon he found himself knocking at the door. Mary opened it, and bade him come in. Inquiring for Mrs. Martin, he briefly told her he wished her to do some washing for him that day, as he was obliged to return to the city early the next morning. Mrs. Martin agreeing to do the washing, he told her he would cqll in the evening for his clothes, and turning to Mary. with a smiling look of recognition, he departed hastily, and somewhat excited. "There, Mary, that is the same proud, haughty fellow, who   SOMETHNG NEW     IN MARY LEE'S LIFE. 389 thrust me out of the sidewalk several weeks since, when those collars were so soiled that you had to wash, starch, and iron them over again, and all in a few hours. Don't you recollect how hard you thought it was to have been put to so much trouble. Who is he, Mary?" "Why, that is Charles Judson; he has been staying here -some months, visiting his friends in Elmville." "What friends, I wonder, can such a proud, haughty fel- low have among these plain people?" remarked the old lady. She had no idea of the true object of his visit to her house; but she very appropriately, yet unwittingly remarked, that she hoped he would not be so unkind to all women as he had been to her. The thought that he had so unkindly and impolitely treated the old lady in the street, a few weeks previously, never occurred once to Charles' mind. In the evening he went to Mrs. Martin's, at an early hour, for his clothes. He found Mary and old Mrs. Martin giving to his collars their last polishing finish. Soon engaging in a very familiar conversation with them, greatly to their sur- prise, he talked very freely with them of their past history, of their residence in Elmville, of the beauty of the place, of the kindness of the inhabitants, till topic after topic, which he thought would interest them, had all past by, like quick flying clouds or hurried dreams. But there was one topic yet which he had not touched, though uppermost in his mind. Mary Lee, even there in her numble home, and   at his service as a washing-girl, had in- creased his interest in her unawares. But how should he make the disclosure? where was the chance?   390           OLIE. At length it occurred to him that Mrs. Martin had told Mary she must go to the store that evening, and get sixpence worth of starch, as they must do up some more clothes in the morning. And so, when Charles' clothes were done, he, kindly offered to accompany Mary to the store, as he would be going in that direction on his way to his mother's. Mary very modestly, but with some reluctance, accepted. They had not gone far before Charles Judson -suddenly made a remark which quickly disclosed to Mary Lee's mind the true object of his visit, and that he had been striving to have all interview with her. He told her of his wealth, his family position and social relations in a distant city, and that he had concluded to offer her his hand, though she was living in an humble condition in "this little village of Elmville." That her beauty had won his heart, and he loved her; and whatever the opinions of others might be, he meant to suit himself for once, and marry whom he pleased. The beautiful are not always vain of their beauty, and the humble are not always ashamed of their poverty. -To Mary Lee's mind there seemed to be such an air of lofty condescension in the man, with a kind of conscious assurance that she would certainly accept his hand--there was such a quick, involuntary shuddering of the heart that it would say no, though her poverty had been ten times poorer, and his riches ten times richer. And so poor Mary Lee, of Elmville, refused the proud, rich heir of the metropolis. Mary returned home alone with her starch, and Charles Judson went back to the city with his clean clothes.   CHAPTER XLII. HOME CHAT, UBut how the subject-theme may gang, Let time or chance determine; Perhaps it may turn out a sang, Perhaps turn out a sermon." BuaNS. "OR, dear! I wish there was no such thing as examina- tions, or compositions either," said Ella Harwood, laying her slate and pencil on the table with considerable force. "Ella," said Mrs. Harwdod, good-humoredly, "you have certainly made your expression very forcible. Has any thing new disturbed your equanimity T" XI suppose I was not in a very good humor," said Ella; "but the truth is, things have gone on not very smoothly to- day. All our class failed in their lessons, and I was severely reprimanded  for talking aloud when it was not I, mother; though Miss Spyall said she saw my lips move, and she was almost sure that it was; but, after school, one of the girls. told her that it was somebody else-yet she made no apology. I never did like her, mother; and she certainly is partial; and to-night, just as we were coming out of school, Miss Pyncheon said, that the day after to-morrow, our examinations and com- positions must be handed in."   892           OLIE. "Well, why can't you write as easily as you always do I You wrote one last week in a short time." "Oh, I don't always try very hard; I think of some sub- ject, write about it and then hand it in." "Why don't you do so now?" "Why, I think of one, and that don't suit me; and then of another, until my slate is full of subjects and beginnings." "I suppose you are troubled, Ella, because you fear you will not get the very best subject. Is n't that it?" "Perhaps it is. I do want the best I can find, and so do all the rest of the girls. Miss Pyucheon has promised a prize to the young lady in each department who has the best com- position; and a committee of two ministers, two lawyers, and one physician are to put their wise heads together and say which are the best. The thought of so many spectacles look- ing over them is quite enough to frighten away ideas, if they begfin to come. "When I commence writing, I feel just as I did when I sat for my likeness. The very thought of that expression of the moment always remaining on the plate, took away all the power to keep my face straight. If I tried to look solber, I looked really cross; and if I tried to look pleasant, the smile would only be a broad grin. I knew when I sat there it would look stiff and unnatural." "Was n't there another reason, Ella? Were you not afraid the picture would n't look as well as you did?--Quite as pretty as you wanted it to 2" "Perhaps I was; and I had thought of it so long, I could not bear to have it stiff. I did want it to look well. Anna came in from school to see it, and papa told her to sit sight   HOME CHAT.           393 down, just as she was. Her hair was not at all smooth. She had hers taken; and Mr. Walker said it was the best likeness he had taken." "Why was it better than yours, Ella?" "I don't know; perhaps because she hadn't dressed on purpose, or thought any thing about it. I suppose she had n't thought any thing of getting a picture-expression in her face. That's what you call effect; is n't it, mother?" "Yes, I suppose it is; and you think Anna forgot about the effect she might produce on the plate by getting up an ex- pression. But what made her picture so good?" "Perhaps because it was so natural; it looked just as she does when she is going to speak; you could almost read the thoughts in her eyes." "And why do all so much admire that beautiful painting of Anna's on the mantle i" "Oh! the clouds look like real clouds, sailing in the clear, blue sky; and the waves you can almost imagine are dashing against those rough rocks; and those trees, with their dark shadows, look like these before our door, which, weeks ago, were covered with bright red leaves; and that old mansion, as the sun shines on it, looks just like an old-fashioned ' live house,' as little Willie used to say, which we so often see in the country, embowered in trees. The picture is all like life; I  never get tired looking at it." "You like Anna's picture because it looks like life, and true to nature; and so, when you used, many years ago, to turn the pages of your little picture-book, you were delighted to show me the little cat and dog, because they were so natural; you would say, 'Bow-wow, wow,' as often as youl looked at the 1 7 *   394           OLIE . dog in the picture. And why did you take so much pains with that little doll of yours a You would spend hours comb- ing its hair and dressing it." "Oh, because I called it my child, and I wanted it to look like a real little girl; so I curled its hair, and tried to make it look like mine, and dressed it just as you dress me; and when I was a very little girl, I would put on its little night-gown, and lay it in its cradle, and sing it to sleep. I really believed it would go to sleep; and I was afraid if any one came in they would wake it up. It did seem to me that dolly was alive.: "Why don't you play with it now, Ella 8" "Oh, mother, that is a funny question. A little doll would not seem to me at all like a real child now; I like something else a great deal better." "Do you think you are the same being now, Ella, that you were then?" "Yes, I am the same, and yet quite different." "How do you know you are the same?" "Because I have some of the thoughts I had then. I think of a great many things just as they happened, how people looked and what they said; then I have some of the same feelings too." "What are those feelings, Ella a" "Some of them are good and some are bad. I know when I was a little girl I threw my frock into the blazing fire, a little new red dress, because you would n't let me wear it; and then once when kitty scratched me, I tried to drown her by putting her into the bucket." "Do you have such feelings now, Ella? you were very   1OME CHAT.          395 young then. I shall never forget how pussy looked when I extricated her from her perilous position." "Yes, I suppose I do sometimes, mother. Perhaps to-day I was provoked at Miss Pyncheon and Miss Spyall, at my com- position, and myself too, when my slate came down with such force on the table. But I have good, feelings too; how I loved brother Charles; how sadly I felt and how good I wanted to try to be, when I looked into his coffin; and now whenever I see a coffin or look at a pale, dead face, those old feelings come back again." "What are those feelings, Ella?" "I suppose the first wicked feeling was revenge, and the betterfeeling was affection, and I don't believe that will change!" "Why, Ella ." "Oh, when I was a little girl, I loved to throw my arms about you and tell you every trouble." "Why did you come to me, then?" "I suppose I came for sympathy, and now I like more than ever to cling to you and tell you every sorrow." "Then your affection and desire for sympathy have not ,hanged!" - 4"No, and they never will as long as I live. Mother, I shall love you, and Wvant to tell you every thing; no, mother, sympathy don't change, it only grows." -  "Well, in some things you are the same; how are you different?  You have the same affection, you love still, you are sorry still-if you love the same people and cherish the same feelings-if you have so many of the same thoughts, something else must be the same--what is it " .   396           OLIE. "It must be my mind, mother. My Intellectual Philosophy says the mind is that part which thinks and wills, remembers and reasons: so, if I think the same thoughts, reme-mber the same faces and places, and reason too in the same way I once did, only more and better, my mind must be the same; though I think a great many more thoughts, and I reason more before I act. I used to act a great deal without reasoning." "How did you act when you acted without reason?" "I suppose I acted from impulse, mother." "Do you ever act so now, Ella?" "Oh, yes, a great many times. I did this afternoon, when I threw down my slate." "Then something else has not entirely changed." "I suppose you mean my acting from impulse." "Yes, you have always had an impulsive temperament, and you have it still. "Now can you tell me why Anna's picture, being natural, made you like it?" "Because I have a taste for, or a love of nature." "And why did you like your doll?" "Because it seenmed like life?" "Then something else has not changed, what is it?" "Perhaps you mean my love of nature." "And why do you love nature?" "Because nature is perfect, and the nearer we approach it the more true every thing seems; the more good and beauti- ful, just as God first made the world and man too." "Then with a love of nature, there is a love of the true and beautiful too. But you don't like to play with your doll, now. How. is that?"   HOME CHAT.           397 "I don't now; I must' be different after all; I don't like the same things I used to; I don't admire them so much, while I admire others more." "Do you like natural things as well as ever?" "Yes, and a great deal better; and I can tell what is natural now easier than I once could. But I know better what is real and true than I did then." "Yes, Ella, your taste is improving, and your judgment too; you admire more really beautiful and good things than you once did. When a very little girl, an orange or some candy made you quite happy, and when you were a little older, a walk, or a ride, or a visit, would delight you much." "And since then, mother, I 'd rather read some interesting story, or some well-written composition, or hear something eloquent, and have those love me I love; and nozo I would be quite happy if I could write something beautiful. How I have changed, mother! I want to be happy, just as I used to; but it takes a great deal more to make me so. I like to think, too, but I want more things to think about, more to love and more to know." "Yes, my dear, these souls of ours are constantly expand- ing, and we should be careful not to try to satisfy their long- ings with trivial things. "' We chain the thought, we shroud the soul, And backward turn its glance, When onward should its vision be, And upward its advance.' "There is a world where the ear is always- charmed, the eye rests upon new and purer objects, and the heart may drink forever of the river of Pleasure."   898           o L I E. "Oh! that world is heaven, mother, where brother Charles and dear father are; how much more they know than we. "Mother, can we ever be satisfied here? There is so much that is dark we can not understand; so much sorrow we can not cure; so much wrong we can't make right." "No, my dear. Our Heavenly Father has placed us in this world to learn lessons of discipline and trial, until we go up into that other school where there is 'light without darkness, joy without sorrow, and holiness without sin,' and where we shall learn to solve those great problems which belong to the higher mathematics of Eternity." "Mother, I've had so many thoughts this afternoon, I could almost write a composition now." "What is a compdsition, Ella-a real one?" "It seems to me like a picture of our thoughts on paper, though I never thought of it before." "And what do you like best in a picture?" "To have it natural, I suppose." "Well, then, what is the beauty of a thought-picture?" "To have it natural; but mother, it takes a very skillful painter to make a good picture, even if he has a beautiful one in his head. "Yes; and he makes sometimes a number before they come up to his idea of a fine picture. "And so, mother, I must make a good many thought-pic- tures before I can have a good one; and they must be natural, too. But what would you call natural 8" "Why, a plain, clear copy on paper of just such thoughts as a little girl of your size expresses every day, when talking with her mother."   HOME CHAT.          399 ' There, mother," said Ella; " you thought I was trying to dress up some thoughts, or have some fitted in my head on purpose for an examination-composition." "Yes, my dear; and that would be a poor thought-picture not at all natural, no matter what you call your thoughts; don't think of so many names, or your outline will never be sketched, or your pictures may look like that drawing of yours you finished the other day, when the shadow was all on the light side, and the sun shone where the shadow ought to have been. Take care and not get your thoughts upside down, or those spectacles will surely never see them straight." Ella sat still a long time thinking. If she once had an idea in her busy brain, she would not rest; any plan must be begun now while the impulse of the moment excited her. "What shall I write?" had been a frequent question for days. Now she looked into the blaze of a bright fire on the hearth; she looked thoughtfully, as if expecting something to come out from the flame as it curled slowly up. "Mother," said Ella, " my thoughts are like that fire, they come so still and slow--one comes and attracts my attention, and then Memory seems to blow over it, and it grows lrger, until it is like a little flame, quite bright and beautiful; and other thoughts come, and soar higher and higher, until I can not check them. I happened to look out of the window just now, and saw that old tree-a few weeks ago there were so many leaves on it, and now to-day, I see the wind has come and blown away all but one; and so some little thing comes along, and blows all my thoughts away, all but one, and that is my subject. I guess I 'll have to ask pussy to help me;   400           OLIE. she is looking up at me very wisely, as if she had a good many sage thoughts." "Perhaps she might help you as much as the great Riche- lieu was amused with cats. He always spent the intervals between his writing-duties by playing with his cats." "I suppose he was a great man, mother; I believe he said pens had more pith than swords; but I'm going to send my thoughts away awhile and play with pussy, she is looking so beseechingly at me; perhaps they 'll come back in the morn- ing all ready to sit for their likeness. I hope they 'll be as bright as pussy's eyes."   CHAPTER XLIII. EL LA S FUTURE. "She sits beside the singing streams, Hier spirit in the land ideal; And waking from Elysian dreams Makes all her Eden visions real!" ' MOTHER,?" said Ella, the next morning as she was watering her flowers, " who can be coming into that little office over the way? The blinds are open, the windows washed, and now somebody is putting up books on those shelves.   I am glad there is to be an occupant, it has looked so lonesome over there ever since Doctor Williams died. Perhaps it is an- other doctor, there are so many books; see, they are putting up more shelves too. I am sure I am glad there is some change; I'm tired of seeing those closed shutters; it looks more natural, mother, to have somebody moving about over there. I wonder if it is an old gentleman like Doctor Wil- liams; I hope he has a wife and children who will come and see us just as they used to; but then Mrs. Williams had been ill and had trouble:; that may be the reason why she was so kind to us, and came to see us so often. I begin to think, mother, good people have the most trouble. But it would be very pleasant to have somebody near us to come in and see   402           OLIE. you once in a while; there, see, mother, there are more books yet." "It is almost school-time, Ella; you'll be late if you don't go soon." "Well, good-morning, mother, I 'll leave you to find out who the new neighbor is." When Ella came home from school at noon, she saw in large letters on the opposite door-Dr. Leslie. "Leslie, that is a pretty name," thought she; "I like it better than the old-fashioned name of Williams. I wonder if he is as dig- nified an old gentleman as Dr. Williams was." Day after day passed. The new doctor was very much at home in his office; he was no old gentleman, but a young and skillful physician, who had constant calls. Ella would see the light burning very late in his room at night, and she im- agined he was a close student, and so he was. Nothing of importance had happened at Miss Pyncheon's, only she had kindly given the young ladies a little more time to write their composition, three days of grace they called them. One afternoon Ella and Pussy were sitting in their favorite corner. Ella was by the window, her eyes resting a moment on the petals of a white rose, just opening, then wandering upward to those far-distant and beautiful clouds gilding the west, and then lingering on the wreath of flowers in the car- pet, with that peculiar dreamy expression people are apt to have when their thoughts are far away. "Mother," said she, finally, raising her eyes, "I have got my subject." "What is it, my dear?" "Well, I have thought over a long list, beginning with time   ELLA'S FUTURE.          403 and ending at winter, and my thoughts were constantly roam- ing over the future, so I am going to write about the future." "I am glad you have chosen your subject, Ella; and I hope thefuture will prove that you have made a good selection." Ella wrote a long, long time, until the shades of evening gathered, and the stars came out one by one. "Come, Ella," said her mother, "you will injure your eyes if you write longer, and you will need them in theffuture." After much absorbed thinking and rapid writing, Ella paused with flushed cheek, and eye beaming with the pleasure intellectual excitement creates.      l She had forgotten herself, a fiail, feeble child as she was- the low walls, the narrow couch, the pale mother, the proud school-girls; she forgot the past, she forgot the present, and the glorious future was before her with all its hope, and dreams, and fears, the near and the distant future; her thoughts caught the enthusiasm of the theme, and she was wandering off in-the ideal world, where . "Conquering hope with golden ray Blessed the landscape far away. All the skies were rosy bright, Laughing in triumph at yesternight." Fountains of simple eloquence seemed gushing up from her heart, child poet as she was; the past seemed like a dim and distant speck on the ocean of thought; the bark of im- agination was sailing like a bird over its crested waves, and "Rieh in the present though poor in the past, She yearned for the future vague and vast; And lo I what treasure of glorious things Giant futurity sheds from his wings." .   404           o r E. Mysterious thought, child thought, how high it soareth, how deep it diveth, how much it compasseth, how far-reaching its ken; nature sits to its pencil, and art does its bidding. Fancy, like a bright-winged bird, soared beyond the hopes and dreams of a fleeting future on earth, and plumed itself for a higher flight where it might in the eternal and glorious fu- ture lave its weary wing at that fount celestial, which flows fast by the throne of God. The feet may be limited to a narrow path, the eyes bounded by a lowly horizon, the hands too feeble to do much good; but the orphaned spirit out-passeth the lightning in its flight, rivaleth the proudest and most favored of mortals in that might "That noblest might of mind, The only might, save that of Heaven, That should free-will homage find." Sometimes Ella's mother thought her a Christian-some- times along the chords of her heart came such sweet and thrilling melody, she fondly believed God had touched its strings. Sometimes the incense going up from that young heart's altar seemed to ascend with the flame of true devotion, and to be accepted by the Great High-Priest. The little paper was laid away full of thoughts written in those hurried and unintelligible characters busy and rapid thinkers are apt to use. It was laid sadly away, with the ex- clamation "Oh! I wish I could write just as I think." As Mrs. Harwood watched the young sleeper that night, how her heart yearned over her, and a prayer went up warm   ELLAIS FUTURE.           405 and fervent from a mother's heart that she might be happy and useful, safe from temptation, delivered from evil. At night she would think of most of her children, some- times she longed intensely to see them; in spirit, often she sat by Anna's side in her school-room, and lingered with Clara in Uncle John's lonely home. Poor Ella was like all those who catch some little stray thought, and long to express it. Beautiful images float through the soul even of a child, like beautiful shadows flitting 5ver it, images of the good and true visit the soul by day, and haunt its midnight visions: radiant wings of angels -fan the spirit's brow, and invisible companions are trooping around it. v If some spiritual daguerreotype could catch and fasten these thought-guests that through the soul come thronging; what witching fascination would gather around, and hover in every line of many a now imperfect page, whose expres- sions of thought are no more equal to the author's conception, than the rough marble is a correct type of the artistes long- cherished ideal. Happy yet sad the feeling, that though divine the thought, the expression can never equal it. There are other older, wiser, and more gifted than the child Ella, who covet and win the meed of fame; who look with perfect dissatisfaction upon their best and brightest thoughts, "Thoughts that breathe and words that burn," whose spirits are attuned to the sweetest of melodies; but whose tongue falters only broken strains of eloquence, and the   406           O LIE. finest fervor of whose genius is dulled and deadened ere the slow pen can express it, as the beautiful hues on the butter- fly's wing are soiled and tarnished by the touch of the most delicate hand. Like the fitful strains of an Eolian harp which have never been penned or sung-there wakes from the spirit's chords the sweetest melodies-melodies never sung for human ears; heard only by Him who tunes the stately anthems of the distant stars.   CHAPTER XLIV. MUCH ADO AT MSS PYNCHEONXS. "Thou I find Hast the true tokens of a noble mind, But the world wins thee,"   ClABBE. THERE WaS a great time among the girls at Miss Pyncheon's school, so Ella wrote in a letter to Anna. They were having beautiful dresses made, some of the most elegant silk, and evening dresses of a thinner and lighter material, trimmed with rich lace. Many of the heads were ornamented with wreaths of curl-papers; yet were held as high as if conscious of the bewitching sensation to be made when the ungraceful twirl should be exchanged for drooping ringlets. There was a wonderful demand at-the stores for narrow satin ribbon, gilt-edged paper, beautiful fans, French slippers, etc. Miss Pyncheon, too, was unusually busy, and kept the girls one afternoon a long time after school, talking about something in which she and they were both interested. Miss Spyall had hardly a moment's time to herself; she walked about in a hurried, excited manner, as if the weight of the world was on her shoulders, trying to reinforce Miss Pyncheon's oft repeated suggestions. Finally, she seated herself at the desk to write, but she was   408           OLIE. afflicted with nervous headache; and the girls kept up such a buzzing about her ears, it was extremely difficult for her to collect her thoughllts, it was impossible for her, with her pre- cise way of doing things, to succeed in any systematic per- formance. So she sat with her head resting on her hand, evidently trying to arrange something with great care, by the frequent changes and erasures she made. The girls would get together'at recess, and talk a long time in groups; recess was rather longer than usual one day, and there was a general assembly, as Julie Wallace called it, on the piazza back of the school-room. Lizzy Fanning was afraid her dress would n't be made in time; her favorite dressmaker, the one that always fitted her so beautifully, had just been called home to attend the funeral of her father; it was too bad it had happened just now; she was afraid she would n't be back in time, and she had waited so long on purpose to have her dress made in the latest pat- tern. She had worn her other silks three times now, and she could n't think of wearing them again in public; she did n't believe she'd come at all. Kate Cleaveland had a terrible cold; and as she was really the sweetest singer in school, it was a great pity she was so hoarse; she had eaten two pounds of cough candy already; it was so provoking, and the last time too she had a bad cold, she was sick all day. "Well, never mind, Kate," said Sarah Harding, " you can bundle up, and play the interesting young lady--we can't do without you, any how." "Well," said Jenny Alston, "I have had a new dress made,   MUCH ADO AT MSS PYNCHEON'S.        409 and the waist is so short I don't believe I can wear it: father says I have had so many fitted this season, I ought to make this do." -"Oh, never mind, Jenny," said Sarah Harding, " you know waist-ribbons are fashionable; I suppose they are, for Miss Brown had one on with her new brocade silk the other day; you can put one on, and nobody will notice the defect in your dress." "Well, perhaps I can," said Jenny; " but I do wish, some- times, all stupid dressmakers were in Guinea; then she has made it quite low neck and very short on the shoulders; so my sleeves are up to my ears almost-sloping shoulders are all the decent thing I have, you know." "That is n't half as bad as my loss, Jenny,"' said Lucy How- ard, "I 've lost my elegant bracelet, and it was done so care- lessly-I dares n't say a word about it to mother." "That is too bad," said Mary French, " you have to play so much on the piano; but how did you lose it, Lucy 8" ' Last night I wanted some water in a great hurry; I got out of patience waiting for Bridget, and went to the well my- self; you know we are old-fashioned enough to have a well; after that I went to get some ice-cream with cousin Julie, then we took a long walk, and after we got home, and I came to take off my under-sleeves, I missed my bracelet: I think I must have lost it when I was at the well, I suppose it un- clasped then, though it may be in the street. It was a birth- day present from my father. I am very sorry about it." 'Well, girls," said Fanny Howland, "as you are telling your tribulations, I must tell mine, and you may put it down in the most careless chapter of accidents. What should I do 18   "O           OLIE. yesterday, but walk in after my ride, and sit right down upon my new, beautiful fan, and crush it. I got it to show cousin Mary before I went out, and forgot to put it up. It is entirely ruined. It was brought'froim Paris; and I have grieved so over it, that I don't believe I'll ever want any other. I can't have another one like it. I hope it will be so cool in the room that we won't want any fans," said she; '" though I always like to have one to play with, if I don't use it. It is very convenient, too, to whisper behind it." "You need n't be afraid of its being cool," said Sarah Wil- mot; " the rooms always are as hot as mustard; and we all look, with our red faces, like so many raw Irish girls; and, for my part, if it were as cold as Greenland, I 'd feel warm, I get so excited I don't know where to put my head, there are so many staring, and quizzing, and criticising me." "Poh! I think it's fine fun," said Lizzie Warner, " to have little children all dressed up, full of glee, watching us, close beside some nice, good-looking, plainly-dressed old farmer, who's come to see how his girl is getting on, and hear her sing; then, perhaps, a queer-looking old lady by his side, with her best Sunday gown on-some clean-looking snuff-colored silk, nicely done over for the twentieth time; the old straw bonnet, trimmed up new with some clean, faded green ribbon, and a huge pair of spectacles, half covering the gray eyes shin- ing out beneath them, and looking at peace with all the world. In her hand a very bright-colored silk handkerchief, nicely folded; and on her lap the old green parasol, which wards from the sun in summer, and the rain in winter-almost equal in dimensions to Miss Bremer's family roof. Her head will be bent eagerly forward, and eyes wide open to see 'how   MUCH ADO AT MSS PYNCHEONIS.         4" Rachel looks in her new silk gown,' and how she ' answered them hard questions.' Then some great overgrown girl, dressed in the extreme of the fashion two years ago, will come in rather late, and stumble into the only vacant chair,- close by an elegantly-dressed lady, who really looks as if she thought the air ought to be purified for the especial accommodation of her delicate lungs, and the floor cushioned for her feet, as she sits and looks at us through her glass. I don't care how much they look at us, we can look at them; and I always think, among so many, they'll never notice me particularly, unless I am dressed outlandishy, or in the extreme of the fashion. /'  "I like to be in a crowd sometimes, if I can only sit still and look on. I'd as lief wear my green silk forty times as not, so long as it looks and fits well: and what's the use in being afraid of the examining committee; it's a good while since some of them have had a peep at the multiplication table; if they have ever seen the inside of a Greek lexicon or Latin dictionary; if we should murder the king's English- business-men as they are, what do they care if we girls do make mistakes, or salute their ears with showers of English grammar.  There they sit, with their most affable smiles, listening with apparently rapt attention to our long answers, and racking their brains in search of some very wise question with which to puzzle us; if they can't think of any, they as- sure Miss'Pynch6eo that they are perfectly satisfied with the proficiency we have made, and our entire knowledge of the subject before us. They are always astonished that we have done so well in so short a time. They put their heads togeth- er and make out a report, which might as well be written   "2            OLIIE before as afterward, being equally appropriate to every similar institution in the land. I never was puzzled but once by a question at an examination, and that was at the first in which I officiated; I was asked the plural of sheep, and I said sheeps. I did not know my mistake until I heard the burst of applause that followed. I was very young then, but I never see a sheep without thinking of my blunder. Then in one of the Bible recitations I was asked what was my idea of the locusts' spoken of in the Bible. I always had some idea, if not the right one; so I said, I supposed it was a kind of grasshopper, with six legs. These, and my failure, four years ago, at the black-board, in stating the gunpowder problem, with which I was perfectly familiar until my arrival at the board, when the whole statement vanished from my memory, -and I made an entirely original one. It was given to me, as I was supposed by the teacher to be the best mathematician in the class, and would do credit to my instructions. My failure almost broke my heart at the time, but now I look back upon' it with mingled feelings of amusement and vexation. It was a long time before I could look at an Algebra with any degree of composure, I was so proud of my skill in that department." Lizzie Warner was a great favorite with all the girls. She was rich, intelligent, and beautiful, without manifesting any consciousness of possessing either of these attractions. She was so obliging and kind, her opinions were always respected, and she carried a vast amount of influence with her. She was always good-natured, and made a .good many queer speeches. The girls all knew when she wore an old dress that it was n't because she had no other, for her mother was a very fashionable woman, and always furnished her with an abund-   MUCH  ADO AT MSS PYNCHEON S.       418 ant supply; yet make Lizzy proud she could not, as she thought it foolish to dress so much on such an occasion. What was going to happen at Miss Pyncheon's? There was to be an examination for several days, and soirees, or musical and compositional entertainments, as the girls called them, in the evening. Lizzie Warner mischievously said to Julie Wallace, who was her intimate friend, "There would be a grand exhibition of jewelry, silks, and ringlets during the day, and a brilliant display of gossamer, gems, satin, ribbon, and gilt-edged paper in the evening, while the audience would be relieved by an occasional interspersion of original ideas. The performances would close with a grand puffication of all the exercises, and a congratulation of both teachers and pupils on the unparalleled success of the institution, a lengthy and flattering report of which would be found in all the leading newspapers, signed by an imposing list of names." So Lizzie would talk; the girls said " she made fun of every thing," and her mother" thought she was a very queer girl; she had so many notions in her head, just like her father. She was n't a bit like the rest of the girls." Her sister Nelly, who was a pattern of propriety, and in her mother's estima- tion, "a model of elegance," thought some of Lizzie's inde- pendent manners "highly improper."   Every body loved Lizzie, and if any help was wanted at home or at school, she was always called upon; her taste was so good, and she had so much tact, she could find out how to do every thing. Yet Lizzie was a fine scholar, a dutiful daughter, a. kind sister, and her mother was proud of her beautiful and gifted child, though she did not-understand all her peculiarities, and   "4            OLIE. was often puzzled by the occasional manifestations of her enthusiastic and impulsive temperament. Julie Wallace and Lizzie were almost constantly together; and, in some respects, they were much alike. Lizzie had a keen sense of the ludicrous; and sometimes, when the girls were laughing and talking together, she would manifest it in the liveliest sallies, keenest jests, and wittiest repartee; sometimes at the expense of people not very far off; sometimes beyond her own sense of propriety. Every gather- ing of the girls seemed lonesome without her; her opinion was always consulted in matters of taste. "Lizzie, what are you doing?" said Julie one day. "Copying my composition," said Lizzie. "What! on that sheet of foolscap!" "Yes, why not?" "Why, it would look strangely among the delicate satin sheets. Won't it be decidedly outre?" "I think it looks well," said Lizzie; " it is a small, clear, clean sheet of foolscap; it corresponds with the unpretending character of the inside. If I ever feel foolish in my life, Julie, it is when I stand up before all those people, and read one of my productions, and the gilt-edges and satin-surface only seem like an endeavor to attract attention to the docu- ment." "Yes; but you don't mean to tie it up in that shape." "Certainly-why not? I don't care, if my thoughts are not tied up with satin ribbon; it looks to me like a kind of sign to invite the hearer to a specimen of the article within." "Why, Lizzie, how strange you talk for a city belle." "City belle! I can't bear that phrase," said Lizzie; ,I   MUCH ADO AT MSS PYNCHEON'S.         415 suppose my hair is glossy, and curls in very respectable natural ringlets. My forehead is high and smooth, and my eyes as black as my father's, from whom I inherit, also, a Grecian nose and not inelegant profile; but I 'm not going on to complete the tout ensemble. "They call me a belle, and compared with many, I suppose I am called and thought beautiful by those who, if I had not one idea in my head, or noble feeling in my heart, would still worship at the shrine of the heiress and the beauty. "Julie, look at that little Jane Brown, she has n't a feature critics would call passable, there are no lines of beauty in her face or figure; but to me, she is beautiful. I have seen her face illumined by sunny, radiant thought; every shadow that plays on the soul within, is mirrored in those gray eyes, which are sometimes very expressive. There is a beauty that comes and goes in that dark face and roughly-chiseled features,; the beauty which the spirit will always wear, when the clay is worn out and wasting away. Julie, I wish I was really plain, if only a little while, to see if any body would find any thing in me to love, just for myself. These plain faces sometimes seem to me like Portia's leaden casket; their 'plainness oft- times moves me more than eloquence,' and I often choose them for my friends, and joy is the consequence. "That little Ella Harwood is to me really beautiful, though she has not one faultless feature; all are good; there is a sweet expression beaming in her face; out from those dark lashes, and on her forehead, too. "There is to me a witchery in her expression, ever chang- ing, ever new, I can't help watching her. My conscience has troubled me, Julie, for not showing myself her constant and   "6            OLIE. efficient friend. In such a large school as this, a young stranger like her, timid, and poor too the may be, is often lonely and neglected; but next term if I 'm here, I 'm going to find her out, and know her well. It is one of my greatest failings, you know very well, to mean to do so much, and to do nothing, after all; perhaps it is one of the self-denying characteristics of all city belles. "Oh! Julie, this is a kind of heartless world I live in, after all, every thing is for show and effect. I feel sometimes as if I 'd like to go and stay awhile with my grandmother, and get some of her old-fashioned simplicity." "But you are really not going away Lizzie; you'll be here next term, won't you?" "Yes, I suppose I shall, I don't want to go away to board- ing-school, and papa can't bear to have me; though you and I both see defects here, there are certainly good teachers in the different branches. "I don't particularly fancy Miss Pyncheon, though she is very polite to me, yet I don't come into the immediate circle of her orbit, so that makes little difference. I think, Julie, her system of management is an exception. I am sure there are persons in her position of more liberal ideas. "She is all outside, I wonder if she ever does any thing that is not for effect, she walks, talks, dresses, moves, acts, all. in the Pynchonian style. I feel like shutting myself up and hiding my feelings when I come in contact with her. With all her everlasting talk about our best interests; I believe if she should confess her real feelings, she would say she thought a heart a very old-fashioned and useless thing, after all. If we conformed to her ideas and rules exactly, we'd all   MLUCH ADO AT MSS PYNCHEON'S.         41, act just alike, you could'nt tell us apart only by our eyes and noses, and our size. - "It is with her, forever, Young ladies, you must converse elegantly, move gracefully, write 'beautifully, think correctly, study systematically-above all, she mentally adds, dress fashionably, and pay up your school-bills promptly, and then we 'll all live harmoniously. "She has a face worth studying, Julie." "Yes, she has, and plain enough too--I heard Mary Rowe say the other day, that all very smart people were plain-look- ing; if the converse of the proposition were true, that all homely people were smart, it would be quite consoling to those whose noses are unquestionably too large, and whose eyes are unalterably dull." Julie happened, to have, what she had always considered, a great personal calamity; a very large nose-and, in her esti- mation, no one possessing such a defect could have the least claim to good looks. "Her father, grandfather, and herself," she said, " were all blessed with an unusual share of this appendage, and the first thing she always noticed in a stranger, was his nose, and if she espied one similar to her own, she mentally exclaimed, 'we poor unfortunates!'"' those who knew her well -thought the expressive orbs overlooking it more than compensated for, what she considered, so great a defect, and gave her countenance a title to the term pleasing, many said fascinating; yet the consciousness of its extraordi- nary size prevented her from appreciating the beauty of her really fine complexion and hair; and Juhe was in no danger of being vain. It might, after all, be a benefit to her, to be reminded, as 18'   "8           OLIE. she looked in the truth-telling mirror, of the remark made to her, years ago, by an old blunt Aunt. "Julie, you'd be a pretty good-looking girl if it were not for that nose of yours," and when a child Juhe was foolish enough to wish there was some practical arithmetic by which its size could be dimin- ished. "I don't like that word smart," said Lizzie. "I am quite tired of hearing it: it is a smart speech, a smart sermon, a smart man, and a smart woman; it is ap- plied to every thing desirable, beautiful, or admirable; all things interesting, amusing, edifying, diverting, or entertain- ing. I wonder how such a general use of the word origin- ated; I never heard any one use it as much as Miss Pyn- cheon." "She and Mr. Williams," said Julie, " amuse me when they get talking together on Thursday evening, that is our reception evening.  He uses the word nice, as often as she does smart. I met him the other morning while crossing Market-street. "' A nice day, Miss Julie,' said he, with one of his charac- teristic bows. "' A  very nice day, Mr. Williams,' said I, laughing as I passed on.  He was speaking of you the other day; he said Miss Lizzie was a very nice young lady,' and she had ' such very nice eyes.' However, Mr. Williams is a very nice man; he always is on hand with an umbrella, when I am   caught out in the rain, minus one; and when I could steal away fcom school to attend one of our rehearsals, he was always on hand to see me home if I could find no nice escort." "Every body, I suppose, h/as some idiosyncrasy, and people may talk about us just as we  do about then," said Lizzy;   MUCH ADO AT MSS PYNCHEON S.         419 4" mother teases me about calling every thing funny; it is my invariable comment on the whole chapter of comicalities, whether great or small." "Botheration is my word," said Julie; "every thing fa- tiguing, annoying, perplexing, dispiriting, or provoking, is all a botheration. I am quite sure Miss Pyncheon would say it was not at all classic, or pure Anglo-Saxon either, but I like it." "What a funny woman she is; she always hears our History class herself; it is about the only recitation she does hear; probably she thinks she excels in that department. I believe these ladies at the head of boarding-schools, always have a history class. "I used frequently to ask her some questions connected with the subject of the Philosophy lesson. I would often get puzzled, and wanted some explanation of some remarkable natural phenomenon. "She always tried to enlighten my ignorance by saying that it was owing to the ' energy of vital action.' She gave me that answer so often, I began to think she gave it to me either to check my questions, or to convince me of her su- perior wisdom; only I think it inferior wisdom on that sub- ject. I have heard it so often it is quite a by-word with 'me. Oh! it's all owing to the energy of vital action. But Kate says I'm growing sarcastic, and I don't like to be. I never could really love or make a friend of a very sarcastic person  but when one, by every word and look, seems to make great pretension to wisdom and greatness, it -is very natural for us to contest every inch of praise we give them, even though they merit it, and to criticise them closely. But I won't say any   420           O L I E. more about Miss Pyncheon; I don't know as I do the woman justice." "As to using words," said Lizzie, "I say smart myself. I wish somebody would find one that would take its place; I can't, and so I use it, though I dislike it, just as I tolerate a great many things of more importance which are unpleasant to my eyes and discordant to my ears, and often my judg- ment and conscience disapprove. I don't believe, as you were saying a little while ago, that all smart people are plain, though I know many of our best authoresses are said to be exceedingly homely; yet often, there is some charm about their manners, which makes them very agreeable. God has so distributed different talents, that few can boast of being favorites of nature and fortune, intellectually and physic- ally. "There are few on whose faces linger beauty's spell, in whose souls dwell lofty thoughts, in whose hearts burn af- fection's glow, and whose purses claim much of the shining ore." "There, Lizzie, you have described yourself exactly," said Julie; " you are an exception to your own theory." "No, Julie, I can not claim all these gifts, and one thing is wanting, of more value than any or all I have mentioned. I do not use them right; I fear I have neither the heart to prompt, or the principle to carry out, any plan to make them of any real purpose to myself or others. But how is it, Julie, that two such lively girls as you and I get on such sober subjects. For my part I I know the right, and yet the wrong I do ;' here I have been making a regular speechifi- cation about looks, feelings, etc. Monsieur Ellong would call it a rbodomontade, and if Miss Pyncheon had only heard me,   MUCH ADO AT MSS PYNCOHEON'S.        421 she would surely confer upon me the honor of writing the valedictory, or at least I might be permitted to address the friends and patrons of the institution on the advantage of the theory and practice of the science of humbug.  Anyhow, Julie, you have had a peep into Lizzie Warner's heart, a kind of commodity she does not exhibit on all occasions, to her dis- credit be it spoken, she, in common with all her sisters brought up just as she has been, is a follower in the train of fashion, led by Madam Etiquette, whose rules she obeys, though some of her exactions she despises, whose motto is ever ' Naught is every thing, and every thing is naught.' "Now don't laugh at me, Julie, but give me credit for being sincere, if I do seem heartless. I've never had any pressing occasion for doing much for real self-denial; I only read about it in story-books, where the mother dies, the family are left very destitute, and young ladies of precisely my age and abilities, take the whole charge of the household, clothe, school, and educate half a dozen children, and out of pure de- votion to the family interest, refuse to marry men they have long dearly loved. But I can say nothing of wrongs, when I know my example encourages them; some words I read last night, have been haunting me all day; and perhaps have in- creased my thoughtful mood-they are these:- 'Oh, sister mine, who wouldst reform mankind, Purging the dross, and leaving all refined; Of thee I ask, What hast thou done of that thou hast to do? Art silent? Then I say, Until thy deeds are many, let thy words be few.'   422           OLIE. All the self-denial I know of is being obliged to stop talking with you when I once begin." "Lizzie, what is your composition subject?" said Julie. "I have chosen rather an airy theme," said Lizzie, "and written a few cool reflections in rhyme, it is a very extensive subject too, and one whose power is universallyfelt, particu- larly just back of our desks on a very cold day." "Now, Lizzie, you are quizzing me, don't make me begin and guess the whole list, commencing at time and ending with charity." "I have written a few thoughts about the wind," said Lizzie. "I happened to think of it, as my vail blew off the other day, and I had to march all the way down street in pursuit of it, while a gentleman on the opposite side was going on a similar expedition after his hat, which was traveling the same di- rection. "Father laughs at my subject, and wonders if I'll get up a breeze on that; such a stirring theme might inspire some fights of fancy, bursts of eloquence, and gushes of feeling, etc. Father is not very talkative, but he will have a little fun at my expense sometimes. Seriously, Julie, I know it is inferior to what I ought to write, and the heads of those tall commit- tee gentlemen, I call them, will nod most indifferently over it. They look like so many poplar trees; I  do not think that my composition will stir up much of their enthusiasm, my thoughts were so blown about in all directions; I did n't feel like writing, and I am very much dissatisfied with it." Examination came. Lizzie Warner had on her green silk; it fitted well and was certainly becoming; the girls said Lizzie looked well in any thing. There was really a fine display of   MUCH ADO AT MSS?YN CHEO NS.        423 bright eyes, rosy cheeks, tasteful dresses, and fairy-like forms, as they were all gathered in the school-room, previous to the reading of the compositions. Who can look coldly and indifferently on so many youthful faces, where no shadow of- sorrow lingers, and whose eyes are radiant with hopes of the glowing, yet uncertain future?" There were two in one corner seated together, on whom the eye of the careful observer might love to rest, the one was dressed in deep mourning, the other attired in simple white. One was the gentle Mary Sherwood, the other her young friend Ella. Neither wore any ornaments, but on the fair brow and clear eye of each, shone the radiance of a meek and -quiet spirit; that pearl of priceless value, the "gem of purest ray serene." Ella looked like a little pale star of evening, a faithful at- tendant to its favorite planet, happy in its light. In most of the exercises of the examination, Mary was only a spectator; she was not a regular pupil, only having a few recitations, enjoying all the privileges of what are called parlor boarders. Now she was an interested listener, and a close observer of each competitor of the prize. Neither teachers or pupils knew who were to be the fortu- nate ones, and as there were no names signed to the several articles, the committee were ignorant of the authors of the best compositions; thus was all favoritism carefully avoided. Some of the parents thought it "wrong to make emulation the main-spring of activity, as those who most frequently con- tend for scholastic prizes are apt to acquire a dissembled pride and obtrusive vanity, and though it sometimes promotes the acquirement of knowledge, it is in general injurious to the   424            OL1E. development of the mind, by arresting the free expansion of the intellect, and favoring efforts of labor and memory, and by encouraging selfishness, stifle those dispositions which favor the growth of real talent." The committee had, according to the request of the principal, who always awarded prizes at the close of her term, given the compositions critical and impar- tial examination. The lawyer had summed up the several excellences, and given his cautious opinion; the clergyman, after considerable reflection, came to a conclusion; and the doctor, entering into the merits of the several articles, noticing the healthful tone of moral sentiment, and the indications of originality in style, finally gave in his verdict with the others. The doctor was requested to make out a report for the committee, and present it to the officers, patrons, and friends of the institution. It is no very easy matter, among such quantities of ideas as may be found in a hundred school-girls' compositions, to make a just and impartial selection. It is a tiresome duty or privilege, as the committee may deem it; and in the difficulties attending it, not unlike trying to select the very articles one wants at a store, where the large and splendid display of dry goods bewilders your fancy and puzzles your judgment. The large room was crowded; one of the girls said "all the world was there, and a great many besides ;" there was a perfect sea of faces; some came out of real interest in the scholars; some to be entertained or amused; a few out of compliment to Miss Pyncheon; and some, to see how the girls would tremble as they read their compositions, and how gracefully or awkwardly they would receive the prizes.   MUCH ADO AlT MSS PYNCHEON S.         425 The satin-paper rustled, and the blue, pink, and white rib- bon contrasted prettily with the fair hands that held it. After many had been read, and well-read too, Lizzie Warner was called upon to read her's. She was self-possessed, though slightly embarrassed, as she repeated her theme, and opened the page of her foolscap sheets, which had, at least, one ad- vantage, they did not require turning over as often as the others. She paused a moment as she commenced, in a kind of desperate mood, as if she was about to attempt a disagree- able but unavoidable task. Then, as she read in a low, clear voice, the sweet musical tones came like a breath of balmy air on the ear, all listened, as if to the music of the murmur- ing wind: C" ooling across their fevered brow, The gently-breathing night winds flow; And moan among the thronging leaves, As if some wandering spirit grieves- Grieves for the gladsome beams of day, Longs for the morning's blissful ray, And raises memories of the past, Those airy hopes that would not last-- Brings to the soul a genial balm, All dark unquiet thoughts to calm." It was all poetry, pure poetry, upwelling from a heart full of kind feeling, and read as one who writes can read --- with a prelude soft and slow, All hesitating, weak, and low." Her voice grew a little firmer, as if ( She'd hardly keep from flowing The song with which her heart was glowing."   126            OLIE. As mild and sweet as the tones of an Eolian harp, or a mother's lullaby over the cradle of a sleeping child, were some of her strains; others, like the mountain wind, career- ing over the billows, or joining in the mad tempest's desola- tion, and blending with the fitful tones of the wild water- wraith. "As by her ardor borne along, She launched out on the tide of song; Echo in every heart around Awaking with the cheering sound, Till once again another change Came i' the course of her song's wild range; And then the changes came so fast, Each blending swiftly with the last, That to describe were trial vain, Each variation of the strain." As Lizzie read, her pathetic melody swept over the chords of the heart, waiting mournful music there. Eloquence is in itself a breeze playing at will with the invisible chords of the spirit. Lizzie's last notes were heard by all, as to the breeze she sung, "Melodious wind! no human art Can drop such balm upon the heart; Nor through the throbbing pulses thrill The efforts of man's boasted skill, As thrills thy song." Lizzie had finished, and-she glided back to her place by Julie. Many more essays were read; some serious, and others playful. There was one who had been trying to think that by some effort, natural or supernatural, she could gain courage to read before so many ; and now she had just come to the conclusion   MUCH ADO AT MSS PYNCHEON S.        427 that her composition was hot fit to read, when she found. herself almost unconsciously standing before that vast crowd of people. Her hour had come, and all were waiting to hear what the little pale, blushing girl would read; what her thoughts would be. "Raise your voice, Miss Harwood," said Miss Pyncheon, in her slow, measured tones; " we can not hear you in this part of the room."       ; Hearing -her name so distinctly pronounced, was not calcu- lated to give Ella any additional confidence, yet she looked forward, prompted by some irresistible impulse, two eyes were looking earnestly, fondly, cheeringly upon her, they seemed to say, "Try Ella," and the thought "I will, for mother's sake," poor pale care-worn mother gave to Ella's voice unwonted strength and spirit. It was always sweet and low, but now it was quite loud and strong. Many probably thought the magic of Miss Pyncheon's commanding tones had inspired the timid reader with sudden confidence; but it was only the might, the talisman of a mother's look, a mother's beaming smile, and a mother's ap- proving presence. Ella thought only of her, and she read as naturally as when sitting by that mother's side in their lonely home. She closed her composition with a beautiful and eloquent allusion to that great future where immortal honors would be won. She had so written, and so read her dreams of Heaven, that one hearing her, for a moment, might imagine she had seen the land she was describing, breathed the odor of its flowers, heard the music of its golden harps-and tears came to eyes unused to weep, such tears as childhood weeps,   428           OLIE. ere the world's cold philosophy and heartlessness have ex- hausted the fresh fountains of feeling, and withered the little flowers of sympathy springing up in the garden of the heart. Who is she? who is she? passed in suppressed whispers from lip to lip, as she stole back to her corner, where, with an affectionate smile, Mary Sherwood greeted her. "You have done well, Ella," said she, as Ella laid her head on her lap and burst into tears, overcome by the unnatural excitement through which she had passed, and the great effort she had made. There are many kindred ,throbbings in the great common heart. One burst of childish eloquence can thrill the " elec- tric sympathetic chain" wherewith all hearts are universally linked; "one touch of nature makes the whole world kin," and summons the answering smile to every lip, the Heaven- given tear in every eye-the proud may soon repress it, but such moments will come to all; rare are they, and "their power, though brief, is boundless ;" they are better moments. They are little oases, where the proud and the lowly as they pause in life's pilgrimage, its dusty highway, may rest together; drink of the fountains of sympathy as they pass "on with the innumerable caravan to that mysterious realm where each shall take his chamber in the silent halls of death," and look through its gathering shadows to one final home. mWhile the traces of tears lingered on Ella's cheeks, as the drops rest on the rosebud when the shower has passed away, and the sun breaks forth; she was summoned from her retreat by Miss Pyncheon, and this time as she came timidly forward, every eye rested upon her.   MUCH ADO AT, MSS PYNCHEON7IS.      429 She had richly deserved, and fairly won the golden meed; hw composition was far superior to any, or all in the classes of which she was a member; and by her side was the beau- tiful heiress who had won the prize in her department. The one came from  a solitary home, the comfort and treasure of a lonely widowed mother; the other was a favored child of fortune, the idol of society--yet one, young as she was, had equaled, in beauty and originality, the more mature and highly finished production of the other. The younger and frailer had been treading a lowlier and more thorny earthly path-but they stand a moment side by side. "May you," said Doctor Leslie, as he, at Miss Pyncheon's request, presented to each the prize; "when the pages of human destiny are at last unfolded, and the book of life opened, stand together in the presence of the great assembly, and receive, from the Judge Supreme, crowns of unfading glory, and palms of everlasting victory, promised to those faithful servants who, using the talents given them, are wel- comed to immortal honors." So earnestly prayed a fond mother, as she gazed on her child who had felt so keenly adversity's shaft, and bowed her head meekly beneath sorrow's heavy cloud. This little moment was to Ella-a sunny spot, where sorrow and sighing were forgotten, hope had gleamed from the future, and a mother's warm smile rested upon her heart. All save one of that mother's gems brightened other homes; but how rich the treasure left her. That "bird with the immortal wing" nestled closely in her heart, and she was guiding it in its upward flights.   430           OLIE. There are hearts that seem to, have every thing to crush them, to keep them down, and make them beat slowly, faintly, and wearily. Day after day comes alike-all struggling, all labor, all toil-without hope of rest or change. Suddenly some unlooked-for event-some few words kindly spoken, meed of praise openly and cordially given, comes like dew and sunshine to the drooping spirit. Freshy plumed, it soars, and dreams, and struggles on, nobly, courageously, hopefully, till the life-march is ended; fired and fevered-haunted no longer by unrest, the weary is at rest on the banks of the river of the water of life- Fast by the throne of God there flows A stream that healeth mortal woes; Life's storms all weathered-tossed no more, Moored is their bark on that blest shore.   CHAPTER XLV. SCHOOL DAYS MOST OVER. "She came-she is gone; we have met- And meet, perhaps, never again." CowP r THE ladies in Elmville were all very anxious to have the little ones attend school. Anna had so many older ones, she really could think of no way to gratify them. There were about a dozen little ones of a very interesting age, but just the age when very rigid discipline is irksome; and it seemed unreasonable to require perfect order and quiet of those whose hands, feet, and tongues were rarely still at home. One night after school, Anna stepped into Mary Lee's. Aunt Sally's old grandmother had died very suddenly; noth- ing new seemed the matter; she was very old and feeble, and the worn-out frame had given way. Aunt Sally and Mary were now alone, and Mary's duties were lighter. A bright idea came into Anna's head one day as she seated herself in the only comfortable chair Sally Martin's house af- forded, which Mary offered her. "Why could n't Mary take charge of those little girls part of the time?"   432           OLIE. She was kind, patient, and competent, and very fond of little folks. Her time would not now, probably, all be needed at home. Anna sat a few minutes, and then left, saying she had a walk to take, and possibly, if she had time, she would step in on her return. She called on some of the ladies who wanted to send their youngest to school, and found all pleased with the idea. The scholars were to be all together the last hour every day, part of which was to be devoted to singing. Monday morning she would have the care of all herself. She stepped in at Mrs. Smith's. Mrs. Smith was delighted with the idea, and said a she might have the little room next to the school-room for the children, if she 'd only take Lizzie. Lizzie had teased so hard to go to school; then she could sing a little, too; and she was very anxious to have her learn to sing--that the children would all like." Anna thought the little room was just the thing; it suited her exactly. There was a door in the school-room which opened right into it; and the children could come in and sing so easily. Anna was soon sitting once more in Aunt Sally's best chair, and making her proposition to Mary; asking, of course, Aunt Sally's consent and opinion. It was finally concluded that Mary should commence the next day. Anna proposed to have her stay home and help Monday morning; and, gradually, all of Aunt Sally's objec- tions were removed. As for Mary, she had none to make, she was so happy to be near her dear Miss Anna all day; and then it was so pleasant to be able to earn something for her- self.   SCHOOL DAYS MOST OVEB.         433 The next day Mary was installed in her new position, and a little band of fourteen around her. She recited out of school to Anna, and was making rapid progress in her studies. She spent many of her evenings with Anna, and many a pleasant talk they had. She was daily, by assuming even this little responsibility, acquiring confi- dence in her own abilities. The children all loved her, and Mrs. Smith said it sounded very sweetly to hear their little voices singing every day. Lizzie would have her bonnet on almost as soon as she got out of bed, teasing to go to school. Anna wrote home that the Harwood Seminary had two de- partments already. The people began to think there ought to be a building on purpose for a school ; the ladies talked it over at the sewing- society, and, as Mrs. Giles said, they kept at their husbands until they got them stirred up, and finally a good location was selected, and a number of gentlemen agreed to put up a suitable building. Two or three of the ladies came to see Anna about it. For some reason she did not seem anxious to have them build, or to promise to take the building a year if it was put up. Yet she advised them to build, promising if she should leave before the end of a year, she would procure a good teacher in her place; she did not know, she might be called home; her mother's health was delicate, etc. "But we can't do without you, Miss Harwood," said Mr. Harding, " we can't think of it, you surely will come back again if you do visit home, won't you?" Anna thought it not best to promise any return, though she loved all the people very much. t n   434           OLI . The truth was, she had half promised to occupy another house, and she could n't think of living in two. She had been answering some of Mr. Wilder's letters, he had used all his native logic and rhetoric to induce her to take one private pupil, and not spend her time on so many. She told him over and over, that it was her duty to teach, that she was fitted for it, and she could certainly be very use. ful in that way, and she believed it was the place for which Providence had designed her. She made another objection too-the good she wanted to do her younger sister. She meant to clothe and educate her, but Providence had recently removed that obstacle. Her father's debtor, from St. Louis, had sent on half of the sum remaining due, which was amply sufficient to supply Ella's present wants. The lawyer had by some special pleading, in which he ex- celled, particularly in his last letter, which was a summing up of arguments on his side, so much interested her, that she be- gan to feel anxious to take the new private pupil. Besides, Mr. Wilder had just formed a partnership with an eminent lawyer, and there happened to be a little house near the office-a pretty little cottage-which he thought some- body ought to live in, and he was sure nobody could preside there as well as Anna; and so to please him, she had prom- ised to go and live in it some time. So it seemed not best for the people of Elmville to build a house for her. She had no idea of leaving just yet; she meant to finish the quarter which she had commenced, and do all she could while she remained with them. Ellen Giles was improving rapidly, and becoming constantly   SCHOOL 6AYSS MOST OVER.         485 more attached to her dear sister Anna, as she still called her. Lottie Harding was really a different girl, just as she used to be, only a great deal better, as her father said. She really was a sensible girl after all, now the kinks were all out of her head. Little Emma Phelps was getting along finely, she wanted to be with her dear Miss Anna constantly. Her fa- ther too, took much interest in the teacher, and had even asked her to come and live with him and be Emma's mother; to which proposition she might have said yes, if it had not been for certain legal epistles that were more persuasive, that went right to her heart. Mr. Phelps was a little disappointed, for he had begun to think with Emma, that there was nobody like dear Miss Anna. Mrs. Giles said one day, in the course of some remarks on matters and things in general, that Mr. Phelps's wife would have every thing she wanted, a fine house and servants, and nothing-to do, and one of the best of husbands beside. Anna said nothing, but her thoughts were all clustering around a little white cottage not very far off. Old Dr. James was dead, Mrs. William  Giles was as com- municative as ever. One third of Anna's quarter had passed, when Aunt Sally was taken very ill. She had been ailing some time, as Mrs. Giles said, and nothing seemed to do her any good. Mary was obliged to be at home, and the new doctor sent for, and as he entered the room, and sat down by the sick bed, he saw, to his surprise, his bundle carrier, whom Aunt Sally called Mary, it was the same face he had seen before somewhere, long ago. Mary Lee still went by the name  of Mary Martin with many   436           O LIE. of the people at Elnville; the family at Judson's always called her so. Aunt Sally was very sick, and sick a long time. Mary was very attentive and kind; she was an excellent nurse. The medicine was always given just when the doctor ordered it, and the diet of the invalid limited to just the articles he mentioned, and prepared in the way he directed. One day as he sat by the table waiting for Mary to get him some paper to write a prescription, he happened to open a little red-covered book on. the table, which was Mary's Milton; and saw, as he turned the page carelessly over, Herbert Lee written in a free manly hand on the blank leaf. "That is a book that belonged to Mary's father, sir," said Aunt Sally, in her abrupt way; she seemed a little better just then. "Herbert Lee, Herbert Lee," thought he, " and this is Mary Lee ;" and as she handed him the paper he looked once more at her face, and passed his hands over his eyes as if to recall something almost forgotten. The doctor walked very slowly home, as people are apt to when they are absorbed in thought. Aunt Sally fell into a quiet sleep, and Mary took up her Telemaque to read a little. Mary was disappointed in not being able to go on with her school duties, and so was Anna. Anna had thought if Mary succeeded in teaching these little ones well, by the time she left Elmville, she could soon take more and larger girls, and in time support herself by a school of her own. This was the reason, she had been so anxious to have her take the class. In the kindness of her benevolent heart this was the idea she had conceived for Mary's future good.   SCHOOL DAYS MOST OVER.          43t There was little probability now of Mary's being at liberty soon to resume her duties, and thus Providence seemed to have thwarted her plan. Was it not mysterious? We shall see whether this was one of the all things working for Mary's ultimate good. While Anna was regretting the unfortunate circumstances which kept Mary Lee from school, and wishing she could think of some other plan for her benefit, she received a good long letter from Ella, telling her all about the close of school, examination, etc. She found it on her table one afternoon, on her return from a call at Aunt Sally's, who seemed to be getting no better. It was all the comfort Mary had, to re- ceive a call occasionally from her kind friend. There was little change in Mary's life; for weeks she was a patient watcher by the bedside of a fretful invalid. Jft   CHAPTER XLVI. J I I X S BUNDLE. "Give strength, give thought, give deeds, give pelf, Give love, give tears, and give thyself; Give, give, be always giving; Who gives not is not living. The more we give The more we live." THERE were sad partings at Miss Pyncheon's school. Many of the boarders were going to leave, expecting never to re- turn. Some had completed their scholastic course, and were going back to their homes at the sunny South. Juhe said it seemed like the breaking up of a family to have them go. Every where you went, you could see trunks, hat boxes and umbrellas, awaiting the departure of their respective owners. In a week after the close of school, all had left, all, save Julie and Mary Sherwood. Mary Sherwood was going to spend some time, perhaps all the vacation, with her aunt in Phila- delphia, and she had finally persuaded Miss Harwood to let Ella accompany her. Mary and her sister Alice had often made long visits there. Her aunt was very wealthy, and had no children. She and Mary's uncle were both very fond of young people's society, and in one of her last letters to Mary she had written, "' come and make us a long visit, and bring that little Ella you write   JIM'S ' BUNDL E.         439 so much about. It would seem lonely without Alice, and we will do all we can to make it pleasant for the young stranger." Mary was delighted with the idea, and Ella too. She had often wanted to go to Philadelphia, and then she would be happy any where with her dear Miss Sherwood. At first, she thought her mother would be so lonely she ought not to go, but her .mother thought it would be an ad- vantage to her to visit with Miss Sherwood; then she would have the pleasure of hearing from -her often, and in a few weeks of welcoming her back. They were quite busy for two or three days getting her things ready. One day as Ella came out of a store, where she had been buying some sewing-silk, she met Lizzie Warner. "How do you do, Ella?" said she, kindly holding out her hand; ".where do you live?" "In that low brick-house on the other side of the street- number twenty," said Ella. "Ah! I   thought you lived up here somewhere," said Lizzie, and was going on to say more, when her mother (who was just stepping into her carriage) called her a little impa- tiently. "Good morning, Ella," said she, hurriedly, getting into the carriage. "My   dear," said Mrs. Warner, "don't you know we will be late for our call at Mrs. Sydney's? I wish you would n't stop to speak with every body you meet." "It don't make any difference, mother; I am  almost sure she is out. I think I saw her carriage before one of the stores down street, some time ago." "Very possibly she is," said Mrs. Warner; "I  thought I saw-her establishment out, too; but I would prefer calling   "O           OLIE before she has time to get home; we can leave our cards, and I don't care about stopping this morning, Mrs. Sydney is always so dull; and then, you know, the call will be made. I don't want so much of this calling business on my hands." "Mother, you know father was quite anxious to have us see Mrs. Sydney. Mr. Sydney was an early friend of his." "I suppose he was, Lizzie, but the attention will be the same; and, if I am not very much mistaken, Mrs. Sydney is not a very stylish woman; if your father wants to be very polite, he may go himself, and make one of his real old- fashioned Yankee calls, two hours long," said Mrs. Warner. "Well, mother," said Lizzie, "H will go with him, and take my knitting-work, I guess; I would enjoy one of these Yankee calls occasionally, very much; I think this dressing- up, and leaving cards at a dozen houses, when you know people are out, is a perfect bore. I have had hardly one morning to myself since school was out." "My dear, we must conform to the customs of the best society, so long as we move in it," said Mrs. Warner, as they stood on Mrs. Sydney's steps. This was Mrs. Warner's strongest argument, and it was very often used. The calling was over soon, and Lizzy seated in her own room, arranging some of her papers. Soon she came to her foolscap document (as she called it); and as she laid it away, she thought of the youthful Ella. "How I do love that gill," thought she; "I wanted to throw my arms around her that night, when school was out; but mother would have called that very sentimental, I sup- pose. How strange she should be in school so long, and I   JIM'S BUNDLE .         441 not notice her any; but then we are not in the same classes and rarely in the same room together. I saw her often only a few days before the examination; then, I heard one of the girls say she was poor, and lived with a widowed mother. I had very strange thoughts when we stood together that night What Doctor Leshe said about that immortal crown has rung in my ears ever since. What reward can I expect? I am sure I am doing nothing for any body; I am going to see how much good I can do this vacation, and correct one of my propensities, that of putting off every thing, by doing something now. "But what can I do a The most interesting person now, in my mind, is Ella; but she is refined and sensitive, it might wound her feelings to receive any thing; and I dread, of all things, to have a fuss made, to get up a sensation, and have people thanking me. How much I might have done for her comfort, that costs me nothing, when I was in school. She dresses quite plainly; can't I make her some present; a little collection of wearables, and get them to her without her knowing where they come from? That just suits my fancy, exactly." After dinner, Lizzy went down street, and bought a pair of gloves, half a dozen handkerchiefs, a neck ribbon, a very pretty dress pattern, and a beautiful fan, which happened to take her fancy. There was no half-way work about Lizzy; she wanted to make Ella a present, and to her the gifts seemed of trifling value, she was so accustomed to spending money lavishy; then she thought, too, she might. not find it as easy to send a second time without being suspected. 19- .   "2            OLIE. She came home, did up the package to suit her fancy, add- ing some little gifts from her own wardrobe, and inclosing a brief note, with these few words, "For Ella, with the hope that her ifuture' may be as bright as her dreams of it." Lizzie saw in the street a little boy who frequently did er- rands for her when she had any secret plan of her own. She called him in, and said, "Jim, you take this bundle- to number twenty, Green-street; you know where that is, don't you a?" "Oh, yes, Missey Lizzie; me know very well; me go by there ebery day." "Well, Jim, take the bundle, and leave it for Miss Ella Harwood; and mind, don't you say where it comes from. Will you remember, Jim?" "Laws, Missey Lizzie, Jim neber forget what Missey Lizzie say." "Go out very still, Jim; and here's a shilling for you," said Lizzie, smiling, as his black eyes shone with his peculiar droll expression of pleasure. It so happened that Jim f6und Ella at the door; she was just going out. "You Missey Ella?" said he. "Yes, I am Miss Ella." "Well, here be bundle for you; Missey Lizzie say Jim must not tell where it come from." "Missey Lizzie who?" said Ella, smiling. "Oh! me no tell," said Jim, as he walked off. Ella opened the package, and found the note ; she had a little clew to the giver. Her name was Lizzie. She evidently knew about the composition, from her allusion to it; and the hand- writing looked a little familiar.        . .   JIM's  BUNDLE.         443 "What is this?" said Mrs. Harwood, as she picked up a part of the newspaper in which the package had been wrapped. In'the corner of it was a little writing; all the name was torn off, all but three letters-ner. "Oh!" said Ella, looking very happy; " it. is Lizzie War- ner; I know it is, another; it is just like her to be secret in what she does. If Jim had n't made such a blunder, I never should have known where the bundle came from.   Now, mother, I mean to write a little note, and send her." "t would be perfectly proper," said Mrs. Harwood, " for- you to make some acknowledgment of the gift, as you know who sent it." Ella had some talent at writing off-hand; and, on the spur of the moment, she wrote a very pretty little tribute of grati- tude and affection in rhyme, touchingly alluding to the kind feelings that had prompted the gift; and writing on it, "For 'Missey Lizzie,' with the hope that kind wishes of grateful hearts may be borne to her on the wings of the passing wind." There were several verses of simple poetry, and they closed with these two lines:- JNow since I 've guessed the giver's name, Some nook within her heart I 'd claim. The note was quickly dispatched, and this answer returned before night. It sounded just like Lizzie:- "MY DEAREST ELLA: "I have no harp of poesy, or such strains as thine would surely wake an echo. There is one still vibrating on the chords -of my heart, but the tuneful choir will not- give it expression; but I know my young friend too well to doubt   "4           OLIE. the reception of this sincere acknowledgment of heartfelt pleasure in being the very unworthy recipient of so truly beautiful a tribute to a character we would all love and emulate to become our own; but, oh! how far short of what you have, with such touching eloquence portrayed, do I feel my conduct fills. I fear my love of the beautiful is too much in the ideal, and my principles of imparting happiness all theory, of which I feel the more convinced when I reflect upon vour situation as a stranger in a large school, and your neglect from me, for which I can in no way excuse myself. When I first saw you I felt there was a depth of soul and warmth of heart in your countenance that is seldom found, and I re- solved on impulse to be your friend; but see how faintly acted upon are my resolves. I wished you might be happy, when I should have t:ied to make you so. The kind wishes breathed for me shall ever be regarded and oft reverted to as a kind of blessing. "May 'angels' indeed watch over and lead me in a path of practical goodness. I feel they will ever be near my spiritu- ally-minded young friend; to whom, in my heart, there will ever be a cherished ' nook' awarded, to which fond memory in after years will oft in love revert. "Your true friend and admirer, "LIZZIE D. WARNER." Lizzie little knew how very acceptable the gifts were just then to Ella, whose limited wardrobe was hardly suitable fox her expected visit, nor could- she feel how very gratifying was her kind note, to one who had received few such tributes of affection, all the dearer because so rare.   JIM'S BUNDLE.           445 Lizzie had many very elegantly-written and perfumed notes in her card receiver; many beautifully-worded land flatteringo epistles in her folio; but not one, or all combined, gave her so much real pleasure as Ella's simple and -heartfelt good wishes, expressed with real poetic beauty. Lizzie had always been caressed, the passive recipient of oft- repeated attention, the beautiful object of the homage of pen and tongue, and there w3 a pleasure in the consciousness of universal admiration; n gw, contrary to her previous habits and education, some promptings of her better nature had led her to make, in some degree, one long-tried little heart happy; and she had found very soon, in a few really happy moments, that " it is more blessed to give than to receive." In purchasing her gift, she had expended that money which had been given her to procure extra ornaments for her next party-dress ; but she had learned the luxury of giving, and she preferred asking her father for no extra allowance, wishing to keep her deed a secret--and, ever after, her dresses were still plainer, and many other bundles found their way into desti- tute homes. With a heart full of gratitude did Ella write to Anna that night; the gift of Lizzie had quite elated her-it was so un- expected. Mary Lee had so little to interest her in her quiet life, she was always glad to have Anna read Ella's letters to her.   CHAPTER XLVII  THE DO CT OR PUZZLED. "Look forth-the day begins to dawn; The future openeth to thy view; The vail of mystery is undrawn;. The old things are becoming new." MARY HOWITr. "DOCTOR LFETRFN TZ," Mrs. Judson said, "was not very sociable at the tea-table-and then he hurried away to his room, it was somthing new for him." The doctor was certainly very silent, unusually so; and he spent most of the evening in his room thinking and looking over old papers; and, at night, old scenes seemed to be revived in his dreams, old faces to wear " their kindly looks again ;" memory was loitering back on the track of the past, and once again he seemed dwelling in that " green and silent spot among the hills" where a gentle mother's soft hand rested on his brow; and, as the night wore away, he was wandering beneath the sunny skies of Italy, and then resting with an invalid mother among the happiest of England's homes; and in the rapidly passing shadows of the land of dreams, he was once more in America, and a letter was in his hand-an unexpected message it contained. As he began to read, he awoke, it was only a dream, yet a strange picture of past realities it had been.   THE DOCT-OR PUZZLED.          447 Dreams sometimes leave strong impressions; they linger like unbidden guests, in the chamber of the mind all day. The doctor's dream had left him in that state of mind called reverie, in which, of all beings, doctors can not long indulge; for they are so liable to be so abruptly and unromantically termin- ated. The doctor's thoughts were interrupted by a message from  Mrs. William Giles, and a request that he would come and see Susan, who was quite ill. Mrs. Giles, like many other anxious mothers, was easily alarmed; and, on the least appearance of indisposition, she in- variably sent for the doctor. The neighbors said "it was not strange she was so careful of Susy, she was her all; she had lost three other children, and they did not know what Mrs. Giles would do if Susy was taken away." This time, however, there was no cause for alarm? and the doctor soon succeeded in quieting her fears. "row is Aunt Sally," said Mrs. Giles. "She   seemed a little better yesterday," said the doctor, "she rested pretty well the- night before, and she coughs less; her case is rather a critical one, but she has, a strong con- stitution." "Yes ;" said Mrs. Giles, "if she hadn't had, she never would have lived through what'she has, she's seen trouble in her day. "Does she have any one to stay with her nights, doctor?" "No one but Mary-;" he replied, " she seems an excellent nurse.?' "I suppose she is ;" said Mrs. Giles; , but I should thinl the poor thing would get wore out, she has had a hard time of it ever since she lived with Aunt Sally."   "8           OLIE. "How long has she lived with her ." said the doctor. "I think it is four years since they came here. I believe Aunt Sally had n't had her long before." "What relation is she to Aunt Sally?" said he, "Not any," said Mrs. Giles, "though she calls her aunt. Her mother was a real pretty woman, and lady-like, too. Herbert Lee was very fond of her; and have her he would, though his old father, Judge Lee--you may have heard of him, sir, would never give his consent; and never gave him a cent of his money, which he really ought to have had." "Has Mary Lee any relatives living?" said the doctor. X  "I don't know as there are any left," said Mrs. Giles; "the Lee family have 'most all died of consumption. Old Mr. Lee had one brother Charles, whose only daughter, Emily, married a Mr. Hentz; I think he was a foreigner; people say he was a fine man. Mrs. Hentz's health was always delicate, and they traveled awhile in Italy, and there, I think, her husband suddenly died. Mrs. Hentz went to live in England awhile with some of her friends, and Mr. Giles said the other day, he saw in an old paper-a very old paper-an English paper, I think, which had been laid in the bottom of an old box in the store, the death of a Mrs. Hentz in England; and I told him I believed it was Mr. Charles Lee's daughter Emily: the way I came to know so much about the family, Mr. Giles had an uncle who used to live in the same city with old Judge Lee, and knew all about Mr. Herbert's marriage, and the Lee prop- erty too. I've often thought I 'd like to know whether Mrs. Hentz left any children. I guess she didn't, though. It's strange how the whole family have all died off. Sometimes I think the Lord has punished the old judge for his cruelty to   nis son--such things sometimes meet their reward in this world. The old man must be dead by this time; it is a good while since I have hearld any thing about him, and 'he was sick the last I knew of him. Do you think Aunt Sally 'II get well, doctor!" "I can't tell what course the disease will take ; she may pos- sibly recover with the help of good care and nursing; the remedies seem just now to be having the desired effect." "I hope she will," said Mrs. Giles; " poor Mary is a kind of lone body in the world; Aunt Sally ain't much like her, to be sure, but then it's hard for a girl like her to be left with- out any body to care for them, and she's a right nice girl too. Susy says Miss Harwood thinks she's an excellent scholar, she paints beautiful pictures too, and I 've seen her when she thought nobody was looking at her, way up the hill yonder, with her pencil and paper. Susy says she goes up there to make pictures, and they look as natural as life. She has a little kind of a what do you call it, Susy?" "Portfolio, mother," said Susan. "Well, portfolio, then, which Miss Anna gave her, and it's full, Susy says, of just such pictures. In one of them, she's got our old house just as natural as life, and the very dog in the yard: and then she has in another, the little old house they live in, and Aunt Sally in the yard, and the wash-tub too, as Susy says, I have n't seen it, but Susy hasseen 'most all of them. Mary takes quite a shine to Susy, and so one day when I sent her up to Aunt Sally's, she got a sight at all the pictures. I suppose Mary Martin, poor thing, takes comfort in these kind of things; they say her father did before her, and -I am glad she does, for it's little enough she has to coin-   450           OLIE. fort her. I don't know what she would have done if it had u't been for AMiss Harwood; she has such a feeling kind of way with her; she's lent Mary books, made her presents, and heard her recite too. "What's that you said she was learning, Susy, that Miss Harwood said she read so well a" "French, mother." "Oh, yes, now I remember, sir, it's French she's learning, and something else too, that Aunt Sally says is no kind of use, it is all full of letters and marks, you know Aunt Mary brought one home the other day, Susy. What did she call it .?" "Algebra, I guess you mean, mother," said Susy. "Oh, yes, that's it; I never remember these hard names, but Susy don't forget what she hears once. Well, Mary has studied all the spare time she could get; she is at her book long before Aunt Sally is up in the morning; all the folks say, sir, she's a different girl since Miss Harwood came." This was the way Mrs. Giles would talk when she got on a subject she liked, and she found any body who would listen patiently to her long remarks. Little Johnny Smith said, when Mrs. Giles came to see them, he thought "she never. would stop talking, it was just like mother's big ball of yarn, you must unwind it all to find an end ; any body might think she 'd swallowed a host of newspapers." This morning she had an interested and attentive listener; the doctor had shown by his manner that he was paying close attention, and Mrs. Giles had tact enough to see it, or she might have stopped before, then she really took a great fancy to the new doctor, "he was so sociable like," she told Mr.   THE DOCTOR PUZZLED.          451 Giles when he came home to dinner, " it did her good to talk with him." Doctor Leehentz called at Aunt Sally's on his way back friom Mrs. Giles's. He found his patient with a very high fever, and Mary very much alarmed; she had been awake most of the night. Aunt Sally was constantly calling for water. She seemed to be somewhat delirious, called to Mary to raise her head, for she was drowning. As Mary gently raised her head, trying at the same time to soothe her fears, a little locket, to which a ribbon was attached, fell from her neck on to the bed; the doctor picked it up and gave it to her. She soon replaced it, and it was hidden in the folds of her dress. The case was a beautiful one. It was the only ornament Mary had, and she always wore it, though it was concealed from view. No one had noticed it but the doctor, and its accidental escape from its hiding-place revealed it to him.     .   .   CHAPTER XLVIII. CLARA S BOOK. "But from out the core of sorrow I have plucked a jewel rare, The strength which mortals gather In their ceaseless strife with care." EMLY JUDSON. UNCLE JOHN had invited Mr. Leland to dine with them,; he wanted to talk with him about some new plans of his which must be carried out immediately. While the old gen- tleman and Mr. Leland were talking, Clara went out into the -kitchen to see about some arrangements for dinner, but her thoughts were constantly dwelling on the long story she had just heard, which had dispelled the mystery so long lingering around the old west-room. "Ah!" thought she, "that was Annette's picture I saw hanging over the piano, and that was her embroidery too, and those were her slippers, and that bird-cage was hers, and that beautiful lady was Aunt Grace, and the noble-looking man by her side her husband. Poor Uncle John! it is n't strange the associations connected with that west-room are so sad to him, and now George is gone, too; there are some spots about which only mournful memo- ries linger, and sadness 'seems ever like music among the   CLARA'S BOOK.          453 hills to be waking echoes ;' how true it is, that joy 'passes away like dew from the flowers,' while with a 'lingering step and slow, grief's form departs.' I can't help but feel sadly, when I think of all the sorrowful scenes these old walls have witnessed. I hope poor Uncle John has found the true source of comfort and happiness. "After all, there is n't much in this world worth living for. All its pleasure can be so soon taken from us.- Sometimes I don't want to love any thing very much, lest I lose it. I think I should shrink from forming any new tie; but yet it is very pleasant to have somebody to love dearly, and to be necessary to one being's happiness, if we can only remember all the time that our friends are not really ours, only blessings lent, and that God may take them any time. It does me good sometimes to hear even mournful histories. I can see the hand of God in taking away uncle's comforts, though when I forget, for a moment, what I know to be true, that God order- eth all things for our good, I wonder why all the friends of some who can make those they love so happy, are taken away from a world in which they seem so necessary; while the poor, the unhappy, and the suffering, linger out a weary life without the power of doing any good, and often longing for release. Mother says in this world we will often wonder, and yet we must wait until the great book is opened; we surely can not judge rightly or wisely of the great Author of events, by only reading a page of his providences. We make our own comments and pauses, too, when the Great Author alone can make the right interpretation of the great work of human life; that mysterious volume, with its pleas- ant and mournful chapters-   454           o L I E. "'Blind unbelief is sure to err, And search His works in vain; God is his own interpreter, And He will make it plain.' "The whole plan is so intricate, so far above our compre- hension, sometimes when we turn over the last page, we can look back and see the beautiful design of the whole, and with our joyful, dying accents exclaim,' It is finished, and the end is peace.' So might the voices of loved ones gone so early to their rest say, as they look down from their ' star-lit homes,' grateful that they were so early taken from the evil to- come. The west room ought not to be gloomy after all, for there have kind angels beckoned home weary spirits to rest. "'High in yonder realms of light Dwell the enraptured saints above; Far beyond our feeble sight, Happy in Emanuel's love.' "We lingerers in this vale of tears ought not to shed one tear for them-' the pure, the enfranchised dead.' Strange that we ever say of happy spirits passed into the skies-' Poor souls! how mysterious God should take them; perhaps if we had made more effort, they might have been longer with us.' As if they were poor unfortunate beings, doomed to exile in a distant world; as if we regret our inability to delay the execution of the dreaded sentence, when they are enjoying that glorious 'inheritance that fadeth not away.' I never had just such thoughts before; perhaps Ella would say, I was 'thinking a sermon:" Just then Mrs. Green came in to see Miss Clara on some   CLARA'S BOOK.          455 business, and her soliloquy was interrupted. Mrs. Green stayed until dinner time. After dinner Uncle John called Clara into the library, where he and Mr. Leland had been talking all the morning about some plans for the benefit of the poor-making rents lower, providing means of instruction, etc. "Clara," said he, as she entered the room, "Mr. Leland and I have been talking matters over, and we have concluded it is best to have the names of all the members in each family written down; it will save us much trouble. There are a great many families around here, and a few miles from here. I guess you have explored every nook and corner in your rides and walks; you know all the names of the children, too; I ought to have interested myself in them before. I think you had better let Mr. Leland take that book of yours home, it will save him the trouble of going all around just now." "What book, uncle?" "Why that book where you have written all the names of your Bible district, or Tract district, as I call all the country around here. He is going home soon; you had better get it now.                        Poor Clara did not know how to grant this unexpected re- quest. She was afraid to make any objections, knowing that any she might make would be decidedly opposed by Uncle John, who always expected his requests would be uncondition- ally complied with; so the book must be got, and she left the room. "The book," as Uncle John called it, was more like a diary than a list of names. Clara had called every where for miles   456           OL I E. around, visited all the poor, given them books, and often taken food and medicine where they were needed. Thus she had become deeply interested in many, and learned all of their histories, which she had written in her book, occasionally adding the thoughts which her visits had suggested. There were some very touching reports on some of the pages--re- ports of what Uncle John had chosen to call "( Clara's Bible district;" but she would as soon have thought of having some of her thoughts daguerreotyped and sent around for general examination, as to have lent this book to any one, much less to Mr. Leland. Mr. Leland, supposing it was a mere list of names and a few statistics, felt no delicacy in accepting Uncle John's kind offer. Clara had made some graphic delineations of character, whose counterparts any one acquainted with the originals could easily recognize. There were a few loose slips of paper, on which were written thoughts suggested by different ser- mons of Mr. Leland's, or extracts from the sermons, which Clara had laid in the book at different times and forgotten. The book had lain in one of her drawers, and had not been touched for days. Clara returned in a few moments to the library, saying, "Uncle, I don't think this book will be of much service to Mr. Leland; I can copy a list of the names if he wishes." "i No, no, child, that will not do; you told me something about some of the history of the people, and that will be use- ful to him." Mr. Leland took it, thanking Clara for the trouble she had saved him, and left.   After he had gone, Clara began to think that possibly there might be some of her other papers in the book. "Oh dear! what, have I done?" thought she. "I guess Mr. Leland 'll think those papers are enlarged editions of some of my statistics, which I left there for his especial benefit. I 'm sure I don't know but his name is on some of them. "I wonder what did put the idea into Uncle John's head, to show him my book. I shall almost be ashamed to meet Mr. Leland again after his having seen so many of my sage re- flections, which I have so provokingly interspersed with the names. It is impossible for him to read the one without see- ing the other.         CHAPTER XLIX. A GLIMPSE   OF CLARA S HEART. "Ever drifting, drifting, drifting, On the shifting Currents of the restless heart; Till, at length in books recorded, They, like hoarded Household words, no more depart." MR. LELAND, when he came to read Clara's book, felt that she had manifested a very reasonable reluctance to lending what she might have deemed sacred; and he regretted that he had not guessed the motive 5f her objection, and declined availing himself of a favor thoughtlessly offered by Uncle John, but which might have given her pain to grant. He regretted it, because it might have troubled her, and yet he was delighted with the opportunity it had afforded him of gaining an insight into her character, which years of such intercourse as he had had with her could never have given him. The depth of her strongest and purest feelings were mirrored in its smooth surface; the beautiful thoughts, her constant visitants, were sprinkled like so many gems upon its pages. Every line breathed the elevated sentiment and pure prin ciples of the writer. It was a marvel and a mystery to him,   how one so young, so inexperienced, should have had such thoughts and feelings. Had she been with him in his past, and shared his misfortunes, she could have written no truer words of comfort. Had she looked forward to the future with him, she could have expressed no more lofty ambition or holy hopes. They seemed like some of his own thoughts, the thoughts that he had when all alone in the still hours of night ; thoughts that he had when he looked forward to a future of usefulness, or knelt by his Bible in his own room; thoughts that had he found any where, he would, have rested uneasily until he had known whose hand had traced, or whose brain had con- ceived them, whose thoughts responded so strangely to his own. On one little scrap of paper was a perfect epitome of one of his sermons, On the Uses of Affliction; she must have given very close attention, to have copied so exactly his own words. Such warm sympathies, such elevated sentiments, so rapidly varying yet deep emotions, must have come from   what was his exact ideal of a true woman's heart, with its quick percep- tion of the beautiful, its practical and constant love of the good.  Such clear, forcible, and beautiful thoughts, could pro- ceed only from a mind highly cultivated and well disciplined. She had invested the little incidents of every-day life, with at- tractiveness and beauty, and away from all or any society in which she could enjoy or improve her own mind, solitude had been her companion, and it was a relief to trace her thoughts on paper; and when older memories visited her, or a sense of lone- liness oppressed her, it was a pleasure to confide to the confi-   4O0           OLI E. dential pages of her book her feelings, little dreaming that any eye, save her own, would ever rest upon them. Mr. Leland had heard her once think aloud, and now acci- dent had revealed to him a long chapter of her thoughts. The book was valuable for its statistics, very valuable; it saved the reader very much labor and trouble. Mr. Leland returned it very soon, intending to make the best apology he could for having taken it, yet he felt that it would be a very awkward one at best, as embarrassing to give as to be received. Uncle John had insisted upon his taking it, and he was perfectly ignorant of the contents; and Clara could not very politely have expressed more reluctance than she did, without positively disobeying Uncle John, whose displeasure she evidently feared to incur; or stopping to make an explanation to her very embarrassing, and to Uncle John unreasonable, and yet had she had time to think, she certainly would have devised some means to refuse the request. He returned the book, but Clara was out, which was both a source of pleasure and annoyance to him; of pleasure, because it saved him the difficult task of apologizing fdr which he was not prepared, of annoyance, because he knew that would be the best time to allude to it, and he kmew something really ought to be said. Little things become magnified by dwelling upon them, and this affair of the book, annoyed Clara very much, it-seemed to be her destiny to have Mr. Leland hear or know her thoughts. Neither had courage afterward to allude to it, yet their con- versation was more free, and the reserve that had attended their previous intercourse gradually wore away. Clara always thought it was a very silly thing for her to   - .. - A - , -.  n nJ XI 1. *. U . put so many things in one book; and after that, she was careful to keep all lists and statistics by themselves for Uncle John's special benefit, to which he often referred when carry- ing out his benevolent plans. /   CHAPTER L. OLD LETTERS--SLEEPING MEMORIES AWAKENED. "Slowly the Bible of the race is writ, And not on paper leaves nor leaves of stone; Each age, each kindred, adds a verse to it, Texts of despair or hope, of joy or moan." LowELL UNCLE JOHN HARWOOD sat in the library looking over old papers; there was one package of old letters taken from the upper drawer of a bureau, which had stood for years in one corner of the old west room. The bureau had been sent off to be repaired; some of the elaborate carving about the top of it was broken, and one of the drawers was cracked. Nelly called it "Miss Grace's bureau;" it was an heir-loom in the Harwood family, once belonged to General Harwood's mother. Nelly knew many stories connected with its original purchase, the journeys it had performed, contents it had held, etc. It was sent off to be repaired, with strict directions from Uncle John not to remodel it in any way, to change its anti- quated appearance. The bureau had been repaired and put back in its old cor- ner, and the west room locked once more, but the papers   OLD   LETTERS..        463 taken from its upper drawer, had never been replaced, but were snugly stowed away on one of the old library shelves. The library had had repeated accessions of books, till the old papers were crowded out of the place they had occupied for years, and were huddled together in a small space on one corner of the topmost shelf. One day while Nelly was replacing some books on one of the upper shelves, down dropped a large package of papers; after having some trouble in picking up the scattered docu-  ments, Nelly had dared to suggest the propriety of commit- ting the rubbish to the flames. In a more gracious mood than usual, Uncle John had con- sented to burn all that was useless; but he must look over them first; there were sundry deeds, titles, etc., these were laid away in a pile by themselves; then there was a package of old letters in an unknown hand. Uncle John's first thoughts were on seeing it--"Why they are old letters, useless trash any- how, there 's nothing more good for nothing than old letters; they lumber up the library;" but as he lay them down on a pile of old papers to burn, "Miss Grace Harwood," in a fair smooth hand, met his eye, on the- outside of a partly folded sheet; Uncle John's association connected with that beloved name were too tender to enable him to destroy any thing be- longing to its owner. Poor Grace! perhaps she had carefully saved them for years, in that old bureau in the west room; and to do them up once more carefully by themselves, required more fortitude than Uncle John could summon. Poor vld man! this discovery had quite unnerved him-he   "4           OLIE. had always studiously kept out of his sight every reminiscence of that old west room. But now his thoughts went back to the days and the hours when he had seen a fair young girl perusing well-filled letters from some absent friend-how eagerly she had seized those letters from  his hand-how light-hearted she was when she sat by that little writing-desk to trace some message of love and friendship to some absent one. He used to wonder how she could find so much to write about. Her closely-written and re-written documents were so unlike his own usually laconic epistles; written to ask some question, answer some inquiry, make some suggestion; he would com- mence half-way down the page-write three lines and a half, and sign himself " your most obedient." Poor Uncle John leaned back a long time in his old arm- chair, reverizing about the past-till the deep tones of the old clock on the stairs counted slowly ten solemn peals-just as ten years ago its chimes had fallen on other, younger ears, now locked in the slumbers of the grave-the sound aroused him-he started up-called Clara! u"Clara," said he, "look over those papers on the table, they 're too illegible for old eyes like mine; if there's any thing belonging to the family, save them; look them all over carefully, burn up any thing you see that 's useless ;" he spoke in a husky voice--coughed as if he had some choking sensation, and went out abruptly. Clara's quick eye soon detected the reason of Uncle John's sudden termination of his morning's task. She found about a dozen letters, elegantly written, directed to "Grace Harwood," and signed "Olivia L." Among the letters was a small pack- age containing a little box, with a beautiful miniature within   OLD LETTERS.           465 it-the miniature, so said a note found with it, of Olivia Lee, taken just before her marriage, and given to Grace Harwood as a keepsake-the last time the friends met. There was another letter of a later date signed "Olivia Lee," and passages in the letter frequently referred to her new husband, whom she called Herbert- there was a postscript humorously written!n another hand, and signed "Herbert Lee." There were a few letters written long after Olivia's mar- riage-some years apart. The last letters the writer had written with a heavy heart; Herbert- had been unjustly accused of forgery, and had fled suddenly from the country. Olivia was left alone; suspicious circumstances were soon cleared up; but Herbert died away from home before the news could reach him. Clara was much interested in the touching history con- tained in these old letters. There was one letter written after Herbert's death. There were frequent allusions in the letters to Cousin Walter, "Walter Leland ;" the miniature bore a strong likeness to Mr. Leland, Clara thought, as she gazed upon the delicate features. Olivia Lee was really Walter's cousin, her father, Charles Leland, had forbidden all communication between herself and Herbert Lee. Her father was a proud man, though he had lost most of his fortune. There was a family feud of long-standing between old Judge Lee and Charles Leland. Olivia had left home with- out her father's consent; and she and Herbert were privately married-Judge Lee had repeatedly sworn that no child of his should marry one of those beggared Lelands. 20*   "6           OLIE. There was a fragment remaining of a nearly destroyed let- ter, on which was written faintly, on one corner, something about failing health; on anothert orn corner, were the words "dear, dear child!" Clara imagined Olivia had a child to share her loneliness; but it was a woman's conclusion, Uncle John would have said she jumped at it, without foundation or logical inference. "Was Olivia dead, and such a child still living? How much would the orphan prize this little miniature," thought Clara, as she replaced the picture in the box. The next time Mr. Leland called he recognized immediately the beautiful likeness of his lovely cousin, as Clara placed it open in his hand. The Leland family had had no communication with her since her marriage, and had lost all trace of her till they acci- dentally heard of her death, some time after it occurred. Clara cherished, perhaps, the unfounded belief, that Olivia's orphan child was alive somewhere. Yes; it was a woman's illogical conclusion, but for once it was true. Long, long years ago, Olie's mother had spent many happy hours with Grace Harwood in that old west room; and the only written record of her history, its sorrows and trials, its crushed hopes, was in those old letters, once laid care- fully away in the drawer of that very west room-laid away by pale hands, now meekly folded in the coffin's narrow home. Seldom had life dawned brighter than Olivia Lee's; and seldom had its sun set in deeper, darker gloom-eai chly gloom, not eternal. In her hours of sorrow, her consolation had been firom above. o   CHAPTER LI. THE WEDDING . To make a happy fireside clime For weans and wife, Is the true pathos and sublime Of human life." THREE years had passed, and about as many events had happened in Elmville as happen in most places during that time. There was a sewing society at Mrs. Smith's, and Lottie Harding  was there. She had  just returned from Atnna's wedding, and every body was asking the news. Lottie had been visiting an old school-mate of her's at Pyncheon square, as the girls always called it, and Anna had invited her to come to her wedding. "Was it a very large wedding?" said Mrs. Giles. "No; there were only a few there. I can remember them all. "There was the bride and groom, of course; the bride's sister, Clara; and a young minister, the finest-looking gentle- man I ever saw; the bride's youngest sister, Ella; and a young doctor, I  think his name was Leslie." "Who stood up with the bride 8" said Mrs. Smith.   "8            OLIE. "There were two bridesmaids," said Lottie; "Miss Julie Wallace and Miss Ella Harwood, Anna's sister; the grooms- men were Doctor Leslie and Mr. Arthur Sherwood." "Go on Lottie, and tell us who all were there," said Mrs. William Giles. "Well, there were Doctor Leehentz and his bride, Mr. Sherwood (who is an old acquaintance of the doctor's; I believe he met him in France or somewhere, when they were traveling), Miss Mary Sherwood, his daughter, Miss Lizzie Warner, Mr. and Mrs. Holbrook, old friends of Anna, and Miss Lottie Harding, from Elmville." "We'd all like to have been in your place, Lottie," said Mrs. Daniel Giles, wiping her eyes. "The bride sent you all some cake," said Lottie; "and beautiful cake it was, too. I have a little trunk full of cake- boxes. Miss Lizzie Warner insisted on furnishing the cake, and I never saw any look handsomer. Anna has n't forgotten one of her old friends." "I don't believe she ever forgot any body," said Mrs. Green. "God bless her, she is a prize for any man." "How did the bride look?" said Mrs. Smith. "She looked sweetly-the prettiest bride I ever saw; you know Anna always did look well, and her sister Ella is almost as pretty as she is, and the gentleman who stood up with her is as handsome as the groom, only a very little taller. "It is said that Doctor Leslie, ewho was one of the com- mittee on compositions, and was requested to present the prize which Ella had won, fell in love with the composition, and the writer, too. She had lived opposite to him some time, and he says when he came to see her at the examina-   tion, it was the being who had haunted his dreams a long time. "Ella's mother said she was altogether too young to think of being engaged or married, yet they correspond and under- stand each other very well; every body supposes it will be a match. "It all seemed to me like a romance; I think real life ex- ceeds fiction. I could n't help thinking so when I looked at Doctor Leehentz and his bride." "Well, that beats any thing I ever heard of," said Mrs. Giles. "How did Mary look?" "Oh, perfectly happy," said Lottie; "and the doctor seems very fond of her." "Well, Mary has only added to her name, without changing it," said Mrs. Smith. "1How little we thought when the doc- tor first came here, that he was any connection to Mary Lee." "There is not much connection after all," said Mrs. Giles. "Old Mr. Judge Lee's brother's daughter married Mr. Hentz, and the doctor was their son; and, at his mother's request, her maiden name, Lee, was prefixed to his, so he has always been called Leehentz. Old Judge Lee left all his property to the young doctor, not knowing or caring whether Herbert's child was living. "The doctor did not know till he came here that Herbert had left any child, and when he found it out, she was ignor- ant of his knowledge of her history. It happened very well, as he had loved her some time. After Aunt Sally died he offered himself to her, telling her who he was, and that if she refused him, it was his intention to settle the fortune on her, of E   470           OLIE. which he thought her grandfather had unjustly deprived her; if she accepted him, she would of course share it with him. Mary had loved him too well without the fortune to refuse him, and they will enjoy it together." "So, after all, the Lee estate has fallen into the right hands, and good hands, too," said Mrs. Green. "I thought I heard somebody say the doctor had seen Mary before," said Mrs. Harding. "Yes, mother, he had," said Lottie; "they met when they were children, and lived, I believe, for some months side by side ; one with an old aunt, Rachel, and the other with an aunt Betsy. If it should all be known there 'd be a good deal of romance about it, I guess, as much as you find in many novels. They had not met since they were children, until Doctor Leehentz came to Elmville; and it was a long time before he knew who she really was. She says now there was something familiar in the tones of his voice; then his hair always grew over his forehead different from any body's else. Something about him attracted her attention when she went to get his clothes to wash-you know Aunt Sally would make her go for the strange gentleman's clothes. "One day when Aunt Sally was sick, a little locket dropped from Mary Lee's neck; it was the very locket the doctor had given her when he was a boy, and told her to keep till he came back again; he had gone on a visit home, and expected to return in two or three weeks. True enough Mary did keep it all her life. Well, she dropped this locket, and the doctor picked it up. It had a peculiar olA-fashioned case, any one who had once held it would know it. The locket has a new, beautiful case, and Mary always wears it now. She calls the   TRE WEDDING.           471 doctor, Richie, and he calls her Olie, and takes a wonderful fancy to the name." "I never knew what the doctor's name was," said Mrs. Harding; "I thought it was Robert; it was ' R.' on his trunk2'." "No, mother," said Lottie, "it is Richard; and somebody said Mary's uncle, who took her when a child, gave her the name of Olivia, and always called her Olie." "Was he her uncle," said Mrs. Green, "that gentleman who adopted her?" "No, I believe not," said Lottie. "He was an old friend of her mother's; people say they were once engaged: I don't know how true that was."' "Where are the doctor and his wife now?" said Mrs. Smith. "They have gone on   a bridal tour," said Lottie. "The doctor does n't come into the possession of all his estate quite yet." "Well," said Mrs. Daniel Giles, "I am glad Mary has a good husband, she was left so lonely. The doctor says Mary was his first and second love both. She is happy now. She has been tried in the school of affliction. Nobody begins to know  how much she has suffered at Aunt Sally's-nobody but Mary herself." "There was one thing I could not understand," interrupted Lottie; "that young minister that stood up with Clara, Mr. Leland I think they called him, kissed Mary Leehentz, and called her Cousin Olie, and gave her a miniature and a pack- age of letters, and they went into another room together. It is very strange that he should know any thing about Mary; strange if Mary Lee should yet call Anna's sister Clara, Cousin -she will if reports are true.   472           OLIE. "I think Mary is well calculated to bear prosperity," said Mrs. Harding, not seeming to hear Lottle's remark. "Where is Mrs. Wilder?" said Mrs. Smith. "Oh, she has gone to housekeeping, in her little cottage," said Lottie. "Did you give her our daguerreotypes a" said Ellen Giles, who had just come in with a basket of clothing for the society to make. "Oh, yes," said Lottie, "I had almost forgotten about that. I told her that an artist was in Elmville a few days, and you girls all got together and had your likenesses taken on one plate to send to her; and when she looked at it she cried, and said she should think more of that than any thing you could give her. She had some beautiful presents. "She had an elegant gold watch from Dr. and Mrs. Lee- hentz, a silver cake-basket from Dr. Taylor, a set of spoons from Mary Sherwood, a butter-knife from Lizzie Warner, an elegant writing-desk from Mrs. Taylor, a beautiful pin from sister Clara, in the shape of a harp, an elegant fan from Mr. Arthur Sherwood, a card-case from Mr. Sherwood, a large vol- ume of poems from Dr. Leslie, and a great many other things I have forgotten." "And what did you give her, Lottie?" said Mrs. Harding. "Oh, I gave her a -half a dozen damask table-cloths, that she might think, as she looked at the useful gift, what a good, practical, decent girl she had made out of the spoiled board- ing-school miss," said Lottie, laughing, " you know father says she has taken all the kinks out of my head." ( And that is n't all of it, Lottie," said Mrs. Harding, " you bought the gift with money you had saved yourself." A^   CHAPTER LII. THEI  YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER. "I'd rather look on smiling faces, And linger round a cheerful hearth, Than mark the stars' bright hiding-places As theyj peep out upon the earth." MRS. HARWOOD S FIRST LETTER FROM ANNA. "I AM ashamed of myself, my dear mother, for allowing your kind letter to remain so long unanswered, yet so notable a housekeeper have I been becoming, that hardly one little inch of time, one solitary minute has run away from me, without tugging some wonderful act of mine along with it. How many times you and Ella would have laughed outright, could you have looked over my shoulders, while I am engaged in sundry ways. "Well, they always told me experience Was the best teacher, and so it may prove -sure I am it is a pretty thorough one- then that other old adage, practice makes perfect, is rather a consoling one; but I am coming to the sober conclusion that it is'a wee bit of a story, for in some cases repeated experi- ments have 'only led me Jack-a-lantern chasing; but never despair, has always been my motto, and it has proved too good a friend to give up for trifles. My duties thus far have been   474           OLIE. very pleasant, occasionally some little, some very little thing has made me look in the mood bordering on the sober, butt usually I have succeeded much better than I had anticipated, and I feel quite encouraged, as we sit down to our little board, to find that I can provide the repast, and feel that I can contribute to another's enjoyment, and thus make myself happy. "Whenever I have failed in doing any thing as well as I would like, my husband puts on such a pleasant face, and looks into the merits of the thing, that one could n't shed a tear for one's life, if one wanted to. If the bread happens to be heavy, it is next door to being light, and a lengthy disqui- sition is entered into respecting the reason of the failure, the good qualities of the aforementioned article, until a body gets intensely interested in the eloquence of the speaker, who seems to relish the weighty morsels of bread as if they were so much milk and honey. By-the-by, if you could look into my little closet, you would see a bountiful share of those arti- cles. My husband has an aunt living near us, who has sent us many presents, and none more acceptable than a large jar of pickles, which called forth my most sincere thanks. I was introduced to her last night, and Sunday night though it was, I could n't help alluding to her kindness. -"We have returned many of our calls, find all very pleasant, and begin now to feel almost quite at home in the village, as well as in our little cottage. It seems so strange to be called Mrs. Wilder, sometimes I have to stop and think who Mrs. Wilder is. I find my husband has a large circle of friends, and all give him a cordial welcome; but I 'll not begin talk- ing about him, lest you will not make allowance for a wife's   X  vU n Nu  JLL U ibi;EEPERiK    475 partiality; and I have been writing some time all about my little selfish self, "Were I blessed with descriptive powers, I might tell you all about the beautiful scenery that meets the eye of every in- habitant of our little village, in all directions, or the neat dwellings around us; and include a description of our own in the vocabulary; but here I must plead inability; true, I might tell you about home, but you would need to be here to know just how pleasant every nook and little crevice is, as the sun smiles upon, or peeps through it; very few of the latter we have, though of the former an abundant supply. I think little Willie would call it -a charming place to play hide and seek. I am in our little library, the dearest room in the house to me, and while I am writing, Arthur is deep in the mysteries of Dryden, or Hallam, or Johnson, or Bacon, or Kent, or Black- stone-probably the latter-quite a literary atmosphere I am breathing; perhaps I may catch some inspiration from the place and its associations, and find that the mantle of some of the great and good, whose names and thoughts are enrolled in the volumes before me, is falling upon me, or, before I know it, think and talk in ,Latin, or Greek, or Hebrew; but I hope not, for I know I should not enjoy that kind of chat, or you either. There is little danger, however, and you would not fear it could you see how little I trouble the living, much less disturb the dead languages. I don't know but I shall even forget the contents of those little volumes on the old high desk at Elmville school. "Little I thought when I first took my seat behind it, that I should ever be here. Just two weeks ago to-night I was standing before that lounge, hearing I hardly know what, so   476           OLIE. every which way were my thoughts scattered, some dwelling upon the present, of so soon leaving my nearest and dearest friends; but I will not hunt for the others; in such diverse directions did they go, that my poor brain would tire in search- ing for them. "I have been asking Arthur what I promised to do, but he tells me such a long list of hard things, that I really can't be- lieve it all; and tell him that he is more guilty of forgetful, ness than I. "Do thank Dr. Leslie for standing up with us, and keeping a long face off of me and the rest of us. I can only offer you my poor gratitude for all your kindness. I wish I could ex- press my feelings as eloquently as you deserve, right from my heart. Yes, my dear mother, I can not be too grateful to you, you have always been so very kind to me; but I can't even write about it without childlike crying over it, and wishing I had been more kind and daughterlike to you, but I will not say more now. "Now, dear mother, would n't you like to know what your Anna is doing? I have wished a great many times that you were here during the last two weeks. I have wanted so much to ask you how to do this, and how to do that. I suppose it takes me much longer to do any thing than itwould you; and you would laugh should I sit down and tell you to-night the performances of the day, and say, ' Is that all you have done, Anna?' "The days never seemed so short to me, only just time enough to jump up out of bed, and whirl around prettily before it is time for retiring; and the weeks-I mean to count the next one, and see if there are really seven days in it.   "I have been trying to bake, cook, and iron, but am not yet much of an adept"in either of the sciences. My cook book has not shown its face here since I came; it must be lodging with you: how I shall make some of your nice soft gingerbread that Arthur is so fond of, I don't know. I guess I shall have some very original recipes. The cook in whose abilities I placed so much confidence has a felon on her right hand ; all Arthur's knowledge of law, justice, or equity could n't prevent or check this felonious transaction. "I was afraid, my dear mother, that you would be sick after we left, you had done and passed through so much. How can I ever repay you for the much, the very much you have done for me. Before I left, I said nothing to you ex- pressive of my feelings, for I could not, my heart was so full; and though I could have told you, my own dear mother, how grateful, how very grateful, I'was for all your love, and all your kindness, and begged your forgiveness for the many times I had grieved you, it was all I could do to hide the tears that would steal in spite of me into my eyes, and I had to be silent; but I was not ungrateful: how much more I want to say to you now, and to Ella, but Arthur says it is time to take it to the office. . Your little gift lies on my table, and every time I look at it, it talks in its silent way about you. I thanked you for it as you slipped it into my hands at parting, and now that I have been reading it, and find how valuable it is, I want to thank you again. -We try to prac- tice the duties it recommends, and morning and night kneel together around our family altar. Thus far our kind Heavenly Father has answered our daily petitions, by crowning our mo- inents with His loving-kindness and  tender-mercies. May ' "   478           OL IE we be truly grateful, and seek continually to make it our 'meat and drink to do His will. My thoughts often wander back to the dear home I have left, and though I have many new friends, I can not tell you how much good a letter from home does me; when I receive one, love and memory anni- hilates the great distance between us, and I seem once more by your side, as when years ago I was a little child lisping the prayer you taught me. "Your prayers, my dear mother, have followed me like a perpetual blessing. My life the past two years has seemed very happy. I am daily reminded of the dear little band I left at Elmville, by the perfect likeness of their bright faces lying on my table. 'Surely goodness and mercy have fol- lowed me all my life.' But my letter must go. I am look- ing for a letter from home every day; I hope there will be one in the office to-morrow. "Your affectionate and grateful daughter. "ANNA WILDER. "P. S. I forgot to tell you that I am expecting a visit soon from Mary and the doctor. I have had one letter from Mary; she seems very happy; they are possibly now on their way here. I suppose Mary will want to stop at Isaac Shaw's first. How little we thought, mother, when Ella went to see that little Olie, that she would ever become so dear to us all. I have received one letter from her since her marriage. How very dear she is to me; she seems so very grateful for the few kindnesses I have shown her."   CHAPTER LIII. TH E   WANDERER'S RETURN. That dear old home, I love it well, Its trees, and plants, and flowers, For there I've spent, I can not tell How many happy hours. "Is N'T this landscape lovely, surpassingly lovely, Richie?" said Mary Leehentz to her husband, as they rode leisurely along  through the bright valley and up the mountain side, every now   and then catching a glimpse of the Delaware winding its way through vale and mountain. "How familiar every object looks! those poplar-trees yonder, and these beech along the road; it only seems but yesterday, Richie, since you gave me this locket under that tree, that dear old tree, where we sat so often; and look, there is the top of Aunt Rachel's chimney-dear old lady, perhaps she's not there now; how natural that gate looks; how those trees in front have grown. Richie, you get out first and knock; ask if Isaac Shaw lives there, and if his wife is at home; tell them you are traveling, and would like rest and a dinner before you go farther. Dear old soul! she 'd be glad enough to give it to you." Doctor Leehentz knocked on the old door, which stood wide open as usual. Soon a trembling step was heard.   480           O LIE. While the doctor had entered the house, Mary looked around her for a few moments; the morning-glories were just opening, the bean-vines still climbing up over little Matie's window. The apple-trees near Aunt Rachel's parlor had grown larger, and the boughs were bending beneath the weight of the beautiful crimson fruit; the old wagon-house was still standing; the old stone-fence which divided Uncle Isaac's orchard from Uncle Gideon's was there, too; rather rickety it looked; a good many loose stones had fallen, and lay along by the fence. How beautifully the sunlight played on the waving grass in the old meadow. The delicious breath of flow- ers mingled with the scent of the new mown hay, and Mary's heart went up in a silent psalm of gratitude as she thought of the past. "Olie, dear Olic!"Aunt Rachel had mourned for her as an only child; both she and Isaac had sought in vain; there was no trace to be found of her. They heard of Mr. Brant's death, and were much alarmed, not knowing the fate of the lost one. They went to Mrs. St. John's; she had gone, no one knew whither. Aunt Rachel's step was slow and trembling; she had never been the same since Susan's death; her glossy brown hair was striped with silver; many a new wrinkle was deep-set in the furrowed cheek and smooth forehead; the same kind, honest expression played about the mouth; the teeth were there, large and white as ever; but those eyes, those large, dark, good-natured gray eyes were shut out forever from the light of loving faces; she wept so much when Susan died,   THE WANDERER S RETURN.         481 and then she had a cataract over both eyed; she was blind, perfectly blind; she gave Dr. Leehentz a kind welcome; but she did not recognize either him or his wife; she laid her hands on Mary's head, smoothed the white forehead, felt of the glossy curls, the regular features, the small mouth, the neck, and the round chin; and gradually the truth flashed upon her that Ohe had come back. Words can not describe her surprise and pleasure when she found that it was really Olie herself-that she had come back with Doctor Richie. "Oh! if I could only have a sight of that sweet face once more," said she, while tears rolled down her cheeks; then she told Mary how she had kept her little room for years just as she had left it; and she had often told Isaac she had a feeling in her heart that some time or another Ole would come back yet-come back to that same little room; every year she had planted the morning-glories under her window, and kept the weeds out of that little garden with her own hands. It was touching to see the old lady sitting quite still to let Mary try on the cap she had made for her with her own hands; she could n6t see it, but she could feel the nice rows of fluted lace, and bows of rich white satin ribbon; it was so kind in Mary to think of a cap, just the very thing she wanted, her caps had always been such a trouble, she could n't find any body to make 'em; before she was blind, she would get some strips of old lace and bits of ribbon, and conjure up something in the shape of a cap, but it never looked anyhow, though she had to make it do' but this cap, she could not see it, but she knew it was pretty, prettier than if all the French milliners had put their heads together to make it. While Rachel was trying on the cap, Isaac came in. 21   482           OLI Z E. "Why, Olie," said the old gentleman, for he persisted in calling Mary, Olie; " her other names did n't sound natural," he said; " why, Olie, how pretty you've made Rachel look-- that fits her to a T. Who'd thought, years ago when you was flying about the house like a young kitten, that you 'd ever come back to put a cap on that old head; you 've done what I could n't; you know I did something in the cap line once. "Doctor," says Uncle Isaac, turning round suddenly, and brushing away the lock- of hair that hung over his forehead. "I must tell you a story about your Aunt Rachel; for a long time she'd been teasing mne to buy her a cap, and so when I went to York, I took it into my head to get her one. I looked in all the fashionable places, as I thought, and after walking round a good while, at last, I found a nice handsome cap with ribbons and bows on, which I thought would suit her exactly, and make her face look as handsome as the day when I mar- ried her; the shop-keeper told me it was the newest style, when I inquired for the price; and so I did n't mind what it cost me, as Rachel did n't have a new cap every day; and so I brought it home-and almost the first thing when I got in the house, she asked me if I had bought her cap, and so I un- packed my things, and taking out the cap--' There,' says I, 'Rachel, ain't that a beauty .' Raising up both her hands, open- ing her eyes wide, she exclaimed, ' Why, bless my heart! Isaac, do you think I can wear such a thing as that, all flowered and curlicued off-all the young girls in the neighborhood would be laughing at me, teasing me for the new fashions for the next year; why, Isaac,' looking at it again very intently, ' I never can wear that in the vorld.' Very well,' said I; ' put it up and keep it for some of your children, or grandchildren, for   THE WANDERER'S RETURN.         483 I should n't wonder if some on 'em should some day become fashionable enough to wear it in this growin' age. Don't say I never bought you a cap if you don't wear it.' But quite late in the fall, when the crops were all in, Rachel and I took a notion to make brother William a visit-says I to Rachel, when we got all ready, ' You'd better take that new cap along, it has lain in the drawer long enough to be worn once.' ' I never shall wear that cap, Isaac, if I do take it,' says she; 'but if you 've a mind to carry it, you may put it up in that band-box Sally brought home her new bonnet in, last spring; and so I packed up the cap in the band-box and put it into the wagon; and just as we were about to start, I thought William would be very glad to have some of those nice large golden pippins that I'd gathered a few days before, and it struck me I could put a few of them in that big band- box under the cap; and so I put in as many as I could, leaving room for Rachel's cap. Well, the next day after I'd got to William's, Rachel said she'd put on the cap if I 'd go and get it, and so I went out to the wagon-house, thinking to my- self that I'd see once how nice Rachel would look in her new cap; when I   got to the wagon-house, I found that my old rhorse, being in a strange place, had managed somehow or another to untie his halter, and had been strolling about in the night looking for something to eat; he hadn't been long in smelling  out the apples, I guess, and thrusting his nose through the kiver of the box, he was not long in making sad havoc of the box, cap, apples, and all. How much of the cap he'd eaten, I  can't tell; but I only found a few stray bows, and that was all that was left of Rachel's fashionable cap. 'Now Isaac,' said she, 'why did n't you tell me you were   484           o LIE. going to put apples in that box, you might know the horse would spoil the cap if he 'd got to the apples.' "' Why,' says I, ' Rachel, I thought you did n't care much about the cap; and then it would be such a nice place fogr the apples- "' and here the doctor interrupted Uncle Isaac, and, with a hearty laugh, remarked, "Well, Uncle Isaac, I think the horse used as much good taste as either of you." "That makes me think," said Isaac, rising, "I guess Dick will want watering by this time; he 's been hard at work all the morning." So off he went out of the back door, while Rachel went into the kitchen to see about getting dinner. Rachel did n't laugh much over the cap story; she was such a prudent, economical body, it always made her feel poor to think how much money was wasted on a cap which she never wore. Isaac paid enough for it to get her two or three nice, modest-looking caps, suitable for a plain old body as she was. Uncle Isaac did n't care much for what he called show, and it was a wonder he bought the cap; the only fanciful thing he had indulged in for many years, were the bright brass buttons he had on his coat the first time he went to see Rachel; he had an idea, somehow or other, that such things would please the women-so he told Rachel afterward. They had been housekeeping two years, when he came home one day and told Rachel he did n't care if she planted some morn- ing-glories down-- by the south windows; he knew it was "kinder foolish," but he had seen some flowers, pretty vines, growing over Mr. Hawley's door; and if Rachel would take care on 'em herself, he did n't care if they did have a few flowers, and be a little more like their neighbors.   Rachel was quite surprised; Isaac had always thought it a waste of time and a waste of room to plant such things as long as " you could n't eat 'em, or sell 'em, or give 'em to the cows, or pigs, or chickens." But Rachel was prudent, and said nothing, only after that, she planted many flowers, though Isaac still said there was no use in it. But one morning early, when the flowers had grown nicely, she looked out of the window, and there was Isaac smelling of all the flowers, and straightening up with small sticks the plants that had fallen down during the heavy shower of the night previous. Only a few days afterward he brought home some calico for a gown for Rachel, with "big roses," he called them, all over it. Rachel thought it was too gay, but she said nothing, though she would have preferred some neat little figure; but she was glad on the whole that Isaac was beginning to notice such things. Some months after, what should he do but bring home the picture of Caroline, and hang it over the mantle, saying, ( There, Rachel, hain't I got something pretty for you 8"Ra- chel told Isaac he was getting quite tasty; and when, some time after, he brought home the picture of the Prodigal Son, he thought the old house was furnished complete. The truth was, he had seen some paintings--"Italian scenes," Mrs. Haw- ley called them-hanging up in their parlor, and he did n't see why "American pictures war n't just as pretty." The painter who sold Uncle Isaac his Caroline, laughed in his sleeve, so he told somebody afterward; he was glad to get rid of it, he was afraid he could n't find any body fool enough to buy it. Yet Caroline and the Prodigal Son looked as beautiful as   486           OLIE. ever in Uncle Isaac's eyes. They huug in their old places, where they had hung for years; the tear was still on Caro- line's cheek. "How natural every thing looks," thought Mary, as Aunt Rachel went slowly about getting dinner for the hungry trav- elers. The old blue plates in the kitchen cupboard shone as bright as ever, as they stood up in rows on the well-scoured shelves. Wreaths of apples, nicely pared and quartered, hung from the beams overhead; over which were a few pans of dried blackberries, and chestnuts just picked. The floor was newly sanded; the very same old wash-basin hung by the door, where Driver-poor Driver! who had done his last churning--lay basking in the sun. The same flowers, cards, and magazines ornamented the table in Aunt Rachel's best room. Thelgilt eagle over the glass was as carefully shielded as ever by the branches of as- paragus; here and there a patch ornamented the old striped carpet. Tabby walked as quietly about, as if she had never com- mitted a petty larceny or murder in all her life. After dinner they all went out under the shade of the old fapple-tree, where Richie first saw Olie. By the side of the old tree was a promising young apple-tree, which Isaac told the doctor he might plant in his own garden when he went to housekeeping. A few tears came to Mary's eyes as she saw the little stone over Charlie's grave; tears that came with the recollection of her early sorrow; and then a bright smile chased away the tears, as she saw close by her side the friend who so kindly shared and soothed this first grief, and who had promised   now at the altar to share every grief her heart should feel until separated by death.-  The sun was sinking behind the western hills; its lingering rays, as they fell on that old farm-house, were not warmer or. more beautiful than the light of hope and happiness dawning in those young hearts. The doctor and his wife left quite early, as they were anxious to reach Mr. Wilder's before the next night; so the time must be' improved--riding in the moonlight evening would be very pleasant; they were going to make Anna Wilder a visit; so promising to visit the farm-house once every year, they departed., This little visit was a pleasant episode in Aunt Rachel's dark life; she had felt quite lonely for the past year, since Aunt Betsy was buried in the little burying-ground on the hill. After the doctor had been gone some- time, and she went about getting supper, what should Aunt Rachel find close by her teapot on the pantry shelf, nicely done up in brown paper, but a large double woolen-shawl, fine, heavy, and warm. On one corner was pinned a card, which Isaac read aloud: "To Olie's Aunt Rachel, from Doctor Richie."       / "If by an apple Adam  lost his Paradise, it was under an apple-tree that I first found my Eve and Eden, too," said Dr. Leehentz, as he clasped Mary fondly to his heart, and looked back once more at the old farm-house. * ,    CHAPTER LIV. RE TRIBUTION. Oh, retribution! stern and dark, Thou com'st sometime to all; Oft dost thou toss the spirit-bark, Long ere the shroud and pall. ArTER riding till quite late in the evening, the doctor and his wife stopped at a small country tavern to get lodgings for the night; it was an unpromising-looking building, just under the side of a steep mountain; there were no houses near it; it was on the regular stage route, but few travelers stayed there at night; they stopped to change horses, and get a hurried meal, and then went on-on to the next taverm, which'was the usual stopping-place for the night, where the accommodation for " man and beast" was better. The landlord was a plain, kind-hearted man; he came promptly out, and down the rough steps, as the doctor drove up to the door; he offered to see to the horses until they were ready to drive on again. "We are not going to drive on again to-night," said the doctor; " if you 'll give us a good supper and a night's lodg- ing, and early breakfast, so we can start Off on our journey in the morning."   The doctor and Mary were soon seated in the small sitting- room of the tavern, where the landlord seemed anxious to pay them any attention they wished. Just before supper, the landlord came in, and addressing the doctor said, "May I be so bold as to ask you if you ain't a professional man, sir .  I believe I have never seen you before in these parts." "What should you take me to be?" said the doctor, smiling. "Why, I should think as like as not you was a doctor or minister, I was kinder in hopes you was a doctor." "Well, sir, I am a doctor by profession." "Well, I wish you had been here afore. Two days ago," said the landlord, "there warn't a doctor to be found near here, and there was a young woman in the house that was very poorly, sir-a Mrs. Dickinson, I think, was her name. She was once pretty rich, Hguess, sir. Well, as I was going to tell you, just four weeks ago, last night, her good-for-noth- ing husband, who said he was an officer in the army, left her here about a week after they came, without a- cent in the world; and so she had to get along the best way she could, as she had no friends in these parts. They say she was a fine lady once, and had plenty of money, but her husband, he drinked and spent it all; but here she was in a pretty bad predicament, you see, sir. Well, she did nothing but grieve for a few days, and she began to think she must do something to help herself somehow--we is all poor, we is here-we all has to work hard. I keeps a little store, which helps along some; -and wife, she can turn her hand to any thing a most; she makes coats, sometimes--little boys' coats--as handy as any   4VU           O L I E. tailor. Well, as I was going to say, sir, it happened we had n't any teacher in our deestrict school; we'd allers had a man teacher, there's so many big ugly boys; and then solme of the little children act as if they'd come out of the woods; you see there's a tannery near here, and all the hands send their children, and there's plenty on 'em, I can tell you; dirty little young ones too. "Well, this woman 'peared to have a pretty good heddica- tion; so I told Sally, says I, ' Sally, I guess this young woman might try that school of ours;' and so she did; she taught two weeks, and then she kinder gave out like, and began to run down very fast. Sally said her heart was broke, and med- icine would n't do her no good; I wish you 'd been here and seen her, sir, maybe you could have done something for her; anyhow, perhaps you could have comforted her a little. God knows she needed it enough, poor thing. "She was crazy sometimes, sir, and in a kind of dream, like, and she'd talk about somebody she called Olie, and scream it out so wildly; it seemed as if that feller-that husband of hers-had bothered her heart, just as a man that did n't know nothin' about music would play with his great rough hands on a very soft instrument with fine strings-chords, I believe the music-master calls 'em, sir. Well, he had touched these fine strings so heavily with his great hands, bringing all sorts of noises out of these strings--chords, I mean-until they'd break, and then when he could n't do no more mischief, he'd throw the instrument away; and so the poor creature's heart seemed stretched up so tightly, you just give it one more touch-a light touch--and it would snap. I am kinder sorry we let her teach that school; I 'spose she was n't strong   enough, and then she did n't like it nother; 't warn't nothin' bad, but then she was so far gone, any little thing would carry her off. If that feller Dickinson had any conscience, I think it will scratch him some when he hears she is gone and buried too. Sally thinks his name must be Olie, she spoke that name so often, and it seemed to agitate her so." "I wish we knew what her other name was," said Mary, sighing; " is n't there some way we can find out?;". Mary seemed now much agitated, as her mind reverted to the clouded morning of the long departed past. She was in a deep study, seeking to find some explanation to this old land- lord's strange eventful story. The name Olie-Olie-Olie, went revolving in her mind, till at last she exclaimed, "Is there nothing, I wonder, to tell us who she was a"I "Oh!" said the landlord, " did n't bhe leave an old book up stairs, Sally?" Sally immediately went up stairs, and brought an old gilt- edged book. Mary instantly opened it, and found Laura written, on the fly-leaf. "Laura who?" inquired Mary, as her countenance grew pale and seemed to express the deepest anxiety. Just then as she was searching the leaves, there dropped fi'om the book an old wedding-card, which was no longer an invitation to the happy festivities of a marriage- day. That was its past history; it had now a present one, as Mary read on it in plain elegant lettering sc Colonel and Mrs. Frederick Dickinson," and on another part of the card the beautifully engraved name of "Miss Laura Brant." And this was really poor Laura Brant who had been buried two days before they had reached the tavern. Letters found in her trunk proved beyond all doubt that she was the daugh- ter of the late Mr. Francis Brant, and had married a dashing   "2           OLIE. young officer only a year previous, who had squandered her fortune, and broken her heart. "Who hath made us to differ?"2 thought Mary- Leehentz, as they left the spot, to which Laura's sad history had given such mournful interest, 5Who hath made us to differ . There is but One. "And oft His paths have midnight for their shade, He leaves to man, the ruin man hath made." 'T was Laura who had shrouded Olie's early life in dark- ness; that Laura whose sun had set in night, just as her charms had reached their too radiant zenith. While to Olie, hope's bright Aurora, with rosiest fingers, was opening the golden portals-the dawn of a day whose sun should no more go down, until it calmly set in the golden west, to wait the dawn of an immortal day, which knoweth no sun, nor moon, nor the light of stars, for the "Lamb is the light thereof."   CHAPTER LV. OL I E AT  H M E  AT LAST1 "' It comes at last, the honr so long awaltedr, T'he hour that weary hope so long foretold; It finds the streongth of passion unabated, It mcets a love that ne'er grew faint nor cold. 'Forgotten i the dull and achlng sadness, Forgotten all the painful dreary past. I hear Ihy words, I see thy glance of gladness, I press thee, darling, to my heart at last." Two years had Anna lived in her little cottage, and very happy years they were. Onrce a year the doctor and Mary mnade her a visit. Mary  Lehecntz retained all the simplicity   of poor Mary Martin, who struggled through so many difficulties in her try- ing Elmville life. Hler elegant simp licity of manners, her true kindness of heart, would hlave made her welcome every where in the most refined society, had not her wealth and position given her claim to it. Her husband would often playfully allude to her first call on him, when she so timidly asked for his clothes. - She moved in the hifghest circles with (dignity and grace, ,she met often in society old friends of her fathher who always noticed the strong resemblanet, bietwreen the acecomplished and gifted man, and his beautiful daughter,   "4           OLIE. A few months of happiness had wrought a great change in the delicate fair looking girl. No longer caged in a small smoky house, with no guide or household companion but an irritable old woman, her daily occupation least suited to her taste and ability-like a flower, long drooping on some bleak mountain side, beyond the reach of gentle dew or refreshing .shower, suddenly trans- planted to a pleasant garden, and carefully watched and tended by kind hands, Mary Lee had, as if by magic, ex- panded into the beautiful woman-bloom  on her cheek, light and hope in her eye, gladness in her smile, and sun- shine in her heart. Hope had given to her step new lightness; she dwelt in a home where flowers lingered long and snows came seldom. She could look back now, and see that all things worked for her good. The interval between her first. parting with Richie and meeting him again, seemed like a dark and troubled dream. With strange tenacity had she treasured every scene con- nected with him in early childhood; she had hoarded up his early words of kindness and consolation; she had prized the little old-fashioned locket he gave her under the apple-tree, as her dearest earthly treasure; she had kept it, as he bade her, till he came back, little dreaming that absence would be so long. In her long, dark, tiresome way, there had been no bright spot like those early communings with Richie. She had given up all hopes of ever meeting him again; but she could not forget him. The darkness of other later years had only thrown a brighter halo around those happy days with him at the old farm-house.   OLIE AT HOME AT LAST.         495 She had lived over those days in dreams; she had seen that old apple-tree waving its branches above her head, and more than once in the still night, had one watched closely her parted lips in sleep, they might have heard Richie's name breathed gently in slow, sweet tones. And he had come at last-come and given her that some- thing better promised in early boyhood; and that was a loving, manly heart; it was all her own; he had promised to-be a loving, faithful, and devoted husband, till they should be separated by death. It was a dream no longer-it was all reality. On a little table in her own room, in their pretty new house, was a box, a green-box, with glass cover; it looked too plain, Bridget thought, for such, a pretty table; but Mary would have it there, where she could see it as she sat at work; it was the box with the magnetic fish, Richie's first gift; it looked very pretty to Mary, though Bidget thought it queer to keep such a " small little old box" so carefully. The doctor had gone to an intelligence-office for help, and there he saw a large, honest-looking girl, who wanted to be cook in a small family. "That's the girl for me, I guess," thought he. So, looking hastily over a " good recommendation," which she placed in his hand, he told her to come to his house that day. He told his wife he had obtained a good cook, he was sure, by her face. Mary smiled; gentlemen are so often apt to be mistaken about help; and he had sent home three already, who did. n't know'any thing about boiling potatoes or making bread.   90U           OLIEo. "He had succeeded well at last," Mary said, when she found this was the very same Bridget who had lived with Mrs. St. John, and given her the only home she then had. Yes, it was the identical Bridget; there was no mistaking that round, rosy face. Poor Bridget! she was so inexpressibly happy, "It was no wonder," as Mary said, " that she should have put so much pepper in the soup that day for dinner, and burn the biscuit almost black for tea." If it had n't been for Bridget, Mary said, " she would never have gone to John Martin's, and if she had n't gone to John Martin's she would never have lived in Elmville, and never have seen Richie again-perhaps never have lived in her own happy home. She might have been early consigned to the home for the paupers, or been a homeless wanderer in the wide world." Bridget was unlearned in the laws of science; nor had she ever watched the leadings of Providence ; she was incapable of reasoning philosophically upon the mysterious connection between the past and the future; she deemed it "raal good luck" that had brought her back to dwell in the home of the " small little childer" she had left so unwillingly, under the rough and cheerless shelter of John Martin's roof. How strangely are the beings we deem most insignificant, often linked with our highest earthly good, and the instru- ments of our greatest success-frail and feeble though they are-linked indissolubly and necessarily in the great chain of events which leads us to peace and joy on earth, and fastens us to the throne of the Eternal! A wayfaring pauper's hand guided by the Omnipotent will, may open for us some secret spring in the door of hope,   unclose the bright portals of a cloudless future, beneath whose clear calm light, the ghosts of a long-troubled and grief-haunted past all vanish In the dark grav of buried years, Baptized with penitence and tears. Reader! if any tear-dimmed eye chance to fall on this sim- ple story of poor Mary Lee-if thy life seem  all ,dark and hopeless, and thou art lingering in the shadow of a long night of grief; if love, and hope, and peace, all fail thee- thy sympathies unshared, thy pgverty unmitigated-thyself unknown, thy losses and crosses uncounted-remember there is One, far above all, who sees the lost wanderer from the path of peace, the exile from life's joys and hopes-who can, without impoverishing his vast resources, give thee, even now--hearts to love, homes to cherish; means to do all the good thou wiliest-even now, a still small voice may be whis- pering in thine ear, "Weeping may endure for the night, but joy cometh in the morning." From tomb of hope blest Faith shall spring, In sorrow's night peace plumes her wing; Aye, love, and hope, and peaoe, are given That soul who calmly trusts in heaven.   CHAPTER LVI. "ZZIE. Wrho-se hand hath swept the wondrous chords with melody divine, And e'en such witching sweetness poured in every word and line; For weary days and months I 've sought the myst'ry to explain, Yet all my toil availeth not-my search is still in vain. "Do MAKE a long story short;" said Mrs. Wilkinson to Mrs. Reed, one day. "I hate this spinning things out so long. I want to know what became of Ella Harwood and Lizzie Warner, I always took such a fancy to her ever since I saw her at the examination. Laura Brant, they say, is dead; Olie, that little Olie, that we lost track of so long, is n't Olie any more; but she is married, and married well, and they call her Mary Leehentz. What strange things do happen in this world! and then Anna, too, Anna Harwood, that 'country schoolmistress,' as Laura Brant called her, is married to Arthur Wilder, the very man Laura tried so hard to get, before she married that rascal Dickinson; I never liked her any too well, but she certainly was too good for him; poor thing, I guess some of her high notions had to come down. "I wonder how Wilder happened to marry Anna Har- wood; how he came to stray way off there to that country   village after a wife; for some reason or other, people say he never waited on Laura Brant after Mrs. Boland's party, and nobody believes she'd be fool enough to give Arthur Wilder the mitten; he is so popular with all the girls in the city, but he's done well, she's worth a fortune to any man, any day. "(But what's become of that little Ella Harwood and Lizzie Warner? I always think of them together since that. examin- ation. "I knew all these young- people when they were children, and I keep a kind of watch over them-all but Clara Har- wood; she went off to Uncle John somebody's, and I 've lost sight of her entirely.", "Ella Harwood," said Mrs. Wilkinson, " is still at school, at Miss Pyncheon's; you know she keeps that seminary that's so much cracked up in the papers. People say she writes some of those high-sounding puffs herself: I don't know how true that is ; you must n't believe all you hear, Mrs. Reed. "Well, Ella goes to Miss Pyncheon's school. Lizzie War- ner goes and takes lessons in something a few hours a day; she is a firm friend of Ella's. Sally says she has seen them together a great deal. Lizzie used to be a great belle; and she 's as handsome as a picture. If you have n't Seen her since the examination you 'd think she has improved-she Is splendid looking now. But she don't go in gay society as much as she used to; she joined the church a year ago; she is'n't as impulsive as she was. Sally says she believes if there is a conscientious girl in the world it's Lizzie Warner. Sally observes a great deal, though she don't talk much. Lizzie gives away a great deal, more than her mother dreams of, I   500           OLIE. guess; but her. father almost worships her. He is a man of the world, they say, but he respects all Lizzie's feelings, and gives her as much means as she wants to do good with." "I guess there's no making her mother over," said Mrs. Reed. "No," said Mrs. Wilkinson; "she's the same, precisely; she would as soon lose her arm, I do believe, as infringe on the least point of etiquette." "There was another girl I saw at the examination," said Mrs. Reed;!"I wonder who she was; she sat next to Ella Harwood most of the time; she was dressed in deep mourn- ing, and had such very black hair. I asked a good many who she was, but I could n't find out." "That must have been Mary Sherwood. She 's a parlor boarder at Miss Pyncheon's. Her father has just returned from Europe. Mary has been very kind to Ella; somehow she took a fancy to her to begin with, and, I believe, has given her a good many pretty presents. That gentleman we saw in church yesterday was Arthur Sherwood, Mary's brother, a young lawyer." "He 's homely as a hedge-fence," said Mrs. Reed, "if he is Mary Sherwood's brother." "He is n't handsome," said Mrs. Wilkinson, "but he's a very smart lawyer, and has made many fine addresses in this and other cities." "The more you see him the better he looks; he certainly has handsome eyes," said Mrs. Wilkinson; " and the more you see him the better you like him. He writes for some periodi- cal occasionally; he writes beautiful poetry, they say, but he never signs his own name."   Mrs. Wilkinson was proceeding to tell what she thought was a gTeat secret, when the ladies were interrupted in their conversation-Mrs. Reed had a call from an old friend. As Mr. Reed said, she liked to watch the young people. Lizzie Warner and Mary Sherwood were intimate. One evening Mary spent with Lizzie, she chanced to see one of Arthur's poems copied very carefully, and lying with some loose papers on Lizzie's open folio. "Let me read you this," said Lizzie, taking it up; "it is the most beautiful poetic effusion I have seen; the man who could write that must have a high order of talent. It don't sound like those pieces I have read so often in that paper about flowers, and birds, spring, summer, etc.; it reads as if it came from the depths of a thoughtful soul in some sad mo- ment, when things appear without any illusion. It is so bold, clear, and striking. It has haunted me like a dream since I first saw it. When I hear a piece I like, I long to know the author's name at least, that it may be one of the heart's household words. I write it down in memory's diary, with all those mysterious unknowns whom I hope to greet in another world. "It is a perfect little gem; I found it in a paper the other day, and copied it. I wish people ivho write so well would have their true names given with their poems; I wonder who the author is. He must have a noble soul and fine-toned principles; don't'you think so, Mary?" "You can't always judge correctly of people's character by their writings," said Mary. "A writer may have a faultless ideal of the good and true, yet in his life fall far beneath it, while his written thoughts -glow with such purity and elevated   502           OLts. sentiment, one might imagine their fire kindled at the altar of devotion, while after all it 's only stolen fire." "Well," said Lizzie, "I believe the author of that poem is a scholar and a Christian ; if he is really in practice like some literary characters of my acquaintance, I wish to remain in blissful ignorance of his name." "Very possibly he is," said Mary, " and if not, he may be very plain in his appearance; we girls are apt to have such ro- mantic ideas of poets." "Mine are not very romantic," said Lizzie, "I think the most gifted are very often plain-looking, and beauty in itself is no recommendation to me in a gentleman; if I were queen supreme of the realm of hearts, it would be no passport to my favor." Mary knew all the time that Arthur was the author, and that he had said once, after having spent an evening with Mary at Miss Warner's, that there was nothing about him to attract so fascinating a young lady, he could only aspire to her friendship; his muse, he always said, was his bride; no lady would appreciate him solely for his intellect. Lizzie was spending an evening in Mary's room, and seeing among her other books, one which Mary had had some time- the cover looked old and partly worn-she said, "Let me see that old book, Mary, I like old things ; I expect there are some choice things in it." "' No," said Mary, i" you know I am a very old-fashioned sort of a body, and one of my antiquated notions is, keeping a commonplace book; Alice used to call it my album of thought; Arthur says it is my literary piece box; it has one advantage of which the old box, where mother used to keep   L 1;6 ; Zl .        OUO her patches can not boast, the articles are all new; perhaps I might better say original." "I should think," said Lizzie, " its contents were as various as Pandora's famous box; and to carry out your brother's figure, as well selected -and assorted, as if designed for a liter- ary carpet, on which the most fastidious fancy's foot might tread, after being confined to the circumscribed limits of regu- lar business or common duties." "Really, Lizzie," said Mary, " you have always had the gift of spiritualizing matter, and now I should think you were ma- terializing spirit." "I believe, Mary, there was a time awhen I did nothing but build air-castles and weave day-dreams, and thoughts seemed to me something almost tangible, I would be so absorbed in my reveries. Just at night, we girls would all get around mother and tease her to tell us just what she thought of us, and in what we each of us excelled. When it came to my turn, she would say, and you, Lizzie, you have a good knowl- edge of imaginary things. Fate should have made you a master-builder in the temple of Fancy; some of your recent productions might be laid in its corner-stone.' I never forgot it, Mary, and I consider it a very equivocal compliment. But you have a good many different autographs here; are these articles written in the authors' hands."  "Some of them are," said Mary, " but most of them I have copied?' "Here is something beautiful," said Lizzie, "it begins, "'Sleep, blissful sleep, that softly brings Healing on thy Lethean wings.'   504           OLIE. "I have read it over twice, now see if you don't admire the close: ' Death's sister, men have called thee sleep; Ah, were he but like thee, How welcome to the weary soul Would his stern summons be.' "The versification is so smooth, the meter just suits my fancy i how many more thoughts can be frequently expressed in poetry than in prose, and how much more forcibly too; the poet's license is certainly a fortunate one, and a lawless one too sometimes. But, Mary, there is one line here exactly like one in the piece I copied, the style is the same, and I believe one person is the author of both, or there must be beings in the world with twin-born thoughts and duplicate ideas. There is some mystery about this; it is in the author's hand," said Lizzie, " and you know whose it is. Come, now, do tell me, my curiosity is excited to the boiling point." "I can't tell you now," said Mary, " that is one of my se- crets." "That is too provoking, you are really cruel," said Lizzie, "I have a mind to be a little vexed with you; here I have been trying so long, and hoping too to find the name of the mysterious unknown; and you can but will not tell me; your book is, after all, like Pandora's famous box, you have told me where all the contents originated, yet, after telling me all, you keep one little mystery shut up in its pages." "Lizzie," said Mary; " if you'll promise not to be vexed with me, I 'll show you a little gem I found the other day in a paper, and laid in my drawer; it is called ' Uncle Frank ;' and I should think must have been written by some one who had lost a dearly-loved relative; it is signed 0----; that   mysterious 0---- has troubled me as much as your unknown seems to have disturbed your peace. It is very beautiful, and Arthur says he has seen it copied in two or three differ- ent papers, and its beauty commented on. In one paper, it was signed O . . . "It may be some name having four letters. It is ex- quisitely simple in style, and seems to be the outgushing of a lonely young heart."  .j There were only four in the world who would have known the author of that poem had they seen it; one was the authoress herself, poor Mary Lee; one was Richie, Doctor Richie; and Anna, Anna Wilder; she had seen it one day among Mary's drawings; Mary had written it, and it had been. left in her little folio and forgotten. It was so beautiful, Anna had copied it in one of her letters to Arthur Wilder, and it had been inserted in a magazine, whose editor had given three dollars for the article. With this money, so un- expectedly gained, Mary had purchased the blue dress which she wore, for the first time that Sunday morning, in which she had so much attracted Charles Judson's admiration. So many things had happened since then, Anna had almost forgotten the incident; and the surprise which Mary mani- fested,'when she opened the magazine, and her eyes fell on the lines which she had written one Saturday night, when all alone in her room, and her mind was full of sad thoughts-- thoughts of the past-she had supposed that no eye but her own would ever see them. It seemed so strange to see any thing of her's in print; and stranger still, that any body would read any thing of her's, which, in her estimation, was so full, so very full of faults. :    22   CHAPTER LVII. "OTTIErS LETTER. "Lo! the marvels passing strange Every teeming hour brings, Daily turns with sudden change The kaleidoscope of things." TUPPEL a ANOTHER year had passed.   It was the happiest year of Uncle John's life, he said. He doted on Clara; could hardly bear to have her out of his sight a moment. He had long since bitterly regretted his early neglect of his only brother, and bad sent the widow and children many substan- tial proofs of his interest in them. As the old housekeeper said, he was a long time coming to his senses; but he was right at last; and when Anna entered, for the first time, the pretty cottage which Mr. Wilder had fancied so long, and taken the lease of for two years, she found a letter containing a deed of the whole property, given to her without any re- servation. Uncle John had purchased it very slyly during Air. Wilder's absence; and so determined was he, at any sum, to secure it, that he really did pay a high price. He feared that his presence at the wedding might be to himself, at least, embarrassing, and so he chose this quiet way of ex- pressing his good-will. "As for Ella," he said "she was a   "OTTIE'S LETTER.          507 pretty little bird to think of marrying, so he should have to take her under his wing." Mr. Leland was a great favorite of his; it was quite touching to see how much confidence the old man placed in his instructions. "Mr. Heland seemed every year to become more spiritual," so Mrs. Wood said, and Mrs. Wood was one of the best women in the church. He spent much of his time in his study. He sat there one morning longer than usual, with his books on the table before him, and his blank sheets look- ing as blank as they had three hours before, when he seated himself to search for a theme for the next Sabbath's discourse He laid aside his pen, closed his books, and walked backward nnd forward in his room, as if in deep thought. His thoughts wandered from his books, his large and valuable library, to one little volume, read months ago, which he' could not for- get. He was fond of classic lore; but this little book so full of hidden lore, and which accident had revealed to him, pleased him more; and now he had an intense curiosity to see one more volume, or even one more page, which might, could he see it, be untranslatable, might baffle all his research. In tracing the windings about Uncle John's domain, Clara had once been very serviceable, had given him a valuable key, and now perhaps, in this dilemma, she might assist him. In no mood for writing, the soft south wind seemed to woo him forth into his accustomed walk, where skies were cloud- lessly blue, and the brook laughed on its sunshiny way. It was near Uncle John's; the library-door was open ; and Uncle John coming out as he was passing, urged him to go in a few moments and look at some of his new works which had just arrived; he was going out himself, but would be   508           OLIE. back soon, meantime Mr. Leland could form some opinion of his selection. Mr. Leland passed into the library where Clara was arranging some of the new books; he looked long and patiently at the many volumes before him; and, after some hesitation, alluded to the volume not on any of those shelves, which had filled his thoughts for months; he told her how much he coveted every other thought of the author's; that there was one page which was as yet untranslatable to him, which he longed to read; that she only could interpret it; that it was in her possession alone; that once having read that which, perhaps, he had no real consent on her part to read, he had come as a little child to learn one lesson from the page of her heart, to ask if there was one little blank space where he might write finis; if he might bind it up and clasp it strong, it would bless him in his study, and cheer him at his fireside; his own thoughts would grow holier and happier with such a living, truthful, precious page ever before him. Just then Uncle John came abruptly in, announcing the ar- rival of other guests, stranger guests, to whom he had extended his hospitalities; and then sending Clara off about some prep- arations for their immediate reception, he began eagerly talk- ing about the books, and to ask Mr. Leland's opinion of them, which was not a very satisfactory one, very brief and desul- tory, Uncle John thought, after Mr. Leland had gone. But after long days and weeks of waiting, Mr. Leland won at last that hidden page open to his view, the last long sealed page of Clara's heart, with all its mysteries; and there, he found very faintly written, as if written long-that Clara had long loved, and loved  Walter. Another year had passed in Elmville too, there was still,   V --j- A A a 13  J r JN W T F, R, 508 no school; much they missed Miss Harwood. They began to feel that her life and instruction there were rare phenomena, not soon to be repeated in Elmville. Mrs. Harding felt troubled about Lottie. She was anxious to have her learning something. She had commenced taking French lessons before school closed, and she took music les- sons some time at Miss Pyncheon's. She had a fine ear for music, but she had forgotten all she once knew. Lottie had an uncle living in Philadelphia, with whom she was a great favorite. She was named after her aunt, who had no children, and who was herself a good musician. Lottie's uncle had written her to come and make them a long visit, saying that he had just purchased a new piano, and that there was an ex- cellent music-teacher in the city, Professor Norton, that if she would come, she could take lessons and practice as much as she pleased. He said they were very lonely without any young folks, and aunt said she hoped mother would not decline their urgent invitation. Lottie made herself so useful at home, they could hardly think of doing without her six months, but her improvement in music was a very important consideration, and it was finally decided she should go. After having been in Philadelphia three weeks, she wrote a long letter home, from which we give a brief extract: "Uncle lives just opposite Mrs. Wheaton, who is Mr. Sher- wood's sister. Her niece, Cora Thomas, who was my room- mate, at Miss Pyncheon's, is boarding with her, and receives instruction on the piano and guitar of Professor Norton. She takes lessons in singing of Professor Sobriniski, a Pole, and a distinguished vocalist, of whom I am taking lessons too. Uncle Harry thought it would be   a great advantage to   510           OLIE. me. Cora and I often talk about old times; we see each other every day; she has told me a quantity of news. '"Mrs. Ella Leslie, Mrs. Wilder's sister, is visiting at Mrs. Wheaton's, with her husband; and Mr. Sherwood has suc- ceeded at last in persuading Mrs. Harwood to come and pre- side over his elegant mansion. She was married two months after Ella, and a very suitable match it is, every body says. She is a noble-looking woman. I saw her and her husband the other day at Laurel Hill. Mr. Arthur Sherwood, his sis- ter Mary, and Miss Warner were with them. "Cora says it is a secret yet, a family secret, but I can tell you, mother, that Miss Lizzie has promised to be Mary's sis, ter, and she seems as proud of Arthur's plain yet expressive face, and fine talents, as he is of her beauty and grace. They look well together, though there is a great contrast in their appearance. Their courtship is quite romantic. Cora told me all about it. Lizzie said once she would be willing to risk her happiness with the author of a certain piece of poetry, which she admired very much. It chanced to be a poem of Arthur's, and Lizzie made the remark to Mary Sherwood, and she was taken at her word after all. I have become well ac- quainted with Mary Sherwood; she is a charming young lady. She will spend some time with her old friend Ella. Doctor has hired the elegant house formerly occupied by Mr. Brown, who has one of the, proudest families in the city, and whose daughter Ellen used to make such fun of Ella's plain dress at school. Air. Brown has failed very suddenly, and all their furniture was sold at public auction. "Mary Sherwood will remain with them until her brother's marriage, when she will go with the bride and groom to   "OTTIErS L-E TTER,         " Europe. Doctor and Mrs. Leehentz are going with them too, I believe. Cora told me some of Julie Wallace's history, it is full of incident; I'1 tell you about it when I get home. "Last Sabbath morning I went to church with Cora, Dr. Alexander preached, and a very eloquent sermon he gave us; but I did not hear it all. My thoughts were wandering backward, and roaming forward, and my eyes frequently fixed on the two slips just before me. In the front one sat Mr. and Mrs. Sherwood, and Doctor and Mrs. Leslie; in the one behind it, Arthur Sherwood and Mary, and Miss Warner. A most interesting group they were. Mrs. Sher- wood is my ideal of a Christian lady. Mr. Sherwood is a dignified and noble-looking man. Arthur is a fine-specimen of a scholar and a poet. Lizzie is beautiful and graceful. Mary is gentleness and goodness itself, and I, mother, I know you would add, was a fine specimen of an attentive listener to the good doctor's sermon. "Cora has just been in; she says 'Mrs. Sherwood has htad a letter from Clara, and that Mrs. Wilder has been very ill, and her physician advised a change of air. She and her husband are now at Uncle John's.? Clara said Ishe seemed better when she first came, and now  she has, for a few days, ap- peared worse! They fear she is in a decline. 4 I can't bear to think any thing about it, mother, I always thought she was too good to live, and she was so happy in her new home. I know she has been useful in her life, and she is prepared for Heaven; but I have felt like crying all the time since I heard of it. How much she has done for me; I can never be grateful enough to her for all her kindness, and her counsel. I can never forget her instruction. I hope her   512           OLIE. precious life will be spared, I can not think of her being taken away. Cora says ' she has one dear little girl whom  she calls Mary Leehentz.' I did not intend to send this letter this afternoon, but I want you to know about Mrs. Wilder's illness, and, as Professor Norton is coming in a few minutes, I 'll send it now.  As ever, affectionately yours, ' LOTTIE HARDING." Lottie Harding did not know that Mr. Sherwood was Mrs. Graves' son, the very gentleman who had loved Mrs. Har- wood when she was a poor governess in his mother's family; but it was the same Charles who would never marry or love any body else, until he heard of Anna Harwood's marriage. Mrs. Harwood had met her early friend after many years separation; and, as the light of his home, peace and comfort crowned those days to which she had looked forward as days of darkness. The shadows of care and want were passing away. The dear ones, for whose future she had felt so much anxiety, were happy, and God had guided each of the father- less, early left to His care, to a home of peace. Ella had long since given a sister's love to her new sister Mary. Leaving the early home was an exodus of tears, but in faith, through a wilderness of sorrow, as strangers in a strange land, had they wandered-yet, through green pastures, had the good Shepherd led them to a sunny spot, where love, shielded from sorrow, and sympathy, kind and constant, added joy to the most blissful moments. Still from the mother's heart went up the fervent prayer for those she loved, and anthems of grateful praise to Him who doeth all things well.   -........,.   u .Di How beautifully now, on looking back, had all the shades of sorrow blended! All dark as they once seemed, formed part of that perfect and benevolent plan in all things work- ing for her good; every line traced by the pencil of care, every furrow made by trouble's heavy hand, now, all seemed heralds of those beautiful clusters of blessings sent by a father's hand, as a type of the promised Eden to come. In the clearest, brightest, sunniest sky, one stray cloud will often linger; so, when life's horizon is brightest, one darkened hope may dim its light. A thousand flowers may spring up in the life-march to glad the pilgrim's heart; yet one cold breath may wither some fair bud long-watched and tended, while sister flowers will droop in sympathy. There is but one sky illumined by no declining sun'or changing moon; one garden where flowers fade not; one flock by the still waters of eternal life which mourns no stray- ing lamb. 22*    CHAPTER LVIII. THE WEARY AT REST, Yet still, yet still, at hush of night, when slumber comes to thee, And from sad memories awhile thy heart perchance is free, Steal not those same soft gentle tones upon thy listening ear? Do not those same bright loving eyes as they were wont appear? AsSOCIATIONS, hallowed and precious, cluster around the old west room; memories of bridal joy and burial woe blend with  the whispers of the evening wind; laughter-ringing tones mingle with the music of the morning birds; echoes of light footsteps fall softly on the ear at twilight time. Fast-passing years had soothed the agony of grief; yet still its shadow rested on the silent walls, as the faint notes of un- forgotten music linger on the ear, mingling with the ceaseless chant of time, the requiem of the young, gifted, and beloved. Young hearts had    long since hushed their beating, and passed to the silent land; but their love and truth rested, like a spirit's hly presence, in the spot where once they throbbed so warmly, beaming in living light in the features art had so skillfully traced. There death and   life had often met in fearful contest; and there, when death, stern death, had gained the victory, young hearts had ached, and  old heads bowed in agony, while shin: ing white-robed ones had met, and borne the happy spirit to   its upper home. Many groups had gathered there, when joy's brimming cup had passed from lip to lip; and there, once and again, a sorrowing band had met in sobbing sympathy to kiss cold lips farewell, or lonely watchers kept their vigils around the uncoffined dead. But not to bow in agony over the dead had a group gath- ered once more within the walls of the old west room. There was a look of life and joy, as if the sun were glad to shine through the open windows, through which the fairy-like blos- soms of the delicate vine gleamed out from the shadowy leaves-a beautiful emblem of those pure spirits, whose short life on earth only proves how dear and precious God's gifts can be, and how soon the place thereof may know them no more, though they be never so closely clasped and shielded. As Clara moved noiselessly about, she was grateful and happy; she was no longer alone. Arms that in childhood clasped her neck, were onto more around her. Brief years had hurried by--years of care and sorrow, and years of pleas- ure too; and now the sisters were again together. Mr. Leland often joined their group at the Hall, and very pleasant were the hours passed in the old west room. Uncle John and Mr. Wilder were much encouraged by symptoms of apparent improvement, and by the assurance of the physician that a change of air would probably prove of great benefit, and many delightful walks were taken, and many an excur- sion planned for the benefit of the dear invalid; and fondly did they all hope that the glow on Annals cheek was a token of returning health. But only for a few weeks could the af fectionate circle cherish this pleasant illusion. Nothing seemed of lasting benefit.   516           OLIE. There are many long, dark days, when the sun hath vailed his face, and, ere he sinks in the golden west, sheds forth some cheering beams, more beautiful than the splendor of his unclouded noontide. So, brighter than its morning glow, is oft the setting spirit's radiance, cheating loved ones with the hope of a long day of returning health; while the bright hue of the cheek, and the clear light of the eye, are only sure heralds of the sunset of the soul, which hath a beauty and glory as evanescent as the beautiful drapery of a clouded sun- set. There is oft a quicker bounding of the pulse ere it beats its last; a looming up of the spirit ere it fades from our com- muning; a closer clasping of heart-strings ere they be severed forever; a firmer binding of the silver cord ere it be loosed; a wondrous strength in the golden bowl ere it be broken; and brighter gleam they that look out of the windows ere they be darkened forever. Anna grew weaker and weaker--she hardly had strength to move about the house during the day, and at night she was hot and feverish. Soon long hours of rest must be taken, ere night came; sometimes she would sit in the chair, bolstered up with pillows. The blue veins looked larger in the pale thin hands. She had been the life of home; and now, though she could no longer move around, she would follow with her mild, beautiful eye, her beloved husband as he went slowly about. Soon she rested on the couch all day--she was too weak to sit up longer. How lonely it seemed at the table the first time she was not there-in silence the meal was taken. And yet, no great overwhelming fear came over the house- hold-she was only a little weaker; she might yet get better.   She had always some good reason to give for the least change. Perhaps last week she sat up too long, and lost strength, or this sudden change of weather may have given her cold; she 'll be better when the warm weather comes; the medicine seems helping her now. Who does not know how very hard it is to watch a dear one slowly wasting away, the eye growing brighter, the smile sweeter, and the voice lower, slower, and more musical, the sufferer unconscious of the slow progress of decay, talking of returning health; you listen with a sad smile as you look at the pale face, then go away to hide your tears. Autumn came and went, and winter covered the green earth with its snowy mantle; and then for long weeks the dear sftf- ferer lay, and those about her knew the winter of death was coming on, and stealing the bloom from her cheek, and soon the life-tide would move slowly and faintly 'neath its icy hand. Anna always loved flowers, and when winter's reign was over the outer world, some bulbs of rare flowers were purchased by her husband and planted in little pots placed by the window. How she watched them day by day, and how pleased she was when finally the little green leaves appeared! Every morning they were brought to her bedside that their nightly progress might be seen; and each new leaf was gladly welcomed. Precious bulbs they Were, living and growing in mournful contrast to the sad crushing and withering of hopes death was preparing for that circle; as the snow had gone, tiny buds were putting forth, yet still fading was the flower in the sister wreath. The buds gradually began to swell and the leaves expand, as if grateful for the fresh water and warm sun- shine. But no tears of sympathy or sunshine of affection   518            OLIE. could restore to health and vigor that frail flower which would bloom no more; nothing could revive its drooping energies. How beautiful these rich clusters looked! they opened wide their petals in the sunlight, and one by one they withered, all save a little stalk of the white hyacinth, a beautiful type of one who loved them, who lay like a drooping flower. The petals were closing no more to expand. Pale hands were folded, no more to be extended in cordial greeting. The withered white blossoms were swayed by every motion, as they hung on the stem, lifeless, their beauty almost gone. So, like a vine, had the dying one clung around iher hus- band's heart, closely and tenderly; yet the cold hand of death had come, and the tendrils were unclasped and almost severed. It was a mournful sight, those faded flowers; and sadder  was the thought the eye could soon rest no more on that flower which would grow forever beautiful in that bright bet- ter land. Long lashes vailed forever those eyes radiant in death ; they Closed like flowers at set of sun. A celestial smile lingered on the beautiful features. Anna slept, but she would wake no more. Only a little while ago she was near, very near, how fondly she looked on all about her. And now it was all over; she was far, far away; she had another home up among the bright stars. As Clara lingered by her side, that very, very lonely night, "Will she not still be near me to bless me, to cheer me? Can I never, never feel her presence here again?" she ex- :claimed in agony, as she kissed the pale forehead good-night. "yFe shall go to her, but she will never return to us," said Walter, drawing hei gently away. "May the mantle of her   patient faith and her holy resignation, fall upon us; the night is far spent; in a little while we shall open our eyes on the resurrection morning." Poor Clara felt as if a new link bound her to heaven; as if the world was of very little consequence, and when all alone in her room, the "bursting heart poured forth itself in prayer" -then came that torrent of tears, that gush of uncontrollable grief, so great a relief to the burdened heart. The dear one needed no more care-she called forth no more sympathy now-she was gone-away from her poor protection, " she folded her pale hands so meekly5 and spake with them on earth no more," but the living were' the suffer- ers now. Why had they not said more to her when with them-so many, many words of tenderness they might have spoken. Oh, how much the aching, bereaved heart will-task itself with regrets! Many days' suns had risen and set on the new-made grave. Tears had fallen upon it. Many had been there to weep. Even Uncle John felt her loss deeply. Clara was left alone with Memory. Every scrap of paper bearing any trace of the beloved hand was carefully sought, and kept as a priceless treasure. Old letters, some written in girlhood's gleesome spirit; then those penned when father died, and others writ- ten on the old high-desk at Elmville school, in every line breathed the Christian's happy spirit; there were touching allusions to early days and childhood's associations, varied with sprightly accounts of present duties; then there were first reports from the young wife- and housekeeper, all bearing- the impress of a sunny heart. As Clara's eye rested on these touching expressions of affection, these beautiful exhibitions   520           OLIE. of Christian character, the dear one seemed once again before her. In her letter to Mary Leehentz, informing her of -Anna's death, she says:- "I knew she must die; her eyes were too bright, her voice too sweet, her smile too ethereal. I loved her daily more and more, as I saw her wasting away. "Old friends would come in often, and hope that I would be resigned to my great loss, prepared for the coming change, but I realized it not "It was enough for me to see her, to be near her, to talk with her, but not of death; that almost broke my heart; we talked of those we loved on earth, and of those who had passed away to a home in heaven. "I had often said to myself 'She must die ;' but I felt not the meaning of those terrible words till she was gone. I had seen often the pale face of the dead, and heard the tolling bell, but not till I saw the cold, white brow of the beautiful sleeper did I realize how broad and deep was that dark river of death that parted me from the heart that had beat close to my own so long. I gazed on that form, shrouded for the grave; that weary sleeper that had longed for rest, was at rest now. "That pale hand had wiped away so many of my bitterest tears, but it was powerless now; my grief made no impres- sion on those dear, closed eyes; those ears sealed forever; that heart so cold, so hushed; I called, but she answered not Again ; I kissed those dear lips, but there was no caress; and in all the wide, wide world there was no voice like her's." "I can not make her seem really dead-gone forever; my *   dear, precious sister, the world is dark without her; she is linked with all the past; how nobly she exerted herself when we were in affliction; how constant her interest in all about her. When I am alone, and twilight shadows gather about me, I feel as if it must be a dream from which I will awake, as if I shall again take her hand in mine, as if she must ' come and sit beside me.' Every thing here reminds me of her. I find myself often going to the west-room to see if she wants any thing; it seems as if I must do. something for her. Oh, Mary! it was a precious privilege to be able to minister to her wants. j     4 "She suffered very much, but she was very patient. My heart has often ached when I have looked at her pale, thin face, and seen in hours of pain that sweet smile resting on her lips. "There are places in the heart for all those we love, no matter how many new ties are formed. Each dear lost. one makes a little grave in the heart; memory rears a white stone, whose inscription is never effaced by time; and affection plants the tearful cypress and  sympathetic willow, whose green no winter's cold or tempests wrath can fade-the fadeless willow of the heart will keep fresh till that heart is laid beside the wept, lost one. "These little graves may be surrounded by living loves and hopes; but there they are, silent monuments, but enduring; little meek buds of resignation spring up around them, gar- lands of faith twine round that unsculptured marble, which no chiseler's hand hath touched, none save the cold hand of the silent messenger from the voiceless land who placed it there, it may be long years ago.   522           O L I E. "With these tombs in our hearts, we go out and mingle with the living; we hear the sweet strains of melody, and try to join, till some familiar notes fall upon our ear-notes we have sung with the loved, lost one; and we hurry away from the happy hearts about us, to turn aside and weep. "I have written this in sight of that little church-yard on the hill. I can see the tree that marks her grave; the cold rain is falling on that new-made mound, and tears fall like rain upon my cheeks as I write. I am in the west-room. I am sitting in her favorite seat. "I have received letters of condolence from many within a few days, from some of her old pupils, who trace their first serious impressions to her. I think few have lived who had so little cause to regret, in their intercourse with others, as she ; she was uniformly kind and Careful of others' feelings; I never knew her to speak a harsh word to any one. It is very pleasant to me to hear her praise, and grateful praise too, from so many lips. Many will mourn her loss; there will be a vacant place in many a warm heart's fireside; but those who have clung to her from childhood, to whom her life has been a perpetual blessing, her words of kindness, and sym- pathy, and comfort linger on their ears; the calm influence of her gentle presence rests upon them, and they are des- olate. "Oh, Mary! 'nothing can take the place of the lost love of a sister.' I almost feel once more the fond clasping of those kind arms; the warm caress on my cheek; the fond pressure of the hand. How much interest she has always manifested in my welfare! I remember when a child, she used to take me off alone with her to pray; she is gone, she   THE WEARY AT REST.           623 is with me no more, yet the music of her voice still lingers on our ears. We miss-her airy footstep, Her eye of love so light; f,   .   And her smile of warm affection Hath faded from our sight. "I know, dear Mary, I ought to be very grateful for her gentle and happy release. I would not call her back from mansions of glory; a cloudless sky is o'er her; her life and death were perfect poetry. I can not look now at the flowers she so much loved; they are touching reminders of our loss. The last one blossomed before she died-a little sprig of the white hyacinth. She watched for days the unfolding of the delicate buds; she had loved them in life, so we laid them away together. We laid her 'neath the willow, With gifts of summer hours; -But we know her spirit dwelleth In a land of fairer flowers. "I have found touching pieces of poetry among her papers, some, written in early youth, full of deep feeling, some ad- dressed to me; nothing ever escaped her eye, as the cares of life pressed upon her. She seldom wrote, unless to express sympathy for some dear afflicted one, and many an aching heart her words have soothed. "She wrote little during her illness, but a few days before she died, she asked for a pencil and paper, and I have since found in the leaves of her Bible on a little slip of paper, written with a trembling hand, some lines, which are, I presume, the last she ever wrote.   524            o LIE. "I shall copy and inclose them in this letter, that you may have something to remind you of her last moments; they contain so many of the thoughts she so frequently expressed to me during her illness; they breathe the same Christian spirit she always manifested. She has gone to a land wlhre there are no more trials, no more anxious fears; her life was short, yet useful; she had begun to enjoy life's dearest ties, when she was called to her Father's home on high. Her frail form was often racked with pain, and after long hours of suffer- ing, she would say to me with peculiar emphasis, ' How de- lightful the thought, Clara, that " there the weary are at rest." THE WEARY ARE AT RE ST. This is a troublous world, a world of care, Where sorrows, trials, journey by our side; With every blissful hour some woe has share, In every favored spot some ills abide. But in the better world, the mansions of the blest, My heavenly Teacher says, "The weary are at rest." We're busy, hurried here, we come and go, And go and come, with scarcely time for thought; With startling rapidness our moments flow, Till to the end of mortal life we 're brought. But with no heavy burdens there are souls opprest; In bliss without alloy, "The weary are at rest." We're anxious and uneasy now, in fear Lest something thwart a loved and cherished plan; Lest something rudely sunder ties most dear, Or interrupt the bliss but just began. But there with glad fruition is the soul possessed; Fast by the living streams The weary are at rest." Here we have suffering days, and oft a night Of weariness, when Time goes slowly by;   THE WEARY AT REST.            525 Nor ease nor rest come with the dawning light, Perchance worn out, we lay us down to die. But there no sickness enters, Death-is not a guest; Tears are all wiped away: "The weary are at rest." Then let us journey on our darksome way, Resolved to wean our hearts from world like this; To make God's glorious promises our stay, And anchor hopes within a world of bliss. Let us delight to execute God's high behest, Until He comes to call us where the weary rest. In sorrow we will joy, we 'll check each sigh- The cup our Father giveth us, we 'll drink; 'Within His arms in sweet submission lie, And tread the path marked out, nor fear nor shrink. We'll suffer, labor here, and deem us richly blest, If when our work is done, we " enter into rest." THE END.    
         
       
   
