
    ----CITATION----
        M'Gaw, James F. (1823-1872). Philip Seymour, or, Pioneer Life in Richland County, Ohio .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7152
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Philip Seymour, or, Pioneer life in Richland County, Ohio 
            
               a
r'
i
.
,.
t,
's  .
1

FOUNDED ON

FACTS

BY   REV. -JAMES       . Ys ~   W
AtUTHOR OF "TPIkh' TMIRE$SSEP SEAMAN,9"
MANSFlIO
PURIS 11 ED BY R. BRINI 14)FI
W1ERA11 STEAM P1WS. PI 1i .

PHILIP SEYMOUR,
OR
OHIO.

I I

+  'r
si                                1            +
c i      r

3
-,                         ey
t
r                                         3
,-
".; r ,r

.  ".,                    _,
=                            _   :
"          -_.  =


[Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1857, by Brinkerhoff &amp;
Day, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.]
T~
6


fj ,  r  '  ,   . '        *f ,af J f l _ (

_ Y r Q~~r' y  .{ S  "'4"*  l
i4'r' '  ,    .'  x   +.  ,i '      t
-  4y + ^ 1 ~'  st t  +f ;ftvt "  't-' Y"}h ftc  , +_.  S
f  ,4  '4;n\ X 0J{ "  %f lI-    '4  l   Y(  '
'  ? r ;  v £ "  "  ' "'  Yzn ,'  [     (' -
PA    jT

4     !           4   _  z It  ,  .
{  " "  ,  '-       f   y!  (  ,V fir'  , '  ,
Toll
!,  i " g r  ,  ,,  : i  . F" .), .xt e   ,sJ ., r ,  4  .

'                 ,,
;j.
_.. ,
" -_s
_     ;'

V ,,,

INTRODUCTI2
The year 181constitited an important ris s in the io r
of Ohio. The war of this period, opened to ems tio s.nd
enterprise, the  great area west'   6the Alle  es. The
ai-mies st out to battle with Indians ad other"  ofs,fo e
banksa of the Wabash, theIllinois, the Detrotth  e4 t
Miami of the Lakes, and other rivers, opened forobsevatiod,
attractive scenes for settlement.
Ohio particularly, at this period, was looked 'upon as the
garden of the West, Prior tos the war but few setttments.
had been made in the North-Western region: but as soon as
peace was made, a coxitinual tide of emigration was seen
moving westward.
At the period of the opening of on narrative, the territory
now comprised in Richla~nd Ahland, and Morarw counties,
was almost an unbroken wilderness. Th  present .h}i-rng
City of Mansfield then contained only two or three }cabins and
a couple of block houses, which were erected in the tonth
of September of this year. There was also a cabin on the
Barkdoll farm, and a block house at Beams now C  bell')
mill., There *ere  few farms opened along the' B a k  irk,
and a few at Lexington, and along the Clear Fok' Supplies
of provisions &amp;c., were',lpacked fromi Mt.  Veron Knox
county, on horseback, a feat attended  ith no' rte : nger
as the wilderness then was tenanted 'by Ili ns and wil
beasts.
The Indian tribes holding possession of Ohio at this t'wer
were the Shawnees, Wyandots, Miamis, Pinkashaws,      1S a+
wares, Eries, Winnebagoes, and some portions of the, '
Nations. The Shawnees are said to be the oldest inhabitants
this State.

0

'.            +    t
t '         y1  "  ' 1 i
A


INTRODUCTION.
Among the tribes which inhabited this region of Ohio,
were the Delawares and Wyandots. A settlement of Dela-
wares existed at Greentown, on the Black Fork, and one at
Jeromerille, now in Ashland county. These Indians professed
friendship for thewhites, andi up t01 18'2they had lived
amicably with 14hni.
Among the Indian chiefs friendly to the American cause,
was Captain'Pipe of Jeromeville, who previous to the treaty
of Greenville in -79,was the most inveterte enemy ofrthe
whites.        .
Tecumerih his b    her the Prohet were the leadingi
s'p's arrae          against the ew 4e settlement ,a
tlroe their influence many a cheerful cabin hearth was
made desolate
'1
h                                            s7   ' '     i  , Fw  }
' .            "                                             {  "  , i
ter, y  1,r                   r    , *
"   { tt ii f        tF  . }    "  f  f   y   ~ r    , r  ur r

4


'  -,  _  ^ '  - $ TiF~ ' ,T   ,  "  _ ,,'   ,  1'TJ~
K~ 'c ."r, C t '   ,,If  ; yt t  7' ,4a r
Il-  . ap -  t"" i rs'' :            I+ "   r  'A A'  Yr
t ;   ,"' n~  , 4 ie's,    ' .
"  gt' .J  "  (  S  "Vi
AJ i  ;, '  ",5'  i tr^ " A.    r r  '  .  '
A  J     g-",  " A  '  a . _ '  i  ,: A '  '    " '  ,  - r  - - .
Iw  't 1r, .   ''Ai VSI';h ~
4'   A'r }  .,;fg  r
r     f ^x  1 A  AAz' A
i            it  /  t A "A,1  ' ' : t    ; - ,
t          +,t r K t  t~a;9  A   A."'."i'" 4 
'  t ""trs-  ,{  r    r  +   '  r+:t. A  ' A,  '
,  " '    _+A ',,    ,    J"  re  ir,  Y
,' A      Lr1.i  h ,  t"tA" . t

'A

'   AA~ "i.~ '' Y,  yf,     : 1Aj  "' 'r  .  r A; '
:t,,A;!  {'  '"' A
="/;'          

Y ii

o,   "      at.     i    '  i  ,
4 J  '   1      .,
2,

IPIHILIP SEYMiU
PIONEER LIFE IN RIOHLAND CO0UN'D  .

CHAPTER I.

ADYETURE OF PHILI SEYMOUR WITH KANiOTCHE AND TH BE4.
fHE sun had just 'i nua ad
pas touring his flood ofrlight,
upon hilltop and valley as Philip
Seymour, ayoungand-gallnt bdk-
woodsnan, 'tated from his c 6 in
upon the banks of the BlackFk,
in search    game n   6lvslier
morning ever, openedupon'the
earth.  , A 'pleasantand r~freslhg
breeze swept gently thrott1 .the
freSt, while the gold'nninoew
rays of the riing ,sur nfllsoftly
Upon. the variegated alandsme,
mantling it-with' thatadiea pyb u-
ty, wpih in a poetic mind awakens4tho  srgefan-*
ties that fAl the soul with; holy i4atippA
he yy dew. had'fallen ding -the uights    drrh
tiny drop, as it }hungn olank dd
pe  a taBrr1

.A  'V

' _                                --  i.
J y,   f y.
'               l,' .% ' 'r
,
.           7                   yt        , i
'
:.

t, - I'.


10

PIONEER Ifl.E

shrub, sparkled in the morning sunbeams, like
a glittering jewel. Overhead gay plumaged song-
sters flitted from branch to branch, pouring
forth their morning _songs, and the wild bee
basked in the sunlight, now sipping the nectar
from the flowers, and now alighting upon some
pendant leaf to pick a dainty morsel. Every ob-
ject around the young hunter was filled with beau-
ty, and inspired his -soul with the most pleasing
emotions, and every sound that fellrupon his ear
was filled with diFinest, sweetestinelody.
Philip was one of the most powerful and athlet-
ic men of his day. None ventured to cope with
him in wrestling, or in other feats of strength.-
His countenance wasradiant with the genial smiles
of a warm and generous heart, while his bright
eye flashed with the impulse of a noble and manly
courage. He was the only son, the joy and pride
of his parents, who bestowed every care their means
afforded upon his moral and intellectual culture.
His parents were old and infirm, and the duty of
supporting them in their declining yearsageyoling
upon him, he becameof necessity a hieit,' and
dearly did he love this:wild and exciting life. H'is
rifle was his constant companion, and lo was never
oredeighted than when in the pursuit of
BFt the Indians, though apparently friend,
were dangerous and troublesome o'rnpaiuno-s
Phliphad read much of their magr es,or als,
andgemuliar ch acteristics, and-his p  ers a1+ob-
ser vation had inspired him with a deep= :-  ed of
the whele race., fct he looked upolr V!.4  a
lowrutal and degraded people, thpii  eminent
characteristic beingthat 'f treachery
Whistling forlhis dog he directed hisseps t.-
wvazy&amp;saArk'antd dismal looking swaxhp, whlch'lay
s6&amp;ne   f&amp; tfles northoP-his re idence.  Hehd
1eardthnt this a nthe retreat of' the wild beasts

1

' 4
"'4

PIONEER - LIFE.

Ut

,S
v

which were yet- remaining in the wi dernes, Qu
nearmIg the edge of the swamp, he secretedhim.
self. behind the trunk of a huge foresttree which
the giant tread of the infuriated wlds had upr9ot-
ed.  Philip hid reniained in this psition but a
few moments, when his attention  was arrestedhy
a rustling noisee among the thick bushes of the
swamp. a [na few moments the bushes parted,aid
a huge blackbear came peerng through. ?hilip,
ing hi8 rifle upon a log, lired, and the .monster
tell, quivering in 'the agonies of death. lmost,
instantly with the discharge of Philip's rice,rang
the sharp crack of another through the forest, the
bail of which struck the tree a few 'inches below
where Philip's rifle rested. At this sudden ated
unlooked for report, Philip started to his feet,aid
looking in the direction from which the sou d pro..
ceeded, discovered a savage, about one, htindred
yards from him in an opposite dir section acio'wthe
swamp, on a small elevation, which' for soire dis-
tance overlooks the swamp.
Philip on seeing the savage sprang behind a
tree, and re-loaded with the utmost speed. The
Indian on seeing him thus preparing for ntaien
counter with. him, threw down his rifle and tona-
hawk, and holding up his hands, ran towardshimt
with as niuch haste as possible, exclaiming; appa-
rently much frightened--" Me no shoot you! me
no shoot at you! me no kill you !"
Philip lowered his rifle,.and the Indiary coming
up, with earnest.gesticulatip s, reiterate4-." Me
,Griy  na ao hurt yqufme like you-nelike all
white fare-Indian andpale face friends -2unt the
deer together-live in same wigwam."..
This  dian's name was Kanotche,and wa  Known
to thi eeymoua family, having often baeenatPhil-
ip's Iehin.
"Kanotche lies !" said Philip, eyeing him sterm-
Jy, "Kangotche would. kill the, white n~ He


PONR' sL .O.

13

*1hld shoot him unawares, like a cowrard"  Kanot-
cKhwiithed and could not endui. the gaze of
Philp. He, however; protested h~ innocence of
esi i intent, saying:r
Kanotche shoot at bear. Kanotche see no white
mAn" --and to prove'his sincerity tendered his as-.
sistance in' securing Philip's prize. Philip, pre-
terilng that his suspicions were removed, accepted
it; and' such portions of the bear %as were of' value
were conveyed to Philip's cabin.  A good supper
s prepared for Kanotche by Kate, Philip's sister,
and the 'Indian departed.
IKate Seymour was an only daughter,-a rosy
cheeked, bright eyed lass, just =eighteen, of a gay,
laughing',disposition, whose glances were incendiai
vies,:dangerous to the peace of the gallant swains
who came within their range.
yfer tha departure of the Indian, Philip narra-
ted the adventures-of the day. " I tell you, Kate,"
said he, in a lively tone, "Old Kanotche was 'a good
medicine for bad blood about that time, he started
:h circulation a little more -lively than I ever felt
lyfo e."
:Ah, but Phil, I'm afraid he meant you no good.
Ilon't 'believe it was a mistake."
:Teith  do I," said Mrs. Seymour: I do wish,
Mr.Saymour, you'would take us all up to Mansfield
till the war is over. Those Indians are so treach-
e,L don't feel safe.
hh! pooh! mother," said Mr. Seymour, "don't
b scared at nothing   Kanotche is , good friend
'ouifanily, and wouldn't hurt Phil for the world,
oinay depend on it."
lWFe.u m'glad if it was a mistake," said Philip,
"tati nance knew where to direc* his bullet bet-
ter than he did.  Indians don't often shoot in
'Wli~wold 'havi become bf ns,' said Kate tear-

fully, "if you had been shot? How thankful I am
you are safe."
" Oh-Harry would take my place, you know.-
you would not miss me."  And Philip looked at
Kate roguishly, and she blushing, jumped up and
playfully boxed his ears. Philip dodged, and they
were just getting into one of their pleasant frolics
when the door opened, and before the astonished
family stood a young emigrant to Ohio,

fV}  j
}

k                            't  H  !,! ' ' ,,.

12

PIONEER LrP$.

i
F           ' FvL      ,r


CHAPTER II.
HENEY MONROE-ADVENTURE WITH lRDIA --JOHNNY ArrLE.
SEEP.
r " Stretched on the ground beneath the spacious sky,
Soft dreamy slumber closed his watchful eye.
"Why Henry !"
"Well I declare !"
Hll     a, is thatou  Why how do you
?   W    did you    o
Such. e exanati          ith    eh the fam-
ily, starts t th   eet, rush   ogreet   henry.
And n'owit is    t   te   edc   to know who
Henry is.      y
Henry Monroe was a young Pennsylvanian Ffrom
the same neighborhood whence the Seymours had'
come   Many a day he had swung Kate upon the
gr  ie swing, near the school house, and many
an  a prudent lad he had punished for presuming
to claim any of Kate's attentions. Thus they grew
u    ' together;- of her he dreamed day and night,
a id when Kate's parents noved to Ohio, he of all
others suffered most at parting. Nor was this re-
gaid unrepaid, for Kate actually thought, him the
 bravest and handsomest boy in school, except
hilip  Since the removal of the Seymours to
hio, Henry had suinoned courage sufficient
to write a letter to Philip, but somehow or oth-
er itvas al to or about Kate, so that Philip threw

itito her slap and saidThere Kate, I did not
mean to open your letter, but 2ank misdir ptedit!"
Andof .course, as Philip would not answer it, com-
on -politeness required Kate to write d say
something in reply, and so *ery thought hemyst
avsyer; Kate's kind lette', and thsu letters  d
pased fersorne months,until Henry thought it49pk
too much writing to say so little, and so one day
he packed his knapsack, strapped it .on li back
and battedd for Ohio, witl enough' mony to eer
a'quarter of. land.= OhQ waa a very ung p lb
placeand people thQughth th t if you stru  it any-
where, you wevere right in 4he neighbrho   of
your friends, though they might be 290 miles off!
So henr: ,instead of steering directly West,. push
ed for Zanesville, ail he ,uppoed he would have
but a day's tramp to fan field athence t Kate's
as her-place mus adoii'lth  town omewhppe !-
He followed up the Maskigau,,ntivl hegame the
White, 'Woman, withot company, t      #s _to the
decla rd good wilo, thendians and a ggQd rige
for: S~aety.  Y
He reached the eoniiueanu of the Whit}oinen
and the 1  kingum j st  b out night  i   'fall. mntde
a fire near a fallen tree,prepared his supperspread
his latiket aid Withulhis kira ack for=hi pillow,
sought repose f irhis weity liibs.  There pas no
o 'andthe deepforesthut~ut thelightofthe
s     While   ing thus, he heard alaw call s.f an
owl and th-ej next- ihitant a stiek oiracked beajte
the tread of   ie anirnl, or athebeing Bf.
l'eetiig thettitis of the Thdiari, it auddenly she
him that th~eFr4iight,.Abe dalgezapproachiratat-
Ira tld y tight of hip Sfref idhstily, he
in th  ig pesitio;de  aehihik iTder  is
blanket with one end resting, on the ki4tpack s ia
ioug~eiby)is hqt ; lie tn .p+ed back    rder
1,theAll ta  anUg
4y sidedear te tep , t rise ruAy for tfd  h

9;

1 IONBE} ' _L F'E


16               PIoNE2IL JAE.
developments. lie had been stationed bat a'few
1onients when he saw the heads of two Indians
peering over the bank. Presently one- of theirs
cautiouly drew himself up and examined Henry's
caup. Satisfied that there had been but one per-
0x1 in the camp and that he was quietly sleeping,
both took deliberate 'aim at the supposed sleeper
and fired. Up to this instant Henry was quite
nervous, but now his nerves were as firm as steel,
and as the Indians sprang-forward with wild whoops
andraised tomahawks hey shot the first through the
head' and before 'the second could recover from his
ast nistre't 'he dealt him'ia blow oveir the scaip
with his .clubbed' rifle.' The savage staggered and
fell but sprang ipand staggered to the bank where
arsecond blow from Henry knocked himinto the
rapid current. This first experience of life in the
wilderness,'nst effectually drove' sleep from
Heny. He strapped his knapsack and following
thenWhiteWoman     ceording to his directions,
travd1ld steadily by the tail, as 'he supposed,
until daylight, when to his alarm he found,?that he
lost. -He had wandered away from the iver,
and the trail which appeared plain enough before,
he now found to Abe oly1 i his imagination. Most
anxiously he sought the river but found no sign.-
At the rising of the: spin. he set his face directly
eastward s-he knew thathe was on the west side
of ;the dver, and travelled about two miles steadi-
1y onward. Finally on ascending}a-high hilt,,he
cli  ed a beech free, looked iaxRously out and
tohis inexpressablejoy fund that jthe great valley
couldnotbe more'han a mile distant.   He de-
eeded,. and withegenewed vigour pursued is
ayhaving carefullylnoted several landmarks for
Guidance.           '    :
In a'fe w'nioniennts, to his great 'surp:se, he
i  thtdglit %ofii'gd  ong brush "enciosi'enwithi
whihb wa afuseo  ot thrifty young'tees' He

PIONEER LIFE..17
looked aill, about .for further improvements, and
wondered greatly at the nursery.reing piaited
there by itself,  Unable to makeany discoveries
he leaped, the enclosure and sat down by a spring
which gushed forth from the bkank en- the --south
side. of the nursery, to drink of its sparklingwa-
ters and refresh himself from the stores in his
knapsack.
"I wonder whose nursery this is," thought he.-
d1 didn't come here by chance, that's sure; 'hllo.
More Indians ? They missed mefor supper and
now they. want me-for breakfasts" Henry dodged
into a thicket' 'of apple trees and listeue  I  a
moment. he saw an inverted tin backet rise up over
.the inclosure followed by a huge ,hock of blkek
wiry hair, After the hair came a pair Yf buksn
breeches with a pair of shoeless feet, st  g
though. A.pair of eyes might be see, burning
black, near the bucket; and Henry decided at once
that beneath hair and breeches somewlerewas a
human being, and he crazy.
The strange creature looked all about anxi$1l -
"Certainly I saw a man come in here," saithe 'to
himself. "I'll call."
"Ha~logtanger ?
"Hallk !" saidlienry, whose eriosity hd pe.
vented his coming out of the' thiket, before.
"I amthefriend of man," said the at;angely ac.
coutred being..'1'.'
"And. I am a man who would like to sigoaid
just now, for I. believe Fim Zhst, a sure ,s y p nare
born. Buwho are you, an    what are
here                           teore:ow L
"My rnamre.i hapman, an hdsis my
pe.1 {cll me Johnny 4p
Jhuine s- ]3 t4 how are  "j.6y"o st, and WIMesr  a e
I aI an m.y wayfromZahesville
Had breakfast ?"".                     ' i

r
+4
Z'!,


A

1B3

IOIi~ EB  L E.

"Not yet," said Johnny, removing his tin buck-
et from his.head.
"Nor . Suppose we have a bite, I have trar-
eled,;Tall night, came pretty near getting de-
oured by .Indians, and I almighty hungry.
Johnny eyed him aniiously ,as 'he spoke of the
Indians, but made no nquiries-untillhaving struck a
fire, he heated some water, threw in some brown
rye and then drawing forth some cold meat and
bread from-a potch that 'he carried, sat down with
Henry who contributed.from 1the stores in his'
knapsack for his sharet}f:The meal with him.
ohny's countenance was troubled. Henry's'
adeiftfrewit''The4Indians seemed to add to feas
ready kindled bfsome previous calamity. Fi-
nallyrecailling=histhoughts he turned to his new
eapionnd Sa.d '
tSo ydou'are going to Mansfield, are you ? Going
to 'settle?  '
,14don't kow 'whether I will or not,  I have ac-
qukintances there."
* "Have you'?  I know everybody there. Who
arethey?"
"TheSeymour family."
"The'eymour family ! Why they'aint Ain Mans-
fild te ey're on the Black ForkIknow them well,
and left themohlW last week" f
;  a-4aid Henry, and his'ulse beat
quiok, for he wanted, to ask after Kate,'and yet he
-   dadot".        e they all well?"
r" Tusbut!iam afraid they arer too fai- out from
the bl16. h ns; .'Tire is trouble breiig among
the Indians, theyhave been so heartlessly cheated
S andg  dbydi &amp;*ites that s iritof revenge
ly~ fdend bythe"ritih. Come, iyou waft'to
go to Seymours'I will go with you aendtg thm
.bW  heiM g~ardfferALhadewyesterdayg which
bedethemno good."

PIONEZER L1F .

Zia
1 1
'.j
{"41tI

19

Henry gladly availed himself of his escort. Fol-
lowing up the streams until they came to the
Black Fork they arrived at the Seymours' without.
adventure, just at night fall.
"Stand back, my friend," said Henry, "let me
pass in first and see if they will recognize me; and
without knocking Henry opened the door.
The feelings of the Seymours' may be better
imagined than described;' especially Kate, who
could not control her bounding. heart and cause it
to "down" at her bidding, and throwing herself
into the arms of Ienry-.--that's enough, let teer be.
Johnny Appleseed figited around outside happy
at the happiness within, and looking for the -
ment to come when he could step in with proprie-
ty and enjoy the greetings with them.
Finally Henry saying that he had not eone alohe
opened the door and J ohnny to whoim the Sty-
niours' were strongly           in

JOffiNV ' APPLES ?f COOKING HIS SUV, 4 .


PLWI~flR.~ ~E&amp;fl~

CHAPTER IIL
RCAPH CAL SEETCH OF JOHNNY APPLESE.
A. Jpbny Applseed was a veryremarkable
personage, identified with the early history of
RiBchand, and as he played unimportant partT du
ringthe War of 1812,it it proper that before we
prai'edfarther that we should. sketch him,4that
our readers mayknow his character ;and his pecu-
liarities and the more fully understand the allu-
sions in our narrative
Johtn1y Appleeed made his appearance among
the Pieieers6f.Ri chtfnd County at a very early
period.   is.real name was Jonathan Chapman,
but e      4!only knownTby the ,  e of Apple-
seed. er!.vd 'Ieiguemfrontthe ciicum-
stan* if.'h   s in     4 'atd. .cUtiating appletrees
fro1uV.      3c    e      ts ai dilferent locali-"
+from     wi hhe sowed ' _ -.'beau-w
"  15.  ': :  '      l  .,£ x , fz '  i  +  ,: r. i  .r

tet bne)
Reiiiosly considered, Johnny wa a rigid Swe-

_
+         Ya

denporgian. He rnaintaihethe  doerin    g h
spiritual intercourse couldhe held with4e ,
ted dead, having himself had .frequatlec   RIMg
tion with the inhabitants of thespiri: l  74Waf
which(of:, the feminingender)hadr  veal d 4p
himthe consoling ;rlews that a J;w.h +
wives in a fniuresba te, pryi4ekhe  dey)eep
himself from a matrimonialaliance,  o   a
He vowed celibacy, and  wer          he
upon-topay any. nsirous attetio     ee     e
K~ t  se:. Johnny posesse1ad kid goq    a4r k
made him welcome visit orzam g.the w4
Indians;the titer never ma     t
garded hisith)a kind4 ofsip        en.
Hispersonal appearance was ery singu 1     g
markable; being a small, heavy-aet  hmkyalgr
quick in cnveraation an4 regtlee  isdgoo
His eyes were dark and sparkling, and hi irks
eeard     ee Dperihitted t  apL i449 L iir."5 yg test
length  'a err permitting 4hem t d
clothingwas. generall.haif war no    b
obtained.ithaving'sereeided t inar  hag*4
apple trees. Johnny scarcely ever wore anyL&amp;td
covering.onhis head =  an} natid~3gig1$4
withand l mostly went.barefooted,  '
ter; and generally slepn iThe WQl4ta
Such is- -brief'roMtline oft ho hitory !lhip  gu-
lar personagewho firsttmada1- hia peF igp "
Western Pennsylvania, and thenoeiintis     fe
Jchiny left the county of iRjahJ ad6
yearsgo, imotder tefiabara    nr
lweftouse  Ige se4 she1w l  qyg4any~&amp;  e
he                            hieiee r{" s htie y a
.. ohn-ya}Applesped  dede    t-e
every setlenep  anddeverykeil
detoght3oDi in '; edd n eemrdaad{i
store. wasaa si~ny epit4atadh
nes to preach to6he pe41 n&amp;qal

L


of diseasesand to warn the settlers of any'imipen-
diig",daiger, of which he was made acquaint'ed by
s5itit a1"revelation.
'Jhnny had been at Mr. Seymour's before, and
had frmed quite an attachment to the family.
His frieqBent visits to the house, had induced Philip
t0Aindulgevin some pleasantries respecting him.and
Kite Johnny had endeavored to instil into the
mindsof'the'family the doctrines of  wedenbor-
giaisin;and on these occasions Kate was sometimes
Mad ertlie object of his appeals; Philip taking the
advance of' these,, would at every, opportunity,
indulgent sonipleasant jokes at Kates' expense.
Good evehing,:Mr.;Chapman," exclaimedPhilip
as'J;hmay opened the door, "'Wee a right down
glad toisre you oice more, particularly Kate'who
has.had' some fears=that the red skins'had taken
"'Godb e s the 'dear gid," said Johnny, turning
hi-ey iupon Kate, " don't give yourselftthe' least
uedessiues aboutme, there's not an Indian in :all
ti vst ilderness who will lay a violent handupon
hi.laughing eyes fell. upon Kate, at the
sa"1n taat, .withJohnny's, while the abashed
girl hung dOwn her head in:silence.
aiDut,"sid'Philip, addressing himself to Johnny,
in'ordrto r live4 Kate from anyfurther remark
fr d ihir"are ,you in league with i old Satan that
y9speak thusconfidently, or what evidence have
yu4;hat.hesLild savages will not molest you?"
As- to nyour tift question," replied Johnny,:" I
old info'mh     tlitM although I hold omnmunion
with spirits,,thqt of Satan does not enter into the
number of 'mfny coespondents; and asto 'your
so in4iterrogation I'would say'the 'evidences
u      ihichIfo.und 'my hope of safety in their
hads si.°-in mp1icit eon dencein the Creatorarid
thewaebing out the 4gol'den rule or law 'of love 'Do

tONE  u' i

unto others as you would have others   do unto
you.'
"All this," replied Philip, "may be wellkenougli,
but to tell you the truth Johnny, I havemore t on-
fidence in gny rifle, among such vermin as i fest
this wilderness, than all the "golden rules'' ir the
universe."
"Ah ! young man, in this you are mistaken?'
replied Johnny, "there is a power in kindnessin
returning good for evil, which is more effectiveiin
subduing the evil propensities of a savage=:nature
than in all the weapons of warfare;under ,theasurn,"
" I accord honesty, Johnny, to your convictions
of right and wrong," said Philip, "but cannot  see
the subject in this{ light... True humann iatur, is
the same in all men, modified only by th force of
circumstances. What one ,,n conceives to be
right another may conceive toberong;but'Io
not wish to push the. arguenet anydfurther..
. As you please, answered Johniy, "but'iVe
you ever investigated the doet ines of X:4*ttl
Swedenborg?"
"I. believe not," replied Philip," nor eaicy
that I have any particularinelination  4:il4
though I offer no objections against tl e  Us
doctrines or his followers. [allow=eve  insrt he
right to think on the-subjxtWof religi om
self. You perceive, Johnny*,J am notsinaispirit-
ual yood to-night ;. my inii rues upnQ. ,4 a ,is,
more than angels, a-*good deal.'., .aQ
"How so,'said! Johnny,. looking inquiringl 4
Philip ; "has any thing happend,to turhvfou
thoughts to-theredmezn?" .a
"No,anothing ofrimportance, onlytkat te&amp;4eil,
Kanote  -came very unarshoongge;40."
ti; jngs I $i4 H9nry.   "%Tha iseM,
troublesome about hei-e. 'no Yi"
tvry ;itiwasopiebaibly iiske ; KIrm-
oto eshotat abeargs enhays2


PIONEER    F-               2

~hip thierelata ed to Henry and Johnny Apple-
seed the circumstances which we have detailed, in a
previous chapter
JohJnny listened atte itively to ,the narrative, and
.wheu e had con luded,:rema rked to Mr:Seymour,
that it might be well otoremove the family to the
block house for , a few days, and related=some cir-
'w   takiies iu additionpwhich. induced him to think
Y -O et ssaages were not as friendly as they had
beer.
-I e    -d gentlemran 1howeyer contended that
there  as noidang~ree  The Indians, and especially
Knotehe, had always be en  friendly, and he could
ee no rreasoshy they should change th eir 'feel-
Anga.' It will do ao harmito spend a short. time
at the blodk huse said Henry (whose recolection
wf his wn adventre he previous, night was -still
atidda hipniinds althoughlhe kept it .to himself
for fe arf'itmig he family) it 'is.sevident the,
q4gga mnedl~thequlwtllig, whether mischief to
"  teWijtes i' n 4g Narnins to be seen."
Well, well," said the old man, "we will keep
-  godJookyo it,qa d  what turns up; at present
t+ch ngei.the..,bj ect. How did, you leave the
~41d~ksh?.-end the ala gentleman Jaunched oWf
i4*3e stof£inquiries in regard to Henry's fam-
_      d,  gds in Pennsylvania,,
Ili hintarhour o two passed away in pleas-
#t4919VpWencthe family separated for thenight
Anxious thoughts, however  killed the miads of the
igpi00a thf retired to their room together
4kal   ove  e.,the events of the day pr vious.
Henryrelated to Philip #his adventure *lth the
kdi a&amp;Adane;tie dhim toobe.on his guard.
"he devils need w hing,"said Philip, "I
didave afny   ieue inthem, ard! h e
seen no reason to chahgey 'opino ye,  'c #l
M a scut in the  oniig *nd see if 'I   dis-
cover anything. t Uh ! how 4the: wolve howl

to-night--that's the kind of serenade we get in
this country, Hank. How do you like it? ".
But Henry was asleep, dreaming of Kate and a
rosy future.
"Well, Hanks' tired, and so am I," said, Philip,
and followed' his friend into 'Dreamland.

'R'I

Ii'

,"(

4

25

7 i^
,i
}    i

Y  t  ., , I  i  .,   , a y ,#  ,r  +   p s i  ,. 7          -   .    f l ;    7
r   {e7 .7                           t   i               '      i        E


HENRY MONROE-ADVENTURE W1T RUFFNER.

"He eat alone,
And silent, on a fallen tree,
And, gazed upon
The waters gliding by."
lOQR several days subsequent to the
JLevents narrated in the previous
chapter, Phil p7' Seymour made it his
business to traerseathe country for
og around for the purpose of ascer-
taing thedposition of the Indians and
the probabiKties of their making an at-,
ktasck Un the settlements; but so far
as he could learn" all 'danger' had disap-
peared, and Philip began to flatter him-
self that his fears had been groundless,
and that he had in fact' entirely misin-
terpreted the occurrences which had
previously excited his suspicions.
Henry Monroe in 'the 'meantime had made a for-
m aTproffer of his heart and hand'to the gentle
Kate, and was now  n accepted lover. The. time
for the wedding was appointed, and Henry having
made a purchase of a quarter of land, on the ,Black
Fork, a short distance below the Seymours', where-
upn tor settle with hisbride, returned to his friends
inoniesylvania, in order to make his arrangements

2T

for a final emigration to his new home in the wil-
derness.
On the day. following the- departure of Henry,
Philip, anxious for another adventure in the woods,
and  feeling lonesome in the absence of his friend,
took up his rifle, and bidding the family good morn-
iug, sallied out into the wilderness justas the un
was appearing in all its golden glory.
F or hours Philip wandered through the forest
without finding any object worthy of his attention:
There was anabundance of inferior game in-the
woods but this did .not come within the purview of
this dlay's adventure. He wished to have another
encounter with a'bear, wolf, or wild cat, but oild
not get a glimpse of any of these.
-   gSomewhat fatigued and weary,Philip at length
sat himself down upon the green banks of the mur-
muring stream that flowed through the forest,,ind
for ,a while sat gazing in a dreamy listk  less
upon the wild scene around him.In I  slii e
his eyelids gre" heavy, and hefelf dt did
sleep, from which he did not awaken, till h ad
sunk behind thewestnr hills. Jumpingito 1 et,
he was about start home when theater   g of
brush and the rof bashes, misoe distkbe-
low him, eaughtis 'tentionl.  Aoter e
mentally 3esclaimdad  exainin    i ri    And
all rigbt, then "qx-;etifsteppinr.b'  . a ai# dak,
prepared to discharge 'his rifle, a  s th eual
mde itpparane
The hdrde o1t tning had g            the
forestyfald tb° tWtklunderbush d 2 frbrh cnin a
great rruie ttlte light            'This
made      pt          etios in      i    fair
opporttdcis if                         - came
the advancingsfootstepauntil at;last ie 'full form
of a man emerged from the deep' thicket,'into the
little. opening. :'In a moment Philip discovered to
.his infinite delight, the person to be none 'othet

SI'

CHAPTER IV.

DI PAERTUE OF

Plo.KA)IR"


SEZ WE.
th,4s friend an4 equipion ofdhe forest,_Martin
Rufiner, and springing from behind, the tree, in an
unthoightfuil manner, had just.;prongunced the
worc,;"by   ," when crack went Rffier's rifle,
sd the young pan sprang into the air, excliming,
Rufner, I am shot." In a moment Rff-
ner grog :zed is friend, and running up to hin
found that the hail had done hinkno serious damage,
having mnerIy. grazed his, body, Philip soon re-
covered from his fright, a$ 4the two friends con.
great ated e:eh other in*their escape.
Phiipre qieste  Ruffner 1o accompany him
hge, wicrh was readily compiled with, as p was
Jut, on his way to the cabin of Ar. Seymou in or-
.der to communicate to, the.family his.fers as to
their safety.in the.present defenseless condition.

.,

.r

K
At

V                 I '
CHAPTER c
,AI N up Ef
"  Thatj and gave him birth, where  y ,jt.t twee
Wave o eorthe broad billows.o proudly
H e wi( nured ot the share,*hee me white cr ted deak"
A dat ,e b trying, jempest beatlogg'~"""-LEES.,
Martin Rufrer, the character introd u ei&amp;r
last chapter, was a large heavye-a efe
traordinary nrasclar ability; ihe hd&amp;.bhanure4
hardships,and ' stirri g' events 'll ihlfiehe
been broui htip almost exclusidrveWede
Hunting afid fshig wereslis favoti   usgmit, -
andl the dftes hi8sC~nustaK$ comlanioflin
bibed an early hated again st'heddg     biss
as, he' c1e4ed thed ians 4 censequege Mf *eir
having,urde d4serelof hire    at iti s   6,
early settImet bfesterF'eannyka b.
vowed fromiThatiday an eternal hatred        a t
them                     .   ,   t   .,,
Y,   had emigratedto    ichland Co   y
years before th. ar'fg1&amp;12, locairg  is    du
the wild 'and romantic spot, near the pre  site
of Letersburgh,:nownrh$ad;Coi tg    x     d
was agab~ gilergg        4rbi      y    sndy
ganTe innab kedi d 4ce I ah4k 44     44
agesswho ft s p  9P tep,'re fe dy4i.po    .
Several of.thse  TIdioudshad frequent1yea11e
at his cabin, but heprompelgd refused to e4t rtipte
any soei&amp;de a    ng~eminte wit tldef,1   $


30           PIONEER LIFE.

powerful man, muscular, active and courageous,
one of the best marksmen in the state, and posses-
sing a countenance dark,' gloomy' and forbidding,
with eyes piercing and fiery, the Idians, to some
considerable extent, were kept in awe of him.
Some. time after Ruffner had emigrated to this
country; sever 1 -other families also came, among
which was the Seymour family already no ticed.
Shortly after the arrival of this family, Philip
Seymour, hearing of the existence of this eminent
backwoodsman, paid him  a visit, and formed an
intimateacquaintaune with, him. The impressions
which' Philip had received of his character as a
hunter were fullyverifred ob seeing him.; Ruffner
and Philip aen edto 'ahonid of union, the one"
an uneducatedlDut hifan,-With the exception' 6f
wha eretakied to a.life .in;the wood; the ether
i~± palinked gentlenarof some twenty-five
yheasfage, hQ, otwithtanding-his JoVOe rfor
t    ao 4re edbs=cietyfound the nogt. txqui-
00'ynt       01 ttgi aver ngthe wil1 wods as a
hilipec    Jthe comnpay fthegtenas
a   I     p an    pwringkhig to beof invaluable
~er "ilah t  in.his  ex usy i ' .j
te f erxoontof the sanideayn  hish 'Philip
{hi dlfshfst father's ' cbingas relate&amp;inth',ret
c       hcha"tRee  ir had arot    ispwth'the
h~ioi'   f  lling aV the eabiri oftr.Seymour,
for the two-fold purpose:of advising him to remove
i   lyE o thlo k ' house,$orsaety, and to en-
ga e         ayd f.Philip"ii. a few day's hunting
Whle onfhis way thther.heoerEed thie tracks
f  e   wki h' p ej igr fidhth detetihred 'to
Ib6iReteii soe  istai    Mleast. The trail ed
fil ev4is, 'wh n;ifpfi ally disappeared al-
tegeth    - :He then retn edin thedirectin fthe
Gefinar cabSin,. hbut gdot=proceeded farbefore
4 hednt takiplhce mentioned in the preceedwg

hpte .It:was lte at :gh twhen iipa      is
companion arrived at the cphin:- T I'    ae
all in k.Ad  But paenering, Kate ch:erheIy ap,
and prepared  thpmomething;to'eats ;  ra
they aid down andwere soon enpoyinggte  i ky
of dreamless slumber, from which they di4 pLqt
awaken till the sun wasrpotinghiPfloo   ight
upon the distant hilltops.
After the family had partaken of te mor    a
meal, Philip related the evenings advnture, whnci
considerab  alarmed them, aticiai  y 1  t yho
in her mild andd  hetic m an er
"Brothsh Philip iothaekM 1dTr   to   $&amp;f
thus p."serviing" four"lifM fr di a'ftoi' dre tti"
'Tthinks'sotoo,"iliedhffner,:y     ii
Ize not often  oaoots fori ottianl'
"Oh God ! Mr.' Rufifier,"xexd ii   '   t
would wepave done in this twif*o      d  d
shot my brother," and the tears ,.roeile i
rosy cheeleofsthe tffe&amp;id  sitr
"Thinkiiotinre tbou fhis o   Ra41
Phili' "   s all overarizd no one is  ]ura
life is surroundedwith da g nd
i t s  e v e n t s  w i t h  t r u e  c o u r a g e ."whi, l dr s
IYhiip now i-sikted e"L ~U'  e
K id h. tit"ffm;'rS4.    '; r i yr.ttrA  e f" 
bad thereader been reinthe wo        ,
a peculiar something in the dak pidrcin  eof
r  thesherOic Dutcman g ikidiative o twoi  l:a-
tred which he bhre'th ehidian race,o tif  f6
had Philip ended his stfd uthehis'hlj e inged
Dutchran sp  fg thiJfe.and.with 4sash-
ing, fire, exclaimed:,j.,x      r  ,b  .    t
"  W 44  i S  i ,1  yp  s t  t bh  h  y  yr
von he' curuW to meIt     treI          ei-
himyare iJ se, se  o  a a, g          h
' Agud do ygu nI " reggd4   jp~       this
fellow really intended to murder mei"

30

pNEEt .   .


(   ,I   - ,q  E, -" '-

'V  L'R    L

i   1  i    t
t*r~y ift~not n oe mse yeeksg ,tyo
o t's ek     oi te      f Essterait iOnto
a n oP VW6 of mnlfi' ned         San-
n t  p}+ .dl teriv to pieces mt tr ta little
y      Ied ti      " r cpleeof hei
Appleseed, ta1ing of that most hornile

itJ._'fY s  Cot,1vmr,;it iS" nof ter tajm et
plge hobs. tr terkuntry."
'A F   is deed.'replie Xate "but can yu not
te4heeircumstande6f this murder     I hould
like to know all about it:"
,l   bJy t f1r heart oma,   now all apout
v    o tteIh i bt      '  s hbe  i  ;i t e n  de i  a n -I
knows you vood not mean vot I y*od shbak'
i eag kufth" replied Kate "we can
*Gibbs and BueI, who were murdered in the spring of 181W

understandyou well enough; so just speakonind
tell us about the whole affair.
"1Vell vell, Kate," replied ffrei  vi   i
ter whole mit you, yust te  you' llaptou i
whereupon, the Dutchman ,fildh
bacco and after giving it a few puffs, heani his1t9
relating the whole affairin brkena  g1itgi bee
he could, during which he made many ludicrous
blunders, but Philip and Kate man a  to  M ee
a respectful attention, until h was}Vhrogh.M 'M
wards the close of his story Philip'a dbeedde
much agitated, his face ,became flused t4dduhis
eyes assumed a fearful aspect .  t as ;i4Wthat
emotions of vengeance wereiagi t'a g his bosom.
The murder was cold blooded and desperateyuel
and he had not heard all the :patieular  1iiow,
as Johnny Applesend had merely mneione4   he
circumstance.               ; "B
Ruffuer concluded" is storyor sayin      r
Kibbs, he vos a "rae fellow  e   e    ns
raskals have dun ,ter schob for hi'
Sh e yes of Philip were -ivited u.'  Th   h-
man, as he concluded the story of tfi$ t  1
ble affray,'and springing to his feetgin aff'mysn
of fearful rage, efclaimed:
"Curse all the red skins'inthe   ie
incarnate devils ! had I the ,keywli4   #l
arsenal of storms, then would'Iopenup   { iz
f { guilty and treacherous hea4s the exteniiMcing
thunders of heaven,runtiithe last vestigeof 4  ir
hated race, should be swept from the ,pce  ihe
earth,
Theeyesoftlie heroic   tthman we     j3
upon the young man, as he  a
malediction, and he imagmed he had never bftyre
seen a lving picture of sie      ien-
man," voi ter tevil 'i ter matter 'mit te    .


PIONEER LIFE.

P-lOiIE Lk-UIE.

Bsz' pa ed . moment; he cast his eyes upon
his parents, then upon Kate; his glance was fearful,
h-oom he avel awih the wildest emotions, and
I #Gga'teflnce assumed, if possible, an aspect yet
mp p WYhful th 4n before. 4.gain he spoke, "curse
the  r4 loads of hell,and may the hissing thun-
derbots of heaven fall thick and fast upon them
APhilhfpA ?hilip'-screamed- the ,half a ighted
K     ~te, ds she gazedupon the vindictive couninance
oft r bother. "1Th the name of God, don't look
so fearfu1p ni xus.",
lifre 0oV in !Himm~ele Gay,".replied Ru1ner,
"votfis ter matter mit{ter man-py ter Old Hapy,
Itiuksa howhe g   mes ittasvon vild tevil."
"uneirrerpli ed1Thiili ,' affer' a moments pause,
and becniiig more c nam" I hope you will be able
some day to avenge the death"of your friends."
Dat s yust sot Fvant, nd vot has prot me in
' b   " eplied theDutchmann
..Waiyppg et , Martin," replied Philip, "and rest
'p;s alexpct to sharethe p  with yo."
"4Bt,"?   e pliedIKate, "you must{riemember that
fighting  is4 game of chanceand ,may be in your
pmpntgeeryenge, yowmay both lose your
seg~~ " {nogews.
I doshjp mine :head from ter skalp," ejaculated
twe thitchaun. d'llpe tam if I do, mit out fueht
put4ingmy briie sons terairtigle.'
"2evid   of ahero' . rplied Philip, much
leased with Dutchinan's witicism.r. "When these
r i4  ki"'   xtgtMatfi' a salp; it will be  when  he
Ei diEfesi&amp;it   f   'ge2m'_'
py ter d ilarry,yust Yet ter' tevils' eum on mit
1   j  l ttleaxes ud I_'hons t n viteh yyt'fer

The, sun was fast going down, as Ruffner bid
the family his usual "goot daugh" and returned
home.

0

35

,  .

y                "1       t,    t          ,           ,
y3. -   vtt _ J t
'r.
"                                                               ,              nth
,J
r                                     "                      t l 'lt   f    1     -r' Y  '        ' J
G                                                                  t
f     !                   4    .        ;       A i                           r     1


CHAPTER VI.
THE MURDER OF GIBBS AN] BUEL.
"'Twas death to tarry, and 'twd*ath to fly
Death bared his weapon, with 'terrific alight
And all was desolation."-ANNYiious.
Before following up 'the adventures of" Ruffner,
on the evening he left the cabin .of Seymour, we
propose to lay before the reader a condensed his-
tory of the murder referred to in the preceding
chapt '
Tw :buners -named Gibbs: and  hel Itad built
then        small log cabin, bout one mile from
Sand     bay,ft bout;one mil-3.S ]: I ofte present
site             The cabir 'asituted on the
West ,        1 l prairieaPnaid.was srrounded
by a             i  bushes nd small tees. It
was a    Ft      oc tion anft inthe i.,idst 'of a
beautiful                   r %titoouitry.  =ee the e;two hunt-
esreaine         so    tie t'happy in their wild
pursuits.
TWo Indians named Omic and Semo, belonging
to th'e Ottawa tribe, frequently passed by this cab-
i, 'on their way to'the mouth of the Huron river,
where they exchanged their venison and furs for
powder, lead, tobacco, whiskey &amp;c. -Forming an
actaintance with Gibbs and Bue!, they made this
asbin their stopping place over night-. One night
lbout, two o'clock, these savages came to this cabin
highly intoxicated, zkaaking a tremendous. uproar,

PIONEER UrE
and demanding admittance, but fearing thtthey
would kee up their noise all night;,theyere a4
mitted. As soon as they had got insigethey conr
menced a general "pow wow."     Gibbs orde d
them to keep quiet or quit the cabi  Th     i-
sed to do either. Whereupon theyjwere knoie,
down and dragged out.
The Indians 'then withdrew from the 'house, and
nothing was heard of them for one or t7o: days}
when they returned perfectly sober, and in a friend-
ly manner, making no allusion to their former
treatment; this was done to remove all suspsiown a
to their intentions. They returned again in thp
night of the same day, and requested  permission
to stay all night, which was 'immed el granted
as before.  Gibbs and Iuel went to bed, ra  e
Indians lay down as'usuajijbefore the fire, and-
pairentlygip a few monmentslept oupndy    tg4i
Gibbs'and  uel had be asleep opethi gggq
hour,. the savages quietly aos, eachpgsp0g his
tomahawk, and' stealthilygong to $thrIebed4eal
their blows at the heads of the sleeper  The
blow aimed'at Bul waswel diree       A   th
hatchet was buried in his skull ; bt the pi i o
being given srni.tan ously, the oe  heg     e 4o
upon the head of Buel arossed(Gibs   g.rig-
ing to his feet encountered the- two gg
Gibbs made a desperate resistance, but was inim
diately st ruck with the tomaha  of   e  ne
savages, severing his right arm ,except a  If
the skin' which held it fast.  hst ntly
bIwo wbrke his left arm; thennmakhig      to
bound, he  prang from them n i d fledebhgi i
hotly pursued "as he enteredi-dle bushdo, he'Was
shot by Semo with a pistol.
About eight or ten :as afer this $fay nr ag
from the settlemet of Ibon, a o    cn
~Gibbs andBuel on aoe lzugiesag and 3
canwgto lie door £gundl that iereweMg

It


PIONZA ~L1IZ

$O. IBE]R     LIFE.

of blood about it. He entered the cabin, and the
firstobjeut which met his astonished gaze was the
body of Bue which had been thrown head fore-
nost,,downa kind of cellar in the riddle of the
loor, his feet projecting abov . He immediately
returned to the settlement, and communicated his
discovery to the settlers, whereupon a party of
eight oiten set out in pursuit of the murderers,
first stopping at the ill-fated cabin.
An examination of the body of Buel, revealed
the f-act of his head being split open-his legs bro-
ken, and the point of a spear still remaining in his
head. The company who knew the Indians 'recol-
lected that 'Omic usually carried a spear with him
while on his trading expeditions to 'Huron. They
extracted the spear from the head 'of Buel, preser-
vig it for future reference. A .search for the
body oftGibbs now commences. They soon discov-
ered his trail acting him by his blood' and foot
prints.] From the incredible distance of his leaps,
he= ab eyidntly much frightened. his body was
found aceorssthe prairie, about sixty 'rods'in front
of thee  i on the edge of the underbrush. A
ball ha4 e ttredhis' bak and lodged in his left
beast.  lihiarms were nearly cut off, and he
was otherwise dreadfully mangled. The ball was
takenfro his body and also preserved
The next adventure was to obtain a clue to the~
4iyrderers. It was knownthat these Indians had
ofn -ldgeddwith Gibbs and Buel, and : the point
o theperi3found in the head of Buel, resembled
the one carriedbyrQmic. :These considerations
ue   the company to fasten their susicions.
upon Seno and Omic.
".      .iey Were consequently pursued to the mouth
aian riverwheretheTboat was made fast, and
W     hites ezept on, secr-eted themselves,
hiethis 'one w11iwas well acquainted with the
rins,"wnt up the'eiiver to where Semo and Omic

resided.  He found Omic a short distanceup the
river, having in his possession the remaining part
of the spear, with which he had killed Buel. He
succeeded in persuading him down the river, under
pretence of going with him on a hunting expidi-
tion; 'and at .the, moment he reached the, spot
where the' boat-lay, the secreted'party sprung up,
on him, and secured him with ropes. He was taken
to Cleveland, tried, found guilty, and executed.
Semo was next demanded of his tribe. At first
they refused to give hin up, but on being satisfied
of his guilt they.consented to do so. 'A delegation
was sent to receive him. The savage on finding
that he was to be delivered into the hands of his
enemies, asked permission to say a few words to
the company. It was granted him; and he arose.
He was a tall, well built man,-and somewhat grace-
ful in his movements. Every eye was fixed upon
him, and every ear was open to heArwhat 'he 'had
to say.
"My brothers," said the savage  me    Gibbs
with my pistol-me kill many pale face n.ekill
more if me could. You say Sem     u    with
white man. Semo no gohe no want        g-he
sooner be shot."
Then casting his dark ,iercing ee4     Qpon
the whites who sat sole Aistance ;froniIire he
stood, he paused for a moment. The'glance of hip
eye was fearfully wild, and his grave and sullen
countenance, gave indications of his cchamitting
some act of desperation. He drew from his bes~m
his pistol. A death like silence pervaded ti~e as-
sembly. Fearing that his vengeance wasp aboutto .
fall upon some one present, the Indians around'him
were about to rush upon him to, disarm biu
seeing the movement, Semo discharged hi'wIapon
a frightful yell, and a sudden bound into 4ba 4
and the next moment 'the' suicidal -savage fe1~ t

a 4

38


40           IONEEit Ure.

the earth4o rise no more! he had shot himself
through the heart.!
.t casaleged by Omic, on the dpy of his trial,
thet th   provocation which induced them to com-
mitthis 'murder originated from the ill treatment
which   hey -received on the evening when they
were knocked down and dragged out of doors.
*The particulars of this affair have been published in Moore's West, Mag.
vol. 2, tio. 5,'takin from the MSS, History of the "Fire Lands.

CHAPTER VII.

RUFFNER ADVENTURES, WITH WOLVES.
"Once a lonely hunter straed,
Careless, fearles,.on his way,
Through the wild wood's gloomy shade,
Where=howling wolves in ambush 1ay.--LEES.
We shall now leave the Seymour family to the
enjoyment of a comfortable nights rest, and fellow
up ,the adventures of the Dutchman, after"leving
the cabin.                          '
It was late inrthe afternoon when Ruffner1 started
s"4  "for home. He proceededslowly through the w
in search 6f game, but night overtook himjistas
he wasntehring'the borders of a dark anddismal
swamp which lay at the fogt'of a ridgefhy
land, separated fr or wsmaml lake ofwater.*This
swamp was, no doubt, rigialy pi of       elake,
r      paIf rt of th
as the outlet of the 'lake passes irto ,it  The
swamp at this tinewwas a iost dismal 1ooligylce,
Tall thick 'grass and weeds grew around its maggin
and various kinds of serpents and wild beasts were
its inhabitants.
As ourhero was 'nearing this, horrible looking
place, his. attention was aroused by a singular con-
fusion of sounds. He paused, andlistened a teg-
tively, and discovered them to proceed frgyh Ae
swamp. The last glimmer of evening twiligt had
disappeared, and :a deep .darkcnessawas gathering
*This take lie heV Perrysv ile, Ashlnwd County.

?" r
t'
''
*-  :  y4

t.

40

f,


42              PIONEER LIFE.

over the forest. Advancing cautiously a short dis-
tance further, the sounds became more audible.
"Py tam," mentally ejaculated the Dutchman, as
a loud yell broke upon his ears, "vbolvs py shupi-
ter." In an instant another frightfully mingled
howl rent the air, some distance in the. forest be-
hind him, which was answered by those in the
swamp with no less unmusical vehemence. Ruffner
was alone- darkness was around him, and a fearful
foe under cover of. that dyakness had, surrounded
him.
Nearer and still nearer came the advancing band
of midnight marauders, and at every bound their
horrible yells broke in upon the forest. It was
evident that the pursuing gang had scented his
tracks. As the yellsof this gang were borne to
those in, te swamp, the latter answered with no
les appalling sour d  Ruffner's indecision at this
critical period' was but momentary, he sprang into
the branches:of a tree standing a few steps from
him, but''scarcely had he secured this position,
when the whole gang surrounded the tree, and in a
inoment were joined by thosein'te swamp. Then'
commenced- scene of howling grd yelling which
bdfiles all description. Not lessthan tW  score of
these loathsome and nsightly creaturesimingled
theirwild yells in '"horrid'harmony."   it ap-
peared to R4ner, that every onmoment their yelling
grew louderfndmore horrio"    occasionally they
would make theiost desperateleaps towards the
branches of the tree as if determined to spring
upon their intended victim, and' devour' him 'soul
and body. But finding that they could not succeed'
in their attempts,' they became'more furious; and
their yells more "horrible at every failure. But
tfitl they would not leave the spot.
'Riie h sataitiong the"branches of the tree
looking down upon the heart-chilling scene around
him. The glaring eyeballs~ of the infuriated band

of wild beasts, shone like :coals of fire,.as they
prowled around the tree,naking night hideous With
their wild orgies. Thus, l.e sat for some Morgents;
he was beyond their reaeh but not ou of their
sight and hearing. At first.our hero was somewhat
agitated, but finding himself beyond the power of
their devouring jaws he became enraged.
"Vot," said he, half. aloud, "Vill, these  evilish
puggars schase me on ter dree,un den keep up ter
voolish parking it a noise more as like vild tevils?
Py schings I vill shtop some of ter troats."
Examining his "bouch," he found it well supplied
with bullets. He then commenced to open his
battery from the tree, firing upon them at every
opportunity with much success. On the first fire
a death yell from one of their number told that the
ball had taken effect. In this way he kept up his
fire till near midnight. After he had. killed aid
wounded several of them,- they retreated to a
greater distance from the tree, still keeping up a
continuous howling, It was near the hour of mid-
night, and the moon was just pushing up her
modest face, before the wolves showed any signs
of retreating. But at length their howling died
away in the distance.
The moon had now begun to cast her light upon
the forest. Ruffner descended, and on examina-
tion found he had actually shot ten of the*number,
some of which were not dead; these he instantly
dispatched, and taking theit acalps proceeded on
his way to his cabin, where. he arrived in a short
time. Next morning he visitedthe spot where he
encountered the wolves, and found by the traces of
blood and other marks that he had wounded prob-
ably as many as he had killed. Returning to his
cabin, he remained there a few days making.. pre-
parations for the proposed 'hunting gxcursioncl
.It may not be improper to notice- in the conclu-
sion of thin chapter, that Ruffner had under his jii-

" PI N B  LIFE.             43


44ONZEi ' ' iFe

risdiction an orphan' lad of about fourteen years of
age.' 'The original name of this lad was, William
Buntley, but when he came under the care of our
Du'tchraa, he" received the name of "Rwnty Billy,"
from the circumstance that' he was 'thick sete nd
heavy built. Bilij was naturally a smart, active
boy, quick in understanding, good natured and
somne what witty. 1Ie had fan impediment in his
articution, known- by the name of "lisping."-
Billy possessed =a rifle which Ruffner had purchased
for him; he was fond of the woods, and consider-
ing 'his age wasJ a good marksman. : Ruffner ,was
very kind to the boy, and proffered to'take hin to
the block house for safety; -Billy refused, stating
that he could'take care of himself.
'At the time appointed: Ruffner and -Billy made
Their at pearance at the' cabin (of Mr. seymour-
They arrived :thereon the evening previous to the
morning the hunters' iere to start..

1  i !  " P  V  ;  ,  r  +

"R "

CHAPTER VIIL',.

HTNG EORSION.'3f
*"Whit's thisdeceitful world to, met.
ittA;ibiitemx pride Aind hoarded gaina,
shall pxrik, iiand the vile aiiwbt1  '
Songfeastn  op our pox r .  -A.
4 5      Morning dawned, rand as tne fArt ;i bo 1ght
came pguring upqn  h   't, the hn      s were
astir.N
aThe Lapnlywere arouse.,andcd
theirmorning aieal,
" Pilly"said Ru  er, 've vont you to be aoot
poy, anl tgayg  ti 1'old sheytlern   an  ter
vimmins, aal pt all    pae    a, a yvo4  ad
vild cats,gd ebnery ting that flies on two
"Thgermany Gpstenth," redaill ; h     4  s-
tonished, hdinkth, ca    nyt  g      n
length s  "                   r"t 1  rt_ l+ '
Oh," relied   te,  ch anuse4 ats
singular reque    meas    y t    h    a   n
two legs and can fly.   r ,*yy            F.
"Yah Gaty, dai ish it tani nmt ,+ a      -
on tyo eg a tuhia ding riit re ts i o  3-a6k a
lyinadewn-d just% YtIness
Breakfast! ready  and  all' sat d h' o aan  ib u lnu
mal. ?li&amp;lip anid 'Ruflfier, s nan aw th~'had
edlen kftthe cabin,':'and'1ere, so6o''i fight
"Mna tin" saidPhilip inihtf difetk4hall we
'Vell I tinks red -etter go more as a1i tte1iie

I44

f       t    a    {
I          ;


PIONEER LIFB.

dis vay, den ve vill go von leetle vile anuder vay,
and after a vile sthop at der place vere ve vill find
ourselves yere ve never vas.
"Well, then, if that's the case let us proceed
with all possible haste;" replied Philip,." but still
I can't understand where abouts "never was " is lo-
cated."
"Vell I tells you," replied the Dutchman, " it is
yust vere ve viii. pe ven ve git tere, mit out ve
don't get tere oxd dis vay. *
S"Ah, yes," replied Philhp, not wishing to press
the subject any further, "I.understand you," and
the two hunters 'eotinued their journey, until they
arrived at the ma  of thi Iocky Fork. Here
they seated themselves, and for a while gazed upon
the dpark ng'flood as it rolled over itsstony bed
Athistime the scenery in this region was of
the wid es -; caraeter. The bottoms Qf ejthet, side
of the streairwere very 'fertile, producing an abun-
anee ofwild grass, flowers alndldowering shrubs.
or heroes had not heei seated long in this
rom  t.sotbefore the qparance of a'solitary
man o     istance beow thei attracted their
~~ ] a~er to ,agertyin 'jvho he might be,
iHesshes  erethey n ove4 dwn the stream
towa4 iun   r under cover of 'weels and bush=s-es
 ip n   tthe spot they discQyereda the, stranger
to 9      otherthan the good hearted Johnny
Apl4es   , buiily engaged ciitivating &amp; young nur-
sqry w$hie he had planted there.,
"   oan a" , said4lhilip, advancing
towards huna  qt   Q hp .have not dturbed
".a ,,        le    hN"    wa j  at clearing
Oty ae   aea  fromignY,,uruery, and  bil thus
ingge4, aggdjtig ap gh, simiarity of an
uncultivated wilderness to that of-the human heart
ugrgggeasted. Both ar~e. a a wil4. stateg-n one

are found wetds, thorns rands briarapand in the
other thebrambiesHofsin a n4 misery Y
Quite 'a poetic comparison, Mr.    an' re
plied Philip, "but tell nie are ydu iot afraid df
your scalp being taken by the ' red vermi ,phieh
infest these woods '
"No," 'replied Johnny.  :    'E
 " And, why nit?" asked. Philip.
"Because," said he, ' Iive in harmony with all
men-these. rude people inot eze te.  Within
the range of iiiy ac'quaintaiane 'do :notIk I
have one single en.eiy, with The exdeption af the
devil,. who, I am satisfied, entertains no .gdod will
towards me, or any man  who oppores his ,designs'.
"The devil!" replied Philip, with ,a smilefand
pray, 'Mr. 'Ohapinan whois he '
Looking 'Philipsteadily in the  cefor'a nent
he replied, rangeg, :strange, young an ,that'one
of his nost faithful arid obedient;children,ishould
so far outrage the memory of 'his;pare4, anddthIt
too, after having spent years of toil=in his servitee
as to inquire who he is !"v '-
Philip was hot expecting this ceto , I4d fo. a
moment seemed at loss for a reply. Casting his
eyes upon Ruffner, withy half sippressedrsmileghe
wished to discover whether 'he understood thtjim+
port of Johnny's rejoinder. Ruferfa/perebtion
were 'keen enough, and he replied' t f' DI h it,
Mesther Schapman '; he has got terwrong Laofy
ter- ear' dish time. Dish feller tinikwpeause hersti
a good scholar dat 'heknows ebery thing; fi tbs
schingo, Mr. Schapiau, you know inbrein vo ileie
minute den he knows mit.all hia jbeoka" }
"Mr. Chapman," said'Ph1lip, 'm ntenkto
conf es that I amit  bf tIabi   fjiay
but little attendell 'to hal. .uWodi d } '  ,
spiritual 'nature. Things  a btb#fdfbft
engage ,ny hotiht t   mat e ligfid t Wl oi'hO
truth, I would sooner encounter~ e thbougand of

I NEE ' .APE.


?TONEER LIE.              4

48

VQr/ U FEAI.

.,. .s- - .
yo ur p!kuiaevil, with imaginary hoofs,.horns
and tails, thaw:ter_ f thieOwlctr eddvils,;which are
atthis.pmo t powlhig like:wild beasts through
the forest, Carrying death and destritcton iii. their
desolatingeareer..
" Ah, young man !" replied Johnny, "the deso-
lation and eternal misery of one immortal. spirit
under the influence of S tan, is infiitely mote la-
zientable than the; destruction of the whole human
familyg temper arily con idered."
"    iyour opinion'"repied Phiip,  but to tell
you the ctruthymath as I have heard about this
spiritaldevil, I have 'never had the pleasure of
forming this acquaintance.
, el   ekyoungema, ' tephed Johnny, 7if
you continue to live in your sins and die u~iegen,
rated, 1LIa  fearful you wiliform his acquaintatice
to your eternal.egret; hut eyes youhave, and you
seent-  ,ear yorhave, and ydu hear net-a heart
yethave, butyou understand not; hence you are
led areaptioe byhim, and his w 1lis yours."
"Well, Mr. Chapman," said Philip; evidently
convicted M ithe correctness of Johnny's positibu,
"       r  klot stine to press the argument. any.fur-
thervhow evefrmppieh Umight aish Ito. Ruffner and
eyselW lne o*on a huntin 'exenrsn, and will
heI   eafeA'days and{-having accidently seen
youea e    thought would make you a oaillLand
reg.ityouto oblige me by calling at our cabin
ee   evening while in the yeighborhoaodrThe
fehdilg wolf{i be n ch pleased to have you call
*itI fthemand Lhav  ng douabj" you will.have
much betrdsu  s' ii your religious operations
Th~inny pg    g    pliapn, whereupon, the
4pyo at,      d  rl1sgo°ded:ing, and ,egumed
V- jogy        . til ath ey p  to the.,Pmsuth of a
stjnILptying tQ ,. Clear i 'ork.
s %9$ohikna Viw mifleest ~Ctleiipesent village oi Nk vne.

This region, at the time ,of which we write, was
beautifully wild and romantic, containing an abun-
dance of wild game. Bears, wolves, wild cats deer
and raccoons, were more numerous here than in
any other region of the country; this was owing
to the greater abundance of rocky dens and deep
ravines, affording them  a more secure retreat.
Philip was much pleased at the location,, and ex-
pressed his determination to make this a camping
ground for the night, Here the clear sparkling
waters rolled over'the pebbly bottom with a rip-
pling sound, which minled with the melody of the
feathered songsters, anithe ham of wild bees, sip-
ping their sweets from each tiny flower, conspired
to fill the soul of Philip with the ivelest e motions.
He gazed with delight upon the enchanting scene
around him, and seating himself upon the bank of
the stream,iidulged in ,a, few moments meitation
and solilquy;. sometimes repeating alu4. the
thoughts that arse in his mind. Ruffrer b4 9jA-
ed hunself upon a log little in therear  f
and was Fbusily engaged in roling volame  f t-
bacco smoke from h..moth, er             iry.
ing his huge lips as heolled forth an A4erqta-
tity  fthe'snole.,
n thispositon sat our hu
one in deep meditation, in the othersuurr
with a halo-of tobaco smoke, and peretly"i
ent .to the soul inspiring beauties of4  nature.
Mfterhavingtrested f ew  *  nt Ehiije,
menced the eection of a    mned
poles and bark. This pahon pc a,
the two ihnters ld o   torest.
"  l .  X 1rI      ~ 5 4 i l      1  } ft

I       -
t                                   {    .

a

t~l
,q'

49


' .  1Wiftial nitain   do I hear.
HORWerr blj t'strikes thisgar;
RoW fearfh tibtWridhight hour
To hearth; erpent's h rmin power,
Why ve efu1 crawling 'round my bed,
And k  *epi*  p , hn iis s e"'"
t was late   he afternoon when 6r little Rar-,
tya rld at the   outh' of the run: The sun had
etj =loudleglory behind the adjnohng    i:,
be     thvrha   fully completed their, shelter..
Eving4igight Wajuat disappearing s our hun
.en l1yi't    e4    R  nr' wMs soon in the
isc    f4ia~fnis". -but Phiflp oidt noVclose hs
eyes, and was in the act of t urni g himselfdotad,
#en&amp;E~eptigliimhi attle fellripon his Nrs.
h&amp;    iiid Wa familiar, and nii'ing to hip feet
I' lied ugo hisomyanion &amp;dfElloW suit.
r"8ha   S 'neaas!_by haveis ", edleaimed he,
i QM       uf e'ofthe shelter.
o'          is Ter:mdatt  mit you mans
,eited tre  thimankuibbing his eyes.
"Get out of that!4 aimed Phiip,'"as fast
as your legs will carry.y/ u , you will be covered
with rattlesnakes
"hottIe shnaI  ' !he i'fed the Dutchman,
e,-ish ter rattle    s     am!" But before
he euld' say any             caught the sound
of the vendmous rete sr ai a general rattling

.;i  r

;,
r            ,
A'7'
.;

tmong their trils had now commence
his feet said--        ; ,                 t
"veil, i tinks I hears ter tm nose un4er Ater
tails, and I sphose've had gp tter yvus lt trUs
be."
"I think so," replied philip, "fo there ar piles
of them here.".
"Yell den vot shall we do for ablace to sheep E
inquired the Dutchnan.
"Let us put up another shanty," replied Phll.
Accordingly the two hunters Wernt to work, an_ i
a short time had the satisfaction of takin g  figf
in another shelter.
The hunters lay down once  are   Euffner was
sodn fast asleep; but Philip's illi4 was full 't
snakes, and he could not close his eyes. lHe, tridl
in vain to banish these Aid imaginations from his
mind. If he attempted to shuthis eyes a   ufhbu-
sand forked, fiery tonigueswer'drig a hiu.A
There he lay; restless and ines_ whileTi$i
was in the fiill enjoyment of luinibefi ;
It will be recollgoted tha  iip pI u4 u
countable repugnace to spa  s.  Ee w
class of animals dit he hatd mre h   e 0ake
family  ie. ha had several    rge epegg
them, and on several occasios QadI Ibeen :it1
by them. Onceighisqwn      b        e
snake had takeh rfuge       is      w h
lay all night, a'4iinf  pp ing w l,. iu,1 9
act of dressing hinse  t opie"cea cis'.
ra tle," as he daleht anp 1         i    4
be 1in order to acsetalpi it weitF6
leap toward him, ai   sihead"c       hi    et
inches ofhis fem                    i
until it had bitten"U i Myog~' $j   feagfglog
ing, Philip had entterhg1dVth d    et     otgud
h   ctred of saalkes, wi". -d tIe dread Qft _

,.
+''  i f       k   r    1       '
J
z.. n                       b i ,:.

1                                                              Y     i                                        t
t


therefo el, reader will not be at a lose to account
for the state of his mind on this occasion.  A
As wehave -re iarked 'he lay in this :estess
cnd tion; 'how long, he could not tell. At length
he found himself deprived of locomotion,, and a sort
of tupidityeae ove 'Ihih.tHis feelings were
most singular and distressing. He tried to move,
but in: vain. APresently a huge rattlesnake came
crawling towards him; its diamond eyes were fied
ugaihis, and its forked tongue dared at him' in a
pet«ferocious man er.r When it had approached
within several feet of him it halted, and commenced
a most fearful rattle with its tail; instantly' a hun-
dred others made their appeaance, advancing upon
hm from diffeent directions. Philip gazed upon
liis heart chilling scene, but, he was utterly unrble
o, extricate himself fromi.his perilous condition.
3ef©re him lay, densee thicket, a d around him the
ground was iterally strewnwith. the most venom-
9r     files They wref a    pieces  se shapes
and coors-bullsaJesco paper heads,'rattlesnakes,
black snakgsgreen snakes, blue racers anvipers,
1lial other s peculiar to dry 'and. The'trees
iound 'himwere flive with them- and all advan-
ei upontim. 'A' 'sense -of suffgcation oppressed
hi n=theyhadlbund themselves atound his'legs,
ii '    urmand body. He woi o have torn the
-jile.fromfhim he   otild "have'?'"rampled them
underis    e; heMwonafavebounded from tat
_ l   u.dfound a w teit yigrave aV the bttom 'of
t&amp;Thi"kbut fli 1n ular  f tlit held him there.
i1elooked r     forhish    :bd iIb he "had 'di'ap-
peled. A          repe     d    found self about
his'n ck  d   s :thie'd f choking hin. Philip
iade one desperate effort and springing to his feet,
.awo e                     rhlfound itiall  rr d dream! exclaim-
'A ud all th repile rade, from the Nst bald
lE   4% ergen tii Te 'arden of Eden, 'donito 'the

r6eEEiR LIFE.            8
last vestige Which shall remain' on the face{f
earth !"
"Not ter devil is ter matter now i man?' .Vf
kind of a tam voolish vay is dis of getting out froin
ter ped'? Vy, py ter lord' Harry, fou looks more
as like ter,t evil himself!"
"Blast the snakes," cried Philip, still rubbing
his eyes, and ,apparently somewhat.bewilde ,
SVy, mine Cot, man, vere ish Ater any n
but he had scarcely asked the questinywe  lt
ing his eyes towards ,the. pae whre  e      .
discovered the head of an enormous iattles4.
peering from  he crevicesof a log against i  p
had rested his head during the night. Ruffe t-
teredan exclamation of surprise, and,}was akoit,
stoop down. to the earth'for a. club to dispatch th
reptile, when another, not quite as large,,.ade a
fearful. leap at him, .just A as 1hilip was about'to
w rhi Cof his danger.*
'Fortunately, before the reptile had timeto gath-
er himself for anotherleap, Phip came downup
on him' with a , fearful crash, and the rept  ;Was
soon rithing in theagonies;of death.'a. n Qet
moment, and the one under the log met  asiwiar
fate.,
Daylight had just broken in uipoi:the forest:se
Philip was aroused fro.'h     A   i.  nay, not
altogether a drem,;fq  i'adrsa         d
that the naei$'ner, had
actually grwup ')t pon the
bosom of Thjej_                       unt for
the horrible                         dan4 on
springingfi
his breast d £    .d e*                t,,_
.Butwhdxit,                        U
bosouio  i f ri
body ? It is not, ho  ~    evs~    our
*Mr. James Cunningharti,'now reip ~ r  Nevi ~ statesithe aMo A
8twean, arenof these reptiles have been eciiover04 n sasag'e


54              PIONEER LIFE.
answer this question. It is enough for us to know
that just such occurences as we have related are by
no means rare in the experiences of pioneer life.--
Many such instances are left upon record in the
lives of western hunters. We could mention sev-
eral, but will not presume upon the intelligence of
the reader.
After our heroes had despatched the two ser-
pents as already mentioned, they proceeded to the
shanty, which they had forsaken in the evening.
Here they were no little astonished at finding that
they had actually taken shelter upon a den of rat-
tlesnakes; for on removing the shanty and clearing
away the rubbish, their ears were greeted with the
music of this species of the snake family. The bat-
tie soon commenced in earnest, and for two long
hours were our heroes engaged in killing enormous
reptiles.  Philip showed himself a master hand
at the business, and Ruffner fairly roared with
laughter, at witnessing the dexterity of the snake.
hating Philip, and every now and then amusing
him with some Dutch drollery.
Assoon as the work of snake extermination had
b een completed, the two hunters continued th eir
journey down the banks of the Clear. Fork, until
they arrived at the spot where Newville now stands.

j", b.
F    1 1
Y 4  '
[Vol
l' 4i . 4

PILI PRE~AMING.

e'a't 'fj t!
'r 'o
i z it{} r    l
141
Fi11 1 f E;;t,
El
i" Asi lll;l .f
14,
}          a
p j'{{ fi'j tt  5

CHAPTER     X.
HUNTING EXCURSION -INDIAN CABIN-AN ADVENTURE.
 "Oh let me climb those gay clad hills,
Rough,.ruygged though they be,
And nestle by the shady rills,
Or'neath the shady tree.
Ascending the high cliff which overlooks thiM
village, the romantic Philip set himself down ug'n
a moss covered rock.
The morning was beautiful and all nature looked
gay and smiling. The mingled melodies of a hpmu
sand songsters, rang upon' the morning air, To
Philip, the scene appeared the: more delightiu as
he contrasted it with the dreamy horrors of4the
past night. Philip's anticipations of the grand and
beautifull were fully realized. Below him was spread,
ouf the interminable forest-the variegated land-
scape. He had left Ruffner in the valley below, and
he was now by himself on the'highest point of the
bluff, free ,to revel in his own imaginations..
"The forest, the mighty forest ! howit inspires
the mind with emotions too big for utterance  ,
Thousands and thousands of acres, covered with
the most luxuriant Negetation through which brigh-
sparkling waters roll; and on whose banlds are saa
the blending colors of the 'vast family of flowedi
shrubs, and blooming wild flowers. Man may bf}
of himself, of his honor his knerledge and   A


66                . PINEEE LIFE.

greatness, and 'what is he? An insect--a worm--a
mere nothing, scarcely discernible on the grand
panorama of nature. Place the crimsoned robed,
and. diamond decked monarch, even upon this infe-
rior pinacle, then talk to him of power, greatness
and glory-tell him to command and he shall be
obeyed, and he will feel that your words are mere
mockery." The sharp crack of a rifle broke in upon
the young man's reveries, and casting his eyes be-
low him, he discovered a full grown buck, making
lis way up the hill with 4the 'utmost speed, in a'
direct line to where he sat. Philip grasped, his
rifle and sprang behind a tree. As the animal
nea i'the spot where the young man stood, having
somewhat slackened his speed, he discharged his
rifle and the beast gave otie desperate leap into the
air, fell backwards, and expired. The ball had
pierced his heart.,
fluffzier, who' hadheard the repprtpof Philip's
hill,; ascended the ill towards him, not knowing
what :ig ht have happened to him. In a few mo-
4id    hi s eyes a  t' sight of hiip standing
6    the Pfafle m ann aI:
t isf4at lek, artin !" 'e elainied. 'il   arixio
k~o at what he , hd discharged :hie rjfig " I
tppgosI have.finishedthe job which you con -
upced. atthebottom of the hilL,?"
w: I" finishkon ie ownsehobs," tartly replied the
tchedApoot yen I cannot get troo imit him,
den '1cas dr hip."
" Very we1'th en;but what haveDyouukilled?
V   have' It ?tvyust cum and see and
den youcan     h   ier f ur Slf-
Philip aeonpa nig th" tciman to the bottom
of he 'hilihen=he b   el the lifeless foru" o
a gigatie' hear .The aniialwas a m         e ale;of the
W±The ballxomn' Ruffner'. rifle had,
be dr'ien through 'the aonunal, 'having pierced

PIONEER LIFE.              67
having pierced his heart when a few death' strug-
gles ended his earthly career.
Ph'hunters poceeded now to divert the ri
final of t'Heir 'hides. This was-soon actoripi1ished
and their bodies"Were left for the' empty stomachs
ofdhe hoWling wolves, The two' hunters thQrlie .d-
deded lown the banks of the streak, bit without
eting with  any further success, till they carie
upon' the confines of a dense thicket whih tIey
entiere and to their no small astonishment found
a' slitary cabin, vei rudely constructed.* - On en-
tering it ,they found that it was uninhabited,
though bearing marks of having recently been oeN
cupied.
"Vot doh till dish mean!" inquired Ruffner. "Py
shines dish a leetle Inshun house."
"Ah!" said Philip, smiling; "why may it 'not be a
big Indian, as well as a' little one that lived here?"
"Vell", repi d the Du'tehman, "you may 's1pose
him a jeetle or' fpig, yust as you blease, poot Imeans
vots you know without your tam foolishne ss '
" Yes, nes; replied 'Philipl ,;understand .'you
noW   You refer to the size of-the house and not
the Indiai who residedin it."
"'Datish it-dat ish it," replied' the Dutchnan;
and I shpose him leetle house without ter inshun."
"But there isa no, time to lose, here, Ruffinr,"
said Philip, ' w ntust look for game" and.o scyintg
the hunters left' the cabin. Retracing their steps,
they returned in the tirectio  pf the hill ppn
which they had met with such gpod success
morning. ;But ,meeting with ,nogame which , they
considered worth, f their attention, they cqn91 -
ded to seek a shelter for the night, a d  4 athe
dawniOf ,aye  , n horme. 'r
The su had now rnk behind the adja eut blps,
and the shades of night were again ~settin d~n
*T~hi~ cabin was'the habitation of an old Indian- narned Lyons, bein~e Way
conriesed with sweikwhcedand .ahnnyrcake.  Tie is said t. hatve asber up,.
wards~fld~years old, anld was'at the bihrning-of CAL Crawford'


P'IONEER LIFE.                  5

PIONEER LIF U
upon the forest; and yet oir heroes knew      not
wherx.tog'est for the night. In a few moments,
howeve, they caught the sight of  a,,ledge of rocks,
at the head of a deep ravine, and proceeding to
te~sthey discovered a spacious opening, which
running some distance under afforded an; ample
shelter. Having examined the cavern,if such it
may be named, and finding no visible signs of wild
beasts or reptiles, they determined to shelter here
till morning; necessary preparations were accor-
dingly made, and the.- hunters laid down,. But
their slumbers were, frequently disturbed during
the night by the hideous yells of piao6ling wolvgs,
which were enjoying a rich repast on the bodies
of the slain animals.
Morning once more dawned upon the forest;
and with the " early tints of opening day" our
hunters- were astir.   Leaving the cavern, they
proceeded in a north-easterly direction for sever-
aL miles untithey came in sight of a considerable
edge of rocky bluffst. This ledge of rocks is sit-
uated on the road leading now from Washington to
Newville, and near . the residence of Mr. John !T.
Douglas. All things considered they form a most
magnificent and remarkable rocky structure,
Our hunters were soon upon these heights, en-
joying  the hury of a cool and salubious morning
air. To Philip the prospect was one of no little
interest-; and although this humble locality could
not be brought ,in comparison with the garden
vales of Neosha, or the alluvial prairies of Kansas,'
yet t6 his view the prospect was no 'less beautiful.
Herethese blufe, though minature in comparison,
are neverless covered with dense primeval foresIs;
ai doupon these heights another days, the red nan
*This ravine and cavernt ma be seen a short distance~ north-wesit the
presentgite of Newyille, near eriu tlhe land ofJohn Fe~grgs
t~hse havs since beenenorijnated ' Pjpe's Cliffs,' in 'memory o  Dela-
ware chief ot thnt yngme, who resided near Jeromectille,' ini now Ash~n poun-
-ty but formely Richiand county, in 18}2%

I

of the forest had stood, inspired with the spirit of
unobstructed freedom.
"How beautiful is nture," exclaimed tl e roman-
tic young hunter, while Ruffner sat smoking his
pipe, u conscious of the beauties around hin-
"How   beautiful is nature," repeated he, "the
green  earth, the blue heavens, and the wide
spreading forest.  Whether we gaze upon the
mountain's summit, the spray washed shore of old
ocean,:or the flower decked plains, all, all are beau-
tiful and inspiring.  Cast our eyes oyer nature
where we may and a thousand interesting objects
meet our vision. Whether we iten to the low
breathings of the gentle zephyrs, or the frightful
detonations of the bellowing tempest-the glaring
lightning's flash, or the soft and transient lightof
the passing meteor-the iniitable radience of the
many eglored rainbow, orthe evanescent corrusca-
tions of the ever changing aurora-yet in all tlese
we cannot help feeling the highest degree of holy
veneration. Whether we gaze, spon the limpid
waters eof the clear runnin  brooks which trickle
over grass and pebbles alQng their flower strewn
banks,or upon the feaif'ul precipitations of the
awe inspiring catarfe, or the foaming surges of
the sunless deep-ve are ineither case constrain-
ed to acknowledge the sublime teachings of nattae
sowice of infinite gratification  and he whose
soul is so luggish as not to be able to realize such
a overpowering sense-of the beautiful and subliji
is an object of deep commiseration
"Vot ish dat;?" ejaculated the:J ,     pc oipt-
ing his finger towards a coupe of nvoin objects
that were making theirway towards the..pot
where our heroes weresitting. ' "Ainshuns,
shupiter !" and the .Dutchman gragped Jiis rifle
ready for a. combat. In a moment Philip dis-
covered thlmand biad   Ruffer to keep q ut
and follow  him, the t o 'hunters, cautiol  re-

59


0PoNEEi LIE.
treated some distance in the rear of. the oliff, c61-
cealing themselves in a thick'climp }f'underbrush,
which completely hid them, from the sight ofi'the
Indiais; bit from which the'top of the cliff became
distinctly visible, by slightly moving to one side
of the thick foliage.-
It was but a few moments till our heroes discoV-'
ered the two Indians, a man and a woman,. ascei-
ding the rock on which they had just been seated.
As soon as they had gained the submit, the old
Indian, (for such they discovered him to he,) be-
came somewhat agitated, and pointing his finge
to his feet,, exclaimed, in a tone suffiiently loud to
be heard by our hunters, "white man here !-"---
Then casting his eyes around in every direction
he seemed to scrutinize every object, gazing in the .
direction of 'our hunters much more intensely than
in any other. For a moment Philip imagined that
he was discovered. After'the old man had 'satis-
fled himself that no human eyes, apyarentlywere
upon him, he seated himself by the side of the
woman, and, in a low tone of voice, entered into a
long conversation, relating some story or legend,
connected, as our heroes supposed with the history
of this romantic cliff. The 'young woman, (for such
they discovered her to be,)listened very atten-
tively and apparently, at times, seemed much af-
fected, now and then wiping the tears from' her
eyes.
As the old man 'concluded his story,, he bowed
himself upon the rock (the young woman imitating
his movements) 'and remained ,in a kneeling pos-
ture 'for some moments.' Presently 'a 'cloud of'
smoke ascended from the- alter, and the orisons
were over. Descending the rockthe two Indians
again set forward on their journey.
As soon as they were out of' sight and 'hearing,
Philip and Ruffner returned to the rook. Philip's
curiosity was excited' to know by what means the

PIONEBR TL              61 il

old n,'m n detected the "presence of " White m4# ,''as
he tried hi. He examined the face of th 4ock
critically, but wasunable to discour any sigii9'sby
which such, a recognition could be made.
"This is son thin g unaccountaly strng, said
Philip, as' he concluded his earin&amp;tit'T aift
a loss to diseb'r the marks or sigibf Whic that
old Chief, is"I suppose lheii t  b  dte  d our
presene  h ee""        1)l)17
'I dus'nt tnk any tin g sdrd1ge aptitit * said
the Dutchman, at the same time calling ?i sip'8at
tension to, fot'prints inade uo&amp;nthe' soft moss,
which had' overspread the rock.
"Plain enough, Martin, plain enough," sai 'iil
ip,' "and I most heartily accord to you 'a superior
sense of perception.
"Yaw," replied the Dutchmn  -" poot 1shoost
tells you young mans yot. I .i k  about, Y.,  Ven
you get in ter'woods mit your5eyes shut, Yi pet-
ter pe athome."
"Thank you, Martin, thank you," replied Philip,
"I will endeavor to profit by your ad onition. But
certainly I should liketck W t   isfory of that
old Indian. I feel confide   the:Mis something in-
teresting in his history."t
"Veil, veil youngmans   li dtier, "dish
may pe vot you likes, poot  es)$  gapeut all
dis tam nonsense. All       #pm rascal.
I knows more apout te ,«- vot y  s;    fni "."his-
tory," replied Phip-"y               re apout
ter history as I v
"That may all bev r  L          till I have
a curiosity to kni                    the old
Chief and, his dasa good
chance for an adt                    that we
embrace 'the opportnity.
"Vellvot voodt4 : # ; ft.n V'se shust ter
schap for t&amp;r pizPmess?."'."I  .R
-"Well I propose that we ;follow that old Indian,


1%fEI LEE.
nd   certain if possible, who he is an4the nature
f 1Jibusiness in this region. l3ut remember,
thker i. to be nq shooting without a presentation
of actual danger."
"Yaw, y     eaw, police Rufner laughingly, " I
w"l iat y   auisigapout, y ou w nts to sphokemit
tee Ju _rivpnag, mgre.as ter inahun mans."
" Wgjll uflner tp confess the. truth, ypn tare
about hialf rigt, I must own that thegrl has made
a, deep impresion n my mind, as well as the.old
yan h   pgif."
' Py Shuper, .young mans," replied Ruffner,
"vood you makes love mit dat tam inshun vo-
would. altogether depend1upon ircum-
s ei," replied Philip;" But will you aopampa-
lny  epthe adventure
m      teShuot as you blease," replied Ruffner.
udugli'" crime "Philip. and the two hunters
r e  J    - uo'k

i1
A r
" 7,  7'M

C PT. FIR.

4  i  'r    :  C 9  r(
fl  _: '  , ' 7 7.1

CHAPTER XI.

THE 0 IEFTAIN AND HIS DAUGHTEi--AGLI NEST--TJIU {fj
STORM.-- HEILOCK FALLS
"A night of clouds in threatening btackhess hun,
O'er the dark forests of the West,.aud flung
A fearful gloom upon the trickles' woods' --LEES.
From the external appearance of the old    ,
Philipconcludd that he wa some noted       e.
He was evidently-well    cpep withyears.H- e
was remarkably tall,. 9l built i aprJY
very muscular,-he was.kqu ek .in hnsiotions, ''rm
in his step, and fiery fn Egye  liropo &amp;i'
were those of the  ih  es       e sp i pariari's
general deportment 'innri y anddignimed;,s,~
geea                   r .    1fisdress
was of the most shgwy chr cter. On fisi neche
wore a collar of the1ot beautiftil color. . Each
shdiilder wa  a beautifully oran e ae tlier; and
across his breast in a diagonal position,ai fb eund
tight td it,;as his war p +; leastt  o . ' et long.
The young wontn a  Aai giadily
'attired, andnteretingly beauVif1, 1   *as'as
Phig in a ined, a -dlerfec odetion.
St adg efeelig  enter             gtin
boson, making lym nxious o   ri il 41iMid  Of
tly 4teresting Poiuptj,1 H e gg  posedrnt  tobh of
cortir   to    o   .g n pusiitlf pt
were now on theirway.
After starting in puritithip  re Lireetifns

...

,
, ,  , +

1

,, ;
J    "  ,

4
'
,3      ti                  i
r,      '       t     , .,


EONEE, LIFE.

to Ruffner to proceed cautiously, and in no case to
discharge his rifle unless attacked.
Proceeding on the trail of the Indians for some
distance without coming in sight of them, they
halted on the banks of a small stream,* which at
that time was very low. Here all signs of the trail
ended, and the hunters had almost concluded that
the old man had discovered them, and had taken
the greater caution to leave no signs of the trail
behind him. But Philip, who had wandered a short
distance down the banks of the creek, observed a
broken twig on the. opposite side.  Coming to a
halt,}he sat down awaiting the approach of Rhffner,
who, shortly after made his~ appearance on the op-
posite side of the run. Philip joined him by cros-
sing it, and the two hunters once more entered
u on the trail which led across a broken part of the
Kthe sky foursome tie paat hadv  oeov'ercast
.W fh  fragme 1tary ' wicsJ an t h o o  Altsh
f i[hu der  iiicated  an  a .i poaching  stor .  Still
orheroes 'prued     heir way, until the _ again
stuck 'thenbanks ofte lear Fork, a d aft trav-
ing a, sh64t d   upthe"stream., cros .   to',the
onher side.l
ut the  arkies  fheght wa        wsettlg
aunAejn aiid anost fearful stprm was yafbri
o er \10     thep.
Thegeai      Ihnigs were .plpy ng n fepgil
cozrscat    1ig the dark'9orm cloudthat-rose
4wfugy 4limefr m the   estern horippnu   ye~t
our  h ee ' E 4  not  corm ne rn  eightt  of.' thejn dians,
ani the ne   ng darknesshad now     reverted
them fofoowin thtrail.       t was gY ed to
abana   thep h 1 ntfre-an dse'ek shelter frdm
aboutn dni
testorm   'shd.reanid:.' bo       oe oile
ouihof wheri ehr' oser d hStream     eore
*$S' e called Switzer's ra~i which empties into the Clearfork, a sart dis-

I

darkaegs had fully set in,upon them, and their po-
sition was now upon a high cliff of rocks, known as
the "E'agle'&amp; nest."*  Uere they determined to re-
main unilthe fury of the storm had subsided. A
short"distance. in the rear of this cliff wan. a tbigk
growth of underwooa, into which they retired
curing, their persons and fire arms .as best they
could with the :ins of,. the animals they had
killed.
: The tempest was now upon them; and such a
tempest! Heaven and earth "seemed clashing 'to-
gether. Peal after peal of booming thunder bust
from the flaming batteries of heaven.
"Py Shupiter," exclaimed the Dutchman "dish
a tevilish pig shtor  ."  Crack went an elee#io
rocket with theienergy of Omnipotence, and iithe
same instant a huge, oak, standing some distance in
the rear of where they sat, was shivered to pieces,
one of which was precipitated within a few feet of
them. I     ewas 'a fearful crash, and for moment
the,- two hunters seemed'seiblyaeet:e'. the
shock  This astourdii  crash was quickly succeed-
ed b   other, and another, though     at much
greater distances. Next came the sweeping i ds,
bearing down everything in heir courses ' The
noise of their roaring was heard like the heave
and swel of' the   pestosed ocean under t ie
desolating energies of a tropical hurricare.  ain:
and hail were decending in such jrodigioustori-
rents, as induced our hunters to conclude that tle
Prince and power ofthe air " had opened on1e of
thegaes of a supernalcanal, th ouh which flowed
all the waters of the universe,-cetanly,it    s
nothing less than a liquid avalanchesweepingi, opt
of the storm clouds of heaven, and the staayfioa
*'in those days an old eagle hh  built ler nest=utpithis cli ff  lnine whichh 'Zhe
rock has been called "Eagle's Net.' ''his roek rises about 80 feet inper-
pendicular herghtand front its summit is lford.d  niostnab.icent vi wof the
'valley Qf hi  Clear fork~ for somse distapece, T'lip e iffis p a tftehg
bltff whchrun parallel  with'the ptreami.'"  . J1taprtftehg

65

64

PIONEER LIFE.


66                  PiONEEf LIFE.

of the wild war of the elements-the wind driven
rains,hail riven air, flickerig, burning and brighte-
ing, with the astounding thunder crashes and noise
of falling trees, mingled in horrible confusion, echo-
ing with deep repeatings and muffled reverberations,
from hill to hill, suggested to the romantic young
hunter the idea that ten thousand devil drummers
were summoning, with dismal roll, millionn of 'fire
spirits to the world's conflagration.
Such was a night tempest on the bans' of the
Clearfork in 1812,* as witnessed and.;endured. by
those two lonely pioneers.
Philip sat gazing with emotions of' mingled awe
and reverence upon this "elemental war."  He had
never before been'called to witness such a mag-
nificent -and terrific atmospheric' phenomenon, yet
notwithstanding the danger to which he was- ex-
posed, no   considerations would   have  induc-
ed him to have foregone this magnificent 'exhibition
of nature. He had often viewed nature in her mo-
ments f calm repose, had drank dee    from  the
fountains of the hills, and imbibed t pe seijit of the
sequestered"forest, and now" he' had,"for the first
time, seen nature in one ofl'her wildest poxfs3$is.
The winds had now sunk to agetle .gale" the
fury of the storm had passed over their 'heads, and
the silvery stars were begining to shine out upon
the high arch of heaven. Our hunters' arose from
their seats in their humble shelter''which together
with the skins of the animals, had p served themr
against the rfury  the rai and hail,'and advancing
towads the'margin of the bluff, gazed in'mdte as-
tnishment into the fearful abyss below, which
through the'darkness of'the night appeared the
more horrible.
"ot for noish' is dat?' exclaimed Ruffner, as his
ears caught the sound of a continuous. roaring in a
outherly direction from theel.,'  "'
*  his  d is  fresh in the memories of the earlyettlers'who are stilL.
living. in many places over which 'it passed its effects are yet visible.'

PIONEER LIFE.              67
"It is the noise of falling water," replied Philip,
who had also caught the sound as Ruffner spoke.
1itis a cascade in all probability,  repeated he,
and I propose that we direct.our course thither."
"Und, vot you mean py ter gascat?" interrogated
the. Dutchman.
" Why," replied Philip, "a, little cataract, over
which the water'is precipitated."
"Vell, veil, poot I dosh not shtan under vot you
mean 'py ter catrack mit vauter precepty," said
the Dutchman. "Can't you shbeak blain vot I
knows mit out your pig vords ? "
"Yes, yes," replied Philip, much tickled at. the
Dutchman's language. "A cascade or' cataract is
, a water-fall, or a place where the water rolls over
rocks and falls to the ground."
"Veil, den," replied Ruffner, "ve vill go und see
dish, vot you calls him ?"
"ascadeanswered Philip.
.  Yaw, dish gascate.
Accordingly the two hunters directed their steps
in the direction ofthe qnticip4ted waterfall. They
had descended the clif and entered,;the valley,
leading in a southerly direction. The nearer they
approached, the more audible ,became the sound.
A deep and gloomy ravine lay before them, which
they entered, following it up .for some distance,
The.roaring of the water, echoing in the ravine
i' the darkness of night, was quite deafening.
Alarge quantity of rain had fallen, and this was
now.pouringin tor ents over the   broken rocks.
After our heroes had proceeded some distande.up
the ravine towards the 'falls, dtheydiscovere  t
their no small- astonislnent,:the faint glimmerings
of tight shining through thethick foliage of. the
tree,
'Py Shupiter,' exclaimed the Dutcliman. vident-
ly.~ lttl  frighten ed,' "ye ish going intoade.9


l1

PiONEER LIE.
ro pers. Dat ish 'burty tark,- tevelish  looking
".f sispicious looking locality," replied Thilip,
" lut I am anxious to learn its character, and I
think we can succeed much better now-than if we,
wait till morning.  As to this place being inhab-
ited by robbers I have no fearsof that. But there
may be a body of Indians encamping here. If so
they will not attack us now. LpV us proceed cau-
tiously til, we discover the nature of this light.
The adventure may be dangerously but the ad-
vantage is on our side, we will be under cover of
darkness, and if we discover the company to be too
numerous, we-. can retreat unnoticed. If they are
Tnadins, it is evident they do not anticipate the
approach of an enemy to night, as they have their
fires burning."
"Vell," replied Ruffner,u I ish ageet to any
ting tot you ish," so saying the Dutchman reprim-
ed his rifle, making all things secure in case of any
emergency.
Our heroes now approached; under cover of un-
derbrush, theplace from which the light proceed-
ed. The -noise of the failing water gave'then .an
opportunity of advaning without being heard.
The nearer they ap}p:oaohed the falls, the more.
parent thelight appeared. After coming within
several yards of the falls, they discovered the
light to proceed ffrm  behind them, which' made
the, jrecipitatig'flood appear more  rand and
picturesque. As they halted 'hoe frder  few mo-
ient in .oer to cisely scrutinize the place,
Euffher discovered t1e huge ,form of an inidig ,
standiig some ,ew feet in advance of hi~bg
fragmne~it of a rock"that lay shortt distance to the
one side of the Nascade.'
"iJnslun!" exclained iRuffner, in a somewhat '4g-
itated tone of' vaict, hei'nstantl the Ilgri was

Pro1 ERL1 E.

69

Indian glided behind a rock and was lost to'sight,
At first Philip thought that the Indian 'had heard
the voice of Ruffner, but then again hb knew that
the roar of the falls would not, permit the sound of
ten such voices to become audible from the distance
where he stood, and as to their being discovered,
where they were, under cover of such deep dark-
ness, it was out of the question. Under these con-
siderations, his fears were dismissed, and they still
continued to advance towards the. light, until they
came within ten steps of the'rock upon which they
had seen the Indian. Here they paused, and a
consultation was held, in which it *as.'agreed that
one of them should advance upon the rock referred
to, and with the utmost caution examine the place
and discover if possible the position of the Indian.
This adventure was so ie ' bold, and perilous,
and was undertaken byh iip, while Ruffner was
to cover his retreat in  of an attack.
Philip gained the sockiunobserved, and unmo-
lested, when to his no small astonishment, he dis-
covered the objects of: hidday's pursuit. There
behind the cascade in a,   acious cavern,* which
. ran some distance under the. rock; sat the old In-
dian and Wha 'Philip now supposed his daughter.
Returning to uffner he communicated his discov-
ery to him; when it was"'agreed upon that both
should enter the cavern at the same time, with
the butts of their rifles foremost, so as to create as
little alarm as possible among the Indians. Ac-
cordingly they proceeded   boldly, to the rock,
when a piercing scream from the young maiden
aroused the old man who sat smoking his pipe
with his face turned in an opposite direction, and
springing to his feet, confronted the two hunters
with uplifted tomahawk.
*This romanti ldoality has since been denominated "Mempilock Falls," and
is often visited by the young people.  "Pio nio parties," often meet here, and
on some Qoeaaions, political meetings are said to have been held here. These


70              PIONEER LIFE.

" I am the Indians friend," exclaimed Philip, ad,
vancing towards the old man with extended hand.
This was enough.      The old man     dropped his
hatchet, grasped his hand, and bidthim a hearty
welcome. A similar reception awaited the Dutch-
marg.
CHAPTER XHI.
HEMLOCK FALLS--THE CHIEFTAIN AND HIS DAUGHTER
Compelled by warringelements to stay,
T~hey-sought a shelter till the storm was o'er,
In a dark cavern, on the Clear Fork's shore;
Far through the gloom extends the peeping light,
Fringing the sabledrapery of night;
Rushed the rude storm; as waters dashing o'er
The cataract, with 4eep astounding rear.
",Hemlock FaIls," the place where weileft
heroes and the Indian in the.preceding chapt
situated about two miles south-east of the  re
site of Newville. These Falls are indeed mo
teresting. The water pours over a precipi
about seventy-five. feet in height, imping
rock to rock until it reaches the bottom, whic
strown over with fragmentary rocks, evidently
tached from the hights above. Upon the to
the ,bluff, over which the waterdescends, stan
large Hemlock tree, its roots being interwoven
rocks. Viewed from below, this tree present
mostfearful sight. It seems to riseuward an
the clouds, standing upon a merepoint of an o
4       ..arching                r ock. Ascending this tree, and pa
your eyes' from the top into the abyss below
view becomes truly horrible, and it require
ordinary amount of fortitude to perform the es
ment.
These Faitls, when viewed uder the soft
mellow light of thernoon;reeminds one,of The p

r
our
er, is
:sent
st'in-
ce o'f
from
wh 'is
y de-
p of
ids, a
with
its a
iidst
ver-
sting
the
sno
peri-
and
oetic


-descriptions of the fairy lands, where spirits and
elves assemble to hold their nightly festivals in
the still moonlight, which falling upon, and through
the checkered curtain of green, gives, enchantment
to 'the view. Such is but a faint description of this
natural curiosity, as it appeared to Philip at the,
period of this adventure.
As our hunters entered this cavern a bright bla-
zing fire, the light of which falling with an en-
chanting softness on every object around them,
gave the place an aspect of thg most fascinating
and dreamy beauty. Overhanging, this arching
entrance, and creeping out of the crevices of the
rock. above, came down .a thick curtain of wild
vines, interlaced and commingled with luxuriant
honey suckles with their bright colored blossoms,
fringing the front, of the cave on either side of
the falls.
But the' most beautiful sight which met theVision
of.the young man, was the young Indian maiden.
Her eyes: .met hisEas he :entered the cavern,
revealing to him as he imagined, a hidden world of
brightness and sunshine.
"Old       said Philip, after the party had  ur-
rounded the fire.   '1 hope we have not given you
any offence by our intrusion here."'
"None whatever," replied he in broken English,
"this place is asiuch 'th  rproperty of the white-
man as of the Indian. The Great Sprit whonl the
christians call od has created  the white man as
well as the Indiqn, ranting "both the right 't be
fryq aidunmoieted in the pursuit of happiness.
"eerabj   man," interrogated Philip, "are
you Tm  possession of the character of the hristian's
QoM"
"I am,"Answered the old man, and taking from
hibo n    copy of the New Tesametpresented
Sto B1highp, sayin~g- "here, sir, is a trauseripV of

.I

d@4N~%oi~otmif oeWWrtjdtagi
%%dt.'buirod aoda esow medmnH 4 ddh gnoms hb
"From whence didW #1I%46%el4 Y*f
9  e    Pq dPI  f'. sin o o
rThbef1'dg1M%
t ~e Wia
i e tr  i g     he    t~  con
iffe                rr Si  n sit{
ih'~~9 A,6jgr
'gu   YI   du   i  (" t      T  9  '
l7ingu[9rveret  t L
4                T.
liu a ysoarrie4ocif1e  ir  down
og  hatchets, sand 98  8at :1 3P
up tr  i at aff t         ain ec
F pnfsorn -ke r.es an h alld .s unor'
sonn                ? t1e61 e o
99  ""  ' 94  Y, dI    a
wayscarrie  erred pora
"C  su' 8 l'd i  t  e    e
u  t  e l  t i e stl iair  e
theairinvetertf.o? Nord.  y  re  a
aj  dker rta  t h b  Bod  nefriy v  bd
'hWVere fW tio      , tdEih
e  eof wicked es ';,an  shall, do so no m
dl  1edgl lii'V  ref69s
g  Apf19d  /b. Fha sy  Y e
but h  action di   ur
. l                oae  im.

72               PIONEER LIFE.


756

"                  WE.
agains- him from the; vi1ag  of Gnadenhutn,
and among that number were .those bound tome
by 1edea  st assoiation."_
As the old man concluded thie reply Philip
thu ht. he detected emotions of grief within his
b   aua he therefore deteri ned to change the
oi( y atyn Q n pome other to1? Philip had o-
servedag:agur  he conversationn, that the eyes of
the  aiden hadfrequently been cant upon iun, apnd
h n gined a pecuh  meaung in hey bewitching
glapes. Changig the conversation he remarked,
tsaloeUty is rea1y romantic.".
"Ye" replied te old man," there is not anoth-
er uch spot along this atrea m"
"None like it that I haves een," answered the
young man. 'But it has been suggested to my
mind that this locality might have been the the-
are of some important event connected with the
history of Indian life."
Your sug&amp;ation," replied the old man, "is not
unfoudd a    this place, to myself at least, Will
eetr be held in sad remembranc .'
'AU   indeed," replied Philip, "tlhe  some
trous 'eent has, occurred heare, yin goney
t   memory of which yet casta gloom  over your
ndd"
"Nay, not immediately here," replied the Qld.J
man'ticit some few miles distant; though this'
pl999ndn somehat connected with t is' horri-
ble tragedy.     .
a                     the li on
a Moment, Philip's mmnd turned to the cliff o
which he had seen him in the afternoon, and anx-
i     =u l learn the particulars of this event, he thus
addre ed the odd Indian: ,
r It ibut du6 toth  taus  of}truth to state 'here, that bit few instances are
left on:record in whi a white man as been tried and executed for the murder
Ofa s nian. COlaJhnson says thatIni a period of, 53 years; sjnc e1  cmine to
ha est he never r . ew hat one instance, in which a white man was tried,
gieke~dpxecttd forths murderfof an Inding~. The mnurderaf h~u-
ers, tree whiteswere wrmitiod to escape fa prisn.

Venerable Sir, it would affordre the nSot e'
halted pleasui'e to leanr the hitory of ybiru-life, id
partic lilrlf the iiiides Ifo the imemoible eVit
to which yeu refer. Thee is nothingWhih affords
me more "pleasure than to learn wisdom and 'i ,
structioni' at the feet of those 'whose ohsevMioi
and experience1 entitles them to the "ro'tid of
instrctots of youth. Sir, I am now fully convinced
that true philosophy is only obtained throgh ob.
ser ation and 'experience. Andc, insease it would
not be derogatory to your feelings, a history of
your life; and the events connected' with  dit.  id
be a source of infinite -satisfaction to myself, and
prove an acceptable and instructive diff6rig to my
race.
"At present, yong man," replied the' old In-
dian, I am not prepared to give you a positive
answer. If you have no objections #e will 'retire
to 'rest, and in the morning I shall be pt i&amp;l tao
answer you fully."
Accordingly the 'arties lay down to rest."nut
it was some timebefore Philip' could' 'falliaslp.
The noise of the falling water,° s oudei1ng Ui
kept him  awake for sont finigie duidiig *idh ,IB
thoughts would -ocei sionally turn  b The idisn
girl.                          5 att
Morning came. . Bay light had 'spread hrvogy
wings over the-forest, aandthe mingled meiodi8.t
the woodland mintels' wre 'floating A  hpondht
morrdag atir.
Plikp and his comtrade hadiefn, asdtweabout
to- step outside of the cavern to view
spot by the light ofsday, wh ia -lonud Cad :e
shriek once nore rang through th  oate1n ,
ew wer turned towad    the girl; _ nilD n an in-
stant tihe object 'of Fe alarns was r'i
nethe .nke   4  Philipt  htde S.'
m.onieri 'dis.haigfhi' ri1, d befiarm  it cd
tents in the head of an enorm6na *hke,*hi

ILI


0ll&amp;BNN9 Ke450% WF:AP 31  P,9E ,t(th3Tiegy wo-
141V- 91thetif" W4qigRogigUygUdlog(ngd
p~ebeiliyen4eerpj~is dy1wip a9#9 rxifB'3j
qf9N#C9%iS ade9t agigs~     yfyieMA
e     opeviousrocion.i
~~~~~f~~*4 tga~4 Jf~~'rjon
ago  #tayy9e'fo tr .lashgo ayIp
Thetwhutersknw stepped tsidehe cer
280982419g4vjqigtift.A eggsgglealyi
"Y!ng manai9dWt0he    lndiaseheggp
ed "on a previous occasion.
rPent moJ9k - svi~goS b 91 q ton ma I psib
esil#mak,   hRt,4%if eit     j9folthyy
ago as tay, pefore ter lasht tay,.ppgggggi
.q .d S3 °4i il thid f  hypajdagd1 i
BETM01&amp;19H# BrRy$Ia%9W6H9%!u Iw ad goa
The two hunters now stepped outside the cave aa
gesysp ato l;alm~g  dgite siogrthaad Cs,
ifaliFilbo, dredb6sati drah dbesygleyguiyr
a3fanilsp, edhatamfedeaadddE at fsbbem. oddi
" Young man," said the old Indian,;  edhi'p
lddrit1 d 9i94aeg  a4 treb geq~irdby
eteingM#iyiu  x Q~uneshis rF tody W oign di
sidjetpfeggigingeatbl gitti~vfit gi ok" c
q[. I is t yetep M*    tmthrosinek
etstaBugi g i ra nlilmiekny~fs 9es 6
event mogetdptziriigesodstbd yaam
4 y Hb iacolpapdyg iegegnggy mg/gg~egtfingep~flity
na9._ar A~ff%9 f599$A%&amp;  f T.m;,kW .a49r t.

To this Philip readily consented, well', knowing
the place to which he alluded; and after partaking
of some venison and corn bread, the whole party
set out for the cliffs, where they arrived about the
middle of the forenoon.
In a few moments our hunters with the two. In-
dians were all seated upon the same rock on which
they had sat the proceeding day. The old man
then commenced his story, relating every particu-
lar'as it came in turn. His language was broken,
yet perfectly in gi[IA-    as his narative
is of a highly interesting character, and confirmed
by the testimony of historyrwe have no doubt, but
a transcript of it would be acceptable to the
reader.               .-.. . K K . y:,J!
dd  11                   ~1l~rn  { t . - y
r r        ". "  p   rr
ia 'n )  20 byr* ± -7a1+AA J i' Af"'Ii  ,
T1T
u5jj n1 J' iii BaB 3ne )311 an9  d ( l  e 8ofb
monj(  but97 '1AI a n~  '14d o vFHa    Q}ho
r ik  7  i3',! ?  i r    :a  ko  A  ,d  e te e  ,  d
Tfa Rtm 1 us  1fr  e .6r)  so    .p tt  - it}odi ,:;  na'f
r     .flLr I   I  A.  '
P ng  s        d°1 a  i M  Asui  sg.'d
rn           t "T mr. c; d   bo 113   TV
k"1 s d   8 !- 1 iih d  f   ,'~.+ ?i  i  114f   Bi M 3 I  J  .4ff  iiWL }  +
t 8   1 t  ti. j "' 7j TI  ' l-1.   p1 1  ?h lB ' j E   'i'  l4  f  { P  t Ii  t

PIONEER LIFE.

77


CHAPTER     XIIU.
CAPT. PIP12.
In' this romantic region of the west,
Dwelt the poor Indian-nature's fearless child,
The rightful tenant of this native wood.-
Where roams he now? liar in the spectre land of setting sun.
UR Tribe," commenced the
old man, , many years ago,
inhabited the Valley of the Schuyl-
kil, away towards the rising sun.
It was a lovely region. The bright
waters of this beautiful stream
rolled between banks studded with
the most charming flowers. Here
our forefathers -lived for many
years, undisturbed and unmolested,.
until the white man came among
them.   Then arose quarrels, and
many.were murdered on both sides.
At length our fathers were overpowered, and for-
ced to leave their hunting grounds, their wigwams,
and the graves of their fathers. They then emigra-
ted to the Valley of the Susquehanna, and from
thence across the Alleghenies to Ohio, settling
down in the Valley of the Muskingum. I was but'
a small boy at. the time.  Soon after we came to
this region, Christian Missionaries came among us.
They'established three stations on the Tuscarawas
River,   The names of these stations or villages

?1oNIE  LIFO.             79
were Shoenbrun GOnadenhutten and Salem. They
stood' in'beautiful locations; It was herethat
I   rt learnedY the true eharacter of the Great
$ iri.The efforts of the Missionaries were paving
the way for the civilization' of our race. .While at
this station my father and mother both died""in the
Christian faith. Shortly afterthis sad4eveit a war
broke out between the American white people and
the nglish. When my parents iedI swad about
18'years of age, 'and with' a-sister younger' than
myself were the only members of the family living.
Immediately after the death of our parents, my sis-
ter' and myself, in company with 'several others,
left Gnadenhutten for the village of Wappat~mioa,*
on the Muskingum. Here we'lived for some tine,
passing the time away in hunting' :and fishing.
bout thecommencenent of, or a short time be-
fore the 'Revolutionary Wr a party 6f wJites cee
upon us to give us batte. WeW had been arised
of their approach'the day before the   einet.
About 'O of our warriors met'thiem abo  ,&amp;miles
from the village.  soon as the army' ea;  to
where we lay, (being in ambush,) we'on
them, and had the satisfaction of se  e  of
them fall. We then attem     to trre  antors
1'e river, but were prevented by the  te snti-
nels. We finally succeeded in es capag gour
women and children from the village; w he;ie
soldiers entered it they set fire to 1 and  U itjt
down- 1and then proceeding to other villagaset
thien  lso on fire, the inhabitants having p evious-
ly  capn ed 1fthe woodst
As soon as the army had left our eoutry  e
retned to our towns;hbut Qnly Vsfi1
r 4nR:The sigh of our :4sserted and dgsolAtvi.-
g&amp;e xm.a:e .W franti:With rage.W  vowee
16miesbeowth*p.aen si        eCsct
+II*3danaoedL-O t


aleledin.the history of Indian wrongs.  4 efer
the ntrder of Qadenhutten Indians.   roxa tet
day tothe treaty of Greenville 1Wan inyeterate
foeto the whites.  I was in the battle of 1.
"lair's defeats and also in the battle of the  i&amp;.
of the Lakes, where Gen. Wayne so nao bly.,i3 t.
guished himself. We thought there never waanageh
an other 5ian as. Wayne. Our ;warriorsstootin a e
of hiu. After. the treaty of Greenyille Lcanato
this region of Ohio, where I have remained eyer
since.
A few years wft\er my sister and myself ANft
Gnadenhutten for the Muskingum, she narrideta
young warrior naied "fRound Head " and on6hee-
ing"bf the murder of the Gnadenhutten Indiins,
she and.her husband and one child at her breast'
in company with several others left for the"Sa-
dusky COuntry.' On their way thither they halt-
ed upon t/i&amp; lejlge af rocks, and were seated where
we now °et, when they were fired upon by
of  hit6* killing my sister and her child, and
slightlywounding two others.' The ball had pass-
ed through the bodies of both mother and chilg
n springing to her feet, she fell headlonggoier
this cliff among' the 'rocks below, a lifelesscorpe.
The others escaped, and aft eietreating  6e 41 i.
tance, remained in ambush till night4 whe ; .t hey
reconnoitered the country around the rocks. nfor
some distance, but finding no signs of their enaan
ment, they approached the cliffs, and foiundboth
the mother and child scalped Then presshgg :
ward theyarrived in the Sandusky Countrya  few
days aftet'wardy'bringihg me the sad new.o4 g
sister's :death. This inhuman o outrage inoeeed
my hatredstill niore against the*hite  eerace.r
The -bodies -of=both' Mother and child li h ied
S    p isu , dtha thismurder'waes, committed  by a party  f Scour
lotging t&amp;  co.hBC fh-adtrpedtin against the'vl 'krIa  f =h  F rk~ &amp; i

and was soon placed 'at t e- A dt1  R   d it
rt&amp;igOgu sowAa koti t'' yandowed de..-
terA4iW4el J{k t!9egaur~gaeon etebyrauty
4diht sodidie~yhed' iFa m  ihgbydherbetght
of much importance occurred, I now come to an
manity'and. cold hbo&amp;ed  tb    audmar

PIONEER LIFE.

81


S2             rPoNrEaLti
nongtheserocks; uiitte place wh re they. lie
+t }rigaint':kown to the white man.,AThislo-
eality i0indeed fcred to me, and beforeaavng
h country, erhaps forever, I determined tovisit
the s    in connection with thercaveAin which'you
foad us, where my sister and her husband had
ioamped,"the night previous to her death -  e In
tha tiernrsheslept her last earthly sleep  in a
feweeks, &amp;r perhaps daysI shall leave.this i'e
gidn, and i all probability Ishall never;again be
permitted to visit it. Tlzis is my history, andIam
t  'dne   Plilip was deeply interested ia the old
~n's  foryduring th recita of wh4i, &amp;e yes
o:dhe JIndian were mostly fixed upon him.  he
yog maiden; too was seen to cast pon hi. oc-
saaional enquiring glances. In  pm parts. o  ethe
,, native she seemed deeply effected. When the
o'4df1indian had finished his story heaie   from his
featfo6 rthepurpose of continuing his journey, mo-
t o     dto tel young lady to follow him.
"One more question," exclaime a Philip, seeing
aol1man about to retire, "your name, if you
"They call me Capt. Pipe, answered he, maidly.
atap t.Pipe, of Jeromeville?" 'enqubAed
nised yong hunter.
Wheise, sir," answered the I    ian  "My
naie  Capt.Pipe, and this young lady is my
~op~edaughter,"
:" Aid isit psible," exclaimed the yotng man,
head the honor' of conversing, with. so
distinguisheda Chieftain as Captipe?    have
ttheard yousir, spoken ofis onefthe bravest
nda   arriors that. ever marched. into a field of
bIe.lt ouldaffordrme mnuh "pleasure,sirto
continuee myaequa itaane with 'youl"
SYourfg mn," relied the 'Chieftain, :e cabin of
4&amp;ie is eere open 'o th     e     a~ of the -
whteman.  i.anow his friend, and if youshoud

83

pass by my cabin without calling upoi me, j.should
feeldhat you were unworthy of my respect."
"Captain," answered Philip, It will give me the
greatest amount of pleasure .to call upon yu,and'
since yot have thrown down the hatchet, anl pia-
ced yourself under the protection ofnte white
race, I for;one shall forget the past, ai d
your rights."
The .old man grasped the hand of Philip, a tear
stood in his eye, and after gaing.upon him foray
moment,; evidently much effecsted,-he said:
Young magl, you are an honor' to your 'race.
May the Great Spirit, be your protector, The
blessiag of Capt.Pipe be upon your head. I shall
expect to see 'you at my cabin before I leave,;this
region."
"You shall not be disappointed," replied-Philip,
and the parties separated.' The old man an4'his
daughter descending the eliff'were oon rlost to
sight in the, deep, forest, leaving the two hunters
to pursue th eir journey alone.
"Rufiier," said Philip, after they had goge a
short distance homeward, "I have had serie
strange thoughts sine seeing those two "ndians.
There is, in my opinion, spme mystery" c64neoted
with their histQry, especially that of theyoung
woman. She is' certainly a handsome Indian' to
say the least of her."
"YeDIJ Itinks you ish a shtrange feller, apghow,
always shbeaken your tam foolislness mit tese ed
tevils,.. en de puggar vos .shbeakenapout his
tan tidoesit hisli   aeson tervite beobek i
vos. ;o tars mad as I could be mit out shumpin oo
upd town and drainpen ot his 4ngm eyes out.
"Ah ! but Martin," replied Philip, "he is a poor
Indian, he and' his people have been wrnged, and
he is now a friend to the whites and will 'deernd
their; eause. "        ',~

PIONER, LE.


v/ii     ishet him        ihy.Pi~
"oe     l dst ish dru-dat i0h drue, und
sh, ose ve must  inshgeot hiinfordish-i, sid-te
D tehi  {t'i i ii somewhat softei tone of vOice,
" loe  not a co   edhun from the shenral ikule,
I". deslhnot like dese Inshuns; tinke r are';ntore of
tenamraecal, as more vot aint."
"That is'true," repliedPPhili'"bt this old f i
low must be an, exception in our hostility to the
raise. And as for that beautiful girl no rnn, friend
or foe, shall harm.a- hair of her ,head; besides,
Martin, I have cone to the orhision t opy the
old Chief a visit and inform myself as to her origin.
Bon't you reinember he said she was his adoptee
daughter. Thereis somemeanin in this."
rV ob ter tevi is ter 'matter mit- your prams
now," ejaculated the Dutchman, "shposen h  did
say topted tagh'ter,' vot of dat."
"Why Martin" said Phiip," "I have thought, from
that that sheis not of Iudian origin."
"Vot you mean py ter orishun;" enqMired the
Duitchman, with a vacant stare.
Wlg I mean," said Philip,w"that she i a ihite
girl.
"A vte gal! cried Ruffner, looking at the young
mndith n&amp; little astonishment, and evideiugtl
doubting his aity-"; a vit g.,11," repeated he,
'"my Cot, fr vot tyou talk so tain fdolish? A' t
gall 'nit an Inshun face! Der ish about asich
vrite gall in di8 Inshun vonian, as dere ishVater in
ter bottomless pit!"
"4Well" replied Philip, "evei3rohe to their''vn
pnin,,asthe saying is; and Y he ho6crtin
Mairtin,'t6 you enjoying  ours; but I  a hmost
positive  hat there is not a drop of Idit  1 b
in herbody."
~Heke the onmestioni of the huintid d6puctd
the girl aded, Mi~d theyr continued athif *
.through 'the forest meeting with nothing of fiter

PIONEER LIFE.

85

est until they arrived at the Cabin of' Mr. Seymour,
some time' in the afternoon.
Great was the rejoicing of the family on their
entering the Cabin, as during their absence they
had felt no little uneasiness concerning them.
Kate particularly, had had an unpleasant. dream, in
which she had seen them writhing in the agonies
of death under the tomahawk, and scalping knife.
As soon as the hunters. had arrived, Kate com-
menced the preparation of 'an.eening meal, which
was completed in a short time; and when they had
satisfied the demands of theiriappetites, Philip re-
lated the particulars of their; hunting adventure.
He gave Kate a full description ofithe old Indian
and his daughter, representing the latter as the
pergsnification of beauty and lo ee
"Eow much I should love to see.rfl Nr
S f yoturs,"said Kate, after hea ring Phiipns p
tioti of her personal charm. " Inde ii1  inuned
shy, "if your representation .e cor 4   would
be, proud town her as a si8se.
"Thank you Kate, thaniyngu for' e1:    ' of
encouragenaent," said Philip'in ecsta  '   bet-
tain yow ;,would love her, for. she is a I  "
tiful'' Ier choice is sweeter than . 5eetst
strains of the A olian harp of Greei*2
her monv~nents are graceful ande#  &amp;     1  no
Kate, she is a roysterious being."
4.dy so, the old Chief:gave you an nyitation.
tp visit I:4n in.his pabin  Ne;How I.,should dnjoysiueh
,avit'ad Kateplayfully.,
' PTo, gr tif aioti'shall be dexged  !a sister' re-
ied Philip, ifIlin. my pow r to. sif yoi de
sires."
'Thargkyou,brother," replied the a eenae
s:er sad the conversation  s { o k  -ea
t*ange of the notable J  yhn2plesqed.,;* *
* !  f  ?,    ,  4t   " t    f, .' ,. *'  .  ,, *  '/  1  r  .  Y J ''i4 6 !


CHAPTER XIV.
HOME 5CRES.  -
Each poor conceited mortal has his failing,
And I have mine-can't mend it tuch by ailing."
JOHNNY     Apik   ed' had
rnot forgotten tovigit the
cabin' of Mr Seymnour every
evening during the absence of
Philip.  Not knowingthat the
young hunter had retired hone,
he had come as usual to spend the
evening with the family.
alr1Well, tN r. Chipmar," said
Pip, after biddignhuiii a good
eveniiig and a heartywelcome,. 'I
ppose by iths tie you haVer
converted thehole family, and
particularly youf . vite,s ter
R ae   aoe heart ou kiidwkis s ft nd t cder,
a d Ju7 &amp; yibte   fe ivri Divinre'iiny { is  sF
The eyes of both Ijate u4d Johihny ere iiked
up9tdie y6uoi ii i   hes oke, anid bdth Wee
if $   jef  but E e g ave'v way'aA lnn'y
proceeded.f
'"Young  nin ' saidine in  i sdate-andxserious
rf  1ddd WGod thatyi hurar wasonly
half as sof  ayuad  , the wn  d' idulgte
cheering anticipation of your conversion also:.
Philip fairly sunk under this cutting rejoinder

I.

I

Pion, in'LinZ

87

and K&amp;te gave vent to a hearty laugh. The Dutch-
man, too, seemed highly pleased, while Pinp emil-
ed, evidently"' dumfounded.?'
" Mr. Slhaprhan," said the Dutchman," I tinks as
h6w you ish nishdaken yin:ter young mans. Dere
ish a great change in the fellow-hissen hefrtiish
soft enough since you shbeaked mit ahiin-ter
-voods.'4
Johnny, not knowing of Philip's interviewwith
the old Chieftainland his daughter,: and sP posing
that the admonition he had given hin in he wpods.
at their last interview' had/been. "seedy o  nin
good ground,' cam to the conclusion' thatiasefig -
ious change had really been effected in the yotiug
Man's} heart, and wishing to offer him every .ei"-oour-
agement; mildly replied: I
"Wel since your: heart is made the d jeet of
Divineinfluece, young manI :fondly hope you
,Vill growing gracer day by day mAr il ye'u   b4oQ a
wuring fathar in-the Irael of thisforest". xr
Philip's mind during the admonition hadwander-
ed hack Eto th 3ck onhichh e had, found the
lovely Indian maideii, aidr far a ma met}{a lit
in reflectiofi,but on;hearing his name:associated
with that of 'Father,' roared out in amst ooifer-
ons manner:
"Whiatthe thunder does all this mean  Who
calf me afatker in:Is elf "
t*ate seeing theiidicirbus position of Thip., and
they:stonished :loks',of Johnnyi who stodd gazing
upon the confused young mxan, .unable topcompre-
hend his meaing-ndulged 'ina, hearty laugh,
while:thffriewti-apeculiar twinkle:of Eismith
provoking Jeyestigepted. :
}lAiM Spap ram      'g ngan's 'ea iyoking
unter1 gregt 4eng,  is hange ha p   of e  ter
fetle:ince le s e a erishel iter   p
"AhiZ.n rephedjebrnny, "and so ry asin Mn,, ,
ydug f! w  .#-   R} ,Aeadialeititualdidtati

4

y  ,  ,


88

:PON BR lTI '

But before hehad time to finish his sentence,
iphi  sprung to his feetex liiig:.
Enough, enough Martin,.-:1.a knowledge my.elf
be en." Then turning to Johnny, he gave him a
brief account of:the adventure with the old Chief--
taink and his daughter
"Ah Iindeed," paid Johnny, after hearing ?hilip's
account of the two Indians. "That old man is an
honor to his race:. A -morekind hearted and
peaceable man is no where to be: found. I have
lodgedirith him many a:night, and have ,enjoyed
myselfmost agreeably in his company. And a ' to
hisadaughter, she is one sweet child, fit for a King's
wife."
"Mr. Chapman,? said Philipafter listening with
no little delight at Johnny's- ,ilogium upon the old
nam.pd his daughter, "if I had no other evidence
of:ynpiety and sincerity, your high regard for
that young woman would be sumcient, forno maan
can appreciate her virtues, who is not himself ,a
virVtiog5 thing "
It wasithnuchaelight that Jonny heard.
Philip.peak tijnefever of at:least one of this
po o r 4gra4ea  mueh abused ,rm e of pe sle, as
he supposed they were. 1.     1
"Philip," said he, I am glad your min is really
undergoing a chage respctjeeg1 is people, .nd I
hope yet to find in you an advocate of their rights."
" O.hapman," replied Philip, my views of
Indian.character have not undergone any chang ;
I ook upon this people'now as I have always done.
They are crtaelr:and'atreacherousbut I am free to
acknowledged these traits or dispositions are the
effects of example, set them by. the w. ps"
" Shelernafs,"eplief Rifrie, "eeittob
standd op-, hi h apttome sad O1tind 'i rsle
ish no verse, i .I d6s not likes.ter preed. an
shen : a ashun}do v tyg blase mit hit '.
" This felinei~rl Rffuer, rslied Jihnny; Mi-

89

sensual, carnal andsinful, ad peculiar t ' all jue
geerated minds.
"And sO you are acquainted with Oi't.  Pig
and his beautiful daughter ?'eng-ui+dd Phiip; Wiyh:
ing to change the subject of there cover ati ,s
" Ye," replied J ohnny, 01know t1he   1 well." I
oftencall upon them, and a1ay  receive hearty
welcome. The old man isireligiously inlihed 'and
possesses an, amiable disposition, though,'unde
deep provocation, heis-feaful 'Asfto hisa1ghter;
I have thought that there asoine hidden =nstierp
cineted. with her history  She inote hisreli
daughter buts  to kher Qigin.I have nothing defi
"' Well," said' Philip, "the old mann has iwhited
me to, pay dhi a visit nd if possible fintend tQ
get her true history.
I                 laearfil," replied  oh  t4 apt'ygYvil
not succeed ; thogh there is no teigo~ ataita
y till you-try."
" Well:4replied Philip, "you may restas .red
that I wil certain endeavor to Ad.gtlJhat
I can about the young woman's hitory"  Were,
upon the conversation respeeti'g the;'ead ae
was brought to sel.se,.and oter togespertaiag.
to a wild r ess life were digso s  'in which;.Thhb..
ny Appleseed acted a conspicuous pa$
1An arrangement had also been      e between
Philip, and the  D tqlpnan to -isit the ebhin ff  pa
Pipeinafew days..
It was sometime after nightfall before the. oum
pany retired to -rest  The c6n  e satiot4habaen
both ausing'-andiryteresting, a d the whiKle men
pany  felt  loth nto 'sa parate. ;''s d f  's dd
ligt    hiaales f nighetha paosd 'asapp id~ e'
ligh of anothe' Iorfnng'Watrtd       in iig
forest, befo t f bis inmate6soth&amp; hi'betd}W
arose frein their bliehnber. Kat, hwenh~dte~n
up frai'netine.a She ''as' ou "all  adiost and

1
,
5
Y
V
Y
)
E .
A.
7
;r

Is

PIONEER LP

S
5
t
t
s
n


90'

?O~j~ER r415.

esaily Ngr, e   s.d  n this moruiig be'g. awakened
by the mingled melodies 'of the early songsters,
sheyhad arisenbsfore ayof the inmates, and was
poring forth the melody    a her pWn sWt voiee
to minglewth thatsof the   here minstrels.
"Thej voice of an angel' criedgJolnny Apple-
seeksl asthe musicc of Kate fell upon his ear, rous-
ing hinfr'om his slumber  Johnny .had evidently
beenadreaming of.:heaveti, and.had mistakenithe
voice of.Kate for that nofan angel.:Springing from
his:be hedressed himself, and went;' down stai's,
where ihe foundmthe fatilyiall astin.  recently
Kate rmadk-here-a aanee with a-pail of pndik hu
each hand, and passing the cabin door bid Johnny
a goedr mring, ind :contiauedr h- .way to the
springwhiledthe deep forest around :her echoed
the sweet music of her voice.
"Mr. Segi ur,%aid Johnny,' addressing Philip,
"I would othguig-pheart was asire aniinnocent
as that abgelic sister of yours. Ah"! sir, heaven
is inade polf li beings    ytshoud ufor-
tunatellssithat:place, you will missythe -compa-
nyofsich ~nFeTh.' 4"
=WellMr Ohapman, replied Philip, ,if that
cogutrfis'tnostly made up .of women, I shall cer'4
taiti"ty al get h're,for-Imost assuredly 'love
their company"
"But," r lied Johnny "your love must not ,'be
caral it mut bespiritual. And t6 b spiritually
minded you must be changed fromnature to
grace. ' ' .';       ?  "4'      44   . '
Be'e Johnny took the advantage of giving 'th
young  a   and =uffner a lengthy eratation, in
which he app sealed to their judgment and' moral
el"   g0ay ;te'subje t pftheir  spiritg,1i'apterets.
Thagwhuptasgdi4 olmy he hporof givingg
hin  eedfallewging.   a , I ;9 mean atiwrea
hgd  r  hen preparing  Y eir mo rng  iaein, 2and- jtt
an Johnguwas about finishing'is. adrnonitien, ani

.'

. 4
:44
.4r4

1'

'   .  .
rr  ' r

I

PIONEER LIFE              9.1
spiritual counsel, breakfast was announced. Break-
fast over, the company separated, Ruffner and
Billy to their cabin, and Johnny to his home in
the woods.

' 1
i

't            C   '

,r                                           .


lPIONEER I4               9

CHAPTER XV.
CAPT, PIPE--BURNING OF CRAWFORD---LILY PIPE.
"Now ampic mead ; and fields of waving grain,
In golden color shine,.where-once
The Chieftain's a'e6in stood."  [Anonymous.
As Capt. Pipe has been introduced in a preced-
ing chapter, it is necessary here to break the chain
of our storrin order toagi re th leader some ad-
ditionl 'rtieul rsd his
Cato Fpe  w    - ", resident of Rhian4gCounty.
He had 'ot be= #iful daughter, hoWas the on-
ly eon:; :4    of  is cabin. 4s aeady remarked,
he w      i }   ouh a ui  wn  ,, having distin-
guishd       l f as such i severalufous battles.
The Caneeup to the year 1812,
was one mile  Ogfgi o n roeville, near the trail
leading to 1,ansfild  A  t  time   was a Chief
of a tribe of Defawares,"whose village stood near.
the present village of Jeromeville in Ashland
County.
The personal appearance of this distinguished
Chieftain, has already been given, as well as a
brief history of his early life, as revealed to our
hunters, by himself, which has never before been
published.,
It may not be uninteresting to state in connec-
tion with the above that this Chieftain, in company
with a British officer named Elliott, and an Indian
Uhief %amed Pimpcan, visited the Tus awes Ix,

r

dians in the fall previous to their murder by CoL
Williamson, and induced them to leave their ;villa-
ges, and throw themselves under the protection of
the British Government. Some of them     how
ever returning in thy. early part of the follow,
ing spring to gather in their corn, were surprised
and cruelly butchered by that inhuman monster
This bloody affair enraged the already highly ex-
asperated Chieftain, and he vowed vengeance. In
a few months afterwards an opportunity offered it-
self.  An expedition under the command of Col.
Crawford, wgas fitted out to destroy the Moravian
Villages along the Sandusky.  The object, of the
expedition was one of. extermination. No quarter
was to be given ; but a general massacre of men,
women and children were the'standing orders of
the army. The expedition was unsuccessful. The
Indians were aroused tothe highest pitch of in-
dignation, and they flocked around their Chiefs in
vast numbers. Capt. Pipe and another Chief named
Wingenund were the-two leading:spirits in this
enterprise. Col .Crawford was taken prisoner, and
suffered a most 'horrible death at the stake. Craw-
ford's trail to the Sandusky led through Richland
County. Theyspot were Col. Crawford suffered;
according to Col. John Johnson, was a fw miles
from Upper Sandusky, .on the old 'trail leading to
the fig :Spriag, Wyandot-Town.   It was on the
right bank of the" trail, going west, on a bottom  on
the east bank of the Tymoctee Creek. The noto-
riotis.Simon Girty was present during .the burning
of Col. Crawford, and witnessed hishorrible suffers-
ings with a savage delight. It is statedhowever,
that Girty offered to purchase the prisoner from
the Idians for three hundred and fifty dollars.-
But Pipe considered th proposition a high insult,
and replied, with a scowl of indignation on his
countenance, "Sir, do you think I ain a squaw?
if you say on word more og~ this subject, I will

a

93 .

t
.y
,
t
1
t
a
4
a
r
7
a
t
t


94                PIONEER LIFE.
make a stake for you, and burn you along with the
Somie tiine after the Treaty of Treenville, Capt.
Pipe removed to the waters of the Black Fok,
who e: he remained a friend to the whites 'His
cabin, according to th&amp;e testimony of the early sv
tiers, was always'open to the white men.
The daughter of Capt. Pipe, as she was suppos-
ed to bewas e-ceedingly beautiful. She was of-
ten solicited in marriage by young Indian .war-
riors, but refused every offer.  .A young Chief
of  noble birth. and   commanding talents rhad
paid her a visit, on purpose to solicit her hand;
she rejected him, whereupon the young man poison-
ed himself with the May;Apple.}
Suchis a brief histry'of' this very remarkable
mi2i A one time hetwaspthe inveterate foe of
the Whites, but at' the close of his, life, their, best
friend. An "he consideration of this .nanan's charac-
ter we must bear in mind the provocationis which
were, offered him in'the; murder of his early 'ase-
ciates and.relations.. }The blackest page in his
history is the burnirig of Crawford, which was
done in  etaiatin of-the murderofo the Moravian.
.p..          gp.
thdats. 'a speaking of this affPir, Capt. Pipe
often declared that in cse. the Indians had
captured Wit ianson who aeconipanied -hin on is
expedition, the life of CrawfordY wgouJdl jhavebeen
spared. i   fact, WYEgenun'd, ,who h4d previously
been Crawford's friend, waso movedat his horri-
ble situation that he retired from the scene}f his
sofferingt shedding tearsat,        _
* This infdrmatioh was derived fronf the Wyandot rndians, by Mr.Josph
MoCuthen, and published itnthe n1erican Pioneei'
e'e state this fact upon the authorityof the historian IeckeWilder.

CHAPTER     XVI.
PIIP IN LOVE.
"She is more delicate in form and face,
'  More beautiful thani maids of Indian race,
Her winning' smiles, with fascinating power,
Lit ub her Natures ip the joyous hour."
T wards the close of the day in which Ruffner and
Johnny Appleseed had left the cabin of Mr. Sey-'
ndour, Philip' and his sister , strolled away a shot
distance from  the cabin, and fseated, themseles
on a 'beautiful green bank near the water's 'edge.'
The evening was mild. and pleasant; and the shade
cool and refreshing.
"Kate," said Philip after they had been seated
"you are m' oily sister' and I feelihat without
your company, this wild forest would.,indeed, be a
desolate place; abut II must'own that dear as you are
'to m  'th-ere i'anotherno less interesting."
The youog squ; w," said Kate smiling, "well if.
what'you say 'be true, (and I cannot doubt fbur
word) she certaliy must be 'aii attractive Indian
g y Kate, he '  noIydan girl,''" replied Phi
"you may rest assured of that..   here isa   e-
pre sson in jwr ,ountenace which is not pe culiar
to.  ,eIndian race; ,at least I have seen no 9ther
Indn;wopen in possession'pf the sanw peculirly
ma jed characteristics.
"K h! but for al that Philip," repeed

r
.                                                                                                     .                                           !
t
S                              ^ I                          a                                                                           '

h
_       ,.   f
Y  !      .  ~  r
K,
r  Y                              ,
"


96

PIONEER LIFE.

"may she not possess some Indian blood at least."
"Nay, nay, " replied Philip, somewhat confused,,
"I cannot bring my mind to believe that there is
one drop in her veins.. There is something within
my bosom which prompts me to say she is- purely
Anglo Saxon. .She is so'unlike all that constitutes
a savage nature, that it , is impossible for her to
be of Indian origin.  One glance at her love
speaking eyes, would be sufficient to convince you
that the girl is no';8avage, at least."
"Well," replied Kate, "you have aroused within
me a spirit ofcuriosity, 'and 'a strong desire to see
this mysterious being."
"Your desire shall be granted, and your curios-
ity satisfied, ' replied Philip; "and then,d ear sister,
you will say with. me, that, thereis a fguntau of
-love and  unshine in her pure heart, where the.
spirit of kindness ever plays upon its' depths-a
hidden treasure, which kings   ught covet axn
w ich the rude hand of death itself cannot destroy."
"Then you really love the girj?' apikd Kate..
"Love her'!" ejaculated Philip,"yes, as the:
wild,deer loves -the 'ego shade,.and the bee'th?
tinted;loso m ; Earth sy pass awayor her body
may. perish like the broken wild flower but her
soul of love aind sunshi, ',ill triumphantly soar to
those bright realms, where death cannot enter to
overshadow with his dark and cheerless pall - and
let me say to you, Kate, that I shall follow that 'in-
carnate spirit of love, through sphere After sphere,
in its upward flight through the great cydleof
eternity, as. the shadow upon the wave follows,' the
snoW  white sea bird ovsithe world of wates.-
And. Feel free to say""still further, that weie I
transplanted to a land wh  ' beauty as far' surpa s=
ses 'the loveliness of. Eden, as'the unseen magifii-
cence of eternal day surpasses the gloom of Tarts
rus, yet without the company of that more than
m~rtal beingg, I coubt never 'be happy."

PIONEER yPtL:             97
,ffeiyko," replied Kate," what rhapsody !-
One more flight, like that, and I am doubtful wheth-
er y&amp;t'iII gt;bactak again;"{
'tte''' iled the love stricken hero, t"I ad-
aitthat to yoinmy languagemn a hpearo hapsod-
ical, butout of the abundance  aethr hert'pthe
:mouth speaket." Tnt we  have talked teo long
already, It is now time to3turn."
the s i   had indeed .&amp;aladyd -dendedb
hind the distant hills, and twilight dews ti4er Th1.
itg feast as Kate.Seymour and Philip arose frym
tleir seats andretiaced their steps to thecabin.. ,
Seveidays had passedaway before Riiffnern~id
Bill,_gain made thejrapgcarlne at the S yiour
cabin; during which Philip had 'neither head or
seen them. The titne appointed for theut tpept
hl at his cabin dad arrived, and all1eyes Wbre
watidngjheir approach Itwas lateia the evd
niibefOre theyimade their appearan e, whichws
h ailed with delight by the whole family.
Aatei nighthad passed away andyan ei
beait4il sanriie r''iorninghad smiled 'uipg4;the
wilde~hess, and preparations' 'Were 'being m de to
p(ayka  i o 'C  , Pipe 'ad his daughter.
i    1y," said Philip, "do o thnk you are back
wood    lan enough to guard the old folks against t
the assault of a hundred savages, prided such an
event should occurduring our absence "
"Phirtainly thir thirtainly, eagerly respopiaded
Billy in hits own verna ular
'Well" enquired Philip, "'let us know. i .easep
such an } attack, where'you would first coiimme
the firing?"
.At the Inthuns, thir~dod blast yer, of e+rr e.
Dot thirik, third ,that I anI thsuch a tana1 foul,
Sthi.r,'}s -to thoot t 1e folks inthide the hous'1e'
"No, no, Billy;" replied 'hi'lin," J ha  notMt
least idea that you would shoot any of th&amp; family,

.
s
4
fit{
i


I me elywanted to kowf yogould sta   inside
of thec4bin'and shob  P7                                                        G
question, tQdaslg atljnsib1 mag lik ~ythelf. o
you th pposategiythat I  uid etand o4     d
"tn    ggg  Billy, enough,"; ,aid Phup, "yoyare
just the man for thknde=,rtk d I amn p o  C1
*                 3 n
qg elkyg1'at   s;l,;       onsuataw
im ~  ~  aond oucah mybyd
"Ydeilhhirt~t~U dikVhomythelf an4 in epnka
an attack from thnakea, I, thllA thirainly j4
tngimhetfu iybeatiweleour hopp"
teaishao tevifloi  poydsgi4ttee  tuchgap,
no fltie amudat3illy'swit, "f poet heid1 unte r
my estrution ytmd dish viii pegunt fo hi8 vit"
The  hoarof                           yaingdgl  aarjvedan
triO sdWit upofi their journey, Kate iyadggeM
upeonfafrt black pjpy, belanging to Pp~  The
~party etariod frcoithe cabin psdier j4he Mnost
1 ypyaons. Philip and Ehffi    oereg    ot
ay td4r g mc. Tarsu they eontige thwprgJ9
ney intglthe cabin of tapt. g i n u's~AE..
first gliixp~ pf wgic el t a singr psn ga4
tw yeg hunter'sheart.    idn a  f mouentasae
tJ~ecompainylhalted before the abiri'doord. ap.           q
Pipe hadd~ik~ered tlem whei soirn distadeeW1
ie forst, and16ad' anoub ~4~ heitdproac~i
his daughter who hastily prjpard the" cabi fdr
As soon as the party cani pto the door, C~t
Pige a Lilly maethtliher ~ndhid them aheaty-
t        rmm The m aiden s ang tothe assistainef
Kate who had dismounted from her pony, and with
outiAshe  formal ityltf ani  t  du  tioT rishered  her      "
int" e cabinawhile rpt. Pie'e rd atheWQao                            A
ter, secured.her animal in a iaeelAsure i.
ra   ad thewentered thephi4dne  eo e   o
- 14

,'A
4 {    v
by      t      ,
r
{Y
t
ti+
t
Ira

V.


MANSFPID HERALD

every

Of all kinds ezecut  hi 4ts                , ,oid at New York
and Philadelphia, prie  '  "   ite    '$~ ion'p ngof
our Stock of, O  YP 3                            RS    ts
RULES, INK S, BRONZE    S                  p  _heon ive, ands. we
are conantly making additions 4' ~    idsa nest styles.
B. ks Bound,, and Blank Books Ruled 'to any, dered.
pattern, -made in the best 'manner, and of good paper, &amp;c::

am
&amp;

II3ALD WIN'

In. Telegraph Office,_ one door North of
th" Post Office, (up st is)
reAei  e  r  YNeV    York,'and sellhl gt,' wice
:     :=d to the 4ieset taresin the     ante   t it i
wl ho canT read anid writ. are most- afectwc a&amp;4
invited1 to -call and examne;,fare those that Y cannot
,e,1:. have lots of primer a wtV icture bee } ,
fihograph pints,&amp;c.'
'Vie   : rltle"eastern weekly 'p pors natd '  ja i e, soiai,3f6
differ ht 1ki c1 -to suit 30;00?e~Ait r   1 I4N waR°I  tlt
er al;to gaify,'ll tastes. I ,sell :a 4arg fl~umber of ' tJ~ese
e~ei, ekwith the enxand continullijnare' sing.-'P64,e far:
cent 'p r;;opy. WAirE LY MAGAzIO 1 with",a ~ece of m tea t
all stor e  cop lete in each. nu xbeer. ; ,' ices eight cents per copy.
TRUE FLAG; LZSLIt'5 tLUSTRATZD.j;Y.&amp;WKEE NoTioxs, &amp;.C. &amp;C.
Iaper's Maga.inoe, ozilyTwo,          t   G   . .n0-7!!
Y,~ ;good letterfand 1uote :paper only. 10 ct  erqi'.(4 het
VFo    "gp~ood  ,     l                do15  do   '
Good Thif self seali 'g envelopes 4  At per pack, (25.
Vex' rbeef       do     " 10       '    do
Pens' and Pencils ,,ahnost i given away!!!t
SONS AND SONG J3OO(S..
A ,ie'ne~iandpro lar ", onlgsgoing off like hoties4toe
o* 94l, ,,Don't a  akpak  t oncie. Peddlers supplied chieap
t: W. BALZ~I)Ne.

W

0 i
sp

M  " i
n


0- UAN- "

4'

S 9 : ',  Tt; re..  :,     .1
CHANGE     ZFFIRM&amp;          y
urh dtheimme se7ep
PANO. AND STAPL. f'
# ('     1 t  s  r  K_   r-  ' +'   ..  '  3Ys r " y  6
r  '. r' r r }  t'k rL  "  rItt "kt  '  y"   /rY  a7,
; ot~stringeiicy ,in'-the rmoney t arke1 to oq'tM
2'ty3, Euti,} :,... "+ !'ttt  ck~ .a  r :B a iu gJ ps  .i+,. I  y
(Vii ' R
AN  N'tZW B%*E{K1
  j   rt"  4Yj .F f  t  t _ ^ t   'F'   , ' ! A  F i ),
OuYf,
'CAL ANaX~lEF~       U~YB
r Y LL KIDS, CUNTY. oDUC Iyl i
T A.S 4 Js  r  t}  ( *'. A N I  " '   r ;  'Y  R~1  ^  1t
;"{ r    .:c      :   W E?   ]i'4'LD  i: et  &amp;   'B: 3 ,s ,tMf~LE Zi)#  i

It TV,,  ORR
ti  C , .  I  4 1 ,
g                   _IINr  J
MANSFIED; OHIO.
~ I kei4~4 Tsl of I, cout,, m
Those wishingdtohp orae  ur thi
wo l d '[-         1         e ln  o w taid  and  examine  ,line,,

der {   = tT                       F +  /
3              ,                  ,
,,


Boo S$LLERS
ELI STBEET5 HUSIELL
WIIOLEALE-AND, RlTAIL t1EALI N
School Books  1 Musical Books,
*C ssica Books,  BiograpIedalJ yoaks
1e1igous ook,_k. Scent  a ks-
hIiptorc Books,  Book of rae1+
01,oo  loko   Migcelalou oqk 
NEW       1J PUJRICATJONS
r  n            , ndi  r  t
Theological$4Qks,  Architectural Books
Agrieumural  oka,  Sport Iw' jooks,
Farriers' Books,   Ilank Books,
Uorticiltural Booksp $ e o, /  j
LETTER PRESSES, ENVEPES      D INKS;
CapLetter, Note and Wrappirg Pap[&amp;
'MASH' PATh FOR RAGS.

'

CHAPTER XVI.
CAPTAIN PIPE AT 10ME.

The pliant moccasinsther feet embraced
She made herself with wonderous skill and taste.
Bedecked-with what the traders could supply,
Rare ornaments and beads of various dye."
The cabin of Captain Pipe, like most Indjaneab-
ins, stood in a location .beautifully wild;i d Xo-
iantic. Everything around it gave evidence of i
proprietor's being: in; a considerable degree under
the influence of civilization. A few agricultural imn-
plemets; and domestic animals, showed that the
Captain wais re;ly a farmer; and the apgp eanpe
of his littl1ardg n over :huch hi daughter pre-
sideswa most pleasingly contrasted with the wild
forest. aroundit.
But-if neatnessand order characterzed the ut-
side of t &amp;at Indian cot, so' s totexeite the admi ia-
tion of the vv'itors, a nore grand and imposig
scenep}esanted itself within .rThaiside-
enteK;td the most beautiful feather Fnd
flowers, rangedd in such regularity and order, as to
produce the most pleasing effect,
But in the midst of these there *as a living
moving flower, "the fairest of jthem all ,'ayi'd'on
whoi the eyes of .the astonished bbhhlders were
tryafTe    his fai:flwe'r was th          n
Thdedelske sat oy theiside:of. theoldaiiW   d
i: light.aud  aeefuhaobes'of !adwe andwiwh e or,


namented with various colors of embroidery. A
bandage of sparkling gems of contrasted colors,
surrounded her head, while her jet black hair fell
in glossy ringlets around her shoulders. Another,
set with brilliants, surrounded her neck. Her feet
were encased in richly colored moccasins, iigh-
ly ornamented with different figures wrought out
of beads. Pendant from her ears were two mas-
sivegold ear rings, and several of the same metal
Surrounded her angers.
Such was the Captaim's daughter, as she appear-
etoour party  te mrning. of their visit to her
cabin. Kate and Phlip gaze upon her with emo-
tions of interest,. They had not expected to find
such beauty and luxn i v in a wildOrnies.s&amp;: wild and
among its savage inhabitants.
Bug., Pige was not ana.ge- he hd'thr    n
away is   vag   if'e,antd adoptedthe imins aid
rdieion  fithei whites.He ha  learned   t  rad
auaWi'ite, and had instructed his daught rafar
A  reader is fully aware that in. an' ear  d
missionary school were: established &amp;iton"t
ans, an in t  wah  y iany of ih  ndiins We
teht "thhe  doctrine of  the:Bible ad  the  pridii
pies of .civilization, Captain Pipe warifiegtt
n   nri, and as soon a1 his.adghtr wa~ld
eaotidhe cmuenced teaching fli-    d pinoi-
piesthis, tethrthte inskttiti ohe        J
cesivefrom h     white rete ie*,h ,-c ledg' at .he
ether' chn,     Its" effect in mbui  her.mni
in the principle s of vi t  acd refineent. - This
Indian ;maiden was one of-Jo:iminyn Aplesded
upi, and he took the uttnost care i =taching
her tV rda+and write.
Wistnet conon inthose days'tbfind book
in a  ags       ",biut  had th rea4 r Hieenith
eur ittl##artf onWtis oeein they would ebet
seen thebiMe ndseteral the     W:k  sdr e  .et

100

PIONEER LIFE

whhh he would have suspicioned as being left the
by the good hearted Johnny Appleseed.
Withitihis und stand ngFthe reader .will not be
at gjoss to know how the Indian maiden became
so attragVive.
As soon as theChieftain and the two¢hnter8,
had joined Ka   ud-the Indi  girlnthe cabin,
the whole company entered into a lengthy conver-
satioin uon different sut jects, the, particulars of
which it is not n.ecessary here to re peat. After
conversing awhile thus the Chieftain. regnested
the twoiunters to accompany hin as4&amp;rodistance
fro uthe cabi, under;apleasant shade. $ere the
ptdy sat down, and the~ old, main op~ensa the con-
"    shildr en,?said he, "I am an old man; my-head
is covered with age.  I shall soon go to the pa'rit
land. I have been a man of blood, but th1e. ,was
a  saage, and full.of vengeance. Then I hated
your race, and.Wreaked. my vengeance 'n,-your
people.  there is one act in my life whio9abv
a.lothers, 1-now lament the most. Thi8s act *s
the burning of the misguided and unfortnatn Co1.
Orawford. The recdllection of thisMa$n1hoene
s~erags iyet vivi in niy mind, dor ti faw
up your feelings by a recital of the partiuIar# of
this brat lafflir .it i enough to rntell: , fit I
aIn bltyof is blood. ]t I          mee t G
Sr hdstargiven me       p this tog. .or e eo da
after the commission of this . crime, my mindwats
much   onbied, and savage =s Iwas, I;lelt th tRthis
pti hte  was too severe. athit t s pit hman
athra eof ity.e uelti s i past, and itnnotothe
press nt.}Ia nowthe hitei.man's fridu  ,'asare
many others of my race; but there re
manygoidmy kin who fe yet ymirinvetetdfiefoes.
Thereare gnpikof tiee now living pstbyour
lerbt~t&amp; e Greeno  n Zdans tinder

101

IJFE.


102

?ToI6    4 'LT ft

dinse a~ among White people there 'are aways
some bad ones. '; ''=
"And not; young miai," addrePssingh ijp, "1
am glad to be able to do'you'a kindness, by'iinpar-
ting to you some information 'which you'should
knoWaind which you should profit'by..
It is knownto the 'Indians around you that your
father is a rich man, and has considerable moneyy
hih cabin, and I am afraid it has entered into the
hearts of soie of them'to obtain' that nioney. I
will tell you why Iapprehend such an event.
"One day while 'in the woods huntingI overhead
a conversatioti of a party of the Gre entownndians
in which the carrying' out of this act was agreed
upon, in case of the slightest provocation from any
of the -etVler: Iam afraid the present warwill
breed difficulty in-, this neighborhood. Tecumseh
is stringup hatred between the Indians and the
;hordhr settlers, and Ilthink the influence of this
badr man isfelt in this, region  Formy part, while
iaem aihere,which will only be a short'ime longer
Sshall apprise the settlers :of'any impending da-
ge I may discover. Tecumsehhas .made;lapp'.ca-
tion to "me todjoin his ranks, but I refused him'.ith
scorn, an d the haughty chief has vowed vengeace.
* Venerable sir " said Philip with nuo a
an"msixt -ffered uou your posone ither 4by
Teumseh ohis allies, shall meet infant retalia-
'it," continued the old man,   shall place
mnyaelf ut 'of thereach of my foes;s. andwhe th
war 'is over, I'shall again. return to '_hisureglcn,'
where. ,I hope to'lay 'y bones with thoseof my
frieds. '
A Gothgrantihat your latterend xay abe 'peace-
ul and happy," replied Philig feeliny
" , -'"tAndm' now, young man," added Ltse Chifai-i,
youi Ilamt Wath neilayourapreniseeadyiabl

L4

you'heat of any provocationor disLurbat c nn
the indians.
"I hal profitby youradhnhnition,' aid Phlip,
" and anunderlasting obligations to you for this
lint in time. 'Th$ I have one more questiontask
you, an ahswer,-to which will settle a mystery
hangingover iy mind. SI Would know the origin
of ,that adopted daughter" of yours? "
Here 'the Chieftain gazed upon the young man
for a imernt, with an enquiring glanceend'then
broke the silence by asking him, why he should
know her origin ?"
+" Be'ause,'t said' Philip, "I am somewhat .inte'res-
ted in her'future well-beingrc
" And what if. she were of 'Indian extract,
'would that lessen your interest in her future 'hp
piness?"
"By no means," replied Philip, "but if' any
change, at all woild be, produced, it would Rb il
her favor Butt, I am, of the opinion :that that
girl is of white origin. I am almost certain 8he
is.
"It would grieve me, sir, to have you disappoin-'
ted in your most sanguine expectations, and "
"Nay, nay," replied Philip, before the, ol  maian
could finish his senate ce," doot say so, I feel that
she is a kin to 'dy race; The pure and immortal
spirit that lool's through those ,radianteyesaclaims
kindred to a higher and holier race of beings than
either white or red savages."
"And would you cast any insinuation :upon her
pure and 'spotless life because she was born f Ihdi-
an parents?' answered the'told man pathetidell
"I' hope," re lied Philip; "that  have' not
w oud d yourbdlag    y' sing' that yoo  race in
its wild -anid sakag~e state% ilow andt' unholy. I
maant'o insuib I' oiy spdkesof t~ al its' £rude
and' avage stateand That, too;'in ennetiern with
a siinilar oonditte~f my own rage,"wich ii 'known


ig  is j   ay parts otflde wrid  I fiirmly bQ-
heve in the unity of the humai racesa   all
n    ind gprgnfrgeo Othea'e Srfigina l t ock"
" Yours explanation s sati(tay, nd sI may
freely  s t  to  you  hatf -f y ng  w om  ai  is  of
whited, P,.
"I kwew ik ! Iknew it !" exclaimed Philip in
e estacy. "I knew thr4 a beieg so unikay thig
1d ednarmo g your race, could 'ot have her
origin th rze  And ow, hew uuchJiwoul4 like to
tk4   her history;it nust indeed he, roat interes.-
ting."                                te
0, Yonmge man," replied     jhieftaithe ways
of Providence are mysterio- y;r adwe are some.
times lost toseeopnt, for ;kis pcu iir dealings to.
ds' d ,se  The hJistoy of the maiden isshrouded
in mystery to all but myself. She is supposed to
i my daughter, ad i scaled '" ily Pipe." ;Her
Tndian             AS1me is "Q ds,"v' which neans "kud-
ne    ryna"   =She -is a paticuler favorite of a
white named JohnathaChapan, who          as
taken much paine in instructing her in matters of
"Bi' enqiuired   hilip, ea nyo!' not give mec
a history of' the yppnug wma ?
Ah!" replied theiold F u  plainghis.A finger
upouhis ihauthd' nyixps areseded .I am under
the imost soleini obligation totkee: thismater a
pidfoaurd:shret"                           4
"And the11 mustI infer," said tPhilip  that
tore-c1p beQi p ssibiy of'  training h si'for.
maton ?
"atpsgz4' ip~odt TeCifti.,
Apimust Lilly fQmrgvv  ry iigno   / o her
gin isai thnarhtee           n     e4rd
iinyohligation des siehktat anhad mad tactada
to lhe* historganay be eomsi 4    hu ~

r
[

,utnin cas yoti e dduerd   called awayby
death.h   thin k *id do lab fe!breve 1a
said Philip thoug"i lyt
a, y gfnga l, givie yourself no uneasi-
ness about that matter, all will be right " saidl 6th6
old man, "and -into the hands df hin4 wh  hall
call LillhjhilafuIfwi , shallbeplaced he .full
history."
* Enough," said.Bhuiig, "J wIl passthf ajtect
nd further. See, iis drawirig twaarrghtnd
we }rhust away. The startling itelligenhee which
you have given ,meir-pyeeting the'intended robbery
has created an utieasiness in my mind, and Iam
anxioUS4 to 'be gone'
It would giVe me. much pleasure," aid the
Chieftain, "to have your company longer, hut you
must consult yoir own fgelings as tQ tha&amp;
" Thank yon" said . Philip, s1 shoall- see y
again.           ,    .
"Gad grant t,"said ;tre old manyan  he no
pany started for the cahin;where, after' partakig
of the old man's hospitalities they 4st.t 4fE
home. .Before ;eparatig    howver, ,X4Wy had
placed. a'  1au  eb l Yghe r ing  upenias figem
while Iate ip return prgsped LiI yt     )ea -
ti~ly' wrougt necklace,' which she had wgrn9jg
the occasion .                               -
he planting wym  ide#d inoat ffet g   Ka8
and Lilly stood for some moments witW clasped
hands a and ,:trymegeget hegge '.at
mournful wor4 fare"    heol 4ag" s91pin*N
handpf eh  visitor, wth fondneand tl e emo
pany parted.
mf tertravling some Aista e  ffnrahrok Ahe
silence which had #thus (a  attnded hdu ' 'tDat
is    teiLkfom   -buydjgaUY gindvl   I ipe
mifshe vanin4ake on( ifeg'for' aite ghe
'She is a kbemarkabyhddiug gieIf said@tte.

f

I


'  9r qua1   hagensyr. eger It (k pitypshe
cr  pe psiia~e4 ,to" lae   vg  ~   itke
up her residence among the  hi gs .,
dgen speak to her upon theubj t ?", asked
'"  idl ,p1i4 K
p4nd doessheefuse toleave the tribe ?  d aked
Philhp.    f
Sellrreplied 'Kate," I think she does not wish
toev whilethe old mantis living  Thoegf he
expi'essed .aishto diet among the whites. ,And I
really.blievebrothe Phiip, thatshe has taken
omem notion.Of A, as she spoke to-me highly ap.
plauding your gallantry;' and using her;own'ex-
pTession ihedenomninated you a bave yanwr
, Dat ish atfact," said the Dutchman,'"heish ter
psest mnamofigsternshuakes in ter vide world."
"Go to thunder with your snakes," replied Philip.
Bt t elil r    4Kate, do youthhik the y ngon
d bepersuaded to take up hr residence amroig
MI _0
[   nnot positively say," repliediate,"1  if
ti i  isvtlf inyhcould'' putsuadel      to do
so " :ontinuehhe shilIin  y ue unydb ty hat
"Well," said Philip, "she's Yan intef t iing i
iddes&amp;edv better fate    iha that which awaits
heiitheigym.inx73
su~a wayjist shedding bislast lingering rats
upo'rTh[ didtit hiWlop as the pa ty ne1ed th
esin sMtteyni.     illy   tthe party in the
yard, joyfully exclaiming:
'Althafe gtheathlaunmthep in-no aldirn
froth ingthdn   teak uthinde gY IA-eft '
T hk   ouBiy       lethk yusidtheg s1irj
Ka e-,A4,shesepeditethuefi4     t  greeJer
parents;ancd relate the day's adventure.
aRt)nthr aibd a Bilery Wthen 1eftnd sprQdeeded

th oy gIbe oest 4  their eabin an)atreadlW
ting thixtervie* ith the lirdiaerand hisdagh4
terthe-familiretired tabed  Dutit was 1a!tsu
night before the young man fell into a soud eldpi.
Hii  ii4   s agitated ontwiibjectst FJrstdbat
hichreferred to; the a.ontemplated robbed y A
seondI    that of enticing the Indianig'irl toAiawv
the haunts of:Csavage life,.andatake upshermesidene
amongtheIwhite8syor in plaine ternausif the reader
please,:dwith himself. Philipsaide nothing, tthe
fauii1yconceriing the robbery, but; prevailedqpon
his father to bury the money* in the cellar; ad ed
ing thatitwa a Much safer place, than inside the
cabin.:
In a few days_ after the interview 'with the= ala
[ndian and his daughter, as related.in thethagter
preceding,,the settlements of the .BlaYk,  exre
thrown into they utmostIconste .ation by hearig
of the-ourrenderof Generall uL  .Net s eamefyr
ing in all-directionsithat Hull hadangdd-eA his
army, and that the Indians and British 1 geA"de
stylig eperythjg lefpre them--that g   ds
of   adding Indians were scoutingthe i4jrne
in aell Adrecti  plundenng andT urderiggt o
defenpess eers. Theac       lich t i elli-
gen e.;r ie in the uindsQf te se tersw a  Vigr
featA.  : others clasped . tjittle  a "it3eir
bpQmnsa;y.tmh p 1 apittiug hearts nd feaxf$ l app) r
hensigna.A                  K.'!1      t
Thtie Block Houses 1-to the Bibck Houses !"
wasehe ory!i bveryFr quartierand.the a gved
inh  itaints obeyed  the suunnon. jPhilip vainlIy
endeavored to persuade his fathetdrenvenoia
pJge Qfaletyg Thegd ~Lggng prete gspst
th:pde ya    aghof.hiysp   stating, 14b4 it, p
'nqg~ze Mld  ~ppto wppgglirgg         gtes
rM+r+'W y-npus.nfbrmed t- $ey        P  %, t
*o** of  a erable amount er money, but ot' hei   eo  ,  ,.9 i}14i
-ytL N :7 d[f~.tiRt    ~ j~  ..  .'.  c_'l/f_ '. _       ' L..«0 ...

t

t
E
r
. t
F      yg
{     S
.
'     f
g
S
+

4

r
1f
p
t
t
1
2
f


1L~8                                                                    ?1ONME1  tw

related to thy-oldm ui* what the old Uhibftiin ha&amp;
told:him  coneernin  the murder. But all to ano
purpose. The old geitleinans persisted, in staying
in his cabin-
Ox this occasion Johnny Appleseed distinguished
himself-as a."swift messenger," travelling day and
night, bare-headed and bare-footed, warning the
inhabitants of the approaching danger. He visited
every cabin within his route, from the Black Fork
to Mts Vernon, exclaiming, "the Spirit of the Lord
is upon me, and. he hath . anointed me to blow
the trumpet in the ,wilderness, and sound an alarm
in the forest, for behold the tribes of the heathen
are round about your doors, and a devouring flame
foiloweth after them.))
It- was ascertained however in a few days after-
wards, that the alaarwas unfounded, and that the
British and the Indians had enough of work to do
in i$heregion of the Lakes, for this surrender was
immediately followed kby'a series of splendid naval
vietorie.
Bi th    hearing news that followed the siarm
did    ' =relax the energy of the settlers in con-
structing hbuses-f safety. 1hey occupied a dan-
gerous ositicgKheingin the wilderness, and irxthe
midst of lndians, and knowing that the least pro-
vocationfbr  the. =hites would be surp. to arouse
their ege    ;thci  onti1u  d    aeiteffortta til
a sufficient-,umbr of such houses'were ereeted.
Immediately after the surrender of Hull,' the
Jeromeville Indians, left the country forCtleveland,
where they threw themselves under the protection
of the United States Governinent.
Wewould here reraarkthat at this period there
was a permanent :garrison stationed hee ' iider
Majoressup of"the U S. Army. It was the depot
of suphies adfiendezvous 'for troops.IHere' Cap-
'Thia fact waa received' from Mr. Joniathan Ohlfiedy to whomn Johnny made
his appearance on the occasion.

tain Pipe and his beautiful daughter arrived in
safety,'where we propose to leave them for a while
and notice the events rhich took place on the
banks of the Black Fork, a short time after their
departure from Jeromeville,

.o

f.
i

118


i  r '" r t     t t  °     '  ,i  t   a  y    ,         f   r.6  }  -  i  - i   r k,       r  4J
L-   J.  s    Y''"      {     1   't i  r   ";F     t o,,     .-r '  s ,     °4  4  ,1  4
h' If  K   Y  ~  ft"  ti i   j  f   J  s  'K'

CHAPTER XVII.

BRITAIN---THE COPUS SETTLEMENT-VILLAGE
OF GREENTOWN;

}
yYy
S 1
is
a}
j

w                          ied      Wen the
Unt,                           4   t because
of thi&amp; *        zItfrn  try     4   e not
writing                                  r Wex *^d K1_  ' k,.owever,
that it: sferi                       nd mis-
ery to the earlyasettler re ediip'lr'ki exposed
to its immediate ravages. And here we beg the
indulgence of the reader, to express our disappro-
bation to war ofiall kinds, other than that wagend
upon strictly moral principles. We look upon
wars in 'which the lives of individuals are sacrificed
as impolitic, and ruinous to government-as the
greatest curse which can befall any nation or peo-
ple.

WAR WITH 'GREAT

a
rtoZELIFI

In

.
'                               'Y
Y1
4
i
k E
'
1
'                             i
Ic
_                               i
f
f
3
l
f

jNmetAheunanirnevoice of the stLterws tidl
lan  County, durigth~ last war,would bave.,bdrne
tedi aor  to .,our po itiox :1
Aog the itfferi±g portions of our State,:dUr .
ingtlie sain.aignpITihland County inay be enum-
erated- At this' period the Gounty contaitied but
few whith inhabitantts, and the present thrive
o~ty Kfasfield oosisted! of AtWo    threelog
cabiln s  h  fact, the Northern part of the State
was ahnost a4er cpwilderness. There were only
afbdut forty laid 'out ounti s, many . f which were
notty eorganized  mongdhich was Riebland At
thie ;gear  .day, l(Agst, 1812,) nd Block 'Houses
weeegeterected in Mansfield.,There were: several,
however, in the County, as already' hhited, One
of these was on the Clear Fork of Mohican; one
at Beam's  Old Mill, (now Campbell'sd ili) on the
Rocky Fork ; onwhereGanges x w sttids;.e-
sides a Piekked lhpise}on the flhek Fikowned
by Thomas , oult r.
r1 here *as,'a}ettlement oh}the Black' Frk
MohiaiicknWdadwi that dit a .the'.ck4u. yttie
ni ;ht   'al 'd t &amp;e F ire J  ifin  Copus ,qho  )L  th  his
Wife ad :e  i  ehildfiein ,_had" 'iiate#froir4 the
St +f  nipsfl aia, dad settled- on'theixol'
the@ Wclk akrly Wa         4rthe1 9-  6f@
the first aetnal settler on thellaek Fork' e*
shortly afterwards, followed by otheregamong
whm were the Seymour family, already" mention-
ed; a Mr. Lambrightand family.; a Mr. Hill and
family, with some others not recollected. These
families constituted the Black Fork, or "Copus
Settlement," as it was then called. This settlement
is about three and:, a half'miles east of the present
site of Lucas, and about the same distance from
Mifflini, or Peteburgh,as it is now called.' About.
two and a half miles. north of Mr. COopis' cabin
stood that of Mr. Seymiur, and about one Anda
half mile further north stood that of Mi'. amibright.


112

The abinHof Mr. ill stood-where Lucas how  ands.
About tw&amp; and a half miles south- of the cabin of
Mr. Copus stood an Indian"villager'narned Green-
,togwhiCh consisted of sixty cabins, withy a, Coun-
oil House about sixty=feet long and twenty-five
feet broad.,The Indians were of the Delaware
tribe, and their chief was named "Zeshauau," or
James Armstrong. .These Iadians werefriendly,
and'to agreat degree under the influence of chris-
tianity and. civilization; and- up to the commene-
ment of the war they had preserved an unbroken
friendship. They;puld, in their; hunting' excur-
sions,oftencall, at;the bins of'the white settlers,
and pass the4 "weafy hous away" 'in conversation
and sporting exercie   _
Thevilage of dreentowu was situated in a
};pleat t location, near the banks of the: creek.
Thi idangsbdseleoted t hispot onaccount of
the rmnanfte seary which surofg nded it. It is
said by those who visited-it at this period that a&amp;
mor4cvely esot was no where. to befoud. Here
hadlthese pdsons of the f rest:livedfor yearin
the full,:.gyrneut of teiratu al ghts and'un-
der wb. theyupposed thep rte'ction of the Unik
ted States J aws.,}'$ut as the sequel wigshpw a
nio#t tltam efu1 and outrageous  ong,;w  pr ice
Up~O1ieni.       ''

-t 4 !r  i '  ,f '   f4'
4  4  y4
4 s'4 r,~ ~ 4

''  4   4   4  f
44  4  414
t  44t 4

4                   4'  Y           t       '          !4 '

P  _         4

I

F-ICUAPTER XVIII

44    i r

CAPTURE AND 'BURNING 'OF GREENTOWN.
All things i te'teady at the'appoiited hour
They imarchd4, '(intent en', doing _violence,), };
To white the village "st~od And in the grandeur awful,
Mingling with theypassiig clouds the curling smoke arose.
Towards the middle of a hot and sultry dayfin
the month ofAgst 1812 a party of soldiridt
the command of Captaii-=-, whoWs staioied
et the  Block fo e  t   lBeam's  oid  nmll,h loi ii
front of the cabin of Mr. James Copust Mr. 0.
poliely irivited the Captain atid jhigoldiets iffto
the  esbin;  here  after being  seated;jthe ofa ceaf. e rird
Mr. C. entered into the followingonvesation:
"Mtr. ogus," said the ,Captain,  1ave been
infored that you area otitcrn' offrindship with
a ribe of ldians howaiahiftiiig a ;a st fvlgage
nt  frofa  "yor 'esiddi~edcae'd Gresntder;
and I havealled  io you eysly to so i
your compax y a ndd1ti lence, in my present visit to
these Jrdians. 
"~   pryCaptain, Wwhat is theobjctT
yorvsWt  h  Indian8? ithe questii ea fair
by   replied ,the pan,~ l'dt
i  etr1tionlg qoity sapprgiage2ffioers%19 o ~~ppn
thae svage90.a.paeyah pen4 thenafmM. Fitthei
ti1age  immediately, Vt wy  down  their  A r'  w,6 3a  r

'
I t

'1ON$Eft

_      i       F        ,


11   ~bXth~fl LEb

place theinselve ' under my protection, tillty
can be taken te a place of safety."
"But, sir," said Mr. C., mildly, "in case these
people refuse to acknowledge your jurisdiction over
them, how then will you proceed ?"
"How then will I proceed !" retorted the some-
what agitated officer. "Why, sir, I will proceed
-to drive them into submission at the point of the
sword."
"But," calmly rpiied  . C.,are you not aware
that these poor creatures are the proprietors of the
soil-here is their tJ-gg eh tieg upi g groundd,
and the graves of their sires-here along these
green' banks, and in these shady forests,these peo-
ple have liyd or years, til themng~s are ce-
mented-to this sp tby 'the dearestassooiations- --
lreth    ung        , u4te-wt   ; y mogi4 d
w~Pgpex~ bD er Ag hi 4e4 ilpve, a gugj,
ait 'e4     1dsdy deithaggasingllau yay; aiys,
eigon     MeI hseeehayo, i0Mi      ilay i   4
h  aniatugefitapt'he pfinpiples ofc   tiiit,
plead iig ieir behalf.." ,t
" ir'rep ied_ the  rn id moved, oicee.« I
coe  not heige to engagein  i questfons.1p1ainingto
or    ' se:e  N-    iness gto qrry out  e  n-
struc ions of my-  p erior, offers, apa ii thg print.
cipe. of ny  rg   eii'  4igiogu fai.  , sj; ig
told are .aMipisrof he     p   ando ar at
berty tooicikte in that capacity. doverment
does not.compel you to take up arrys and tinate
cap acitt'6f  °oldidr eit hef  3 tI. r  ily quire
your; influence isnjieiuadh  l thejoil lii
their village till the, close of the war. This 6.
tainilf ei tbe M'ib~tion of yon farth. Aid" in
ease th7 i refus&amp; t -t O  jy-you halb ek4 m
tedyadd X ~l  i aii' tit  pNdMI ltf to dri
tae~    y4etihe Tuk=  the di'              I

11

t
I!.
r
'i
5
f'
I

.Wel,'[f saidJ r C.w, " I carnpt gg  the ,onsent
of my mind to co-operate, yquiny ur 1     r.
I have pracied liberty to; this _pople, and1 ave
pointed theip to Aprs as the best governgni.  gn-
der the sun,laid sl  I betray myself by inflUen e
tofdeprive them.of .that'libertyph  I bch e gagd
ia their birth right?"
"Well,"replied the officer, "there is but two
waysfor fme to' proceed -either t6upersuade yocto
comply with myrequest 'or arrest you as a traitOr
to-'the govern went. If I fail the first I shalltat
in the alenatii e"   "
This a oken with much firmness and i--
ent deterniinai'on  Mr.   paied for a moniit,
in which his- .idnd seemed greatly agitated. 3At
length le replied  : .1
4rtir,Igo, and the blooof this afit be   on
your own  head"
the responsibilitysir, is -1x9, and yOR
be exempt from all consequences," and in a
moments the, company left the cabin for Gre 'tq '.
Mr., James Copus was a Minister of the Gospel,
andwa ;eseemeded randrespected as suchJy all who
knew him. The  uiana lsh d he gretpsteorfi ene
in, him. He had, often preached to them, and  ad
exerted 'a salutary influence over thwm, It is, not

de sir    "thI  ^probably et  M4, be Colsr dtie.'of
themr a
In ahorttpeaaft ekvigtw ai tho Q'r
da4  soldiers   ?y intb  h        -
g aiort d stance from the town.  es-
s.; 'eti  "6 aehd to  eldh 'alijt.
j~ &amp;  h is  _ r+  &amp;'c inp        d

i


i feW #fhi s- criids Ka ic 'hastee ed? t the oft c,
Wh6 thu ddesa1tii:           '
B4 ind      vat9 With ~e instru tidk   irecei v
3r',*&amp; fi , y- 4 eri6  dfN  a I ,ed,to  e-
. xrd th el in'e ra          dis      Ad
regard shall be paid to the safe'  byour 'er'o is
p             th e   e ofnthe f-teent a. A
refusal t.        ;ttpy with e this demand wiUl fujeet
y'ouryourtribfeto instant deat, and yourvib
agsalla be br'     ashe&amp;   I lame brought yO au1
white friend here, Mr. Copus,. to Witiess.this treaty.
I  h-ihg! seg a dc he
c.  i rute  iyog  tj though conto his o  your
will, mpydystrue jgs musbe par4g out."
"Captain," aid tILe Chief trel lfinglyj  ' I will
ca  acounei of my. warrior  an4returnyrunan
nswerimmediately.' '.Accprdingly  fuggi1as
alld ii which the matter waa bieay ispussed,
d a a     r thrnedin the coirs"of anhour,
Wtthi&amp; tia4they 'hd ieniimidslireyose-
i~.+ tatth  A hd  aa'   I agreed to dsub-
Th   la g'ersnow comtgenced gathering  up
nit a eprpertyte y, c6 at cdixieniet ly
er~Wh   i,iinftitudrifnfin~ 1 ~  tas.-
:   di"    out e h h tr'lfdItlodf ;"  h for the
drushfdddke.

fln  aii$e  h( Tret ifr&amp;  Th a  min'elo h ei
S  Moing s  woere          aroube-l4thmy.werintir sy-
emly informed that their property should be p -
t ted  Bidthey'feleonfd   thet 'th1e iAokc
roe frik thirkba'ig iIe.    ot     ehe
M esleyro  e a  ws of ame s  ,  iwvi  'ntheIIcF tk, who
Mama5 'F  ta.              ai '10heW
dieer Witz es ed -- tkltx i0~d chi9vwtes t jrirc n 0jr~o syp ~ f

I

PI9NEU LZFJB

1f17
4'

!   r
, I'

I
}p
3
1
r
F '
i

I'?  t

TAAn" stoo4 gazing up  btle gringvolmps, gs
thegy ~idd oavenward bekrhY9peeey1
seern.gy calig upon the Gre   piit to witgeas
the iwrfidy-.
"O   ptain," said the 'Chif as           1
upon the spot, "I have reposed .At; $1t
confidence i yopr hnor ad int+grity  o  pie
promised .protgeti in to our pe'sopr propertyt,
and I am afraid thit promise. isei bko k E I u
.d td myself aod trie eund  ypigrote
the more redily by re oogf t    iggpec  f r.
Copus. We are ipw without 'x' rsa'n1 i     r
power, but I demand that we know the cause of
those volumes of idl" 4Wh",  Yppy   j   ap-
tiun dispa}ee  pseneger back 'to the village to
,seert 4 zthe cauo
,t will;be regdeted"that a part of ,he company
were left to protect the villageuntiL=the. 1a lge
of the property could be removed  oYappIaT of
safety. Butafter the officer had'pceee4 si. e
two or three miles with his prisons the company
in charge of the village set iton fire.
In a short time after the wssengXlft, he return-
ed bearing he sadintelligence to the Indians that
their villg =was now.burning toithe ground this
stl -ne fell utpon th  banishe  i gllagsike
the aides-of'-4eathupon the Irely pilgd a
" otiM 4f former years rote nfr sh i tVir
mea1&amp;riM,'e{re they 'ihe ed,'antinth dankbaS s
nd;lungthat be4i1ulstran , thy lidp
thei1'04thftdadysW 'fore 'the  hi;e nni-d
disputed their claims, they were "monarch's of 'all
they surveyed," Then above them glittered 'the
starry decked heavens, the' bright and glorious,
home of. the Great Spirit-then above their wig
wams rolled the burning sun, in whose effulgent
glories they beheld a personification of that Great
Spirt, who had begbthinguardian and 'protector


Yiat 'he vicisitud e } llf&amp;  thin h y'ha  ze
F'u~    '~Ao         ih;a shn rl'igfr'or
ergou     athway of stark aiid then thefriadiP
*d~i. $Sht   t o ' b.1A    ; '  nial e e  '  i th se  thing s  w e re '
~fld~now'&amp;' sdehangea'had co me over them.
Those pd yshad fled. foreveiaand'foP the last °drie
thev  h  ,k1'hadr     c i1tigd iniach  others soci ety in thi,
th }homyof "their.i'ii outh '"the -.Aun had aris n for
f'theb last time upon'their  forest "wi+*a rs, and' now
:          etheY  adbid the rakes ol'themir iesajia fare-
'Nwto a peoplVe, who for genera~tirs' past,, had
beeni accustomed yto the unmoleIsted"  ssinof
thewild ernes, and the, unobstifi- fd freedom' and
right ~of roam i'rat pieasUr   ltht i h t  w
h uti pge5u tds; s~ddexi 'upn  r  - of'aconitrary
powe , lbrought again st 'them iiia aiie r so trioach-
erou -and.violent; would not Til'to a rouse in' them
as 0prit 'of z'talitio ; for
--r.R vi oW~t ani 'ver iii  hrsleep, '
Than i  'l u  m 1apksin  ase,. , hI,  ery? heart'
~Are 's.rwn' thIu LXt' t h t'indI&amp;'"i rywar~
,n A  i'  .,  i   b oei s  6'  ni en Q nh they  bl4 e.'.t, t .
To~~    ' . fww  4WW.,Wt.Z1 n thi0.inh rnIan
Y     I r   tr,  prQbIt~~l1w~s reieed ,th~e
4nr         t0fth          deratiou j-41i  a sol-
emn protection was ,'offered, to 'their property, on
'liof pea aleu                'Th~ r ; Bt "hszpom-
Q~0 Vbs~i~s ~4e~ ~  g~~r~tvans  ..eon
'A s,,e f' o1 's 'A A ~o
E            'A
9A _'  L '.  . A, ']' .l A'
A  x     Y  ''.  .:i Y" 55  3A~ . 7.  .  Y 'A   ' k '  ,r  Ar r  r  '  ."'
'A                 '  A.; ;  A , i  1  " " ,,  3'A , 4 t {  x y r

A'
I        A                                            it    ''

't
;
a
-
'
t
a
".
k
f,
1,
i

_                ,,   t            .
A                 M
r     s     .r
r
'                         P
S      -                      1 j,
r
\        '. s  _            Y    7_

lIURP R  OF TPE

CHAPTER .}IX.'
8SEYMUWURt FAMflLY-.-J.PlUTH OF,
RUF FNER.

?rHl     H EROIC

oi-X  ark ! that ihrilliiig sound,'
The wrathful' warriors cleave him to the earth,
} Behold his 'blood !  The hunter's ieedng form'
T.4es tangled on the groud-"
A few' days after the burning of Greentown, a
Pprof 'Indians was discovered }iting uj, doa
small elevation of land, bQrdering upon~ thelittl
lakerferdto  in as pmceding chapter. Th,'  dis-
coverer                              TeWas' none other, than "Btanty Billy," of
' horn we have alreadyspoken. tt .ai bairsthat
t e&amp; ind1lins had recognized Dily almost . in the
same instant ,that he, had discovered them:.x_ illY
atirs ai~eptd o iii, away; bt he Tkin
~,)Td  ~ o'hin to,'styptellingj  him  t a nse~
1ndfii dcm  pto-hi1in a, pstfriendly nier,
5Dyou know a family~ by A he name of SeymI,
hyzg  ear here ?" a kd atal and fiercel9,n
savage.
"Yeth thir,I geth tis -.said- Bill
D~ountliik iheare at       =      ;e?"akd thie
t   t' a\ctJY !, r,'tut I-thiippoth ath

-,

A' '     A   .

,  ,        ;
i                 Y"
~ ,
t      ,.

z        i                 ,           i
Y' i   ; rS ''     ,


PIONEER LIFE.

"Do you know a man by the. name of Ruffner?"
interrogated the same savage.'
"Yeth their " said Billy, "but I'd thay to you thir,
not to put yourthelf in his road. He ith a-perfect
devil thir, when he ith not in a' good humor."
All right," said'the savage, and Billy hastened
home to inform .Rufner of. his discovery. Instan-
tly the Dutchman called to mind the Chieftain's
warning, andtaking his rifle in hand, set out im-
mediately in pursuit of .the savages. Believing
from what Billy said thatlihey would make direct-
ly for the Seymour cabin' Ruffner followed after
inhotpurhuit, rnd soriItrack their trail, which
he followed cautiously for some distance, until he
came in sight-of the Indians unperceived. They
were allse' dai}ozn thetutnk o fallen tree, ap-
parently very busily engaged in coversation. fRuf-
ner J :tp reached within fifty yards of whe'e they
sat; but he 9ould get no narer witho   btein  dis-
,pyhpiter!"gyp
Duclunn, "desh arg von tam gpod2i £iig
loodin upuggar, und i Ihadygn         a y fe
% F  "h ' d o i .mn re _' s tp y  o'  f  '
V ~ nevae somee                  u      f .i
vo    m ,y }e    o fh spe p it ini,t td-er tamI ls1 /n
ygh apravoredto ceh.thee
l:dge, hiitvs to fple          ly,    k
9oxicpgkoand     i'zi m1    g    h ,
'9Wioe~ of vo   e  rggrggg           'Se
yfAbule, hut fr roma ther ~/   t '" 4a  &amp; ~tjo s4h
was fully satisfieA that they J e o   ,nen  e
deed of eath. He had sup.sed fr he drec-
trfi fli il frdat        hdeeefrt6 te .irnt
d~iiwiBifgia d wrertarning to} thehipet-
tlenment: to avengeathe insult."
After they=idfhusdisd dd ogei err,'few
#zmsf They :tl n{y . sgi y+?g tq t fej  et and
casting their eyesaround themin alld r
rartd opplhefgir eot~pvfrtFe $Sr Pazof  mn
folowed by the hiding ~4~~pp4

*h  ke thimself fa en  gh  'ith  ar;so asnot
t&amp; be discovered, b    i. Iii a :n        e
"me  in sigit of he cabin,7 whe iiey o e r  e  l t-
ed" o  aioment,theniderg  f roa the w oo n
)    t ihe eating Jmid tlimyc_  biion1kiiir,
the    d Where Joi ngedlby Eu'ilerii fh ohi tt-
teri#rdd. Th images *ere no ttldri  4i ,on
beholding the   ptdzu ;iltiki         l on
each other ii enquiring Ipok.d Ohuiiy hf
aggekred frieidiy, shki  1ds tth  e hoe
faniily. Niro were the family ifii  wise talarmedas
the visitation df Th as Was no  roccane But
the sudden  fhag  produced in theilooksas
iEffrner entered, ardused the su{pciios  ifPhilip,
wh recalldtoy'einoiy the chie'ftaii'w arnig.
Ehftnerkhassnttedthe ehauge adhe beft
his niciu eyes full of erngane, uj n the saw*-
ages s    ll ok Was bloodyMid fe fuI Arid th; e
savagesie ae1ned awed on' lkeh dibg is y h sh -
len conteianee.
t was eident fromthe looks a nd  tii&amp; of the
Indiansthat they wee  omi iat da  poi4d-
they hadonet1ppcted fo6ee dher tha he, -
fly inthe aiN. In the bneantifn4 the
ting godlheartedKate had  siad afo  T   :th6
ttle;at thef reiaedto partake ofherth  $al.
iti4s.        They   tfl} satF snilei aid giddimy.
'NRifnurN4lilkii thiiktlhey   Wiittled to
u# V  on  h. P afhesthe   ,nd      u *kth
Jr gather u  o4 e .f toih&amp; etatlhie,  ai dj4~
t' hi      bin, lnt'd k theind",i'rT1K ie.
pring{r , , r'taggdtKn !t A f  ";  I e  ytdt ladned

120


cc        j          -  .

+l
r
. y'
fly
"  11Q. 13i'

thoid our paekproiders in t  t o  fl ti ? J
h ma  r   &amp;  +f  I denunch tion . 1',' ,'1ik V'  t ' ~i'   t"zr  jd
ayyal  ugtlrud  rra  h  ' s  'tfad/'ti'l  I  "y it hr
s gs.seemed iomp"iets-y awe st ri&amp;ke ;i; ' id ii 4Uth
i ~41e, his Yo ietrI~G14aaveheemnof
~T~a syaes ox4covei=ing ffotThis : tou e
w~ ~1 a , e p , Q   cohmse atJiet diFt
aly~p~hj~i~i1~ e ~a1~out~evr40.*
uponb W8  eigs ~~r   tnif '4. layip  fk
;a    ; aisr   .d? ko     ce og bat.i r4a
cTh ;boosw, 33td'  e   ,t"ing-1.uiJ o
ruglfsl1rsr*~en  he  nexien4   , t
gallant R0 uffnr felltisied dn elo  te rk
wbere e youildie P vJag±  h d
~PffW~X~Q~i ~n~g Liai'~ e~j~, ogd ,e  *
kniesandtherekin solp fU  Wi~4 POO i

'{


rn9            is, fcouldi.afra±0  Si
44wig  ~    ' heethey rs t, t hael  d a~ge s
ltt fe..  w~ti~  h:  t agonies of deat  A  ew
1I- gg  "ndth , {'la gn",  dath ,'yAfwi fferi g :o ~~th ,wereed de
i 6 e tepotarighte dat  ,ha'd not retiiri
e dx  to i .loisc ou  F ass;buth lay upon 'that blody
ca bin floor, unconscious- of the awful and so  1-hi
E}g;eue *ta'ound bet, and over her seBseless iody
th Le tofe ngewgs held a- council of death,   iii
Wiht   ged    t Yffe her return to coii
"nnz z, aftrh haid delieidupto tem
t~i~  1 1tx'~ m  ey$.sh. ld also =be 'i  ded.
4i fw: a difficult °for 'so iipnt during +t1he ein-
iltgt'nyonreto perform the deed. Katewva~s
abek.iu1gil, atdthe ! 4, a ; x Aood' thirsty as
thy4ie fl lth oto rni+ -da eed o dreadful
fi ^  ature }o  beautifil.';r 'A, tol~e ig th Bne  eon en-
ted. '. 'Me 4oftn big  eat me kill '}whit9 's" iawv
K    lt ~s  ru d' to consciousness, a }dfor a
o x~i h&amp;sddgzi~  rudr 4rin' deepb e-
i      id it "i h od o ~~ercr"sadh,' ail
dreamig  or is this  horrible  r  ,ality ?tie
Flit  _~i'e siupon ,Vh e posti  s oiiWof he .r
Inang &amp; parents, she wrub g h rhands inang"uish
eud ~w~P~loid'" Mother [";noahr I "'deare~st'Znht-
had . , -mmsIw  too ;f ~bad her% +r 9,4uivH., ig lipsMtand;
4  g i lw   W e' 4 S44               4 .s },M
A   a  t }tor, K' ho"r ei,;  I' 'y 'lifeessatbfet
1                    $.," I *    ;~ }+  ,  '  4     4x~y  F   4
e s rkaNat      o und'   t~ar~"tke  priiu
h   L           , &amp; ii 4 ~ ~ t I ,' *'i" u  t dj ~A.fo he W a r e n s anA4( m

P1E  1 LZFE

her~tli, ftt''  mny  n'tw  '    ,eb e'ore t e,4i "wi
eati. lep ps w(7y  7ere in t4w hloqs d ' fter' wb3hol~eb Ma.n-
td l'K .iocky  n -his, tomnahawk ont, hr bi4f
the inocet grl e~ te4't~ foor xIi Uliu 'eir
blood' w  it          p ath !V e of4 Iher,: parent,  ', ' 1 r ,F.   lh'nrtlte
Indi!n'o left t he .cbin, as  th'e son. was .hcdinghi
lst eas of lighit upoanthe :fores;but~h, nirei~
IlGoI over, what. a fh ert chil'n Yenee of }so
row and death vaw' as tatvengl' c1'ng :  '
As already 'stated, i t.wWk, kate Th tbe'fnio
wherUfln youns em rursta'ted.'fr assistu  ~cl Y8
qgentl it was some timoe rafter nig btfkdP wheite
companyreturned.  , " 1 "4  .'  , . { ,yt   1'
'Tvr&amp; a ,dark and  i1~rny 'night, za oThi
death-like g oan hadse ttled upton h eildr es1.
N4t one tw inkling,star,)peep ed th rough th44 thck
foliage of that d eefor eat. No, sounds b _&amp;_,
save iau :occasional y ell,'of 'so-.e prowling w  r
Th little p t yqtsickened : er,, paoe7-P1bip =was
all anxiet,.r4t length teoutlin'ea'of thai feit
ottag e tdimly- : tr ce'd'throught th  e deep 4kireA s
of re x4,' r4 be,a  . :';v ible.Vnig
about 'fifty !5y ardls QPh. n4bn 4e~h~e~~$o
light ? }   1via~rbl  no sound) washad  Sli&amp;
unb ,oeain4; 4e pyportentious 'hld its h ox e
to e1, '!4 f Cou 4the family ,bavexgone toY'0S4  .imp
p~sheI~    o t,    e          Yn os fth  'ty
W9 9ud a          te of stQ hlcabhilnng 'ii
deeply 'agitated;, he would have rneWl14
m ad'ly, andfearlesly thro t.4 ,k''$"1o ten' t 4
b{tnd, if S  y~I~ i''    {r istxA  , "  .tW W.   T i j 
V ib e,, ', 1J               '   /  y'
A1" itati fr'v  held'ih  i&amp; it'+ 4
(wieteres                       ;taw "'eid hl n'k~'


POE* LI1*e

ascAIb    e1tain th , d &amp;  e6of ffr&amp;,   r'" ,t
n~sA~eordi Ili g4             ~hh
~nIp*igit¢  t   ; b1k ihdlWfoih u 1 r ~ i~
o/ dAt4darkness, ._ wile a 4ep. A  tf1 k i ke  f :' t f"'tj
&amp;mto :i1Q7  r ' Creeping'M15 iy   i un dto the
door, he.r $bn i 6 artia1Iy opeh, lead ctiui
putting his  Iianiridfridht h      frws
41 a~dwth blood.   i  oi'stk fears thelx ..were
fully confimed;-b"  ti~kn   hat te1 F  as
uzigh     b Aisi~e ,waiting ft=-re return  fthe
y~un Rman, he didJ not :think it+ prudeiit to: 'euiter;
buteauioilyandnoiseesJyreturi~ed tot l ~r p
_ tiihering he i wf  h e  m Find ri .Cofhilipi Was
thrown ihe d     -a oth~nyand he wept; while
te,     x~y-,4ly d  i s J syn atisec with the son-
'4SI 5 ii ' i , s  is n  daii -icoi °e; i.
d earful yelli he o;d£ y,;and,  6ld have
thi9w    e  % 2 s  hici 6.nion&amp;a-uOsd,=zinto
is hnds cif  e:ni aaed..Iwithbut $he
~  ~    Fothtqel  nm~d
f '  a   :afa k      i    4~e  him_?   ove r
13~ e~d~y~th falL",,figho~i h uih

fIR  R' F  4 r  II "  hi IF"
,t  'fr  '"*l  '  Y    "F     7),~r
,;                    i
2p i-ji,~cie   r  .  you,~~     't
yo   "  rifh

'haw&amp;tno doubt butt hey ,re} ,1! it, e im :. 6fIh
Indians ls prisoners, an~do  A  x y mope  th~1eirre-
'zovery is,.to set out i   eaialiyotsis an  and
git     p            1 vthempurstwit..]-V is'm-d  .  atmpr  ti
ithpour Yresent fore , and;, tie.  gavi w i r~ot
in~ch far be ore -,o. m' o
A fina1 party of "them--are now lying :-a  enb-
in in wait' for your return, and sunder cover of dark-
ne si will certainly murder ,you if you, attempt to
Vist te a i before ornmg~'
The thought that .his friendr.wI"e on Y k{:.  a
pri~6ners, -g ave the"young hnso ~E4#of
h op  e,  Yan d  he  beoain&amp;   m ore  ca l m n d  4 6,, ,p h e c  rpa -  h edre ra edle
h fa  dark  an4le b   ni ht;" an ,
while that little $;n' of Woe   tiint' ad-
ve t re s  r   d It er w  t r w h'he., g ,  y  a k esof the , night, to  the- cabin  of M r.  Hill,  situated, near
where, the thriving' little' village of: Lucasno
stands, where. they arrived some "thn6 after, nuid-
night.r
The family ofr. l  0l~re xiuch,  5    the"
jet oft                             V   "twas
then cot                                he
was o    fri .,ee
WO'ee o,0                             with
bitter ,toughts~-4he probable f ome'of i.pnt
axed sister, brutally sur ered ,or ,in  ;ie. ,-ands.,of
unfeeling savages, -suffeying. the mo~st cr e i .ig

.VA ",.


! ".s;~~

:~r a 1~td~iy~e&amp;  ~x ~    e upo ot n w tiIe
for st.  1{(+]e  the eed.iong ter 'ee~jp~gthe
oa? n     ain ips ateir :wild;eon's'of' devotionI
"o Him who ti ped their gittering wiiewith goI4
AnTd   e s  '  tiigtled AtheIr 'h  ai4 ii j {R~ e4"  '
'Tasa iVe ,s     'e .s 'mornng"Life and' an .
nationn 1Wereidrou ~dhli' aii'd utder" other crcum-
ta   ; sran44:her .f~lin~s, the' young nafl would
have, sallied forth. into' th~f&amp;de ptankgldc  i d= ood
y  ;1 .  i  1   'r ft( r  4"'A( lf--X  v he  w~o~   ' f rrt  }
A1h0  V ~i  t a ffor . wild"
But sorrow, filled; 'F, Jwazt-a  ,one thought
to.      'dr zrbrain the'fate of. hits friends'.
A4'terhodin a, y onversato n, with Ar  ili
was agaremed.: tha t ,ey  iin  dat 1y s~et  o  for f4te .ns mi'~ i
'"T #  r . - j           l   cf_ f- i 7 2  jS  3 rdi  'if

"A' A4
r             y ' A

A           ''4a dcAwe e  iQ u
A          ""  t
ti

n             r''   'i    ir'r.+       I i'     I -          r.         ,i      +.k     f    r 1i ,+} r 2, r "         ru4. 3'r  r  o    !                                          c    t-  1".
f    ,t s          " v  r"s                                                                                                                                                                                                 / -
s    1.  , =  l  41 iA   ll   .1"                 'r                            f      4 y      Y, y .i;;                         " ',  $ Acv                                    .
Jr,
A                    i'' " r,                                                                                                                                        i._                                 1.1"i, " f  i ' .Y  f F :  to +l
fiF         itt 'y     a,         Ic                         4'-         - i                                       -              ,  t.F1'a           i377y"            }7  j          t        §       -t ^      r   ti           ct1
Y              i+          ;R                                                                            t    " 't  {,   }r; # j        ;  trFh   'rl', ,       titer'  'r ' ""t'   li          '     ,l       yt VA            f '
F"     - A    ' { , 'Fs  j. t',       c'.         F,       .,'t  ,-"     '  1" i,'-iL  i '       '!"   "tc        t:v    j',    ,i-              'i.i                               '  _  .' , , + st"1:'        ria
_             "      y    '  rria_                        I               ,           '            _        ,  ,y    , ,             'i          f     r                             ,            y              T         4,       i
.I .f,    _      t "{              t=,      _r       {' _4r                   r      t          l G   - V_11..7      , T'      ,    "'  '     ' '  ( .j      ,ey F' Y t, +) ' Li r          ,f "y "    j'' S,  :o.i    '   .  (  f -  , ''t   t
},{, r;+ .Si' }'~y             rl         ~ l":        ,X      ~ "            ,t' , t,'  yr J' { " a ty     f,   . }           , r     t r. t. "tt     .a - ,     .. p F ':! yL        :r; '..,   j '   h
r                   "  ,     Fk . .aL' ,1'        4       i s   t       '           ~       R                  , t a  k                  .f
}.,,      t                              e  +   a"  Y ,st    ar-t               .'Y              ru   tnr"r      K.       'ti.  ,           'x"            .,4 F.    -t                          s                "k' sttI',r
V              CJ,

128

r
4'
it
jr
S +
.1

i
i

IA' ,

PHILIP DISCOVERING. THE DEAD 13ODIA8 OF ~IS PR  S 8'
but lo the crew4 beheJ4O with t arfuleyos ;
I'he sidftning sight with  much surprise ,-LEEs.
In, a few, hours 'af er the party" of's1i  a
left the' Block , House; It hey arrived :at he cabin of
Mr.. Seymour, wh e e th a V h  -~t ,b .J c spec-
tacle" presented it self._ On 9nteri the yar4 . the'
first   object that pe&amp;eied its~1   tr
bh o  ' xf ifeir, horr i iy t il to)PO  r
there he lay, bloody  nWh~r1N9 m+   a e    ±.
h7 trgtd mian    =- h    6e htC4ftJ  o   .
p oration  'in' defence o  "  1fmi  uf 11'r  16 1bugreat'tfei~
adi "flQc , tAl ti  " "  nd ' n there he l'ay i ith the&amp;a e Q_
1atI&amp;  xis'-countenpnce; which  VOZ the i~id
of death coul4 not &amp;ffa e.
Bu ~on, eiter i ite cabin the  h  .W Ws mosQt
horrible;" there-layA the wh~ole;faiui y'
most; brultd    id.'
ste ayb ~    r   . itW h4  fyblbdr'ae
of Ruffner, sp  -g itoth r e a i,~ir;, y  wqrst
',  kd" g &amp;1stjfl   sit oir. h  aa'r
'Ot ,Tt y?
cf "'* rde  } fle  ,F 1     SrfliW  rib4, tared

'  l r  .  ' '

'A ''~
f

,Pnn iA %


him in the   . There lay theb.ody re aala o 
alithataa dear to him in life. &amp;t length the
silence was broken, the youugman spoke. "My
father ! 'my' mother! my on  iter, wn  to God
Ihad been here to have shared&amp;.similar fate. But
all is over. The finger of Providenc  has touched
you heavily."
Here Philip gave vent to a floo4'f tears, which
moved to sympathy the hearts of all present.
Again the youngmangke;he had found relief
in tears and he bec nte iore calm and resigned:
"'Tis done! the bloody deed is. done! I am
left alinr blitI :h&amp;{,  iit t this deep aliction.
My sister, my dearest'sister, little 'did I think on
leaving yoii hIdt  ould ' d youon my return
th s cold jnudaih. h
'Youhave passed from Ihe _eni th, 1bu.t I' vil not- deplore thee,
= c *4 yoar rirnr froi i aI0140 lIbtj
The Ii rget bpw ud gwho hadeest tihe
kt heto n in mornings swee  prime"
to his c~napllo,:tk 1i   p. aj
., " u n r;vo-a.  It eg ing
e  iaitened upon is  nF 4 a{ "g  34 tc+4
Seothe cqbrgdogr, his ey s foy          pc-
a  f d uonliis Wg   p C ody"B r
asi,     he, -de rae  moment  pase, yg  de-,
s 'ive aet  f toe Duteiysterousare  g  ways of

I1

throne. What a sad change had been effected in
but a few hours, in which a world of woe, sorrow
and disappointment had: risen before him. Here
hesa, alone, while on other occasions the company
of Rate, had .made that place a home, But: alas'!
she would never more sit in this 'sacred spot.
During Philip's stay in this cool retreat the sol-
diers were busily engaged in making preparations
to bury'the dead.
As soon as the graves Were1dug and all things
in readiness'for the interment,Philip arose. and
once more gazed upo the. remains of his' friends
and companion. He had nerved himself for this
occasion; and as:8tdod for a}n moment gazing up-
on them  for the last time on eath, he turned to,
his friends around him-
t' entlemen," sahe, Ihe  "I &amp; u l.W 1eft,4ne-I
hav none to mourn my  Ts .   o ,the     of4,{1ry
lkn leige riot a dr9p ofp my blod ru;e
sf: onppiving          I thazk ryof  ro   e
bottom f,,y heart for y ugeesdy         p-
S seiin t:  aons,11pg' to  nttla  gser     ;e
nm;astpgrthly frig:ds.., 4ndow ove, 1 e ys
of4h:se {ny   rinds and. co a n ppm a  r qfe
prec of their departed spiritsawiph     hpe
o94Qubt are nowlooig'down up mPoA'0 a.st
#   7vowQa lpody     venge. loffo b1oed
'lia£4 be my motto;, an ,bP ng the coppay an
a ectionate tageweil, hbo nde izntpthe Age t:

: t  ,,   ';,

Ilib Al   LIPg 0

r,                                            5                                            s'r
-?
r
'    p      _                              r
Jyy     k  t  H                                        1
Sr"                                                               '

9    I  '  f     r{"  +      S f     S
S+

* I

1      1 1 Y3                Y            '  '     f   '

t


?iONflflLIFE.                 3

9   9   .~               '
lb.

'Y'  f

CEAPTER XXI.

'94
S '?

THEI- COPUS -BATTLE.
When the wtr whoop's startling yell,
f W~cke.U ttn
On the    d swift echo  tell,
~''i the i iurderous weapon fel,
On the victims of ,theit spiie.'

As' soo as hearty mentioned in the '!eceed-
ing. chapter; had consigned "to 'their last resting
Pehe bodies of the murdered, they , ii"d
4th0   Iac kIo se. 'The'neWs of this ifderas
S  ad i eereiydirecti6n, and the affright d"'t-
t fs f toie to ee Bklk  ulouaes for safety.  ery
X     .bi! dnow.eamed  tenantless,  and  t he  i1,hole
do trft fflledv"with terror. Amongthe' faiities
'wrh tok refuge in ithe;Block Hous     i  Beaid
4d ', Mill,'sI"that'of Jhines Copua  he had taken
"The precaution to remove his fa l ly} 'inirdi-
ately ' af-er 'The niui der of' the seymour family
Mg. Ogpi rliainediin the&amp;   e ck 'Househ h  ew
day0, 'Quiet having been restored, and hearing of
no more depredations, he concluded to remove his
familyback tois farm.   But before leaving the
Boek House, one of the officers promised him to
encamp at his house in 'theYevening of ,the same
day, as hewas going in that direction, with a par-
tf of soldiers, for:the purpose of reconnoitering in
search' of marauding ba ids of Indians.  "With this
consideration, Mr Copus and his family left the
Jlook aouse and arrived at his cabi in the early

ti
z'              1                                              r
4 , r7  _   I,       r fi                i          '             r    .   +  T   R

i 3 j

pad of the day, finding all thing ;as:they had Wfh
them.          b
A small ,arty of soldiers, wishingto hav e &amp;sit
tle recreation in the woods.had accompanied Mr.
Copus to his cabin. There weresSome lei t-o;I;l
nine of thee.Herethey spent the day invarious
sporting exercises, little dreaming of the awful fate
which some of them would be plunged ere the risi
ing df another sun.
As' a matter of"+ some satisfaction to these the rea-
der, it may not be' out of place to give a short de-
scription of-'the' 1o ation of the Copus cabin
This cabin stood at the foot of avhigh rofnintio'
bluff, about one quarter of a mile from .the:b n s
of the Biack  ork. This bluff oirerlooks the,'ur-'
rugcu r some distance, affording a.
most beaunifui prospect from  its summit. About
three or :four rods from where :the. cabin  tood
there gushes out of the hillone of the beatap in,
of water in the, country." Mr. and Mrs. Copunhfid
chosen 'this locality on account of its romantic 'a
pet; and 'this  beautiful  spring of  wateISr.=h"Y h
spring 'stood i between 'the cabin 'andaesriadilnlg
barn; andla newly cut out road run parallenwith
tielluff and its base and between it and thyeaby
in'  darn.' The:,range'of the haLftisnearly noti
and sbuh 'and terminates in  '1w "p6iht  onr the
banks Qf theses Black. Forks The .oabirt' aud'arn
stood on the west side; and 'a small patch of obbe
inroastingears stood. near-'the:calin, .0a 4ay aure
rounding. it.'
'Thi{ash near'as: we can describe eras the ia1tion
of thecabin;Thespot w   wildly orantigt4
well   aliated tinspire fthetheadidier e wi# 'f
and froli', wi.hahdee  ty'e0 &amp;to4j.in
the higher tdeg0e, Running ,    igagld ;wre t
ling exercises engaged thfeiratentiondd  etm
nil'  h n  nb     dhStant         t   ikJ'
111h   tneik eidtedsan          ilaite


134

s   4:dewdfni ghtwere settling darn tpo .i the ferm
est, Mr. Co pusand the family would turn their eyes-
u$the mrad, dxpeeting every "rnte nt, td ee the
ofeernaudghis soldiers make{ their appearane;but}
they  omised and camenot.         .±
the shadesa of night advanced the mind of Mr.
0. bhebure unaccountably agitated.;.Asort of ielb
anhohlfgioiegathered overits and .trange.fan-.
cies rose before his vision. He communicated these
feelings and, forebodings to the soldiers;. lut they
only smiled at his:fears telling hi n that they arose
altogether from the. impressionsleft dpon his mind
onm-seinag thy murdered family of Seymoir, but
a ewdays ago.
NineTo'clock  came; 'but theofficer and -his  s-ld-
ierswere not to be seen. It was then agreeda':to
layddwn an.d rest till morningrthe soldiers  pro.
posing to sleep in the barn as thenight was =ex-
trnly Wardti.'- To this proosition Mr. C objected.
silpreiAing ghlt there wa    me danger await-
inig hi  alifn., But the soldiers pr~sisted.'in going
00Mtary to Mr. C    pst earnest protestations.
%i .dgthat he could iot prevail:upon them to
r siitsinrthe houserhe consented to let them
ohe py sheban:with{the understanding that they
8-'Return tothe cabin before daylight in the
%denhag  Te soliers ythee retiredto the .ba r,
ad    ifr Uopti d4tIe family to their bed'in the
kg*,1 k a    enhis bed, his mind became
more and more agitated. He felt satisfied -ikt a
fiafuttornwaitedth m 'Trehedhad e    no
s~mpnighsiftalaibut hi feelings were trangely
au'45ath eniinvisible ag   t a#he pposedT
hi    t   foftla thl;tdairgxhe nghkt h dogs
kleVy duat&amp;y      itignir The  I~bie  ou4the
ce9Ea       bbarkldtgadrbeen tor&amp;fthanrusuals
whchtconsiderationhelped t increase his appree
'04-

T

*hb!it was a fearfulsepess ightteiat Ap
piQs -family. J 1Mr Copts deeply felt, tdhpdanger,
1ait resolved to riieet themeergedeye itho ti de
and heroism.
The night was clark and moonless, nd * theamnei
sengers of death silentand frightfuthad gathered
themselves around that solitary'cabinireadrat the
appointed hour to site theit victims to the earth"
Yet no one. of that little band, ,e'. ogus;
dream-ed that danger was:so nigh
'Twis morning buit thetrosy tints of  day had
not yet appeared)as the soldiers enteed the cabim
Mr. 0. was yet in bed.; Again Xhe: a s.red thein
that ii his opinion a fearful struggled wasr igh at
hand, and warned, them to-act witieaution. The
soldiers smiled as= before, remarkig That hisid
was only.under the influence of undcedsaily dlars.
After the soldiers hadshtki d coiersedwhile
with thefamily, part of them  greadg to -
spring towash ftheniselyl _   r f"i,6r
-tod Tem  nt to act so Rathly.-t the      is-
ted andwent. Mr; C:wanted th n1 ti .e1se  ley
went to take their rifles  ith thkffi441itt r-i
fnaed, add tot°he  ing;Aetingheieri~ea
aeinstti°hecabin ontsidke *heh"'i thet ac of ish-
ifg, alongloud and soul-chilliiel Brent Utl air
as if a hundred furres hadfjusebeif le1l4e
fromn  he  iMe1  n d iniaF  Si t ; t tt, 'e in

PioNEEgUFE4


*IM                                            r~ii.         47

wteJafterw aedsin apartially putrified condition..
=h    fouth; whbled and like a chafed lion),
riighal hroagh the infitriated sava gs, burst open.
the cabin.door, and fell inside with one shot
tihroughK the thigh.             e
Ae~nowt ri to the condition of affairs inside of
the e hin41 hearing the yells of the savages Mr.
Copus sprang from hi, bed, and seizing his rifle
partly op ned {he doorin order to discharge-it at
the advancing Indians, but in the act of, dischar.
ging hisrifle he received a, ball through his bosom,
and staggeringbackwade fell across the table ex.
claimingy9 Mennam  :dead man,,but don't be dis
eourageddefend youielves and my family like
men." Hespoke no tore.     His trembling and
afrighted3wfeh helped him on his bediwhere he
breathedhisdast inabout:one hour. Just as. they
gellao t.e aoirgthe.door after the fall of Mr.
Qopi    ye nle his appearance as already stated,
and failinginside,the door was mad e fast.,
W   hter   .Copus discharged hirile or not
ea:iobe toldwith any certainty, but the. most
problem pini     bh he did, as an Jindian  s
irangdiately4 afterwards discovered lyingmortally,
woundedJn the yrd, aballhaying passed through
his boel,  i tisgthoughtthat both. 'ired at the
sean  i Pa4achball taking effect.,
pgo1endggpaies no w stood seven against
forty e4  give sagluers,:one. of wh  r eceydea
Q   I  i   ,. tlighe, it enryy topusaged
years, and Wesley Copus; heretheni were o f
revrwrhit   n e ve..ien andtwo  saar t fogty
fly      ps A'   a    ofuf   o dds. Dye's
W04w4      e ry Alyethe Jore it'at.ent4,
pa $ 1 ns with words of .e eo4e.-
hne                       ft
'inan' ia    Gege d of Leatherno f tGuernsy county,
dhjfo t.'. m  AV  ,   '  f.tA A e o ab  Ajot  ,;,

z.ry Hf.Dye, ageneral Are  s owpeie&amp;  pcntthe
ainn and sthe sharperackspf:fotyAes rang
upon the morni gai-{;whileean  e eger of
.death flew thick asihaiLupon ,tie al-at   o4r of
the! cabin; add to uljsthr fierceyeitlsof bh sfur-
iated savages mingl drwitWi theroa  f, hae  i es,
and you have;the   s='magled beorpf he nogef
battle."  But-th ere wer e,1raye heartsin tha t c--
in who looked death.In the fnce without ,4 trarm
ous emotion. Would that, we Xeould herezrecod
all their nanes.*
Inthe conenoen tuxt of the  rattle, a  iss  o.
p received a wound in the thigh; the wotan
aere, tan placed up stairs for greater safety '
SThe firing nowxbecame'incessant-+yvoley after
volley of rifte balls were poured in thecahinun-
til the door and walls were perfectly rikidadd
at every. volley .more than forty fig4fhul e1lls
rang through the deep forest.;;hg   , fpr the space
of one hour did the savages conth4 e'toy; firAinto
the house; but finding that they- qild ef rt hut
little inthisway they ascended thehluff, pd;with
rented yells, if possibe more frightful th4n before
cogimenced pouring their balls upon  e 1 cabin
roof, expected, to dislodge e tgewho hdt-
kenrefuge . up stairs.  They were    op pp-
der cover of logs and trees, and  pp
selvesin a4 gre secure ppatign.$ar4,a    V
ready falen rundthe house,;who    a QpZtgrTy g
to gain the inside had paid ?theforfeit of the1 in-
sglence. But to their no sta  astnighra+M  thQy
found that the side og the iitwas n'. 1r
at almost every fire sone reed skiu ryg1ek.
ie soldiers did notEwaste their g 41I FYin
&amp;rn atncertaintes.
There was a savage secreted 4Mbe  1  r    who
or someti ept p9 ip   g                  ain
**____'"r ., .._ud          A
*TI~w Who ve~e ~gts~kjI~idU". 00p,&amp;w&amp;jab

f       9

"l88


Flo ''B k l   #              1-r

dans fasta t   toald baaad    l      e     -
uenipts#eremade t  i1lodge rijimnbit to' no ffect.
At'la3s one  bthe'soldiers (aunit ,) who,, ad
been wbndedain the ato by'himdwhile remving
gehankfrmbtween th eloge; observed .his' head
pringfrom    ehinU, Ithtree, drew a bead ,opon
it,  ed, fd the ne thnoaethe waseen tumbling~
ina knetViludicrousmanner fromrockt rock, until
hereachedt'h bcttomeof the' hill, where ,lie' lay
quiet as ft iamb,iyanonadaring !to make him afraid.,,
At length the Indians finding that} they could
not'udeedeitheir undertaking,and thatthe re-
leae fasmre= po~erfu1'than they hald antii-
pated, gaie up i the efite .ling upon the4 bitw as
thly refieated  and'=yhavilg ' ained a eestai dis-
tancefrintilte khouseithey .sentupn'one mre siinul-
ta febu  ,i d mro Va tt id yell; ' and taking their dead
+4'sdeda    W#e son out f sigh t
At' wie snowl otut10' o'clock A.Me; the lceattle
Sh  lated    he'day 'light, dninig'hichtite,
the   aian  ad last about tenof their; nibet; ,as
ear  s  budne ascertained.  The number 4f
*hies ti}dI4aadounded hasalready beenstated.
On   torinpug theyfired upon a flock of sheep,
#hirahdurrititthat eventful morning had clustered
td thbr oho  eside of the hilllooking down:in
"Sueit 'on:that frightful sceneof darnnage.
T      a  ',1otures ut bled  dowii"e oneg afteran-
th    i    tefyin oner oriicuousheap
Great waste j   of 'that 1 rave band, on" e.
ho  ngiose b  odysavages retyeating aut
fearig that this wMs - yonl  done to decoy" te in-
matf frothe eal in it was agree that' 6niI a e
eh e- 'tihe1ouse, and h onl'shold'eseape
throu   the roofyand wih alpossibfepedx ek
for tr hoc   ous  "' fo p'This was done.- He
h dort beh ne miiirefh itwo6 'h    hen
1k0iU up'ttheoad in',the direction of theOeek,

set.,. stealthily   creeping -aiwng thebushes. and
high gag  owarddhe cabin,
EUe,'now gavehemsel-e-over for 'lost. Eah
look pd in the fae of. his companion, with a;sad
and sorrowful: gaze. The m9thef clasped her ,h'i
dreg to her bosom witpl that fondnes and despair
whi h none but a mother can feel under such trying
cyrournstances.
" oldiers," said one of that noble band "sellOyre
Jives, dearly. Our situation; .isbopdlssl_;and urnr
condition desperate.. Look upon this poor; widow
and her seven fatherless children, and may, the
sight inspire, you with the energy of rimipotenee,
and the daring and courage of the very God;of war
On with the battle-.death. or victory,?' shout,
ed a hlfden voices, an a spirit of unyieljng
r incejsatpon every heart within that little
buj~d . ided  -cabin.'       '.t  1 -Y*  t ,.
{   i' s~ld~ h grasped his rifle an4 taking supi
position as afforded tbe best, portunty of geg
the advane g . enemy, he, himself n realiness
for the  aiht t             ~"     ,'
Now boys," e)xclaimed:thp edye, though
smarting under the, pain of his borible wounad,"
aim at the harts of the red devils# and each ofyp
select your ma,.
Qwr O came the skulking fe4dpdgig fro
tree tQtfe . The number rin ga
h                             Ili bt
ma firm, steady! 1tadry j  '/  eserve RyouzJ I" f  qr/
titrI give . tleceimaiid, and gt h encleat " p-go- up  te
few  noments' more a d the ad     g
were within one hundred yards of the cabia there
headaniow and then perng above tl@ tp  f4he
f   ld 'hold   cried a voice"just as ithe party
were. about to gve    a ytenig Any   eret.
g sate- hold1there is' mystery eoeetpd
4'                                  W

i~ ~

130


1ON4OtNE

141

with t   afai . ,These ,e agre not Th iaxs i  .
A moment more and a party of Amerin t'=
diers udder the eoannand of p  n  Nrveld
themselves to the 'astonished y  joyful iriiates-
It asthe sme company that had promised to en-
oafulp at the house Mr. Copu the jreceedipg
e1eIng, but had been detaied froh some =e , -
and had encamped in the woods about thee  ls0
mro  the -cabeit
They had advanced in this manner uporthe
cabin; (not kno*ing ;what[ had befallen it,) for the
purpose, if possible, of frightening the soldiers, by
way of a joke. But they had almost arried the
joke too far.. A -+few moments more, edin Xll.
probability a fearful havoc would haye been'made
among that unsuspec: ig party.,
lint if the terified iates'were overoyd at
th  uloked     d;the olie}n3he         .8drs
were not little astonished in beh  dtpthe  ax-
fu havocwlii hli savage hi4 °iia amo ng th he
iihiites of th t illffed cin.    '
1EWinxg btiriedi  dead, the wound 4wer plac-
ed upolitt4reend barred upon their 1h+44   to
t'h BioMk  oedhea they redeive4      v i at-
tentioie       , toLTheir cefort;axe  n, a short
tie hey  dokere d rom their oids.
Sieh dear reader is a full descrijtirofothe bat-
tie #l$1l6i'orkeshiehonsideedinh#. of
nu"bss    id4unparalled in thi e : historyof the
StOteQifrinfoP efs* assured us thath ©to
l(tjs   '4et    nda   ea od'Gge we  e-
hibitd during the action  They spek       he
3  ierdis of he uageofthis littk handful
4    ef planatign, and we shall cQ iade
thi eEgtet. James Copus was a minister o     e
iIpheppeaehe       bo th ,Greentown Tdiauna,
h,  f, i  w i_ . r rb:t Y1',d  t ..l   k    . fi t "y_..+  -[ '+# -  L ,  4'        '  *  "  uled  the  fi 'r{4, t7   i"v   '
'"' .t  .   .i .    '  ....rwhe?1=.w.+irs  ayto pIae.  ' 4 r ti r+ dtr     1 W e  u I  f .y aijhl a ' i r7"'

and had enjoyed their utmost confidence. Upon his
persuasion the Indians had submitted themselves
to the .officer. Afterwards finding their village des-
troyed, they wro  fully supposed that Mr. C. was
accessory to the time, and that through his influ-
ence the deed had been perpetrated. Had the In-.
dias really known that Mr. Copus had no hand in
the matter they never would have molested him.
The officer who compeled Mr, Copus to accom-
pany him, alone st4s ,ancountable for the conse-
quences which followed.
\ a - 1/ #

140

PIONEER - FIFE;


143

S tr

22  i'                                                                                                              j

CHAPTER XXII.

WITH INDIANS -

Some few weeks after the urder
mour family, two young,enrwere :
on the ba the       e,
earnestly g gedin ev1
Onef:    w       ll   r
read
tiQfte  N  1klandSt.tes.e
cend  o '.'i   an' ee l/
fred p5sdaP ~   f~  l~

way tot4diMei ~t~~~nbo           h  rer
where he amie~ i  ,fwar~    er he had.'eft
Black Fork st     n i41~.
The two young ,men' had aeidently met on the

r,    .E                                   Yve
;1           )                       i
?                          , :        ,   -

e $ i     o ts of my       0,zth rly fr-w
was three years after the first curveyin Party larded, bere Thib waa
settlement n Northern Ohio.

PRUflIP AND

ALFRED BRADLEY-i'NCOUINTRE

e

/
\

banks ofthe stream, where they furnd each  th-
efs acqtiaintance.
Mr .Bradley" said Philip, after they had r-
ealed toieach other the causes which led to th "
adventure in this region,. since our histories are
simlar, I propose that we here form a league of
friendship, and unhe our fortune,e .they 0o
or bad.
"Agreed," said Alfred, I' am in. for adve iure.
I seek danger and excitement, an4, haye  ef  e
abodes of civlizationfor this purpose , 1, $ey-
mour, agreeablyto your nayratiye yu re now,  e
last of your family-you have none to i urg your
loss. Like myself you are left to meet the9hngs
and perils of life friendless and 419f'
"I have told you,.1have none _#o aon r  y  o  .
My poor motherdied. when I was yu ge ing
myself and-a loyely littfsister yourger ig1ray
self; in the care of my father  The. deaef gg
mother so preyed upon the spits of da   .er,
tha-hewas;f'orcedto leaveiCs, native Ste.In
the y'ar99,Zhewith      o"yse  an d.ister,egd at
ted to Ohio, settling down at tl+ :inot of.Con-
neauk Creek,* in, what, is now  c llad Aghtaula
County.              3
'i. the-space of a few weeks; after we laDded
here, gmy sister and a little girl belonging tto e
of the settlers were miBsdag  Theawho1Jiegt
rgten$     ut i reo pf   a"hJhid arn
9      "izg  them. it ragttheref9re, agrM
the clidren hadblaee devourd4iky


44       ,I~QNIBERME
dff 'ppp.exj. I was left ,Anpg sLranggrsa
poor srphan, homeless and friendles. i was then
put under the care of, a nman. named'Williansis who
somethiine afteiwards'was-murdered by the In-
dsi then Went to live withafamily named
Vt.onii e  where I remained for several years"
r   ' iy,"pli d 'Philip, 'our, trials and conidi
Lionsin life are 'ekarkably sinular  'ntthose
scenes are past and gone, and we are now entering
the     - .of"reate perilsbt I hope a kind for-.
tiio e  *iil p.!otedt us in our perilousadventures."
her,'the 18irsation endedaid' the young
piners 1#Af the aniks ofC the dtreathi and-after
ki     _tisi tl-ieghea yreparattis, started into
theM   ,en      -              l.r7
Continuing eir journey they ca ie to a solitary
cahinhoaibtfaset. ''
'Whatdeilightfui country " said Alfred.
"'Qdi~t Saantie," replied Philip. Tom its ap-
"sT spid Alfred; "did you hear that?"
~" Idi~  he sound is sfahiiar, aiid JTfo much
A,_ impff te h&amp;'nit suie h16oting t dobefore
_ ',et'el "  f tM buggBrsr
A'6&amp;no r yllbroke inupon" the forest 'before
Philip could 'end his sentence.,
uw block thekenterace," exclaimed Alfred
d gi vnthese howling devils a wai reception,
if aie cor within range of ourife '
s, No  br    iA&amp;   il  a 'ao er, ygell a.eeW
their~t   ;i ll' W-eateoo  he d e c. l
b h'it'k'ehgf in tei thf~6k-
SdX               T ir1nd7in
wei e6ed Al-
-t.  e                 :_    get      ik
k,'no,"hric/'fw ten riip; . at. ' "', a
eost                           Indiao s
t S         a  _ '   h

"Wb hop'hoop, how-ee," ag ot once nidre
upon ]he forest. sofie distance ii the rear ofiere
hid~eoeeslay secreted,
"By eghder/" eMia~iined? Philip,"w eare surro4d=
edJred divils. AIph 'keep ydoir ie        a
steady; and in case 'of.an attack make' 4versy ht
"Eet us moe somewhat" farther f-r  h l
of approach," said Alfred.
'An important suggestion," replied Phiip d
the soone the better."  Accordingly the two lun
terms moyed a short distance further into the °thik
et untiltheadv ncing party had passedhi  p tVh
open space and, joined, their companions ,apt the
ethbin, into Whioh the whole partyf oC ifmnter-
ed.        ' '
"lBy Hokrey" w1isperad A4lfred, tem is a r g
nent ofthem---at least Twenty-and giaptl oo tr
fellows at that. What the duce do ou think these
flos' afterr" inqiiied he
oftitnthpe bQe      anygodt'+t jetbv  ,
se tlers saidPhilip.f " a:t we sh   o      ey
iusi61o e, or I'  badly antstaken  ee
haves rcka, di ght iihe    bin.:,s,'i
that tbey'do not suspicion the presence "oftany
white man; jhey have not evew placed a ientinel
o nd d u ty."  4 , xh"crt_,+.  ,j  'r  +r 'i  + 'y
"13owm icbI would: lik~e 1.Iow. tlir b ip
hee" said Alfredi
" 41      re ild    i p i."a. eij { ,
h9 e      ua ewminute  org  util iht y a  £llysen
gg4tEse  i     dspatph of tch e r  si   a
a .sattisi, , :ate to soe ppo  e44
up    he white sdtters. +
e  agthge  "e g           e
bu4sprisoners?" 'akd Afr   d:    px t hM
much "maged &amp;t 1kr~   mtbri s dg spor

'

145

PIO4E1 ' , tirE..

I


144~N3~B~ LFE..

141r

"   e odds are too -fearful. Twenty, agaiusgtwo
r a on siddawe                e r
rather a, one sided game. EL, hark ILhepd
my nayne mentioned among the devils! LGood Eea'
vens. what businessengages their attention, that
inches them  to use. my. amea AfredIa   all'
a    ty    us steal quietly nearer the cabin," and
the young hunters moved within a' few rods of the
eabin do    where they could command a fair view
of the house. Here our heroes ly under cqver of
darkness for some moments, consulting as to' the
best mode pf conductiig their operations in the
"peoft "ease.
A they lay in t:hir poi don they coulddishne
yX, hear each Indian orator  as he addressed the
as semiblybut nderstodd but little of what was
said. 'i2O  . e or two otthe speakltrs, however, were
und erstood as referring to the burning of Green-
town, the inuder of the Seymour family and the
Obpus    Ie    .yr              faxiiil 'and the
"By thunder," said'Philig, "I am almost e rtin
so a of these fellows were engaged in the murder
ofhh friends-Curse their fe'd .hdes, hQW I wish
'could giu&amp; iiy vengeange ippn' then,, but the
odd  re to eaful, and I must egntent myself at
tis tine, with uttering ure  deep but not
'   1t1 ilip," 'ski Alfred, "I au aware hEat the
odds are fearfil4 ut the victory would be mor to
rioii o i cas we would oerpo.wer theT .i may
over rate our heroism, but I feel as though w:p
delno;shi everyred devil df thei. "'Let' u fr he
hoe her nth      e askeep, and when theyar
ai;o  d bytflamnesand' rush  ltthe door  on-
fu  n  w e'ah ~1uhem'oe and' al to th  ert
The sugstion+ at fr stn jght seemed prae ioable
to  i   , nd h       0'b  to enter in aa ge
met   t icary i  a peraton at a favor  o
portny but a eod tght rose p against its
pr      anoge the 'giga a

tr~me1y reposterois. "It w  i t' oit woi.t
saidTPhilip, 'after a moment's pan-the rd 4 ev-
Us are to numerous. Let us watch,' their move-
rents,'and wait a-more favorable apportunity to
wreak our vengeance."
"As you think' best," replied Alfred, "' sll
most cheerfully confide in your judgement. hut
I do not think it prudent to remain Here all night.
Daylight will discover our hiding place to them,
and we shall be made prisoners, and probably meet
a cruel fate."
" I think not," replied Philip; "these fellows do
not suspicion our being here, and by retiring some
distance in the thicket, we can elude their obsenr
ovation, as they will leave the cabin at the first
dawn of the day."
To this proposition Alfred readily conser ted;
and our heroes retired some distance into the thic -
et where they remained till morning.
Daylight was just opening in 'the'east, when our
heroes were awakened by the noise and bustle of
the Indians in the cabin, preparing' to start 'on
their work of destruction.
"What infernal throats;" "exclaimed Alfred,' 'as
a horrible yell broke in upon the -,morning air, as.
the savages left the cabin to pursue their journey
through the(.wilderness.
Philip and his companion remained ir" their
hiding place until they were certain the savages
were out of hearing, when they retraced their steps
to th-'cabin, which they once more.entered.
"See here," said Alfred. as he 'picked p f
the floor  gold' finger ring. In a moment Pihilp
recognized the ring.
"By the sacreL ties of fraternal affection, and
the blood of my murdered parentsa nd sister,'1*wif
glut d viengestree on the .red dediiwho st le this
picete  ger fri the  ah       d   f   '4e.
6t''istet. 'Msa the red flzi ngs of h'9'4'

Po EE tLY*

" ':
.        ii


ar" wither 1isavag heart, and may tehe candIte
 ofhish lfbe. extinguished amid the most exquisite
torments !
"fee.yondr" exclaimed Alfredr pointing in
the directionwhither 'the savages had bent their
steps,."see,there are two of'those 'same red devils
making their w y back to the cabin !".
"Let them   come !" .cried Philip, "they shall'
have a receipt in full for all demands against
them."
Onward came the two stalwart savages, little
dreaming that they were rushing into the jawa of
death. Nearer and still :nearer came the unsus-
pecting Indian.. OCrak.! crack!. went two rifles
at ,the sameinstant; and the two savages fell to
rise no more. Philip and his companion rushed to
the, spot where the fallen savages lay, but not un-
ti- they had re-loaded their rifles,. One of them
was jst breathing his last, while the other made
several unsuccessful attempts to gain his feet..,
'"hilip Seymour," exclaimed the bleeding and
dying savage, "me kjow you-me .help kill your
Father, mother and Ruffner-you kill, me-me-----
Her~e a convulsive hudder, broke his utterance,
and I a few moments he breathed his last.
p4.4ip and his companion stood going for a mo-
ment upon the fallen savages.IK was the first
dyed of dea9 rhich Alfred had t'coommitted, and
he 'eVi ntl isrugled with his feelings in justify-
0f1%a    e  cgied Philip, "wem st awa, it
ma   be that these&amp;fellow's companioimayihave
har 'the 4oaof ,our rifles, and make 'their way
beal again." "'
"But w'hat shall ,we' do with the dead,"asked
Alfred?   "
et              ts   ke a.feastof them "-
Ltpip          the yogg hungdbleft the main.e
talpgoppdite adireon, and stgpping. e0y

PipitgeAl49
now, ane then in order' to ascertain if they were
pursued.
'' Alfred," said Philip; "'those two red skins were
both concerned in the murder of our family. One
of them, as you heard, confessed the deed.-T{'s
one,.fell by the ball from your rifle. -The, ther
one had not time to confess, .myaim wasItoo dead-
1y: Thank I;Ieaven,'they havershed ;the last drop
of innocent blood on earth.Vengeande hasover-
taken them in a moment least expected, ; ;They
were, no doubt, returning to the cabin in search of
this ring, as it is a :valuable one. But, the rea de-
vil that gets this gem from me must first take my
scalp."
Our heroes were now. doubly armed, as they
seized the rifles of the fallen Indians, and tarried
them along. C ontinuing their journey they came
to a singular spring of transparent water whieh
formed a most'interesting natural pheIomenon. It
was now mid day, and the sun was pouring its flood
of light upon the surface of the water, which being
refracted and reflected the various hues of the
rainbow appeared upon the objects "at the bot-
torn. Our young heroes gazed, with admitation
and delightpon this natural well:
Afteriatifying their curiosity iethey eon in-
ued their journey,,until they cameto1as
ing onh'e side of the hill. Onenteri     4
erture, they found to their'Mlittlte te
a spacious cavern, presenting most  gnifict
appearance inside, as itabounded in beautiful
stalactites and stalagmites.
The inside of thi cavern presenotelJ sis f b e-
ing inhabited by uIndians; as our herosfound sev-
eralIndian trinkets lying scattedki&amp;  o .  dour
young hunters ti.tfered this cveiferdyu  af  a.ath-
like. silence, and fearful 1lo6n2
"Philip,"' exclaimed 'Alfre S"hi~ ca n 'is the
retreat ofa-     ''  4

0


PIT NEER ,4Wu1.           151

.                  .  1 onspy A .A
"Whit polluted mortal' dare intrude upon the
sanctity of this hallowed abode," interrogated a
'oen vice from the depths oft this, gloomy dun-
gean, before the young man could finish his en-w
teice.
"'What spirit of man or devil, holds his gloomy
tihone i iu these dark recesses," demanded the
yonngman, on hearing himself acco ted by an in-
visibleagent within?
What the devil does , all this mean," enuired
Philip; somewhat nervous y agitated  surely -this
cannot be the abode of departed spirits."
Young ian," continued the mysterious.voice
in a low apd sepuichural tone, "would you dese-
crate 4his holy place, at the peril of all that's val-
uable to you. Know you not that within this sa-
reedt and: solemn enclosure, dwells "the (Geniof lfe
andfdeath.
"IHodgoblin, devil, saint or sinner, or whatever
youImay be," interrogated Philip, "1 onjure you by
allthesaintsof h calendar, to tell us where we
are, whoyu are and what freak of nature placed
.ou ere-"
"The voice otfPhilip Seymour, the lag of the
Seymour, faml,"'replied the voice, " know you
youngian, four mission hither is one of blood--
you seek frevege forthe  iood of your murdered
rglato4        ypugg inan, Iwould have you e-,
~emrber that- one
vnetri  is  mightier than thou hast said
e ear  iane,ad I'will tepay.
"Nay, nay, ysteriousstranger," replied Philip,
Swib          ictof ny own vengeanpe, I call
o@ ktp   i:  ohen strength han imy own, and
ah of4 ,g ng   ion with me ,here. But pray
are yeu a dgd qgpeEying sipt, your voice is famil-
iar, and yet  cannint intil i. with any living."
agi the voices "you kgew me
once, and is it possible you woald soQ aen forget

all my b'±t         o     tL
in th
re"Mr $m           Y                                 calm
your feeltgyot r                                     allo
*Thiis caV&amp;i vt$&amp;but tWO miles                      t ijow
called Erie county. It w*as well known to mnan f e a6iigines, but not
known, to any .f the whites ave the two young heroes of our ale. It was
discovered a few years ago from the circumtance of a dog pursuing a rabbit
 anaperture at its mouth

me.. :You ask me to reveal eyself. to you, this I
wilk dQonone condition'"
'"name it," replied Philip " aid I will comiy."
"1Rut will you swear by the Great Spirit that
you will not reveal: my name or ,this locationYo
any ane living, except.the young; man now with
you, and to him only underthegsame abhgation"
"We will both swear," replied Philip.
" Then," said the voice, "in the. name f the
Qreat Spirit, I invoke His;ARgels as witnesses' '
and. so saying, a tall and; elegantly, shaped [udian
Chief mnadehis.appearan e, before th' eyes of the
astonished hunters. ,
."a: tain Ppe.!" ejaculated the bewildered
Philip     hename of God, Captain howoame you
here's .
"Young men you seem much agitated, and no
little . astonished," replied the Captain. Compose
your minds and I will reveal to you the history of
my life since last we met. Yours I know up to
the murder of your family."
"But where is Lilly," as d   youg hunter
hurriedly.
"Ah sir," and The old ini4  hun ;do;s head
and wept-
"Is any ill befallen her"        j    with
breathless-antiety,
"Her life is i thA bands  H$ve it,
but, where s   ;. ;_Idisap-
pear i~du1jry '
"  ef              a odtd are

I

I

151


me to my innerechamber and I will give you all
the particulars of Lilly's mysterious disappearance.
Accordingly, the two yourrg hunters followed
the old'Chief,rho led them through several 'ap-
partments; until they came to one more 'ample
than the rest, which';was the one, 'which the' old
Chief rested, singe he had taken 'up his abode in
the ..vern.
Ahi  ; the, old man had led our heroes into this
aptrment, he ba de them be seated, and taking
down some  kjei 'and honey," requested them to
pertakeaf his hospitality, after. Whibh he related
to them all he knew 'concerning the disappearance
of his daughter; and then concluded by giving then
aninteresting tradition concerning this localig.
This account will be given in the next. chapter.

f

:4'";

CHAPTER XXIII.'
DISAPPEARENCE OF LILLY PIPE-THE' CHIEFTALN S sTOaY  n
HAPPY HUNTING GROUND.,
air Lill"'s''fame began to sound afar,
And many a hero, to'woo- her love
Unbent his rigid brow. Shie favored none;
But frowned upon them all-
They, vengeancevowed.
"Young man,"said the old' Chieftainafterhe
had shared his hospitality witi'his guests, "a" few
days after you visited me at ny cabin, &amp;mr mutual
friend Johnathan Chapman asp paid' mi'a "vis it
He highly complimented your father's family, par.
ticularly your sister' Kate. '4ee nifested much
anxiety concerning the safety }f61the fmily, add
expressed'his determination to wa ylioig' any
impending danger, ifin hispower.  e   pit the
evening., with-us, duringiWhich ihattentio yeas
particularly' directed t6 TLU iip ra  .n risuc
tion. -The next 'morninghe;.bia   areWelld
left for 'Mansfield, sitc  hihtvhe $ard n6th'.
ing from him. 'in a;' day or t'  fiterward my
daughter and  ieft for Clelnd liere    riV
ed; an safety, and inka fewe ayss.'+ a a i  ;
Lilly disappeared,since whih no tdi0g fs'abas
reached my ears 'coneergin'her 4;ecte m
lqss sets.heavyy   pon u   D. iW     1ein
tl   s r rds of some unfe  vi sii      ag
fud the. hand of some pxii  ygung  r0 .t
enough, myy dealinga 9verenen'me, aueyes

PIONEER Zr             "

152

'
s
,{
z  .      ,.

.      t                            s                                             r      S      I         r     .           t                   I     e                              .
t


overflow with tears, There is one consolation left
me, and' that is, I have commended her into the
care of the Great Spirit, whom I know will protect
her from a cruel fate."
Philip, who, during the old Chief's pitiful lamen-
tation, had sat a silent hearer, sprang to -his feet
as the old man 'ceased speaking-his eyes were
suffused with tears, but wiping them away, and
commanding his feelings, he burst forth into a tor-
rent of the most 'bitter aid bloody denunciations
against all concerned in the affair. Then turning
this e'ompanionn,.thus addressedrhim.  }
"Alfred in you' I hve the 'utist confidence-
your integrity and courage are beyond reprehen-
sion, and, now, with your assistance, and in the
name of her who is death r t ie than fife itself,
I will traverse this wilderness in search of that
angel, and resp uher,; or fall in the attempt.".
Phih   ' interrupted hisicmpanion, "here's my
l    nd# Mdi ygin the adventure. The soulofi
AlfeAd Brejley,:bugsnfor revenge, and feais no t
the .ac               '
onggh Y, 4egdPhliyp 'tis the voice of a hero,
a   withY  c     lesecimen of.bravery, and
da rng uragewe cannot fail in our undertaing,"
Buyhi     r  o    you gp" enquired the 6od
ma          d   n    , gnd-uncertainty."'
"We w    rvrr    t   wild fore4tjnall direc-
tpRsaid " isit          very 'ptt lea ent, ox-
loe ery h1     y.and, shot; every auspi ious
l9Qkipg4'    e dlurkinginthe woks.".
W We"a d n       "Withisuch determi
ntin            iou     cannot fail to be isuccess-"
fu  dp           it   e to  onferupon you t  f
laatig d.ol              inPipe"
'Th nk       iu  'thank y nre sponded the
young m'i; 'ryou blegig isduy apiid
aiid evfe~lm~iore'hanii , the utinoste confidhee
imte scediof 'ir adventure; bt re We 8tail

K

upon our expedition we would have you relteL
us the traditionfary legend connected with tii44
markable locality.
"There once was," commenced the chieftin, "an,
e ceedingly beautiful young Indian maiden  hoc
died very, suddenly on the day sle was obegrg
tried to a. handsome y ung warrior. Theyygg
man was a brave and fearless hunter bt,4he nmT
expected loss of his young mistress so deeply affept
ted ,his mind that he could not cease to mour fI
her night and day   The young. man often vs-
ited the sp9t- where his betrothed was burried,
and she would set there larienting from, sunrm  to
su' set. His friends tried to console him, but to
no purpose. War and hunting had lost their charms
anl he threw aside his, war-club, bow and mrrows.
He had often, heard the old people talking . 1f :a
holier and, happier land, where the sun ge {er  ;
down, .anal wh eve no sorrow and gisappointippnt
could enter. 'He had heard 1hem say ,hrwawv
lovely path which led to this delight ' poun 'ytg
which they called the. land of spirits, and drhem
all the true and faithful had.gone. Tispath i
young man wished to know,. as he had;tetermyned
to follow it. and join his lost one inthe. Jand, of
souls. Accordingly, after having rnadiep p -
tions, he started upon .,his jo urney,  t was, g,
clear, beautiful summerso.ing',The ageen
all. grep,,the fowersinfll. -looin, an4, thehirda
were chanting theirmnerry songs  ig he trees,
of the forest. His course, as tradition, affirmgl,
lay in a westerly direction.,
"For &amp; while the country overwhich he tra v
eled .presented no change. Forests, bills, ra1leys
andsureams wore the same ap;ect as in Jhis, _aiye
land. A   length he.Icame tQ a gregg  he~r  art
and dcly stormp  wrecked the skiess  Thg trge
we iypped if heir     .v rait
died and withered away.' Sunshine and warmth
T

155

164

flowuII LW!.


an.d peasant breezes were no longer felt. Being
scnt   clad, he beganto suffer with cold. Un
der h1ifeetwere pilex of snow, and above his head-
were s-en rolling turbulently across the heavens,
the murkystorm clouds. Weary' and fatigued he
lay dowhn to rest, after seeking a shelter from the
stories. During his slumber he d'ramed., In a
momentrh e was 'iii sight of the land of' spirits,
where hi  eyes] rested upon the object'of his search.
Soon-she Was 'by his side. "Come," said she, '"I
will shoesyou the red m, man's happy hunting
ground." "The"young man followed her until they
arrived at the margin of a clear running stream,
abounding with all rnvinner of the most beatitiful
fish.  "This," said she, "is the river of life.
Whoever drinks of this element can never die.
But east your eyes 'to the other side " said 'she,
pointing her finger in .that direction. " That is
the red mani's. everlasting home." The young man
cast his eyes in the direction pointed out, and' be-
held "*hat head'never before -seen. A lovely
aud  ein     unbounded -,forest lay 'before him,
through which roamed countless hordes of deer
buffalo anddother wild animals. Thousands and
tens of thousands of the gayest plumed birds of all'
kinds were ' nestling among the branches of the
treesfiling the forest with the most delightful
music. The forest was clothed in a mantle ofu n-
fading green, while an endless vanety of the most
beatifulnd fragrant flowers 'were interspersed
over theewde "expnse,preienting a loveliness be-
yond the powgrof description.
"fHow I longto wander in that delightful land."
said th&amp;iyoung man.
A,"replied the- maiden, "that wish cannot
nowe gratified. 'None but the Sos of merand
women neuter there. You cannot take your
bodyoyour bow and arrows there. You must
14k h saie rad~ you Oaine here, and' dwhR

the 'Master of life calls you, follow him, and hewill
conduct you safely through, and give-.you another
body, which will live forever."
The young man awoke, and found himself' in this
cavern. here he resolved to spend the remainder
of his life, which was very short . .n a few ears
he died-the Master of Life called .him hoyna to
join the company of the young maiden, in te spir-
it land."
Philip and his companion listened with' much
interest to the old man's legend, -and after pausing
a moment, Philip replied
"Venerable sir," your' tradition contains some
features, peculiar applicable to the condition of
my mind -at this time. Like that young warrior, I
shall start in search of your missing daughter, and
should I fail in finding her in some earthly wigwam,
I hope to- 'find her nestled among the unfading
beauties of the spirit land."
"May the blessings of the 'Great Spirit rest, up-
on your adventure," said the Captain, with much
feeling.
"And now .young men continuedhe, I conjure
you to reveal this location to none'but thoee in
whom you can repose the greatest confidence. This
cavern is known to. but few. In, factiknow  of
none living at thi tine whooare in the habit ,of
visiting 'this place. It was at one time th  resi-
dence of the Sciota Hermit, as he was ,afterwards
named. Heieemained here for sone time, but.get-
ting into difficulty, The particulasof whichloan-
not now relate, he left, and wandering south crn.e
to ancave* ear Chillicothe, whichhe "entered, and
occupied for some years.
"I is my intention," continued he, "to remain
here, until I can hear somenews, from my daughter
* This cavern is situated about elevet miles souti of Chillicothe, .@n the road
 to Portsmouth: At the ime the hermit 4m. HeiWittYcare the it was a
perfect wilderness. He 'occupied this cave fourteen years, atid 'did at 'the
of seventy years.

1~i

LT.

157

PIONEER 1IF


ProaZnR LIFE.

PIO1' E~ LIVE,

t may be that this cavern may be of some use to
ydutand   rhapa I can render you soit service.
Thereres realromiientwarchiefw, vhd are,
at this-time, under the direction of theAmeinan
Governmet, t6whom         lisi't
affair: These Chieff are well kiiown' to in, land
1%ingrmy friends, will lend m their aid in recover-
inrf daughter. One more Inustrequest you
and youd+companion to use auction and circumspec-
tion in entering this cavern.''
ie      mg men promised strict compliance, and
after relating to the Chief their adventure with
the Indians at the cabin of Gibbs and 'Buel, and
showir im thelingerring   lh they     found in
he abin,they eft the cave, and directed their
ourse'togads that region, now  known as Ottawa
cunt y, 'where they arrived a few days after a
CQ e eof skirmishes* had taiken, lace between
paryar of 'i'dians and Amrican siliers. From
this region they continued theiu jorrny through
the wlldexThessuntil they came to thi Rks2of the
M   mee    d   on 'nmied u' 'the'ei    !or soie
distance, until they camtue to the foot of the Rapids.
Thicpiaethy determined to in ke their,inter
quarters"
It w  b  collected that when the war broke
nu- iner e were then residing about sixty
rai i iat °t  ' flapld9 thi cou t .yt was oi'iin
a h  I  r i (Th a ' J    iigneun ft'fggin
core threat hria of arms inhe:var of 81, ain took place on the
2911 Of t sber Joshua IR Gidd'nm; then'a lad' of sixteen,'was present on
peasignB.  b   aisbed amaicsntof these skirmishess in lthe Ladies Re-
r    i seaertes cuah ihnenntry 'previo s to this expedi-
'scN        fou  or five mk n   cicorn fields downthe Agliz, and
'e re r  fde as a1000 acres of corn aro .nd the town  (the 'present' site 4of
Previous to 1812' only two white nen, asfar as krnownresided i this reion.
A C   ndert on 4 hefir ftit oadr ny fnoto ety 9n the Ma1ct ee.
Irh sftiled at- Fort Miami, i' 1800.' There  however, some years -prior, a
'r :p resi m 'ng her e nauned.Man'E 'rtogany,Rthe Ohief adopted. him; in
his thlbe under the name of 9aw en-de-bans, which means "yellow hair."
aghs was  deg e Mnard,'stated to our infornand,.that the
er j     l ' utrender1at Detroit,prsented itself by ths ap-
j~J4~n PSR fptyT ms dIndiensp, Butfter this battle, and the tregiy

ally the Indian's El Dorado, and previous to
Wayne's campaign was densely inhabited by the
red men.
whieh followed, white emigrats commenced planting their cabins there, and
at the period' bf which we write, there were about sixty cabins belonging to the
whites.
The surrender of tiull gave a fine opportunity for the Indians, to commit dep-
r~dtios. ccordingly, immediately after' this surrender, a' party' of Bitish
and Indians made their appearance at the Rapids, and,'wantonly plundered he
settlers of all the property they came across, and then returned to Detroi in
their canoes. There' were, however, three of this party who remained with, the
intention of plundering the few scattered families in the wilderness. One of
these was a young Delaware Chief, named Sac-a~manc. This was !the same
notorious Chief whose name was a terror to many a pooh pioneer family. Like
a stealthy tiger, he sought his prey in smbuscade. The dame ofSac-a-mane
was well known among tse-pioneere1 on .OA4 ireek, KIn x county; where he
distinguished himself in the scalping business. The cntion  o t  dean,
therefore, at this Period, was indeed perilous. The country was desolated, and
everywhere were seen scouting parties of Indians,

7i

'   ;- .g'a  r '.                           ,,.             ,          '                             ,,          ys",
. F j  /     r   4    k     Y,      $ x f    "A    4                y} ^  D    9 1 'i    +     r f 4 .{  !               V      5 4 4 1 1  t           {4   1    {J-    f. ''   ! i
J                      S x            l          r                                    7C'        1
d             ¢      ..     r i      . F     t   " '   ' "     '      '^ /{   c "~  i . f         {      S r '     i  ) .   . {_       t  T s     K f  '  1 C  .    ,-A C    , .
s{   4 ?'   a     ,4 i f K    ~   (        ,       _F-      f        r f  °.                                              F                            t
'qt        ,                {Sr        t   i"+            S          t    ';f)L    i       'f'  r     i ix    ,"4Y r..  ,r YV srr t      tj'rt               1 i,      it  '. =t  ,,d )#.
r j i  1'            l   t"     l i I   i_ !     -             +   " 1                               t                          fj                                       i   I .s
,.     i Z           J t J      1_!.

159

158

1
A


CHAPTER XXIV.
ADVENTURE WITH INDIANS.
"Again they moved with cautious troad,
Through forest drear. their course they lcd."
It was a beautiful morning, about the middle of
October, when Philip Seymour and his companion
left the Madme Rapids, for an excursion in the
wilderneani- Their course lay mostly in a south-
ern directgli{ Autumnal breezes where blowing
among the..*crest trees, whose ylow leaves indica-
ted the .  roachof "stern old witer."
Ta dbeuty in the vard year. In the
vern¢^.,iislovelines 4nd enchantment-.
the                 balm,     b us and flowers
sprint % jnriee      n   n1 the, heat drives
us i   e    Eid      hr   i~    ies tr sooth-
edb    -the fields
ar                               utreas-
ures                                     most
delicious             m, $i-          n looked
upoia 4     . *  Ia ,;b-o   $' 'teyear, with
it comes       y ofte                withering
of flowers, and the songs of the woodland minstrels
are hushed amid the howling winds which sweep
with desolating energy through the forest.*
"Alfred," said Philip, afterthey had gone some
distance, "our adventure is-Esomewhat
e, tutm        t cutin"perilous, and
requires the utmost caution."

"it may be responded Alfred, but our failure
shallrot be the coiseqa4nee efan.ywant of our-
age on my part. Believe be' sir When 'Iasufe
you that Izow feel as'tiough We culdfight a
iment of devils, and take by storm their smoky'
citadel
"Thunder :and Mars!" exelaimed Philip, so e
what amuse- at the laconic'eexpression of his en-
rade. "Wonder if you could'nt"-"
"Indians by hokey," ejaculated Alfredbefore'his
companion could finish his sentence, "see yonder
are Indians," and ,inan instant each sprang behiid
a tree'.
"The areall ill looking dogs," said' Philip.
T ey are 1N
"Nay," said alfred, "they look more like-painted
devils,'than dogs.'
There's a considerable sprinkling of then, re
plied Philip.
"More than a baker's," dozen responded Alfred;
"Curse. them,"' continued he, "how I.should like
to make my report to that tall devil in front'
"Keep cool Alf--keepcool," whispered Phili,
"we'll track the infernal dogs totheir kennels.
"What direction are they going,'sk; Alfred'_
" Nearly South," responded Phhilip, "keepilsdient
till they have gone by,'and then."we.ahallfoow
them  at  all  ha ards'  . '
In a few moments the Indians wer aut.of agt,;
bat thinking it hest t rer anguietartihf hd
gone a miie or two in dvance, ou hunteggessn
ed in ambush somehatan horxlogr    i they
followed eautiouslyinzputaut bait m ont speegedo
in overtaking them.. They' conhiudon   lei,
trail until the next day about non  e 4ssad1-
ly coming upon a newly cut road the dos) l
signs of .the trail                         '
*/ was wei4 known that about the  dddie of 'June, 1s8s the  reiu
left Urbaunl passed, through the present contues of .pgafl , ufn -
coc adWood's Mrq1~tga.'Tey a it rMt  d
erected Fits MV Arthyr and Findtay on  ' r ge rp  g4  M~
' 3' ''Juw2J

0


18        OWES rcOE ~n

Wha  a  rall this  r " ae1imed Thilip on
beholding is unookel for rod.
"Rather 1ysterious"' said Alfred, " but no doubt
it is the workof tthgse ifernal savages."
-Not exactly," said Philip, "the red devils don't
wg   on the rpads'..,Too infernal. lazy for: that,
besides Icannot himgine' of what benefit such -a
-oad would be to then '
"Let.us followthe south end of'.this road," said,
Alfred, "until wcome toits termination."
'Agred"8ai4hilip, and the young nienpur-
sued their journey, until they struck the banks of
a beautimA'tream of w ter ' on which stood a. small
fo~r  highi the. enred. Eere' they learned
that the newly cut road, was the one over, which,
th1194    saryyfr   'rbana. They related to
the commander of the Fort their previous adven-
tyr% *ed parties larly he circustsan e of seeing a
body of:Tnlians;whose.,rail they Jiad followed 17n
to theroa4
emThe om nder*as much surprised on hearing
thaVa party of Idians were lurking in the woods,
soraahiacquters  In fact atifirst he feIdis-
posedotocalli4nestion the information, but on
bNlg°aared thattuch' wAas really the case, he"
madeevesy preparation necessary for any emer-
gQer hroesodk refugea.during the' night,
a .d tC    ttanornnngthoughintrcary 't the
ear t     t'tio  ofthe o igei-.fthey again corn-
mane441irorneyand eonn,4edunhutilthey cane
ondt±eroiixaitiegrg~though which ran
th  beautifu1Kt an  of"waer .he Auglaize.
hssie       uoeiw i ts primitive 'grandeur," said.
Philipft $  companion. "How   oloveto 'gaze
upon such soul inspiriding magnificence. Here.
W a   aarin cebei  1sted 'b'hnmay'traveler . The, lo to" is
mo't ,~rattd4d~sAa sivduhd  .iri'h Itauriat foia~s . ince the'
Po   Ufo rE              ad ,)a lok  cabi'.five '_s er'e
ted near thie' spot where our hunter first beheld this romantic locaithy The 1og
cabin iRayet standing there'

through this ravine for ages past, has roiled this
ever restless flood of;waters, and iere, to daythis
same flood heaves and swells and rshes onwardto
mingle its waters with those of the great'laksino
which they are poured."
"Upon my word," said Alfred, much interested
in Philip's desertation  upon the se ne before
him, "y o are something of a romancer. e.you 'seem
perfectly enraptured, 4nd I was a going to say al-
most "beside yourself." But I presume your hap-
piness would be complete with Lilly at your-"
But before he could finish his sentence the crack
of a rifle from, some invisible agent on the opposite
side of theravine-wasbourne to, their;ears; intan-
tly the yo ungmen sprang behind a ledge of rqs,
near the water's edge.. Here the.,were hid roni
sight.;
"The buggar missed his mark, that shot  whis-
pered Alfred, somewlh;{t agitated.
"Perhaps not," replied Philip, " for.)dont think
either you or I constituted that mark."'
"KDo, you not suppose thygrascal sht at;us?" in-
terrogated Alfred, in a little astonishment. 'T^
"I do not,'"said Philip;.  "The report 'is 't9f dis-
tant. --Let as remain here:awhile.' and perhap gThe
fellow will make his appearance."
The place~ where our youngjpioneers lay, was so
situated as to prevent the approach 'of 'any iutru-
der withoutt detection; as the shades of uight ere
once more' gathering mover the forest, they ;de e-
niined to make this their camping ground'u}ntil
morning.'              ,4' ':
The sun had now" saxik~ do~ni ina gbldei giky,
behind the distant hillwtopsg-while' a nfl" Orb d
moon tee high',above fth eatern i o' dithed-
ding its mellowlight upn the'  liar ss
they rolled murmuringly in their narro* channel.
'Twas a night scene upon 1the Auglaize. A host of
glittering Stars sparkled in the heavens, blending
U

162

X8N

Li Tit II


their rays with the sot and mellow light of" the
Asour yon heroes layii this secluded spot,
meditating upon their situation of loneliness and
t ilthir attention was arrested by the sound of
footsteps over their heads.
Hist!" said Alf-ed, as the sound became more
andibile
"Bythe ghost of Homer," whispered Philip,"i'll
senthe firit'red' defil to the land of' dreis" that
dares to darken the entrance to this cliff. 'Now
AIf," continued he '"hold':ourself in readiness."
In a few"moments the cause of their alarm was
visible, fo befo re then stood a half naked youn
savage, as they supposed, 'eyeing -the i with the
lodka of a young tiger. '  a afmoinnrit Philip sprang
to his feet and idaised his- rifle to shoot him down
in h istracks. Click, went the trigger, but his wea-
pon missed fire. Alfred; on deinghis companion's
pece muss fire, broughthis rifle to his shoulder,
butnot seeing the,- Indian attempting to 'defend
himself, did not discharge' it at him.
"Stand said Alfred, "and deliver up your arms,
or you-'are a dead'dog."
"Hold ! hold !P" cried Philip, "My God'f='Alf, hold
off,' and springing to the 'side of the young .man,
clasped him in his arms, teclaiminge;."'Its'Bunty
Bily+-MyGod'Billy 'in the name of Heaven how
cane you here?"6
In.agenIllent. °Bi1ly f recognized hbis friend r hut
benig overcome with joy. at* suchen unexpected
reetingphegcould 'not speak. - Tears started in Jis
eyes, and with his arms folded around the neck
of 'his frienO, he, she d" aloud  It Was.thirst
4ime Bily hadeheda tear. since he had parteed
with his frieidsinichland Co uiny. Alfred teopd
ga ig upon te ewo ,w ithtstrog emotions ofheart.

CHAPTER XXV.
HISTORY OF 'BUNTY BILLY ADVENTURES-SINCE THE 'bEDER OF
MARTIN RUFFNER-FIGHT WITH WOLVES-UNEXPECTEI)
MEE'rING WITH INDIANS-THEY PROVE FRIENIOLY.
'      *ey talked of days gone by, and many a scene
Of pleasure in thei forest wild ;
Aut most of all, their -meeting in a place so strange.
William Buntly, or Bunty 'Billy as he:was gen-
erally called by the early settlers on the .Black
Fork,'has been introduced in a preceedingchapter.
But since the murder of the Seymour family noth-
ing had been heard of ,him. His disappearance
from' the Black Fork was a matterpf cojecLge
among the people. Philip had visited .ffner's
cabin after- th e .burial of his. parents,. and'found
it dreary and desolate... He had made.gqiry
encerning. Billy, but no one had seen ;hip . It
was, therefore supposed that he hade either been
murderedior taken prisoner.    '
Philip was no little astonished in  eetinzg him
aens inthe wilderness, so fa,,rom the hlnts of
civilization.  He was also constrained 'tod-t -
it:is vision. But, contrary to his expectations,
he foundthat th e supposedsan           t er
than the generus heartediRuntyBil, the i:o-
ry of whom, since the death of "hiss n astr,  ari
Ruffnewill fi      eubjectf tbs chapter.
It  w ill be  recpl1ected  that  Billy  t h d ira n' wo
give the alarm concerning the party of Indians who

Fi

'p
'p
A.


166

murdered the Seymour fuaily, the detail of which
have already been given.
After the Indians had committed the murder
they determined to dispatch Billy also. With this
intention they proceeded immediately to the cabin
of Ruffner, hoping to find him there, but had not
proceeded more than a mile when they met him
in the woods with his rifle, on his way ,to the Sey-
mour cabin., The Indians had recognized him first,
and secreting themselves'waited the boy's approach.
Coming up td them they sprang out of their
hiding place and ordered him to halt. The sudden
appearance of the savages alarmed him, and hasti-
ly raising his rifle -to a level, fired upon thre one
nearest him, but the ball" whistled harmlessly by
the savage, who rushing upon him was about to
smite him to' the ' earth. with. his tomahawk, when
the strongg arm of another savage behind 'him,
eauights  rm and held it fast at the same 'time
brotestng against the murder of the boy.
he saages held a short council as' to what they
Th  ld do With hIm, rAnd after soie
t wa    rt8               Foe ,conversation,
t Was, agreed that the should'not kill him,but that
they would make a prisoner of him,and 'sell him
to some Chief:-
"4You must come along with us," demanded one
PfTtKe 'Indians.
"Well thir, said" 'Billy, thinth  I cannot fight
yer--I ean follow' fer
"You brave boy," said his swarthy captor, " you"
make goodwarrior."
"'Thoo good' to  naurther women' and 'old folkth,
i'd iBilly.
'hiwith similar conversation, passed between
Idians  d the orphan by' Billy was alone
in the w ord=-hoieless and friendless--his 'life
wsa'pat the imercy ofbloody savages, yet his manl
and inTiedent spirit, soared 'bove' cowardice.
Bispe6a9roui nation would han~ danipened the

+      WE.

in

it

nosas ra.  -167
feelings of older persons, but Billy's heart though
but a boy's, was Indian proof, and fearless of the
consequences he spake as he felt.
As the morning ,sun was roiling his chariot of
light up the eastern sky, Billy' and his captors
found themselves on the banks of 'the Clear Fork.
Thay had halted, xear where the thriving little
irlag aof Beliville inow  stands; for the pur-
pose of resting and refreshing themselves., From
thence they proceeded to the banks of the Vernon
river, or, as it is often called, "Owl Creek." 'Here
Billy was transferred into the hands ofan old Chief
who with some' of his tribe, were on their way' to
the seat of war on the 1Maumee. The next morn-
ing after their arrival on the waters of Owl Creek,
Billy arid his new master took up their line of iharch.
The old Chief was much pleased with'the boy,
and gave special instructions to treat him kindly.
Billy recognized his kindness and sought ever
opportunity to gratify his new master.
Towards evening they came to the bank of the
Olentangy or Whetstone River, where they struck
their tents, and encamped for tt  g  N-ext
morning they again took up their  a eand con-
tinued their journey until they arrived at the banks
of the Sandusky, now in CrawfordC ounty    and
following the ba nks of thisstream, finally came to
the mouth of the river.
Thieg n was, di ths time, thefavorite re i-
deneeto   the Inian, and herg Billy found hi-
self in'the tidst ofsayage sdi  h ses y' ch
way! he would an  ggh'bt pinte4 sgvagesp et
h  gage, During his residence amo  te Indians
i th i region, Billyhad a fine pppprt ui t  ' 'be-
tI  .ae'inthis regiontbata adof~ Wyandtsoc tagng vd, caped the iju-
'tral kiation."  The~y occupied two villages, which were einies of refuge, ~ ere
tMeh soi' aetyna Var fil~ to indi Daurig bl ditru eun-
charactr as*s  nae'mkra~s aU wno*e oi the~ r"eshol "xiAa~ f1."


168

PONEE~R LIFE#

coming acquainted with their manners and customs.
He was a prisoner, yets. he had all the privileges
9fhissQegnpanions. .In:their sporting exercise he
made himself their superiors, which, on. several on-
casions, he fered would prove dangerous to 'his
'ife. but Billy was determined, come life or death,
to, become master of the sport.' Risheroism was
always approved by his master, who would often
pat him on the head, anad call him in broker}Eng-
lish: "Fine boy-brate boy-good boy &amp;c."
Bily remained ;in tis region for several days,
during which time he affected entire contentment.
Oneday the Indians held 'a council, in which it was'
proposed to form avscouting party, for thepurpose
of pInler. Accordingly the time was appointed
o which to..set out on their .,expedition. Billy,
though contrary to-his solicitations, was left be-
hind with the women and children and old mien.-
It was on this occasion that he meditated his es-
cape. The Indians 'left the village early one
morning, and Billy ,the night following. The
Scouting;party 'left for the Huron river, and Billy
for Fortindlyof which he had heard the direc-
tion, and had' been 'assured that it stood upon
Blanchard's'fork of the Auglaize.,
.e evening Billy started upon his lonely and
perilfrsjourney, was dark and rainy. The wilder"f
ness was shrouded in gloom. Wild beasts and wild
men surro'und4ed him; but thesewere no barrier in
hitwayd He had been raised injthe 'woods, aiidt
the yells and" owls of savages and wild' bets-
His trusty rifle was upon his shoulder, his salping
kife hung ahis side and.in 'his 'bosom he barredd
a heart ii gnagious- -above fear and eowadi+e-
Billy followed up 'the bank of the river till day-
light, when, after securing a shelterthe determin-
ed e remain n  t till dark, fearing the Idiaans
F  ' t  'bJ  p r uit  of-.
During this night he was attacked by a gang 'of

"OWNSRJAPss ltr6
wolves, but, he managed to keep them at bay. In
the' bourse of an hour or two after Ihe had' started
fromhis shelter his  eyes caught the, glimpse oft a
light some distance ahead of him in the Woods.
Moving cautiously towards it he discovered'it to
be the caip fire of a small band of Indians" Ex
amining the camp carefully he preceived that; the
party consisted of three savages, either of Whom
'he could have laid dead in his seat,'-bat fighting
them Was out of the~ question." Watching them
for some moments he discovered' that they were
in great glee, 'making merry over their super,
after which they lay down to rest. Billy kept
quiet for some time after the savages elay 'down,
until he imagined they where asleep; when he
again commenced his journey. After traveling
as far up the river as he deemed necessary, he cros-
sed the, stream and proceeded westward hoping
to strike the banks of Blanchard's Fork, and then
the Fort. Continuing his course till morning, he
again sought shelter, and 'laid by till evening, when
he again continued his course, as he supposed to-
wards the Fort. But Billy had missed his course
and instead of making Fort Fiddly, his place of des-
tination, he arrived at the gorge or ravine *here
he met 'his friend Philip Seymour.
Billy's adventure since leaving "the Sandusky
was attended with no danger other than that aris-
ing from the attack of wolves. But with these he
was familiar, and knew well their disposition and
Smode of attack.  The report of- the- ifle which
Philip 'aid 'his companion had heard, wad produced
by Billy, who had dischaiged it at on' of these
creatures.  The' animal had followed him, but
Billy delayed his progress by giving hith the coin-
teite of his rifle.
"After' hilip Seymnr had recoVere4 from- the
~uise in6 'wich the uneipectd meting of
Billy had thrown~ himn, the two friendes *itI Afred,

i
i
d
f


la               nOLens  IuM
retired to 4fhe shelter under the bank, who
entered into a conversation, in which each party
revealedto the other his adventures.:
Billy, said Philp after the former had given
Vhe latter a history of: his adventure, "I am  very
glad to see you once more. I have oftenwon-
dered what. had become of you since the murder, of
our friends= on the Black Fork. Ihad come to the
conaluion that the red devils had taken your scalp
too."'
"Thee here, Mr. Themour, thee here," said Bil-
ly holding out his rifle, "do you think thir, that
this shooting iron will 'perit any of theth  cur-.
thed rathkalth to inthult my dreaming thell in
thacthea ridiculous, manner."
,illy,' replied Philip,"you' 'shooting
iren' is lyuo means. a sure guard against such an
act of .Indigncruelty. Many a brave and fearless
hunter,has fallen a;acrifice tosavage cruelty,nt-.
withstanding his means of defence."
 "tOth:their piAthurth," responded Billy, " they
can't thcalp me 'fore I give them one dothe of
melted.2lead anyhow.'
"Some backbone in this fellow Alf," said Philip,
addressing himself to his companion: "Billy's the
real g4tand no mistake."
"There's none," replied Alfred, "that I have
seen. in.my travels, in whom cprbine such heroism
and sagacity, considering his age. I am  truly.
proud ,f his courage; and shall hope to have ,hhim
as our forest exmpanion, provided he woul be
plea.sed to join =oexpedition."
"That is just what will please him," said Philip.
"Whaty sayouBilly."
"Whell third, thinth yer have axed me a thivil
queiipnI myth-anther yer," said Eilly.   he
Tact 41i 1'  $ ii£  anythhi1 lkthoting i n  - g
Thebb tod eheir thkinth."
"But, BiUy, you must be subject to our admnou

IOE1tta  JJ?
ition?" said Philip, and not expose yourself and
us incautiously."
"I understand yer, thir," said Billy, "but muth
thay yer admonithion ith of no uth in cath of an
attack from ihnakth."
At the mention of the word snakes, Philip's grav-
ity was disturbed-he was, forced to give vent to
a fit of laughter, as his mind wandered back to the
battle of snakes on Clea Fork, and at the recol-
lections of his horrible dream on that eventful
night, he once more muttered a bitter curse on
the snake family, after which he related to Alfred
all the particulars concerning that adventure.
Alfred was much amused. on hearing Phiiip's ac-
count of this affair, and Billy would, every now
and then, as an opportunity presented itself, look
at Philip with one of his rougish smiles, and, ex-
claim: "Cuth the tuna/lct."
Several hours had thus passed away and the lit-
tle party had enjoyed themselves with the most
heartfelt happiness. Weary with conversation
they lay down to rest with their rifles under their
heads. Their sl ahnber was unbroken, and they did
not awake till morning twilight was visible.
As soon as our heroes had partaken of some re-
freshments, they left their shelter and once more
plunged into the forest and continued their course
in a'southernly direction until they came in sight
of an Indian village,* on the banks of a beautiful
streamt of water.  Near the village was a
orchard of fruit trees! of about ten or fifteen years
standing. These trees were  laden  with   fruit.
Upon inspection they found the principle inhabi-
tants to be old men, women and children.

*This village was called Wap-agh-ko-notta and was' the residence of the
Shawnees afte- they were driven from. Piqua, by Gen. Clark.
tiog river, so called by the Indians, from the circumstance of Mr. MeKee;
the i ritish Ji diat agent, driving his swine along the stream as he was fleeing
from the ircursions of Gen Logan in 1786. It is also called Ottawa river.
-Supposed to have been planted by Johtiny Appleseed.

0


"Whst next," said Alfred, as they care, to a halt
a few hundred yards from the Villa ge,: "shall we'
enter this village and rely uppn the mercy of the
savages, or shall we retreat before we are discov-
ered."
"Thee; here Misther AIf," interrupted Billy,
"Thee here, ther'th no going back with thith thild,
untilI thee thum of the thquaw, if nothing elthe:
"Come, come Billy," said Philip, you mus'nt be'
go venturesome you'l get us into a bad fix by being.
too heroic. It won't do, you must be obedient or
we'll never live to see Tilly's face again. You'
know, Billy if you were to get into a snap, I am.
bound to help you out, therefore, you must  not
put our lives in danger by being so desperately
reckless."
"Hist," said Alfred, '"I hear the sound of foot-
steps among the brush, I'm  afraid we're caught
this time."
The young hunters, each sheltered himself be-
hind a tree and' held' himself in readiness foi
defence, but scarcely had they found shelter when
the voice of a lone eanine sentinel,broke the stillness
of'the night, with a good English accentuation of
Bow, wow, wow,."
"Thod blatht the dog," said Billy, and raising
his rife to his shoulder, was about to give the an-
ima a quietus, but Philip prevented him.
"Get ouV-go home you infernal whelp," said
Philip, 'as the animal' continued his howling. But
the dog had never been trained in Noah Webster's
school'of language, aid as the'Dutchman would' say
he could "nix fort1ag," and therefore he howled
'With more vehemence.
"What the deuce shall we do," asked Alfred, if
we retreat the dog will pursue us, 'and bring out
allthe warriors of the village on our track, and if
wd 'stay here we shall be. surrounded and taken

1

" Well our dilemma is none of the pleasantest,
and I am lost to know how to decide," said Philip.
" But it is my opinion-"
At this moment a combination of yells greeted
their ears. The savages had heard the barking,
which they knew to be an indication of danger.
Instantly, they hastened to the, place, where they
found our heroes. Upon discovery, Philip stepped
from behind a tree, and advancing toward an old
Chief, proffered him his han1, which the old man
readily accepted. Alfred and Billy came next,
each in 'turn shaking hands with the old man and
his warriors. The old Chief invited them to the
village, where they spent the evening and the
next day in the most agreeable manner. Some of
the inhabitants could speak the English language
quite fluently.
It was during their stay in this village that Phil-
ip formed the acquaintance of several friendly
Chiefs, one of whom will form the' subject of an
interesting chapter in this narrative.
After spending a day or two with these friendly
Indians, our young heroes again commenced their
adventure, shaping their course in the direct4pi
of the Muskingui. They had learned from  the
old .Chief that a-party of Indians had passed near
their village in that direction, and Philip and Al-
fred determined'to follow them, We shall leave
our; heroes in pursuit of the savages, awd give the
reader a short sketch of' history, relating to :the
village of Wa-pa-kon-et-ta as was made known by
the leading Chief, Black Hof.

.

PIONEER LZUL             1

178

,.
,;,
; :  r- ,


PoYER SLI: 7

CHAPTER XXVI.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF BLACK HOOF THE DISTINGUISFHED
SHA-WA-NOES CHIEF.
"And thus while seated on his couch of green,
T1'he, old man talked of manya scene
Of days gone by. Of many a legend old,
And magic tale."
Black Hoof, the old Indian Chief mentioned in
the last chapter, belonged to the Sha-wan-oes tribe.
He was a warrior of high rank and notoriety; and
was born in Florida, a few years after which, with
a portion of the tribe he removed' to Ohio and
Pennsylvania.   Black Hoof, with others of his
tribe, .were present at Braddock's defeat, near
Pittsburgh, in 1755. He was engaged in all the
wars from that time until the treaty of Greenville
in 1795. He was noted for his cunning, sagacity
and experience; and united with these, was his
fierce and desperate bravery. He was bold and
daring almost to recklessness. Being the invete-
rate' foe' to the white man, his vengence knew
scarcely any limits; and' under his tomahawk and
scalping knife, many a white man had met his eter-
nal fate. Black Hoof maintained that no peace
should be made, nor any negotiations entered into
with the whites, except on condition ;that the lat-
.ter should repass the mountains, and leave the M-
sissippi valley to the sole occupancy of the'fnaf'
tribes. These were his sentimnts, and he ewer

,

all the energies of his mind and body in carrying
then out.
Black Hoof was the orator of his tribe, and was
well versed in the traditions of his people. But
although he was a stern and uncompromising en-
emy of the whites, and although, 'through a long
series of forty years he had nerved his arm in a
hundred bloody battles, yet he became at length
convinced,,that the struggles of his race against
the encroachment of the whites were in vain. A
deep conviction of this truth rested upon his mind
and he communicated his apprehensions to his tribe.
The campaign of General Wayne completely over-
threw all hopes of their success, and he abandon-
ed the project forever. He signed the treaty of
peace at Greenville,and continued a faithful friend
to the whites ever afterward. He died at the ad-
vanced age of 110 years, a short .time previous
to the treaty of 1831.*
In the war of 1812, Tecumseh     and his brother,
the prophet, paid him a visit for the purpose of
enlisting him in their cause,but he per-emptorily
refused them; and although he did not personally
take an active part in the war, yet he exerted a
salutary, influence in favor of the Americans.
Such was Black Hoof, the distinguished Sha-wa-
noes Chief. Philip and his companions were high-
ly entertained and pleased with him; and although
an untutored:savage, they found,;him nevertheless
to be a most graceful and pleasing manet
They had conversed with him, vith freeness and
interest, and' he had revealed to them' a most thril-
ling account of his adventures for forty years past.
*This treaty was made with the senceas of Lewiston,-ald the,Sha-wa-noes
ofWai-ko etotsby' James Gaianer;ad Col. n'Ilvaia.  inriisioners
appoin ted by the, Government. The terms offered to these Indians wer'e lib-
eral, and theyconsentedto be removed beyond the Mississippi. aThen were
removed to te Indian Territory on Kansas river in 133. 'Por Black Hoof,
his remains are on our soil, while his tribA roam over the lands of the far West.
tOol. Johnson describes this man as the most gracefuluIndian he had *vet
"nian.as.,ossessing the most natural and happy faculty of communicating

176


18ZONBR LXIYE.

Black Hoof was the particular friend of Captain
Pipe, they had fought side by side against the
whites up to the treaty of 1795. He had learned
of the burningof Greentown, and the masacre of
the whites on the Black Fork, and expressed a deep
abhorance against the whole proceeding, but laid
the blame of the whole affair upon Col. Greer and
Kratzes.- He had been informed of hi. friend's
(Capt. Pipe) removal to Cleveland, but knew noth-
ing of the circumstance of his daughter's myste-
rious disappearance.
On being told of this affair, he seemed somewhat
perplexed, and deeply affected. He applauded
the galantr-y of Philip and his companions, and.
promised them the protection of his tribe while in
his dominions.
Before dismissing the history of Black Hoof, we
must notice one or two other traits in his character
which in Indian life seem quite remarkable., It is
well known that Indians practice Poligamy; and
are generally in favor of sacrificing the lives of
prisoners at the stake. These two enormities
Black Hoof condemned. He hved 40 years with.
one wife, and never put to death a single prisoner
by fire. ie was not- present at the burning of
Crawford, or perhaps that unfortunate man might
have been spared the pains of such a horrible
death.
With these' considerations concerning the life
and character of this remarkable man, we -are pre-
paz'ed to fully appreciate hissterling integrity.
Philip, and his companions left the old Chief
much entertained, delighted;and refreshed, with
the understanding that'they would return to the
village on their way back from the Muskingum.

CHAPTER XXVII.
PHILP AND IIIS (OMPNTONS RESUME 'TEIIR JOURNEY----MEETINO
WITH INDIANS IN- THE 'BLACK HAND NARROWS -'HEY
MEET A 'COMPANY OF SCOUTS.
The captive's hand hathlaid him low,
He knew not'that his foes were near,  *
In death he sleeps, and life's warm glow
Has fled his bleeding body there.
Philip and his companions, after leaving the
village of Wap-a-konet-ta, shaped their course to-
wards the head waters of the Sciota, and proceed-
ing down, its banks came to a white settlement, in
which they found a commodious. Block House,*
where they were hospitably entertained. They
communicated to the settlers the object of their
adventure in this region, and made enquiry as to
the condition of the country through which they
had to pass on' their way to Zanesville,
It was a cold and wintry morning when our he-
roes left the Block- House, and once .more plunged
into the wild woods. Winter:was now set.in-
dark clouds and dark days.--deep snows, chilling
winds and biting frosts were now to be encounter-
ed.. The prospectbefore them was, to use a mod-
ern' phrase, "a little mixed."  But the bold  .,d
fearless hearts of Philip 'and his-companions, cow-
ered not before the approach of cold or danger.
Their object Was one of humanity, andupon the
success of their adventure depended thehappness
This Block Rouse vas situated in what isrio* called Dee~dre CoItY.

9

176


x.'

of the fearless and generous hearted leader of that
little band. They were enured to hardships, pri-
vations and dangers. Each one was homeless and
friendless, and dependent upon his own exertions
for support and protection. Reader, place your-
self, by imagination, in their condition--in the
heart of a drery wilderness, exposed to the in-
clemency of the weather-rain sleet, snow and
cold; while wild beasts and savage foes roamed
the woods in all directions.
"Billy," said Philip, "['m afraid that camping out
these cold nights will be. hurtful to your health.,
I am almost sorry I did not prevail upon you to
remain in the block house till spring."
"Thirtainly Mr. Themour, you'rmithtaken in yer
man. Bifly Buntly'th not the thap to freethe
ath long ath ther'th a earth thkinin the woodth
with a thprinkling of wool on the outhide."
"True, true, Billy, I didnt think of that. "Bear's
wool is by no means scarce; and with such a, suit,
old 'Boreas' may come blustering and howling
among the' forest trees with breath as! cold as
icicles."
"And who the mithief ith old Mr.'Boreath ? never
hearn tell of thuch an individthual in all my born
dayth' athked Billy, somewhat at a loss to compre-
hend the meaning of the word "Boreas."
The apparent earnestness with which Billy ask-
ed the question, completed with the comic ex-
pression of his countenance, constrained Philip and"
his' companion to indulge in a hearty laugh.
Aware that Philip and Alfred were indulging a laugh
at his expense, Billy 'collected his wits and cooly
replied:.
"Yeth, yeth, now I underthand yer--thod blatht
yer-thith  Boreath,-they thay   ith death on
thnaketh---they can't thand hith Iookth no how."
"Bravo Billy," cried Alfred, "your a trump, by'
gings; Phil, come, own up--iBilly's got you"'

HONtt 1 R 'L11' L

'1*

'"uarters i3illy, quartrs," crid Phil'
surrender
But here he could coinpleghik  htenfedlilsat-
tention was arrested by a4,arty of three 'hdiuA,
some 'distance in the advance cf"'hinig and  y
calling upon his comrades, hid hei  effe e  th ~-
selves behind the'ttrnk of a fallentree.'
In a few moments the' savage'lialt d,am  -
ing themselves upon a rising knoll; commehid
satisfying their appetites with thel, urihon.
From. the voracity With whichthey'detOtired their
food, our he oes supposedd they hdu'tVed" ead
fasted fon ome onsidereble length ofMme:
"'how I should liketo give tha t  y4kiig
th evil' t re  . leaden  il' for thf
"tharpening hih app etite, and aidim  In i h-
digethion," said filly, after efring himt fd a  d-
ment.'
S"Ah, but Billy,' replica Philij' "he til1dt
happen to accept'he dose, or i n 8tli&amp;eyrd
might fail in seding the preseri tion iitoh IS
bread basket at sudlc distance, and iethatab ethe
patient night asatime the offi e of srgeognd
trouble you for the-useofyour &amp;alp'   2
" W 41, thir,"  Ye le'tt  illy, "if f athft dnf  ou
will dothe your man, I'll thwear by tile main tire
moon that I'll thicken mine."'
"Why bless your life: $illy," egli4 Philip,
"yo«  Wouldn't attempts a shot a so 'at     -
t     ehen there is suAh stini hanc of ee
im cas'off 'a failure. ' Why; Billy, it i;'uto
hundred' and flft yards t'  heide 'Thatr i
"ean thoothim-I can thdot he theini     .
theIf at tw4the'thedithance  only d  edth o
yu an4 toodoyo     ph";, 't.t
I"4t ae    ous  i'       ,   1]}' ly ,"tk.~
A"

I


hrtany third, Mr, Pheymojr,"  knoth what I
tha i
"ly'rpied hilip, "I am proud of our cour-
ag  bnn  raveryg, but I must protest against their
ehtioi on this occasion.      think it rather
donbtful case to igterruyt these red devils before
night. Were infor a contest with them cer-
taii, but our attack must he under cover of dark-
ness.".
Ourleroes thus lay secreted for some time con-
versing infr=low tone of voice, during which the
savages seemed to enjoy themselves inthe highest
degree. After finishing their meal they proceeded
ontheir journey, followed by our heroes until they
came to a romantic gorge, known to the early hun-
ters by rt  nameiof the "Black  ind Marrows.,
e te Idias made. their camp for the night.
Thesun had gone down behind a heavy bank of
dar  ouds, as our hunters arrived at these "Nar-
s  They.had traced the Indians into the de-
nt ering to enter until they had reconnoi-
tered, they did not pursue them.
,The Na rows were dark and gloomy, and the
wilderness around them cheerless and forbidding.
,,e yougmen were in the midst of dangers, but
these dangers had no terrors to disarm  them of
their courage.
"Alfred," said chili  "you and Billy remain
here, whle 'make a small circuit to the top of the
liffs. The reddevils are in this gorge, and will
knimke their camp in the most secure position. In
c.~sd4am attackedyou can cometomy distance.
nt u tildiscovered you must remain quiet."
I hi  then proceeded ioiselessly and aitious-
 to le:p of the cliff, and haltingon lthe very

verge, discovered a light beneath him, but- could
discover no signs of the savages themselves.
It was evident to Philip that the, camp fire vas
under his feet, and. reflected the, light on the op-
posite side. The side of the narrows on which
he stood seemed considerably more elevated than
the opposite side. Returning to his companions
he bade them follow him to the opposite bank,
where they discovered the three savages seated
under the shelving of the rocks immediately under
the cliff where Philiphadstood. A bright fire lighted
up the gloomy gorge, and the unsuspecting sava-
ges were making merry over their evening meal,
little dreaming that the eyes of their white foes
were upon them. Their camp was, as Philip .had
expected, in the most inaccessible part of ,the
gorge. They could not approach them at either
end of the narrows without detection, but from
their position on there lower, bank of the narrows,
they had an uninterrupted view of the savages.
"Now's our chance," said Philip. "Billy, single
out your man, and make your aim sure."
"Well, third " whisper'ed Billy, "I will thettle
my account with that devilish ugly looking thavage.
He juth lookth like the thame thap who took me
prithoner on the Black Fork, and I want to thoot
him becauth he juth lookth like him."
"A very good reason Billy,"-said Philip, 4he
shall be your man." Then turning to Alfred- he
said:
"Alf, you single out of that fellow on the left,
and I will take' the other. One, two, three' said
Philip in a whisper and' the report of three rifles
rang out upon the night air of that deep and
gloomy gorge, bringing almost instantaneous death
to three unsuspecting savages within.' But in a
few minutes after the sound of their rifles had died
away in the distant forest, the sound of advancing
footsteps were hear d sonme distaticedin heirherar.

*Tlis is robably ne of the host phnuresque spots in Ohio. CiU1 of en -
ormoi arookF iine thiesdes. 1uso ae ~ ~the .rooks hangover i ia e-
i cu ar forni, ite u idesurface Mf'wktih I iha s"*hav  nthea"* out
M*n    M*o i4 n M end.~ ht *4h~   blMA aqiW tii

EB LIFE

181

I


182

14f'L*

.xdf ooddi   n a! a  loai m  I h l wi ,er P re
sued bydidis -eeach onedf jYoufy-to:a tree and
r~edoda $speed i1y as ppsible.        t
K'4dra:come,'?M aid Billy, "'hey shall have a
Warkw Decepthund'"
fAcardingly each huriter sprang behind the near-
.esbitre and inatoment;or two was ready for ac-
tion: v
The report.of their rifles had died away, and a
ddeprsilence settled around them., Eachlisteed
eag r1y to hearth sound of the footsteps,, which
had alarmed, them, ,biatb all was silent, as the grave.
X'Twas a darkand dreary night. The heavens
where overcast with, clouds and the pattering
rain had commenced falling. A co l  November
Mwd wasstirring .the.tree tops with alow. mur-
ma~ing dound while each drop of rain as it fell to
Aheearth contributed its mite iwawihemusic of "on-
fusede sounds of falling.waters and moaning winds."
Oinrharoes remained in, this position,: so.mefif-
Amten bor twenty min utes  without hearing on sin-
gle sound, save that ;of the pattering.rain; Fnd
jf"s. ? kPiiip was abpu it to call{his- egprn ions to
followbhim down the Cliff,isto the  urwoys where
the dead aq vages-were lying, the sou nde of human
.ypjwprJrne t4 his ears.    1
"What could.tha t 'epQrt of ,fire.nm  nan?"
,me    46 yce in,gopd  glish,opnepr     or
fqurqgein the rer of where our heoes tood.
"Who comes'here," shouted  tiilip as the sond
r'gl   the    p    ' "Who areyougn   whIs
yggripauneg yerpg", 2
J   ai   replied3Philip,  n  t theihead of a
paatytpo1 set, in search of anarading baids of
ETidi e W    M ryixigreIamushand if you
w.yf between   ,dore      a        t

18$

Accordingly the two commanders met each oth-
er under the cover of his own men. .In a few mo-
ments more, and the two parties were together,
and descending the cliff entered the narrows, halt-
ing at the campfire of. the . savages, whom  they
found already dead. "Poor fellows," said Alfred,
"they have eat their last supper, and sung their
last song."
"Not tho poor Mr..Alf, ath you thuppose," said
Billy, "thee thith fellow that I thettled with ith
in good marketable order. Thoundth, Mr. The-
mour, thith ith the thame thkamp that took me
prithoner. Thiod blath me if itaint. I knoth-him
by that thcar on the thide of hith nothe..
The two parties took refuge in the nairoys till
morning when they parted, the one retreing their
steps to -Zanesville, the other, (Philip and his cop.-
panions) towards the Lake, first visiting tiivilla
of Wapaknonetta, for the purpose of otaiwg
another converse ionwith Black Hoof.    $   p
their arrival they found that the old Chief,witih a
sm   party of hi warriors .J  dxleft the vilag l -o
visit Capt. Pipe at his subtern  ii residence i i
Erie County, of whigh Phi1ip lh ingc'meip on
his previous visit. IBack Hoot hade ft itiuc.
tios withhiapeop e to entertain
bly, in caseihey sh  r eturn     4i a sec.

¢   L "
y r  ("t,,; , -

" Z1 .   J. it        1  r{  .
1;j  f    {)

4. 4 'L -t t x # S F   ts t Fy n '' 1''   Y,  ' -  ,                4 ss si Q ;  "
r '                                    if4 1
s4t4 '2.+                                                   e'

.4   }                             '
n                            s
S       r  kt'            ,        r
x   t  r    'a' 'i         _      '     .4


4i 1''

CHAPTER XXVIII.

A BRIEF KSKETCO OF THE MURDERED INDIANS-HEROIC
ALEXANDER( M CONNEL.

ACT OF

The party of Indians mentioned in our last chap-
ter, had been taken prisoners near New Philadl-
phia in Tuscarawas' County; and conveyed to Sen-
eca through 'Zanesville, which was, at this time, a
thrivingblittle village. 'Here the Indians ,were
lodged in prison over night; during 'Which time
some of the settlers paid them a visit. The In-
diansould, to some extent, understand and speak
he glish language.
At first when they were taken, they appeared
alen andrefused 10 enter into conversation; but
raduallythey became more cheerful and communi-
cative.  diIg assures that they would be treated
kindly, and that no one should harm them, they
gave a fall statement of their lives.
It appeas' from this statement that they belong-
ed to'he Delaware tribe, and that one of them
was oneof the five that attacked 'the Seymour cab-
in 'This one called himself John Buckskin,
and stated that after the whites had burned their
villageon the Black Fork, he vowed vengence on
every white man who came into his power; that
hbhad formedthe plot to murder the Seymour
familynd plunder them of their money;; that he
was also in thwbattle at the Copus cabin, where he

4

Was WQ nded in jthe arm with a bullet.,:e also
stated'that his own arm had slain the ', ack Fork
Dutchman,' (meaning.Ruffner,)whiom. he, rep reseu tr
ed as, one of the most powerful men he had eyer
con tended with. This with .some other facts, cozw
netted with the depredations on the Black Fork
settlement, already known to the. reader, weie
made known to the settlers of Zanesville, by this
Indian.
On being asked whether he did not think, he
did wrong in murdering   the  innocent, people
the'ife, he .replied in the negative. He further sta-
ted that under similar circumstances he, would do
so again,' He -then askedd for some tobacco:whichz
being given him, he divided it with his'companions,
and lighting their pipes they sat down, and engag-
ed in smoking and conversing in his own language.
The next morning after their imprisonniet in
Zanesville, a crowd of spectators gathered around
the window on the outside. One.of these asked
them if they, could :sing. They replied'in theaf-
firmative, pnd being requested, to do so, one of the
Indians commenced an Indian songto which he
put a chrisian- air. On being asked where he
learned that tune, he replied from Jesus Christ at
Gnadenhutten. He was asked to sing again, but' he red
fused,stating that white people did not like Indians.
" Yes," replied one of the bystanders" we do
" You lie,'"replied the Indian.
"No I don't," said, st,4 pectator.
"Well, then," said 'the Indian "if you like mie
give me one-fappennyhit."  r"
The spectator refused   ,
'" I knew you lied," responded ItheIndian,
Thisenraged the white man and he resolves ;t
wreak his vengence upon the avages   Accor7
ingly he secured 4he serygces of t~ young y,
and econpanied. te soffeen Gen~ Ah. ie
a bieutenant seigngfo'&amp; thegUgted &amp;atesakr


.fik t6Senea  O  their jurney t gen ca, vhich
was them   risoiihad qaater   thiy . staidalli
iigdht in;Newaykhere the offamed saldier .
dhued' ~nsoe poisonrforkthe purpose of poisoriig
the; Indiais. The physician from  whom  the poi-
so  as  btaied made  thesame' known to the
Lieutenant, buteoncealed the name of the 'pur-
chaser. The officer thentook the more cautioti'to
protect the lives of the Indians until they arrived
at Seneca, where they were discharged some time'
afterwardsa' After their discharge they made their
way back towards 'Goshen, followedwby the'iinsulted
whit: man and his companions who deserted the
Forbe'onthetwext' dayafter the discharge of the
InTinsand e   in pursiiof them when they
me, Bh4ip Seyrnoeu and his party at the naI*oiwQs;S
and o e   iwii the bodieslof the Indiaiis they
tMeingiized them as 4ke same party whjick they had
guardedito -eneca..
'Whileon a visit in the- south-easterr 'part of
InoxCouhty the writer reciv4dothe 'facts -co h
tndd in the conversation pfThe fTdians in Zanes-
-vi li fro ' aMu'elderly gentnemenwho was .one of
thle tspeatator&amp;l at the 'prisoih window. In corrob
eratiba 6fqthe testiionyiof this gentleman respe.
tig these idians, is' thatof another whose 'na n
iastt Aiven  h wlio  comn.ui ,ted a+mo e=e tde
detalof eircumstance coi nneed hi this expe-
dition to the autho 1 of the :iOhioh 9olleptions," part
of which, 'referringt:the epttr e off ee Indians,
ret he. present to.the readerJ t'
"Shortly after Hulls suvrenhder'three Tdians
said to be' unfriendly had arrived at Goshen. $ ne
time' befretea±ri94d,%eeral por ons were mur-
daTrd Orithie MdhiaiilleaP Mdn  eld. Th ekhow-
1 de f thisrcunstanee created  nuadasrn,
aid a . in de  idlle At 'f-Cing 'of c~aiyalry;ullder

4as Were traoe4 to a sM, 1 iqasnd near Goh
NWConnel plunged his horse .    the 'river and
crossed it, at the same time ordering his men to
follow,.but none chose to obey him. He dismoun-
ted, hitched his horse, and with a pistol in each
hand, commenced searching. for. then. He: had
gone but a few steps into the interior of the Island,
when he discovered one of them with his rifle
lying at full length behind a log. He presented
his pistol-=The Indian- jumped to his feet-but
M'Connel disarmed him..vi alsa found the others,
seized their arms, and drove. them before him and
marched,them to the New Philadelphia jail."
The murders committedon the Mohican had ar-
oused the vengeance of the settlers, aid as soon
as they heard that three of the supposed murderers
were lodged in the jail at Philadelphia, a company
of about 40 men organizednear Wooster; marched'
there for the' purpose' of dispatching them without
trial, but' was prevented by the courage of some
two or three citizens..'

'1 4'

!4  4.Y r  i 1   1
44 r

'4i '
°"'

A'

'              i  ?  'j     1,         .
                  . -
1
"                   r

t
t
i                                       ;

,'','
,i i

L

{


1$p,

r t
-
rt,\
'r  8, ..  1

CHAPTER XXIX.

4  A.

BLACK HOOFsVISIT TO cAPr 'IPE-A JO*41UL0 MEE N --I3iA -
VER, THE YQtJN :DElAW REE WSEIORE" VOLUNTEERS 3I8
SERVICES IN THE RECOVERY OR ILLA PIPE- Bi- '
GRAPHICAL ABETCH OF BRAVER.
An aged Chiaftain fm. hisi rllage strayed '.
A friend y yisit to his frie d he paid=
Tjo talk ,ot~ her arou .d whose being. dung ;
Deep my stery. None, kew front Whence she sp rung,,
$n'. him-whomi she called father dear,
d him  ho paid the visit m his cave so drear.Y
As already stated in thepreceding chater,
Philip had informed Black Hoof' of the abduction
of Captain Pipe's daughter, and also of his present
resdenee. He had given him      this information,
with the ,ull assurance of meeting with the Cap-
in approval, as he heard him      express his
determination of hiding' council with    Black
* Hoof if in his
The next day fa per Phil 'had left the village
of Wa-pa-kon-etta =la k 1o~fwcalled around him
several of his mostat ie  Addaring young war-
riors, and commun-t         h    his intention of
starting out on an ysi        o visit his friend;
and after makingations as necessary
for the adventure, h sat out up on his journey, arri-
ving at the grotto the next day, a little after night-
fall. Before entering the cavgrn, he gave ord.ra
to his men to reconnoiter thecounty around, in
rder to asertati Tahere were any 5pi0  in the

r
"      ,        R
y                r

r                 1,        .
'
t 'f 1
,7.  '          ,.
_ ,}              --
.,    _:yt                     _ ,
., j ..

+
'
i
'                               F      x

.                                 }
Ci .
-                          i
.    '       i          .,      a  ,i                 t  Ci

woodsJa nd on being s  red that the " ea.tpug
cea," heandhis little party entered. the ce,
wlieh had been well known to hifobmany ye r .
He found,:to his no small astonishmin an  di
poiutient, that the cave waunocpi-aptai
Pipewa gone. No soud ws.heard to break te
deep and gloomy silquc within its. sombre walls.
ge called loud, but wis onlyanwered by the
echo of his own voice. This i sjange sid he;
there is a mystery cnncted with this affair. We
have been deceisedby the white warrior, and I
tBut before: he, had niched his sentence the
noise of advancin  footsteps were heard at the
mouhof the cavern,and theWnextomoment.two
udiwmschiefs entered the cave, where they were
hailed by Blackioof and hisoCompanyr
Thereader has, no doubt anticipated oneof those
to be Capt. Pipe.- The Captain had takeit intQ his
head to -visit Fort seneca, military pot built n
thelate warwhich stood a few miles north of the
present sit of Tiffin. Pipe's:object in visiting
this stekade wa ,to. secure the.iid of so a young
andtactive hdianwarriors, friendly to the 4peri-
cancauseto asist him and young $eymourin, re-
ceearig his tdaughten; and, bwhiheealyng
DelAware warrior, namedea     introyg
to him by Qen. IHrrison I . p9's. intimate friend
Pipe soon made known torBeaver the object of
hi  visit, and the young Qhie freely  volun-
teered hieervices to. the;old Chieftain, a insa
fewdays aferward   ccoinpanied him to his re i
de ce i the nave, where t   found the n gd
Black oof and, i        b   fds
Ouencring the cay, ipe asat first    little
u praised onseeing it in the posssionoa band
of ndian  het wasmuch played ., io1.f    g
oneof them t be his triedand- cher ohg fe
lag.k H,   bgrwQfried gre eted    h b4.2r

PP


flVUZI ZXIR

wih t4a w#rndtand    edi~penuliar to' he "YI
diA character and after they had thus passed
trhfgh:their c   customary sahutations the two old
warrors  entered'into a 'conversation 'respecting
'The nifssilidadian Jmaiden.. Black Hoof ratedd
hisifriend fti&amp;,adventure of Philip up to' the
ti ie Hof hisft visit tohis village, while the Capt-
nam made known to bi   all the particulats'of his
hi story upd 'ote present timte.
When tkey had finished heir conversation the
two old meninleft"the paityand etired'somedis-
tance into the woods, and after carefully examining
t-e forest around them and'finding that no human
eyes wireUpon them, they sat down upon fallen
tree, vere'heyentered into a private converation.
fterCnering for some time, thetwoChiefs ex-
cavated the:rth' near theroot' oft a huge bak'in
which heyi depoited 'a malI tin,' box and after
filling in the earth' and covering the. spot with
'Iaves, they returned to the cave. Afterre-
xnaining 'with the _Captain 'over night,' Black Hoof
'adhis warriorsreturined totheirvillge.
attain' Pipe randycung Beaver were, now' alone
in'A e cave, eoi cocting imeasures for finding " ut
the destigatio",of, Lilly. "As this young" Chief
is to-act a prolkinent 'part in a subsequent'oh pter,
' hall take the' iertyof introducing a'noteef
Thclsafa&amp;ter to the 'eaderrin connectio'"with this
Delawarevun  eaera eaare wrior, in per-
45n,-ha was' hana= m,' andi 'prepossessin.' is full
* j ky  g'sh ad'  r ing In'rstature he
was' about fve feetttYinches, rbust aidithle-
i    'i countenancieated-abold yet ,gee r-
het.    Wsth pie ofhinationesteem-
" ed s eid nd honored 'by all who knewhim.
's:  l Vrose a d eeeit &amp;nd trekhery;=nd, for
' a   daring'in the hodurof.dangep his
*  "hai   i. th%'hlrofdist~s~ au his intdy

9O

to *ny oondence 'eposed in 'him he had no  upo
iors. -Resides'this, yoinmg.Beaver was in modern
parlane 'the lion of his tribe, andany a dark
eyedmiaiden turned her' eyes towards hisperson.
In sh 4'the qualities of both his heart and head
'were oa 'more than ordinary -excellence; for nature
had bestowed u4pon him lineaments of gradefulnes
and Indian beauty. His motions were those of
harmony, and his actions ',unrestrained 4and- easy.
Such is but a meager desciiption of the' 'admirable
qualities of thiseyoung  warrior.
It may not he out of place hereto relate an iuci-
dent in the lifer of B eav r'which should be known
and read by all coming generations-,as a memorial
of hisunimpeachable integrity and gotdsfeeling
towards his friends.
During the war of 1812, the friendly Indian ;
particularly 'the Delawa es, Sha-wa-noes andSe
cas,, were'"invited to join the American'cause; and
quite a number, belonging to. these tribes accepted
the offer; amongthis number was' Beaver, whogas
'we have said, was introdue d- to Captain Pipe at
Seneca. ' youngg Beaver's father and General iar-
'rison had been upon terms of unbrokeafriendship.
The father had been put to' death, like many oth-
ers for practicing' sorcery, and the son then ten
years'of:age, fell underthe ?proteetibn. of.arIson.
For thiskindness the  on entertained the nost' -
alte'drespect towarahis ldenefactor.
Among the'numbiers who alsoenlisted updarAthe
American flag eas a awretch,' who had.insinuated
himself amongthemn  ith hefltention of assas4-
nathg   etheGenerdi..This fallow'a dame w s Blue
*Jacketgant belonged togthe Shawenee tribe. ie.
awas' otthennted B1e 'JaoksgjhowiyerrW ign-
ed the.treatyof peace  gt D e-entiiea-
a'1he  idsonal appearano rnd'digpesitio6 offl4e
'Jackret *ees repulsivead  disgusti~gs' those
of B9aewe 'e ataetiv~ aid pleaigtiekd


bmerlyresided inWa-pak netta, which he had
'left Tfor some considerable time, returaing  few
daysabfore the Warriorsset out-for theSatof
tar. Hetold the Chiefs that he had been outhan,
ting along tihe waters'of the Wabash, and that le
wished tojoin the army about to start for Seneca.
Not doubting his honesty of-intention, his name
was eeioiled among the number of warriors. Up-
on their arkivalat MeArthur's Block House (which
was"'a fortif e-ation built in the late war on the Scio-
ta river, on Hull's .road, in HardinCounty)they
halted and' encamped. for the purpose o'f receiving
provisions from.the Deputy Indian Agent, Col."
lMoPherson, whoresided there.
Blue Jackethad made a doifident of  a young
warrior, who also was warmly attached' to Beaver.
This_ arrior vas of:the same tribe to which .Blue
Ja ket belonged. Calling hiur aside, he communi-
cated to his friend his intention to .murder General
Ikrrison'on his arrival at Fort Seneca,. and' re-
que ted him to assist him. His Afriend refused, and
endeavoredIto dissuade him from so base an .,act.
But Blue Jhteket declared'that he would assassin.te
the 'Generalifhe knew' that afterwards he would
be "Out'pto pieces not bigger than his thumb
naild " '
apply for General Harrison, the confident off
Blue Jacket was also a tried friend of Beaver's,
There are no peopleon earth more faithful in
keeping seretseethan the xIdians,' hut each warrior
h   adfriendtb whom he w ll reveal all his-secrets.
BlueJacket's confident sought his friend Beaver,
'and oommunicatedrt he 'iiitentions ofhi friedto
him, at the same time enjoiningseercyupopn im.
This intelligencelaced Beaver in an enbarrs-
sing situation; 'foe shbuld'he disclosew hatahe had
hed;heould' b~tay his friend, which'wa :too
repagnantatl is feelings 'to be end d  an he
deterkiia 'he would notfviolate-kis word.~ O

th. otber hanid he coi1d nt endure the thoughts of
seeing his 'father'slfriend, ad :his :own patn,
basely ,murdered whenin hi* pWerto preventt it.
Bthow t6 apprise him of-his danger wilhouit sac-
rifleing his Wrd he' could not tell. For thenf rst
time'in his life Beaver'was placed in a seem nly
inextricable dilemma'. For some time- he satin Ai-
lent meditation; -he conned the matter over and
over in his mind. While 'he thus'sat in hesitation,
,the notorious assassin came into the Deleware
camp. The eyes of Beaver fell upon him, as he
came, staggering with intoxication, and breathing
vengeance upon Col.\hMcPherson, who had just
turned him out of his house for disorderly conduct.
The sight of the traitor roused the indignation of
Beaver, and arising from his seat he advanced to-
wards him.. His keen black eye was full of fire-
his bosom heaved with wild emotions, and with,.a
.firm and unfaltering v ice 'he thus addressed him:
"You must be a great warrior-you will not on-
ly kill the white man for treating you as you de-
serve, but you 'will also murder our fagjher, the
American Chiefan bring  iee     d mischief
upon us allsbuth,  halld i ei      l serve
you ad oguda ma   "o'ndod        yg he rais-
ed his' hptcet, 'andith eurion   b    he laid
the culprit dead a feett' Thatrninentesome
of his tribe Apresent,rhidd
"There, take him to the camp of his tribe, and
tell them who it was that did the deed."
The Sha-wa-noes applauded the conduct of Bea-
ver, and rejoiced at their happy escape from the
ignominy into which the murder of the General
would have thrown them.
On their arrival at Seneca, the principle war
Chief of the Sha-wa-noes, requested permission to
sleep at the door of the General's Marquee, which
he did until 'the embarkation of -the troops. This
was done to prove his fidelity to the American ane.


41 tg greg4 tvag whic was he1hi Ot eg
vi1 in 185, IenaerCass, one qf tie ConnissionY
ers related th wh alg of the transactiogto the as.
seiabledd.chiefs andafter thanking .eaver, in the
nameQf the United States, for having saved the
life of their general, he caused a handsome presr
ent (out of the goods which were sent for the pur-
pose of the treaty) to be made him.

CHAPTER XXX.

PHILIP AND HIS COMPANIONS ARE INTROI)UOED TO BLtUt JAORET4
BLUE JACKET PROPOSES TO GIVE '-T##M AN EBIBr ON OF
INDIAN SPORTS-THEY RECEIVE AN INVITA4 ON TO PLOY
A GAME OF "FOOT BALL-BILLY AEOOPTED TH1
INVTATION-AN EXCITING GAME--1ttI1 WINS
THE PRIZE--Hi5 DISPOSAL OF .
"On grassy banks, the men and maidens played,
Young warriors there, they gallantri displayed;
The voice of joy and mirth rose high im apr,
As 'men and maidens on the gras lay there."
As already stated, Phill O'his    x     ii at _
village of Wapko    t4
a number of his youngarenh4efto            resi-
dtence of C  is  Pixe: Te
to pnuadelhito remai"          th"i
Chief returned:.  Bw      eni    dfThll jiever
prevailed uponhito1 reifia dne&amp;       n
He celebrated Blue Jacket,     r oMo    e
Shawanoes in the battle of784,had  jYt r    d
to the village the morrBicg t   a
left foripfcavern.      e, too,a      rowd
but he seen e.full of life 'and vigor.
Philip and his comrades were 19rod c   q
and Phiip mae know     his    e
roes an exhibition of some Indian sports. A purs

P

,

4                           '
t                     s


PIONEER LIFE:

of valuables was soon gathered up, and all the vil-
lagers were ready for the game.
The village was situated in a beautiful location
and the country around was truly delightful. They
were soon upon the lawn, and separated into tw~o
parties, one consisting of the women, and the men.
Our heroes were requested to perticipate in the
sport, but they politely declined, with the exceP'
tion. of Billy, who was anxious to engage in the
game, which was to be a game of 'foot ball."
The Indian boys were much rejoiced in, having
Billy for their companion in the game, and. Billy
was determined on distinguishing himself as a mas-
ter 1andat the:sport.
At thismga e the men were to play against the-
women,and the'rules by which they were to be
governed;were as follows: The men were not to
touch the bal withstheirshands, on pen alty of loos-
ing the game; but the women were allowed to pick
it up, run withit, and throw it as far as they could;
but in so doing the men were permitted to catch
the-women shakethem, and, even throw them
downh order'to extricate the ball 'from them;
but  tI to touch it only with their feet.
At t     oost et remityof'the play ground,
Staes were driven in the earth, and when the ball
wa  beyond either of these stakes the
game wa   oed     hen all were ready the Chief
too h    position between the two parties, and
throwing the ball into the air, retired and the con-
test  eo nni d  Billy plunged into the midst
th de agity of a cat; although somewhat
*u  M ,rhe was remarkably nimble-
The'Indians were'evidently much pleased with
h i ole 'rty,  d sought every opportunity to ex-
~es ii4pirobiedn of his heroism. The con-
test waged warmly,,and men and women were seen
4t;i3ig -ups upon the lawns It was aus-
i~    o'~  hedoek te ba e the rough ad   d

196

r
r '

PIONEER LIFE.

tumbling of the contending parties. -Thecontest
lasted for more than an hour, which swed that
the parties were well matched. At one period of
the game, the ball was caught bya young .Indian
squaw; Billy was close behind her side; she at-
tempted to run, he followed and immediately she
was in his arms. A scuffle ensuedwhich lasted for
a few moments. The young squaw. vas hiseqital
in strength, and Billy found his-match. At length
she succeeded in prostrating her antagonist. T1ie
women sent up a shout of triumph. Quick as
lightning Billy was again up 9n his feet, and, bing
.chagrined at -hearing his female antagonistso
highly applauded, and knowing that Philp aud
Alfred would.never cease tormentinghirm over his
defeat, he again commenced the strugglesummon-
ing all his strength, he made one deperateefQrt,
and the young squaw lay sprawling upon gtl e grpund.
Her fall was somewhat hrd, nd a, relied   the
ground she dropped .the ball, whereupon1' iBilly
gave it a kick with his foot, sending it some;dis-
tance in advance of him. In amomentit  as in
the hands of a herculean' squaw,rho on recti4g
it commenced running towards the.stake followed
by Billy and his antagonist with several o  s.
Billy succeeded in ovrtL ing Eer and .a.  g
a hold of her garment,h eld on.being 4iaggpd  e
distance by her with the force of a locomotive.
Billy finding that -she was nearing the stake,
caught her by the ankle, and she   fell just as
a party of males and females advanced upon them.
In falling she dropped the ball, and the next instant
a kick from Billy's foot sent it whirling with the
rapidity of a bullet past the stake.
The victory was won, and the infant backwoods-
man, Bunty-Billy was the victor. A shout of ex-
ultation rent the air, and old and young crowded
around the young man. Every one was anxious to
take him by the hand. The eyes of the Indians

A97


PIONEER LIFE.

were rivitea upon him; ashe stood there, the en-
viga hero of the game.. The young squaw with
whom he had the severest struggle, had slyly crept
by hiside, and extending her handsome Indian
countenance, thus addressed him:
"You brave boy-make good warrior-great
Chief--fine man for good squaw--much happy have
you stay here."
"Thood Jike to do. tho, Mitheth Inthun," said
Billy, "but pon my thoul, I cant thith time. I
muth help my friend Mr. Themour to hunt hith
thquaw."
As soon as the game had closed, the Chief who
bad held the prize, commanded the parties to be
seated, after which he presented the prize to Billy
who tipon receiving it, bowed as. gracefully as he
'knew how, at the same time thanking the Chief
for the valuables.
"Ith thith mine?" said Billy.'.
"Yei sir." said the Chief emphatically.
"el then," said Billy, "I can dithpothe of it
ath I pleathe:"
The Chief answered in the affirmative. Where-.
upon Billy apportioned the prize to the "Ladieth,"
(giving tlie young squaw.the entire half, and an equal
4ka re to 4he rest. The disposition was highly ap-
piaud dby the men, who on beholding Billy's gen-
rsity seitup an other shout of acclamation.

CHAPTER XXXL
PHILIP AND HIS COMPANIONS ARRIVE AT THE CAVE OF CAPTAIN
PIPE-NO NEWS OF LILLY-PHILIP DISAPPOINTED-ALFRED
ENCOURAGES HIM-PHILIP RELATES THE ADV 1NTURE
WITHI THE INDIANS IN THE NARROWS-PHILIP'8.
DREAM--BEAVER INTRODUCED TO PHILIP.
"With heart felt grief, the Chiefiain
Satwithin his cave. No tidings cane
Of her, for whom he wept, and sighed."
The morning after the game of football, mention-
ed in our-last chapter, our trio-of young backswood-
men left the village and continued their journey
towards the cave of Captain Pipe, where they arri-
ved in safety in a few days.
The old Chief was the sole occupant of the Cav-
ern, when our heroes entered,'and was reclining
upon some skins of wild animals, absorbed in deep
meditation.
"Good evening Captain Pipe," exclaimed each of
the two young men, who advancing towards himin
turn, renewed their friendship by a hearty shake
of the hand.
"And who is that you . bring along with you ?"
asked the Captain.
"This sir," said Philip, "is an orphan boy named
William Buntly, but whom we call "Buaty .glly."
His residence was on the BlackForkwhere he
lived with martin Ruffner, to    hewas bound.
But after 'the murder of his master, he was taken
prisonerby the murderers. 13uV lie has eff fled

198


20oNERR LIP2

his escape, the particulars of which he will relate
to you himself.
"Ah, indeed," replied the Captain, "and is this'
"Bunty Billy," of whom you spoke to me on a pre.
vious occasion?"
"Yes sir," said Philip, "and a more manly heart
never beat in a man's bosom than his: He bears
himself so much above his years. Fear or coward-
ice form no yart of his composition. But we. will
talk over this matter again. Any 'news concern-
ing Lilly?"
'2Vne, nove,' replied the old man pensively, nor
need L, I presume, ask you for any?"
Philip sighed heavily, repeating the Chieftain's
answer: "None, none." Then pausing, while tears
started in his eyes, a deep and solemn silence, for
a few moments reigied in that subterranean recess.
" gone, none," repeated the young man, after a
fe ,,nment's pause. Then turning to Alfred, who
.s  yPAhisig with the afflictedChieftain and his
sorrwfoulstricken companion, he said:
'.Alfred I am, indeed, melancholy. As Igaze
uponthegloomy walls of this cavern, thoughts of
o h. d ays rise fresh in my memory. What a.
h cered   cease is human life,- how full,.of sor-
row.-and disappointments. In one' moment our
4h7t7 ae     yant withppeand animation, in
$ Y   " &amp;ark pal of disappointment is thrown
over o  degds1 ogs an,.rightest articipatio ,s
cn       e'es misable existence. There aree, fw in-
deed, who have reached' the age oC nih d,Y or,
even launched their bark on yputh's sunny Kea aof
lifewho, in 'etrds ectin gthe past, cannot dwell
upn omersceneof melancholyy or pl  ur   'Life
s inde    eeed, rpletewith circimstaices, frin which
spring'"elfgraif"itationunrelnting comuriin
ort4 e +trnget and ;most n1a6holfysymipathiies.
Rhifact E hae raliMio 4'id ae 'drink'frm

affictions bitter cup. Skies that were brightand
dl6undless are now dark and cheerless. I{opesthat
were once strong and promising are nowweak ahd
forbiding  My whole being is shrouddqi5
and' I feel as though death only can befriend}pe."
"Philip," interrupted his companion: "lieisin
deed a checkered scene; and we aie the childpi
of circumstance' but it has two sides the birIghtdi
sunny, and the dark and dreary. Now ! hold tt
the darkness which clouds our pathway, in most
cases is merely imaginary; and permitting 'or
mind to indulge in unpleasant reflections, wein-
crease our gloom and dispondency.'. T iereisaone
attribute of the human mind, which, when phbpriky
exercised, will dispel the darkest cloud th at ever
hung across' life's pathway. This atfibu~eis
Hope. There is, perhaps, no one noW lii ,who
cannot hope. The productionsof the   uipr's
chisel and painter's pencil, may no1de'nsth e
dust; the wreath which' deks'the brow off'te 5A
chanted bard, or commanding monarch, ial1witr;
the throne of the congiier  may be odedgl ed
and scattered to theI.earth,-and his' p ver iid
grandeur no longer be hyimned by hi}rat Ldiit
minstrels; but the fond aspirations of -thpehuian
heart, pouring through the eh.nnel of hof, Eft
never die. We may be disappointed in our"
tations in life, but hopelooks 'nto thie fine; and~
opens up,on the other side ;f death, skieaA h
are eternally cloudless.' 'T'his characeitic ie he
human heart is our solace through ii   , nd oir
comfort i death-it is inscribed in our hears  d
written 0n the pillars of heaven, and ree ,ted . n
to earth."
thilip i  gazigin' he face o ig zp9ion,
a eeiedt. t, sr
as..he bre4ha.  fqrtk ,thosesoul   w
an  ho       -im agi  ,dd  j' in  V,,t  n
S~a aon. .eds burning eloq.ene

2D1

200

NONE1   LIFE,


',2

K:  hi ''elancholyc omp anion, and, he
ted-Ai rour words are encouraging, and I can,
iope-.-thoughIcn
gh it be against hope."
e = hereg, gentlemen," said Billy, "there ih
ihoot ngto be done ath el ath hoping in
he     i   t  not going o bring Lilly
n43I' r thwarting ath thoon ath pothible
dhethcaut after her."
e're dome backbone in this fellow, Captain,'
Ired.
",, 'relied the.Chieftain, "it would not re-
.h t     orime fonndian:to discover t  in
ex ianceand .iery'eyes. I see h  as im-
S  iit  f his master,:the heroicRuffner."
R~uffer," laid Philip, as the recollection
zi 4benrder- rose fresh in his memory,
ya   t proud satisfetion of knowing
±. of  - tb  urderers of his, master met his
14 rV _P1p related the adventure with
N arrows to the Captain       ivino
0 ef°'a Iesription  of  his  person.'
i   othe person of the one who fell
L~fr~n ~iip's re,'satisfied othe Captain
9ez fr the Greentown Indians, whom
en, :but on account  is lowness of
b~~ b*~zg wien. to' ntoxication atnd' its
,hd formed no intimate acquain-
Was uph leased to know thatan"
crblwretches had me hijust
hh  4 h le  t eth  co f  th e  m o  th  o f th e
Vith1 !1,drrih of y  t
Se fr         d+   ,-

'I

PtoNE  LIFK              0
"Why Billy," said Philip, "you seem to talk with
a great deal of confidence. You must' certainly be
under the influence of inspiration in thigh prediction.
Well, to confess the truth, I should be quite happy.
to see, the fulfillment of your phrohecy."  , "
" Well, third " said Billy, "I will tell you why
am thertain of thith.'. Once when Johnny  ppleR
seed came to our cabin on 'the B lack FYorklheput
hith handth upon niy. head and ,prayed ifor the
thpirit to reth upon me, that I might prothipsin
all my undertakingth ; and thinth that time I have
met with good thucceth/ and, I am thure I thaW i'm
thith inthance"
"May the Great Spirit grant it," said theold"
man solemnly.                            a
It was drawing near' the hour of midnight,'asour
little party lay 'down'to' rest. During the night
Philip was:aroused from his slumber by ithe pierr
cing 'shriek of a-feniale voice at the entrance Qf the
cavern. He sprang to his feet, seized his rfle;lu
bounded to the outside, and found that grey ng9r p
ing was dawniuig in the east, but could not dicovae.Y
from whence the sound proceeded. Recurij.gg
side he found the Capftain astir, to whm  e com
municated the-cause of his leayingth ecavet
"Ah ! said the Captain, that sound is f  19
the cavern, ever since the murderr of . his4 frA
my beautiful daughter."    '
"Merciful Heavens !" cried Philip ina parox 4
of hrenzy "and is it possible that Lilly is :uta=v
ed among the dead?. Tell me Captain-tell  e
beseech you in the name of my murderecl Mjewel the
natnes of ier assassins, and I  ill feawtle  o
the ends of the earth to avenge her death  'Qoh i,
God,",continuedhe,"I am "no  a loneiy I.headta r'
kensgrangr, without friends ,and home, orin"_
kindred spirit to love and be love4, I4isyigoner
Oh! it is hard to leave this 'brigfl ti d beaitifsv
world, *gd embark ipuigda n&amp;j~it~t


PIONEER LIFE.

204             Plo i Ltt,
hat the mischief are yott. preaching about,")
ineroated. Bill   who was awakened 'by the
0armenag voice of the dreamingahluip. "I thay
Mr. Themdur" continued he, at the same time
giving his fiend a shake,  "what the deuthe hath
got info ypuaedreaming thell."
'nuhi d driedPhilip. rubbing his eyes, "I've
had noherinfertial dream, that's ,all."
ell, then " said Billy, "you need'nt make tho
oh  futhwabout it,'tho 'ath to dithturb other fokth
£rohliebping-thod blathsyer."
"Wgll Billy,'' said. Philip, "I must beg your
pard=a for,. thus disturbing, you . this time, and
proi ise amends in the future."
'Niff theid," replied- Billy, "and I hope y'er
dreamtk will not be turned' to a Divine reality, ath
Johnny Apiletheed uthed toAthay. Ith my opin-
ion, Thir, that the day ith near at hand, when your
hepth Will be loth "in thight.
During thiseonversation, Alfred, who was lying
som=di toned in the rear of Billy  as aroused
fro nhi  lnber- alsoto whom the cause of the
eodin  iactioinwasmnAedekno.'.Phiip arose and
stepped toithe entrance of le cave, and on looking
out discovded that it was really morning. On ire-
tuteiighe found;the Captain astir also. He had
lodged by himself in another apartment  of the
c e rn:'Philip related his dreamto hih, which
sektiedto affect hi mind to'some considerable
extent.              oePii
Afterpatking of sone refreshments, Philip
an  te old Ohief left the cavern and proceeded
soien. distance into the forest, and halting at the
sax  tree phere he aid .Black Hoof had deposited
thy    y1o 'h a 4kd hilpif he 'cotil'~rroie t
~ 9.d :        teiiafti r4 .vodri-e this
iut~~rativfta ears e          Philipreplid

this locality ; as perhaps this place may afford you
some material advantage hereafter."
Philip stood for some moments  gazing upon tlhe
surrounding woods, wondering in his mind what
this, singular adventure ,meant.' His curiosity was
excited,,and he asked its meaning.
"Sir,'' said the Captain, "the explanations can-
:not now be given. You shall,, know all hereafter,
should your life 'and that of' my daughter's be
spared. There are none othersnow living, except
a particular friend of mine, (who is a noted Chief)
who knows the object I have in view in 'thus'brih -
in you on this spot.'
'After thus marking this location inhisnemory,
Philip and the chieftain returned to -the cave,
where he andthis -compahions remairned- for several
days, waiting the arrival of young Beaver, spoken
of in the foregding chapter-- eaver'made hIp-
pearance in a few daysas iroduced t   1 philip
and his companions; and then' proceed to jive
the Captain ahistorytof hisadventure.

f  "A

.

}
i     'y.    Y
i              1
'                       .4
_
n                         r

'A 5

IA

i1

205


"

I

SI

'1

CHAPTER XXXIL
'V  sey   W TaR H E:As--BATTI.E WITH INDIANS---
N            PIP OFI'   VISITS GEN. I'ARUISON-ANOTHERP
ADVRNTO E-P IP AND 11$ Pt  TAEEN PRISON-
AEa-LILLY FOUNn.
Sharp was teconfic4,-but.m vain
They Strove again - superior men.
During the periodwhi    ha    apsed between
th   randseco\nd visitwtte cavern, Beaver
: .% =u 3n der':is command a small body off
choice young warriors; and pro eeded' with all
possible haste to the Wabash; and about the mid'
die of Dedember reached the headwaters, just in
time to join Col. Canpbellhs detachment, sent out-
against the Miami Indians  On reaching one' of
theirvillpges they commenced an attack upon
them, killing sonie eight or ten warribrsa and taking
quteanumber of prisoners-men womanand
children ;tbey then set fire to the village and en-
cara e4 ademile therefrom.'
Little before the dawn of day, they were at-
tacked by th e} exasperated savages, with the m,- tt
daring bravery and horrible yells. The battle
wagedwarmlyffor somea .iiutes, but the ,avages
wee dispersed with the loss,;of about eight or ten
of the AAmericans, andfomethirty or: forty Indians.
The prisoners were secured and carried to head
quattert:
Ak ;cony rsioa with one of theme in'forme
BeaOe4r Athet he  Na digid-r y £f_1 _#eUte

rroniihru.             211
a thet 'after tl0e burnkingof theitinvige,"h&amp;in
British forces and fight agingt' th'Aierie .
Beaver then made iiqinryof hinPening    p
.e 0aiahekew hiniwellde4 haben at his
cabin several'times. IL&amp;further stated}th t4 1Ihe
Captain"\was a tiaifor to histibe, and to his, dace -
that. his treason was punished bg Jelosdo    s
daughter, whom lie loved with the mQst passiorimte
Ibndness." r
This was the, information which Beaver wanted,
,nd he.pressed-the question as-towhere shehad
been taken.  .The prisoner info ed h  thtshe
was in#the handsof gome distinigished white Chief,
at Malden.   sBeaver pressed the question ks it6'he
person or persons who had Stolen The naiden 1t
he lrQfessed ignorance as to who 2he    dminals
LJaving received his information, young Bea
and }his rangers set out for the residere-of faptah't
Pipe,where he arrived a e y f ewdays  after the
returnof'Seymour and his companionsa s desi'
in outla'stchapter.
'As obys Beaver eommunicated this iitelligdoe
to the Ca.t.i, he returnedth saniM,         in
he had left at Harrison's' head q
soughtan intevieW With farrisonid.'if6Af$ d
hi1 of1his inteuti6u to fdimiinindeyeit i
comanyand    .ke  hge of tiefithimnself
American General   riiolednthe  vAi"t &amp;
pitmi    hhndhe fiA  choieofhisi{i3if     ut
Bea'er dtineddthe offer of 'hirgen       idi
alledging.that.he ,had&amp;  1uld  t 'fiftdhW&amp;hi.
paty en'itely of his own-s aeet  oi      a
fortaihtJeaver's;dianrangerswrraa         d
eqgylip4d 'is3ompaeydconsitedM.ab ,t fif
youngmentalraeceful    rdoedageodx;&amp;te
umantiange Piliphd also    4  deiAi&amp;
Agpg   4 g (W oniaand dioitu   efoethbe  st


rl~ch he, ~ 4acd-"inder f4 ,e  ro etouofr ; a pt nIl
-T '' h r'ei1  ,} ; , 'hi ; Philip .hd  heard   oneerim
Yt~ino snce h  h~deard ofer 'Yhdrcion h
feli an meii~  f ' i  excess,  r  Hii'} s enrti~yp re being waX1s A  a' re-
3'      nL xhArt}",beat wihrn!e mo"tiq , Hop
6ff '5lece so  '   ttheno   ri ling ass i  fhips mnd
for he knew that strong armls ,and: bold h earts were
en1i, TVd  .inh'i cue. *" f Inj the young antd. hri
,. ^/vofraF i /'{id r3 F/  ,,i  1terei o tdaringw-a ros, b .rpoed  unlim it
*ed,' trfidfeice, an=dswith: his owvn btave  and . 'da~int-
JegeIpiin , Alfred \arid.13iy,  felt 'alm ost
cofd    hatl"the.:cs.,e co'-Lillyj =was .certain. :f et
there  Vieother . conlsid erations which aL ties
preydieaviIy= uponhis nd=Hritegit    ,n
purity ,werebyn all-idoubt; but then she was in.
the C hands of rtrde t:-sw'a es;or npnciled ~Vite
men.l ~Bfut hen aaiae niwthat the praers
tcf J'o t &amp;yppleseed, whom h feesteemerd a man of
~Go~ha 4een f~'~d, up t&amp;, heaven in her behaf;
and li who hears ie young rayen's cry; .and
ov~ theyoung tnaidenthough . in a land of
Ol   i~nes.r1sa
'~  i  int r = ors is and'"eme}t
,.   ,errx  'som  ayf , ;qast1 te weath (r rhad
' ,yyxr  I v ry-tom  .ie'' / ng  forbi44ing
hiip      i~ru~   hi~h~p~i           nt~
{t F"r  d 34 ipYahio'    ' F rm  a"kt  i "for "a ..a  7
' ..

4 r  x Er."yL
h"h _{' tfrr.4 t ~- 1 .   sa  .  ? t  "ti - h  i t w i  e  '  3!Y   ed,=i ~ 4  t   i) -     hfla
yourrihci4'atio sWha  ix}"   4 t e&amp; j d'?
your  1l t h iVin"  _ad ,Biy, ~ y   t nl   t(al° 'ava',  ith
thort. K Ifsybu do1t thon  sTha t   f .r thth v ,rl1; r
I'll tart nithall'
thheier 6s  Fyte'n
thty gm   ilyBnl evr playd ."
h"etdig h gode  f1oie4  o    1h~h ~~~~
inoth  il  oos  r  'y Y g p+thei. r oiu' ,3"tward
J~sariYioiis e QuaMrtes h'mrig   %
1,Thw;an&amp;m t   ;yp od    etroughe  0tWoi4
sde  ;and Bi my inut tn o-.. ks of c  y _4l4f.f ke
d~t erd. o der ~ptssd befoe th~i.~j h~twit
c i-p-,,esds?: the dprtvaive   he n~
Ge",' " ''raV"  11° 'rj_ qi, w erey  they i" oIu+ir  - ) ea   +h+
sertv  ertsp  e erei, a  i td#prfo1z y$6 ,'t,;,,-r)  y .
of re Wis ter eett , re 's  b l ; d e*Z  iiW,
i4~h~~  pr  de4~~ih' 04*W_


74
Ya             Ay
I~n hndrd,~  n ~leb an~dsoetablihed
izg, %  lpld 'rfof wtedp j4ed
+ nw.  t  ^r, r t t7gr . kby D aki#n' dyItig. a
AndT J i  i'/i       .7:/
tRo~i  ra o  jip hni immebtelyhoping
about ~de of the montto ake an attack
upy  14R    te kd Quarers of rnptor end.
pi~eum h a 4wt~ne boJ4 troke,,r'trieve 4he
~On~1~rnE hliandhis two copaninad ad
ra~deRe d~~0hank~ o te rier, nark 4
Bay       they su4edy ene upn the,
e m.f 1 rg~ bdy ofgJdiase On discoveing
or  =l~ t   ( ret  aMercns o bs
4 Thy sup ~  ,anid ot daybrak arigie4
y/ r et touc   si
a       thp  bu ihng      ans;d ~
cmirl         veg   the icgggsome9 ey
jQ', ey  9%dir s, "  _Rf me fine.Fn the or th
sa 0oyt~u~r bthe.lAdianahad Jeft +~~~'
P'Ay w                       t
p     ~ '% I a."  t i #   %  PP y e .
t   ^0p -(YWhoAty'  fo  Jd tyem   that .,lYeI"
ha      i4iwy oia~j Wt ai
are # teW_ ,.bi jre ;  ;thr e  r i; y re tu ne4  to   j e
pc4;. ,i          s
/     4v s L    ] it3   a' )~  ,tt(  o
lw dM 1r t 4.' r 4tF±  ' .,,,,  ,S~F !) s"}i _.t    5e eag~ tng  X~t
e }f  _t  5  4 ,    :  4 "a.,;r s _. a t ..  Y %%  j   .1  h -.,',3Ctf ,',"
A - 4  '   +_  t c  .  f - ' b u r , t l . -    _+  {   i T " o ' W ~
'tl  t ~    4 4   y'  57!Nf/, r        5  '  " tt} t

PIONEERLIFE.

211

on the bank of the river.-The party had proceed-
ed as far as Middle'Bass Island, but found -they
could proceed no further, in consequence of the
breaking up of the ice. They, therefore abandon-
ed the enterprise, and returned to Fort Meigs:
During their retreat, three young men deserted
them,. retraced their"steps towards Maiden, and
while encamped in the woods a few miles, from this
post, they were. surprised by a party of Indians and
taken as prisoners -to Malden. It is' needless to
say that these prisoners were none others than
Philip Seymour; Alfred Bradley and Bunty-Billy.*
Fort Maiden, the place to which our heroes were
taken, was situated on the east bank of P etroit
River, on the Canada side, and was oMiginally
under the command o    General Brock, to whom
Gen. Hull surrendered his army. Shortly after-
wards Brook was killed at the seige of Queenstown,
after which the command fell into. the hands of
Col. Proctor, who at this time held possession of
Fort Maiden.
On their arrival here, our young heroes found
themselves in: the midst .of Indians and their, no
less .savage foes, the British. They were immedia-
tely -phaed under guard with quite a-number of
other'prisoners.
We must not forget to mention ;that the inten-
tions of the party to which our heroes joined thern-
selves, was anticipated by two supposed Freich-
men wholeft Sandusky (the day before the coin-
pany hd started on this pbrilou expedition) and
crossed 'the ice to Malden, and gave Proctor the
alarm. The British General immediately sent out
his India scouts to watch their 'movements, and
coning upon our heroes, as they lay in camp under
the outh of Huron River, took them prisoners'
The next morning after their capture Gol.
tige~r ohdet~swat ofi M evnro 'ownsp, inom th a .hraah a


212               P!r  s  LI.FE

-Proctor paid them a visit in person, and interroga-
ted them  as to their business in this region.
Philip told them  they were hunters, and their
business was that of hunting-that they were from
the Black Fork in Ohio, and that-they had missed
their way, being in an uninhabited wilderness.
Proctor' had them searched in hope of finding some
papers about them which might prove them to be
spies. But in this, he failed, and he gave orders
to keep. them under guard until he ordered other-
wise. He then left for the purpose of holding a
conference with Tecumseh. The next morning
Proctor, accompanied by Tecumseh, paid them
another visit.
On his first appearance Philip and Alfred were
deeply impressed with the person of Tecumseh--
it was the first time they had seen him. There
was something about his whole person which wad
truly commanding. Philip gazd upon this noble
looking Chief with feelings bordering upon awe ;
and no wonder, for Tecumseh was the most extra-
ordinary Chief that ever appeared in history.. He
was by birth a Shawanoes, and under other circum-
stances would had been .an honor to the.world.
He was, epadowed by nature with the attributes of
mind necessary for great political combinations.. It
was he who formed the grand scheme of uniting all
he, tribes east of the Mississippiinto hostility
against the U:. States.. This. enterprise' he com-
nieneed as early as 1809, andup till the ,war, he
had insiguanted himself by his adroitness, eloquence
and courage, into every tribe from Michilinackin-
nok to Georgia. By his eloquence and cunning-
ness, he played upon the feelings and superstitions
of his race ; and carried with him 'a red stick, which
he, represented as possessing mgical properties,
the acqeptaneg f. whichwas. considered .as joining
his party. From this circumstance the name. "Red
BSlicks" was .appliedtt.all Indians, hodtile to the
United States.

I*

Tecumseh on approaching our heroescast upon
them a; deep and searching glance. His fiery eye
serit a thrill of horror into the hearts of all but
Billy, who sat unmoved by this powerful chief.
Col. Proctor made strict interrogations of Philip
concerning the forces and intentions of General
Harrison. Philip told him that as to his intentions
he knew nothing ; as he. supposed that none but
his .staff officers knew:them; but as to his forces
they were daily increasing-as he passed near the
mouth of the Maumee river a~few days ago; he ac-
eidently came upon his forces, at a vacated camp
fire, on the north 'bank of the river, where he
(Harrison) was joined by a large body of troops-
that after being examined by' Harrison's officers he
was permitted to proceed on his hunting expedi-
tion
This statement Proctor knew was true,.and he
gave orders to treat the prisoners kindly. He
offered them the hospitalities of his fort, but com-
manded that a vigilant watch be kept upon them.
The party was then conducted to the quarters of
Tecumseh. Here Philip and his companions held
a council, in which it was agreed that they would
remain on the peninsula till the breaking up of
winter, and then effect their escape.
Philip sought every opportunity to enquire after
Lilly, without giving any cause of. suspicion. His
anxious eyes closely scrutinized every group of
women ; which caused many enquiring glances to
be cast upon him by those dark eyed forest daugh,
ters.
Time rolled on;- and' nothing was heard of the
young maiden. It is not necessary to tax the
readers patience 'with a recital of the feelings and
anxieties of Philip, during that gloomy winter, at
Fort Malden. The reader's imagination must sup-
ply the place of description.
'One pleasant evening towards the middle of

p o    Lin:              213


PIONEER LIFE.            215

April, Philip and his companions were seated upon
the banks of the river in sight of the Fort. The
severity of the weather had moderated, and balmy
spring'was hastening on.
"Alfred," said Philip, "I'm afraid these Indians
and British will; yet overpower the Americans
Proctor and Tecumseh are now making the most
extensive preparations. for the seige of Ft. Meigs,
and they seem sanguine of success."
"I have no fears of that," replied Alfred, "Gen,
Harrison, is not going to let them drive him from
his post---mark that."
"Not if I were there," replied Billy, half in jest
and the'other half in earnest, I'll bet my life againth
thuppenth hapenny that I can make every red
devil of themrun."
"No doubt of it Billy-none in the least," said
Philip, "but you would have to run first."
"Thod blatht yor," said Billy, "I'll "
"Hold, hold Billy," said Philip in a whisper, "see
there are some Indian wonen coming towards us."
"You Tecumseh's prisoners ?" asked one of them.
"Yes,. maglam," replied Philip, bowing gracefully to
theryoung squaw.
 re'a letter for you," said she, at 'the same in-
stant putting a slip of paper intohis hands, and
then passed on,
"What can .this mean,"said Philip to himself ;
and:hastily tearing open the letter, read as follows:
"SaIR-This will-informyou that a friend wishes
to speak to ry u this evening. Please come-to the
upper Block House ; on being demanded to.give
the counter sign, answer "King.,George's Friend."
. entering yoitvill find an escort, who will con-
duct you to ney chamber. Exhibit no, signs of fear
or excitement, and:you can pass the guards in safe-
ty. Be inside the gate at nine o'clock. Come by
yourself.ilp;"'i             fro    L !  O

merciful heavens, 'tis from Lilly! my adored and
long lost Lilly-I shall 'see her again-yes, I will
break through the powers of men and devils to
gaze once more upon that angel face.-Oh, bless
God, for these few lines-they have raised my
drooping spirits-quelled all my fears and poured
a flood of consolation into my bosom, which I have
never before realized. Oh, thank God, my cup
runs over-my joys are full and I am happy.once,
more-yes, happy beyond expression."
Then pausing, Philip gazed for a moment into
the face of his companions, while a profusion of
tears rolled down his cheeks.
The scene was deeply affecting, and Billy and
Alfred mingled their tears with his.
At the appointed hour Philip was inside the
gate, when two Indians ushered him into the pres-
ence of his beautiful Black Fork Lilly!

i

PIHILIP' SEYMOUR AND HIS COMPANIONS:TAKEN PIUSONERS,

I

214           PIONEM ' USES

, .1


PIONEER LIFE:             217

CHAPTER XXXIII.
INTERVIEW WITH LILLY PIPE-PLANS FOR ESCAPE.
'Twas such a night as might have flung,
It's robe o'er primal nature's bower
On that blest night, the hunter found
His long lost love, the forest flower.
The joy and happiness produced in the minds of
Philip and 'Lilly, at their meeting in the garrison
at Maiden, we ,hall not attempt to 'describe. Lan-
guage is too meagre to express the emotions, which
naturally arise in the minds:of kindred spirits, on
meeting,' under such circumstances.
.As Philp entered the apartment, the beautiful
Lilly met his astonished gaze.
There she sat alone--beautiful as when he had
first seen her 'under Hemlook Fall, in Richland
county.
"Dearest Lilly," exclaimed the aatonished and
somewhat bewildered Philip, as he ,oened the
door of her hub le'apatien--" dearest Lilly"
repeated he,,7and springing to her, clasped her in
his armhs; wile tears of joy rn' down 'his manly
cheeks-   ',1
The happiness which the younghunter this mo-
ment experienced we shall lea e the' reader to im-
agine. For a moment neither of the ,lovers could'
speak: but . that silence was ,big with feeliug-a
feeling, too,.which was inexpressiblydeep. Months

of painful anxiety had tortured their minds, they
both had drank deeply from afflictions bitter cup:
but for all their past woes, the present interview
was an ample attonement, and forgetting. the past,
they rejoiced over the present. As soon as the
young man could command his feelings he thus ad-
dressed 'his "fair one."
"Dearest Lilly, "I am indeed happy- too happy;
I havenot deserved of Heaven so great, a joy as
this. The highest -hope, which ever pictured the
future earth to me, never toldme of bliss like this.
Lily; didst thou ever pray for me? 'I have' for
thee  and I' have felt that my prayers, which I
have tremblingly whispered in the ear. of Heaven,
would be wafted to thy ears by some; bright angelic
minister, the guardian spirit of thy footsteps on
earth. Often times, dark gloomy shadows came
across my mind ; but then I was consoled to know
that the eye which never sleeps would witch and
protect thy pure and innocent spirit, though. lost
to human sight in the untraversed worlds through-
out the depths of unmeasuranble space. Nay, more
I haye felt 'that should I not have found that here
on earth, my oWn soul would have caught a spark
of God's own essence, whose' whole being is love,
which would have lighted me on, follwing, thy
flight through the cycles of eternity ; thi would
have lit up the dark wilderness o f worlds and i-
luminated the voids of space,
"iWhere gravitation wenia to turn the other way.
'Yea, dearest Lillyy thi&amp;would have lent bright-
ness to the'eyes of my soul, so that Iiwould have
recognized thy 'angel face i   a land of darkest
shadows, though around thy form hovered the in-
habitantis'of'cogegated worlds, multitudenous'as
the countess millions of :notes; which float in the
beam sof a universe of t ."'
Lildy sat -gazing into the eyes of Pilip as he
penuted 'forthmhissoul is suckhthily rapture.' here


PIONEER. LIFE219

was a depth of unmeasuired holy feeling in his ex-
pression. Her pure and' virtuous heart breathed
the same devoted feeling, and she replied
"Phf'lip Seymour-fyour kindness toone so un-
Worthy I would desire to appreciate, and next to
your name I would pronounce that of my' father-
what tidings of him?"
"All is 'well- captain Pipe is well. Give your-
self'no uiieasiness concerning him," said Philip.
i'hen my 'happiness is complete," replied the
lovely"indian maiden. "I shall see him agaih and
drinlk' once more from the fountainh of his affeo-
tions.- Devoted father- hewill: lay his hands upon
uiy h 6d, 'and oncenmore beseech 'the blessigg of
the Idian's Great Spirit to rest upon me."
"And'here permit me to say that, to you I owe
a debt: of gratitude; which I would delight to can-
cel were it i miy powerr.'
"Thouowest me nothing exclaimed the young
hunter  AlI have done forthee, was prompted
by other than selfish motives. Lilly'I itust confess
t-I love thee dost 'thou love me ?'"
"Pihli " exclaimed the young maiden, gazing
modestly into his,,fa'e; "you are my deliverer, and
waiting y ur pleasure you shall be mny future pro-
tector."'
'PThank yu, thank you, dearest Lilly--I thank
you for such words of consolation; -and here, in the
presence of Him who reads 'the intenhtons and af-
fections of all hearts, I' soleifnly dedicate my life
lto  the  pronmoto ::of yourr happiness   The  avowall
is -ow made ard recorded iIn heaven; andethou
,att uine, ad we shall only await an opportunity
join our' hands in the presence of hugianeyes.
"Yonur'cpleasure . is mine:and yonr hppnessis
xnepliedt the young woman; "Iam,in your
hands, and to you2will, look for ' protection.
hugh'L do'feel'that I am nowrthy of a mind
aemle, a~d a hart so, iagnniniabas aa~ganer-
0o18.

speak not thus, my fair one," replied the young
man ; "such language wounds    ey beings '.
Then I would crave your pardon," said 'the
maiden.
"Nay, ny," replied Phitp,"thou hast no pardon
to crave from anything that's mortal ."
"But I am an orphan." replied the maiden ";I
am alone in this cold and friendless world. T know
not my origin-all is dark and mysterious to m .. I
have been raised among savages, and have never
had the advantages of civilized life."
-I n.atters not to 'e what may be' your origin.
This isof no importance to me ; but one thin  I
am  confident of; 0yo are of no mean extractioii.
There is a fountain of purity and lovlipess in those
two orbs of thine, whih cannot be traced io an
originof impurity ; to look upon them is to behlad
more captivating loveless than is beheld in the
unfolding glories of the tinted'flower 'whichopis
its bosom to the gaze of the golden rn when his
beams 'illuminate at umrn the mouragin coopet.
"Nay, nay, speak not "to me of your aggbful
origin. To me it brings no unpleasant feeling r "I
love thee. All the deep ,oys.which have'felt in
my short life's search for wisdonb, haf'b "i-ver
brouIghtto me the bliss which'  ismoment realize.
To knowthat thy young heart'1eans upon ,'ine re=
pays me,'or all the toils and dangers though
which I have passed in search of thee.'
"Often and often since the murder of my friends,
I have strayed. by myself, and in inlaneholyione#
ligesM, called to -memory ih e sce s  of the past I,
toot have lboked un myself }a0'"loie "6phan,
whose oi4 home wasthe forest wild- -no father,
nothe sister or brother to cheer' my pensive soul
in its")ioneits 'of despondency. Back of meaxi il
lis silentt 'in the roieless toinb, *hidhi has elbsed
over the last of  erthlyelations." Yes,Ihve
d a et and' Whitary aeeth, the sad~ 1 ni
Co'      i'

18               '1OYER:LIPL


PIONEER LIFE              2

220

PrIONEN LIFE.

oak, whose braiches shode- the tofnbs of friends,
an looke              ewe niyself' as-a solitary
pine, upon the rugged mountain's brow, exposed to
the desolating energies of merciless storms and
tdibt. But in these mnonments' of sadness and
gloom, thy loved image woul4 rise up before me
like a being from  the spirit land; ,and as the
silver nioon illuyninates the dome o'f heaven, so
would the 'thoughts of thee fill my soul with light,
promising bright days and gleams of sunshine in
the span of life allotted to me. 'Night'after night,
as the angels lighted up their starry lights' in the
dark dome of heaven, I have wandered forth alone,
but thy pure spirit was soon by my side, making
me happier and holier,with the knowledge that there
wasone. in whose heart I could pour the tale of
niy woes, and in whose ears I could whisper the
tale of love;-and who in return could love tae with
a  Woman's love.'
"But " continued he, "there is no time to delay.
Let's fl from this gloomy duigeon before the dawnv
rday.
"I am informed that there are two other young
prisners with you in this garrison.
"Yes," 'eplied Philip, "two as brave ears as
ever sent the red current of life through their
arteries."
'iay I ask' their names," inquired Lilly."
"One is Alfred Bradley with whom I became
acquainted on the banks of the HuIurqn river,
replied he "sice which time he has been 'my
contant. companion l the others  nt Dly,
R    air's bound boy, who after the murder of hip
mast ,g w t4aken prison, but escaping from
e   dnka  'as making his way        place of
protection, when he came: suddenly gpon Alfred
apd    self on the .bnk. of'the Augaize."
"    ':said; the yoing mide,"I am reagy
to anoinayio But ~ s~ neessary that' 'you

retire from my chamber by yourself. Pass out of
the, gate through which you entered,'and.,from
thence to the bank of the river, where you will
find several small boats. Await my arrival there.
Betray no symptoms of alarm, and give yourself
no uneasiness respecting my safety. I will manage
all things right."

~1

,  V

221

r
}           
r                 ,                     ,       +
t
t
_                            ,
i        }                      i       ("
1                 , .
.J           '             t                          i

1       ,            1               t
t  r                      f                            ''                             r      4
.                    r                    .                ..                      ..
s"
-                 '           -                                                       '  I                 t
i
f  4    ,,3


'.

CHAPTER XXXIIII.
ESCAPE FROM MALDEN-BATTLE WITH INDIANS.

In the course of an hour, Philip and his com-
panions were seated on the. banks of the' river.
The night was dark, &amp;nd the heavens were pouring
down their watery treasures. Here they remained
'nearly an hour before Lilly made her appearance.
At last their eyes fell upon 'the outline 'of a human
form, moving towards them through the darkness
of the night. That forn' was Lilly's. She had
passed the guards in safety, attired in male cos-
tume. Noiselessly the little party entered one of
the boats, and under the darkness of the night,
with Bpuch- difficulty and no little danger, they
moored Their vessel on the.opposite side of the
rivers Stepping' on -shore,. 'they commenced their
journey through 'what is now called Monroe Co.,
Michigan, bordering on the Lake - shore. ' The
weather being 'wet and considerable rain having
fallen, their -march was anything but: agreeable.
Besides they were; in the heart of an enemy's
country, and exposed to the incursions of their
savage foes. Towardsmorning they encamped in
a dense thicket, almost surrdunded by a swamp.

PO1NEER tIFE.

This retreat was" indeed a secluded one.   he
weather was damp and somewhat cool,but t the
young maidenWas war iy clad, andith ienained
eerifodtable, though under no other  6f thai'e
overhanging and interlaced branhes of the thiket.
In this position they remain tiU the darkhe  off
ii t again set in. The heavens as yet were over-
cast with dak and murky rain cloid d  ifwas
difficult to make much progress under stPeh 'dark-
'iessover swaps and throd h thikkets' 'Itas
indeed a peiloutis undertaking, aid no itidieetn,
save-',that of the. maiden's rescue, ouild 'have
prompted our heroes 'to such an adventure.
Towards the morning of the third'day 'after the
partyhd 'left Ft.'Malden, they name in sight of
the 'pnoath -of Athe'M1aum ee river; ,but here their
pr gress was stopped ii consequence offi iding i
means of crossing the river. Leaving Alfred and
Billy to guard the mnaiden, philip proceededeaiti-
ously up the river, 'for sone distance) in= earch of
a canoe. Comingato a small" bend of the strearu,
he discovered tois gieat joy, a' binge boat tied.
to the bank of theAriver.-In a momnent-he was'.
'the' boat, and' theireraced his steps down the
streamy keeping alopggits batik untilhe atrivedo-
posite the ;placei*here the" balancef hjyparty
lay  Beingassured that o Indiangwar si'ear-
ing,;he 'made his   taboat 'fast,' and repidiard-to' h
comparnions whom he found. anio uy waiting hiik
approaci41+ Theiparty:thenproceeded t&amp; 'the'boit,
and soon afterwards were landed ' n=athe iftsbik
of the river in safety  thence p'oceedinglong
'the Lake sho-e, intiLthe darkness of the1ight
closed, over them, when they soughtshelter n a
Y ma. ravi    i thebanks of  tara, et  ing
into- theLake', ller they'isupspsedythe_ sel"es
sere from the attack of' Psavages, andtheypae or-
Aigly bh'ilt ;afireYThefr campcasiwhat is prw
lcd , ta aunty, wh e, as we have algady

SE 2


224       -       op    Lar1,
remarked, th first trial 9f arms, in the 1te war,
took place,,     '~
4. ur party were sitting around.. the, fire en-
aged in cver atoa their attentn was oagsed
by  a sound offootstep  Q     Q as they8upposed,9ime
tidl Uge down the rvine. 'In  iwnt the .ire
Was extingsuihed, and the party rea1y for acton.
"Oh merciful God," whispered Lilly .ith a ten-
ulgu voce,, "we shall be murdered.",
Thee: here, Mitheth Lilly," whispered Billy,.
before Philip could answer her, "don't be theared,
by thgernany gotherth,, you than't be hurt tho
long ath.Billy Bunty liveth, and when he intndth
'to take its. departure,hc'll just let you 'know."
PhigJp had also spoken 'to Lillynot to be alarm-
ed, that the andians would not attack them before
origgand he flt condentthat they could make
tiir escapebefore daygl
Secreting the yot:ng maiden behind a huge tree,
secure from  danger, the young men arranged
.themselves-'in auch a manner =astto defend them-
selves to thegeatest adygntage, There was, in-
dieeda{deep anxiety (but nothing like fear)'rest-
gin.the' pinds of our little'band, of heroes.- .
They re pined din this positionfor sonwetime,
pr ahp th tyt ,orfory ; minutes, but couldn't
diaen&amp;any signa Qf human life save tlieselvee,
Tbiigg tnl'tey might hate been' deceived in
'he nisthey.had heard= they were bout toguit
theigh'poshtios i4and~enter' agai into convversation,
.rte ,nthejasharp, crack of a scoreorifles fang
thougi..t  _.arkand glogmy ravine and the
n     qine  ae  dathyell of haIfM many say-
"In thename' ofGod,Philip," whisppeedAlfred,
sonewh"eited,. whatcanall this'nmean ""
Tw(h.t dark;andgloorn y 'tightm;" 'otie etWi.k-
hing'tarpeeped tlwough the'thith darkness of tit
fearil glooxie; and strange and bewidingueuughis

PIONE f 'l '.

ros6 in the  minds of our benighted wadrers,
as they sat in painful ankidty in that perilous
ravix e.
ain and again, rang out pon the night air the
shari cracks of the' death dealing rifles, -aid" at
every volley the 'mingled howls of infuriatd sav-
ages, were borne' along the' gloony gorge like the
rails of demons in cavernsof darkness.
The battle was of short duration. One' party
fled, and' were pursued. In a few°moments all was
silent--no, not aient, for as'the shout'of vietory'by
the pursuing party gradually died away in-the idis-
tance, the pitiful moans of ohelof the combatant's
who had fallen in the-struggle were borne to the
ears of our hero es.
"Mercifil Heavens," whispered the deeply ab
armed .and trembling niaiden 'as those.pitiful
moans became audible' to her, "I hear the groans
of some poor' dying:retch i the last threM of
death. Poor c eat e.;!;!his agony'is ttorturing.
How  'mueh  I:wish  there was Ziofsuch  thing saw a, wr.
"Ith o   "ly'a thavage devil , .said Billyd : 'aiad
thince he'th been theeking to thuck our modike
a wild, beatht: let him Ftakewhat K the :hand' of
juthice givthshim. Cuth himh4e'th ioV fit to ive
in thuman tholcety, thoen let himmo n awa.'
A  deep-stillness had now settled d owia nbong the
forest.e No sound were heard .saVe the .moantsof
the'dying' savag 6 '
"Php,"'? saidAlfred, "Billy aridt myself '*i
steal- cautiously upon this moaning  avagea Wa
lea f' hits  ondition    f {_! .", /°. l r""f ;
T thyibpsition Phiip fft}ed uo ob ctidns,
a sitWay iden t ha'tKh0 adventure was'attetidd
Witf6 iai a   tpreiitfdhgAer}inoehis -eoimpa io  iad
fled and left him alone to die.   r4
AcdorAingiyAfred a d'Bily'fautioksifthide
their 'ag ' thet anaingag e: ThftenAeed
within ten steps of himn *thetntdiB6eidr)' lett


226       ~iE            W
inganing the tops of a fallen, tree, theyv.stood for
ayuoment, gazing aro rnc' them, in order to dis-
cover if there were any others near him; fiding
aosw, ap4 beliving huiito be in, his dying strug-
gles they apprpghed him, and'found h  settmg
with h   bkk against a trunk of the tree.in. the
top of wich they h  halted  On beingasked who
he was, and how he came in this corgidgn,t , here-
piied in broken, English-
-#Ve no friend ,of white manome no,:like him.
White manliar- he cheat -no god.. -Me kill -iany
white maname sarry me can't kill more. Me
,soon gone, to myfahers-bad Indian shoot me.in
the dark   -neuo "eehim -1
He uttered a few more broken sentences,.and
therignk in death. All.was overwith him;and
heag irit hd fled' to its forest homer in the spirt
land.Y
letuning tod Pilip, they ;onunicated  7 his
dyingmwrdento him;representingabim as gig ntie
npQWer.d .savng e    andso'sfar asbtheycould
4iaeover n4,the dark, extremely repulsive and'
Th  question wit'h now presented itselfwAs
thatoelti4g to 1he cause of the battle  It- was
ei n   e  uAl r 'party that they had :not been
dicoiledv - hiswas, to allkappearance; aaost
' ing 1&amp;r. oponr.ne.s The attack was sudden and
without any previous ,larm'; and it was evident
it"he pa~ry attacked, -hdino expect      of
epak.. la
While thus meditating over,Athie mysterious
o     yegur pheroesrgr, once n, si r'd in
$;er'+ 'an;p .by te .ning4ed4 oyells of te ey icors
recurginlg $ e despot h  Preey h~d  nth*ig
onset.t
" pQh,; QF39 t" Ge p .msaY the jigh 1ee _rSilly,"
on, h9ipfg iy ye~q ~h~ retur iig~ seveg,M e
aredoat beggro4  e iai  a'  ,

227

No, no, said Philip, "you need have no fears
of that; -these Indians are not hostile 'to- the
American cause- otherwise they would not have
made such an onslaught on their red brethren."
"Ah, but," replied Lilly, "you can not- be
certain which of the two parties, if 'any, are our
friends."
The evidence of the dying savage will determine
that point," said Philip.-" No dearest Lilly, give
yourself no uneasiness about your safety, I am con-
fident all is right.'
On reaching 'thespot, where the action took
p)ace, t  es;ck afire' and pitched their tents -
BrighDt       fires were seen sending ,their
lightsthr*     lh dak woods ; and the Indians
commenced     ag   ernelves in groups around
them.     "fa     '                     cul
O' as   di    side of the hill, Philip could
distitly        r' he Indian camp; and upon
t  I y  11 r ; ght he recognized one count-
enaae'       _ thefiw which he had seen some-
si ilip to himself, "'tit he-
y              ~onldeut 'tiShee'l' will epure
add-o     ingfth'&amp;fyung
y thr6gh the forestuntil he
or forty p'ace o   4ne of the
~'1~hs eno little rts~to'e; 'is-
.                  s  Q  iitl    ritg   this.
c               bi'iecnuristed lisJyu  discov-
ei'y, a~'e whoJle"xyster     4ppeared. 'In
a few moimentsaftterwards tarrgerments were
made to enter Beavers camp, (which was ac-
comnpli.shed without any difficulty 'or danger,)
when they were joyfully received and comfort-
ably entertained; and 'arter partaking of some
Da~

rio   i *tFEs


228

refreshments, Beaver entertained the party with
a full history of the particulars of his present
adventure, which we propose to lay before the
reader in the next chapter.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

EEAVWR  S BATTLE. WITH IN ANS-)EAWffOF K4NOTORY.

J3rutus won the-world's applause
When his ar.n bade Caesar perish,
Why not, then young Beaver's praise
In our memories fondly cherish.

I

SATTLE A' FORT MEIGS

r* '"4

One dark and windy .night, in the month 'of
April, 1813. one 'Capt. Wm. Oliver in 'company
with-a young Kentuckian, left Fort Meigs for, Ft.
Findly, a distance of about thirty-three miles. ' It
was about nine o'clock when they started on their
journey, which at this period, was cenuidered ex-
trenely perilous,-They had not' proceeded: far
when they came suddenly in sight of an Indian
camp, around the fires of which the savages were
busy preparing their suppers. They had approach-
ed within disturbing distance of' the savages, ho,
on hearing the noise of their horses hoofs, sprang
to their feet and with savage yells atackedthen.
On hearing their yells,.they reined;their ?horses
into the branches of a fallen tree. 'The: horses, as
if conscious of the danger,,stood perfectly'still.
The Indians supposing them 'to have retreated
towards the Fort pursued, them, passing around
the tree without making any discovery of them in

PTONEER LIPL


230               PIONEER LIFE:

the thick darkness. As soon as the Indians had
gone some distance, they put spurs to their horses
and dashed forward through the woods through
which they passed all the way to their destination,
where they arrived safely with the exceptionof.
their, clothes, which were torn into rags by, bushes
and brambles. In this rapid flight they received
quite a number of contusions against the trees,
leaving several marks upon their bodies. They
had scarcely made secure their flight into the Fort
when the Indians also made their appearance ; but
they were too late for their prey, and consequently
commenced a retreat.
The next day a party of soldiers accompanied
the Captain and his companion' back to Fort Meigs,
when theCaptain made known to the officers .his
night journey through the wilderness.
"The. damn 'red sticks," exclaimeda tall, young.
Indian Chief, "me hunt 'em up-me give 'em what
white man call "'ticklar h--l."  And so saying, he
called around him his, young and fiery warriors,
axed. acter addressing them for a few moments in his
owndl'nguage, they left the Fort amid the cheers.
of the;4ericana.
-They soonY came to the camp a9t which Capt.
Oli erl adebeensurprised. The p suing Indians
h deirned to thisseamp the'next mynrning. from
whi hgP$hey hadproceeded toward the Lake down
thebank s;ofthe Maumee, until they discovered the
traiLofwh atithey supposed to be a party of whites.
riahi theyollowed funtilthe sades of night closed
a&amp;ropd themand they halted for the purpose .of
en   p 1nmioetiMIorning  Indescending the ravine
iiiwhieh Philip _and.This coinpany had mde their
camptheywe. surprised to find it already occupied,
bit:,the Else heixg immediately extinguished they
o udnot ex ctly say whether the party were
whites'or ndia;nspa fact which they wishedyveri
fled before making the attack. Corning to a halt on

the brow of one of the banks of the, ravine,they
lay down fatupon the ground, awaiting therresait
of their observation.
. As the Indians lay in this position, Beaver and
his party, who had been, closelypursuing them, ad-
vaned upon them, arranging his men in the most
favorable position, commanded them to make sure
of. heir prey.
At thesignal of their commander, the deep
silence of that'wilderness was broken by. the sharp
reports of the death-dealing rifles, ringing thiiough
that dark forest ; and the mingled yelled of nearly
three score of savages rose above the din of battle.
The prostrate Indians were perfectly panig strick-
en ; and those who survived the onset sprang to
their feet and bounding down the bank of the ra-
vine, endeavored to make their escape as best they
could throughthe deep darkness of the night.
Beaver and his warriors pursued them down the
ravine for some distance; but loosing sight of them
after they had followed them several miles, return-
ed to the place where. theyhad attacked then.
On theirreturn Philip recognized the noble hearted
Oief, to whom he made himself and party known,
and under whose protection ,he placed himself aid
little party till morning.
ihilip related to young Beaver his adventure's
sincehe bad seen hip, and gave him the fill partic-
ulars of affairs at ilalden. The young Chief seemed
muh. interested, and applauded our hero . ery
highly.
eaver was much.-struck with the appearane , of
Lilly, and readily entered into cornersat 'nwth
her, btowing upon her mny. complimentary on-
sideertions.,j':j,.
The hour of midnight had flown before. our
broes closed their eyes in sleep. The evening
had passed _away'most, pleasantly, and the hours
seemed but moments. Philip' and his companions

PIONEER ,'Llpig,              231


232            PIoNEER LIFE.

flO1EftLI.E 23

had not enjoyed much rest for some nights previous,,
and 4hey signalized;their wish to enjoy a few hours.
sleep ; accordingly, thqv lay down upon their blank-
ets, under cover of a tent, before a blazing fire and
slept soundly till inorning.
As the light of day broke in upon the forest, the
Indians were astir, and after plundering the dead
of their arms and clothing, they started for the cave
of Captain 'Pipe, in company with Philip and his
companions.
Before leaving the camp, Philip informed Beaver
of the conversation which Alfred had held- with a
dying  Indian, after the battle.   Whereupon
Beaver had his body brought into the camp for
burial.
Lily and Philip on beholding him were. no little
astonished to find him to be no other than the re-
pulsive and bloody Kanotchy, the murderer of Kate
Seymour.
"Great God !" exclaimed Lilly, "this is the same
Indian who tore me away from my devoted father-
this is the merciless and unfeeling Kanotchy. My
prayer is answered-the curse of' Heaven has fallen
upon him, and he has met his fate in a moment
last 'expected. Poor fellow !" said she, "after all
I cannot help pitying him."
"Pity the devil !" said. Billy, "ith a pity he had'nt
thucked'himthelf to death thortly' after he came to
life on the 'thage of action."
For a fewmoments Philip and Lilly stood gazing
upon the lifeless remains of this bloody savage,
while thoughts of other days rose fresh in their
memories. Before them lay the murderer of Kate,
and the abducted of Lilly, but the arm which had
struck the fatal blow was now paralyzed by the
ha d of death.
Philip on first beholding the wretch, had his
feelings wrought up to a high pitch 'of excitement,
and could scarcely refrain from hewing his body to

pieces; but a sober reflection taught him that such
an act would not satisfy the demands of vengeance.
After hastily despositing him with his dead eom-
panions, the party left the camp and proceeded to
the cave of Captain Pipe, where they. arrived a
little after night fall. Beaver and his warriors
had accompanied them within a few miles of their
destination, and then retraced their steps to Harri-
son's Head Quarters.


1 ON991M LUT.

CHAPTER Xxxv.
CAPT. PIPE MEETING S WITH HIS DAUGHTE--EXPECTED ATTACK
OF THE BRITISH.
"Kind Heaven, whose power no being can control
Hath sent her back to cheer the Chieftain's soul."
The pleasure and happiness which Capt. Pipe
experienced at the meeting of his daughter cannot
be pictured.
We admire the sentiment expressed by the poetic
Dryden, in one of his celebrated odes, when. he
says
"Sweet is pleasure after pain."
This sentiment .the reader has, no doubt, often
experienced. In most instances, the, pleasure we
receive, after undergoing days, months or years of
painful anxieties, is heightened with the contrast
of 'the past. We look back on the past, and re-
member .its struggles--the difficulties, privations
and sorrows with which we had to contend ; and
contrasting them with our emancipation from them
all, we seem to realize an extent of pleasurable
sensations beyond our most sanguine expectations.
Earth with its grand and magnificent scenery was
educed from chaos end darkness; and 'gold which
exhibits the most dazzling lustre, is first tortured


PIONEER LIFE.

PIONEER LIFE..

During .this affecting colloquy, Philip and his
companions had remained silent; but their feelings
were in harmony with the old man and his affee-
tion ate daughter. The interview was of the most
affe acting nature: and the young men, though silent,
we p't like children.
Th e Captain then turned to the young hunters,
and thus addressed them:
"Gentlemen, to you I am indebted for the heart-
felt happiness I this moment experience. You
have brought to my soul a world of joy in returning
to me this dear creature. It is not in my power to
reward you pecuniarily for this great service which
you have tendered me. Gold and' silver possess
no merits to requite this act of kindness.  The
wealth of the world is but a 'poor remuneration;
and' I cannot estimate this act of humanity, only by
the standard of eternal happiness, which I pray
the Great Spirit to confer upon you all. You have
encountered and triumphed over the thousand dif-
ficulties and perils which beset 'the lives of pio-
neers-others would have grown weary and dis-
couraged, and abandoned the enterprise as hope-
less and reckless. But in you, I find all the ele-
ments necessary for carrying out any undertaking,
however seemingly impracticable. And here permit
me tosay to you, that this act of kindness shall be
remunerated."
"Captain," exclaimed Philip, I thank you most
affectionately for the distingiished consideration
with which jyou so generously regard myompan-
ions and myselff. You speak of remuneration, Sir,
I aux alre aly 'remunerated  LIhave been fully
comperis ted for all the difficulties and. rangers
through, wideh I have passed in performing. this
duly. The gratification arising from the knoWl-
edge of one's having rendered his fellow 'man a
service when he nmst s tas in need' of it, is a bet-
ter remuneration than all the riches of the world,

With you sir, I too can rejoice, and with you too,
I can weep."
"Venerable sir," said Alfred, "I am happy to ex-
press my thanks to you for your favorable opinion
of myself'. This distinguished consideration isdully
appreciated; and here. permit me toatsure.:you
that in addition to what little I have alreadgedone
to secure the'happiness of you and your daughter,
I am willing to go upon any errand of mercy or
humanity you may bepleased to.send ie."
"Thee here, Mr. Alf, by the mother of Motheth,
and that haintha thaying anything bad about.the
gall-th,-I'll go with you--even tho far ath to the-
thouth gate of the bottomleth pit, on thuch an er-
rand."
During the conversation Lilly had been seated
by the-side of her father, now and then wiping
the tears from her eyes,,as she listened to expres-
sionsrof the high ;r ga rd :for her happiness mani-
fested by her deliverers.
Philip's mind as he lay down to rest, dwelt upon
the young maiden; and strange thoughts were pass-
ing 'through the mind; of Alfre4Bradky, whose
memory dwelt upon the early reco1lectlons Af h Qie
ud friends. Where. was he now,? It       art
of a dreary wilderne s, ifar from.thej   oC's
natiity.   ew  trang    e.t49 of life- r1
of change end strngeents. 1e ad beeii Tr6n
upon life'sgurrtyithou t       dlaedge    e
his fortune would Jead--hn aso intewd
WQ ds5 and at;tAtr moment was res95n g,n ot upn
sqme isp4t and. 4guy~ ied,iugsote. gorggp  In e,
t. in the 4ark caverns of c d arth 1o m g av-
Among Alfred's thought it  m st ibe a9}e s
were tohgsof the y q 9i9g wopnwhose eonal
;eams   da oa dpp an       ga'g4gn  s     d
not an impro8sswon  co  h a .Jve;4        a
had not entered his mind. His was' tfre'fecti

236

237I

1


23                IONEER 'Pa
t7                   toc  hi, a i  cm e rf, i tshw ,  i   hwlI
;1,9 ffii.trenhan ting.{ She . "  hy of ;  a
panionehip~ar ongt angels.,-No rand , T1lhp has
g peln d his 1ife i  Lei'r scu&amp;e I. nyse.i would ik
t °n.{thousand - such rlives.as2 rm I ?  to-- res eu e.,h  a
4fro'n the hands-of- savage 19xds.-Uow muoh d e ,
countenianteo resemble ers 1itt~ler  Aim&amp;s~-p ,oor
rr1ii ot'ibtV she'd passed, -Io.suveerth";om-
pyo*   ry' devoted ' motijer ,: . . tWe havvesai
~Ain  a°,thoughts filled'hisnAndhi.f:l.g-wer
naonbly srage'' 14ha     hemrd and rea&amp;Qf
brothers meeting brothers, and sisters meeting
iserso 'hen I eas1 ! eXpected.,
C~~dtskebe this - i -glo i c ister ' ?=I=pofib".
i' riot.ic     e posslbeb ht.dotibtfnlrin th extre me,;
~i'viffA    ere;' how "co ~ldth it faet now ,be
made known. There coid ' bev row Thor ' rliabtc:
M6i ioe"of the fc '-'adik;f  4onedt~ idea
insf;11repGs td rbtus . rok'fto;-sayThe'le~tA  t verydo
jut;o q4,j.  iase ttling hst houghV  i~coiousness
was soow shroude4;dre     ~~~        f mJ" Y
.s" I!"i_ oring dawned, ancd 6 ,ui littlear ty V e  astirX6.".
At, cos d1ation  as? held,'ini 'hi ch 'was greed that
~hiiip and his l i  aiiio0.7srWilid 1iliidiatI  1e
.r fi4  /'yig  ,1itfox  tdi  C c tiiirrPi" Ai a  Philip
~'dk'frii b~  o~~t ~ fig~ri~ii"nd putting
~int          d  4     t !}t'ehaii  ofLilr  idhr 1  i'XfmOy
which it was bestowed upon the ill fated Kate,
came fresh 'ain h~r iind.'
Iin y  ,mVP '          h dute hili Vp echdte grisiwhere

'('7X !  ,_, r  rs "  ' ' '- -y rt ;  rY  :  " e-Ir7 s,.
~ r  -;1 ,-      -''
r.-  r'  f  G1  S% y f  t  P}  s   "    ,' i r  c  '  a  -  t  tr  '  ''P
}  t  T  Prt  1  ;    . 1  !     t  r f  f  ..  i  ,    .  :. i  r i - !   1 r 1
"rT           r (N 1T.M l AS C E  1  . ) (JQL . PlflA  ,Y  tF S Fi" r l PAr k .N
t'   . v,,  !f; " rrwr ~r'1r  am  r /rtt . y    ' l'rI'
Gi.i           1       '    t  to. ra  L ~  eer~  ide
Whie C  nddyig  r thfostrnd
rivaly atF      tI4ortr Meig  F-  r ,r1' l '   6 ' '   H;
'afW a~~flyi ~stheovted braiandre 6 the upBtd~ih
~W Qar-r)hi' ahan. ding strength rs nd.wremd
"T  .:CVII  h" satd  it r,'tthervey f yor
ua IoniLrs, a- fxhifotei: n  he:de ftt   enra
"Win  h r; ri he ivrRasn,®aLee   il
appluded_benth e. qal bet of thea KiFg11You


240              PIONEER LIFE.

father; and for your valuable services. he will
richly reward you, by driving the white rebels off
your land restoring them to you. It is now our.
intention to storm Fort Meigs, the Head Quarters
of General Harrison, and in this undertaking your
services are indispensably necessary. Youchave
about one thousand warriors under your camihand,
which you will please place in such positions, as are
best adapted to their mode of fighting; and bid
to remember that the standing orders of the seige
are 'no quarters to the d -n rebels.'
"Sir," replied the noble Chief, "I lift up my'
hatchet only to save the lives of my people and
protect my country ; and under this consideration
I am ready to follow you to battle."
"well said Proctor, "it is for you alone that
the-King has sent his'subjects here. They come to
help you regain your lands from these plundering
white rebels,"
In the course of ten or twelve days after this
conversation one afternoon as the forces of Gen.
lJarrison were gathered together on parade before
the: camp,: 'Bunty, Billy came running up to one' of
the officers, exclaiming:
"Thee. here, Mither officer," pointing his, finger
towards two strangers on the opposite side of the
river, "thee there's two thuthpithious looking fel-
lowth thanding on the other aside of the river, ean't
you give em as thuitable invitation to pay you a
nearer vithet.".
"Certainly my little, man,". said the officer ; ,and
turning this  n, bade them clear the battery,
and lt'rthwith the engine was pointed towards thern,
and the next moment the earth was seen flying
about them in all directions.
By the beard of ,Mahomet," exclaimed .the
icer, "that was an admirable shot. See !.the
devils are off like a hurricane-straight for an-
~ada."

Happy it would have been for many a*.gallant
hero, had that missile brought death to those two
Chieftains, who were none others than Proctor, and
Tecumseh:
Some time after dark of the same night, three
young Cnen entered Fort Meigs  ith :te startling
intelligence that a large body of British and
Indians had landed their forces on the hill on the
north side of the river, and were busily engaged in
erecting their batteries preparatory to an attack
the next morning.
Morning came, revealing to. the General, the
army of Proctor and Tecumseh on a commanding
eminence on the opposite of the river ;the main
part being stationed at the old English Fort, some
distance below.
On one bank of that turbid stream were.stationed
the haughty legions. of Proctor, and his bloody
allies, the merciless Indians; on the other was.the
gallant Harrison and his hardy pioneers.
'Twas morning-a lovely May morning.. The
golden sun was wheeling up his chariot..cf light
above the tinted horizon. The mingled melodies
of the woodland minstrels were floating upon ;the
soft and balmy morning air, filling the forest with
the most enchanting strain; little dreaming of. the
horrible storm  of war then gathering ,in deadly
g1o6m over that garden vale of the Maumee.
Hark 'tis the trump of war-=-the cannon's mighty
roar. The siege has now commenced : and can-
non answers to -threcaboming cannon's roar, wbjle
the firm, solid earth seems to tremble under the
mighty shock, for three successive days.
"See! General," exlam ed one of .the. offers,
"the Indians have crossed the river and are as-
eendig 'the tops of the trees upon. the brow of
yonder.hill."
At this moment a message was received frpm
Proctor, requesting th&amp; surrender of the Frt.

icth:                              241


~N6l fHumvt~oiso toldd  iese ngrtog  Col.
~rkoPte.o th jdi oiti;;hutintotchPe baengd
taking. On receiving Harrison's replyiihenti..
44hdi{agn6inJiasorm ieii.eabg:ibsiervingisiding
bhpt {b d4a ithyyj coual@Molun atoy+e  M tthe
9drffdaiihlush hats end 4etwareni dh
adftW'his     ad iwda0 ad aigerous rap edadeAiaIs
rya dtakedi Wifh.1 gea4egree  Iff et ngdyrde
soldiers.--The enemy comprehen rdthss y-
enkpatrd1cdi netce directing heig,,nti'hot
tAn61morkmen ) kbehbta nyanaor falfw
1tkhiirdf 4t1kug e    ndw, e+f uhitkebdh* qps
of our tale. The workmen had 'noiveefnjAgp-
bgageda4indhi# Qp ai#Awlleihey4gP ggigj.
-b 18amMAhV thenej sbteya R s  1wd 111
94hi hr pas agskehq eara t  g          e
head- of a. woris p byuh dRm o  I i  fr
d a" Tlhei'e ahbdy)lthy said1irl~yd'yfgit'h,
Mar'ethadpIathoe ter tindwyingLJ pligdlyis
= %4itnreenhTEstefu:5GodnegaImecMa
ini4d h 46kithrget theh enietdA a 4jpige-
de  drgthall;.,.h. n Afgalit bbthr' b A  a-
M d $AB  w   elld ranish hies kin9#  9b
dd~Mt Wiir gitoghshe  an, cfdngidbdgpd
in on% f tlhkvPte , jai ing au o an  t
-     j1F odgr eith Tbhe °egepton qPdIfell
spodtet bivdiien4wee, waitingitherQrriJixpjaipn
Mehrhey4eupposed xal  eatfstt  sfff spr-
" The ntfhibtcoiishr.  heAb ijthi hdha tl lgaid-
"   t  tI  ath'nM 4tvtlio-h}Aonr pubewa'TM  dnrtatfeel
zne 'n e%  ithome fretair, itui smedaytig
zle nd* ive him thome' freth air," in~idso4aygg,
If%   d.f a t   1; ldi nllag4 4 Nehsing

PTON ER .LTE'.           243

'from its socket to the no small astonishment, and
infinite delight of his companions. On examination
the shell was found to be filled with inflammable
matter, which once ignited would have wrapped
the whole building in one sheet of luri4 flame.
This circumstance, it is said, lent wings to their
shovels, and with the loss of some of their compan-
ions the work was soon completed.
On the night of the 4th of May, about 12 o'clock,
a messenger arrived at Fort Meigs, bringing the
welcome intelligence of the near arrival of General
Clay,'with his brave Kentuckians-that he was
within two hour's march of' the Fort.-Harrison
had been daily expecting him, and on receiving
this intelligence sent orders for him to land eight
hundred of his men on the right bank, take, posses-
sion of and spike their cannon, and then immedia-
tely return to their boats and cross the river and
seek protection in the Fort.. The remainder of his
forces were to land on the left bank and fight their way
to the Fort, while sorties were to be made from the
garrison in aid of this operation. Col. Dudley being
eldest in command, led the van. He effected the
landing of his men without difficulty, and executed
the orders of his General, after which he called
upon his men to fly to the boats ; but they dis-
obeyed his orders, and sent up a shout of triumph;
and permitted themselves to be drawn in ambush
by the Indians.
General Harrison and some of his officers were
standing upon the grand battery, and, seeing the
danger into which the infatuated soldiers of Col.
Dudley were plunging themselves, beckoned them
to return ; but the soldiers supposing them  to be
returning the cheers, they reiterated their shouts
of triumph.-Harrison seeing 'their reckless infatua,
tion, cried out in tones of deepest anguish-
S" They are lost!, they re lost! A toXsand 1 dol-
FF.

"0


244.

PIONEEMtLIME

lars to any man who will cross that river and in-
form Col. Dudley of his danger."
This was attempted, but before the gallant young
men had reached the middle of the river, the Brif
ish and Indians had cut off their retreat, and now
the work cf death had commenced. They now saw
their hopeless condition. The red hounds of hell
came pouring round the terror stricken soldiers
in overwhelming numbers, while their shouts and
yells rent the forest with the most appalling din.
The battle now commence ir  -earnest, and hand
to hand and face to face they fought and fell. The
Americans were defeated and surrendered themselves
prisoners of war. As their arms were taken from
them, the mingled yells of that wood full of savages
rose high above the cannon's roar, echoing through
that wilderness, like the dismal shout of ten thous-.
and devils in the gloomy caverns of perdition.
They were lost !
The prisoners were given up to the tender mer-
cies of the savages who after contlucting them  to
the old garrison, commenced the work of butchery,
under the eyes, of the loathsome and detestable
Procter.' The work of death had commenced, and
the red current of life was soon flowing from the
bodies of the mangled wretches.
While this was going on, a raging thundering
voice was heard in a distance, and the next mo-
ment a bold and graceful chief reined his fiery steed
in their midst, and dismounted near 'where two of
his brethren were in the act of murdering a prison-
er. He seized one by the throat, and the other by
the breast, and with one powerful effort threw them
to the ground. Then drawing his tomahawk and
scalping knife, he ran between the prisoners and
the Indians with the fury of a madman-. and dared
any of the hundreds which surrounded him to at-
tempt to murder 'another white prisoner. Then
turning round he exclaimed :
"Where is Gen'I Proctor ?"

I

PIONEER LIFE:

245

Proctor, who was standing at a short distance off
conversing with an Indian Chief, exclaimed in a
cowardly tone ;
"Here I am."
'Then sir," replied the distinguished Chief,.
" why don't you stop this inhuman butchery ?"
"/Sir," replied this cowardly human brute, "your
Indians cannot be controlled,"
* Begone then from my sight," retorted the noble
hearted savage ; "You are not fit to command-go
and put on petticoats."
This cutting reproof stung Proctor to the heart,
he bit his lips with rage, but had not the manhood
to reply, and returning to his savage companion
renewed the conversation ;
"Captain Montour," said Proctor, "I shall look
for you at your post at the- appointed time. The
Indian bowed his assent, and the next moment put-
ting spurs to his horse, he dashed off rapidly to-
wards Fort Maiden.

f
f
r
7

9


CHAPTER     XXXVII.
CAPTAIN MONTOUR SURPRISED AT LILLY)S ESCAPE--ANOTHER
ATTACK ON FORT MEIGS..
He sought in vain the maiden fair-
His prize had gone-he knew not whore.
Captain Montour, mentioned in the last chapter,
was originally from Black Fork in Richland county..
He belonged to the Delawares at Greentown. This
Indian was highly intellectual, and had graduated
at Cannonsburgh college. He was a sharp, shrewd
villian. On being made acquainted with' the his-
tory of his race, he found that they had been great.
ly imposed upon by the whites. This knowledge
embittered.him  against the whites, and he only
waited an opportunity to direct his influence against
them. The opportunity was offered in the last war
with England. Some time during the year of 1811,
Tecumseh paid him a visit at Greentown, and with
the promise of being promoted to office he secured
his services. Montour sought an interview with
Captain Pipe, in hopes of securing his influence on
the side of Tecumseh ; but the Captain treated his
proposal with contempt, alleging as his reason for
so doing the consideration of the fact that helhad

I

PIONEER LIFE.

247

signed the treaty at Greenville in 1795, at which
time he had pledged his honor that he would,for-
ever afterwards maintain his integrity.
This enraged the haughty Chief, and he vowed
vengeance. Hitherto Montour had been on term's
of friendship with Captain Pipe, and had endeavor-
ed to insinuate himself into the favor and esteem
of his daughter Onishishsha.
Mont our was a handsome and 'intelligent Indiat,
and' Lilly had sbown him some respect, (but enter-
tained no sentiments of love for him,) but on his
attempt to dissuade the mind of her parent from in-
tegrity, she became highly incensed against him,
end abruptly left his company. Shortly afterwards
Montour left Black Fork,, and threw himself under
the protection of the British government in Canada,
where he received the commission of captain.
As soon as the war broke out, this perfidious vil-
lian sought every opportunity to wreak his venge-
ance on Captain Pipe, who had as he conceived,
offered him a base insult. To attempt to take the
life of the Captain he knew would not do, as it
would call down upon him the vengeance of many
who, though opposed to the American cause, Were
nevertheless his firm friends,
He had sought the hand of Lilly, but she had
indignantly refused him; and he determined to
wrest her from her father. by force. .For this pur-
pose he engaged the service of the bloody Kanot-
chy, and some others. Kapotchy was instructed to
watch the movements of Captain Pipe, and com-
municate the same to Montour. Accordingly, as
soon as Kanotchy learned that Captain Pipe had
determined, to remove to Cleveland, he sent Mon-
tour the, intelligence, requesting him to meet him
on the bank of the Lake near Cleveland.
Kanotchy and his accomplices followed the Capt.
,and, his daughter to Cleveland, and on'tly following
evening found Lilly alone as she was seated upon

h't
i
i


PIONEER LIFE:

the bank of the Lake, and approaching her, seized
her in his arms and bore her off to Montour, who
having all things in readiness, hastened away with
her to Malden, where she was found by Philip and
his companions. Kanotchy with his companions im-
mediately returned to Black Fork'in order to elude
suspicion, where we have found him engaged after-
wards in the outrages committed in that region.
On arrival .at Fort Malden, after the first siege
of Fort Meigs, Montour was no little surprised on
finding that his intended victim had escaped. She
was missing. Th made strict inquiry as to her dis-
appearance, but could gain no information respect-
ing her elopement, and he almost came to the con-
clusion that some invisible agent had aided her in
escaping, as she had repeatedly told him that un-
seen guardians were daily attending her footsteps,
and that the Great Spirit to whom  she had com-
mitted her entire being would some day visit him
and all the others concerned in her abduction with
condign punishment.
Montour spent the greater part of the day in
searching for information respecting Lilly, but all
to no purpose. At length he thought of the three
prisoners, who a few weeks previous had been
taken, into the garrison, and on enquiry, he found
that they too, were among the missing. He further
ascertained that two female Indians had passed by
these prisoners, as they were seated on the shore
of the stream, but could not ascertain their names.
Taking these things into, consideration, the dis-
appointed and outwitted Chief rightly inferred
that they had been sent in search of the girl, and
had carried their scheme into successful operation.
Montour finding that he had been outwitted by-
the whites became more deeply exasperated, and
swearing vengeance upon every white man, he
again crossed the river, and at the appointed time
called uiyow Gen'l Proctor, and informed him of what

248

J
1
i
l
'

249

had transpired in the Fort since they had left, and
sgnified his willingness to hazard his life in any
enterprise which promised th'e destruction of every.
American rebel.
"Well," said Proctor, "I have concluded to re
new the siege of Fort Meigs.. Calm and deliberate
consideration has induced me to believe that a sec-
ond attempt will be successful. But on calling a
council of war it was agreed not to commence the
attack again until they had collected a sufficient
force to take the Fort by storm. But before re-
treating to Malden, Proctor made another demand
on General Harrison to surrender. But Harrison
admonished the cowardly butcherer not to repeat
it, upon which Proctor withdrew his forces to
Maiden, and after remaining there a.few days e-
turned; and on the 22d day of May made another
attack, but met with no better success than before,
and again retreated in confusion, covered with dis-
grace, to his Head Quarters, where he meditated
an attack upon Fort Stephenson, on the Sandusky.
"In a few days after the second seige .of 'Fort
Meigs, Philip and his companions 'paid another
visit to the cave of Captain Pipe, for, the purpose
of persuading him to leave the cavern and 'take
refuge in Fort Meigs. But the Captain declined,
and gave as his reason the uncertainty of war, and
in case of surrender or'capture, his daughter would
meet with no mercy from the hands of her savage
foes. He felt entire safety where he was,' as the
cavern was unknown.
"But go," said he, ".fight for and .defend your
brethren, and should you fall in defending them,
your death will be the more gloriou.
"Oh father !", exclaimed his daughter with 'ears
in her eyes, "he must not die."
" My God, Mitheth Lilly," said Billy, ;" dont
think 'of the liketh; you couldn't kill lMatier

PtO EE&amp; LYFE"


Philip, no how. If he wath to be thot, he wouldn't
thtay that long enough to thay from you ten min-
uth.~Darn his picturth, if he would."
"Pshaw Billy," replied Alfred, "you're jesting:
Philip's visits here are on business relating exclusi-
vely to the father."
"Mebby tho," said Billy;.."well, if thath the
cathe,,I do athure you, it muth be moth thunderen
urgent, for when he tharth to come, he putteth
ahead like a thunder gutht."
At this juncture Alfred could no longer restrain
his " risibilities," and giving vent to his f ellings in-
dulgecd in a paroxysm of hearty laughter.
Come, come Billy," said Philip, "none of your
nonsense ; your getting overly romantic since you
made your last will and testament to your fair
victress on the arena at the village of Wapakon-
neta."
As soon as Philip had finished his reply to Billy,
he proceeded to give the old man and his daughter
an account of the siege and affairs at Fort Meigs,
and after remaining a day or, two with the Chief-
tan, he and his companions again set out for the
Fort;'for' the purpose of securing position in the
army in which they might be the most servicable
to their country.
Some few days previous to the attack upon
Fort Stephenson, Philip and his companions set
out on a reconnoitering expedition with the in-
tention of visiting Major Croghan at Fort Stepen-
son.  The young men directed their steps to-
wards the Lake shore, about twenty' miles from
the Fort. But owing, to the numerous swamps
and the darkness of the night they missed their
way, and wandering in the woods, suddenly c;ame
upon a party of Indians seated around their camp-
ire, apparently in the greatest glee, making mer-

.

Vomar    L1Fr.                      25.1

iy over their evening meal. There were, three of
them in company. * Getting within shooting dis-
tance, they fired, and the next moment the savages
were writhing in the throes of death,
*One of these was named Sacamanac, already spoken of in a preceding note
Billy recognized him, having seen him with two others enter the village, with
several white scalps into which Billy had been taken prisoner. Thuagperished
another of the Richiand county scourges.
GG

260               ?faNVEIR LYVV .


CHAPTER XXXVIII.
G&amp;EN. HARRISON INVADING CANADA-DEATH OF TEOUMSEH.
While clouds of sulphur compass then around
The dead and dying strew the goryground,
The day is lost, some in confusion fly,
Some stand their ground and resolutely die.
September the tenth, 1813, is a day ever memo-
rable in the annals of American history. Two hos-
tile armies were stationed on the opposite shores of
the Lake, awaiting the result of the battle in dread-
fu'l suspense. The battle was fought midway be
tween those two armies, on Lake Erie, a few miles
distant from the Ottawa line, between Commodore
Perry, commander of the American fleet and. Com-
modore 3arclay of the British fleet. At fifteen
minutes past eleven o'clock the sound of the war
bugle was heard stealing over the waters of that
tranquil lake from the Detroit, the enemies head-
most ship, ad the next moment loud and deafning
cheers from 11 the crews rose in mid air, followed
by the more appalling cannon's roar. The battle
had commenced, and for three dreadful hours were
the waters of that beautiful lake shaken, by the
storm of battle. 'Tis over. The Americans are
victorious, and the thunders of the battle are hush-

PIONEER LIFE.            253

ed in silence, save the dying moans of the mangled
warriors strewn upon the decks.
'T was four o'clock, when the gallant Perry, fold-
ing up a piece of paper placed it into the hands,of
a messenger, who leaving the scene of bloodshed,
sped his way to Gen. Harrison and placed in his
hands the message from Perry. Hastily tearing it
open the General read aloud, while a breathless
anxiety rested on the minds of his officers and
soldiers:
GENERAL HARR1SN-Sia: We have met the enemy
and they are ours.
0. H. PRaRY.
On, hearing this welcome intelligence, one long
and loud shout of "long live the gallant Perry,"
rose high above   the forest trees around Fort
Meigs.
This brilliant victory inspired the American
General with the most sanguine expectations of
the full completion of all the contempleted objects
of the expedition, and he accordingly-made, prepa-
rations to strike the decisive blow, by invading
Canada.
- Accordingly the most energetic preparations
were put in- operation, and on the morning of Sep-
tember the 27th, the whole army, artillry, ih-
tary stores, provisions, and troops Were ready for
embarkation. Before starting General Harrison
addressed his army.
"Fellow soldiers, said he, "there is a future in
the tide of war, when conducted in the=light ofiself
defence. Oi soil has been invaded by hIri:les,
ty's soldiers--they have; innumerousingtaticescdes-
poiledathehomes of our brethreri arld miurderd ou
defenceless citisens,*plundering and destilini
theni6f their homes aid property. These~otiag
mnst be avenged. memberr the rive Raiininb
reammr it-oily Whilkt victor is suspedk -


254

PIONEER LIPE.

revenge of a soldier cannot be gratified on a fallen
enemy."         .      -
." Towards sundown of the same day, on the site
of Maiden, which they found in ruins, the army had
landed in high spirits; but the enemy had aband-
oned their strong hold, and retreated to Sandwich,
after dismantling Malden, burning the barracks and
navy yard, and stripping the adjacent country of
hordes and cattle.
As Philip once more stood upon the site.of Mal-
den, the recollection of Lilly came fresh into his
mind. How different the appearance now. When.
here before, it presented a busy scene of active
life, where groups of British and Indians were seen
engaged in making mirthfulness and sport. Here,
too, his eyes first rested upon Lilly after a long and
painful absence-here on this field of ruins--even
where he now stands he had experienced emotions
of happiness, inexpressibly exquisite.
But now Lilly was secure in the care of her
father, while her captors and enemies were flying
fugitives. Proctor and Tecumsels and their pretty
minion, Montour, with his cowardly fellows were
retreating up the Thames before their pursuers.
,The troops of Harrison had advanced within
three miles of the Moravian town, within one mile
of the enemy.
On he 5th: they were discovered in a skillfully
chosen position. A narrow strip of dry land flank..
ed by the river Thames lay on their left, and a.
swamp on their right. This position was occupied
by the regular :infantry arid artillery, while on the
right    k lay Teeumseh and.his followers, on the'
east    margin of the swamp. The position  of
the enemy was the most judicious and advantageous;
bt, Proctor, through eror, had formed- isy ipfan-
try in pen order.-earrison immediately discover-
ed'1aiterror, and he directed Colonel Johnsond 1t
desh through the enemy's line in column, knowing,

I

1'Ii ER LIFE.

255

that the troops disposed in such order as Proptor
had made, could not resist the charge of mounted
men.
At the coniiand of their gallant leader, the
mounted men comufrienced the charge.
Behold with what impetuosity hey rush upon
the charging squadrons-even up to the, conne -i
mouth, and the flashing musketry, blazing 'forth
their fires of death-the melee of". horses- and
riders mingled with the roar of artillery, and the
shouts of infuria ted combattants, rushing upon
each other, changed that hitherto , silent forest
into a scene of excitement and daring and horror
that made many a heart turn cold. Next came the
piles of 'dead and dying, whose pitiful groans, re-
vealed a world of woe in their dying agonies.
The hiovement was .successful,--.and that firm,
solid earth rooted line was broken, and piles of
mangled .human flesh lay strewn: over the earth.
Upon the left the contest raged with, most despe-
rate and appalling severity.
There stood the exasperated savages unwilling
to yield the ground, while the cowardly Procter
had fled the field leaving. Tecumseh, and his, war-
*riors unprotected. They seemed.dtermined to
conqueror die. Brave fellows-! hehe tey stood
animated by their gallant leader, pouring d h
and destruction upon their white, assailants, while
around 'themlining men fell, at every disclrges
Tecumseh's voice is' the den of battle animating
his men to stand their ground-but the fire of
their enemies was growing too warm. - His warriors
were falling, around him-and he saw the tide 'of
battle' rollingagainst him.
" To, the: woods-to, the woods," shouted the ir
brave and daring leader; and the next moment
the Indians were seen flying across the hills to
seek shelter in a piece of woods on the left, fol-
lowed by the Americans. Here Tecumseh made


256              PIoNEa LIfE,
one more desperate effort. A considerable body
of Indians had collected here, and the struggle be-
cams desperate, and for a'few moments the victory
seemed doubtful.
Heie'again were seen flaunting .banners and
gaudy plumes waving and tossing in the air, while
the rattle of drdms, shouts of war mingled with the
roar of musketry; iaid above the heads of the ex-
abperated belliggerents, rose dense volumes of
black, sulphurousJ-smoke curling in heavy festoons
among the forest trees. The contest grows'warmer
still, and for a moment the field seems to be lost.
But no !--behold yonder moving cloud of advancing
wrriors--the weary eyes of Tecumseh gaze with
the most intense interest upon those moving ob-
jects.
"Indians, Indians," shouted the brave and ex-
cited Colonel, "steady nien, steady-all now de-
pends upori your valor."
Onward canie' the advancing band, with the speec
and eiergyof the rushing tempest and in a few
moments another voice rent the air, exclaiming.:
"'Tigthe gallent Beaver-courage men he comes
to joinyour anks," and ere the shout of joy lad_
died' away the gallant Chief threw himself into the
tide of  battliwith the ocean's mighty surge.
'Teetimeh 'ship fate, and calling upon his war-
rio 'bid them stand and die with their faces to-
wd'ds their enemy rather' than desert the ground,
anda iithe act of animating his noble'warriois,
ball pierced his body and he fell to rise no more.
The kdias ,no' longer heating  his' voice fled the,
fieldin confusion.
Thebattle isended and the field is left n posses-
sion of the' victorious Americans. The battle is
over and the two armies' have patted to'  tV nct
more.

I   1I:

CHAPTER XXXiX.
DEATH oF CAPT. MONTOUTR-:-PILIP VISITS CAPT. PIPE.
But merciful heavens! what a soul sickening
  picture lay before the victors -.all around are piles
of mangled human beings-some dead and spne
dying, while the ground, (strewn with the imple-
ments of war) is drinking up the warm current of
life.
Philip and his companions had been in the heat
of the battle, and strange to tell, had passe&amp; though
it all unhurt. On several occasions they had nar-
rowly escaped, but the demon of war had passed
them by.
Gazing upon the mangledbodies of friends and'
foes as they lay in pTromiscuous ples besmarel
withblood and powder, a sickening ,senstigncarme
oyer the soul of 'the tender heartdAlfrgd, apa he
wept.
"Philip, said he, as they sat side ky sigi corp-
p ny with Byfly, " watis undouptglygsmosVdlgart-
rending scourge-its effects are, airgertable aii
perniious beyond all humgn edlguapiogI. gwe
follo  its course up through ai  eJ agesnoa  h
wold, ieshali' find its prime object to have been ,

j    T t   t,


258           -htorn ERYE.
the elevation of military Chieftains, into noteriety
over the destruction of the human family. Look
at ,.e mad expedition of Xerxes against the Gre-
cians-the ambition of Alexander and his succes-
sors-the bloody contests between Rome and Car-
thage, called the Paunic wars-- the mad expeditious
of Csar and Pompey-the heart-rending scenes of
human suffering produced throughout Asia and
Africa by Mahomet, and the ferocious and hellish
butchers of the Christian nations by the devilish
Turks- I say when we call to mind all these, with
the many horrible and bloody butcheries of modern
times, in which innumerable cities, towns and vile
lageshave been laid waste-provinces and empires
overturned, and niisery and suffering entailed upon
countless thousands of the human race-we must
unequivocally pronounce war the most appaling
scourge which can befall any people or nation."
"Alfred," repliedPhilip," I am fully pursuaded
of the fruth of your remarks. But wars and rumors
of wars pvill exist, be they right or wrong, as long
as the principle of wrong remains in the human
heart. With you I have often deplored with all
the feelings of humanity, this mammoth evil. But
you or 'I ca not remedy 'it. We find it existing and
atteiptiing the destruction of our rights, and' true
t. the instiit "of self-preservation we are prompted
to defend outprivileges."
"Thee here ge tlemen," said Billy, who had his-
listened "verY attentively to the desertation of-
Alfred and Philip, "thee here, let me thpeak my
thetimenth of til h important question. I am for
wacr dod;blatht me ifI ain't, and thereth no uthe
of denying theFfact. I- came here for.the purpothe
of fig ting, and hangme for a traitor: if I don't car
ry out   prinif1tfl to all inteuth and purpotheths
I'l flht ePe thing tha theth me mad except a
wonian ad' a jikdak,%ndi dod blatht, my buttotith
if 'l ~re' a' ml froni theth tgo a.rinath

i

"Brilly's the chump." replied Philip, "he hates
any act that, would render either his moral or
physical nature obnoxious to society."
"I underthand yer," replied Billy, and wduld
thay that I'm obliged to yer, for the compliment.''
The young men, who had been seated upon -the
trunk of a tree, arose, and passing some distance
along the woods suddenly came upon the body of
a wounded Indian. He had fell wounded in the ac-
tion, aid dragging himself short 'distance, rolled
himself into a depression of earth made by the up-
heaval of a tree. Here lay the poor fellow, suffer-
ing under several flesh wounds.-On seeing our
heroes he cast upon them a pitiful look, and thus
addressed them in good plain english:
"Gentlemen, I am dying. My -span of life is at
its close. This beautiful world will sqoi be hid
from me forever. 1'Yhave fallen in lightning for the
plundered and despoil rights of the red man. I am
an Indian by birth, and an Indian in feeling.
In the early settlement of this country by the
whites the red man saw not what was to befall his
race, and he permitted him to settle among us. We
called him brother. But our fathers have been de-
ceived'; and we have been treated worse than the
brute creation. The earth was our mother and
upon her lap we reposed ; rude wigwams sheltered
us, and' satisfying our hunger and thirst we lay
down and slept, without iear or molestation, in our
forest home   In these homes our fathers were hap-
py. But ' the avaricious disposition of the white
man envie   us our happiness, and 'sought. our deg-
traction. We have been driven from river to river
and from laid to"land, and to-day you have follow.
ed 'us into" this wild forest with- your weapons of
death, 6ne of which hasiade me whit you now see
me; but I am fit sinkgaway-my asn issearly
set-."yoti#11 return to your homes-to your friends
and relations, I shall return to the earth from
TT

11

259

PTOi499R L1.


260 '        1PYONEERU LI 1.                     IZtELF.26

whence t came. One word with you before 1
leave.
.On the Black Fork of Mohican lied the noted
Captain Pipe,tonce my particular friend. He has
a beautiful daughter-I loved her ; she refused my
hand-I managed to steal her from her father-
again I proffered her my hand---but she scornfully
refused it-I threatened her with violence, but she,
defied all my threats and called upsen the curses of
heaven to rest upon me--that prayer was like a'
poisonous shalt sunken into my heart, and for a
moment I trembled under her solemn denunciation
and indignant frown,-Finding I could not gain her
consent to wed me,'I left her presence, hoping to
conquer her' at another period. On returning 1
found her gone ; this enraged me, and reckless off
of consequence I threw myself into'battle, determin-
ed to glut my vengeance on the white -race, from
whom her father and herself had sought protege'
tion.
It, may be, you may chance to see her or her
father-nay, I would say, you would confer upon
your dying enemy one favor, (though undeserving
of it,) by' sending to hinm who is now in Cleveland,
if yet living, my dying request for him and his' in-
sulted daughter to pardon me. This act alone is
all that niow troubles me. In fighting you'and your
race I have done my duty, but in tearing the young.
lady from  the protection of" her aged father to
whom she is bound by the closest ties of affection, I
have outraged the principles of a gentleman."
Philip was much moved at', this confession of'
Montour, for 'twas he who spoke, and taking him"
by his hand, besmeared wit  blood, he raised hun
off the ;ground, in order that he might gather some.
leaves under his body and- head.-Then addressing
him in the language of tenderness he said- -
4" Siry u shalt"die with knowledge of being
pardoned, I am acquainted with Caytain Pipe

i
t

'A

and his daughter.-- My name is Seymour, and my
residence formerly was on the Black Fork, near
Greentown, where my father's family were    all
murdered, save myself by your brethren--like yog
I vowed revenge--have sought and obtained it, antL
have the satisfaction of knowing that their murder-
ers met their just reward.-Like you sir, I have
thrown inyself into the midst of danger and excite-
ment, almost regardless of consequences.
I sir, am one of the deliverers of that young
woman of whom you speak, and these are my.com-
panions m the iunder-taking. We have traversed
the forests of Ohio in all directions in search of
her; we found her in the garrison of Malden, and
she is now happy under the protection of her
fther ; and now sir, I want you to understand that
you are forgiven. I speak what I kiiow-and if
Onishishsha were here she would lay her hand
upon your dying head, and say to you as her Divine
Master said'to his murderers, "Father forgive him,"
for Onishishsha is a christian.
4iTis enough," said the dying Indian, "my breath
grows short-it comes heavily on-darkness is
gathering around mie--my eyes are growing dim-.
the'objects of earth are receding from my sight-I!
am going-farew    "            T
"Its all over with -him,' said Philip, whose eyes
wore.dimmed with tears,; "poor fellow! he's gone
to join the company of his gallant comrades, and his
noble hearted commander, who this day have bid,.
their forest homes adieu forever."
"Poor, fellow !' said Alfred, whose heart during
this melancholy interview, was deeply touched by
the Indian's melting pathos. '"Poor fellow !' re-
peated he, "after all I cannot help mourning his
untimely fate-what a noble looking young war'
nrior--so much unlike his brethren-his language,
how beautiful, and his enunciation, even under the
pangs of death, how soft and clear. But his days

xoivr i a, zi r.                             261


262

?*IONThER LIFEI.

on earth are numbered, and hissprit bas one to
seek its rest."
Beyond the cloud capped hcavcns
In verdant groves, or winding vales,
or grassy plain-the red man's
Happy hunting ground."
Well, well, said Billy, who during this sorrow-
ful scene, had sat a sa silent spectator, and in whose
bosom also, the fires of compassion had been kind-
led-" I cannot but feel thorry too; after all I
think you  did right in thpeaking kindly to th is
Inthun."
"Yes Billy," said Alfred, "we must always re-
member the language. of our great commander liar-
rison, "that the revenge of a soldier cannot be grati-
fled on a: fallen enemy. Acts of kindness' under
such circumstances is the noblest revenge, as they
leave no unpleasant feelings behind them."
Thus ended the conversation, and the young
heroes again joined the soldiers in the camp where
the officers were making preparations to bury the
dead.
The day after the battle the American troops
took possession of the Moravian towns where they
found large quantities of such provisions'as they
stood in need of.
Among-the trophies of this battle were six brass
field pieces, surrendered by Hull, on two of which
was the uotto-" surrendered by Burgoyne at Sara-
toga."
The villages were found entirely desolated,. and
so panic struck were some of the squaws that they
threw their children into the river, to prevent them.
froi being butchered by the Amerians. For the
reason that the inhabitants of these towns had
beerloet active, in conmitting depredations igon
the frontier settlements, the soldiers reduced them
to ashes before leaving them.
This jrilliant- victory, in which Tecumseh was
slaing~put a cheek uipon the influence of the British
over theindianis and shortly -after Harrison's rea

I

263

turn to Detroit, the Ottawas, Chippewas, Pottawo-
tomies, Miamis and Kickapoos proffered their ser-
vices to the United States, offering their women
and children as hostages.
A few days after this battle, Philip and his com-
panions proceeded down the river Raisin, on their
way to the cavern of Captain Pipe, where he
safely arrived, without much difficulty, just as
the shades of evening were gathering over the
forest.
I  r3.
t~    r3

3,                                                     1
.3                  3.                     [~1"     I'

?Io 1EER LtF .


1'

CHAPTER XXXX.
MEETTING WITH JOHNNY APPLESEED.
"Thoy met again where Tolls the flood
01 waters down Sandusky's shore."
Immediately after the bloody battle of the Thames,
our heroes returned to the cave of Captain Pipe,
where they were joyfully received.by the old Indian
and his daughter.
The old man manifested much joy on hearing of
the brilliant victories of the American army, and
expressed it as his opinion that in the fall of the
notorious Tecumseh, fell the hopes and expectations
of the British arms in the west. And such was
really the fact;
On his return from the battle of the Thames,
General Harrison was met at Detroit by a delega-
tion of Indians, consisting of Ottawas, Chippewas.
Pottawatamies, Miamies and Kickapoos, begging
for a suspension of hostilities. They agreed to
take up the same tomahawk with the Americans
anid strike all who were or might be enemies of
the United States, and in order to prove their sin-

. I

r
f
s

PIONEER LIE.

cerity they offered their women and' children as
hostages.
From this period till the final close of the *war,
those Indians faithfully supported the American
cause, with as much ardor and zeal as they. ad
previously opposed it.
The consternation which had spread over te
west at the. commencement of the war, was now
gradually subsiding.  Indian depradations    re
less frequent, and the terror stricken-inhabitaints
were seen leaving .the Forts. and Block  oue , in
order to re-commence their farming operations.
But while a partial peace was smiling=oivr }the
North-West, the demon of :war,,was rollihg hi
chariot of death ovgr other partsof the eoutntry,
particularly along the Lake;and Sea coast.
Our heroes, after -their return from the Thames,
had made arrangements, for , joiningthe forces ut
der Gen, Scott,,b  finding that, the arny had in-
creased and that there w's -fo- lack, of soldiers,
they changed their opinion, and; concluded to 'spend
the winter with the Captain and 'his daughter.
The cave of Captain Pipe, as already noticed was
situated in a most delightful hunting country. It
was krown to but few, and those hardly evrtisit.
ed it, and .consequently, it was well calculated as a
safe retreat from marauding bruds of tIdialts It
was therefore agreed upon thatthis cave shouId be
their' head quarters during  the winter, should
they spend -i in the exciting pleasures of the
chase.                  r  t    .,  a"
Accordingly, in. a ferdays after 'their turn
from  the war, they had made every arrangement
necessary for the winter's hunting excursiom.
It was a beautiful morning  eyrds the close:of
October, when our'young lwroes efthncyvtf
Capt. Pipe 'for ther fir  tour: among the fre
jungles.                    '
On the third eveniing after dtarting they nanp

265


266          -    PloN1EEa LIPS:
ed on the banks of a beautiful clear running stream,
ae oa the principal tributaries of the Sandusky.
he.sitwatidn of the campwas, most beautiful one.
around wbre pictured-in liing characters, the
most enchanting loveliness.' having constructed
themelyes agrudeheler,: they kindled a fire, and
aer partapigof some food,' entered into conversa-
tion, the pa ticulars of which it 'is' not necessary
heretq .late.
Dpiing this bonversation, our heroes"were alarm-
ed bytloe su4den appearance of a solitarysingular-
Iygclad animlhaving the conf'ormation of a man,
who :u  ticedghadamade his'way into -their camp.
The snrpr4e wayud1en and unhooked for, and the
creature wasost bhantaistcaly dressed. He was
in its abate feet,s'which We' black within mud -his
ptdaledx remiities,'ee at least'eighten inches Eoo
long1 for  s breoh-.°e  a ound'his body hiung a
loosevgarment,*1ad' out' of a coffeesacka having a
la for.I his head,-and'ofre fot each arm. Dangling
aroul   i s shoulders ws- the tail of a fox 'whose
p7 (' red a- covering for hishead. Such wa' the
app ea rnee of this singu lahuman creature On
s   g=ghimm/Billy sprang behind a tree, eelaiming:
"Th" g jb;afsht hith ugly picturth, if+' thith haint
the  bfohtth'effget out 'of 'hith road or by
gi g 1ou   thmeill thulphtr fore two thecondth."
'   ath next moment' 'the mystery was solved,
and1bforeaheni stood the eccentric and good na-
tured Johnny Appleseed.
"Mr. Chapman. exclaimed the astonished Pilip,
t   tjwename'of Heaven lMrChamand ihocamie
you here?'     '
Butbefere Joh ny iould answer Philip, Eunty
Billy had prifg from behind thetree, nd cltsic
ipg-b hhiy byTfle hdexclaile :
"Ithe badly beat Mr, ~apan, cont1ernyer. I
withthure~ yet sath the devil himself. Your

I

267

1

i

thomewhat more thanged in yer lQokth than uth-
ual."  At this moment Alfred came up to Philip,
whereupon he introduced Johnny to his friend,
who had stood gazing in mute astonishment upon
this odd specimen of human nature.
After the joy and excitement produced by the
appearance of Johnny had subsided, 'the friends
gathered around the camp fire, when Johnny rela-
.ted the history of his adventures since he had left
his friends on the Black Fork.
"Gentlemen," said Johnny, in commencing the
narration of history, "1I am thankful to the Great
Giver of ever good and perfect gift, that we have
been spared to see each other's faces once more.
But since we last met together, our lives have
been crowded with sorrow and disappointment. We
have been made to drink of the bitter cup of affig-
tiori. You Mr. Seymour, have undergone oneof
the most severe trials that can come within the
experience of human life. In one short hour you
were made a homeless and friendless stranger.
On hearing of the outrage on Black Fork I repair-
ed thither imraediately-I was in Mt. Vernon at
'the time the murder of your friends' occurred.
The news of this transaction produced a' high
state of excitement among the whites. Spies were
sent out in all directions to watch, the movements
of the savages.
On reaching the settlement, I found every cabin
tenantless, and on calling at the Block House at
Beam's Mill, I found that most of the families had
taken refuge there  I made inquiry concerning
you and Billy, but no one could give me any satise
factory account of you after .the burgl of your
'friends ; no one. had seen you since. t then 'let
the-Block House and repaired to the scene of the
murder, with feelings of most bitter anguish; and
as I gazed upon your father's cabin, (where but a'
few weeks~ ago all was peace -andI happiness) and

PIONEVF LLFFV


PIONEER L1PE.

saw the work of the .destroyer, I felt more deeply
th ndver the solemn truth that all that's mortal
mst decay      Ab, sir, to me that cabin looked de-
s61te andf dreary-its walls were silent as the
grave ; and with the exception of yourself its once
happy inmtes were now resting in peace under
thegreen sod that lines the banks of the rippling
aties, along which their mangled remains were
degdsitede Ah ! sirs,'as I gazed upon that sacred
spot, I remembered that the spirit of at least one
of the silent sleepers there was feasting -upon the
rich-manna of heaven--and though I wept over the
grge of myyoung disciple, yet I rejoiced to know
that her. sufferings were forever past, and that
she wold be, a star in my crown of glory in the
spiritaland.:
.After spendinga few hours here, I directed my
way to Mansfield, nd on arriving there I found'the
inhabitantsm'ina high state of excitement concerning
tke outrage on Black: Fork. Orders were given to
shoot every straggling Indian found in the woods.
I zeained a, few days in the Block House at Mans-,
fiand then returned to Mt. Vernon where I spent
the winter. On the return of Spring I visited my
n series wpich lay scattered along the different'tri-
butries of the Mohicain. Having bestowed upon
thern the requisite attention, -[resolved to open up,
or extend my sphere of usefulness. Accordingly
I found my way to this region of Ohio, where I
have hkeenfor several months past planting nurse'
ries. As U lay in camp a few hundred yards up
thi stream I saw the light of your camp-fire ; and
wishiungto know who you were L came down the
stream, under cover of darkness, and recognizing
your voice, :entered your camp, taking you by
surprise.',
"Yes, aund by hokey," said Philip, " the surprise
was'. ost complete."
'Well,"mpid Johnny, "have you ever heard any-
thing of our friend Captaig Pipe ?"

4

268

S
j

269

"Heard from him ?" ejaculated Philip. "Cer-
tainly-l left his residence but a few days ago!"
"Ah ! indeed," said Johnny," "then he is in
Cleveland yet."
'"No, Mr. Chapman, not there. Let me think--1
believe you have not heard of the deep affliition
through which the old man was called to pass after
his arrival in Cleveland."
" No, sir," replied Johnny  "has any misfortune
befallen him ?"
"Yes, Mr. Chapman, replied Philip, and then re-
lated to him the particulars of' Lilly's abduction,
and her rescue from the garrison at Ft. "Malden.,
"Poor child !" said Johnny, "I will see her 'im-
mediately. I will visit her once more, and . ask
the protection of the Great Spirit to be thrown
around her."
" Such a visit," replied Philip "would indeed, be
most cheering to both the - Captain and Lilly.
They often speak of you, and wonder where you
are, and what' you are doing. They had almost
come to the conclusion that you had been murder-
ed by some of the sav:res."
" Well," .said JoLnny, "we will lay down and
take our rest, and in the morning we will return
to the cave ; and thus ended the conversation for
the present, and the little company lay down to
seep.
Morning came, but before the golden sun had lit
up the dark forest, the company were on their way
to the cavern, which they safely reached the next
day about nightfall.
On entering' it, the first object that met his gaze
was his young disciple Lilly. Philip and his com-
panions- had remained outside, until Johnny had
surprised the Captain and his daughter, after which,
and just in time to witness the manifestations of
joy, they also entered.
"Mr. Chapman !" exclaimed the young maiden,

PIONS. LIFE


270               r-oHEER LIFE.

"God bless the dear child," replied Johnny, at
the same time grasping her delicate hand in his.
"God bless the dear child." repeated he, with tears
in his eyes; and for a moment he stood gazing re-
verently upon the lovely young creature.
,Capt. Pipe, who was reclining upon his pallet of
skins in another department, on hearing Lilly men-
tion the name of Mr. Chapman, sprang to his feet
and the next moment stood before his friend.
"Mr. Chapman," exclaimed the Chieftain, "you
are welcome here."
"Captain," replied Johnny, "we meet at this
time under singular circumstances. But the ways
of Providence are truly wonderful, and in many
instances, incomprehensible to us short sighted
creatures. Since we last met, you indeed have met
with much sorrow ; but I am rejoiced to know that
you are now comforted.

1

CHAPTER XXXXI.
CAPT. PIPES INTERVIEW WITH JOHNNY APPLESEED--DISCLOs
URES RESPECTING LILLY'S ORIGIN-ITS EFFECTS UPON THE
MIND OF ALFRED.
But it is not necessary to tax the reader's patien-
ce with a recital of the conversation which passed
between the members of that happy circle on.that
interesting occasion. Suffice it to say, that their
conversation  related principally  to the happy
scenes of other days.
On the next morning Cap. Pipe and Johnny re-
tired some distance from   the cave, and seating
themselves upon the ,trunk of i fallen Iree, com-
menced a low yet earnest conversation, "Mr. Chap.
man," said the Captian," you are aware, I suppose,
that Lilly and, Mr. Seyxnour, have formed an at-
tachmnent for each other :-and I suppose from what
Lilly has said.to me, will be married in a few days.
Well I have taken this occasion to hold ' :private
interview with you" respecting the origin of her,.
whom most people suppose to be my real daughter
Youtand Mr. Seymour have long since been aware

f
i
f

5


PIoNEEa LIFE.

that she is not my real daughter. Sir," continued
the Chieftain, Lilly is, the real sister of the com-
panion of Mr. Seymour, young Bradley?
"Impossible !" exclaimed Johnny in much as-
tonishment, "Impossible" continue he, looking full
into. the Captains face, unable to give credence to
his words-" By no means," replied the Captain,
"it is even so, Lilly Pipe is none other than Anne
Bradley, the sister of Alfred Bradley now in the
cavern."
"Captain," replied Johnny," I beg your pardon,
for the insult offered you in discrediting your
word, but you really astonish me: yet, in this I
learn another lesson of God's goodness to his dear
creatures-How strange are the ways of Providen-
ce-At this moment Alfred is talking to her, whom
he supposes to be now in the Spirit world. God in
his goodness has brought them together, yet they
know it not, and so saying Johnny relapsed into
silence, overwhelmed by his feelings; and had the
reader been standing by on this occasion, he would
have seen tears of joy rolling down the sunburnt,
and weather beaten cheeks of that tender hearted
child of nature.
1Mr. chapman," replied. the Chieftain-you
weep--but your tears are those of joy. Listen and
I will tell you now-"
The next year after the treaty at Greenville
(17,) a, party of whites landed at the mouth of
Conneaut Creek about the middle of Summer,a
lovelier place was nowhere to be. found. After re-
maiing here for a while they left. A few families
however; remained over minter there, did not be-
long to the party which first landed,-but emigrated
here in the fall. One of these was the family of
Mr.1Bradley.
At thig time Black Ioof and myselfwere on a
'isit i lthisregion,Vand on paying by this ,locality
fogd' it settli4 wigyhsevgrali he fmes  The

272

273

appeared cheerful and happy, though in distitute
circumstances. We remained with them oer night.
The next morning we started home. On entering
the woods about a half' mile from the cabins we
came upon two white children who had, as usual
wandered some distance up the stream to play.
They had on this occasion, however, wandered far-
ther way from their cabins than was usual-and
had become bewildered. We rode up to them, and
found that they were lost, we asked them if they
wanted to go home; the elder replied, yes, I then.
took up the smaller one on my horse while Black
Hoof took the elder. Poor creatures, they sobbed
and cried fit to break their little hearts, we pitied
them, and were about turning back to take them
to their homes, when Black Hoof' urged that we
should carry them home with us and'adopt them in
our families. The suggestion was agreed to, and
we departed with our prisoners : and in due time
arrived. at our villages-Black Hoof adopted his
into his family, and I named mine Onishishska and
adopted her into my family. She was afterwards
called Lilly as you have heard, Lilly at the time of
her capture was just beginning to talk, from which
circumstances I judged she was About three Sum-
mers old-her companion was some older, as was
apparent from her size and speech.'
After a few weeks Lilly became reconciled to
her lot,, and grew cheerful and merry. She was
handsome, and I loved' her because she was so
playful and kind. As she grew older she became
more attractive, and learned to love me with the
fondness of a child. Igave heriall the iiistfuction
in my power, as you have been informed
And now, I deem it my 'duty to give her' up into
the care of her lover end' brother, and attone in
some measure for the wrong which I have done her
.relations.
ilere the old man busied his face in his hanida

I of L  Et UPIR "


2714               PoNEE LIFE.
and remained silent for a moinent. It was evident
his feelims had overcome him, Johiny had sat
silent and pensive, tears had coursed their way
down his cheeks ; but commanding his feelings, he
thus addressed the old Indian.-.
"eCaptain Pipe, you seen deeply affected in re-
conthin the past; but these scenes are over, and
we live in the present. You did wrong in taking
the child from'its home, but you have done right
in bringing it up under good ,and wholesome . in-
struticons-you invited me to your cabin-I came,
and always found you- ready to supply my wants,
besides you always manifested a strong desire that
I should teach Lilly the manners and customs of
the whites, and almo the English language, I have
done s, and am fully rewardedto find that her young
heart is under the .influence of .virtuous princi-
ples
 Thank God, though Lilly was torn from her home
i herinfantiledays, and forced to the perils and
privations of a life in the woods;; yet her future is
openand, bright to her vision. She imagines herself
homeless and friendless, save her generous protect-
But in a mnolient when she least expects it,
unilooked for flood of joy and happiness will be
hersi and she in fullness of her young heart, will
take him by the hand and say welcome ;dearest'
brother, welcome to the lone heart of your long
lost sister.
Oh   t wi a. happy, happy meeting it wjll be:
-wdri { pLyrher double;for all, she has suffered,
Sso sayligg Jgohany wiped the tears from his
ey,    it  9p  n taking hold  f his hand,
pressed iV warrnlyg exclaitning-A good man, a
= 9fG94 Idove you mnore~thani everm and now
in cql uion per t jme toasay to you that it is my
M 12%U98Q Yqo4P gm~e ltig ma~erknogwn to
Mr. Symour, Aitedand Lilly, when you gurn to
~'4 ~ / 4n4g4        4

PIONEER LIPE;               25

I shall never inhabit that cave again. In it I
have, spent many sad and gloomy moments, as
well as happy hours. But my days on earth are
short, and i shall soon follow my sires to the Red
man's happy hunting grounds. . Tell Lilly her
Captor and protector Cap. Pipe, has vouchsafed;
the blessings of the Great Spirit upon her, that in
the company of her white friends and relations,
she will be happy-Tell her I go to join My kind-
red, and lay my bones. among those of my red
brethren-Tell Mr. Seymour that I consign into his
care my much loved Lilly, the jewel of my heart
and the idol of my old age-tell him that I would
have him love and protect her-tell him to remem-
ber the admontion I gave him at our last interview-
he will understand you.
Give my compliments to Mr. Bradley-beg him
to forgive Poor Old Captain Pipe, for the wrong
which I have done his family-tell him I would not
see him after making known the facts respecting
Lilly's origin. I am now done and-"
" But," ..enquired Johnny," had you not better
see them all before you leave !"
As you think best replied the Captain," and the
two companions started for the cave, which after
bidding the company a "good bye,' he left never
to return again. The Captain's departure had
been expected by Philip and Lilly: as =he had pre-
viously spoken to them on this point; and, although
they could not comprehend his reasons. for thus
leaving them, yet they had no. idea that his depart-
ure was a final one. On leaving them ,Philignoti
ced that as he shook hands with Alfred he seeie4
sonexvhar confused, aid on taking the hand of Lii.
ly.his eyes were suffused with tears.
The company stood gazing upon. the ,receding
fornof the Old:man, untillosttosaight in the deep
foreddhen returning they enteredthe cavern iR
order tomake arrangemaatsifor the futuire-


"j

~276             PINmR -L1P e
-'I cannot account for the old man's singular Con-
duct in thus leaving us so abruptly said Alfred,
aftermath company had seated themsel es in the
caern:-
llehas gone out upon some important mission
responded Philip.s
t ismy opinion," replied Lilly that he will
not return lre any more-though I am unable' to
di'inethe cause for his departure.
" Children !" said Johnny, -and all eyes were
turned uprofhim-c Children" repeated he, "Ican
explin it all." Whereupon Johnny gave his com-
baitn some of the particulars which passed be-
tw~eehim and Captain Pipe while in the woods to-
geher, but said nothing concerning the abduction
ofLilly and her playmate.
OGn hearing that the Captain hAd left them  for-
ever, Lilly burst into a flood of tears, and for some
momentswept:in silence ; and in truth, she was
notealone, for-there were -other hearts who loved
him also.-"He's gone," sobbed Lilly, and left me
alone-here in the dreary wilderdnuss-far from
friends and  -"
"Say not ao dearest Lilly, interrupted Philip ; if
they Caphtai  has left you, the arm of Philip Sey-
nmoi shall be your defence, and his #ffections "shall
hegyour future home; Nay, nay, thou'rt not forsa-
ken,.deare.t Lilly, dry up those tears, and trust 'in
t    +e odaof shy fathers, and the stormsof life shall
pads hamdeaslys by you,"
o i whohad been: looking on, a silent specta-
tthugh not an unfeeling 'one, after wiping the
te'"s'from his eyes, thus addressed the young wo-
Thay mithuth Lilly dont frit; nothing. i}hthea
thape of men ordevilththall lay a fi gr upontycur
gerwrde Bunty Bily can draw robead Qo1mpull
Stuiggarg andt cans anurk youj Upon tetitmong
of gfr. dherer, hat'Iani homne'at:  long threat

PiONE B, LIF3            J '
and more at a thot not tho long, and most in a
hand to hand=struggle,"
Although Lilly's feelings were pensive, and" her
heart deeply smitten with sorrow at.parting-with
him whom she had been taught to callfather; yet
she could not help smiling, though tears were stand-
ing in her eyes, at the earnestness and assurance
with which Billy had addressed her.
After Billy had spoken, the whole company as-
sumed a more composed and cheerful aspect. John=
ny Appleseed, now concluded to communicate to
the company the disclosures of the Captain..
"Y Children," said he, "L want your'attention ;t
have news for you-news, which perhaps, ill as=
tonish you, and which you will scarcely credit, but:
which though almost incredible- is nevertheless
true. 'Mr. Bradley, Miss' Pipe is your Sis" -"
But before he could finish his -sentences young
Bradley, uttered an exclamation of " MetifulHe -
vens I" and fell to the earth :insensible * Lill Y d
seeing him fall, also gave vent, to piercing lhrieksi
and for a-moment stood gazing upon th' lifele #
form of young Bradley.-.
" le'sdead," sohed the young 'oma; .No m o
replied Philip he will' reeover-it is ai9ky  sW
a sudden rush of"blood'to the head.
Restoratives wire applied, and'th  yong  n
recovered in afewmouent . After b  eiingo-
scions htega daadro bdfor a8meht%'ad     i
Lilly a few feet from him  eP     h   a
wardsher, andcdlasping hergtld hbih osn N ifN
ed-My dearest-dearest sister," his t r id4 *ib
obstructed, and the brother and sister sobbed
aloud--moments passed away yet the fond brother
and sister clung, to each other as though chained
by the spell of some enchanter.
Philip and Billy stood looking on evidently be-
wildered, and almost doxgbting the reality ?0 W
scn around them,

r .


2't8               flONUIR .L1Ff.

At length the young man spoke once more. "It
is Anne-it is Anne repeated he-" Oh Anne well
do remember you in your 'infant days, but you
carint remember me. How much you look like our
nother-dear mother-now in heaven---shining
amid=the saints of light, and -I have no doubt at
thigh moment gazing upon this strange meeting of
brother and-sister after an absence of long years--
Oh Anne you are the very picture of that dear Saint.
I thought so when Ifirst saw you, and now I know
it. Oh!God  how thankful ought I to be for such
happiness-long years have passed away since I
beheld youlast, thenbut an infant, the pride of our
dear father azd the idol of your lone brother-now
you haoe grown to womanhood, and we meet in the
primeof live."
During this brief but solemn andheartfelV offer
ing of gratitude, to the God of Mercy, Philip-and
his o manion were standing by, gazing upon the
a~ei g scene; 4eeply moved, weeping and, inex-
pressibly happyin knowing that Alfred had fund
his, long lost siter.
But to describe minutely this affecting scene is
tm1hane.can=dpylanguage can convey but a
e es*iption of thathappy meeting. At length
ver   thingbecame   Ore traiquil,and Johnny
4Ap~esedrelated thefull particulars of Lilly's
hii ag            f ii drom t heCaptain, stating that
for~ tfz      he would not see Mr.Bradley. But
Ai reMMdy/n dhye orgiven him, and Lilly would,
hey eha4 u~caefor she loved him, and would
hvef le him.               d

CHAPTER XXXXII.

LILLT'B VISIT TO -11UU2 VAQIN -4IXAI10 ASFLdEGT1QI1
BIN ---WHI+JR iARRJAGIB-,&amp;O.

AT  G)

At her own native cottage
The wild woody along
'Twas here ashe had rainbled
o hear the bird's dong ."

V4 a u  sv oes&amp; 4}vat  t 4,   t
Aft'Mr.,Chapman had regaled the     ntdiise
of Captain Pipe respecting Li11 ir i  fkid
.ig  aured, that the old: hi:ftainsiper.
again return, Philipcalled to'mindr hisonversa
to him respecting a certain leat   ,fit
the cave which bheishedebhim 40 de
mentioning thiis 10 Johngf, he ingritied 1it1
the Captain, had shown hiDithidesileal
Accordingly the conpanyrpaive dto'the
and after excavating the boxfedriit ri
together with abrif istorygef lllfra e
lye amount of gold and silyeei ;owun+ 
whichhle ordered to bedeliered   i  y ftIs
we                    T.  . f  wl,
eThe reade uuy  iW!sp]teizaV
. 1  _     ! r a rS,_  r s  _i'kit u'p       2t. e  d '  a    (t t''M I     F .

278

/r       .,
t                .

.

s
;
t


I XoWiER LIrE.                 281

were now no little astonished on beholding this
treasure,-
"Lilly," exclaimed Billy, "it ith yourth-all
yourth, and hang me for a story if you haint en-
ough to buy half a dosthen of thuch felloth ath
Philip.
"No, no," replied Lilly, much amused at Billy's
expression-It is. not all mine-see here, there
(handing him several gold coins and a couple of
ornaments,) are yours."
"Thank you-thank you," said Billy, and for
your dithtinguithed kindneth, permit me to with
you and Philip much happineth when the time
cometh round to do tho."
Ah ! Billy replied Philip, your dreaming again.
"What! about thaketh," replied Billy.
" Confound you and the snakes," cried Philip, I
expect you'l haunt me through all eternity with
the remembrance of those days of snake memory.
On returning to the cave, Lilly divided the valu-
ables equally among her companions, but Johnny
refused taking any. Arrangements were next
discused for paying one more visit to the home-
steads upon the Black Fork. Accordingly. horses
were procured and in a few days every thing was
got in readiness for starting.
It was towards the middle of October, one beau-
tiful morning, when our heroes left the cave for
the Black Fork. All were mounted upon horses,
fiery and full of animation. Philip was appointed
the leader or Captain. Before leaving the cave,
the party bowed respectfully, to that subteranean
refuge, and left in silence. It had been the home
of one of the noblest spirits that roamed this for-
' est, and it had been the refuge of one of the rarest
flowers of the wilderness.
It is needless to describe the incidents of their
journey to the Black Fork. Of course it was attend'
ded with that joy and' hilarity peculiar to all such
excursions.

_'.7
::.i
,r
;.sl
1
M1li
'
.«2
' ,
?A
:':1i
a !
' [
-J
a,
7
. l
+,
'
a'
'
_::d
I
id
-,
t
L-
i
t
i
v
F
t
t
1 ,
3
a
s

Towards the close of the second day after leave-
ing the cave, the company found themselves at the
door of what once was the domicil of Capt. Pipe, and
the home of the affectionate and tender hearted
Lilly. There had she spent the days of her child-
hood and the sight of her old homestead brought
up in her mind the 'early associations of life. As
the shades of night were setting in upon the forest
it was agreed that the company should spend the
evening in the cabin : accordingly the horses were
made fast within an enclosure, and supplied with
grass, of which there was an abundance around the
house, and after preparing themselves with some
refreshments, the little company seated themselves
around the bflizing fire and entered into a conver-
sation upon the scenes of the past. Each member
of that interesting group had his own story to tell,
but none was so touching as Lilly's.
'She was now once more under the roof of her once
happy cottage home, on the banks of her loved and
romantic Black Fork.
The poet when seeking a theme for his loftiest
verse, will-turn with affection and pride to his early
home, where first he felt the divine inspirations of
poetic fire, where first he roamed the wild wood, or
listened to the warbler's note, gleaning something
around which he might weave with God-given pow-
er, his glowing fancies.
It matters not if the home be lowly, love and-
poetry will find sweet music in the babbling rivu-
let--affections within the cottage wall-every
breeze that trembles, every flower that lifts its, cha-
lice to the sun, and every bird that warbles its
gladsome lay, brings to us reminescences of early
home. The memories of home will find a cahn de-
light in the hour of sun set, when the King of day
is slowly sinking behind the western hills, and
pouring his unclouded blaze of light on all surroun-
ding objects-AAh, yes, and when the weary exile

280                PIONEER LIVE


PIONEER LIFE.

is riding far over the world of waters, along some
distant shore, the beams of the sinking sun, rest-
ing upon the hushed deep, or gilding the green
billows and sending back to the eye, an increased
radiance, will bring to mind the brightness and
cherished glories of the home of his youth.
Thoughts of our early home will crowd upon the
mind wherever we may roam, and when after a
lapse of years we revisit the sacred spot, what deep
emotions fill our minds. Who that has visited the
home of his youth has not felt that time, and dis-
tance has lent enchantment to the spot.
Such, were the reflections that passed through
the mind of Lilly, as she sat gazing upon the va-
cant wall of that forest cot, once the home of her
youth.
There, and within this rude enclosure had she
often sat upon the knee, and by the side of him,
whom she called father, and listened to his simple
tales of Indian life-here too, she had often ming-
led in the company of her dark eyed forest com-
panions, had rambled.- thl them along the grassy
and flower decked banks of the rippling stream-
here, and under the cool shade of the forest, she
had often and often listened to the music of the
feathered songsters ; here, and upon this grassy
lawn, she had time, and time again, gazed upon
the sinking sun, until his last, golden rays rese
high along the distant hills, and left the shades of
night to follow in their wake--There too had she
sat in other days, looking up in the dark dome
of heaven, and watching as she supposed the
Great Spirit lighting up the heavens, with his cel-
estial fires, manifested in the appearance, one
after another of the brilliant stars.
Lilly was a child of nature, which in all its depths
was replete with music to her soul-She saw a
beauty and heard a music in the stillness of the
twilight hour, and in the voice -of the balmy

282

t
;,
3
y
i
Y
Y
S
L
f
}

PIONEER LIFE

breeze, as it sighs amid the stirring leaves of the
starlit grove, or reposing upon the unruffled bosom
of the placid waters-She had heard and realized
that there was music in the glad songsters of the
grove ; and felt that there was the voice of the
Great Spirit in the mutterings of the pealing thun-
ders above -or on earth-in the out spread skies
and in the invisible air-in the solitary dell, or
upon the gentle hilltop-in the ever changing glo-
ries of the footstool of the Almighty, or among the
ever burning celesteai lights, which gem the high
firmament, and light the angels to their evening
orisins, in all, through all, and over all, as though
from ten thousand times ten thousand harps, she
heard the sweetest melody, pouring from earth, air
and the heavens; all conspiring to make her forest
home the abode of happiness. in short, may we
not add that in those palmy days this music was
the atmosphere of heaven to her innocent spirit,
and that she looked upon the green crested earth
and the star spangled heavens, as the lyre of the
Great Spirit, whose strings were touched by him
alone; sending out strains of Divinest melody.
Thus sat Lilly for some moments, in a kind of
dreamy listlessness, while thoughts of other days
were passing through her mind. She looked a-
round. for her father, but he was not there, his
voice was not heard among the voices there. How
changed, even the old cabin seemed to mourn his
absence. Months and years had passed since her
first recollections of this sacred cot, and now for
aught she knew, she had taken refuge in it for the
last time. Tears filled her eyes, and rising from
her seat she made her way to the grove, a few
steps in the rear of the cabin, where in other days
she had often sat musing upon the beauties of the
glowing landscape around. The sun was just hiding
his golden face behind the tree tops, and his glow-

283


284        H~ON   W 61                      ~O~E                          IF               8

ing beams came streaming through the forest trees,
in long lines of golden light -
The sight of a setting sun is glorious at all times,
but to Lilly, on this occasion, it was a melancholy
sight. How often in other days had she beheld that
same sun setting, in cloudless glory behind the
same forest trees, had heard the same hum of noct-
urnal insect choristers, chiming their evening lays
to Luna, the bright queen of the stilly night, and
with what joyous emotions, and kind good feelings,
had she sat in this same shady bower conversing
with her red faced companions, of coming life and
future prospects.
There flowed the same beautiful stream, here
stood the-same forest, now clothed in garments of
mourning, as the chilling frosts of autumn, cold win-
ters precursor, were beating heavily upon it, here
stood the same cottage, around which were grow-
ing the same plants and wild flowers, which, in
other days she had woven into boquets for some
loved one.
Musing upon the past, she thus sat, for some time,
until aroused by the voice of Alfred calling her to
the cabin.
Returning to the cabin she found the company
preparing to retire to rest.
Lilly lay down upon her pallet of skins, but could
not close her eyes in sleep. Visions of the past
haunted her mind-Long, long days had passed
away since last she had closed her eyes in sleep in
this lone cottage; here she was once more, under
the same roof, which had sheltered her in her in-
fancy from many a rude tempestuous wintry storm,
but the heart in whose affections she had lived for
years, was not with her, it was the first night she
had ever spent in that cabin without him; and this
though seemed to rend her young heart assunder.
She wept bitterly, and in weeping found relief-.
Hours thus passed until overcome, she fell asleep,

from which she did not awaken until aroused by
the voice of her brother calling her to their morn-
ing meal.
Lilly arose, more cheerful than when she lay
down on the preceeding evening, and after saluting
her companions, begged them to excuse her drowsi-
ness. She expressed herself much refreshed, and
commenced preparations for the day's journey.
Towards the middle of the day, the party (which
had left the cabin about 9 o'clock that morning,)
arrived in front of the door of the Seymour cabin.
Philip's mind was deeply affected on once more
gazing upon his former home, and the scenes of
the past were called afresh into his memory.
Having secured their horses in the stable, the
whole company entered the cabin. Like the form-
er its walls were vacant, and silent-Once the
abode ofjoy and happiness, now silent and tenant-
less. A deep solemnity rested upon the minds of'
that little company, and for some moments not a
word was spoken. At length, Philip, who had been
gazing upon the naked walls for some moments, in
deep and solemn reflection broke the silence.
" Friends," said he. and his bos m heaved with
deep emotion-" I sand once more upon this blood
stained floor. I look around me, but I see not
those with whom  I associated in early life--This
rude domicil once contained two as cheerful and
happy hearts as ever sent the red current of life
through the veins of living mortals ; but, alas one
of these is no more. Under. yonders shady tree,
on the banks of that murmuring stream, repose
her last remains-the other now mourns her sad
and untimely fate."
"Ah !" replied Johnny, such is. human life.--Like
the flower, it fades and dies.-All thats mortal
must decay-nothing is real here, all is fitfull, fleet-
ing changing, and passing away. Dangers stand
Vhick around us, and sometimes when least expect-

285

284

MONEER LIB


286               on       .                 PIONEER LI

ed, mortals are cut down in a moment. But here,
(taking a Testament from his bosom) here is the
hope of our Salvation and immortality-In this
blessed volume we are told the righteous shall
live forever-then, Mr. Seymour, why mourn her
exit from earth-She lives in a holier and happier
clime. I have seen the righteous die ; but I have
never seen an end to the mercy of the Redeemer-
it fades not, neither does it die. Tis true we are
under the influence of natural affection, and this
often times leads us to mourn when we should re-
joice."
"Tis all true, Mr. Chapman," replied Philip, I
am aware that we must all soon pass into another
state of existence ; yet fond recollection lingers
arround the sacred Spot where love reposes. To
those who never knew a sister's love, and have
never wept over a sister's grave, such feelings as I
now possess, they have never realized. True the
Poet has said.
When memory fondly lingers near
The silent grave where love reposes
And sheds with burning eye the tear,
On the pale wreath of withered roses
Some Seraph formin brightness clad,
Comes to dispell the gloom of sorrow
Bids the lone mourners heart be glad,
And whispers "She will wake tomorrow."
"Yes," replied Johnny, although I am not much
inclined to favor poetical quotations in religious
affairs, yet I must acknowledge this a true speci..
men of poetic truth-" She will wake tomorrow-
cheering thought."
There the conversation ended, and the whole
company bent their steps to the graves of their pa-
rent and sister of Philip, and also that of the gal-
lent Ruffner.
There said Philip, pointing to the graves of his
sires, lay the remains of my unfortunate parents.
"Peace to their ashes, and rest to their Souls,"
responded Johnny,
" And here," said Philip, lie the remains of poor

Kate"-and bending over her grave tears fell fast
from his eyes upon the cold sod, that covered her
from his sight. By his side stood the beautiful
Lilly, hanging upon the arm of her brother, ming-
ling their tears with those of Philip.
And- there said Philip, pointing to the remaining
grave, lies the mangled body of the heroic Ruffner,
who fell cut to pieces defending the bodies of those
alongside of whom he now sleeps."
Billy on seeing the grave of his master, threw
his body down upon it, and for a moment wept in
silence-he loved him, for Ruffner, had been more
like a father to him, than a master.
"Ah," said Billy, while tears fell fast from his
eyes, thith ith my mathterth latht rethting place.
I almotht with I wath lying by hith thide--and so
saving he sobbed alcud-Biliy, had passed through
dangers by night and by day, and by land and by
water-he had seen death strew the earth around
him, but never before was he so deeply moved.
Come, come, Billy said Alfred dry up those tears,
your master sleeps in peace---he has fought his last
battle, in defence of the helpless and innocent, and
future generations will mark the sacred spot where
the gallant dutchman fell-a monument will yet be
erected to his memory, and future generations will
visit his grave, and read the history of his untimely
fate."
After remaining some time at the graves of his
friends, Philip and his companions, returned to the
cabin, where they spent the night. It was the last
night that ever that company spent together on
the Black Fork.
During the remainder of the day, arrangements
had been made for visiting their friends in Penn-
sylvania. A pressing invitations was extented to
Johnny and Billy to accompany them. But they
refused, Johnny alleged that it was his duty to re-
main in the wilderness, until his mission was ended,

PIONEER LIFE.            287


288                        LIONEERLFY.2.

and Billy expressed a deep anxiety to accompany
Johnny, out west, at least as far as to Wappukonoetta
viliage.  It was therefore settled that the next
morning Philip and Alfred and his sister, would
start for Pennsylvaina, and Johnny and Billy would
return to the west--Night passed away and morn-
ing dawned.
As soon as the light of day, had broke over the
forest, the company were astir making prepara-
tions for the journey. The hour of separation
come ; and the scene which followed, we cannot
describe-old and tried friends were now to part-
part,,in all probability, to meet no more.
"Billy," said Philip, as he grasped him by the
hand, "it is hard to part with you--gou, who to
Mr. Bradley and myself, have been the master of
our sports and pleasant hours. In parting with
you Icannot but express a wish that your true and
generous heart never fall a prey to the tempter's
snare."
"Amen," replied Johnny who stood listening to
Philip's admontion with eyes sparkling with kind
go od feeling -" Amen," repeated he, Mr. Seymour
I feel that you speak the words of truth and So-
berness." Having shaken hands with all, Billy
advanced to where Lilly was standing, and taking
her by her soft atid delicate hand, said in a most
manly and dignified tone of voice-
"MithuttLilly I motht heartly congratulate you
on the accession of 'a new brother, and with two
thuch brave hearth ath hith and Philip'th, you are
thave even in a den of all the thnakes in the uni-
verth, and with thith knowledge I can then more
readily withdraw my protective arms from yer"
"Bravo, bravo," shouted Philip and Alfred with
one voice, while tears fell from their eyes.
Long live Bunty Billy, the-" Hero of Wappa-
konetta," cried Lilly, her full heart overflowing
with gratitude to the young backwoodsman. But

ere the echo of these voices had died away, the
parties had separated, one on their way to the east,
the other to mingle among the wild scenes of the
wilderness.
-CONCLUSION.
Years had passed away since the party above
described ,had parted on the banks of the Black
Fork. Each having looked upon the other for the
last time.
Towards the close of a beautiful Summer evening
in the year 1847, a stranger, stricken with years,
and in tattered garments, made his appearance at
the door of a beautiful little cottage which stood on
the banks of a small stream which runs through
one of the many romantic vallies of the west.
On knocking at the door the stranger was bid to
enter, and being shown a chair sat down, placing
his little budget by his side.
"A very beautiful evening sir," said the.stran-
ger to the proprietor of the house, a rather goode
looking middle-aged gentleman.
Yes, replied the host, nature is always beautiful-
but you seem weary, have you travelled far to
day?
About twenty miles, as near as I can judge, re-
plied the stranger.
A very remarkable walk sir, for one of your age,
replied the man of the house-but I suppose you
are used to this exercise.
"Friend," replied the stranger, I am as you per-
ceive well stricken in'years,I have seen full seventy
winters, and will see no more-my mission on earth
is completed, and I shall soon be gathered to the
habitation of my fathers. As you have supposed
I have been upon. my feet all my life, and have
been a sojourner in the wilderness, since called
upon my mission."

PIONEBB LiFEo           289


I

290

PIONEER LIFE.

"I presume then, replied the host you are a mis-
sionary or Minister of the Gospel."
Yes sir, meekly replied the old man, while his
dim and sunken eyes, were filled with tears-I have
taught what I conceived to be the true doctrines
of the Bible, and expect shortly to eat the fruits
of my doings in a better land.
The manner in which the old man had spoken
these words, was deeply affecting, bringing tears to
the eyes of his hearer, who wishing to know more
of the singular stranger with whom he was conver-
sing, thus addressed him.
Sir it would give me much pleasure, and I have
no doubt much interest to know your history, which
I am satisfied is a most interesting one.
"Then," said the stranger, I will comply with
your request. I was born far away towards the
rising sun, upon the banks of oie of the most ro-
mantic streams which washes the shores of New
England. In early life I imbibed a fondness for
rural scenery, and often wandered from my home'
along the banks of the stream in quest of natural
curiosities, flowers and plants, Nothing gave me
more pleasure than listening to the music of birds,
and the hum of insects. I had thus grown up to
boyhood, conversing withlthe various objects of na-
ture around me ; I had received a limited educa-
tion, I had been taught the common branches of
education. One day while in the deep forest med-
itating upon the goodness of God, as exemplified
in creation (for I had received a pious education) I
heard, as I supposed a voice immediately behind
me, saying,-
"Arise run ye to and fro through the wilderness.
and bear the words of life to the heathen thereof''
I cast my eyes to where the sound proceeded,
but saw no living being. At first I was somewhat
astonished and no little alarmed. But then I re-
collected that a similar voice had spoken to the

291

prophet Samuel, and I concluded that it was the
voice of an angel, commissioning me to proclaim
the glad tidings of peace. Returning 'to my home,
I sought an interview with my parents and com-
municated to them my call to the ministry, as a
missionary, and expressed my , determination to
obey the summons.
I was about 18 years of age when I left the home
of my youth, for the perils of the wilderness. I
bent my steps to western Pennsylvania, where I
remained for some years, until it became settled
with white inhabitants ; from thence 'I made my
way into the Ohio forests, where I remained for some
years after the war 6f 1812, preaching and teach-
ing, and otherwise trying to benefit my fellows ;
Finding that my sphere of usefulness was diminish-
ing in Ohio, I left it a few years ago, and have
made my way into this region, where j shall lay
my wearied limbs forever at rest."
Your's indeed is a singular history, replied the
settler, but have you never been at home since
you left ?"
"Home," replied the old man while tears rolled
down his furrowed cheeks-" home," repeated he,
and his eyes shone with a lustre of divinity-I
have no home on earth. My home is over yonder,
and he raised his trembling hand, and pointed to-
wards the skies. But, continued he, there were
sunny spots in childhood's palmy days--and well do
I 'remember, the endearing affections of the home
of my youth-the fond smiles of a tenderhearted
mother, and the sweet kisses of an affectionate sis-
ter--all these endearing associations, I relinquish-
ed forever, and made the wild. wide forest, my
earthly habitation, and its wild beasts and wild
men my companions-the flower strewn earth, for
the past 40 years has been my only bed, and the
leafy grove or star spangled heavens my only shel-
ter-Rain or sunshine, wind or calm, wet or dry,-

'4

dl ION      Itaim


YONEER LIE.          293

all the sale to me. Mine has been a life of peril-
and of privations-yet I have been happy-.-
You may.imagine that there is no happiness out
side of the home circle-but [can assure you sir,
that in holding converse with -Nature's God
through the medium of his works, one realizes a
happiness never dreamed of in the home circle.
Go sir," as I have gone, alone, all alone amid the
dark tall trees of the forest-by the side of the
murmuring stream, or the placid lake, and there
let the heart meditate-and you will feel and ex-
perience the highest sense of enjoyment. In -ro
ving the Iorest you can inhale the sweet fragrance
of the flowers that fringe your path, you can hear
the sweet minstrelsy of the sighing winds through
the thick foliage of the trees, you can listen to the
heart cheering music of the featherd chorists, you
can gaze upon the deep blue sky, boundless in ex-
panse, and let your imagination carry you to the
home of the blest-and in all of this you will feel a
joy and happiness which are not found in the halls
of fashionable life.
Strange and mysterious being, who art thou?
asked the deeply interested settler, who had lis-
tened''to the deeply touching pathos of the old
man, as he spoke of his wanderings through the
forest.
I am a lone pilgrim, replied the old man, my
name is written in the Lamb's book of life, and read
there by all the hosts of heaven- I am journeying
to a country unseen by mortal eyes, where I shall
live and live forevermore.
But, I would know thy name, that I'might remem-
her thee, in after days, replied the settler.
My name responded the old man is Jonathan
Chapman; I am more familiarly known among the
people of western Pennsylvania, and northwestern
Ohio, as Johnny Appleseed.
"What !" exclaimed the settler ia much aston-

ishment, " Johnny Appleseed of Richland County,
notoriety ?"
The same replied Johnny, and casting his search-
ing eyes full into the face of the settler, asked him
if ever he had resided. there.
That replied the settler was my my home in 1811.
I was then a small boy, I recollect of seeing you
but I suppose you do not recollect me, On the
breaking out of the war, my father removed to
Cleveland, where we remained till the close of the
war, when we moved to this region.
"Well,"replied the old man, since you have seen
me in the prime of life, and as you now find me on
the verge of death, let me ask but one favor -of
you, in the name of him, in whose cause I have
lived and will shortly die.
Name it replied the generous settler-, name it
and your request shall be gratified.
I would ask the privilege of your house in which
to end my days, which you.may rest assured are but
few, for I feel that death is even now destroying
this earthly tabernacle of mine.
The cabin of my father, in other days, replied
the kind hearted settler, was always open to sup-
ply the wants of the destitute stranger; .and his
generous example shall be followed by his. son-
therefore, venerable old man, consider my house
your home."
Thank you, thank you, replied the old. pilgrim,
while tears fell fast and thick from his fine black
eyes.
The sun had already gone down, and: the shades
of night were setting in-the old man had walked
several miles during the day and was much fatigu-
ed-He begged =his host for a bowl of milk and a
piece of bread, at this moment the settler's wife, a
fine portly good looking lady opened the door and
announced supper waiting.
You'l please step out to supper said the settler,

-r

2:92             PtoNE91 LtPV


PIONEER LIFE.

but the old man begged to eat by himself. His re-
quest was granted, after which they retired to bed,
the old man persistingin sleeping upon the floor. Be-
fore retiring he asked permission to hold a spirit-
ual communion with the family, and taking from
his little budget, the work of life he opened and
read.
Blessed are the poor in spirit for theirs is the
kingdom of Heaven-Blessed are they that mourn
for they shall be comforted--Blessed are the meek
for they shall inherit the earth-Blessed are they
which do hunger and thirst after righteouness; .for
they shall be filled-Blessed are the merciful, for
they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in
heart for they shall see God,-then closing the
book he invoked the blessings of heaven upon the
family, and lay down to rest.
Morning came. A bright and glorious sun rose
unclouded. A holy calm was spread over the land-
scape, while the forest echoed with the music of
the many feathered songsters which filled the
grove. But there was one within the walls of that
humble little cottage that saw not that rising sun
nor heard that soul in-spiring music, for on enter-
in g the room where the lonely stranger lay, it was
discovered that he had indeed gone to rest. He
was dead, he had died without a struggle, and up-
on his pale and bloodless lips rested the smile of
joy with which he died-Perhaps he had been con-
versing with his loved ones, who soothed and com-
forted his weary spirit in his dying moments.
Thus died Johnny Appleseed, who had lived a
moral blameless life, and had wandered like a de-
serted pilgrim through the dreary wilderness, a
stranger among strangers.
His remains are now lying near Fort Wayne,
Allen Co. Indiana.
The balance of our story is soon told. Philip
Seymour was united, in marriage with Anne Bradi-

r

ley, the supposed daughter of Captain Pipe of
Richland Co. and after paying his friends a visit in
Pennsylvania, settled down on a beautiful location
in one of the southwestern States. Alfred Bradley
accompanied Philip and his sister to their new
home in Texan, and was killed in the battle of San
Jacinto, while fighting for the liberties of Texas,
in 1836.
.Bunty Billy, a few y1Aars after leaving Richland
Co., married the young Squaw, with whom. he had
the rough and tumbl4(scuffle on the villagegreen ;
and shortly afterwarIs emigrated farther westward.
Captain Pipe died af a good old agegarpopg, his red
brethern in the far vest, in the Indian Reservation.
And thus ends /our. truthful narration. :Long
years have passed/way since the scenes described
herein have been enacted. Yet there are 'ti'll mna-
ny living witnesses n this country who willibear tee-
timony to the mo     important facts conined
herein. But after all, an  for want okygIeldge
will feel disposed to call the whole  (niiquestion,
and treat the whole as a work of flvionrtat. pro-
duction of inagination
Others again will find no objections to thetryth
of the matter, but to the manierof      ion.
In many instances words of rather doubtfu-
ty are used.. To this we answer.-A faithful hi o r-
ian must use such language as wiconvey ha nest
faithful impressions of the chaiaotrdesoiri ,. tn
many instances, however, wehavetandthis
rule in the composition ofthis1r    hve used
instead of the languagegien u, }=; der type.
The work is not free fromiimperfections ; but as
is we throw it before the public for their accept-
auce or refusal. If it has merits it will be appre-
ciated, if it be destitute of them, it should be con-
signed with all worthless trash to everlasting con-
demnation.

u                                                                              .i

294

PIONEER LIFE .


ft

I

t f K5     }

9

or


  
             
         
       
   
