
    ----CITATION----
        Southworth, Emma Dorothy Eliza Nevitte, (1819-1899). Hickory Hall, or, The Outcast .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7863
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Hickory Hall, or, The outcast 
            
               THWORT.",                               ! ' BY MRS EMMA D. E. N. SOUTHWORTH 1AUTHOR  FP "THE LOST HEIRESS,"DESERBED WIFE," "GIPSY'S PROPHECY," "I ,'m*'! ." BRB'BRUTION," 'THE BROKEN ENGAGEM       CBK  , "DISGARDAD DAUOHTGRM U :      ,  . ft, WIFf'S VCT rY," "CURSRi CLIFTON," "HAUNTrt BI[ESTIAD,"' ^e TkS*THKS IAJ ^TH W IBLE," "THBE MOSl     L4W, TS "HTE C    M T STES." ' I   "     .wM.-- BT ThB, K          I    I th fs      o of  ea.   M e , ' " '. 'I  II'iW 11", /' , Mrs. Southworth is, beyond all question, th most powernl feimale writel f America, i the world. No one ever red a  ter re chaptof one of her works without wifhing to read the Whol p'*asind none ever read oe oeof her books without admortng the rare gallin of its author, and ' that she might soon write another m ort bl Hlikory Halp ' will be welcomed by eneh, especial those who have never read the works of this gifted woman, shoUld not fail to get this book a It sat once."-C7urt. r. - Mrs. Southworth is the first female author of America. There is more originality in the tions of Mrs Sotithworth, than in any other author we know of, of the female sex. She naevel a paeflon to tatters,' as is often the case with authors of er sex-a failing which enfeebles thel and deastroys the effect of their most brilliant chapters. Even Maria Jane Porter was not frn *U'j] this failing; but Mrs. Southworth tf. She has a comprehensivness of intellect not aurpad ?f] , tDickens or Bulwer, and as great a facility of detail as the former of these eminent authors. may she live to give us more of the ,lendid creations of her imagination."-Dafly ,Adw,   T. B. PETERS$N AND BROTHE RI  306. CHE1STNUrT -STR REE-T.    Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1861, by T. B. PETERSON, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States in and for the Eastern Distiict of Pennsylvania.   WOGA N ...   ...  / .,            *           V R ECIIA.           ......... .......... ....... 49 Tup, I OF THE   ..   s    .  .  . . .  v  \ Tffm'  BUD  OW Y.................. ..      8 'TO NTCENT-S. CHAPTER FIRST. THE M YSTERY ...... ... . . ........ * * .. ... o u . . e e ... ... ... o .o 1  CHAPTER SECOND. 'WOLFGANG WALLRAVEN. . . ................... .................... 34 CHAPTER TEIRD. RIeGp NA F AIR'FIBELD;.o ........e......,.................,..... 49 CHAP*'ER FOURr TH. THE REVELAT ION E o .. ....................................................... 64 CHAPTER. FPIFTH'. THE INSIDE OF THE OLD HALL ........... w o e * 9e......... .* . ........ 70 ,$ CHAPTER  SIXTH. T E MYSTERY DEEPENS O ..................       78  , CHAPTER SEVENTH., THE LOST PATRIMONY ......*..*** * . . . e o ........................ 89 CHAPTER EIGHTH.  THE BRIDE'S DOWRY. .............e e  o ................... .....i.. 98  OCH:APTER    {NTCEH. THE VICTIM BRIDE. ,...' 1........'. O * *e* ** . * 106 CHAPTER TENTHr. THE H A ........... e............. .... .....  ......... ..... ..... . 120 CHAPTER ELEVENTH. fE FAT ............E....... .......... .... ...... . ..e. ....... ... .* 130 {  .                      flao\    OR, THE OUTCAST. A ROMANCE OF THE BLUE RIDGE,  CHAPTER FIRST. THE MYSTERY. This the hall The nettle buildeth bowers, Where loathsome toad and beetle black are seen! Are these the chambers? Fed by darkes showers,  s The shny worm hath o'er them crawling been I Is this the home? The owlet's dreary ory, Unto that asking makes a dread reply!-Nicoli. EARLY in the autumn of 18-, we   e ore urneying lei- surely through the majestic  d- betAtiful mountain and ' valley scenery in the interior of Virginia.  It was near the close of a golden tober day that we  reached the picturesque little village lillsborough, situ-  ated upon a very high point of land, and in the midst of  abrupt, rocky, tree-capped peaks, with green dents of fertile soil between. It was a town of rocks-founded upon rocks, -hemmed in by rocks-the dwelling-houses, out-houses,  fences, pig-pens, chicken-coops, all built of rocks of every conceivable variegated hue. It was, indeed, a beautiful and  brilliant piece of mosaic work, up and down a ground of  ; .   !2     HCKbRY HALL; OR, THE -OUTCAST.        , shaded green. It was as radiant and many colored as the  forest in autumn, and flashed and sparkled in the golden sun like an open casket of jewels. We reached the quaint old inn in time for a late dinner.  There we expected to 'meet the carriage of a friend who , resided at a farm about five miles distantacross the  mountains, and at whose house we were going to spend a few weeks. We found our friend, Mrs. Farfield, waiting i. for us, and as soon as dinner was over we set out for Cedar Cliffs. Our oad lay west through a savagely beautiful  country, breaking itself .up toward a lofty range of blue mountains encircling the western horizon, and behind which glowed and burned the crimson sunset sky.         f We approached the celebrated pass of the Bear s Walk, from the highest point of which an extensive view of the valley was afforded. As we began to ascend the mountain, I fell into one of those indolent, pleasant, but rather selfish - reveries, which the gathering shadows of twilight, the dark- ening scene, and the heavy, sleepy motion of the carriage, seemed to invite. From this reverie I was at length aroused by my indulgent companion, who, laying her hand upon my arm, and pointing across me through the window  t on the right, said, "I wish you to observe that house."      .  We had just sloyly reached the summit of the oun- tain, and the carriage had *pped to breathe the horses. I looked Out at the window on the right. It was yet; early enough in the ev., ] and there was light enough left to see, pitching prectpitately down below us, a flight of cliffs, the -bases of which were lost in abysses of twilight gloom and foliage, and the circular range of which swept round in a. ring, shutting in a small, but deep and cup-shaped valley. Down in the deeps of this darkening vale loomed luridly a large old farm-house of red sand-stone. The prevalent tone of the picture was gloom. Down into a reverie about the    HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     23 deep, dark vale, and darker house, swooped mrhfancy again. The carriage was in slow motion. I drew in my head.  "Did you notice the house ."            a "Yes; and through that deep sea of dark and floating shadows, itself the densest shadow, it looms like sdme dark phantom, some ghos t o f a dead home ." "Say a murdered home." "I wish you wouldn't break a well-rounded sentence with any sort of improvement-ghost of a dead home about to melt away again in the surrounding gloom." "Well said--better even than you think. Yet that old, half ruined farm-house is the centre of one of the largest, most beautiful, fertile, highly-cultivated, and productive estates in all Virginia. If you saw it under the noonday, summer sun, you would see a variegated ground-view of vast fields of wheat and rye, yellow and ripening for the harvest; corn, green, waving in the sun; red-blossomed clover, pastures of blue grass rolling down the sides of the hills behind us, and stretching out on all sides of the old house, and disappearing under the bow of the circular-, bounding of mountains. You hear now the mellowed tinkle of a waterfall, which, springing from the cliffs we have just left, flows down the side of the rocks, and reaching thge . i h bottom of the cup-like vale, spreads itself into many little, ,i H. clear rills, well watering its fertile fields, red patu rage, and -: heavy woods. This estate, with its fine water, its wealth of iron ore and coal in' the encircling mountains, its abundance- of game in the forest and fish in the tiver, and its immense water-power, is one of the most valuable in the Southern states. Yet in the midst of that wealthy and highly-culti- vated plantation stands the homestead itself a desolation!" "Then the shadowy view of it is after all the best. Now i that you have directed attention to this dark phantom of ia  hopme looming luridly from the deep shadows, I warrant that we shall hear you say that this uncouth jumble of rough  hewn red sandstone and miscellaneous rubbish is no less a ::: '"i*     24    HCKORYl HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. place than Lingston Lawn, Pomfret Park, or some other style of sonorous sound." t No-it is only Hickory Hall." "Oh, yes! one of the oldest mansion-houses in the states -the residence, since 1610, of the oldest branch of the Lingstons, the Doverfields, or some othr great family, with nothing left but their great name and great need." "On the contrary, Hickory Hall is only the home of the Wallravens, and has been so for only a hundred years." "Exactly-precisely-I said that. Hickory Hall, for upward a hundred years, the seat of the Wallravens, an old family, with nothing left tut their old name. And now I understand why the homestead is in ruins, while the farm is in the highest state of cultivation." "Why, I pray you 1" "I will undertake to say that al these well-cultivated fields, rolling in richness from hence/to the horizon, belong to an 'industrious, intelligent, and enterprising' Yankee purchaser and settler, who came here some five or six years ago peddling mouse-traps, and has now become possessed of all this land, and whose substantial, square-built, red brick house stares one out of countenance somewhere over yonder by the side of the main road leading to market." "Wrong again. Hugh Wallraven is one of the wealth- iest, if not the very wealthiest man in Virginia. His for- tune is estimated, with what truth I know not, at one million." "Possible! I did. not think there was such a private fortune in the country." "It is said to be true, however." "One million! why in the world, then, does he not put ip a decent houe? A decent house! Good! why does he not erect upon this favored spot a palace of white marble, with terraces, conservatories, pleasure gardens, fountains, groves? Fill his palace with the most beautiful and perfect works of mechanism, in the way of furniture, to be pro- '       "   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     25 cured in Europe and Asia-with the rarest works of art of ancient or modern times-his conservatories with the richest exotics of all climes-his gardens with the finest vegetables -his orchards with the utmost perfection -of fruit? If I were he, with one million of dollars, I would introduce every new improvement in farming, grazing, stock breeding-I would import the best specimens of cattle, horses; poultry. I would have Welch ponies, Scotch draft horses, English hunters, and Arabian coursers. Oh! I would make myself and so many other people so happy! One million! Oh! stop-don't speak to me yet-just let me revel in the idea of one million to lavish on this magnificent spot.'" "W hy you unsophisticated little blockhead!" "But why then does. not this Mr. Wallraven-or rather, Judge Wallraven, or Gen. Wallraven--for I never heard of a planter, of any importance, reaching a certain period of life, without somef title of distinction-why does not Gov. Wallraven do something with one million,?" "He has done something-his farm is the best cultivated in the state." "Yes! but it should be the best stocked-the best in every particular-the model farm." "Mr. Wallraven is a very aged man."  "Ah! he is Mr., then." 6"Of course. People do not confer honors of any sort upon men like him "  "Men like him! He is a bad man, then? perhaps a- criminal, whose immense wealth and powerful family con- nections have enabled' him to cheat the state, prison of its due!"  "Mr. Wallraven has never been charged with, r even. suspected of, a-crime " "In his own proper person. 'The sins of the fathers shall be visited upon the children.' His father, perhaps "  "Possessed a name that was a synonym for high honor; ;:';:-/, fi I ' , .  ^ '. 8 a ;   " 26     HCKORY HALL; OR, TIIE OUTCAST. and sterling integrity--his son, with his name, has inherited his reputation and character of strict truth and honesty." "Ah! that is it, then! He does not cheat at cards, and therefore he has not won any of the prizes in the game of life. But to return to my first quesnction. Why does not Mr. Wallraven, of the sterling integrity, and the pounds sterling, do something " "He is the best agriculturalist in the state-it is his rul- ing -passion-his occupation." "And he lives in a wretched, old, ruinous house? Why doesn't he improve his place 1" "4 Pertinacious! He is an aged man of sixty years." "Yes! I seel And he has no children-that circum- stance paralyzes his energies even more than old age!" "How you jump to conclusions! He has a son and daughter!"  "Hum--hum-ah! well, but, sixty years old! His son and daughter must themselves be married, and settled off, and have children-and so, at last, he is a solitary old man, with no motive for improving and embellishing his home- stead-the old house, if it will keep out the rain, is quite good enough, he thinks, for the short life of the solitary old grandfather." "Utterly wrong! His children, though past their early youth, are both still single." I paused for a moment, and then a luminous idea lighted up' the whole subject, and I exclaimed, triumphantly. 'Now I have it! Now I certainly have it! He is one of those unnatural monsters, a miser! Of course! why, surely! Why did I not seer it at once? How it explains every thing that was difficult to understand now! How clear that answer to the enigma makes all obscurity! How con- sistent all -seeming contradictions! Certainly! He is a miser! That does not prevent him being a man of strict honesty, sterling integrity-yet, most certainly, he is a, miser; and 'people do not confer titles of distinction upon   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.   -  27 men like him!' Yes, he is a miser! That is the manner in which he has amassed his immense property! T hat is also the reason why his house is suffered to fall to ruins while his farm is well cultivated-the farm will make re- turns, but the house will not. He has also half starved, half clothed, and half educated his children. They have grown up coarse, uncouth, ignorant, unfit for good society. They are consequently not well received, and even if they were disposed to marry, he would not portion 'his' daughter, or establish his son in business. That is the answer to the whole enigma! Now say that I have no quickness of appre- hension!"          ' "Wonderful!" "'Ah! I have my inspirations sometimes!" "Stupendous!" "You are making fun of me!"       X ' "Hem! listen. His son, Constant Wallravem graduated at a Northern University, and made the grand tour of the Eastern continent,"accompanied by a clergyman salaried to attend him. You never saw a handsomer or more magnifi-  ;-. cent looking man, or one of more perfect dress and adldress --'the courtier's, scholar's, soldier's, eye, tongue, sword.' His daughter, Constantia Wallraven, is one of the most beautiful and elegant of women, with one of the best culti- vated minds I ever met." "You surprise and perplex me more and more-hand- some, accomplished, wealthy, in the prime of life, and have never been married! but perhaps it is they who are cold ."        I "Not so. They have ardent temperaments and warm affections." "Then they are, take them all in all, not easily matched, and, of course, they are fastidious!" "I think not; I am sure not! for, listen again, some years ago Constant fell in love with the beautiful daughter of a poor day laborer-a poor, miserable fellow who hired in   28     HIKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. harvest, or in very busy times, to work in the field with the negroes." "Ah! now it comes!" "Constant wished to marry her." "Well" "He offered himself to the girl."        4 "Wellt" "And the poor, abjectly poor, father threatened to shoot the son of the millionaire if he caught him near his hut again." "The poor father could not believe in his daughter's good fortune. He suspected the young man of evil designs?" "Possibly. If he did him that wrong, he was quickly undeceived-for the very next day Hugh Wallraven,l the father, called at -the hut of the poor day laborer, and asked o the hand of his young daughter, 'llen Dale: for his son and heir; and the poor man, with a blush of indignation, refused it!" "You astonish me!" "Hugh Wallraven then offered to settle fifty thousand dollars on the maiden, if her father w;ould permit the match; and the pauper father refused!" "'You astound me! You positively do! What could have been theSpoor man's, motive- enmity " "No! the poor creature wept bitterly while refusing his daughter to the son of his best friend and patron-and such L" was Hugh Wallraven to Thomas Dale."  "Perhaps this Constant Wallraven' was a love-child, and the poor but; honest and sternly correct, father of a family upon that account despised and rejected the alliance!" "Did I not say that Hugh Wallraven had never been charged or even suspected of crime or vicet No! Constant was the son of his marriage; and here it is well to inform you that the father for his whole life, and the children from an early age, have been members in good standing-for persons in their condition-of the Protestant Episcopal   HCKORY HALL-; OR, THE OUTCAST.    2 church. If ever a family lived up to a Christian standard, ; it is the Wallravens."  "And yet, notwithstanding their wealth, intelligence and piety, the poorest day laborer, who is bound to them besides by a debt of gratitude and love, will not ally with one of his family!" "Even so." "What can be the reason of this proscriptionS some horrible hereditary affliction. Yes! that must be it-insan- ity perhaps!" "Worse far than that!" "Blindness!" "Infinitely worse than that!"9 "Some loathsome disease such as we read of in the East -leprosy!" "Worse even than that, or any disease, or any sin, is this one incurable, fatal family calamity!" "Come, there is a story connected with this doomed fam- ily-this dark phantom of a dead home-- " "Of a murdered home, as I said before. Yes, there is a dark, dreadful story--a domestic tragedy!" "Will you tell it to me " "Yes-or rather you shall know it! It is inevitable that you should hear it--perhaps an unjust version of it, and as one very, very near and dear to me is intimately connected with the whole affair, in justice to him you shall have the truth. We are near Cedar Cliffs now. In a few minutes we shall reach the house." It was dusk. There is something mysteriously pleasing to me in ap- proaching in the dusk of the evening a strange country house, in which I expect to stay awhile. As the carriage stopped before the house about to become our temporary home, we looked out with vague interest and curiosity in the blackness of the night; but we could dis- cover nothing but indistinct and shadowy shapes, suggestive   30     HCKORY HALL; ORr THE OUTCAST. of a massive dWelling-house, with out-buildings, and trees, and hills, and a back-grouis of lofty mountains, looming dark, darker, and darkest, intOthe murky sky. There was such an absorbing obscurity swallowing up every thing.   X There was such a shadowy interest-such a stimulus to     i curiosity-such a field for imagination in all so vague and undefined. It is the charm of the unknown-the glamour : of\ the terra incognita, that attracts us. It seems like dream-land -like childhood come back. And then there is the cheerful anticipation of exploring the new scenes, by daylight, to-morrow, after breakfast, of which we think now, and of which We shall dream to-night. We are just agreeably chilly, hungry, and tired enough to anti- cipate thorough enjoyment from the glowing fire, the hot supper, and the soft bed that shortly awaits us; and curious enough to wonder in detail what each will be like. At the end of a long journey, commend me to an arrival at a country house at dark, where every sort of comfort will be enhanced by the most affectionate welcome. Gently pleasing fancies and feelings, like these, half forgotten child- ish emotions of wonder and curiosity about small things, possessed my mind, chasing from it completely all dark and 7 weird imaginings awakened by the Phantom House in the    'i Vale of Solitude.                 '    i Almost ,immediately after the carriage stopped, we saw a I  light glafcing behind the closed Venitian blinds of the  j ; house, aild immediately the front door opened, and a lantern j emerged and came to meet us, followed by a long, dark   I  shadow that flitted, fantastically, hither and .thither, behind  it. It was Gullivar, the old gardener, who opened the gate ^ and assisted us to alight. Mary (Mrs. Fairfield) gave us in  charge of a colored chambermaid, who conducted us to a   . pleasant bedroom, fragrant will the smell of dried herbs, and agreeably warmed by a bright and cheerful fire., ' Soon as we had bathed and changed our clothes, Mary came and conducted us down to supper in one of those corn-    HCKORY HALL; OR, THE O'UTCAST.      1 fortable and agreeable rooms that young and tasteful house- keepers are so fond of perfecting. A coal fire glowed redly through the polished steel bars of a large grate, the bright light of a solar lamp, standing upon the tea-table, flashed down upon an elegant tea-service of chased silver and white china arrayed upon a snowy damask cloth. It was an envi- able room indeed. By the side of the fire, in a spring-bottomed arm-chair, sat a gentleman whose appearance instantly interested me. He was of medium height, of slight, but elegant figure, and his fair, wan complexion, spiritual countenance, and golden locks, "Did a ghastly contrast bear" to the black hue of his mourning dress. This gentleman arose with a languid grace, and came to receive us; and when Mary named me to "Mr. Fairfield," her husband, he welcomed me with easy kindness. We then took our places at the table. It was impossible, however, not to observe the expression of profound, incurable so'rrow upon the countenance of this young man.  It was, impossible not to wonder how Mary herself could preserve , any remnant of cheerfulness by the side of this heart-crush- ing despair. It seemed too deep, too great to leave' him a thought of struggling against it, or concealing it. Yet, habitual politeness, feelings of hospitality, or benevolence, made him very kindly attentive to me; and I never saw any thing so sad, so moving to tears, as his smile. Indeed, as already beginning to be painfully, strongly, interested in this young gentleman-more strongly than I like to be in man, woman, or child, over whose destiny I can exert no control for their happiness. And when I turned from  his wan, spiritual countenance, to that of Mary, at the head ox the table, I thought that her happy, youthful face, so full of health, intelligence, and cheerful bonhommie, must exercise. a Wholesome, if an unseen, influence upon her suffering companion.    32 ,    HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. $.ii An incident that occurred that evening, further excited f my wonder and interest. We had left the supper-table, which was cleared away, and gathered around the fire, which had been replenished, and glowed brightly, when a knock at the front-door was heard, and soon after the parlor-door was opened, and an old man stood within it. He was very tall, very broad-shouldered; but stooping, either with sorrow or infirmity. He was clothed in deep  moutrning-his left hand leaned heavily on a stout, gold- headed cane, while with his right hand he tremblingly lifted from his venerable head his hat, which he held in his hand, revealing by the action a brow, plowed deep by sorrow or remorse, and hair white as the driven show. There was an air of deep humiliation, of piteous deprecation, in his whole ,!:'j manner and appearance, most painful to witness in one so aged, and, in every other respect, so venerable. Neither Mary nor Mr. Fairfield arose to receive this visitor-nor, by look or gesture showed any sort of respect for him-only Mary looked sadly down at her hands, and Mr. Fairfield said, kindly, but gravely,       : "How do you do, Mr. Wallraven?" "Mr. Wallraven!" thought I, giving a covert, but pierc- ing glance, at the aged and stooping figure standing, hat in hand, so deprecatingly at the door. "Ferdinand; she is dying at last---come to her, she is dy- ing!" he said.      . "Dying!" echoed Mary. "Thank God!" fervently exclaimed Mr. Fairfield, with !! the first look of hope I had yet seen on his wan face.  1t "Yes, dying. Will you comet" repeated the old man, as .!  he trembled over his staff. "Will you come?"  "Assuredly. Mary, love, order the carriage. Dying at  : last. Thank God!"           " Mary had hastily left the room, and soon returned with ? his cloak and hat.                   !   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     33 Fairfield quickly donned. them, and, accompanied by, the old man, left the house. After they had gone, Mary Fairfield wallked about in a state of half-suppressed excitement such as I had never seen her betray. She seemed to have forgotten me altogether, for which I could not blame her. Presently, suddenly stop- ping, she asked, "Dear, are you tired?" Feeling myself really fatigued anda somewhat de trop,  answered, "Yes." "I will attend you to your room," she said, and, taking up a candle that she herself had left burning on the side. table, when she came in with Mr. Fairfield's cloak,bse pre- ceded me up stairs, and into my room, where we found the fire still bur/ling, and a negro girl waiting. "You may go, Blanch," said Mrs. Fairfield to the woman, who immediately left the room; and then, "I can unhook your dress, dear," shP kindly said to me. I wished to try her, to see whether she was really con- cerned at a circumstance, for which she had just thanked God so feevently. I turned suddenly, and squeezing her hand heartily, said, "Mary I have fallen half in love with your husband- do you care?" "Oh! darling, don't jest. He is ill-his constitution has received a severe shock-he is heart-Broken." And now I saw by her countenance that a great deal of her cheerfulness and bonhomie in his presence was nothing more than self-control.   A violent knocking at the front-door summoned her in haste from the room. It was about fifteen minutes before she returned. She was bonneted and cloaked for a journey, and she held in her hand a large ,old letter.    y "'They have sent the carriage back for me, dear," she said. "I shallprobably be absent all night, but you are at Home you know. Blanch will attend to all your orders-- and, dear, here is a letter. It is one that Ferdinand wrote 2 $   Oq    :i[ UJHCKORY HiALL; UOR THEJ' UUTCAST-'. to me on the eve of our engagement-he called it his con- fessions. It is only his explanation of certain dreadful cir- cumstances that troubled me before our marriage, and that trouble you now. I have Ferdinand's consent to leave it with you. Read it. It will tell you all, you wish to know. It will engage you during my absence, and, when I return, you will know-the end!" She kissed me and was ghne. I had been very tired and sleepy; but there was no sleep for me then until I had read the manuscript. I trimmed my fire-drew a candle-stand to my side-and, with my feet upon 'the fender, opened the manuscript that was to let me into the'secret of the "Phantom House." CHAPTER SECOND. WOLFGANG WALLRAVENO His face is dark, but very quiet; It seems like looking down the dusky mouth Of a great cannon.-John Sterling.  Heed him not, though he seem Dark and still and cold as clay, He is shadowed by his dream, But 'twill pass away.--Barry Cornwall. I DO not know what was the power that attracted ineso strongly, so inevitably, so fatally, to Wolfgang Wallraven whether it was magnetism, sorcery, or destiny-or whether it was the gloom and mystery of his manner and appear- ance. Certain it is that there was a glamour in his dark and locked-up countenance and in the smouldering fierceness of his hollow eyes that irresistibly drew me on- to my fate. He did not seek my acquaintance-he sought the society of no 'i. ,   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     35 one. On the contrary, he withdrew himself into solitude- into surliness. This was unusual in a schoolboy, and it made him very unpopular. To me, however, his sullen reserve and surly manner had more interest, more fascination, than, the openest and blandest demonstrations of social affection from any of the other boys could have. There was evidently something behind and under it. He was not all outside. Perhaps he piqued my curiosity, or interested someveeling more profound than mere curiosity. I inquired: fl him. "Who is he? Where did he come from l" "Oh! he is a haughty fellow. The eldest son and heir of an immensely wealthy Virginian. You can't make any thing of him; let him alone." I turned my eyes on him. He was sitting at his distant desk-a single, solitary desk in the farthest corner of the school-room. His elbow leaned upon his desk-his brow supported upon his I alm-his eyes bent upon the book lying open be"ore hi is dark, rich locks hanging over his fingers. "Why does the professor give him that distant, single desk, apart from all the other boys? Seems to ,me that would make him unsocial." "Why? It is his choice. The young prince is an aris- tocrat, and does not choose to sit upon a form and mix with other boys. I say you had better let him alone. You can do nothing with him." I looked at him again and more attentively. ,There was more suffering than scorn revealed in the charming curves of his mouth-a mouth that would have been perfectly beau- tiful, had not the lips been too closely compressed and the corners too sadly declined. I gazed at him under the influ- ence of a sort of fascination. Yes, there was more sorrow than hauteur darkly written upon that young regal brow. My heart warmed, glowed toward him with a mysterious and irresistible sympathy that compelled me to saunter to- ward him. (This was in the recess between the mormni   836     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. and afternoon 'sessions, a period which-with the exception of a few minutes at the dinner table-he always spent at his solitary studying desk.) I sauntered toward him slowly- for I felt in some degree like an intruder-engaged in op- posite and contradictory thoughts and feelings. My intellect was seeking to explain the mystery of his solitude and re- serve, and to excuse my own intrusion, by this reasoning. "He is the eldest son and heir of an immensely wealthy Virginia planter. He is of an old, haughty family, and has been accustomed to 'sovereign sway and masterdom' all his life. He is now, however, in a genuine republican school- thank heaven all our schools, academies, and colleges, are republican--and he finds himself in a mixed company of sons whose fathers peddled needles and thread about the town, and whose mothers sold apples under the trees, and made fortunes at it; and, with his senseless and anti-repub- lican, Virginian hauteur, he thinks hself above these, and withdraws himself from them. Aa    know these proud, aristocratic Virginians well. My haugity uncle was a Vir- ginian, and emigrated to Louisiana. Upon the part of his school-mates, some are proud as himself, and will not make unwelcome advances; while some are only vain and conceited, ashamed of the newness of their wealth, sore upon that point, secretly honoring old respectability, and fearful of being sus- pected of courting it, will 'not seek the acquaintance of this young aristocrat, lost they be so misunderstood. With me, -however, it indifferent. Myself descended from Lord B , Governor ofColonial Virginia-the possessor of a handsome patrimonial estate in Alabama, when I Shall come of age- and the heir apparent of an immense sugar plantation and several hundred resident negroes-I need not fear to ap- proach this young gentleman upon at least an equal feeling." So I reasoned, as I said, to account for his reserve, and to excuse my own intrusion. But my feelings utterly revolted against my thoughts. My head might think what it pleased, but my heart felt certain that pride of place had nothing to ,     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.      7 do with the surliness of the strange, lonely boy. As I drew near him I felt a rising embarrassment-a,difficulty in ad- dressing him to whom I had never yet spoken one word. Suddenly a bright idea was inspired. I had by chance my "Thucydides" in my hand. I approached his lonely desk, opened-my book, and said, "Mr. Wallraven, I have a favor to ask of you. I am in a difficulty about a Greek particle. If you assist me I shall feel under a very great obligation." Never shall I forget the effect of his picturesque attitude and expression of countenance as I stood by him. His form was turned from me, and toward the corner window against which his desk sat. He was leaning, as I said before, with his elbow on the desk-his head on his hand, the fingers of which were lost amid dark, glossy locks which drooped over his temples and side-face, concealing his face at first from me; but, as I spoke, he quickly, as a startled raven, turned his head, and gave me a quick, piercing glance from his light-gray, intensely bright eyes-a glance dilating as it gazed, until it blazed like broad sheet lightning upon I e. I had always thought his eyes dark till now. His skin was so sallow-his hair, his eyebrows, his sweeping eyelashes, such a jetty resplendent black-that dark eyes were taken for granted.  When now, however, he raised the deep vails of those long, black, sweeping lashes, light-gray Saxon eyes, of that insufferable white fire, that vivid lightning, at once so fierce and so intense that none but Saxon., yes possess, flashed broadly forth upon me.  He did not reply to me at first. I repeated my request. He silently took the book, examined the indicated passage, presently solved the diffi- culty, and returned the volume to my hand. As I received it and thanked him, I said, "Mr. Wallraven, we stand in the same class every day. I trust that we shall become better acquainted."  He looked at me inquiringly. 4  , "You know my name. I    am the son of the late Gov., i   J8     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. Fairfield, of Alabama, formerly of Fairfax county, Virginia. VYou, being of that State, probably know something of that family, or of the Be s, who are connections." "Yes, I have heard of the Fairfields of Fairfax, and I know the B   s by reputation."         . "Very well! Now you know who I am, I shall be glad to cultivate your acquaintance, hoping that we may be friends," said I, thinking surely that I had made a favorable impression upon the queer, difficult boy. I was undeceived, however, when, with a dry "Thank you," he dropped the light of his beaming eyes agai- upon his book. I almost fancied I saw two bright spots on the page, like reflections cast from a sun-glass. There was nothing farther for me to do than to turn and leave him. The school-bell also summoned us at that moment to our afternoon studies. My attraction to,'my affection for that strange boy was rising almost to the height of a passion. Never did a lover desire the affections of his sweetheart more than I did the friendship and confidence of my queer outlandish classmate. Never did a lover scheme interviews with his mistress more adroitly than I planned opportunities of conversing with Wolfgang, without seeming to obtrude myself upon him. I felt as if notwithstanding his extreme youth, his rank, and his pride, he was by some circumstance an object of compassion-but respectful compassion-as if, notwithstand- ing his handsome person and fine intellect, he was in reality suffering in heart and brain; and I felt as if, notwithstand- ing his proud reserve with me, I was his necessary medicine. I felt upon the whole not disappointed with his reception of me. At least the ice of non-intercourse was broken, and I might at any time go to him with a Greek exercise and ask his assistance, which was certain to be lent, and at each interview some little progress was sure to be made. It was true that I really never did need his assistance-my classic attainments being good as his own-as he might 4   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     39 have known, had he taken the trouble to think about me at all; but that appeal to his benevolence was the only manner in which it was possible successfully to approach a haughty, reserved, but noble and generous nature, such as I felt his to be-one, too, so determinedly bent upon solitude. What slow progress I made, good heavens! At the end of six months our acquaintance had scarcely progressed beyond occasional conversations, commencing with a Greek root. This was, however, much more ground than any other boy held in his good graces. At the end of the winter session, a very handsome travel- ing-carriage, with the Wallraven arms painted on its panels, drawn by a pair of splendid black horses, a well-dressed colored coachman, and a smart out-rider, arrived to convey Wolfgang "Wallraven away. I thought-nay, I am sure that he betrayed some emotion at parting with me. He went, and I also made hasty preparations to return by stage and steamboat to my distant home in Alabama, where I longed to meet again my lovely and beloved young sister, Regina. The end of the Easter holydays brought me back to school. There, shortly after my arrival, came Wolfgang Wallraven. He was more gloomy, surly, and solitary, than ever, to all the other boys; of me, however, he was more tolerant. Indeed, in the course of a month or so, our acquaintance began to take the form of intimacy; and, as his character began to develop itself to my view, never, I think, did I meet, in life or in books, so strange a being. If I had L'fre been inclined to favor the philosophy of the dual mind, I should then have been in danger of being a convert to that theory. Two natures met, but did not mix or blend in him-two natures as opposite and antagonistical as were his fierce light-gray Saxon eyes and the sweeping jet-black lashes, brows and hair. If any one trait of char- acter stood distinctly out one day, it was certain that its  40     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. very opposite, in hll its strength, and even excess of strength, would reveal itself the next. As his heart gradually, very gradually, unfolded itself to me-or rather to my sympathy, he would occasion me a succession of surprises, and even shocks-pleasing, painful, ecstatic, agonizing, according to the nature and power of new, opposite, and unexpected traits. He possessed the highest order of talent, but exhibited a very erratic application. If, for one week, lie applied himself concentratively to his studies, the next week he would be sure to throw aside his books, and pass into the most. distrait ennuyee, and despairing mood conceivable, from which no remonstrance, no reproof, of the master pro- fessor would arouse him. As time went on, I still made slow, but certaln progress in his affections; little and very precarious ground I held in his confidence; though still, ii his manner to me, as in every thing else, he was inconsistent, contradictory, incom- prehensible, and often astounding. If, upon one occasion, he would treat me with unusual warmth of kindness, upon the next he would be sure to freeze up in the most frigid reserve. He was, indeed, a combination of the most discordant  elements. As I became intimate with him, I witnessed the most stupendous metamorphoses of character. A sovereign, overmastering haughtiness would alternate with a slavish, almost spaniel-like humility; a fierce and wolfish morose- ness of temper give place to an almost womanish tenderness. I confidently, logically expected the time when this frozen ice of his reserve would thaw, and drown me with, his con- fidence; on one particular occasion I felt sure it was coming. I went to his room after school, by appointment. I saw the boy who distributed, or rather carried around the letters through the house, coming down the stairs as I was going up, and, pausing only long enough to take a letter for my- self from him, I hurried on, intending then to excuse   IICKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     41 myself to Wolfgang, and retire to my room to read my letter, which I saw was from my sister. But as I approached his room, the sound of suffocating sobs reached me, and, throwing open the door, I went in and found Wolfgang sitting at his writing-table, his arms extended upon it, his head down upon them, abandoned to the utmost agony of sorrow. I never shed a tear in my life. I saw my beloved mother, my adored father, die, and I suffered the extremity of be- reavement and grief, but never wept, or felt disposed to weep; therefore it was dreadful to me to see a tear in a boy's eye, and here was Wolfgang lost, convulsed with anguish; and sobs and sighs, such sobs and sighs as rive the heart in their passage, bursting from his bosom; and copious tears, such tears as scald like molten lead, wherever they drop, falling from his burning eyem. I saw, yet scarcely saw, an open letter on the floor. My heart sank within me, to see him so violently shaken with agony. I went to him, scarcely knowing whether, in his uncertain mood, he would throw himself into my arms, or knock me down. I went to him, and stooping and speaking low, said, "Wolfgang, my dearest Wolfgang, what is this? Can I in any way comfort or assist you?" I confess that I was surprised when he turned and fell weeping upon my bosom, in the very -collapse of mortal weakness, murmuring, "Yes-yes; comfort me, if you can. I am weak-weak as a child-weak as an infant. Oh! hold me-comfort me -love me! Love me, if you can." I set myself to soothe him. I spent some time seeking to console and sustain him, merely by reiterated assurances of sympathy and constant, unfailing friendship. At last, I asked, "Is there any thing I can do foi you?" "No, nothing! nothing! Only give me your sympathy, or I die! I die! without that support!" \*'   42     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. ' "You have my sympathy, dearest Wolfgang, my adopted brother; but will you not relieve your bosom of its burden of grief; will you not lay it on my breast, that I may help you to bear it I' "Not now! Not now! I cannot." I could only, try to strengthen and soothe him by assur- ances of affection and esteem, until agailn observing the letter, I said, "I see you have a letter, Wolfgang. Is it from home  Are your family all well ". His eyes flew wildly around, and fell upon the letter. He sprang from me, stung to sudden strength, and seizing it, tore it into atoms, and flung it from the window, exclaiming, furiously, while his gray eyes blazed with intolerable light. "By heaven, if it were mel if it were me! that which I deserved and had a right to, I would seize and make my own though Satan himself with all his legions stood be- tween!" "Is this, then, a matter of property, Wolfgang?" "Property! Property!" he echoed, with bitter scorn. "Do you suppose that all the money, all the 'property' in the world is worth one such tear of blood as the millions my heart has dropped to-night? No," he added, with contemp- tuous coolness, "it is not property.'" "Wolfgang," I said, softly, "I have been unjust to fancy for an instant that such a cause could produce such a terri- ble effect; but what is it, then, ny brother '" "Ah! a matter of heart and soul, of life and immortality, of heaven and hell-leave me! I am distracted, delirious- leave me! You see that I am mad!" "Can I not serve you in any manner, Wolfgang" 1 "No! in no way, but in leaving me alone. Some day, perhaps, I will tell you something-not now." I reluctantly left the room, my thoughts still continuing absorbed in Wolfgang and dwelling upon his woe. To have seen him the next morning, no one could believe r               *          *    HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     43 it possible that he would ever, under any circumstances, have yielded to such a tempest of grief, or abandoned himself to such a more than womanish weakness. Dark, erect, haughty, reserved, he seemed, even to me, quite inaccessible. My affection for him was so great, my wiih to do him good so importunate, that, in a few days, I re-essayed to do so. We had been sauntering through the lawn together. We sat down on a bench under the shade of an oak tree. He fell into silence-into gloom. I thought that now was a favorable opportunity. His hands were folded and his eyes bent in abstraction upon a ring, which he then evidently saw not, on his little finger. "Of what are you thinking, Wolfgang?"I asked. He started, turned, flashed on me a broad blaze of sheet lightning from his. gray eyes, and replied with a sneer, "I was thinking whether the coral, or the turquoise, made the prettiest seal ring!" Repelled by his freezing reserve, and almost insulting scorn, I aroso in anger and left him. That night, as I was in my room alone, he suddenly entered, and throwing his arms around me, strained me to his bosom, almost distract- edly, saying. "Bear with me, Fairfield! I could not sleep with an estrangement between us. Bear with me. I am not always the same. I am an embodied war! I am not always my- self!"  The tender, the childish weakness certainly possessed him now. I thought-I wished I knew which was his proper self, and which was the other one--whether the haughty, regnant scornful spirit, or whether the tender, loving, almost infantile natu re, was his own peculiar self. I did not like to be hugged by a boy, either. I never did. There is a physical repulsion about the thing; and I felt the antipathy then, even when the affections of my soul moved so strongly toward him. I returned his embrace in a hurried manner, and then released him, loving him a hundred times more  "     HOIKORY IALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. comfortably, after he had Withdrawn his arms from around my waist, than I did while they encircled me; but then I possessed a cold, he an ardent tenlperament. He left me seemingly the happier for our reconciliation. I certainly was. For the next week or so, the prince was in the as- cendant, and it was perilous to ally one's self-esteem to ap- proach his highness. One day, however, when he seemed unusually gloomy, I took his hand and said, 'Wolfgang, it is useless to try to disguise the fact, or conceal it from one who loves you as well as I do-there is a secret sorrow preying on your breast, eating your heart out-an arrow cankering in your festering bosom--let the hand of friendship, of brotherly love, draw it out and dress the wound." I had better left him alone. Iie turned on me a look of haughty indignation, and said, in a tone of withering scorn. "'A secret sorrow-a festering wound;' what verbal pret- tiness! And then the idea-are you, perchance, a reader of romances, sir t" I was nettled, more especially as I had only my own officious impertinence to blame for the affront;; but people will take vengeance on any one before their own dear selves --so I answered him angrily, "Yes! I am an occasional reader of romances, and they teach me, at least, one lesson of discretion, to wit: that 'where there is much mystery there is more guilt.'" Again the broad sheet lightning of his gray eyes blazed forth consumingly upon my fhce, and he turned whte-whiite  as the ashes of an intensely burning coal. I never saw such a diabolical countenance, in all my life before, nor have I since. He started from me, and for days I saw nothing of him; he was ill, or sullen, in his own room. Thus ended  my last attempt to win his confidence, but not our friendship, 'which such typhoons of passion seemed to shake only to #trepgthening.                       i The summer session was soon over, and we were going a   IICKORY HALL; OR, TIIE OUTCAST.     45 home, not again to return to school, but to enter college. "When we were about to take leave of each other, Wolfgang gave way to his impulsive and passionate nature, and em- braced me cordially again and again, saying, in excuse for his emotion, "We part, Fairfield! We shall never meet again, pro- bably, in this world. I am not going to return here. I am going to college." I was very much affected at his manner. I was surprised, also, at his announcement. "Going to college I What college are you going to " "To Harvard University," he said, embracing me again. "To Harvard . I was to have entered the University of Virginia; but, Wolfgang, why need we part, since we are Damon and Pythias-come you also to the University of Virginia." A thunder, cloud darkened his brow, and once more the vivid lightning flashed from his eyes. "No! Impossible! I cannot go there!" "Cannot?" "Cannot-you understand!" "Your father is obstinate in his own choice of a Univer- sity, irrespective of your taste and wishes?" "My father is the soul of kindness and moderation! But, as you say, he prefers that I should enter Harvard." "Well! my guardian will acquiesce in my wishes in that respect, and as you cannot accompany me to Charlottesville, "I must meet you at Harvard. Aw revoir." We took a brotherly leave of each other, and separated to meet, at the opening of the winter term, at the Uni- versity. When T reached home, my guardian was alarmed at what he called my consumptive looks, attributed it to too much confinement and too severe study, and insisted upon my re- maining at home, visiting my Louisiana relations, or traveling a year before going to the University. My strength, in fact,  . k +  "     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. for the last six months, had suffered some decline, but it had been so gradual that I had scarcely observed it. The change was apparent to those who had seen me in full health a half year previous. Every one likes upon occasion to find themselves an object of interest, especially every one who like me had sadly missed parental affection and solicitude. I had no objection to be petted, coddled and indulged. I was easily persuaded to gihe up the contemplated. seclusion and monotony of the Unyersity for twelve months of pleasing travel-variety. I pass over the incidents of my year of travel, as they have little to do with the subject of my story, with one exception, to wit: I found, on visiting the plantation of my old bachelor uncle in East Feliciana, that he had just taken unto himself a wife-a circumstance that might seriously affect my future in one very important respect, reduce my prospects from those of a millionaire to that of a man of very modest com- petence, such as my moderate patrimony would afford. However, the discovery of the. fact had no effect upon my mind beyond exciting my mirthfulness at the amazing secre- tiveness of the old gentleman about his marriage, for which I' I coutild see no rational cause. Why should he not make X   himself happy at fifty-five? It was late in the day to be sure, and seemed a great deal queerer in an old bachelor who had lived half a century in single blessedness than it would have looked in a widower even older. The probable loss of the heirship of his wealth gave me no sort of uneasi- ness. The mercenary capacities of a youth of eighteen are not usually expanded enough to take the extent, strong enough to weigh the specific gravity, or shrewd enough to estimate the value of millions. All they want, at present is plenty of pocket money for passing fancies and follies. My twelve months of freedom expired, and, with invigor- ated health and renewed ardor for study, I prepared to enter Hlarvard University.  It was at the opening of the winter term that I reached    HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     47' that place, and there I met again Wolfgang Wallraven, so changed as to be-no, not as to be unrecognizable, for is dark and wild individuality would have revealed itself through all atmospheres. But could this tall, dignified, self-possessed, and graceful young gentleman be indeed the development of that fierce, morose boy, with his sudden gushes of tenderness, his col- lapses of utter weakness, and his prostrations of despair? And could this be the work of only a year  I inquired how long he had been at the University. He replied, twelve months; adding that he had remained there during the intermission between the two terms. "That is it," thought I. "There is something in that home of his that. warps, degrades, and stunts him. Ever after going home, he has returned more acrid, morose, fierce,  and dangerous, than before. That home! What an interest it has for me! With what a glamour it attracts me! I  wish he would invite me to it!" As time passed, I' discovered that the character of Wall- raven had undergone a change, or perhaps only an apparent change, scarcely less surprising than that of h is person and manners; the wild and wayward tempe r, the fierce out- breaks of passion, the morose surliness, were gone or gov- erned; the fitful, loving; tender, childlike nature had dis- appeared, or was suppressed; the almost servile humility with which, without giving me his confidence, he  would cast himself upon my sympathy for su pport-fits of feeble- ness, or idiocy, that almost fatally betrayed his nobler nature, were utterly sunk, and the haughty, the regnant spirit had risen upon it. 'There was an air of regal beauty, of commanding grace, in his person and manner, such as I have never since seen in but one other m an. The prince had certainly gained the permanent ascendency, and now governed the whole inner kingdom, once so d scordant con- flicting, and  rebellious. And Yet-yet-there were times when certain gleams   48   H, ICKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. from his eyes seemed to warn me that all that was worst and most dangerous in his character was'not dead, but sleeping, and gathering gigantic strength in repose; that some day, and under some circumstances, the fiend within him might break out with terrible and destroying fury. Our mutual esteem and affection constantly increased. He was my confidant at least, and if I were not his, my more matured reason convinced me that it was because the secrets of his bosom, whatever they were, could not be im- parted, but he compensated me by the most devoted affection. : At the end of the term, I invited, besought him to accompany me home; but he declined the visit. I thought that he might possibly return the courtesy by a similar in- vitation to me, which en passant I should certainly have accepted; but'he did not. To be brief, we spent a year and a half together at college before either of us knew any thing personally of the family of the other. At the end of every term, I renewed my invitation, which he always declined. At the close of our third term, as a matter now of habit more than of expectation, I invited him to go home with me, and, to my surprise and delight, he accepted my invita- tion, and prepared to accompany me. It was while we were on our journey that I told him my sister, Regina, would be home for' the holydays, and that, above all things, I was desirous of presenting him to her, my "Queen of beauty," my "' fair one with golden locks."    Yet that fair lady's eye methinks hath less Of deep and still and pensive tenderness ' Than might beseem thy sister's-on her brow Something too much there sits of native scorn, And her smile kindles witI a conscious glow As from the thought of sovereign beauty born.-Mrs. Hemans.   "THE Fair One, with Golden Locks,"'was the title of a beautiful fairy tale of an enchanted princess, of which my sister Regina used to be very fond; and in gay reference to ler penchant for this, and in compliment to her high style of blonde beauty, we gave her this sobriquet. We also called her "Queen Blanche," in flattery of her regal grace, and her exceeding, her wonderful fairness. She was, in fact, the very fairest living thing I ever saw. You have seen the wreck! amazing beautiful, even in ruins; but that thing bears no more resemblance to my resplendent Regina, than does the charred skeleton of the lightning-blasted tree to the green and stately mountain pine-heaven receive her! To return. I had not seen my sister Regina for two years; during which time she had been absent at a "Finishing School." I was therefore curious as anxious to meet her, now that she had returned home permanently.  I wished to see what these two years, friom sixteen to eighteen, spent at the finish- ing school, had done for her, who, bating pride, already ; embodied my idea of womanly perfection. We reached our journey's end. It was late in  a lovely March day, that we arrived at Willow Hill. We had changed our traveling dresses for   50     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. drawing-room costume, at the little town of A  , two miles distant, while waiting for the carriage that was to meet us there. Therefore, upon our arrival, we were ushered at once into my sister's presence' who was already expecting us. Much as I was prepared for improvement, I confess I was sur- prised, delighted, and somewhat abashed, at the sight of the elegant and majestic-looking woman awaiting our approach. She sat erect, but at ease, in a high-backed arm-chair, dovered with purple velvet, whose dark, rich back-ground threw out her beautiful and graceful form in fine relief. She was arrayed in rich white satin, whose glossy and ample folds, descending to her feet, merely permitted the tip of one tiny embroidered slipper to be visible. Her arm and neck, -fairer than the satin itself, were bare, except for being deli- cately shaded by falls of the richest and finest lace, and en- circled by pearl bracelets and necklace. Her hair, her "golden locks," were rolled off from her temples in rich and heavy folds a la Pompadour, and bound back by oriental pearls, exposing a brow of frosty fairness and sovereign pride. There was a coldness inr this statuesque dignity of my sister that preqvented me from meeting her with any demonstration of fraternal love, or joy. I think I met her then,'as I should /iave met any other "proud ladie" to whom I might have been introduced, and then I turned, and, presenting my college friend, named, "Mr. Wallraven, of Virginia." Regina slightly inclined her graceful head, in acknowl- edgment of WaNlraven's profound and deferential bow, and raising her eyes with a quick, arid quickly withdrawn glance, held out her hand -to welcome him to Willow Hill, saying, graciously, "I know the Willravens, of Hickory Hall, by reputa- tion ". Here Wolfgang gawe a violent start, reeled as under an unexpected and overwhelming blow, made a mighty effort   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     51 and recovered his self-command, all in the passage of a few seconds, while I looked inquiringly at Regina, and she, with calm surprise, regarded him. "Will you' be seated, Mr. Wallraven, and you Ferdi- nandt" she said. We sat down; and Regina, possibly to fill an awkward pause lln the conversation, observed, "Yes-I know the Wallravens of Hickory Hall, by his- tory and report. Wolfgang Wallraven, your American an- cestor and namesake, sir, I have heard my father say, was a Lutheran refugee, who came to Virginia in the company of his intimate friend, our ancestor Lord B  , and who, as long as his lordship remained governor of Virginia,-retained a place in his council. I hope, sir, that we may became better known to each other."' On concluding these gracious words, my princess raised her eyes to those of Wallraven; but they swiftly fell again, while the faintest color dawned on her fair cheek. Wall- raven had bowed, and bowed, at the close of every conde- scending sentence; but now, when common civility required him to say something, he was dumb. I came to his relief. "Miss Fairfield," said I, "is quite at fait to the early history, antiquities, and traditions of the Old Dominion, for which she has a great veneration. She is rich in legendary lore, and, though born in Alabama, evidently considers Vir- ginia her mother country, and infinitely prefers it to her native soil." "For many excellent reasons, without a doubt," said Wallraven, with a bow toward my fair queen, who, with her snowy eyelids drooped till hfr long golden lashes rested on her delicately roseate cheek, remained 'silent. Now I came to her succor. "Regina likes the conservative pridp of the Old Domi- nion-the prevalence of old English feeling-family pride, which mother England herself has outlived, but that still survives in her-eldest daughter, Virginia, the child that most    52     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST, resembles her. It is a prejudice-an anti-republican thing, contrary to the spirit of the nineteenth century. You are lagging behind the age, Regina, but you will get over this." A cold smile chilled the fair face of my sister, who deigned no other reply. "This is not so, lady, my friend exaggerates; these are not your sentiments," said Wallraven, in his deep, rich tones, and with a manner in which was strangely blended deprecation and dignity. She quietly raised those golden eyelashes, to drop them ,again instantly, as she replied, "Yes! since I am constrained to confess it; and surely I may do so without offense in the presence of one of so old and pure a stock as the Wallravens, of Hickory Hall, whose Emily can -be traced back to the time of the Saxon Hep- tarchy. Yes! I do think, that the much ridiculed family pride of Maryland and Virginia, ridiculed, however, only by i vulgar wits among the nouveaux riches of other states, is, at least, far more worthy of respect than the low pride of new wealth, or appearance of wealth, which is oftentimes no more than superficial finery. The ancient pride of the old families of Maryland and Virginia is assuredly well grounded.  Many of them, the Wallravens among the rest," (inclining her head graciously to Wolfgang,) " are assuredly descended i from the very flower of the old English aristocracy-many among them dating back to a period long anterior to the Norman Conquest, and numbering in their line some of the most illustrious among the warriors, statesmen, and church- j men of England-noble scions of noble houses, who, for their conservatism, and attachment to the ancien regime, were driven out by that fanatical spirit of radicalism which, i even in the reign of James, began to manifest itself in Great i Britain."                        "It is true lady, that the rich valleys and plains of Mary-! : land and Virginia were settled by a very different set of 'i A.,   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.    i 53 men, actuated by a very opposite set of motives, to those that sent the hardy Puritans to the sterile shores of New England; and that may go far to account for different lomestic and social manners, and a different state policy." "I confess I prefer the ancestral pride of a Virginia lanter to the purse pride of a Yankee pedler." "Those are extreme cases, lady." "Sir, have you no pride of ancestry? Is it not a matter CeIf-esteem  to you, that your remote progenitor was a aixn noble instead of being a Saxon serf?") "No, lady, it is not a matter of pride to me," said Woif-  ng, in a tone so mournful, that I looked anxiously upon m. "I own, I honor New England for the perfectly vel platform . on which all her sons stand with equal rhts." ;"Let us change the subject," said I. 'With pleasure," said Regina; and, turning to Wolf- lg, she asked, "Do you like music, Mr. Wallraven? I re a very rich toned piano forte, in fine tune just now."  Wolfgang instantly declared a passion for music, and, as Iina arose, he offered her his arm, to take her across room; but she declined the civility with a stately incli- on of the head, and, dropping her golden eyelashes, ?t on alone in sovereign grace and beauty, and seated elf before the instrument. We followed her. Wolf- ftook a  station at the back of her chair, to turn the a  s of her music-book. She played and sung several ,Is in a  very masterly style; but they were all of one  icter--grand, martial, heroic. At the end of the last   , the folding doors were thrown open, and a  servan ared, and announced supper. Now rising, and again eously declining the  offered arm  of Wallraven, and ag on  alone in her regal pride and purity, she preceded the supper-room.    , ;er supper -we adjourned to the drawing-room, where tssed the evening in conversation. in mranrt. ;in , . .-- ^T^^^C:^^                 I   54     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. amination of new books, prints, such articles of vertu as were scattered around, and in projecting plans for the next day's occupation and amusement; no very difficult thing for three young persons alone in a country house together, for our guardian was absent. Soon after this we separated for the night. I accompanied Wolfgang to his room. "Well, Wallraven," said I, as soon as we were alone, "How do you like my sister I Is she' all my fancy painted her,' or am I a blind enthusiast '" "Brothers are, of all persons, the least apt to be," dryly replied Wolfgang, who seemed -to be threatened with a return of his old boyish surliness. "And brothers' friends are in no danger of becoming so," said I, good humoredly. Without noticing my last remark, he said, in the slow, oracular tone of a judge balancini the weight of every word. ".Miss Fairfield is beautiful-she is BEAUTY; but, like the mountain snow, she is high, cold, pure, fair, frosty." Ah!" said I, " the least lovely of tegina's traits of char- acter has revealed itself this evening. Lofty principles, lIigh-toned sense of honor, perfect truthfulness, large bene- volence, generosity, a rich and well cultivated intellect-the treasures of the heart and mind-remain to be. discovered!" "Fairfield! don't fling your sister into my arms so deter- minately, lest I catch her!" replied Wallraven, with a sar- castic smile that raised my anger to such a pitch as very nearly to .make me forget that he was my guest. I replied I n a cold and haughty tone- "Miss Fairfield is not a woman to be thrown or caught, or by any means to suggest such a thought." "Of course not!' It is you who suggest it! Pooh, Fair- field! 'an arrow from Cupid's bow'-to express the thing as you would express it-is ligltly quivering in my flesh. I can easily pluck it out and cast it from me, if you will "I'   HCKORY HALL; OR, TIE OUTCAST.     55 allow me to do so. Do not you drive it to my heart, impale me with it-for nothing would ensue but death! Miss Fair- field will probably bestow her hand upon some 'magnificent son of Achar' who will be quite worthy of her!" "I should like to know what you mean by presuming to consider what I have said to you in the light you do. What right have you to do so!" "Only the right of knowledge, a fatal gift of insight into the hearts of otlers, and a dangerous habit of reading aloud what I find written therein," he replied, with a mournful sar- casm. I looked at him from lead to foot. He was sitting in an easy chair, with his hands joined on his knees, his brigand- looking head bent forwards his piercing eyes fixed on the floor, and his vail of jet-black hair falling forward and shad- ing his darkling countenance. There was so much bitter sorrow in his attitude, expression, and tone, that my displea- sure fled.  "Wolfgang!" said I, "what is it that makes me love you so "You say the most exasperating things to me, and then disarm my wrath, by a look, a tone?" "What-is it, perhaps, that you feel I am your friend' Fairfield, niy dear fellow, put me in no future plans of your own. Thle greatest injury I could do myself, the greatest a benefit I could confer upon you, is to tell you this. Leave- me. Good night!" We met next morning early. Like most houses in this neighborhood, our house had long piazzas, up stairs and down, running around three sides of the house, with the front room windows all opening on hinges upon them. Therefore, as I opened my chamber door and' stepped out upon the piazza, I saw that Wallraven had come out of his room and was promenading there. He turned, smiling, to meet me, took my arm, and said something complimentary of the " beautiful country," now in full spring bloom, thoulgh the month was March. After promenading there for some  56     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. time, enjoying the pure morning air and the extensive pros- pect, we went below and entered the morning room. It was a long, handsomely-furnished apartment. Regina was standing at the upper end of the room, at- tended by two maid-servants, to whom she was giving some direction, and who, as we entered, left her, and passed out by a side door. , Regina came to meet us. She wore a pure white morn- ing dress of some very transparent light tissue, with the skirt made very full, whose gossamer folds floated gracefully  with every movement of her queenly form. Her golden hair was rolled back from her snowy forehead, as on the evening before, only, instead of the jeweled bandeau, it was bound by a narrow white ribbon. She held in her hand a few white lilies, whose perfume filled the air. If I could find a word to express the union of the loftiest hauteur with the clearest purity and the most aerial delicacy, I would use that word to describe Regina, as, wafting fragrance with every motion, she floated on to meet us. "Do you like lilies, Mr. Wallraven? These are the first the gardener has sent me. They are very fine," she said, separating one from her bunch and offering it to Wolfgang. "It is your favorite flower, Miss Fairfield." "Why do you think so?" "They resemble you-more! they express you!" Regina dropped those white eyelids again, and, moving on before us, said, "Come, then, and I will show you how much I like  lilies ;" and, leaving the room, she floated on, followed by us, through the wide hall, and into an elegant little b6udoir, whose glass doors opened upon a small but beautiful garden of white lilies, in the centre of which was a clear pond, its borders fringed with the white lilies, and its waters reflect- ing the graceful forms of two white swans that sailed upon its bosom.  "This is the way I like lilies."  9   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.      57  "And all things that express elegance, purity, and pride," said Wolfgang, pointing to the swans. "Yes, the unity and harmony of purity, pride, and ele- gance, revealed itself in Regina's whole being-her form, features, and complexion-her tastes, habits, and occupa- tions. We spent the hour before breakfast in the boudoir. Soon after breakfast another little incident occurred that exhibited my sister's worst trait in rather an unfavorable light. We had returned to the morning room to await the horses, which were ordered to be brought round at ten for us to take a ride over the plantation. We were passing the few moments in conversation, wlen we saw a handsome barouche drawn by a pair of splendid dappled grays ap- proach, and stop before the house. In an instant I saw Regina's lip curl with that supercilious expression, all but too familiar in her countenance, and she said, "It is the carriage of Mrs. and the Misses O'Blemmis. Ferdinand, do you remember them ' "I do not, my dear." "No, truly. Mr. Wallraven, five years ago a young Irishman by the name of O'Blemmis was engaged as tutor to the only son of the late Colonel Sumner, of Hyde Place. He was a puny boy, and died, but the Irishman, who did not drink, married the boy's sister, got the estate, and brought out his mother and half a dozen of his own sisters to help him enjoy it. You shall presently see them all. And by the way, Mr. Wallraven, here is a thing I have seldom seen or heard observed of Irish character, and yet my own observation of this proves the truth of it to my own mind, viz.; whenever a young Irishman comes to America, and is temperate, he makes sooner or later, by perseverance or by coup-de-main, a fortune. Here they are." And the door was thrown open, and the servant an- nounced, "Mrs. O'Blemmis, Miss O'Blemmis, Miss Bridget O'Blemmis;" and those ladies entered.  5t8   aHCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. My sister received them with something more than hau- teur, which they were certainly too acute too misunderstand, while they were too politic to resent. Wallraven and my- self exerted our conversational powers as an atonement for Miss Fairfield's coldness.          ' I am not going to tire you with a report of the visit that tired me. I mentioned it merely to remark, that after this visit-throughout the ride, and indeed throughout the day- Wallraven's manners to Regind were marked by a freezing respect, somewhat similar to that she had shown the O'Blem- imises, and that this slightly discomposed the air of elegant ease that ever distinguished Miss Fairfield. On our return home that evening, Wallraven retired early to his chamber, which he likewise kept during the greater part of the next day, excusing himself upon the plea of having letters to write home. This gave me the first op- portunity I had had since my return of being alone with my sister. We talked of family matters first. She informed me that our uncle's young wife had a fine son, which fact, though it cut us off from an immense fortune, did not afilict us much. ,Our mercenary years had not come. Then we talked of Wallraven. Regina acknowledged then, what I am sure she would not have confessed a month later, that she had found Wallraven exceedingly interesting. "Yes, Ferdinand, the most absorbing person that ever engaged my thoughts! What an air he -has! too dark, far too dark and tragit for society; yet one sees that it has its cause in some sternest, hardest truth. His face is so fill of expression, and so deep in interest. His countenance affects me with a creeping terror such as one feels in looking down  at night into a profound abyss. And then his moods are so  opposite and coiitradictory: at one time he has the majestic air of a monarch in the full sway of his power; at another, that of a slave, And in the most favorable mood he has that air of passive defiance, of proud humility, such as might   HCKORY IIALL; OR, TIIE OUTCAST.    59 become a dethroned prince as he bows his royal neck, and lays his uncrowned head upon the block! And in every action there is such earnest, such profound truth!" "He is a strange being, full of discord. Yes, his soul is the ' profound abyss' to which you have likened his ex- pression of countenance, with the night of a deep sorrow darkening it forever!" "This is really so 1t "Really and truly so; and has been so ever since first I knew him when he was a boy ," "And the nature of his sorrow?" "I do not know-cannot even conjecture. I have been his bosom friend for years, and lhe has never confided it to me. I have exhausted every honorable means of dis- covering, and cannot find the sligltest clue. Of one thing, however, I am positively certain, that guilt has nothing to do with his calamity. I feel that in a thousand instincts! And when I say that, I mean neither his guilt, the idea of which would be preposterous, nor tlat of his parents." "I believe you! 'The name of the Wallravens has for centuries been the synonym for an almost chivalric virtue, for an almost romantic standard of honor. Upon account of their absolute purity they havye been twitted with 'knight errantry.' This Wolfgang, how  he occupies me! Oh! Ferdinand, after all, you have not been a friend, or you would have disburdened his heart of this secret before l now!   "Thalt is all you know of the matter, my dear Regina I I have exposed myself to insult more than once in trying to serve him; but never since we met at Harvard." Regina did not reply to this, but fell into deep thought, which lasted some moments; then, with a. profound but involuntary sigh, she rose and left the room to dress for the evening. Wallraven joined us in the drawing-room in the evening; and I, with a view of making the next day pass more gaily   60     HCKORY IALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. than tlis had done, proposed various projects of amusement, Among other plans, I suggested that we should ride to town the next morning, and spond the day, and go in the evening to the theatre, to see Booth play Othello. Regina at once and most decisively vetoed this proposition. "It must necessarily be the most loathsome of all con- ceivable exhibitions!" she said, "and I wonder how its representation n upoany stage should be tolerated for a single hour." The plan was of course abandoned, and another substi- tuted in its place. Soon after that we separated for the night. One discovery in physics and metaphysics, I had made in the course of this week, to wit: that love at first sight was a fact, and no poetic fiction. Regina, with all her cold hauteur, could. not, to save her soul alive, raise her eyes to meet, Wolfgang's; and Wallraven's deep bass tones trem- bled when he spoke to her. I was pleased. Regina's first passion. was aristocracy, her second, Old Virginia. Here, then, was a young gentleman of a family that she herself had placed among the oldest and most aristo- cratic in the state, he himself the most distinguished- looking of his distinguished race, and his large patrimonial estate lying in the richest and Most beautiful region of country, and in the midst of the most wealthy and aristo- cratic neighborhood in the Old Dominion-among those who had been the friends and relatives of her proud family for centuries past. Could I have chosen a destiny for my fair, proud) sister, it would have been this. Could Regina have chosen a fate for herself, it would have been this. And Wallraven-to adore, or not to adore Regina, was now no matter of volition with him!  Let me hurry on. We remained at Willow Hill six weeks.   uring this time I could not fail to observe the deep and eve, deepening interest with which my friend and. my sister regarded each   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     61  other, nor the anxiety with which each constantly sought to conceal these sentiments from the other. Regina's manner was cold and haughty; Wallraven's, distant and reserved. Yet Wallraven would grow pale as death, if her hand but chanced to touch him; and Regina would suddenly tremble if he suddenly came in her sight. Every week Wallraven's gloom deepened, while Regina's delicate color faded. I was provoked with both. Why should Regina act the empress and exaggerate. the part so abominably; and why should Wallraven be so easily flouted off-so backward.- for that appeared to me then to be the position of affairs between them. As the day of departure drew near, they treated each other with the most frigid coldness. The last day of our stay at length arrived. We remained at home all day, preparing for our departure. We were to ride to A  , to meet the stage, as it passed at five o'clock the next morning. To effect this, we were to leave the house at four. We were to take leave of Regina over night. Regina, Wallraven, and myself passed the evening to- gether in the drawing-room. Regina gave us music, but I saw that her touch was inaccurare, and that her voice trem- bled. It had been arranged that we should retire early, to be in time for the stage, so, at ten o'clock, I gave the signal, and we arose. I went to Regina, to bid her adieu. She was fearfully, ghastly white, and trembling so that she was compelled to grasp the chair for support. I took her hand: it was cold, and he-heavy-pressed it to my lips, and turned away. Wallraven approached her, to take his leave. He coldly received the hand she coldly extended to him. Both raised their eyes simultaneously-their gaze, full of anguish, full of mutual reproach, of mutual inquiry-met-and then- suddenly, in an instant, forgetful of time, place, and circum-   62     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. stances--forgetful of etiquette and propriety--utterly obliv- ious of my presence and observation-he madly, passion- ately, caught her, strained her to his bosom, pressing a kiss onher face, while she dropped her head upon his breast, and, bursting into tears, sobbed convulsively, hysterically. He lifted and bore her to the sofa, laid her there, kneeled by her side, squeezing her hands, stroking her brow and hair, murmuring words. of passionate devotion and tender- ness! I was de trop-I felt it. I went out, but scarcely had I time to reach my own chamber, before I heard Wolfgang run up the stairs, and, bursting his door open, rush in, and, clang it to behind him. I scarcely wondered at any eccen- tricity of Wallraven's! I set down this piece of conduct to the wildness of joy.   Mentally resolving that our journey must now be" de- ferred a day or two, and that therefore there was no longer a necessity of hastening to bed, I went down into the draw- ing-room, for the purpose of finding and congratulating my sister. The drawing-room was vacant, she had gone to her chamber. I returned to mine in a well satisfied frame of mind; but I wished to see Wallraven again. Before retiring to bed that night I tapped at his door, and then without waiting for leave, and with the freedom of old friendship, I pushed the door open, anL entered the room, Good heaven! were the old horrid days of the preparatory school come back, and with a vengeance, too! He was sit- ting bolt upright at the foot of his bed, his hands on his knees, his open gray eyes staring into vacancy, his black locks hanging wildly, elf-like, about his livid and haggard cheeks, his whole appearance cold, stiff, corpse-like. A blood-guilty and unconverted criminal on the eve of his execution-a man'in a cataleptic fit-one struck dead by a thunderbolt-might sit so rigid, statue-like, still. My very blood ran cold with a vague horror, as I looked at him, N   # HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST      63 Terrified for his health, for his life, I sprang toward him, seized his frozen hands, gazed into his stony eyes, placed my hand upon his death-like brow. At that touch a shudder ran all over him, relaxing the rigidity of his form, and he laughed! Such a sardonic, such a maniac, such a devilish laugh, I neyer heard in my life before, and never wish to hear again! It was not loud, but long, low, and bitter. Dreadfully alarmed for his sanity, I exclaimed, "In the name of heaven, Wallraven, what is the matter ' speak! Tell me, I conjure you!" Again the shudder, again the long, low, and bitter laugh, and then he said, "Am  I not a Wallraven, whose family dates back to a period anterior to the Saxon Heptarchy?" iazed at him in a fixed horror. He seemed to know my thoughts, for he replied to them sardonically, "I am not mad, most noble Festus,.but speak the words of truth and soberness. Askl that snow queen of beauty, your fair, proud sister!" I was spell-bound by grief and terror. I could not stir. I gazed at him. 'I am not mad I I would to heaven I were I For then 'tis like I should forget myself. Oh I if I oould, what grief should I forget t I am not mad I This hair I tear is mine," he declaimed, travestying the lines with sardonic exaggera- tion, and finishing with a shouting laugh of mockery. "Oh! heaven! but this is horrible! Wallraven! Wall- raven!" "I am not mad!" he said, with an omnipotent effort that at length sent apart the curdled blood in his veins, and dis- persed the storm clouds that darkened over his spirit. "Oh! Wolfgang! Wolfgang! you are not mad, but you will become so. You will inevitably become so if this secret suffering of yours recommences and augments so fearfully!? said I.  \                            .   "    HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. A spasm convulsed his frame. He dropped his head upon his hands, and his stringy black locks fell forward, vailing both. "Oh! Wallraven, my heart's dearest brother, is there no way in which I can relieve, can serve youl" Again the spasm shook lim., "I will not, as in the days' of my thoughtless boyhood, ask you for your secret, my soul's dear Wolfgang, but " "But I will tell youl I will tell you!" he exclaimed, des- perately, "tell you while my good angel has power over me  while her escape is possible! tell you the dark and fatal thing that has burned, blighted, blasted me and mine for- ever! Listen!" CHAPTER FOURTHt. THE REVELATION, WELL, I listened eagerly, too eagerly. He paused, dropped his head upon his hands, and seemed to be diving into the past. Deep silence reigned between us, broken only by the r supernaturally loud ticking of the chamber clock, hurrying on toward midnight. There he sat upon the foot of the bed, his elbows resting on his knees, his face buried in the palms of his hands, his stringy, jet black locks falling forward, shudder after shudder' shaking his frame! "Poor fellow! he does not know how to begin,"'"thought I, and waited anxiously some time, a feeling of delicacy with- holding me from interrupting him, until I found, by the cessation of his shudders and the perfect immobility of his form, that he had fallen into a fit of deep abstraction, and that his thoughts were far, far from me. Then, after some * .-f   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.      65 hesitation, I recalled him, by a word spoken in a low, gentle tone,                     c "Wallraven!" He started slightly, raised his shaggy black head, and gazed upon me from his light gray eyes, with the bewilder- ing look of one awakened from a deep sleep, with a dream still overshadowing his spirits. "Wallraven!" said I again, in a still kinder tone, "you were-about to give me  " "'1t a! ha! ha! 1, thou son of Eve! Never tell me of woman's curiosity! We have not a bit, have we?" laughed he, inl the most sarcastic and exasperating manner. You will wonder, perhaps, at the strange patience I had with that bitter and sardonic youth; but, in truth, I was mlllF)ailed than angry at is sarcastic and insulting tone, fb  Lder all was betrayed  the profoundest sorrow, the acutest suffering. I felt the same compassionate toleration for his ill-temper, that we feel for the irritability of any dearly loved sufferer. I replied, gently, "I did not solicit your confidence, Wolfgang.  It was voluntarily proffered on your part; and I tell you now, that unless by so doing I can very materially seive you, I have no wish to pry into your secrets, fuirther than fidelity to nmyv sister's interests under existing circumstances seems to re- quire." "To what existing circumstances do you refer?" lhe asked quickly. "To your relations, or implied relations, with Miss Fair- field."         "And what do you suppose them to be " "From   what I witnessed this evening, I presume that you are engaged," I  replied, gazing at him with anxious scrutiny. "You are wrong-we are pot engaged!" "Not!   Is it possible that Regina -has rejected you?" "No; for I have not offered her my hand." 4   "     mICKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. "W What! not! Then you intend to do so at the first op- "No  I have nlo iltention of ever offering myself to Miss Fairtield!" Then, by heaven! much as I have forgiven you upon my own account, you shall first give me tatisfaction for your unpardonable conduct of this evening, and then swear never to offend Miss Faifield by coming into her presence again." "Oh! Ferdinand, my fine fellow, don't flare up. You do not know what you are talking about!" "I say I will have satisfaction!" "And so you shall; any and every satisfaction you please, and as much of it as you please! Come, I will fight, or tapologize, as you will." "Sir, you are my guest. I beseech you, with all le- nient speed that you put yourself in some more praa; le relation to the brother of the woman you have offlended, that lie may " "Blow my brains out with a better grace? "Call you to a strict account for your proceedings of this evening." 'I have betrayed friendship, trust, hospitality; I merit death! Shoot me where I sit, Ferdinand. I wish you would!" "You are mad.:" "[ kissed her twenty times, Ferdinand, and I never intend to marry her, Come, why don't you shoot me ." "'You are a lunatic-you are not responsible fore any word or act," said I, and I was beginning to feel so. If I had been ever' so angry with him, my resentment would have vanished, whenl with one of his sudden changes of mood he dropped his head upon my shoulder, and sobbed and wept like the melting of an avalanche, gasping between whi].es, in low, earnest, fervent, ilntexrupted tones, "I love and worship ,your beautiful and haughty sister! Love her because she is falix, worship her because she is q3   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     67 proud! Yes! yes! I worship the ground she walks-on-for it is holy ground! the pebble her foot, spurns-for it is a precious stone I Words! words! breath! airl Look you! People have talked about dying for their beloved! I am doing it! I am doing it!" Language cannot convey theheart-rending tone in which these words were spoken. He went on, "Yes, yes! I will account for my ' conduct' of this even- ing! I ha(d firmly repressed my feelings for six weeks. I thought the danger over, or well nigh over! 'I went up to her to-night, to bid her adieu, with the stern determination of never, never seeing her again.  She held out her hand- looking up to me with her beautiful, bewildering, madden- ing eyes--eloquent with love, sorrow, reproach, inquiry- aqI&he great tide of long-suppressed emotion rushed in, fi:Pl my heart, flooding my brain, bearing down and sweep- ing away reason, memory, understanding! and I did and said -somne maniac things! Come, shoot me, if you please! Yes, I will meet you when and where you please, and bare my bosom to your knife or ball, but never raise my hand against you, my brother, my heart's dear brother! In the nanme of heaven, then, why don't you speak to me?" ' Because I have nothing to say. I am mystified and miserable " "Yet, oh! do not shUt up your heart to me! do not! You love me! do not, therefore, lay up remorse for all your long future life, by harshness to me now-for look you! my life will be short.-my death violent! I know it! Speak to "Alas! Wallraven, what shall I say You entreat me not to shut up my heart to you. I do not do it. On the con- trary, it is you who close yours to me. Yet do not misun- ,derstand me, I do not complain of this, though the passion you have declared for my sister-a passion that, I see but too clearly exists, and is reciprocated--m aizes me extremely anxious, upon account of Regina, when I reflect upon the   68"    HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. dark mystery which you confess has blighted your own life, and dread may blight hers!" He dropped his head upon my shoulder again, and with a huge heart sob gasped, "I cannot! I cannot! I cannot, by the broken heart of my dead mother! by the smitten brow of my gray-haired father! I cannot reveal to you this blasting mystery! I have tried hard this evening to tell you, and the words I stick in my throat!. But this I will promise you-never to see Miss Fairfield again! Ah! you cannot guess the suffering I bring myself, the suffering I withhold from you, on maldking this promise!" "I do not demand such a promise; yet-but, Wolfgang, such a demand will depend upon your reception of a ques- tion I am about to ask you, which you may answer o0g]ot, as you see fit. This dark secret-is it connected witlwilt or with disease!" "No!, no! no! God knows, that whatever may be their other misfortunes, the Wallravens are physically, mentally, and morally sound!" "Why, so I have always heard of them. They are even proverbial for those qualities. Now, in the name of heaven, give me your hand, my dear Wolfgang! Win Regina if you can! I feel sure that your distress, whatever it may be, is morbid. Nonsense! Love and friendship will cure you. What! Young, healthy, handsome, moral, intelligent, ac- complished, wealthy, and of high rank, loving and beloved, with no one to cross your wishes--what should trouble you? I begin to think you are a mere hypochondriac"--and so I really did. You will pronounce this' hasty confidence very wrong- so it doubtless was; but I loved Wolfgang Wallraven with more than a brother's love; I was by nature trusting to a fault; I was inexperienced; and I have expiated the error by suffering in every vein of my heart and brain! The next morning we set out on our return to the North,   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     69 Wolfgang insisting upon our going, as previously arranged. I had stopped at Regina's door, to see if possibly she was up, but all was dark and silent in her room. We left without seeing her again. We reached the University some time after the commence- ment of the term, and had to apply ourselves with double vigor and perseverance to our studies, in order to make up for lost time. From the time of our re-entrance into college, Wallraven was every thing that the most exacting and fastidious friend could desire him to be-calm, self-possessed, dignified, gra- cious--though seldom, perhaps never, cheerful. He never voluntarily mentioned Regina to me; and if ever I would name her to him, he would govern a strongly rising emotion, an^djy, As Milton toiled for fame, as Napoleon toiled for donjon, so I   toil for Regina! One day, when wealth and 'fame and power and dominion---such dominion as God gives genius-are mine, I  may win her! When I  have power to place her in the highest rank of society, in the most civilized city in a' yet uncivilized world, then I will ask her to share her fate with mine--not till then!" or something like it. He did toil. He gained the highest approbation, the honor of the professors. The most brilliant auguries were drawn for his future. I  Phared them. I felt his power. I felt that if he could once conquer a peace in his own bosom, he might become just what he pleased. As for Regina, she never mentioned him in any of her letters to me.; but I klnew too well that he was not forgotten, by the tone of sadness that pervaded all her expressed thoughts and feelings. , N\   CHAPTER FIFTH. THE INSIDE OF THE OLD HALL. ,c A lonesome lodge, That stands so low in lonely glen, The grim, tall windowes, dim and darke, Are hung with Ivy brier and Yewe; No shimmering sun here ever shone, No halesome breeze here ever blewe, No child, no matron, may you spye, No cheerful host. "-Percy's Reliques. THE'winter vacation approached, and I once more pressed Wallraven to return home with me and spend Chris ias. He declined the invitation, and, to my surprise and delight, invited me to accompany him to his own home in Virginia. I accepted his proffered hospitality with much pleasure, and, writing to Regina not,to expect me there during the holi- days, I prepared to accompany Wolfgang to Hickory Hall. I cannot tell you with what interest, with what highly excited curiosity, I set out upon this journey to the interior of Virginia. I do net know what I expected to find; I only know that an old, very old and unknown country house always possessed a mystic charm for me; and here was one that, with its own peculiar mystery, took hold of both affec- tion and imagination. .We journeyed by stage until we reached Washington city. f' There, at the Indian Queen Hotel, we met Mr. Wallra- ven's handsome traveling carriage, with the splendid black  horses, the well-dressed coachman, and mounted out-rider. Early upon the morning succeeding our arrival at Wash- ington city, we set out for the Valley of Virginia. You know how wild and beautiful, how savage and sublime the (70)   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     71 scenery becomes, as you approach the Blue Ridge. We traveled by easy stages, and were two days in reaching the grand pass of the Bear's Walk. It was the evening of the second day when we began slowly to ascend the mountain. It was. nearly pitch dark. Floating masses of black, heavy, and lowering clouds obscured every ray, even of starlight. It was intensely, bitingly cold. Down from our right opened, as it seemed, to the very centre of the earth, a vast profound abyss of blackness, cloud, and shadow, from the depths of which gleamed fitfully a lurid stream of red light, flitting hither and thither as we moved, like a jack-o'-lantern, amid the blackness of that ocean of shadows. "That is our destination, that is my home-Hickory Hall"-said Wallraven, pointing to the elfish light. 'that! How in the name of Providence are we to get down there?" inquired I, in real anxiety. "The road is certainly very dangerous on such a night as this, and I am about to order the lamps lighted." This command he accordingly gave, and the carriage was stopped, and the lamps were lighted. We started again, and, soon turning sharply to' the right, began to descend into the vale: but before we had proceeded many yards, the coachman drew up the horses, and, turning round, said that the lamps only made the matter worse; that the lights and shadows on the downward and precipitous road were deceptive and dangerous; and finally gave it as his opinion, that we had better alight and walk down, which we accordingly did, or, rather, we climbed down-while the coachman led his horses slowly and carefully behind us. An hour's hard toil brought us to the foot of the mountain, where we resumed our seats in the carriage, and were driven swiftly toward the lurid light that marked the site of Hickory Hall. The carriage passed through an arched and broken gateway, the light fitfully falling upon the fragments of the old and- glistening red sandstone that had once formed the pillars of   72     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. the gate. We stopped immediately before the broad old- fashioned hall door, to which a flight of broad oak stairs and a portico led. An old white-headed negro, with a candle in his hand, came out and met us at the door, and saluting Wallraven as "Master Wolfgang," showed us into- One of those wainscoted halls so common to the old man- sion houses throughout theg old neighborhoods of Virginia. The dark and polished oak floor was uncarpeted, and the vast room was lighted up, as with a conflagration, by an im- mense fire of large and blazing hickory logs that roared and crackled in the huge chimney. Grim portraits frowned from the dark, oak-paneled walls, and the battle of Yorktown raged furiously above the chimney piece. Four or five richly carved high-backed chairs drew themselves haughtily up, repelling all advances. Nothing looked hearty and cheerful but the great and glowing fire that warmed and lighted the room so delightfully, and blazed and crackled so gayly, as to make amends for all. "Will you go to your room now, or wait till after supper, Fairfield?  John, how soon will supper be ready " asked Wolfgang of! me, and of the negro, in a breath. "In half an hour, sir," replied the old man who had con- ducted us in. "In half an hour; well, Fairfield, what say you 1 Will you go to your own room 1 or  John 1"  "Sir!" "What chamber have you got :eady for Mr. Fairfield!" "Mrs. Wallraven's room, sir." "The deuce!" "Yes, sir. You wrote us that the young gentleman was delicate, and that his room must be comfortable. Now, sir, Mrs. Wallraven's room is the only one as doesn't leak when it rains, and it is coming on to rain, sir." 1' Very well. Is there a fire kindled there ." "Yes, sir."   HCKORY HtALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.    73 "Are Mr. Fairfield's trunks carried up?"  "Yes, sir."/ "Very well. Fairfield, will you go now to your room to change your dress, or will you remain here until after supper?" "I will remain here, Walillven; but I am sadly afraid, my dear fellow, that I have turned some one, some lady, out of her room--that would be dreadful!" "Some lady H Iumpl! romancing again. What lady do you fancy you have turned out of her room?" "Mrs. Wallraven." "Ah, Mrs. Wallraven, certainly. It was Mrs. Wallra- ven's cchamber; but she was the last occupant, and she has not used it for some time! Be easy, my dear fellow, the room is yours--only I hope it really don't leak." "6 John!" "Sir." "W here is my father  "4 In his library, sir.9" "Let him know thllat we have arrived. He expected us to-night." "Yes, sir." "Go, then."9 The old servant left the room, and soon after the door opened, and- A  tall and venerable old gentleman, clothed in deep mourning, and with a head of hair as white as the driven snow, appeared. Wolfgang sprang, bounded to meet him. The old man opened his arms, and silently and sadly folded his son to his bosom. Then he came to me, and with a sin- gular blending of sweetness, sadness, and dignity, welcomed me to his house. He had scarcely done so, when the door once more opened, and- I raised my eyes to see one of the most majestic and beautiful women I ever beheld advancing within it. She,   74     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. like the old gentleman, was dressed in deep mourning, and her fine black hair, glittering in a thousand jetty ripples, was turned in large Madonna loops down her cheeks, carried back, and woven in a large knot behind. She was too tall and too dark for my ideal of feminine beauty, but then her form was so finely rounded, her face so darkly, graciously, richly beautiful--a Cleopatra she was, such as we picture the dark Egyptian Queen for whom a world was lost! "My daughter, Miss Wallraven," said the old gentleman, as the lady came in; and then, "C  stantiaty child, this is Mr. Fairfield, wih whom Wolfgang his letters, has already made us ,o well acquainted. Welcome him to Hick- ory- Hall." Miss Wallraven offered me the most beautiful dark hand I ever saw, and looked at me with a pair of large, dark, humid eyed, whose languid lustre haunted me many a day and night thereafter, and in a voice whose tones were at once very low, and very full, round, and melodious, cordially bade me welcome. In a few moments after this supper, was announced, and we went to the table. Such a supper! It was one, such as only Virginia heusekeepers know how to set out. Yes, the supper was perfect-not so the company. Wolf- gang was sombre; the old gentleman's manner grave and ' courteous; Miss Wallraven's dignified and gracious; all very admirable, but not at all enlivening. I felt an enthusiastic admiration of Miss Wallraven; but it was precisely the sort of admiration one would feel at suddenly beholding some marvelous masterpiece of nature or of art-some richly, gorgeously beautiful creation, whose very existence seemed a wonder. "Queen of Egypt," "Cle- opatra," "Night," "Starlight," all things - darkly splendid, grandly beautiful, seemed parallels for her. Gazing on her, I caught myself repeating these lines of Byron, and think- ing how strikingly they portrayed her: r     i   HCKORY HALL; ORB THE OUTCAST.      5 "She walks in beauty, like the night, Of cloudless climes and starry skies, And all that's best of dark and bright Meet in her aspect and her eyes." After supper, we returned to the old wainscoted hall; more logs were thrown on the blazing fire, and we gathered around it. The evening passed pleasantly, with conversa- tion, music, &c. At eleven o'clock we separated for the night, and Wolfgang himself attended me to my room. It was in the second story. In keeping with all -in the house, it was an old-fashioned apartment, the two principal fea- tures being a large tent bedstead hung with dark-green damask, and a wide fire-place, in which burned and glowed that inevitable country blessing, a good wood fire." "I will retort your question. 'How do you like my sister,' Fairfield!" "Yes! that was friendly--was it not You never men- tioned your sister to me before; never prepared a poor fellow for the danger that lay before him-a regular ambus- cade!" I repented this flippant speech in a moment, when I saw how seriously Wolfgang took it.       I "I am no egotist; I never was. I do not talk of myself and my familyr; I never did," he replied. "' Pooh! You mean to accuse me of egotism, because I have talked to you so much about my sister. Wel!, It is": true I thought Regina the very chef d'oeuvre of nature until I saw Miss Wallraven! She has astonished me! She has taken away my breath with admiration! with wonder! Can beauty like that exist any where else than in the ideal world of poets and artists? Can such rich beauty really live and move, and hatve its being in the actual world be sensible to sight and touch?" Wallraven looked really offended. "Come!" said he, "Constantia never set up for good looks that ever I heard; 'most certainly she has no pretensions to beauty; and, as to rivaling,Miss Fairfield in that respect-   76     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. pshaw! Fairfield. Constantia is no subject for jest, let me "tell you! When I asked you how you liked my sister, I meant how did you like her as a pretty good girl, alto- get-her!" "And I tell you that she takes my breath away with her unparalleled, her wonderfil beauty!"   "I marvel if you are crazy, or sarcastic!" "I am in earnest-deeply in earnest " "When you say Constantia is good-looking!" "When I say she is magnificently beautiful!" "Heaven mend your taste! Why, she is too tall, too large, too dark!" 4"So was that wondrous Queen of Egypt, for whom thle demi-god Alarc Antony lost the world!" "Humn! Go to bed, ]Fairfield." "She is the only Cleopatra I ever saw, or dreamed of!" "( You have been reading poetry. Good night, Fairfield! Daylight, bleakfast, and a fox-hunt to-morrow, will set you right! Gct to sleep soon as you can." He left me, evidently sincere in his natural brotherly blindness to his sister's superb style of beauty. I was in fact drwadfully wearied out, and, as soon as he had left me, I threw off my clothes, blew out the candle, and jumped into bed. H  I coiP not sleep. The blazing hickory fire in the fire-place illuminated the whole room with a dazzling brilliancy that would have left sleep out of the question, even if a female face, beautiful as an houri, hiad not gazed mournfully at me from the wall opposite the blazing fire. It was Constantia's dark facce, with less of dignity and more of love, more of sorrow, more of religion, in its expression. "The eyes were shadowy, full of thought and prayer." It was a Madonna countenance, and the longer I looked at it, the more I adored it. Yes! it was not a face to be passed over with mere admiration, however ardent that admiration might be-it was a face to be adored;   HCKORY IIALL; OR, TIE OUTCAST.      " and as I gazed upon its heavenly loveliness, something like religious deIvotion moved in my bosom, and almost impelled 1me to kneel boorec that image of' divine beauty, love, and sorrow. .I fill asleep, at last, with my imagination full of that "Iestial countenance and my soul full of prayer. Suddenly I awoke with a start! It seemed to me that 1 Ihad bcie  aroused firom slumber as by the shock, of a gal- vanlic battery. I trembled even after I was awake as with a vague terror, of which I should have felt ashamed had I not ascribed it to a hot supper and the nightmare.   I looked around thel room and upon the beautiful picture. The fire was burning down low, and the flame flashed up and down upon the opposite portrait, giving a convulsive emotion to the fcatures, as of sobbing. I looked at the sorrowfiul sob- bing failcc with a feeling of dcep pity, as though it had indeed beeon the living sufferer that it seemed. There was sulch an indescribable look of life, love, anguish, on the beautiful fea- tures, I felt a dreamy, mysterious, but intense desire to wipe away the tears from that pictured face. It was a good while before I could get to sleep. That bealutifil countelance, silently convlvulsed in the firc-light, fascinlated mei. If I de- terminldly closct my eyes, they would fly openl agtain, and fix upon the pictured sufferer. Nay, even when my eyes were closed, thll lovely face was still present to my mind, and it seemned to me to bc,lleartless to go to sloop w'i, such an imago  of beauty, love, and sorrow, before me. I was too imaginative. Well! the time, place, and circumstances, made me so. At last 1 fI ll asleep indeed; but through my dreams still slowly moved the image on the wall-beautiffill good, lov- ing, su ffering, as I felt her to lhave been; and with her moved another being-a perfict spectre, that might liave been the consort of Death on the Pilec IIorse-ani old, de- crepid, Jivid hag, with malign countenance and gibbering laugh1, whose lookl chilled and whose touch froze my blood with lorror.  Suddenly a noise, a fall, a smothered cry,   78     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. awoke me, and, startirtg up in my bed, I saw in the red fire- ' light, between the chimney and the side of my bed, the very hag: of my dream, livid! malignant! gibbering! struggling violently against Wolfgang Wallraven, who, himself an em- bodied typhon, with a wild, angry blaze in his light-gray eyes, held her. 4 O-= Z CH APTER     SIXTH. THE MYSTERY DEEPENS. UNOBSERVED by him, I, after the first involuntary start, had fallen back upon my pillow. TheKconflict was too unequal to last above a minute. It was a deadly, silent struggle. He evidently wished to se- cure withouthurting her, or making the least noise. le quickly succeeded in mastering and bearing her out of the room. Soon he came softly back. I was lying still; he evidently inferred that I was asleep; for, after throwing a quick, pene- trating glance at me, and looking hurriedly around the chamber, he silently retired, cautiously closing the door after him. You may judge that I slept no more that night. I scarcely knew with certainty at what point to separate my sinister dream from the mysterious reality; and dbubts, and even anxious fears, agitated me. Who was that malign old tiag? How came she in the dead hours of the night into my sleeping-room I What motive brought her there X How had Wolfgang known of her visit? Or, which had come first, and which had followed the other? Or, possibly, had they come together, and for what purpose? What meant that deadly struggle? What meant that look of agonized dread   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.   ' 79 and terrible purpose upon the ghastly face of Wolfgang  The look of unutterable hatred and determined malignity upon the fiendish features of the beldameI I anl no coward, but I say that I turned ice cold with horror-not so much at what might) have happened to either of the mortal foes, as at the passion silently raging in the bosoms of both.             - All was dark and still in my ro-m  now. The lurid dull red glow of the smouldering coals on the hearth revealed Inothing. Even the image on the wall was invisible in the  deepening shadows of that darkest hour that precedes the dawn of day. I lay for an hour in the misery of an ener- getic, acutely anxious mind, fretting itself against the forced inactivity of the body. At length the unknown sounds that usher in the earliest dawn of morning began to be heard. I arose, drew on my dressing-gown, and taking some dry oak logs from a wood pile near the fire-place, threw them upon the smouldering coals, which soon kindled them into a cheerfil and genial blaze. As, however, the room was yet too dusky, I went to the windows to open the shutters. I had some difficulty in hoisting the windows and in pushing open the shutters, for they were blockaded with snow and ice. When I did so ,however, the frozen snow fell rattling down to the ground, and the sudden dazzling sunbeams flashing in, nearly blinded me with light. When I could look out, however, I saw that the dark and heavy clouds of the preceding night had not fallen in a del- uge of rain as had been predicted, but during the still and silent hours of the night had noiselessly descended in one of those tremendous falls of snow that furnish paragraphs for the marvelous department of the newspapers of the day, and make ,lata in the history of a lifetime. All around stretched fields of frozen snow, the great depth of which might be partly guessed at by the tops of high gate-posts sticking a few inches above the surface, and marking the site   80     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. of a buried line of fence-fields of crusted and sparkling snow, which flashed off in undulating radiance to the circle of mountains that shut in this white, cup-shaped dell, and whose icy peaks scintillated against the cold, blue horizon. This vast snow-cup, snow pit, snow-dell--flashing, spark- ling, scintillating, dazzling, ice-clad earth, glahced brighter in the reflected rays of the morning sun than the winter sky above. It was certain that we were immured in this snow-glen, within the confines of these closely circling and ice-cum- bered mountains, for an indefinite number of days. There would be no fox-hunting that day, or that week. That was evident; that I did not regret. Not life without, but life within, the homestead, absorbed my thoughts, and I turned from the flashing fields of snow and glancing peaks of ice, to look upon the beautiful portrait on the wall, that had so powerfully attracted me during the night. I wished to ex- amine it, to test its powers of fascination by sober daylight. I turned and looked for it. It was gone! I gazed, doubting my own eyes! It was certainly gone! No sign of a picture ever having been there-no pin, screw, or nail, or even hole in the wall, was to be seen! 1 looked all around in an almost ludicrous state of, bewilder- ment. I half suspected the whole train of sinister events of the past night to be merely the phantasmagoria of a midnight dream, or the creation of a morbidly excited- imagination, and I began to make my simple morning toilet. I had not got half through, when a rap at the chamber door arrested my attention, and to my "Come in!" entered old John-who seemed to be factotum to the household- with hot water, towels, and offers of service. J I gratefully accepted the hot water and the towels, and as gratefully declined his assistance at my dressing-table. t*i   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     81 He then informed me that breakfast would be on the table in half an hour, and left the room. A quarter of an hour afterward, having given the last and most graceful wave to my temple locks, in honor of my superb Queen of Egypt, I descended to the hall. As I entered the old wainscoted apartment-heated, as upon the previous evening, by an immense fire of hickory wood-I saw Mr. Wallraven, Wolfgang, and old John, standing on the broad hearth in deep and earnest conversa- tion. "Secured"--" keep her own room"-were the broken words that fell upon my ear as I came in, when the trio suddenly separated at my approach, and Wolfgang came forward to meet me.  He was dreadfully pale and haggard. He appeared really very ill. After glancing at me furtively and keenly, he spoke to me very affectionately, saying something about regretting that the inclemency of the weather should oblige us to postpone our hunt. I told him there was no fear but what we should be able to amuse ourselves for the few days during which the snow would confine us to the vale. "As how, my dear Fairfield-trapping snowhirds and cracking hickory nuts; for that appears to be the only re- source." "Books, music, conversation, tales of olden times. Miss Wallraven   " "Ah!" began Wolfgang; but before he could proceed with his threatened sarcasm, OldJohn appeared at the door, and announced breakfast. I followed Wolfgang into the next room; and there we found a good fire, and a fine Virginia breakfast. Mr. Wallraven was there, and, }Reside the servants, no one else. He invited us to be seated at the table, and we took our places. I was helped to coffee, buckwheat cakes, broiled partridge; but my attention was divided between the savory viands before me, and the door at my right handt through '5   82     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.  e which I hoped and expected every instant to see my ' won- drous Queen of Egypt" enter. I wished so much to see her by daylight. At length I could bear the suspense no longer; and, turning to Mr. Wallraven, I asked, ("Are we not to have the happiness of Miss Wallraven's presence at breakfast, this morning?" I was not answered immediately. I saw that' both the old gentleman and Wolfgang changed color, and exchanged glances, as Wolfgang replied in a low tone of voice, "My sister left home this morning, for an absence of several weeks." I bowed, as in politeness bound; but how Miss Wallraven could have left home, through the avalanches and icebergs that blockaded us that morning, was a mystery to me. Without seeming to make any effort, both Mr. Wallraven and Wolfgang certainly exerted themselves to entertain me. Thanks to their successful endeavors, the next week did not pass heavily, although we were confined& almost entirely to the house and near grounds. A well-stored library; various musical instruments; backgammon, chess, cards, bil- liards; conversations with the old gentleman, who possessed k Riyich and highly-cultivated mind, a profound tone of thought, exalted sentiments, and a brilliant style of con. versing; spars with the willful but fascinating Wolfgang- filled up the hours of the short days. My growing friendship for the old gentleman deepened almost into love; my esteem for him at least amounted to veneration! So patriarchal, so reverend, seemed his tall figure, his snow-white hair, and his clerical black suit--so full of Christian love and benediction seemed his serious smile and his sweet, grave tones. My reverence for the venerable father greatly augmented my respect, if it could not increase my affection, for the son; but--the mystery! the mystery! What was it  My mind sometimes natu- rally connected the -midnight apparition of Wolfgang and the malign hag in my bedtchamber with the terrible secret   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAT.     83 of the family; and at other times I entertained a rational doubt as to whether the dread apparition were a dream or a reality. Since that first night, my sleep had been undis- turbed. The end of that week brought Christmas Eve, and also a considerable moderation of the cold and thaw of the snow, ' though the condition of the ground still precluded the pos- sibility of a pleasant hunt. Christmas day, we had a small party of gentlemen to dinner, and the long-talked of hunt was appointed for the next week. After dinner, and when these men were about to take their leave, we were all invited to return the visits ulpon any day that we should fix, and I, as a stranger, was pressed to do so. I observed that Mr. Wallraven, with a strange blending of humility and 'pride, courteously declined these invitations. These gentlemen, I heard long afterward, were a company formed for some enterprise, and that they were trying to negotiate the loan of a very large sum of money from Mr. Wallraven-an arrangement they finally succeeded in completing, much to their satisfaction, how- ever little it might have been to Mr. Wallraven's interests. Sunday after Christmas, Mr. Wallraven and myself at- tended Divine service at the Episcopal church of St. Ste- phens. Wolfgang remained at home. After the sermon, Mr. Wallraven lingered until all the congregatio xihad left the church, and then came out of his pew to meet the young minister, who was coming down the aisle to speak to him. They met as intimate friends who had a great respect for each other. Mr. Wallraven intro- duced him as the Rev. Mr. Davenport, and 'then they en- tered into a conversation for a few minutes. At parting, Mr. Wallraven pressed the minister to come over and dine with him the next day-an invitation that he accepted. The next day, Mr. Davenport and his wife-who by-the- way was not included in the invitation extended to her hus-   84     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. band, came over to Hickory Hall. Mr. Wallraven received the clergyman with much grave cordiality, and his amiable wife with scarcely concealed surprise and emotion. When we were once seated around the great fire in the old wain- scoted hall, Mr. Davenport inquired with much interest for , Constance.", "My daughter is from home for a few weeks," replied the old gentleman. Mr. Davenport expressed some regret:at not being able to see her, and the conversation dropped, or rather changed. This day passed very pleasantly. The minister and Mr. Wallraven had a game of chess. Mrs. Davenport-who -was an amiable, intelligent, and interesting little lady--Wolfgang, and myself, played and sang trios, or two of us duets. We dined early; and early :in the afternoon our visitors departed, having very reluc- tantly drawn from Mr. Wallraven a promise to dine with them on New Year's Eve. The next day, being Tuesday, was the day of our great hunt. Mr. Davenport of course did not join in it,from that irrational and very deleterious custom which debars minis- ters of the gospel from amusement considered lawful and beneficial to the lay members of their congregation-thus separating religion from innocent, cheerful, and healthful pleasure, greatly to the disparagement of the tfoker.^ The party of gentlemen assembled early inm [;:rnmng, and the neighing and prancing of the hunters itthe cries of the houndd  e a gay and enlivening scene. We set out very early ail, had a highly exciting hunt) and a rather fatiguing day. It was late'in the afternoon before the brush was taken. Wolfgang Wallraven took it. : We returned to a sumptuous dinner at Hickory Hall., After the dessert, the guests sat long over the wine, and it was late in the night before they separated and left the house.   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.      85 Wo were later than usual at assembling to breakfast the next morning. After breakfast, we were reminded by a note from Mr. Davenport of our promise to dine at St. Stephens' parsonage upon some day of the current week, and invited for the next day. Mr, Wallraven, after some considerable hesitation and evident reluctance, wrote to accept the invitation. Accordingly the next morning we set out for the parson- age, distant some nine miles, and where we arrived about eleven o'clock in the forenoon. We found the excellent clergyman and his wife friendly and hospitable as ever, but not so lively-struggling in fact to keep up a cheerfulness, which was evidently maintained by great effort. The conversation, after some variety, turned upon church affairs, in the course of which Mr. Davenport inadvertently let escape him a hint that his congregation, especially his vestry, were much dissatisfied with him, and that his stay among them was now unpleasant as well as doubtful. Then old Mr. Wallraven arose, and laying his hand solemnly and affectionately upon the shoulder of the young clergyman, said, in a low voice, "I have long feared this, my excellent young friend! I know too well their ground of objection! Come with me. I would talk with thee apart!" and, excusing himself, Mr. Davenport arose, and they walked slowly away in earnest conversation together. I caught, these words--"My' dear, disinterested young friend, you must not injure yourself by your indiscreet at- tachment to me. Alreadty one dear, Christian friend has fallen a victim to his love for me and mine. This must not go on. Let me alone,' Whatsoever a man soweth, that let him reap.' Thirty years of sufferance, that has whitened my hair like snow at fifty, has nevertheless accustomed me to my Sorrow, and strengthened me to bear it?   You -n-ust  " ,The remainder of the speech died away, but at the distant ' ' "' 'it, * ** ^ :' '. i,   86     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. bay window I still saw them in debate-the patriarchal old man, earnest, solemn, impressive; the tones and gestures of the young clergyman, energetic, denunciatory. I think that Mr. Wallraven convinced, at least, I know he silenced, the minister; for,on returning to the fire, the old gentleman appeared satisfied, while Mr. Davenport seemed melancholy, and even, perhaps, remorseful. When we left in the evening, no invitations were given on either side, and the parting itself was grave and sad: Storm clouds were again mustering in the northwest, and we had a very brisk ride, through the cold and darkening twilight, in order to escape, if possible, the storm of wind, snow, and sleet, that, nevertheless, when we were within half a mile of Hickory Hall, broke out upon us in boister- ous fury. We reached the homestead at last, where the severity of the weather confined us for a week. After it moderated, we had an occasional guest at dinner, but went out visiting no more during our short stay. Our time was passed, however, more agreeably than be- fore. We were blessed with one of those clear, mild, and dry spells of weather which sometimes visit us even in the dead of winter. We passed the remainder of our time-in the mornings,.in sporting expeditions upon the mountains anrid in the forests, from which we would return laden with game; in exploring expeditions among the wild and pic- turesque or awful and majestic scenery of the Blue Ridge, or in sails upon the Shenandoah; and in the evenings in games of various kinds, in music, books, or conversation. We had another great hunt upon the last day of our stay, and the next morning we left,Hickory Hall for the North. I need not say that during my stay, throughout all the external circumstances of my visit, my thoughts and feel- ings were intensely interested in the sinister mystery that enveloped the unfortunate Wallravens, which nothing tended to elucidate, while every thing helped to deepen. ' It is not to be supposed that all I hadjead and heard at : I,   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. ,    87 Hickory Hall had not greatly increased my anxiety upon my sister's account. Another cause for uneasiness I had also. During my residence at Hickory Hall-and in fact from the time of my having written to Regina of my pro- posed visit to Virginia-I had not once heard from her. NotWithstanding I had written two or three letters, I had received no answer. I fancied this proceeded from a feeling of resentment on her part, upon account of my visit; but I also feared that she might be ill or unhappy. Upon reaching the University, however, I found one letter from her, bearing a recent date, awaiting me. She was well, had got all my letters, hoped I had enjoyed my visit to Vir- ginia, coldly regretted that she had not had the pleasure of my society and that of my friend, Mr. 'Wallraven, at Christ- mas, but hoped to be compensated at the end of the ensuing term. That was the first time she had ever mentioned Wolfgang in any of her letters to me. I felt that she did so now only for the purpose of drawing me out. I felt it my duty to enlighten her as much as I was able, which you may judge was not much. I sat down and wrote her a long, long letter, filling six foolscap pages, and giving her a de- tailed account of all that had happened since my leave-taking. of her-I mean especially all events in which Wolfgang was concerned. I folded and sealed this letter, and after leaving it in my desk all night, took it out, and--consigned it to the flames! By a change of opinion and feeling, irrational and erratic as any of Wolfgang's own, it appeared to me the work of a spy, to go into his domestic circle and expose all that I saw there to the worst construction, and that, too, to the woman whom he loved and esteemed above all others in the world. At least I determined to think again before I did this, and resolved never to do it unless circumstances strictly demanded it-unless, in fact, he should renew his suit to my sister, in the way of which I purposed to throw every sort of obstruction. I formed a resolution never again to go to Hickory Hall, and never again to invite Wallraven   88    -HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. to Willow Hill. Do not suppose that I could determine capon this course without deep grief, for I dearly loved Wolfgang; and this very resolution, growing out of a sense of duty as it did, now served to deepen, as well as sadden, my affection for the strange fellow. The current term was to be our last at the University. During the whole of this term, Wallraven applied himself to study with unparalleled industry. It was predicted that he would take a very high degree; and when the end of the term came, this prediction was fulfilled in his highest success. He received marks of esteem from the most dis- tinguished of the professors, and the warm congratulations of his companions. This eminent success had astonished even those who predicted great things for him, and, I think, surprised Wallraven himself, and--with the honor of the distinguished, and the sympathy of the warm-hearted among his associates-combined 'to warm his stiff, cold, reserved' nature. Never had I seen him so nearly happy. He invited me to go with him to Hickory Hall, where he said he should spend some months previous to going abroad. I declined. Then he gave me every opportunity of returning the civility, which I omitted to do. I do not know how long my reso- lution would have held out; for his eminent success, the honor paid him, and, more than all, his own happy elated mood, were conspiring to bring about a hopeful change in my sentiments-had not a circumstance occurred to put all choice out of the question-an event that dcidd for time, perhaps for all eternity, the fate of my ill-starred sister, and overwhelmed my life with sorrow. I had not heard from Regina for a month, and was beginning to feel very uneasy. I grew anxious for the day when I should set out on my journey homeward, to meet her again. Upon leaving the- University at the end of the term, Wallraven and myself had taken up our abode temporarily at a hotel, where we were mutually engaged in preparations   HCKORY HALLT.; OR, THE OUTCAST.     89 for our respective journeys, and where I was turning over in my mind the question of inviting or not inviting Wolf- gang to Willow Hill. It was the third 'day of our sojourn there, that Wallraven and myself were sitting together in a private parlor that we occupied jointly, when, without any premonition whatever, the door was gently thrown open by a waiter; who announced Miss Fairfield; and, to my extreme astonishment, my sister Regina, weary and travel-stained, but fair and proud as ever, advanced into the room! CHAPTER SEVENTH. THE LOST PATRIMONY. Thou may'st not enter thy fair mansion house, Thou may'st not pull a sapling from thy hills, Thou may'st not set thy foot within the fields.-Howitt. "REGINA! my dearest sister! I am  delighted and-as- tounded to see you? Whence come you? How come you? But here! before you reply, take this easy chair, and--give me your bonnet! Place your feet upon this footstool! You look weary! You rode all night! Who escorted you Nay, do not answer! You look so exhausted! Have a glass of water, first, or-a cup of coffee 1 Wolfgang, my dear fellow!-but no! I will run!" It was with something like this tirade of ejaculations of astonishment, joy, love, and solitude, that I received my sister, placed her in the lounging chair, set a cushion under her feet, and ran off to order refreshments. 'I was absent some fifteen minutes; and when I returned, followed by a waiter bringing in coffee, &c., and a chamber- maid to take Miss Fairfield's things and receive her orders,   90'    HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. I found Wolfgang standing by Regina's side, stooping over her with a countenance beaming with happiness, his left arm caressingly encircling her shoulders, his right hand clasping -hers, and she no longer pale and weary, but blushing with pride and pleasure, as her radiant eyes were vailed beneath his ardent gaze. He drew off as we entered, and each re- sumed composure. Regina arose with her accustomed stately self-possession, and, attended by the chambermaid, retired from the room to refresh herself by a change of dress, saying to me, en passant, that I might countermand the waiter of refreshments, and, if we had not already breakfasted, she would join us at that meal. I said that we had not, and she left us. Breakfast for three was served in our parlor, and in half an hour Regina entered, every vestige of fatigue and discom- posure fled from her countenance and bearing, and she, at- tired in a plain, but rich, mourning dress of India muslin, looking beautiful and gracious as ever. During breakfast, I made no inquiries concerning the motive of her extraordinary journey at this particular time, when she knew I was soon to return home. I rightly con- jectured that she had a somewhat lengthy explanation to make; besides which, the waiter was in attendance, and we could have no confidential conversation in the presence of a servant. When our meal was over, however, and when the waiter had removed the breakfast service, set the room in order, and retired, Regina seated herself in the easy chair, placed her feet upon the footstool, summoned Wallraven and my- self to her side, and, in a calm voice, and with a composed manner, informed us that our agent, using the great power :entrusted to him, had converted all our property into cash, and fled with it to the West Indies!--that, too, just when. in a few weeks he knew he would be called upon to deliver up his trust! By this piece of unparalleled rascality, we were left-no, not "beggars," nor "penniless," quite. We   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     91 might have between us, in pocket money, jewelry, and per- sonal appointments, some five or six thousand dollars-that was all. At first, I was too completely stunned by the news--not of our great loss, but of our attorney's great villany--to feel the real sharpness of our misfortune. I turned in despair and looked at Wallraven. How would he receive the news of his friend's calamity f When I first turned my eyes full upon him, taking him, as it were, by sur- prise, he looked positively agog with joy! I had never seen any exhibition of triumph like that in him before! What did he mean? Before I had time to ask, his obstreperous- ness was reined in, and his features forced into an expression of gravity. Regina further informed me that she had availed herself of the opportunity afforded by the journey of the Right Reverend Bishop L   , who was traveling north to the Convention, to join her brother; that she had written to warn me of her approach--a letter which, by the way, I never received.            \ Miss Fairfield then excused herself, an left us to seek needful repose. As soon as she had gone, Wolfgang, who had, with diffi- culty, restrained his excitement all this time, impetuously threw himself down beside me, and, clasping me as if I had been his sweetheart, exclaimed, vehemently- "My brother! my heart! command my utmost powers and resources-command me! Half my father's wealth is'mine when I demand it-it is yours when you want it!" "Thank you, thank you, thank you. I am not over- whelmed iby this misfortune, dear Wolfgang, though I am in danger of being so by your whole-hearted goodness." "And will you let me serve you?" "Not to the fanatical extent, or in the manner that you propose, my dear Wallraven! You are excited by this news even more than I am., My dear, generous fellow, be quiet. 4    92     .HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. As you perceive, neither my sister nor myself is driven mad by this misfortune. I shall execute now, a plan that I have often thought of, even in my days of independence, and in doing so, enter a line of life for which I have at times had a very strong inclination. "And what is that?" "The Christian ministry! I shall immediately curtail every unnecessary expense, reduce my living to the severest economy, convert all my personal effects that can possibly be dispensed with into cash, and commence a course of theolo- gical reading." "Fairfield, you constraint my admiration! Have you, then, no painful regrets for the past-no gnawing anxiety for the future" ' "None for myself." "You astonish me!" "4But "Well?"  "For another  " "Well . ' For another'-for whom, Fairfieldl 1 Have you been falling in love? though that could scarcely happen without my knowledge, as we have been so inseparable-but yet, is it so 1" "No, I have not fallen in love. Of course you know that; and you should know also that I speak of my sister!" said I, seriously. "Your sister!" he exclaimed, in what I thought a very natural surprise. "Your sister!" "Certainly-my sister." "And why, pray t" "Is it so strange that I should feel anxiety for the future of Regina after this serious reverse?" "No, certainly not-assuredly not! Excuse me! Hmy thoughts fly occasionally, and I spake, perhaps, rather in reference to my own phase of mind, and from my own point of view, than-from yours. Go on, dear Fairfield! Believe   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.      93 me, though my thoughts fly, they only circle round and round you and your. interests, my brother. Go on, I pray you! Tell me all your causes of anxiety." "Regina then! I could very wrell support my sister in a small way; or, at a moderate outlay, I could establish her at the head of a new female academy-but   " "Well, my dear friend 9" "Her haughtiness of heart unfits her alike for dependence upon me, or servitude of others. This lofty pride troubles me the more, that I have no sort of sympathy with it-can- not understand it fully; and, as far as I do, utterly condemn it. Human pride is folly, or insanity. The Saviour of the world was not proud   " J "Come, Ferdinand, my reverend friend! don't anticipate the privilege of the vestments! For myself, I adore the 6 lofty pride' of Miss Fairfield. It is indissolubly entwined with the most exalted virtues, which could not exist without it!" "You speak like a lover!" "I speak the truth. Her ' lofty pride' sustains the high- est sentiments of truth, courage, generosity, fortitude!"' "I have never seen her ' fortitude' tested yet. It is that which I dread!" "You ' have never seen her fortitude tested!' not even in this sudden and severe reverse, of fortune ." "6 No, only her courage is tested here. She met, but has not yet borne, the evils of this misfortune! Courage only meets calamity bravely; it takes fortitude to endure it strongly and patiently. Courage dares misfortune-fortitude sustains it; courage  " "Courage 'is acute fortitude, and fortitude is chronic cour- age! you mean, medically speaking!" "Fudge!" "Certainly! I beg your pardon, Fairfield, for cutting short, both your sermon on pride, and your ethical and me- taphysical essay on courage and fortitude, because the former   94     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. was ill-timed, the latter essentially unphilosophical, and both would have run to, I know not what length! Now, 'then,. let us return to the more attractive subject of Miss Fairfield. You were saying-----" "' I was saying that I have no sympathy. with my sister's pride! I do not understand it, and it troubles me for her future." "And I repeat most emphatically, that I adore that pride!" "You are an enthusiast!" "'I worship that pride-that lofty spirit, which is not assumption, nor arrogance, but a calm, majestic, unconscious assertion of her own inestimable worth! of her own essen- tial, unalienable royalty! the triune royalty of transcendent beauty, goodness, and genius!" "Oh! you are mad!" "'Honor to whom honor is due!" "Yes! but that is not to the haughty! He who spake ., those words, said also,' The humble shall be exalted, and the proud shall be brought low'--' He that exalteth himself shall be abased ;' and 'The meek shall inherit the earth.'- 'Pride goeth before a fall, and a haughty temper before de- struction.' You doubtless will give me more contempt for what you will consider weakness, than credit for the fear of God; but I confess that these things trouble me for my ,dearest sister! It seems to me that her severe discipline has already begun! I do hope  " "Pshaw! hush! Nonsense! Don't preach! You're not in the holy orders yet!" exclaimed Wolfgang, interrupting me, in a husky voice and with an agitated manner. I looked at him in surprise. He shuddered twice or thrice in his old way, got up and walked to the window, and said, "It seems to me you are croaking this evening, Fairfield! to say -nothing of a very unbrotherly severity to a trait of character in your only sister, which I for one cannot con-   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     95 eider a fault, but must look upon with high respects even when   "          . He stopped abruptly.     . 6"When carried to excess ." "Yes! something of that sort!" he said, with an involun- tary writhe of his beautiful lips. A twinge of remorse wrung me for an instant. . I felt that I had been severe with the foible of my dear Regina, and that it was not only ungenerous, but unjust, -to speak of her fault in her absence; so I hastened to say. "You know that I have no fraternal insensibility to my sister's noble character, Wolfgang!" c; Ah! you have! You do not see, do not acknowledge that it is pride keeps that high, pure character so spotless from even conventional little meannesses!" "Yes, I do! but I see also that that ' pride' makes Regina sternly uncompromising, terribly intolerant of the little social and conventional meannesses and falsehoods of others!" The effect of my words upon him was as fearful as un- expected! He blanched suddenly, dropped into a chair, and glared luridly from under the shade of his long black lashes at me, as if I had willfully and wantonly outraged him. I was about done with surprise at any eccentric motion of Wallraven; and fate, or something, impelled me to go on. "What is neither always reasonable nor Christian, her high- toned sense of honor, is morbid, even to mania. Deception, no matter how well, how logically defended, finds, no toler- ance with her. It would disgust her in a mere acquaint- ance; it would alienate her forever from a friend; and in one she loved pre-eminently, it would kill or madden her. I know and feel it. It is this that has terrified me for my sister! It is this that makes /me shudder when I recall the fearful words, the thunder words-'Pride goeth before a, fall, and a haughty temper before destruction!"' I suddenly   96     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. felt a strong grasp upon my shoulder, and the husky, inau- dible words. "For God's sake, hush!" and Wallraven rushed out of the room. !"I have something to say. to you, dear Ferdinand," said my sister Regina, laying her fair hand affectionately on my shoulder, and sinking softly into a chair by my side. She looked so fair; so proud, so joyous, yet-so charm- ingly embarrassed. "Why, how beautiful you are, Regina! Queen Blanch! Fair one with golden locks!" exclaimed IL in involuntary admiration and fondness. And she was! Dazzlingly beau- tiful! She had arisen, restored by her long morning sleep, refreshed by her cold bath, and dressed for dinner. She wore a very light blue silk, with fine lace falls to the short sleeves, and low corsage. Her splendid pale gold hair was rolled back from her snowy forehead and temples in shining bandeaus, and woven in a large knot behind. She had floated in and sunk down by me softly, lightly, gracefully as a sun-gilded azure cloud, a vision of celestial beauty! "I have something to say to you, dear Ferdinand," she repeated, without deigning to notice my admiration. "I listen, dear Regina,"' said I, seriously. '( Brother, I am engaged to be married to Wolfgang Wall- raven.  I started to my feet, throwing off her hand by my vio- lence, and exclaiming vehemently,        No!" "Are you surprised '" she serenely inquired. "No, Regina! No!"I exclaimed, emphatically, without replying to her last observation. "Yes, 'then, if I must repeat my declaration." "No, it is not! it must not! it shall not be so!" "Why 1" she asked, calmly, with scarcely a perceptible inflection of surprise and contempt 'in her tone. "Y*u must not-shall not--cannot marry Wallraven!t'   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     97 "Will you endeavor to make yourself intelligible, Ferdi- nand?" she demanded, coldly. "Wallraven cannot in honor marry you, and he knows it!"9 Her snowy brow, grew purple; she drew her proud crest haughtily up, and was preparing silently to rise and leave the room; when I laid my hand upon her with an imploring gesture, and, rising, went and turned the key) in the door, sat down by her side, and beseeching her by our fraternal love to listen to me with some little toleration, I began, and gave her a minute, detailed account of my whole confidential con- nection with Wallraven; commencing from  our earliest school days; passing through our life at the preparatory school; through our college friendship; including our joint visit to Willow Hill, with the extraordinary scene in his chamber; and, lastly, my recent visit to Hickory Hall, with the frightful occurrence in my chamber in the dead of 'the first night of my arrival. I ended with imploring my sister, as she valued her happiness, not to risk it by a marriage with him. For'any other good purpose than that of doing my own duty and exonerating my own conscience, I might just as well have been silent. Regina heard me through; though, as my story pro- gressed, I saw her lip curl, and curl, with a slowly gather- ing contempt; and when I finished, she arose with flashing eyes,eand answered me with a blasting, consuming scorn, anger, and defiance-accusing me of degrading suspicions- degrading to myself and to no one else--of treachery to my friend--of-I know not what beside; and expressing, with the air of an empress, her highest trust in Wolfgang Wallraven's unimpeachable purity and honor. In short, she replied to me as any other haughty, high-spirited woman would reply to aspersions so cast upon the man she deigned to accept. I attempted a rejoinder; but resuming her sovereign self- 6   98     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. possession, with a gesture full of high command, she silently indicated her will to leave the room; and I went to the door, unlocked, and held it open while she swept majesti- cally through. CHAPTER EIGHTH. THE BRIDE'S DOWRY, I FELT myself relieved of a most disagreeable duty, which had been pressing upon me for some time, though certainly placed in a very unpleasant position. Loving Wolfgang and Regina almost 'with equal affection, and loving none others in the world but them, I wished their happiness above all things. Could their union have seemed likely to secure their felicity, I should have desired it more than any other event. 'But, from all I had seen and heard, I feared that it would end in misery to both; therefore I had sought to serve them best by attempting to break it off, and I had attained no better end than to deeply offend both my friend and sister. One lesson I learned, that it is useless and absurd to interfere between lovers who really love each other. I de- termined however, to tell Wolfgang all I had said to Regina: I could not conceal this from him, for I could not have any thing approximating toward a treachery upon my con- science. The dinner bell rang in the midst of my painful cogita- tions, and mechanically, as a matter of habit, I sauntered down into the dining-room, and took my seat at the table. Soon the door opened, and Wallraven entered with Re- gina on his arm, and they took their places, which were first and second above mine, Regina sitting between me and Wolfgang.    HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     99 By nothing on Regina's fair, frosty brow, or in her usually calm, cold manner, could I perceive whether she were still angry with me.  Wolfgang looked black as the muzzle of a loaded can- non; but whether with anger, gloom, or both, I could not tell. After dinner, a pair of horses were brought around, and Wallraven invited Regina to ride, to which she assented, and I was left to my own unpleasant company and thoughts for the rest of the afternoon. Very late in the afternoon they returned. Regina went to her. chamber to change her riding-habit, and Wallraven came into our parlor, where I was still sitting. He rang the bell, and, throwng his whip, cap, gloves, &c., to the waiter, who entered, directed him to bring wine. I ap- proached him. "Wallraven!" "Well!"  "I have something offensive to say to you!" 6 Out with, it, man!" "You will be angry!" "If I am, I shall knock you down first and forgive you afterward." s"That will be Christian, but dangerous. You are en- gaged to my sister." ,'How do you know that?" "s She told me." "4 Well, what then? you told me to win her if I could." "Yes; but   " i "Well!" "Circumstances have transpired since then--'9" "You made no allowance for circumstances." "I was wrong--asty-very indiscreet!" "Ah! well! 'circumstances have transpired!' To what 'circumstances' do you allude ."   100    HCGKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. "Among other things, the events of a night at Hickory Hall!" Wallraven grew very pale, but commanded himself. "' Will you relate to me those events ." he asked, in a constrained voice. "Certainly," replied I, and detailed to him the occur- rences of my first night at Hickory Hall. To my surprise, he looked infinitely relieved, though the laugh was unna- tural with which he said, "You cannot believe it possible that the turtle soup and deviled partridges gave you a horrible nightmare, can you " "No, truly, I cannot. What I saw was real." "Fairfield, when next you visit Hickory Hall, look into the library, and on the third shelf in the second arch on the right hand of the chimney-piece, you will find Sir Walter Scott's complete works. Select from among them his vol- ume on iDemonologyand read it with attention. I think it will do you good," said he, with a calm, deliberate manner. "What I was about to say to you, Wolfgang, was this: I felt it to be my duty to my sister to inform., her of all I know of your history, as well as to hint to her all I sus- pect!"And I looked, expecting him/o explode. He was quiet as a bombshell untouched. "Ah I you told her?" "Yes." "Well l" "Well, Wallraven, I implored her, as she valued her happiness, not to risk it by marrying you. I used every argument and entreaty in my power to enforce or persuade her to break with you " "And the result--" "Was utterly unsuccessful." "No more than that 1" ," Yes; much more! I was totally defeated, routed, blasted by the lightning of her angry scorn, and I wonder that a bit of me is left to tell the tale!"   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.    101 Ha! ha! ha! ha! ha! I knew it!" "I said every thing I could say to your injury, Wolf. gang, and, having done so, I come to tell you of it-not in defiance, but in frankness." "' God bless you, Fairfield! there! I believe that is the first time in all my life, at least since my angel mother went to heaven, that I have prayed! but happy love makes one grateful and devout. God bless you, Fairfield, for you were true to your sister, to my bride! my idolized Regina! You were right to tell her all you knew, which was-nothing; and all you suspect, which was-something less! But, Fair- field, my dear fellow, having made up my own mind to marry her, it is quite settled! Let your conscience rest, for you cannot help it! What is your eloquence to mine, when I love her? What is the power of all men and devils over her, compared to mine, when she loves me? It is settled. All earth and hell could not part us now! It is settled. I wrote to my father this noon. I shall take my wife to, Paris immediately after our marriage. I intend to make our home there for many, many years-perhaps forever 1 France is really the only half-civilized country in this barbarous world! Paris, only, is really enlightened! or, beginning 'to be. Yes! Paris shall be our home. Go with us, Fairfield. will you not 1" "No! to that modern Sodom I will never go! You, Wallraven, if I know you, will never like a place where the sanctity of home and hearth is unknown! You will be only, at best, a refugee in Paris-from what I suppose- nay, I hope-I may never know." "Yes, you will know, some day, when I can tell you my humiliating secret proudly! Then you shall know!" "God grant that you may be able to do so, Wolfgang, my brother!" Regina at this moment entered the room, every sign of displeasure vanished from her radiant brow. I made no further opposition. I crushed down in the   102    HlICKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. 'bottom of my heart my foreboding fears, and tried to hope. Now that it was useless to look on the dark side, I turned resolutely to the bright one, which was really very bright. Wolfgang-young, handsome, talented, accomplished and wealthy-the distinguished graduate of the University, now radiant with the glory of his recent collegiate honors, ador- inag my sister and adored by her. Yes! I would look only on this side of the picture, where all was brilliant! The next day we received a visit from Bishop L under whose care Regina had traveled North. He condoled with us upon our misfortune when he came, but congratu- lated us upon our firmness and gayety when he went away. I promised to return Mis call; and accordingly upon the second day I did so, and took that opportunity of informing him of my sister's contemplated marriage with Wolfgang Wallraven, and of unfolding to him my desire to enter a course of theological reading for the purpose of taking holy orders. I told him how long this had been on my mind, how long, even before I dreamed of a possible loss of for- tune. He highly approved my design, and placed his library at amy service, inviting me at the same time to return with him to the South, and take up my abode for the present at his house. There were many reasons why I should feel no scruple in accepting the assistance of the venerable old man. He had in his youth been ifidebted to my grandfather for his own education, and subsequent establishment in the church in which he had risen to such high honor. Now, in his age, he had wealth, a large house, an extensive library, and but a small family, consisting of his wife, one son and a daugh- ter. He seemed very anxious to assist me, and soon over- ruled my faint objections. I told him, however, that it would be impossible for nme to return with him, or go South at all, until after my sister's marriage, when I promised to do so.   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     103 When  I returned, I found that Wallraven and Regina had walked out together. They did not return until the dinner hour. I pass over two weeks, the mornings of which were spent in walking, or riding out, or reading, music or conversation at home; and the evenings, in attending lectures and con- certs abroad, or in some social pastime in our own parlor. Regina was proudly, though bashfully, joyous. Wallraven exhibited a haughty and happy self-conscious- ness, that became him greatly. Every day his step was more stately and elastic, his eye more steady and commanding. The regnant spirit was assuredly triumphant now! At the end of two weeks, early one morning, lie entered my chamber and laid before me two papers, indicating the one that I should read first. That was a letter from his father, Mr. Wallraven, giving consent to his marriage, and filled with affectionate expres- sions of regard fobr his bride and earnest prayers for the happiness of both, regretting that his infirmities must pre- vent his traveling North to be present at their marriage, and pressing Wolfgang to bring his wife to Hickory Hall immediately after the ceremony. His letter ended with a message of,affection and esteem for myself, a fervent tender of service, and an invitation to accompany my sister and her husband to Virginia. The letter was like the old gentleman himself, full of delicate beneficence, exalted love and mag- nanimity, yet through all betraying an undertone of sadness, solemnity, almost gloom. I was deeply affected on read- ing it. Wolfgang slipped it from my hand, and placed the other paper before me. This was the attested copy of a deed settling one hundred thousand dollars on Regina Fairfield. I read this twice, or thrice, before I looked up to see Wallraven leaning over my chair with an expression of generous satisfaction. ,   104     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. "Why, what is the meaning of this, Wallraven?" inquired I, with the feeling and the tone of embarrassment. "It means to express my own and my father's deep sense of the high honor Miss Fairficld confers upon us in bestow- ing her hand on me!" he replied, in a sad, earnest, and somewhat bitter tone. "But this is wrong, utterly wrong, Wallraven. Regina's whole fortune now does not amount to more than three thou- sand dollars-a sum scarcely sufficient to provide the trous- seam of a Wallraven bride. If you will have her, in the name of heaven take her; but do not think of giving so much where nothing is given in return."   e "She gives me her priceless self," he answered, almost mournfully; then, after a short pause, added, "I am glad that it is so. I am glad that she is dowerless. I would con- fer every thing upon my bride; receive nothing from her but her love, and still be her debtor, and still tremble for oh, God!" he ejaculated, abruptly pausing. "Regina herself, for the reason that she brings you no property, will object to receiving this munificent settle- ment." "She must not! It is the time-honored custom of our family. It has always been the rule of the Wallravens to settle that dower upon the lady whom their heir should select as a bride, and who should respond to his love. Her fasti- diousness must make her no exception to this rule. Indeed, her refilled delicacy and pure, high pride will prevent her , seeing the matter as you do. She will not for a moment degrade her sentiments by mixing them up with these sub- jects!" It was thus that the wayward and erring, but generous fellow ever deified even the greatest faults of his betrothed. I felt, when he spoke, that, with all his eccentricities, he was so much better than Regina as to be utterly blind to one thing which was quite apparent to me: namely, that as some diseases infect the whole physical system, so pride pervaded   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.    105 the whole mental and moral being of Regina Fairfield. Prile was the life of her love for Wallraven. Had not Wolfgang Wallraven been the eldest son. and heir of an ancient and immensely wealthy Virginia family, living in her own old ancestral neighborhood-had he not been singularly hand- some in person, graceful and dignified in manners, brilliant and profound in conversation, and endowed with genius that gave promise of an illustrious career--he never could have made so deep an impression upon Regina Fairfield's imagina- tion and heart. While seeing this, I saw in every glance, tone, and gesture, of Wolfgang, that he must have worshipped her under any circumstances. How passionately fond of her he was! How entirely devoted to her service! How patient-he, the will- ful, haughty, sarcastic Wolfgang-how patient of her arro- gance, her cold exactions! It always seemed to me that my beloved Regina walked in the moral illusion in which she had been brought up, as if the world had been created for her use and the people for her service. She accepted the most arduous and unremitting attention, and even the muni- ficent marriage settlement, with such real and sovereign nonchalance, as such a mere matter of course, deserving neither acknowledgment, gratitude, nor remembrance. And this regal indifference, which would have grieved me deeply, had I been in Wallraven's place, never affected him in the least.   CHAPTER NINTH. THE VICTIM BRIDE. "' A dream is on my soul I I see a slumberer crowned with flowers, and smiling As in delighted visions, on the brink Of a dread chasm I "--Hecan's Vespers of Palermlo. THEIR marriage day was at length fixed for the next Thursday fortnight. Bishop L    was to perform   the ceremony, immediately after which we were to set out for Hickory tHall. Wallraven had intended to go immediately to Paris, but Regina had expressed her will, that they should, according to the wish of the old gentleman and the time honored custom of Virginia, spend the honeymoon in retirement, at the patrimonial house of the bridegroom, Hickory Hall. '  Wallraven hesitated, looked disturbed, made--I know not what sort of excuse for opposing this plan. Regina good-humoredly persisted in her purpose. Wallraven expostulated seriously. Regina was charmingly immovable. For the first time in their lives, Wailraven decidedly ve- toed her will, and gave it his final determination, for reasons of the utmost moment, to proceed to Paris.    Wolfgang gave this decision in a firm, grave, though affectionate tone; but Regina became extremely offended. Finally- Wallraven bowed his will to hers, and retired to his chamber with a gloomy brow, to write and accept his fa- ther's invitation, and prepare them to receive us. Wolfgang remained in his room all the forenoon; and 6so, when I wished to speak to him--thinking that lie h1ad surely (106)   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     107 long finished his letter--I went to his door, and, according to our usual familiar and unceremonious habit with eac}ht other, without rapping, entered his room. TIe was so closely engaged in writing--so absorbed, in fact--that he did not perceive my entrance until I had ap- proached the side of his chair, and had involuntarily seen that he had reached the fifth page of a foolscap letter. I spoke to him.           , He started, thrust the letter into his writing-desk, and turned around. He looked paler, more gloomy, than I had seen him look for six months, or more. He told me that, in consequence of the change of plan, by which we were to go to Hickory Hall, instead of abroad, he had written, among other things, for his sister Constantia to come on and be present at his marriage, inquiring of me, with much interest, how I supposed Miss Fairfield would like Constantia. I told him what I thought, namely--that Regina could not fail to admire and love Miss Wallraven. He seemed pleased, and then I reminded him of an en- gagement he had made to ride with me that afternoon. He smiled mournfully-said that it had escaped his memory, but that he would soon be ready. From this time it was evident that Wallraven's cheerful- ness was gone. He had apparently purchased peace with his bride at a very dear and dangerous rate. His gloom deepened day by day, or was varied only by fitful flashes of. false gayety, or spasms of sharp anxiety. These evil symp- toms, however, were never betrayed except 'in the absence of Regina. In her presence he would always resolutely command himself, and act a gay tranquillity which was far ' from his real state of feeling. I do not know. whether Re- gina penetrated his mask or not. If so, she never permitted me to see that she did. She was certainly very much pleased with the prospect of going to Hickory Hall, and of having Constantia Wall-   108    HCKORY HALL; QR, THE OUTCAST. raven for a bridesmaid and a traveling companion. Smil- ing, she said to me one day, "Do you know, Ferdinand, what makes me so wicked about this matter of going to Hickory Hall? It is to see that fine old Virginia gentleman, whom I shall love as a fa- ther, and whose love I wish to win. I cannot bear the idea of going to France without even setting eyes upon him whom I love to regard as a second father. I do not care if the old Hall is tumbling down! There is a certain prestige of 6Id:l respectability about that dilapidated building, which does not always surround a smart-looking new tenement, however large and costly." Then turning to Wallraven, she said, "Such an absurd mistake of your highness, my Black Prince! that of supposing that I should be shocked at the worn appearance of the old house!" The day previous to her wedding-day she came'into my room. Smiling and sinking softly in a chair at my side, she said, "Oh! Ferdinand, I am so well pleased. Wolfgang has a letter from his father, and now it is certain that Miss Wall- raven will be with us this evening, and attended by-whom do you suppose? her twin brother, Constant, Wolfgang's younger brother! You never tol!d me of him!" "I knew nothing about him! What a queer, silent fel- low your parti is, Regina! I wonder how many othei bro- ,thers and sisters, aunts,hncles and cousins are to turn up." "Oh, none! This Constant, who is a. year younger than Wolfgang, has been for twelve months traveling in Europe, and has recently returned." "Ah! and they come this evening?" "Yes! Ah, Ferdinand!  I shall have a sister, I do not. care for Constant much. I do not care for the brother I shall gain, for I have already one dear brother; but I care very much for the father and the sister I shall have. I have been lonely, Ferdinand. I have borne within my bosom a   HCKORY HALL;: ORI THE OUTCAST.    10)9 cold heart, because I have had no mother or sister to keep it warm. For some reason or other, I never formed a fe- 'male friendship in my life. I never could bring myself to make advances to other young ladies, and something within me repelled others from making advances to me. I have, with all my independence, needed that sisterly relation. Gene- rally, I have been cold and strong enough; yet sometimes I have felt myself suddenly droop, with an utter weakness, for the want of some gentle woman friend whom I could lQye, whom I could trust. Now, in the failure of a sister of my own, my husband's, sister will become inexpressibly dear to me; at least, I feel as if it would be so. I 4tink it will be her own fault if it be not so." I wondered to hear Regina speak so. It was the first glimpse, with one exception, that I had ever had of the heart within her cold bosom. Yes, I wondered, until I remem- bered that under the snow of earliest spring the grain still germinates unseen in the warm and genial soil. That evening, according to appointment, Mr. and Miss Wallraven arrived. In the bustle of their arrival, I had little opportunity of making observations. After supper, however, when we were "all-the three Wallravens, Regina and myself-assembled in our parlor, I had every facility for studying my prospective relatives. First, I saw that Regina was more than satisfied with the new brother and sister. Constant Wallraven was nearly the fac simile of Wolfgang -the same tall, slight, elegant figure, the same haughty set of the head, the same light-gray blazing eyes, the same wilder- ness of slightly curling, silky black hair, jet black eyebrows, and long, black lashes. But he looked stronger, older, and more settled than Wolfgang. He looked as if at some time not far distant in the past, he had been just such a chaotic assemblage of discordant elements as Wolfgang now was; and as if some mighty power had forcibly subdued the   "O    HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. chaos, bringing out of it a world of harmony, beauty and strength. Withal, there was an expression of frankness, good humor, and health of mind'and body, on his handsome' face, which testified that the transforming power, whatever it had been, had not crushed but disciplined him. Only by the perfect repose, perfect harmony of these antipathetic elements of character betrayed in his features and complex- ion, could one judge of the pre-existerice of a disciplining experience. One saw in him now a man who, though still quite young, had gained the great victory of his life: whose manner of existence and work was henceforth defined, laid out, and well understood. I felt instinctively a high respect for, and a strong attrac- tion to Constant Wallraven, as to a soul more exalted than, my own.  Constantia was the same dark, Majestic, superbly beauti- ful woman I had seen her by, night at, Hickory Hall. I do not know that myartist taste was ever so highly gratified as by comparing there two youn grls, Constantia and Regina, both so perfectly beautiful, yelt 'so opposite in their forms, -features, and complexion; yes? aid style-though both wre of. the -queenly order. Constantia's was a national dignity, Regina's a conventional stateliness. Upon the whole, we were all pleased'with each other, and it was on the stroke of twelve before we parted for the night. Once or twice I had observed an unwonted thoughtful- ness upon the usually clear, open countenance of my sister; but that was so natural under the circumstances, that it made no impression on my mind. When I. had retired to my robm, however, and before I had time to begin to take off my dress, I heard a tap at my room door, and, thinking that it was of course Wolfgang, I bade him come in. The door opened, and my sister entered, and sunk softly down in her usual seat, near my dressing-table. I looked at her inquiringly, anxiously. The stately gayety which had dis- tinguished her all the afternoon' and evening had quiter   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.    1ll gone, and the thoughtfulness that had once or twice, cloud- like, flitted past the sunshiny snow of her countenance, was now settled into a profound gloom. "My dear Regina, you look so grave! but then this is a serious time to you!" To my astonishment, she burst into tears, and dropped her head upon my dressing-table. "Regina, my dear sister, what is this? Tell me?"But she sobbed on. "Regina, you alarm and distress me! What is this ." But she sobbed on, and I sat down by her side, .took her hand and pressed it, while I waited/ silently for her to tell me the subject of her-grief. When her fit of weeping had expended itself, she lifted up her head, dried her eyes, and, after remaining silent and still for a little ,while, she said, "You think me now sentimental, maudlin, sickening. I feel that you do. I am not that. I 'never was so. You ought to know it." "I do know it, my dearest sister; and sentimentality is the last fault I should suspect you of. I know that you are strong, cool, and spirited-therefore I have been the more surprised and distressed at your tears this night. I. know that it is natural-nay, generally inevitable--that a girl should drop some-not very bitter-tears on bidding good-;  bye to her maiden life and liberty; but I had scarcely ex- pected to see you do so, inasmuch as you have less to regret, and more to hope for, than most young maidens similarly situated-nevertheless, I suppose these ' natural tears' must fall!" said I, gently caressing her. She replied mockingly, "Ah! it -is quite proper for a bride to weep, then? Like the ring and the white kid gloves, it is an indispensable in- gredient in the wedding-dish --It is understood and ex- pected of us,'in short-and people would be, shocked and disappointed if it were omitted." "6 Regina-sister," said I, tenderly,   "2     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. "Certainly! Half the trashy songs I learned to sing at school were-not after my own taste, the martial-but such mawkish ditties as the ' Bride's Adieu,' &c." "Humph! Wolfgang's queerities are certainly conta- gious; that I know of my own experience," said I; and I dropped suddenly into a short reverie upon the contagion of resemblance, between persons of no consanguinity who love each other and are constantly associated. Feeling too deeply interested in my sister's emotions to indulge, even for five minutes, in this tempting subject, I turned, stole my arm around her waist' and said, gently, "Regina, my dearest sister, to-morrow I will scarcely have a right to do this," and I gathered her to my bosom, and pressed my lips to hers. "To-morrow, certainly, I shall have no right, to question your happiness, or the state of:. your affections; do not, therefore, be proud or cold toward me, like your worse self; and do not be sarcastic, bitter, or satirical toward me, for that is not like yourself at all. That you have caught from Wolfgang; but, tell me, what has so deeply, strongly moved you this evening? It is not an imaginary grief, nor a real one, if slight, that could trouble you 'so much- what is it then? She did not reply; but remained in my lap with her arms thrown up over my shoulders, and her face over my bosom. I spoke again. "You have apparently less to alloy your happiness than almost any other bride. You have less to regret and more to hope for. You leave no dear, familiar home, no honored father, no beloved mother, no dear sister-wherefore should you grieve!" "I leave you, my dearest brother! I leave you, the sole remnant of our family circle! IY leave you, who stood to me for father, mother, sister, home!" "Yet leaving me, dearest Regina, should not cost you a sigh! nay, it will not! Dearly as we have ever loved each   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.    113 other, we lhave not been together much; therefore you will still remember .and love me, without -throwing away a sigh upon my absence." "Yes! so you have judged my heart! You have studied me so well!" she replied, almost bitterly. "The one thing I looked forward to in life was a re-union with my only bro- ther, Ferdinand-and you know it was the main topic of all my letters; yet not you judge me able, to part with you for a long, indefinite time-perhaps forever-without pain." "At least, so I would have it, -dearest sister. I am not so selfish as to wish you to regret my absence!" "But I should regret it! I shall regret it, if I cannot persuade you to go with us, as I hope to do! as I must do!" "As you will not do! But it is not I for whom or by whom you sorrow now! Tell me, then, what it is, dearest sister, while it is not yet too late! To-morrow-yes! in seven hours from this-for it is now one o'clock-I shall have no right to ask you!" "I will tell you, then. My heart is dreadfully oppressed! Oh, how I do wish that I had a mother, an aunt, a married sister, a matronly friend-any wise gentlewoman, upon whose bosom I could lay my head as I lay it now on yours, and ask her in a whisper if upon the eve of her bridal day she was visited with such terrible forebodings as I am now -such anxieties-such funereal presentiments!" "- How long has this been so with you, Regina!" "Oh! for days, or rather, for nights past-in the day time I have been amused, and forgetful; but at night, as soon as I get to sleep, I start from my first sleep in a sudden and terrible panic! just as a condemned criminal might suddenly be awakened out of deep, sweet sleep, with the sudden re- collection that he was shortly to be hanged. To-morrow is my wedding-day; yet it terrifies me as though it was the day of my execution! I do not believe Madame Roland and the heroines of the Reign of Terror dreaded the guillo- tine half as much as I dread the altar!"    "4     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. Gloomily as my sister spoke, or, perhaps, because she did speak so gloomily of what appeared to me to be only Con- siderable exaggeration of a very natural feeling, for the life of me I could not help laughing, in which, to my surprise, I was joined by Regina, who raised her head from its resting- place, and, arising from my lap, sat down beside me. "I would be an old maid, then, if I were you. There is no law .against it, and this is a free courntry!" said I. "I know it is foolish-this presentiment " "Presentiment!" "Yes, presentiment-this dark, uncertain, slippery, cold feeling of the precipice edge!" she replied, gravely-her flush of mirth quite gone, "But this will pass away in a few days, Regina. You, love Wolfgang."            "Yes, and dread him  more! Oh! listen, Ferdinand! Listen, my dear brother! I will open my heart to you this first and last time! this once! for to-morrow, as you say, you will have no right to inquire into the secrets of my bosom. I will have no right to communicate them to-morrow; this would be an infringement of my marriage vow; to-morrow my oath of allegiance would make these confidences treachery. Listen then! I do love Wolfgang quite as much as I am capable of loving any one-almost as much as he loves me. I have loved him almost from the first evening of our meeting; but, since our engagement, lately-now listen! for, contradictory as what I am now about to tell you may appear, it is never- theless true-though inexplicable to me, as it may seem to you. Lately, as I said, while I am strongly attracted to Wolfgang, I amn as strongly repulsed! It is as if some prin- ciple in my being were powerfully drawn toward him, while another principle was as powerfully repelled; or, as if some element in Wolfgang's nature possesses for me irresistible fascination, while some other element affects me with disgust --which fills me with remorse-which I endeavor to con- quer-which I only succeed in concealing!" If----   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     115 "( You have succeeded in that! I never suspected it!" "Thus, you see, my bosom  is made the battle-field of warring emotions, and over all broods this dark presentiment, like the lowering black clouds of some approaching and de- structive storm!" "Do not marry hi!"? said I, earnestly. "I must! The hand of fate is on me! I have no power to stop hiyself!" "Then I can stop you! I can be stronger than fate! You shall not be married!" - "But I will! I love him! If I had the power I would tear out from my bosom that which occasionally recoils from him, though it were one ventricle of my heart! It is half past one o'clock; my marriage-day has come, dearest brother; dearest, only brother! I only came in to kiss you." "To give me an opportunity, for the last time, of press- ing my maiden sister to my bosom," said I, as I held her there.. "Yes!. and with no intention of afflicting you with my equinoctial storms- 9 "You--what!" "My equinoctial storms-the clouds, the thunder, light- ning, and showers, that have marked my approach to the line matrimonial!" And 'dashing clouds and tears from her now sparkling face, she kissed me and vanished from the room. In the silence of the -night, after she had left the chamber, I heard the pattering of rain-drops against the windows. I went to them and looked out, and found, the sky black ,and lowering with clouds, and the streets drenched with rain. I turned away, and at last throwing off my clothes, lay down to try to sleep. My spirits were heavily oppressed. There is nothing more disheartening than to'feel some evil fate im- pending over those we love, and to know ourselves powerless co avert it. However, wearied out, and lulled by the seda-   "6  H  1ICKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. tive pattering of the rain-drops, I fell into a dreamless sleep, and slept till morning. It was a dark, drizzling; dull morning. At seven o'clock we met in the parlor, to go together to church. We had ordered breakfast at eight. The stage in which we had en- gaged places was to start at nine. Wallraven looked happy and-frightened, and seemed to strive for self-command. Regina's countenance, like a spring sky, seemed all the brighter for her equinoctial storm. She wore a beautiful dregs of full white blonde over white satin, with fine lace trimmings, and pearl bracelets and necklace on her arms and neck, and a pearl bandeau turning back her blonde hair, and fastening a large, floating, mist-like vail. Miss Wallraven was attired in a somewhat similar style. Again I was struck by the contrast presented by these two young women--the blonde and the brunette-both so dazzling, beautiful, yet so unlike. One, clear, bright, morning sunshine-the other, resplendent starlight. We stepped into the carriage, and were driven to the church. We found Bishop L    punctual, waiting for us. We ranged ourselves before the altar, Constant and Constantia acting as groomsman and bridesmaid, and I giving away the bride. After the ceremony was over, we returned, accompanied by bishop L   , to breakfast, and in an hour afterward, bidding adieu to our venerable friend, we took our seats in the stage and set out upon our journey to Virginia. The rain ceased and the sun shone out at noon. It had been arranged among us, as the season was very beautiful, and certain parts of the country through which our roads lay very picturesque, that we should travel leisurely, taking a week for the journey. At Washington we found ie large family carriage of the Wallravens, that had been sent to meet us there, and that had been waiting for us for several days. We remained in the city two days, to visit the Capitol, Navy Yard, Govern- e,   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.    117 ment Departments, &c., and the third day entered the capa- cious and comfortable traveling carriage, and set off for the Blue Ridge and Hickory Hall. This journey, from Wash- ington to the Blue Ridge, was one of the most delightful journeys I ever took. Our carriage was not only convenient, it was luxurious. We were attended by our own servants, took our own route, and kept our own hours. We managed to be six days on a route that we might have traveled in two. Sometimes, at sunrise, after an early breakfast, we would leave the inn at which we had passed the night, and travel leisurely but twenty miles through some picturesque country, reach another quaint country inn by noon, eat din- ner, and, after an hour's repose, order saddle horses, spend the afternoon in excursions about the neighborhood, return to tea, and occupy the evening in conversation, or books and music, with which we were provided. We would sleep then, and 'the next morning resume our journey, which would be continued with some pleasant new variation. Miss Wall- raven and myself were thrown very much together, and I found her mind and heart as rich and well cultivated as her person was beautiful and her manners charming. I ad- mired her with enthusiasm; yet, not for one moment was I in the slightest danger of falling in love with her, even if there had not been something in her manner that politely kept me at a certain distance. A's for Regina and Wolfgang, they behaved- very much like any other bride and groom upon their wedding journey-they seemed fond, and- shy, and tremulously happy. In approaching the mountains, and the old neighborhood of the Northern Neck, first settled by her ancestors, Regina became deeply interested in features of the landscape and the local history of the country. Upon reaching any high point on  the road, she wol order the carriage to be stopped, and while she surveyed the extensive and- varied landscape, with its far-apart country-seats and farm-houses, siirrounded with their .little town-like groups of out-houses ..,   "8     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUlTCAST. and negro-quarters, and while she picked out with her quick and scrutinizing glances the oldest homesteads of the old set- tlements, she would ask of Constant Wallraven a score of questions about their first proprietors. The public and pri- vate history of many families she knew by fire-side tradi- tions, so as to recognize them as soon as they were named, and look with alnother and a deeper interest at the places of their habitation. On approaching, however, that grand pass of the Blue Ridge, known as the Bear'sWalk, the historical and tradi- tional interest of the country gave place in her mind to a rapt enthusiasm, as she gazed, silenced and transfixed with admiration and awe, upon the sublime uild even savage as- pect of nature. It was the fifth day of our journey that we began to ascend the great pass of the Bear's Walk, from the highest point of which Regina gained her first view of Hickory Hall, and saw it under the most favorable circumstances, and in the most favorable light, namely: We had ridden slowly that day, only fifteen miles, and. through the most sublime and beautiful scenery in the world; and now, quite fresh, we found ourselves in tle middle of a lovely summer afternoon, upon the summit of the mountain-pass, and gazing down withl delighted surprise upon a scene of almost ideal beauty, not to be equaled on earth. I wondered at the enchanting transformation made by a different and more genial season, and another and a brighter hour. The scene which on a dark, tempestuous winter night had seemed a Gehenna, a Hades, to me, now, in the light of a summer day, appeared a Happy Valley, a Garden of Eden-Elysium itself. A cup-shaped, small, and deep green vale, shut in by a circle of high mountains. Deep in the bottom of this green vale, gem-like, was set the old hall, where, in the beams of the evening sun, it glittered and flashed with the ruby o.   HCKORY HALL; Ol, THE OUTCAST.      11 9 lustre of long-exposed red sandstone; around it spread green pastures, embossed with wliite flocks of sheep; beyond these waved yellow fields of grain, ripe for the si'ckle; around them passed a girdle of forcst trees-behind which arose the circle of intense blue mountain s, with their sum- mits against the transparent golden horizon. .Through all ran the clear mountain stream, which, springing from   a rock at our feet, anld leaping down the side of a precipice, glided, flashing in the sun, through the midst of the beautiful vale. Over all smiled the most radiant sky-shone the most splendid sun, I had ever seen. "C ow beautifil! how beautiful ! It is a terrestrial Para- dise!" cxclaimed Regina, with enthusiasm. But," inquired she of Constant Wallraven, while scrutinizing the old hall, ' why does not your father repair, or rather rebuild, the old house!" M My father thinks of selling the property." O"Of selling thlat Eden!" "Yes! alnd we all think it the best plan, under existing circumstances." The difficult descent of the precipice interrupted further conversation. The road, however, was in its best condition, and in twenty minutes we had reached the bottom, and soon after drew up before the door of Hickory Hall. Mr. Wallraven, with the same suit of black, contrasting so strongly with his snow-white 1hair, with the same vener- able appearance, the same social and stately bealing, ad- vanced from the hall to receive us. \                     .   CHAPTER TENTH. THE HAG. A fearful sign stands in thy house of life, An enemy; a fiend lurks close behind The radiance of thy planet: oh, be warned!--Coleridge. \ WOLFGANG, alighting, handed out Regina, and leading her up the stone steps, presented her with stately and affec- tionate courtesy. We all followed in turn, and were wel- comed in the most cordial manner. Mr. Wallraven conducted Regina into the house. I fol- lowed, with Miss Wallraven upon my arm. Constant and Wolfgang paused behind an instant, and, as I turned to lock after them, I saw old John at the end of the portico, and beheld Wolfgang step quickly up to him, and heard him inquire, rapidly, under'his breath, "Is she safe?" And the low reply, "All secure there, sir!" "That is well! I shall remember your care for us, John." The old man bowed in silence, and Wolfgang immediately stepped after us. This little interlude had not occupied ten seconds. We entered the hall, and were each immediately shown to our separate room. Old John took me into a different chamber from that which I had occupied before, telling me, with a slight smile, that my former sleeping apartment had 'been prepared for Mrs. Wallraven, as it was the most comfortable one in the house. (120)   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.    121 He then went and ordered, up my baggage, and in the course of half an hour, with the help of John I had re- freshed myself with a bath, a shave, and a change of dress. I even went down into the old oak hall, which had been furnished up in hohor of the bride's arrival-that is the oak' floor and paneled wall had been rubbed, waxed, and polished, until they shone with a mirror-like lustre, ,.ld the wide fire-place had been filled with cedar branches, while on the mantle-piece and on the window-sills were placed vases filled with white lilies, Regina's favorite flowers. I found in the drawing-room, with Mr. Wallraven and Constant, Mr. and Mrs. Davenport, and two young ladies, their cousins--all of whom had come over to Hickory Hall to meet our bridatparty. In a few minutes, Wolfgang and Regina entered, and it was, evident her dazzling fairness and stately grace, her whole high, pure style of beauty and of bearing, made what is called a great "sensation," though on a small scale- namely, the small party met there to weleome her. Soon after the introductions were over, dinner was' an- nounced. Well! this dinner was like most other Virginia country wedding dinners--more abundance than .elegance, and more hospitality than ostentation. Soon after an early tea, the Davenport party took leave, previously inviting the Wallravens and myself to dine at the parsonage the third day from that-an invitation which Wolfgang accepted in the name of the whole family. When they were gone, we returned from  the portico, where we had been standing to see them off, and re-entered the hall. It was a pleasant place in a summer evening twilight. There were many windows, commanding various sublime and beautifulyviews, and soft, warm, pleasant airs, and the sweet, vague musical sounds came through them. I noticed Wolfgang and Regina seated at one of the end windows, enjoying the delicious hour without conversation,   122     HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. or only conversing by seeking eaeh other's eyes, or by an occasional low tone. When the full harvest moon arose, Mr. Wallraven invited us all to come out and walk, and view the scenery by moon- light. With the same stateliness of an'old-school gentle- man, he gave his arm to Regina, and led the way. Each member of the family vied with each other in assiduous yet delicate attentions to our bride. We" spent an hour very pleasantly in strolling through the beautiful and moonlit vale, aqd then returned to the drawing-room, where refresh- ments were ordered. While we were standing around the centre-table in gay conversation, (never before had I seen any member of the family so cheerful,) old John appeared at the door with an anxious expression upon his time-worn face. Mr. Wallraven arose in haste and went out to him. Con- stantia turned pale, and Wolfgang glared at the intruder with starting eyes and a scowling brow. I saw that some misfortune had occurred, or was about to occur. Mr. Wallraven closed the door behind him while talking with the old man; while Wolfgang, as if lost in the sense. of other presence, continued to strain his gaze after them. In a moment, Mr. Wallraven put his head in the door, and beckoned Wolfgang. He started up and shot from the room, without a word of excuse or apology, banging the door to after him. Constant and myself were left alone -with the two young ladies. Regina looked in surprise from the brother to the sister, and then, with her habitual self-possessio n and politeness, lowered the blaze of the solar lamp so as to throw a soft light upon the table, and, taking up an engraving, made some critical remark upon its merits, submitting it to Con- stantia's judgment. But Constantia was pale, trembling, and distrait, and gave some, reply wide of the mark.   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     123 Constant, however, with a deferential "Permit me, ma- dam," took, and, with Regina, examined the picture. Con- stant was pale and stern, and seemed to have mastered the betrayal of some strong emotion. They criticised -the picture, which was "The "Writing on the Wall." Regina, Constant, and myself, might have passed a tole- rable hour, had it not been for Miss Wallraven's increasing and extreme distress. She looked like a second Cassandra, aid would start and shudder, pale and glare, as though in momentary expectation of some appalling sight. Her't anxiety became so intense that apparently she could endure it no longer, but touched the bell, and, at the entrance of a servant, ordered chamber lights, and, turning to Regina, said, "Mrs. Wallraven! the clock is on the stroke of twelve, and you have had a fatiguing day. I am ready to show you your chamber." Regina arose, and, slightly bowing her G"Good night," left the room, followed by Constantia. I soon after arose and retired to my own, which was on the same floor with that of Regina. I know not what presentiment suddenly overcrept my mind, but, oppressed with a vague and terrible anxiety, I sought to sleep in vain. Finally I returned to the drawing-room. -Constant was gone. It was now empty. The room was so large that the light upon the centre-table barely served to make darkness visible, except in its immediate vicinity. I put up the light of the lamp, and walked up and down the floor, restlessly expecting, but without connecting that feeling with my un- accountable gloom, the return of Mr. Wallraven and Wolf- gang. I know not how long I might have been waiting there, when the door swung noiselessly open, and Regina re-entered the room, her hair in disorder, and a dressing- gown hastily thrown on. I turned wonderingly to imept her. d ,                    .   * /      l 124    HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. I saw then that her fair face was blue-pale, and that she trembled with a nervousness I had never seen her betray before. "My dear sister! What is the matter 1" asked I, leading her to an easy-chair, into which she immediately sank. "I do not know! Perhaps a dream! Perhapg something real. Listen! I went to ,my chamber attended by Miss Wallraven only, and no dressing-maid. Miss Wallraven assisted me to disrobe; but every few minutes, with a corru- gated brow and straining eye, she paused to listen or to watch. Finally she concluded her task, and when I was in bed she drew the curtains, and was about to leave me. Sud- denly she turned back and advised me to bolt the door behind her, and then left the room. I did not get up to bolt the door, because I should have had to get up a second time to open it, but I fell asleep, wondering what negro might be on the point of death, or what other trouble had called the Messrs. Wallraven so abruptly from the house. Well! I had no sooner fallen into a deep sleep, than I awakened as by the shock of a galvanic battery, just in time to see the most diabolical-looking old hag that ever nightmare created stooping over me, gazing into my opened eyes with a grin of malignity that seemed to freeze all the blood in my veins. I started violently forward, and she vanished. I was instantly' bathed in a cold sweat. I thought this might be a dream, and resolutely composed myself to sleep again-only to be ) started out of my sleep again by another and a more violent electric shock, and to see again the same eyes of demoniac hatred gazing into mine, to make another instinctive boufd, and see the terrible night-haunter vanish as before! It was impossible now to sleep, or think of sleep. I hastily threw on my dressing-gown, slipped my feet into slippers, and came down here to await the gentlemen. I have heard of night- mrare?, but this is the first time I ever was attacked with it, and it was very natural that my excited imagination should theiaate the illusion of the old hag, after your telling me   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.    125 of what you saw or fancied you saw in that chamber the first night you slept there  There! I feel truly humiliated at these tremors, which I cannot control  Ferdinand! there she is now!" This last sentence was spoken in a tone of discovery and announcement, as one might use upon finding out an ima- ginary phantom to be an ugly old woman. I turned and saw, standing within the door in the full light of the candle she held above her head, the hag of my night-vision. She was the most loathsome specimen of humanity I had ever seen, as she stood there some seconds, examining us with the same leer of insult and malignity. There she stood, chuckling with a fiendish grin at the very loathing she ex- cited-repaying the extreme of disgust with the extreme of hatred. "' What do you want?"I asked. "Hik-hik-hik-hik!" she answered, with her low, wicked laugh, passing me, and going toward Regina. "Leave the room!" said I, intercepting her. She did not heed me, but went on. "6 Will you leave the room 1" again I asked. "Yes, when I have kissed my pretty niece," she replied, nodding her head at me with a demon grin. I stepped quickly up to Regina, with the intention of lead- ing her from the room, and from the revolting presence of what I now supposed to be some gibbering and malign lunatic. I drew Regina's arm within my own, and we were coming down the length of the room, my sister, with an expression of disgust amounting to p'ain, contracting her beautiful fea- tures. We passed to one side, in order to avoid meeting the hag; but she knew our purpose, crossed the room, and in- tercepted us. "Out of our way! Off with yourself instantly 1" ex- claimed I, angrily. "Yes! when I have kissed my pretty niece!" "   126    HCKORY HTALT; OR, THE OUTCAST. "Begone!" said I, turning off to the other side. "Yes! I will, when I kiss my pretty niece!" she per- sisted. I did not wish to hurt, and I could not have brought my- self to touch the filthy creature. I took up a parasol that, lay upon the table, and, placing one end of it against her chest, bore her gently off. She left, and, retreating, planted herself within the doorway. I came on with my weapon, half laughing at the Quixotic figure I'cut, charging upon a mad, old negro woman with a parasol, and placed the end of it, as before, against her chest, saying, "Come! Be good! Let us pass!"' But suddenly she raised her talon hand, clutched my weapon, threw it behind her, and, elevating the streaming tallow candle with the other, gazed upon Regina with ,a countenance full of curiosity, hatred, and expected triumph. My sister drew her arm from mine, and retreated. "Hik-hik-hik! my pretty niece; you are very fair and very proud! but pride goeth before a fall, and a haughty temper before destruction." "Off with yourself this moment!" said I, losing patience, "or I'shall be tempted to contaminate myself, and put you out!" "I dare you to touch me!" she said. "I shall certainly do so if you do not move in one min- ute." "Yes! in a minute, but let me kiss my fair, pretty niece first!" "You are mad! That lady is Mrs. Wallraven!" "I know it! My nephew Wolfgang's wife!" I still thought her crazy; nevertheless an icy pang shot through my heart "Who are yout said I. "Nell! Old Nell! Yellow Nell! Slave Nell! Hugh Wall- raven's sister-in-law! Wolfgang Wallraven's 'aunt-his mo- ,    HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     127 ther's sister! Regina Wallraven's near relative! Yes! fair lady! proud as fair! you are my niece." * * * * X I turned to look on Regina I! to behold a body petrified, as it were, to stone!--from whence the light of reason had fled instantly and forever! "Come! let me embrace my niece!" and, laughing hid- eously, she advanced toward my sister. Regina turned, stepped upon a footstool, thence upon a chair, finally upon ,the centre-table, and seated herself upon a pile of books with an air of mad majesty and dominion. "Order out the guards! To prison with the traitors! To the rack I! to the rack with the beldame! Ourself will pre- side at the question!" I hurled away the hag, and went to my sister. "Regina!" ," My Lord Chancellor, let the Duke of Gray-eyes be im- mediately arrested upon our own charge of high treason!" "Regina! my dear sister!" "Let there be no delay! Summon the council! Our life and crown are no longer safe! Traitors lurk in our very bed- chamber, assassins hide in the very shadow of our throne! Already one of the ladies of our bed-chamber-our beloved Regina Fairfield-lies dead before us! The shaft that pierced her heart was aimed at our own sacred life!" "My God! My God!" "To the rack! to the rack with the beldame! Strain every limb and nerve and sinew to cracking, until she con- fess herself the tool of the traitor Gray-eyes!" "Oh! heaven!" "To the rack! to the rack with the hag! We will our- self preside at the question!" ' Regina!"  "Order out the guards! Summon the council! To prison! to prison with the traitor!" she exclaimed, rising in a sort of mad majesty, her form elevated and dilating, her eye blazing Kwith the fire of insanity, her unbound golden locks ,2                  ,.   128    HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. rolling in fallen glory to her waist, her left hand folding her rich dressing-gown about her as though it were the ermine purple, hber right hand extended in a gesture of high com- mand-a moment-and then lowered with the finger pointed to the door, as she said, "Lo! where the traitor Duke ob- trpdes himself into our very presence!" I turned to see at a glance Wolfgang Wallraven enter the room, and the hag shake her clenched fist at him, saying, "Now is my hatred glutted! Now is my revenge com- plete. Look to your fair wife!" Wolfgang's lightning glance caught the whole state of affairs instantly. Rage, grief, and despair, stormed in his face. With the bound of 'an unchained demon he sprang upon the hag, and, with his hands' round her throat, bore her down to the floor, placed his knee upon her chest, and nearly strangled her before I could prevent him. Rising, he spurned the beldame with his foot, and turned toward us. His typhoon of anger had subsided; despair, sorrow, tender- ness, were all to be seen now, as he approached Regina. "Off, traitor!" she shouted, seizing from the table an an- tique dagger, that lay there as an article of rare verte. He drew near her. "Off, I say!" she screamed, unsheathing and brandishing the dagger. "You come to death " "' I know it," said Wolfgang. "Off, traitor! you desecrate our very throne! Nay, then, it shall become your scaffold!" exclaimed she, furiously, shaking the dagger. "Let me die so!" he said, and stepped upon the footstool, thence upon the table, and threw his arms around her. With a savage cry she raised the weapon; the blade gleamed in the lamp-light an instant, and the nextt was buried deep in the breast of the wretched man, who, with- out a groan, fell backward, and rolled upon the floor. In the extreme frenzy of mania, Regina bounded from the table, brandishing the crimsoned dagger. 5,                  '      \   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     129 I threw myself suddenly upon her, cast my arms about her, but her struggles were so violent, andher maniac strength so great, that she must have escaped me, had not 'her screams brought the whole household from their beds and into the room. The scene of amazement, horror, anguish, and despair, that ensued now, defies all description. In the stormy chaos, I saw old Mr. Wallraven sitting on the floor, with the form of the fast-dying Wolfgang drawn into his arms and pil- lowed upon his chest. I saw Constantia, half dressed, with her black hair streaming, kneeling by his side, Wringing her hands. I saw all this, while, with the assistance of Constant Wall- raven, I was disarming and securing the maniac. "Father! she was mad, father! Do not let her be mo- lested; do not desert her. Protect her, father," faintly mur- mured the dying man. "Unhappy boy! tell me one thing. You did not deceive her! You told her your position!" ".Father, no! I had not the courage! I thought to have got her to France, where--oh, God! I die!-where she would never have known   " "i Oh, wretched Wolfgangr I I cannot reproach you now! Thllis deception has cost you your life!" "And her, her reason, father! I die by her hand! It is just! it is just! it is just! Oh! bring me near her! Let me see her again! Lay me at her feet! Let me die there!" "Oh! Wolfgang! wrong that you so terribly deceived that unhappy young lady!" "I loved her so-I loved her so-that, for the brief pos- session of her love, I endure death. Father! she must not die! She must recover. Nay, she will, when she knows her evil genius, her mortal foe, who loved her unto death, is dead! Take me to her! Lay me at her feet! Let me die there, looking upon her!" 8   130    HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. Regina was now lying on the sofa, exhausted by her frantic struggles. , Old Mr. Wallraven beckoned Constant, and between them Wolfgang was lifted, brought near the sofa, and laid upon the carpet, with his head supported:as before upon his father's arms. He looked up at her, but she,did not open her eyes to look upon, him. He feebly raised his hand and took hers. At the toucht she opened her eyes, and as soon as they fell upon him, with a frenzied cry of anguish and despair, she bounded to her feet, foaming at the mouth, and went into the most violent paroxysm of madness. Constant Wallraven and myself seized and tried to hold her; and while she was struggling, plunging, and screaming in our arms, Wolfgang raised himself upon his elbow, gave one long agonized look upon the wreck, fell back and died! * 40-  CHAPTER ELEVENTH. THE FATE. Thus lived-thus died they-never more on her Shall sorrow light, or shame.--Byroa. THE next day a coroner's inquest sat in the saloon, and the crowd, collected by the rumor of what had taken place, filled the house. I was the principal witness, and as soon as I had given in my testimony, and was permitted to retire, I wandered toward the chamber whence the terrible screams of the maniac bride still issued, filling all the air. C"?  Constant, Constantia, and myself, were constant and un- remitting in our attentions to my wretched sister. For two )days and nights she rav in high delirium, and then sunk, + under the united effects vf nervous exhaustion and opiates, ^  into a profound stupor.                , J ,   Id; }       ,                X   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.    131 Upon this second day the remains of the unfortunate Wolfgang Wallraven were committed to the grave. AHs funeral was perfectly quiet, attended by his own family and the Davenports. During all this time, I could realize to myself nothing that had taken or was taking place. I seemed out of my- self, in some unreal existence, and, sometimes wildly, despe- rately, hoped to wake and find it all a hideous. dream. That evening, when we returned from the funeral, I fol- lowed Mr. Wallraven into the library. "Give me," said I, " some explanation of that which has wrecked all our happiness!" "Be seated!" said the old man, himself sinking ex- hausted into a chair. I sat down and waited for him to speak. He leaned his forehead down upon his open palm, and, after a silence of a few minutes, sighed heavily, and said: "I am unequal, now, to the task of giving you any lengthy detail. Listen, then! I married my mother's maid. She was a quadroon girl, brought up at my mother's' knee; a simple, gentle child, whose life of chamber seclusion had kept her unspotted from the world; a loving, religious child, whose faith in her Heavenly Father was like a babe's inno- cent trust in its mother. She had been taught in her child- hood almost to worship her 'young master'-the mother's spoiled and willful boy-the idol of the household. She learned in girlhood to love him with all the blind and pas- sionate devotion of her race. I had the power of life and death over her-yea, of eternal life and death-for her life hung upon my love-her integrity upon my honor. The alternative for her was a ruined fame, a broken heart, and the grave; or the marriage ring and benediction. The alterna- tive for me was sin without infamy, or infamy without sin- or so it seemed to me in my passionate youth. I chose the latter. I loved her, I married her, and lost caste, I and my children, forever! The whole community recoiled in loathing   1 32    HCKORY' HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST. from us. The minister who united us was ungowned and degraded from his pulpit. Our marriage was declared ille- gal, and my mother, to oblige me to break the connection, made a will, just before her death, by which she left me Constance and her children, upon condition only of my never. freeing them. Upon my attempting to break this condition, they were to become the property of a distant relative. Con- stance brought me three children-Wolfgang, unhappy boy! and then Constant and Constantia. But they could not be my heirs, because they could not legally hold property. At my death they themselves would inevitably become the property of others. And the more legal light I brought to bear upon my mother's will, the more decided was this fact. My other property-the land, negroes, bank stock, hall, and mills-I inherited from my father, without restriction. I was unutterably wretched. Constance, seeing the misery of which she had been the innocent cause, fell into a deep mel- ancholy, from which neither the affection of her children nor my own love and unremitting endeavors could arouse her. Her health failed, and she died when Constant and Constantia were but twelve months old. Again I consulted the ablest lawyers in the State, only to be more than ever convinced that there was no possibility of setting aside my mother's will. There was not in all Virginia a father so unhappy as myself. A thousand times I prayed for the death of my children. If one of them fell ill, I watched the progress of his or her illness with extreme anxiety, not fear- ing they might die, but fearing they might live! Conscience, and not a wish that they should survive, induced, me to 1-pro- vide necessary nursing and medical attenance at such time. At last it suddenly occurred to me that I might easily evade ;. - the will. It is strange that this'expedient never struck me until years of misery had passed; but so it was in my case, and so I have often seen it in the case of others. The re- :: medies for what we conceive to be incurable ills often lie very  near us unseen or neglected. It suddenly struck me that   HCKORY HALL; OR, THE OUTCAST.     133 nothing Jindered my sending my children, while they were mine, to a foreign country, and transferring my whole pro- perty thither. I resolved to do so. My sons were then at college, and my daughter at boarding-school in the North. I was in robust health, and of a race never subject to illness or sudden death; therefore I felt that there was no occasion for hurry, and I was not in haste to sell, and leave forever my native soil, while my children were receiving their edu- cation. I determined, hewever, to do it upon the first indi- cation of declining health. Well, month slipped after month, and grew into years. Constant returned from Princeton, where he was educated, and commenced the study of divinity as a private pupil of Mr. Davenport. He formed an un- happy attachment, but Constant possessed a strong mind and righteous heart. He struggled with, and conquered his passion, coming out as pure gold from the furnace of his trial. After this experience, I determined to guard my un- happy children from forming indiscreet attachments. "When Wolfgang returned from Harvard, accompanied by yourself, I saw your sudden admiration of my daughter. I withdrew her from your presence. I warned Wolfgang against the society of young ladies. I knew nothing of your sister, or I never should have consented to his visiting you at your own home. The first knowledge I had of Miss' Fairfield was from the letter of Wolfgang that announced his engagement. Without literally telling me so, it was couched in such terms as, with other circumstances, to mis- lead me into the belief that she knew all! This was not unnatural. I thought that to some his infinitessimal propor- tion of African blood might be no objection--while his many distinguished  pardon me! It was a father's do- tage. Wolfgang told me in his letter that his bride had con- sented to depart with him to France immediately after the marriage ceremony. This afforded me the opportunity I wanted to secure a fortune to my son, by settling it upon Miss Fairfield-to which there could be no legal obstrut- ..      I.0   134    HCMOY HALIL; OR, THE OUTCAST. tion. A few weeks before the marriage I received& a long letter from Wolfgang, -telling me that his Regina, willful as charming, insisted on coming to Hickory Hall, and being introduced to her father-in-law before her departure for France. In this turn of affairs, he requested me to send Constant and Constantia to him, and, above all things, to im- prison old Nell,'whose very sight would appall Regina, and whose extreme boldness and malignity would assuredly in- stigate her to present herself before the bride." ' But what, then, is the ground of such malignity, and how could one so degraded be in any hmanner related to one so beautiful, so angelic, as was Constance, judging by yoqr description of her, as well as by a portrait I saw and missed the same night from the walls of my chamber, and which I now suspect to have been hers ." "Yes--it was hers--old Nell stole it that night. She had. long wanted the small personal effects of Constance, and had watched her opportunity of getting into the closed chamber. You left your door unlocked, and. she entered the room, rifled the bureau, and carried off the portrait, and had re- turned, it is likely, to rob 'you, when a slight sound of her steps attracted-Wolfgang, who happened not to have retired, but was in the next room. He followed her into your chamber the last time, and arrested her at your bedside. You asked me the cause of Nell's- malignity, and expressed astonishment at the idea of her relationship to Constance. She is, really, no blood-relation to Constance or my children. She was the step-daughter of Constance's father, and hence the claim 'to relationship, hence her presumption to a high degree of notice and favor, even while her extreme de- formity and her disgusting habits and vices; made her very presence in the meanest capacity insufferable; and hence ' her envy, hatred, and demoniac malignity. She openly said and swore among her fellows that she would 'kiss her pretty niece.' Upon the night, therefore, that the bridal :party was expected, we locked her up in her remote cabin, charging ,                       .      *%   /;, ,      ;'*   , , , , * : ' , , n I J HCKORkylALL; OB, THE OUTCAST.     35  old John with her custody. She escaped, and concealed herself, evidently with the object of seeking and insulting the bride. This gave me only uneasiness, for I supposed Regina at least knew our position; but it filled Wolfgang, who knew, and his brother and sister, who had lately dis- covered, the illusion under which your unhappy sister had given her hand in marriage, with consternation. While we were seeking the hag elsewhere, she had effected her en- trance to the house, and found her way to Mrs. Wallraven's presence! You were there! You know better than myself what followed. It is .necessary to repeat, however, that there, for the first time, I discovered the concealment that had been used toward the ill-fated lady. I have nothing more to tell. If I 'have sinned against the conventional usages of the socieiy in which I was born and lived, my whole life has been one long and terrible expiation." I took his hand and pressed it, and silently withdrew from the room. In the course of a week, I discovered that there was no one who possessed the least moral control over the maniac girl except Constantia. Mr. Wallraven prayed that she should remain at Hickory Hall, when I talked of removing her. In truth, the change from their affectionate though sorrowful care, to that of a lunatic asylum, would have been a most unfortunate one for the victim. She had the best medical advice that the country could produce,'or wealth could purchase. For more than a year, her malady has con- stantly increased until it has left her the ruin you see. I, also, Mary, was nearly blighted when you met, pitied, loved me. The reading of the manuscript had occupied.'the whole night. It was sunrise when I folded it up, and began to make my simple morning toilet.'"Before this was completed a low tap was heard at the door, and, to my "come in,"   1386.,     tt OKIiORY HALL; OR, THE OIJTCAST.  Mary entered, apparently just returned from her nightly visit. She sat down by the fire. "You have been to see Regina Fairfield, at Hickory Hall," said i "Yes," she replied. "And she-" "Died at one this morning-died in her senses-reason had returned at the approach of dissolution. She died for- giving all who had had a hand in her betrayal and wreck, and praying forgiveness for herself. She died upon Con- stantia's bosom." We attended the funeral of Regina Fairfield, which was conducted with great simplicity. We left Cedar Cliffs soon after. Upon our return from Virginia'we lost sight of the Wallravens of Hickory Hall for many years. We heard frequently by letter from Mary Fairfield, and knew that, the health and spirits of Ferdinand were gradually improving. In one of her letters to me, Mary mentioned that old MT. Wallraven had sold the property of Hickory Hall, and left the Sate, accompanied by his two children. This was the first and last time that Mary ever mentioned them in any of her letters.               "     
         
       
   
