
    ----CITATION----
        Robinson, J. H. (John Hovey) (b. 1825). Redpath, or, The Western Trail .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7621
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Redpath, or, The Western trail 
            
               REDPATH

iv  mN     nst

BY DR. J. H. ROBINSON.

NEW YORK:
PUBLISHED BY SAMUEL FRENCII,
121~ NASSAU STREET.

I

of, 'Aronflor


,.  "t Y{'4n I  45 4, ft z . Y     -f ~ '

4    A"'
7
of'(

4,
'{4
,. 4' , ,
'4'x y.F. _ "  ,

",4    r   r '  +~ /^  j   f4
'4e{E)lr  Cr",t-   Y '°fr+

'44

1~

CHAPTER Is-

IN WHICH THE HERO MAKES RIs ROW 'O THE ,READER.

- IT was night on the western prairies, and the
stars were glowing silvery ndsbft in the azure
arch. The gauzy spray of clouds sailing at in-"
tervals' across the quiet' heavens, 'obscured not
the mild lustre oftlife' 'moon, nor east a shadow
upon the Wilderness:
A youth of slender figure,lceiI in garb befit-
ting the hunter and bekwoodsrrian, was 'stand=
ing with meditative lirw upon a' gentle emi-
nence, leaning graeefdltiy upon his 'rifle,*irich
was of approved- make atid studied finish. his
features, though not strongly masculine' In
mould; were not unomely, tier Without the
prestige of thought. His maturity of expres-
sion was notably in contrastwith his otherwise
youthful ,'personnel.  is 'eyes were somewhat
dreamy impressirng the'liysiognomist with the
idea that his'imagination dweltIn a world vague
and impractical; far removed from the scenes of.
this but too real sphere.
'delowhim, at-the 0 r eof thehdill, the waters
of Kansas River weretflowing'; while' Athis
left the :distant peaks of the Rocky Mountains
were visible, toweringlin their sterk,, unehunging
g*andetur like everlis tiihgguardians of the-north
--ni ariny 'of' eteirnal ocupatie, 'ltech the
might of finite malt "e"n'sheveidongaer; 'itori
his right, prairiesutifolded their sceeery'like an
endless panorama, diversiflec y3'strips of tifn-
her, 'swalhps" of grass ad shiabdry. 'At CA

short distance froin theyouth, this smoke  of a
blazing fire arose in a misty ciun, forming
numberless  fantastic wreatlr. atid,'phistom
shapes. A solitary  re  ' was sti-et he'd'besid
the burning fagots, sleeping' as'6ouudl, appat
ently, as if domiciled beneath a helteiing roof,
and couched upon thedoftest b dI he'f Uth
approached the spot; at the' s'iiai  c' his foot-
steps the man sprang to his fet, casting 'jiibk;k
sharp glances around him. Ii moment his
gaze was fastened iunon thu~intite&amp;, :and he
relaxed his guarded ' atchiineis  ith' his
raven eyes he scanined'the :.bject that had ex-
cited liis attention; with strbnge auditionn df
contenipt' than cutiositf, orialarm. The youen
advanced, 'did beggingap.rdon forthe h trdusien,
expressed a hope tat he had hot disetrbed his
dreams, 'or awakened his fears.'
The person to 'whit'  t atse words wete ad-
dressedn, smiled, and tldng hiback pr,
toward the' youth, replied rt  sa rastic ly,
tiat he''seldom took the 'tireoh1'to 'dteam'; sai
forfe r  en Brionwas Astrabger toit a diia
certainty seen notbhniu to excite such'an emo-
tion for a long time.  t tiitted'he 0hadtoo
long been a sojourner Ina the *eat i'ioetrrife4
M trifief  ie then sdriked 'i sik hrtigg
tis'eholders, and  snile     i    &amp;. hefodi
iui dodbtless understood"the ei ~  ' meate
liig, bat  without appearing jtio e i added

ft

t                          i  a                                            ,.
~1      " "

"  +W      r t'.   n.r..;.   ry.=atr  ,  ! r    r  {  S5,      '  _'r,,      r. }l rf.
r L       ;"            r                     r      .r      tr          'r    1 '

V t
41,

IY    tiS'uV

,.
x:,, : r"

:'
f'
.
, ? ,y } .«

i               S
.    i C   l
4       !+.          t       Fir
i        4

' ,

R

i"


REIAH.

8

REDPATH.

'

that if his company would not be considered
particularly disagreeable, he would venture to
take- a seat by the fire, which seemed to him
very cheerful and inviting.
The individual who had styled himself Ben
Brion, replied that he was at liberty to please
himself in that respect, though he fancied that a
stuffed chair, or a feather bed, would agree bet-
ter with his constitution than any accommoda-
tion he could offer. The youth answered to the
effect that he was not fastidious ; that a blazing
fire would suffice for a night so serene and tran-
quil. He seated him elf,;pl eadtii 'ifle i the;
ground beside hire,  d n ead of tip  g his
attention to Bridof,'e ile  his study of the
heavens with an abstracted air.
At first, Brion scarcely deigned to notice the
stripling ; but presently condescended to honor
him with furtive glances, which, judging by the
expression of his features, did not ineease -his
esteem for his visitor. He obviously considered
him too poor in experience to be entitled to an*y
considerable share of a'tteition frn one who
had grown ripe in adventure, and won his
knowledge of ;he western wilds through mugh
l1ejsiuidy trapperpd mountaineeris prone
to pride bimlsf net ,little on his skill and
powers ofeA ranegd to regad ,the 3tnsic-
cessful,,teinfective end ginitiate rin his wan-
draig,peiloe,:life,  t, otht r feelings than
xesjtect pr ,a#atioi. 2Brigq might well .draw,
erparisgns.,n"lpeasure .his physical manhood
the youti, ipaspuch as his person was not
.g  p in gscu    e   yelopinent or athletic
gracp.- n ezeaak appearance the two were
quitp at  grp%, resent gcarcely an observ-
gbi fe t p     ipigarity. The difference to a
phird psty woulha ve been-very marked.
A t that porig 1ierp Was much rivalry exist-
ag b etwceh te;piousorganized fur comparties,
which often leld to ths mtost la peptable results.
The parties kept a jeplggs gatch of each other,,
xeegrig s    lthe uurntanly arts of low ,cn-
:to ;. sle4, baf e and ijre a rival ept r-
Rrise. T    re ,yreqf bterest were in eomgtinupl
operptoniptiang;pot unfregentl yin bl°kody
rgneoatres and ,etyi$1 reprisals. ;Being jp"the
p ploy of t e 4erican  ,r Con pany,. Ba jo,
1t uagnatprgly, ,bean tofel spieous of the
gut    n  gippry   etheer .he wq not in tge
9n py p thg pdye R- copfederacy--a ppy g
bip ~hoyernents, perchce. This conjecture
was not alegagpd tp-soften his prejudices, as

may be imagined,-because opposition was then
raging with great bitterness, aggravated by mu-
tual acts of hostility. It was a very important
season for those who were ambitious, to profit
by the hunter's craft. It was early in May, and
the trapping campaign was about to open. The
rival associations were hurrying to the rivers
and lakes where game, abounded, each nervously
anxious to outstrip the other, and obtain all the
advantages of a choice of ground ; and with
that object in view took every conceivable means
to epnceal their oap  ovements, and deceive
and ' rard the 'po ite' t rest.
Brie      gy         + grt Leavenworth to
complete some necessary transaction relating to
the American Fur Company, was then proceed-
ing to join the 'band, which had started several
days in advance. Being made acquainted with
these particulars, the reader will be able to form
a toldrahly correct idea of the trapper's position,
and the-train of thoughts the appearance of the
youth, under such circumstances, would be like-
ly to awaken. We 'must do him the justice to
remark that he was not innately inclined to be
discouute9us r .suspicious ; but lng experience
in the ways ad ,elps of aptgopistic parties,
had rendered ig Jeeply awake to strategy an4
covert deaLeg.a  esrget once arpuead, is ap)
to .give go petty o ecsions and grow stronger ;;
and possibly it was thus witi the trapper. He
eapdig,the stripling more in detail; bat de-
spite his ,unfreinly, doglis; was forced to ac-
knolpdige to lis eonscience,4hit he co4 sec
nothing that savored of evil in iscomely face.
1e had serious t©ugngts of det inng hipn, ho-
ever, with or wit out his opsent, and by adrpit
cress questQi4g, or positive menaee,a draw
forth his purpose.
Bute next pnomnent 1e was ready to blush
for planing such aviolationof wild wood ipe"
vitality. He simply egngluled to. watch his
visitor, a4 if #e shared the: comforts of thefire
durig the ,gh(which he seemed disposed to
do), he would take such teps to fathom his ob-
ject as 14a  idgent migI t ggsst.   tfr phis
ipteuioa, p stretched;hiassif po is blanket,
For u short titp he .ept his face $trned toward
theg ~i4J~  goi hi sight 597yns'eady; the
srangevr;bee e a    ds4r e h9 4ire,the tees,
the shadows in the lclgroigd, theskies and
ths stare,, f  4,ps4.oh1naa jnto shynter,
Upon   yaki*gjp 1the monig, hi: rt un'
pulse:was to of or the youth; ,but he was not
there. ,Ngar    spt where the tr pper had

slept was a dead rtlesndtkc Which he must
hWve killed before defat'ting. He ha- left a
marktof good wif,Brlon eostasot-but coiifess.
The serpent mfght hare *bended hEi  fatally
While he slept, had'not the fridiidty offiees of the
youngster prevented such a catastr phe.
His- simple morning mneal despatiched, he
caught his Norse (whtch had been side4idiet
and- allowed to feed upon he ridly-grown
grass: at the' dlstaice of a- htitdrtdyatds from,
his-bitonac) indresumed' his way in aesterd
direction toward'the' Platte or Nebraska' Riv'en.
Three  days passed'without brirfgng any rctable'
adventure to the sturdy ilollutitiner. Oft the-
afternobn of the fourth he siw a 'tavelled ape
preaching, mounted upon tttge sor'tel horse,
the proportions and movements of which were
not calculated to inipress: the osrier *ith a
very high opinion of his qualities. *The a iimai"
was of ample size, but' pYesented various 'bony'
outlines and angles, seeniingly indicative of
scarcity of forage, or constitutional  raui s.
The= man riding thid unprepossessing beast, is
worthy a' passing descriptiki.
His garb was strikinglyffntastie, anid would
have appeared to prevailing taste very incon-
gruous, being made up of an odd'mni*ture Of'
savage and civilized app'arel'' e' was floww
stature, .bit of singularly rnastulitia develop-
ment, broad shoulders add" rprdiilnt  chest.
Hisaface had a good-humored epj'ession de-
spite the swamis of beard that- covered it, and
the elk-skin cap' draw  -low upon his bto.
There was the prestige of fun isthis snhiilIfet;
which had- a constant tWinkle. His:ride 'as
slung across his bask'by-a!leathier stra  Whent
within 'fifty rods of n6n Btio; e'raied n l bd
War-whoop andllutisis:eS  i tl'glahp,:per;
farming a serietof lidian'tiedttltis with hidi-
cro-s''effect.' Heiade lteo dr irleS rieund theu
monntaineer-at",a'falbte kginigztt the frthe&amp;'
sidof the animal and- pdag {notr itbade
ab if keenwoierik n ltrioabit-iginastyle,
shouting and yelling.
-To.~hunter his *hiei;tfiin eii tod and
rested hls"rifae ontlie pothiiel 'fhis sa l t#
re divehimt eiththieifreatrtilldet  rat  f
naenr, and the patieswIthnp rr dfOrlitysly
lhned,' and extefidd  7afh ifad   fi  hdio
Manye        eet   tre
prairies-of tieYWest ' Whatitr' feeling'of giA
tist=Biot wa'dla eWitt6 1arA  ois ,g
place-to genillty lethe dee d It'arme tag g

.acquaintance was not connected wid' any organ-
ized fur company, but prfdd hims lt ir belong-
ing to that roving; indeopendentdlia,5Triown as
.free trappers, whose homes- weretherountains
arid' prairies, and' whose pleasure 4d the ex-
citenleut of dan br.
Buckeye--such was the roer's'nane-vat in
good spirits, aia enlfeied tle wa 'by.i s witti-
claris' and' strange tales. A  iitalfh they en-
camped together guite amrdalily, liion taking
considerable pains tot Onlist  u'keye in his
brigade of hunters ; but hon iidated "that he
preferr'ed liberty to the gold anii sthority of a'
partisan leader.
Another serene evening folldwe'  Un4le to
sleep, 'ri6if left hish'erd conch ' ;  tepi ate
the starty beautiet'of the night, -and muse upon
:the arduous duties upon whi h "o wi enter g
The placid skies the melft Iiht, the murmur
of glistening waters, add'esse h nt conscious-
nesS''like pleasant voices. Whiie yielding to
the soothing influences atbund him, and gazing
dreamily at the varied aspects, Brfoin tatcled he
heard a slight nhov1eirent in a group of young
poplars at his right. l)isciplineid in a ciol of
severest watchfulness, he w'ad alien to  eund
inaudible to unpractised ears. ie' adv'adee
cautiously toward the spot wherce the noise
proceeded  He 'imagined, as he pladted ,the
branches of the trees, and ttpjO'd into the
thicket, he caught a vaghil glancof  an-object
ini rapid motion' beyond the-ishes, ee) y in
the shadow.' Xt might have been a human #g-
are; or itrigiit ha e bediB  udt ie reflection o
a cloud'thrown triasieiitly upoitlm op ei space
With his ride ready fbr instant  ,riioun  oved
forWard. ;Oil the m  '1ini  fthe'wrod hepause
atd exariinedifthe locality.  Ie *ddzah su -
prised at fidinr an Indian 'ahatcht stieing int
a tree Hearhiil  H     rfeit forth;"the bhandi
was yet wattfifroiii the Bit*  its' ' era A.
minute had not elsedao   ntbij-e it had'
1qeiled   ntfd intir fldigr        iun

#i
tt'
i
a
a
2
r .


10                                   1EDI
discovery. He returned to his camp fire thought-
ful. Buckeye was 'sleeping, and "Flash," his
horse, was standing . close by him, with ears
'erect and vigilant. Trained, like his master, to,
a life of perm, like him he had learned watchful-
ness. Some sound had reached him to excite
his fears or curiosity, and put him on the alert.
"Faithful creature !" mused Brion. "Expe,
rience has quickened his . senses, and made him
littlerinferior to reasoning beings."
The partisan (the leaders of those enterprises
werefhus call) awaked the trapper and related
what had pe  rad.: Buckeye stirred the fire,
took a bite of tobacco, rubbed his forehead, and
gave signs of uneasiness.
"There's a great difference in circumstances,"
quoth he, sagely. " Some things are easy to
explain, and ,omue isn't."
When he,had expressed thissentimnent, he
ained a jet of dark colored extract at a blazing
brang., "lash,' hearing his master's -well-
known, voice, came up and placed his nose on
his shoulder, as.if soliciting companionship.,
"The cretur knows me, stranger, and is rest-:.
less, wh'en I'm a good way off. We couldn't
part, Flash and I couldn't. 'Twould be a sorry
day for both of us if he should change owners.
But I hope that'll never be. 'Twould break his
heart'to have a redskin back -him. But that's
nothing to 'do with the subject; and as I said
afogo, in different ,wgtrds, some matters are,
mighty mysterious, and hard to get at under--
standingly.; There's strange characters in this
wild kentry, and one don't allers know: what's
arter him. The lateral reptiles of the sile have
a heap of epunin', and it's, never safe to ,het
both eyes at night.. We're tracked; that's evi-
dent enough; but by whom, is another question.
There's .danger st our backs, but which of us
two is spoe ffr, I can't say.. I'll tell yob more
about it artery we've passed fort-Laramie ; that
is, if we both should be alive then.";
"It wold- be wellto ;move off, leaving our,
fire burning, I suppose," returned Brio. "It
is opr'dutyto be reasonably cautious and careft
of life. ,There's a scriptural injunction -laid,
upon-us togb ,ise as serpents."
"If a paron had said that it couldn't have
beenmore 'tothe'pint. I knw of a very quiet
campin' grou  a few miles farther on,,whereI
posed 'au night somonths, agowhen: the,
heathen  eptileshad somehow got wind of-my
Thmovements  m   n   tihe
The pai l mounted their horses, and the fre

PATE.
where they had anticipated. passing an undis-
turbed night, was soon fare behind. The 'spot
referred to by Buckeye proved a fitting -place
for their purpose, being sheltered by large rocks
and trees, and hemmed in by a crescent-shaped'
bend in the river.
Brion felt at home. The wide sky arching
over him in ,unveiled beauty, with its starry
hosts ; the spreading prairies, the, distant moun-
tains, the running waters and fluttering leaves,
were things that had voices, and addressed him
with pleasant language. The- mountaineer was
entirely satisfied with his mode of life. . He felt
no desire to be other than he was. There was a,
charm (for him) .in the atmosphere of the wil-'
derness ; while the certainty .of danger added
new zest, making him moreis love with his call-
ing. Like Buckeye, he had been a free trapper,
but the strong inducement held out to him by
the American Fur Company had (after consid-
erable hesitation and rather against his inde-
pendent predilections) caused him to accept the
post of " partisan," or leader of the enterprise.
'He knew it was a trying and difficult position,,
but trusted that he should be able by his experi-
encejn trapping and hunting to give satisfaction
to all concerned.
When he resumed his way on the ensuing
morning, the ;glowing stories,.of Buckeye, con-
cerning the pleasures, and excitement of a free
trapper's existence, made him half regret his
engagement. Before noon he overtook the band,
consisting of about .seventy-five men, amply
provided with pack horses and mules._
"I want no sich creturs as them," said Buck-
eye ppinting to the latter-with.a contemptuous
expression. -"-And as-for baggage, a real trap--
per needs nothin' but his gun, huntin' knife and
traps. Them men are slaves to their mules and
packs., :No, no! !Icouldnft think of ,aich a'life,!
-Give me =Flash andthis trusty -weapon, and the
sky for -my roof,;and the -prairie for my floo*,
with nobody:to dictate what I shall or sha'n't.
do, and I ask no more."
With this pithyopitonte;of his ,sentiments,
Buckeye. shputed "Hi I hi !" performed some
difficult {ffats':of hosneanshp,ithen .abating
somewhat of his eques iafttry,-jked the.slow.,
paced brigade unmereifully; contrasting their
encumbered    arch withkbisrown autrammellels
unburdened movemaentsa In   rion's estimation,
there ras toomuch truth in such badinage to
e it altogether agreeable to:.the moderately
moving party. Flash, in returnreeeived criti.-

BEDPATH.

cisms net complimentary to himself or his mas-
ter ; but which were borne by the latter with
perfect equanimity.,
We cannot here make the reader acquainted
with the various individuals of which the band
was composed. There were French and half-
breeds,: a few of Mexican origin, the greater
number being Americans from frontier towns.
There was Also a Texan adventurer, a Kentuck
ian, aVirginian, and a young fellow from Mas-
sachusetts. Many were veteran trappers, while
some were fresh on the prairies, unpractised: in
the arts and expedients of hunter life. . Thus
far on their march all had gone well. The In-
dians had not molested them, and grass being
abundant, the horses and mules were, in good
condition. The young and unschooled in the
kind of existence opening before them, feared
they should reach the distant theatre of opera-
tions without incident 'or excitement, or adven-
tures worth relating when they should again
reach home ; but the wiser heads shrugged their-
shoulders, intimating very plainly that danger
might come before they were ready for it.
They passed Fort Laramie with nothing to
break the monotony of their march. ' Theyjubi-
lant spirits of the younger men began to flag ;
continued travel had already taken- the first
starch of greennesi.out of them. Seeing how
smoothly things were proceeding, they grew less.
vigilant, ridiculed the precautions of Brion,
wishing - for an opportunity to "show the red-
skins what they could do," boasting in no mea-
sured terms of their ability to teach them civili-
ty. buckeye, who continued 'with the band,
heard all this bravado in silence, feeling more
inclined to feed their vanity than to rebuke their
folly.                                *
One morning, one of those who had been
loudest in his threats, and had sneered most at
the nightly cautions of Brien, was missed from
camp.' Believing that he would soon return, no
uneasiness- was .felt on his, account ; lut not
making-his appearance, several 'of his friends
started to look for hint -After A:short search,
his lifeless }body was found 'a few.rods from the,
encampment. It had n6' Wound--no sign of
mortal injury visible to casual 'eyes; yet the-
animating spirit had 'gbnei The thoughtless
braggarts at - first were shocked, supposing their5
comrade had met his ilvath'by violence, but dit.
covering no external' hut, they' changed their
minds, -ahd- conludedhe had died a 'natural
death.

ii

"What do- you' call a natural death ?" asked
Buckeye.
A young Missourian, by the ,name of Head-
ley, replied that he supposed apoplexy might be
thus called.
"If it's apoplexy,'then apoplexy's a eatchin'
disease, and more'n one of yell be down' with it
afore you reach the trapping' grounds," said
Buckeye, mysteriously.
" You are not talking to boys, but 'to men !"
retorted therMissoprian, loftily.
"1m   lad you've"'told me, for I shouldn't
have inistrftsted it," was 'the instant rejoinder.
"It's 'plain enough to a  one i hin senses
that this rnan'died of a disease of the heart or
brain.  What' else could kill him? I -see'no
wounds nor brisses;'or any signs of a struggle ;
and you'll find it hard to crowd your inysteri-
ous nonsense down' our throats in the wa' you
think."
" Sinee you're so wise, it aint worth while to
tell ye anythin' more, because it might. hurt ye.
I've knowed folks to be injured by knowing' too
much. An acquaintance of mind was 'bliged to
take to his bed jest on account of his general
information," answered Buckeye, with quiet
sarcasm.
A grave was dug beneath a spreading poplar,
in which the body was decOntly interred. 'The
earth was smoothed; and a fire 'built over the
spot to prevent the- resting-plate of the mortal
remains' froth being disturbed by the' natives.
Dnriig 'tie'day's niaich'there'was considerable
discusefont relative' to 'the man's deceased  Aut
Brion, Buckeye, and a' few others, studio msly
avoided the topic.  The latter had al666 y-ren-
dered himself unpopular by the'singular'o inion
he had 'advanced relati to thesubjeet.  e had
lost among a certain class who had  eieiosly
been disposed to think highly of his wisdom and
experience, that repute whichie had gainedafor
shrewdiiekamnong them. They, 'dob'T his
mnentalsoundness, regarding hint'as we 'k'and
superstitibe. 'i"Wher before hiis j'in eiee had
been welcome, he was now4e&amp;6 tihit beldness
and riaicale  "Sneel's, overt' 6t6s, and' un.
friehdlgnnerdoepassedfroiinioth to mouth
at his expense.
kcih'deiioistr tidts the sturdy trapper did
not deign to notice. He smoked his-pip salha-
ly, conversed with the veteransiof the brigade,
praised the go6d 'qualities of FIa h, ad'made
eocaito fdi l dc ioitering eiiursi6ds In advance.
Ita    rel    ddAkt byimh io obserbig tfat

f
.
,;
r
+
s
. :

i
k
s
"E
s
t
i
f
a
t
S


e' I

AI Atit.

Brien was more thought0l sad 1teiturni than  The Missourian's cheeks paled,'while the hun-
usual, though they could verynaturally a$4ribute tears and trappers gazedat eac other in silence.
the  tP tp tha ireamatsage.  the recent.death. "His' body lies yonder; he fell at his post.
w he    t ..  p was, chosen with' particuar And perhaps," he continued, looking steadily at
care, and unwonted precautions wero had .in Jeadley, "some of you can tell what he died
seeing. a,    d  The, latter, twp in nuniber, of ?"
wed geeatejn4dnight, wh, ,eadley and       "A disease of the head or heart," muttered
one of:hisfriends took. their places, with in- Buckeye, loud enoughfor Headley to hear.
structions to be vigilant. Te ,Missourian heard  . rion's men.now gathered aboutthe remains
Brigai's orders with manifest imptence, and of the- unfortunate young man, seeking vainly
demanded to know if he, supposed this was his for the wound that sped, him hence. Evidently_
first experience ontheprairies of the West.  he had fallen where he had 'last stood, stricken
" Y     aggehave had some experiencen the mortally, nor had moved A linb thereafter. His-
borde- toss,' sai   the mountaineer, mildly, immortal partihad, been dismissed from his cork
"but youltgv  npt yet grown gray, with the vi- poreal tabernacle without a struggle or painful'
cissitudgs ofaunter' ,life  }qu're i ya region contortion. The face was as calm  as if he
now, where one, hour is no. type of what the slept ; the lips wexe ;closed, as were the eyes,;
n4e4 will be. Things unexpected happen here. expressing no dread or.horror, or consciousness,
Thierigare spventy-four of us, well, and in flght- of suffering; and the: ghastliness of) death was(
ing condition; but in the morning it isn't impos- not written uponany of the features.
sible tt.one may be missed from the number of  When this spectacle first presented, an inter-
his mess-1 have known a band like this to be val of silence followed; which anon gave place
routed andc attered in a single night."    to hurried queries no one-could (or would) an-
, tissquP6an turned his- back upon Brion, swer. .Conjecture became rife, and speculation
andg adegnogreply.                          and hypothesis united to sole the- mystery.
The following ,morning proved cloudy .and Buckeye, Brion, and .other veterans in wood-
dark, therefore "favorable to repose ; a circum- craft stood aloof. Headley, who' made preten-
stasne of which, theweatryeadventurers availled sions to some knowledge of surgery, conducted
thepaselves by sleeping soundly to a later hour the examination of the body, assisted by others
tigan, they; had heen accustomed.  Brion at of his sympathizers. Reluctantly he relinquish-
legh arpued. them, and the, camp was soon ed. the search. Perfect'obscurity covered the
asti; yvih active~ preparations for' cooking. case; a truth he- was loth to admit,,- for he
Hel grwyfp found sleeping near-the fire, and prided himself on his perspicacity.'
bejng awakened, by the. clatter around him, as- " Well, sir, what are your conclusions "" said
seg  ackeyee, wih a sinister smile, that he the partisan, as Headley turned away and passed
ha . ape4s the disease, called apoplexy,; iw a the spot where he wasatanding.
wok     lmeper:: The former glancedquickly   " There is no evidence that he died; of vio-
ovpr4e grosopp f men, replying that :he hoped lence-not the least. It is a puzzling case; but
it g f e las well with his comrade. Some his sudden deceased must be attributed to some
one s  ' ,;  4                 -khereditary           predisposition  to---
Saslh      . Where is he i               Alow laughfrom   huckeye interrup ted the
. Sf   oagugF,'I'll ;arrant," said  easiley.  speaker, and.sent-the blood to his fade in a -man-
BeaJ yoices-alled ; to the-party referred to. per indicative of considerable:excitement.
At tt f   gnt   riprs cameup to thegroup  " Go on,".said the partisan, quietly.
wit   geg.ra'fe       .                     "Not: another word!r" exclaimned Headley.
"   tle gopd will it do tocall him?--4,e41gev- "'Upon' some people .o00u=1  sense is thk-own
er, answer  gmaunpalL sgaim4" hea said in a ;sawy, and sound mason, predicated-on experi-
low, measured tone.                         once,is just so m44h Greek  Superstition and
ve y f"#was fixed on;the partisan'- nan ignorance go together sir "-
init                                          A slight smile curled  rion's 'lips for a me-
7yim      tpe9iagone I' he added,        ment, while  nekeye stroked his long beard and
" GC  '.n  4 4,, a       y , - ,        shrugged his shoulders, according-tohis habit.
SWhenAei        l iug i ny me-to ie'     You decide, if  ander tatd'yoii Mr. Head-
grnaio   f t4ead i" he 9ewred, sadly    ley, that Minten died by some lurking disease,

ws

which came -to a sudden and fatal crisis' last
night ?" resumed the partisan.
TheMissourian ,bedwed stiffly.f
" You do not care to 'be explicit, I see '
" Congestions'of the brdin, perhaps," replied
Heidley, 'ill humoredly.
"Or perhaps some difflkilty about the heart?"
said Buekeye, with affected humility.      .
Headley darted an angrf look at the'offender;
for nothing' upset his mental- equilibrim  so
quickly as doubthig'his knowledge, or ridiculing
his opinions. He wa specialIyiafallible in his
medical wisdotm, his fatheIr having been couri-
try doctor; ith' a largd piae ie. Toward Buck-
eye, within the  laststwei days,;he had begun to'
entertain a positive dislike, which thiateed' t6
go on gathering strength until it became abso-
lute enmity and hatred., The trapper's "matter-
offact assumption' of superior skill' id wood-
craft had in the first place piqued him; then his
obstinate refusal'to bow to his judgment in the
inapprehensible 'cases 'of which, we have been
treating, completed his antipathy. As we haWte
taken care to impress ih upon the courteous read-1
er, the younger and less experienced portion of
the band sympathized *th 'Headley, while only
the veterans ,appeared to 'occupy neutral ground.
Naturally superstitious, soe 'Of -'the 'trappers
were ready tobeliete thWt Heaven frowned on
their enterprise; audwas nianifestig itS disap-
proval by thutisitations of dkath.' Gloom :ani
discouragement settled npon the colilitenatces of'
such, and they resthmed their nard'*ith a sutd
lenness that boded t legoad to don's'schemer.
0H4.P TB    .
THE' UN TOwN  oUTEI AGA n APPEA1ts.
Trfn party moved llo4 1 on,'rion and Buck-
eye remaining behind' With tw men to see the.
body of Minten consigned its kindredhcements.,
and 'all traces of the'ga ie' obiteaied to prevent
its subsequent exhuiii1dti  h avAge hands.
Thesinmple burial was senicompleted. Buck-
eye was';in the 'act of lding the 'fagots that
had 'bedn heaped 'on the pot by" the partisan's
order,'when d iotsenana -ws descied aproach-
ing att a galep. N'is hiied pace brou'h ,in
quickly to the sfde 9ile thehmountaineer"  ohad
observed his advance 'iWfa utriositythat couli
not be disguised. Theiiderwas "$e$linder
youth,*hosougit his' lonelfIiua-fire onithe
banks of th' 'Kaniiar, c, 4
Brion flfdisposed tO study the y ong litrap=

ger close     e noticed thatlis chin was guilt-
less of  beard,,his eyes large, vivacious, and
sparkling,'his face dark, but comely. Although
clad, as has before been stated, in befitting garb,
his appearance was extremely neat, and Brion
thought a trifle foppif. this idea was sustain-
ed somewhat, by the fact that his feet and hands
were smill, the first thcased in close fitting;moc-
casons, ornamented' by Indian skill, the latter
covered with'gloves of soft leather, long enough
to reach above the wrist'a third of the way to
the elbow. Iis small, elegant rifle was fastened
ingeniously to the saddle on the right side, in a
manner to be instantly available when wanted.
A brace of silver-mounted pistols peeped from
holsters at the pommel, while the handle of a
dagger flashed in the sun at his-slight waist.
He sat'-his horse with grace, and therefore with
ease. And here we are brought naturally to
speak of the qualities of the animal that bore the
youthfuliider. He was large acid black as ebony,
so that the mountaineer, and trapper could not
but admire his model proportions. Their atten-
tion was divided between the steed and his mis-
ter, though too proud to confess by outward
manifestation low much they were interested
and puzzled,' or at least not while the eyes of the,
youth were upon them.
Good morning, messieurs," he said, with an
accent not purel'Ainerican,yet clear and distinct.
" Yes, it is afiery good morning, but I should
like it better were it less cloudy," answered the
partisan; with more courtesy than on .a former
occasion.
"I sdepeet we ought to be pleased with every-
thing Providencesend&amp;; not to be so, seems like
finding fault with one with whose dispensations
iv'have noight to meddle," was the immediate
rejoinder.
"I confess, good youth; that your reasoning
has the sayor of-truth. Andy am now'remnaed
that I arW probkblf" under some obligatipp .to
you. I found near mae , on awaking the iext
ndiring ftier your visit, a dead' serpent of a
venprous kind, which was doubtless slain by
you hapd"4dded Bridn.
If thiat triing act confess obligationwhy,
you are ighit.  he creattire, was about todo,
you an injury, and fortunately it was in ny
power to-despatbhi himpefforehe fixed his fangs."
oF r    iic1iservice I iam deeply indebted. [f
my recptiowasnottthat time entirly cordial,,
anminlied wit i distrastI trust to atone for  $e,
same *in opportunity$ali present4"

y
:n
aY
it
11Zi
tttt )
3b
s
s
t yy
i
11
.s
-   tl


1EDPATH.                                                                                 1

y #5
"  R
S *'
i .
"r
+ r
3334
fi
Ss3    '
Jill
i         ,
a
" a
III
1
E      r            -
F, k
F

Brion spoke with some war- a'td bowed
quite low; for the youth, despite his slight fig-
ure and smooth face, had an air that in, some
strange manner commandpd respect.
The stranger's horse at that moment snuffed
the air with affright, trembled, reared and made
a sidelong bound.
" he quiet, Brave, be quiet, I see nothing to
fear," said his master, soothingly.
" We have just buried a comrade here,; it is
the scent of death that terrifies him," said the
partisan.
The young rider colored and backed Brave
from the spot.
" Did your friend find a natural death, or did
he die by Indian hostility?" he inquired.
"Indeed, sir, I will request my more expe-
rienced companion to answer your question,
feeling confident that he will get nearer the
truth."
"It seems to me that the matter is very sim-
ple. Certainly, the answer must be yes or no;
in which case one must be entirely right or abso-
lutely wrong."
"Ordinarily speakin', your idees would be
perfectly to the pint ; but in the particlar in-
stance, you are wide the mark," said Buckeye.
" The cap'n has been pleased to refer to me ;
but my opinion I dare say wouldn't be worthy
much to ye. If it wouldn't be takin' too much
liberty, I'd like to ask if your friends are far
from here; for I take it you aint alone, seem'
you're young and inexperienced, asI.may say ?"
"I hope I have friends not far from me ; it
would make me wretched to believe to the con-
trary," was the evasive reply.
Prudential motives hadaclearly dictated Buck-
eye's query, and the youth appeared to com-
prehend his feelings.
"Being a stranger, you don't think it prudent
to trust me; is it not so ?"'
"Well, I had such a notion, I confess," said.
the trapper.
"And I am too youthful in appearance to in-
vite confidence. Come, be true to yourself !
Have I not traced the workings of'your mind?"
"If you never commit a greater blunder than
that, you'll be a lucky lad," resumed Buckeye,
with a characteristic motion of the shoulders.
"But young heads," he, added, "may be dis-
greet, and a beard isn't allers necessary to make'
one shrewd ; though judgin' by appearances, I
should naterally conclude you aint a veteran in
woodcraft; and your fransis not calculated to

endure the hardships and fatigues of this kind of
life. It isn't my business, may be, yet I'd ad-
vise ye as a friend to keep near your company."
"I'm obliged to you for your good will, and
will endeavor to take care of myself," was the
good-natured reply. " I see you are about to
move on. I will bear you company at least for
a time, to which proposal ,I trustyou will have
no, objections," he added, in the same vein.
Briou felt a strong desire to know his new
friend's name, purpose, and destination; but
notwithstanding his situation was one to make
such interrogatories proper,, he did not approach
the subject withoutigonsiderable embarrassment
that could not have escaped the observing eyes
of the stranger.
"I presume," he began, "that the party to
which you are attached, seek these savage re-
gionsfor the sake of excitement and. novelty.
alone ?    '
" Your judgment is good, my friend."
The partisan, though dissatisfied with the re-
ply, did not give up the pursuit-
"Is your band large, sir ?" he resumed.
"Not very; I will remark, too, that their in-
terest, I think, will not to any considerable ex-
tent conflict with yours. 'Be good enough to
drop your suspicions, and permit me to see
something of that) generous .confidence that I
have heard. distinguishes the roving trapper of
the West',, Had I been your enemy, I should
4ave permitted that ugly serpent to finish his
work. Come, messieurs, tell me what caused
the death of yogr ,emradegwhose grave is on
the prairie, like a sailor's in the sea ?"
These words were spoken with an ingenuous
frankness that for the time passing, dispelled
distrust from the mind of the mountaineer.
Looking at the lad's frank, face, he'could not re-
sist the convictionthat his intentions were friend-
ly, his mind void ofhypcriy.
"Forgive my reserve, good youth," saidthe
partisan, with unaffected earnestness, pausing-
and extending his hand, " The life that Iam at
present follpwing,is one to make me distrustful of
my fellows, and seal up, the warm fountains of
the heart. Know, young sir, that I am, the
leader of'art entefprise that, stirs ug the bitter-
est feings of rivalry in pertain quarters-a ri-
valryful.of all manner of subtlety and hostility.
It has 'not been Iong thus, for you must under?'
stand itha haye, until recently, been n t man's
servant, nor tied tq other interest than my own.
I have been a free trapper, consulting the stars

and my own convictions to govern my course ;
but since I accepted this leadership, I am anoth-
er man. My eyes have to be in all directions.
I am, in truth, a sort of a watch-dog to guard
the property  of others, and like that noble
animal, shall be prized according to my faith-
fulness and the acuteness of my instincts. So
much for my apparent churlishness and reserve
-an explanation I have not before deigned to,
make even to the honest man you see at my
side."
"No more, I beg of you ! I know that you
are the soul of generosity and honor ; otherwise,
the language of the face is false in its utterance."
This -flattering avowal had something more
than the mere wording to commend it to the
partisan; the tones went directly to that spot
where human friendship begins. A sense of
satisfaction accompanied the youth's speech into
Brion's ears, and the last lingering fragment of
contempt said adieu. He straightened his figure
in the saddle, and seemed ten years younger with
his handsome "face, free from lurking doubt, and
his lips smiling through his dark beard. I
" You do me too much credit, I assure you,"
he answered, in a genial voice, which caused
the stripling to regard him with deepening at-
tention. "But we will not dwell upon this mat.
ter longer. Common courtesy touches my el-
bow, reminding me that the civil question pro-
posed by you has not been answered. You wish
to know the cause of our associate's sudden de-
-cease.- Let me inform  you that'I have buried
two of our men' within forty-eight hours, who
bore on their persons novisible signs of violence.'
Various conjecturep are formed in regard to
the subject, the prevailing sentiment being, I
think, that both died of a disease of the heart or
brain. My friend Buckeye will not hesitate,-I
expect, to speak his mind fully and freely, and,
give us both the benefit of his. sousndjudgment
and experience."
The trapper mused, then looked inquiringly
at the partisan, to see how far his expression;
invited or Warranted confidence;, that idividual
nodded to the mate interrogatory, but still.Buek.
eye remained silent with his eyes' cast downward,
to the pommel of his saddle, or fixed uponthe
youth at his side, whose large horse bore him
like a feather, apparently proud of his ;own,
strength.
"If I was to speak the truth like an honest
man, as is beeomisg to me and all others, I4
should, assert confidently that the two men had

r7i  / i

14

15

REDPATH.

foul play. 'atwarehow it'll seem to them that
don't know what I do, and never heard the
name of Redpath."
The youth turned an eager, searching look on
the trapper.
" Stop, my friend," he said, " and allow me
to interrupt you by asking, who is Redpath ?"
"Ask anything you please, sir-ask what
makes the grass grow, or the heart beat, or the
sun shine? Such questions might be' common-
place enough, and under some circumstances no
doubt very proper ; but answering them is anoth-
er affair."'
"You mean to say that Redpath is a myste-
rious personage, whom you know. only by-his
deeds, or what is more probable, by hearsay."
"Hearsay comes very near 'to' it, but don't
quite cover the whole ground. I have seen ef-
fects that were attributed to the one I named, by
those Who had more knowledge of him than I.
Redpath is the enemy of the white man, the sworn
foe of the trapper and hunter. Where are his
haunts, and what does he look like, will be ask-
ed ? He is in the lonely defiles, on the moun-
tains, in the forests, upon the wide prairies.
He is one as gives no warni' of his approach.
He comes and goes with the speed of an eagle
on the wing; makes a swoop, strikes the pale-
face with the shaft of death, and is away. He
can't be trailed, he can't be follered, he can't be
brought within the range of the double sights.
He fiads a band like the cap'n's; he dogs it, he
hangs upon it in the front, in the rear; yet nobody
knows where he is, or what brings death upon
'em, or what power directs the hidden bolt.
Where did I hear all this? you'll next want to
know. By the dim watch-fires of the wandering
hunter, in the- camp of the trapper, from the
mouths of old voyagers, from the lips of fearless
adventurers,, daring mountaineers, and in the
wigwams offriendly Indians.'"
The cheeks of the unknown youth grew pale,
and the partisan's brow wore a sombre expres-
sion during Buckeye's;singular recital. .He first
observed them both attentively, as if' to satisfy
himself-of the' sincerity of one, and to learn how
much o'thetineredible tale' was credited by the
other who had the-prestige of a strong mind
above the vagaries of superstition.
"What, is,our 'opinion of all this ?"° the
stranger asked addressing Brion.
The, latter colored' and appeared- disposed to
evade thenoe qtestion, afraid either of being
accused'of'weaknees, or shrinking, from speaking.


Ar
f'
t
~It
i  f

17

his honest convictions. His. eafldon did not
pass unnoticed.
" I am ready to confess that I have often heard-
the nanie of Redpath up in the mountain yonder.
The trappers wesgwont to talk of him -inlow
tones over their night-fires and buaalohuimps.
He is'supposed to be a bold and cunning sav
age of great personal strength, who spends his
life in avenging some real or fancied wrong.
That his doings -are exaggerated, is very probe.
able, and yet the being called Redpath'is dan-
gerous. You may consider 'him fabulons; you
may even smile tt my seriousness, and pity my
credulity."
"And so) you conclude Redpath slew your
men ?"
There was, satrifle of irony in the stranger's
tones that did not escape Brion's notice.
" I have:notyet admitted that, I believe'."
"sIt was I who affirmed it," said Buckeye.
" One admission which you made you have
evidently forgotten; you stated clearly that'
there were no marks of violence an the bodies ?"'
Buckeye was; embarrassed by the cross ques-
tioning of his new acquaintance; to gain time as
well as to hide 'his momentary confusion, he
helped himself to agenerous quid of tobacco.
Like most men, he was afraid of ridicule, and
that, in fact, was about-the only thing he feared
in the world.
" I know it has a curis look at firSt, but a fact'
is a fact, and nothin' can change it' You see he
has the knack of doi' it in austrainge. way."
" I should think so."
"I reckon it' wont make no great difference
what you think 1" retorted Buckeye, frowning.
. "Not the slightest'; but it is a very myste-
rions tale you hate been telling, and you must
pardon a littlenatural doubt on my part. If'you
scowl-thus, I shall leave-you.'"
The trapper said" to himself; "It wont-be 'a'
great loss."
"A story-after making theclreit-ofthe TRocky;
Mountainsfmust' neeesra ily bell growkrwhen
it gets here?',the tnknowna dded. 5
"AndIdare :say yondll get tbe Win  wheni
you have gone half that"distanee!M  B ckeye
rejoined,with spice of;sarcasni;l :_}
It was now the' youth's turto ebw cac fdsetI;
hereddened toihe eyejbr s, whfiec'thetrapfper
congratulated himself on ,hiekyihit:
"Be steiaIfBrave;"'saiditheyouths; 'anred-
monitidn sedtniigly'quise slesagasars wa
at thaeiastanttas dheileas-he couldspo sibly'be:

" To be killed," suddenly resumed the young
man, rallying, " one must inevitably receive in-
juries of some kind-either wounds-or bruises-
something to leave tangible marks upon the pei-
son. Tell me, noW, is there not some reason in
'this logic?"
0' 0 too much," replied Buckeye, sullenly.
Pardon, sir," continued' the other, addressing
Brion, "you have interested me very much in
this Wonderful relation. Really, do-you believe
in this savage vampire-this Gian Ben Gian of
the prairies 1'
"'No, more than what I am constrained to.
We may injure ourselves as much' by believing
too-little as -in believing too much. Danger
that is apprehended is in a measure guarded
against. Though young in years, your intelli-
gent' face assures me that you understand the
force of my last remark."
"Do you fear this inexplicable enemy of the
pale faces "
Whatever' fault this question might have, -it
did not' lack explicitness. The hot blood flew
to Brion's face in an instant, and he-turned a
proud, rebuking face upon the questioner.
" Your extreme youthfulness," he said, with
dignified severity, "induces me to overlook the-.
the-impertinence of your question."-
"I have offended."
"And I have forgiven:"  '
" Thanks !"
" Speak no more of it. I shall be cautious'
but not cowardly. 'Ihate cowardice--it is a spe-
cies of meanhess- indicative of a pitiful spirit..
This worthy trapper has' spoken of Redpath-a
personage either real or' imaginary -Md he has
expressed his opinion freely. Not so have I..
If such an 'one' exists,'it-is my fixed pu-pose to
knot"more ofdin-to iin'ask'himy-todiscover
'if he really pirsueswhite menwith the malignity,
aid seereey:With which'o'the tongue of mountain
rumor has charged him. I   n that I have my'
doubts, and"Certain Circumstaneea stagger and
;erplet die. My caihp-in' future shall beon the
alert; a prairie dog shall not be able to pass 'it
'unseen.On'neiies shall know'what' it is to
oawita veteratumountaiieer9"s'
Baekeye glanced 'atthe partisan "with an air'
of pride avdsati sfetioi; it? pleased him tore--
fieet 'that'sueh, a'brave,'W6lHispoken man was a'
;brother trapper. He cried, " Hi, hi !" to Flash,'
causing btditd thoet ahead of' his eompanios
like at-arrWe. Bravel"liai his daeatbek, off dat'
ed that another animal shouldhave the audacity

REDPPH.

to pass him. Buckeye's exhilaration soon ex-
pended itself, and he allowed Brion to come up
with him.
"Your horse has excellent qualities, I'm
sure," the young man remarked, as tsqkeyere-
sumed his former place.
"He hasn't no equal between this and the
Pacific, I reckon-no superior,- sartin.!"
"Sagacious and intelligent; without doubt.
You call him Flash on account, of his speed,
perhaps ?"
"Jest for that reason, Mister, and no other.
He isn't so fat and sleek as some hoss-flesh I've
seen, but when there's need,I know pretty near
where to find him. Flash has a few tricks too,
that I've learned him, :e'enamost human."
Brion glanced at 'the stranger youth at that
moment, and perceived that he waslooking at
the hatchet that he 'had taken from the tree in
the manner described, .and which he had .carried
ever since at his side or his saddle-bow. Seeing
that the partisan had detected the directionof his
eyes, he appeared disconcerted, and ,instantly
turned his attention another way. The moun-
taineer was sagacious and quick to observe, and
the circumstance, slight as it was, did not pass
unnoted. A .train of novel ideas began there-
upon to whirl through his brain; he seemed
trying to work out some kind of.a problem with.
out being able to find the proper data from which
to start. Buckeye contrived to touch him on the
arm,giving him a warning look that said, " Cap'n,
I'm very suspicious of this little feller"
But a change held, eme over the partisan-the
signs of the trapper were upheeded; he rode on
singularly taciturn and reflective.
"Look, comrade, there's a- horseman away
yonder, and he's making signals 1" exclaimed
Buckeye, pointing toward the muntains.
"I thank youfor your company,.brave knights
of the rifle and.trap. v4dieu, messieurs, adieu !"
With a neigh of joy, Brave recognized the
signal to go, and sprang away with a force that
made the ground tremble.
"A  spy," cried the. trapper, Yehemently.
" Say but the word, c ap'n, and I'Al loller and
bring the young scamp back"-
"Do no such thing,"said lrion, earnedtly.
t'And what ,en propose-i s impracticable.. See
how pe rides,! Ah, nly friend, you might -as,
well chase the wind !" Buckeye gazed after the
black horse and hisgider with beth vexatios aid
admiration-vexed he hardly knewfgr what; and
admiring because of :the. swiftness of the steed.

He shook his wise head dubiously, wonderingg
how sueh .a silken sort of lad got so ;far from
home; and phae ewas good for. -small bands
and feet, Gslight frame, neatly fitting gar mente,
a   ontt and comely face, ,were ;ireeppci bi
with hip notions )f woodcraft.
" I.hve, asecret," he said, At length.
"Well ?"
4  ]t is worth kpowin'/'
" I hold like to hear it T"
" But qo4ay I _yopt tell you.  Do you know
it isn't a cky day to tell a secret? You,don't,
of course. I see it by your.expression."
"Yon excite my curiosity, much.   When
shall I have your ,confidence I"
"To.morrow, like egoggh ; we shall see. Iut
here is the rerofyourlazy fellows, ad the:very
first man of them cis that conceited coxcgmb,
Ifeadley !  ,en't tolerate him, so I'll pa!s you:;
but I'll stroll into your camp ;before the moon i'
up to-night."
The trapper urged  Ash to a gallop, and
bounded along the almost interminable reach of
pr ide. His.stout figure was soon but a mere
speck betweerf the plain an4 the horizon, still
growing less and less to the eyes .that followed
CHAPTER IIL
IN WHICH BELL5AR AND MARIOT APPS4R.
wr is needful that we make a retrograde move.
memlt, that the next advance in the line of march
of our story may be luore orderly and intelligi-
ble to those so;obliging as to.-follow us in our
ruvings isthp distant West.
Apbrose Sellar and - Pierre Mariot were
residents-of Westport, and :partners in the for
trade,  nually sending forth , brigade of trap-
pers. . The first wasa elderly man; the father
ofa daughter who had attained to seventeen
years, as well as Ito. a gree of beauty exceed.
ingly rare,.cyeIn the pages of romance. 'Pierre
Mariot was the son of Jules Meript, Monsieur
Slimar'! late partner, decessed, The young
man had beer addaitted ,o the  pss of "ell'
mar &amp; Marit," p rgy Qp jt9  *ff the friend,
ship that Rella  had intertaiuepdfor his father,
and parly: because hd.i4 aet wish the water's
funds withdrawn from the.enterprise at a time
when there was a agvy pressure in the money-
market.- .  le Bft ar h ;ight have had other
scheine ;i his mind, Qf which we may presently
speah.

10

7
f

IntM-ATHY.

16 as s JLJL.


i
Als
ii
'S"

Pierre entered keenly into the rivalry of the
trade, with fewer conscientious scruples than his
predecessor. To the senior partner's credit be it
written, that he had more of that which men
terni principlee' than the junior ; b t' Mr. Bell-
mar or Monsieur Bellmar-forhe was a French-
man-was avaricious, possessed of a restless,
insatiate spirit of gain, which led him on step
by step, encouraged by Pierre, to many acts that
he feared would -trouble him on his death-bed.
The new fur company had injured his business;
there had been a perceptible decline in his income
since its organization. -Such a state of things
alarmed his cupidity, stimulating him to devise
means to checkmate his competitors, and-turn
the stream of gold once more into his coffers.
Strategy he had always encouraged and reward-
ed, when successful among his employees ; but
since the new association had secured the ser-
'vices of Ben Brion as leader of the trapping op-
erations, he was aware that ordinary art would
fall; , therefore something out' of the common
order must be done, or the tradewould' languish,
and he perhaps be driven, ultimately, rentirely-
from the field that he had occupied so long, and
gleaned his wealth from. Pierre Mariot, who
had also heard the note of warning which this
arrangement had sounded, gave evidence-that he
would set himself at work in earnest.
Mignon-Bellmar's daughter-was one day in
the library, amusing herself, as she was wont,
with her good companions, the books.  She
heard her father approaching, accompanied by
Mariot, whose, voice always admonished her of
his proximity.- There was a'small apartment
beyond, and into that Mignon went,-closing the
door. By the time she was seated, ready to re-
sume her reading, "Billtnar and Pierre reached
the library.  Mademoiselle   Mignon' observed
that something, very unusual took place, viz.,.
Mariot shut the door and locked it, after which
she heard him draw adlhair'near 'the writing-
desk'where her father invariably 'sat. - Mignon
did not like her position. "She was forced to be
a listener, provided they conversed in their nat-
ural- tones, ther1'being no mode;of egress- save
through the apartuient taken possession' of.
" You are a*are,b-Monsieur Bellmar, that this
confounded *ifsr company that haS 'given" us so
much uneasiness; has engaged Ben Brion for
its leader1 ? Brion, you will remember,' is: the
man whose services we tried to secure ?"'
" Yes, the disagreeable news has reached me.
I perceive that our business will sustain a se=
verer check than ever, Monsieur Mariot."

"Can you doubt it? Something must be
done," said Pierre.
"Mg foi!1 we have not ceased to do something
ever since these unlucky rival companies existed.
What new expedient remains?"'
"That is a point to be settled by us, and with-
out delay."'.
"Ah, my friend, common strategy will not do
with Ben Brion."
"Who knows that better than I ? ' It is for
that very reason that we must take measures
bold and energetic."
M. Bellmar mused.
" We are quite alone, I suppose ?" Mariot
added.
Mignon,'who sat directly opposite the keyhole
of the door, was now listening with eager inter-
est, and without' a single feeling of compunction.-
"Entirely alone," replied Bellmar.
"We must ruin the American Fur Compa-
ny !" with emphasis on the word "ruin."
" Be good enough to tell me howl? my strate-
gical resources are exhausted."
"We  must break up and disorganize the party
under Brion."
" You are just as far from the question, Mon-
sieur Mariot.' You do not inform me how this
is to be accomplished."
"By means that may perchance startle you.",
Mignon shuddered, knowing that something
terrible was in Mariot's mind ; she knew by the
tones of his voice.
"We must keep the penalties of the law in
view,' quoth Bellmar, wriggling in his chair.
"Law   does not' reach 'beyond Fort Leaven-
worth. We will employ ilustruments that laugh
at the word law."
"Indians i"
Mignon made a slight movement.
"What' was'that ?" asked Pierre.
" Nothing ; go on; you would, you say, em-
ploy savages-at least, you mean so to be un-
derstood?"
"Yes; our enemies-they who take from me
my business, are my' enemies-must be awed,
shocked, stunned, scattered, the survivors driven
from the trapping groundslike trembling sheep.'
Mariot pronounced these words with startling
energy, stamping angrily upon the floor.
"There is much evil in-that man;" thought
Mignon;'
"Proceed," said the senior.
" I have'told yott all."
"Foudre I" exclaimed Bellmar, impatiently.
" You have told me nothing 1"

"Leave the ways and means to me, and you
will have naught to regret."
Monsieur Bellnar rose and paced the floor.
"I shrink from acts"of hostility," he added."
"I shrink from losing my invested' capital l"
retorted Mariot, 'in a hard, dry tone'in which self
was uppermost.
"Such things lay heavy on 'one's conscience
as one grows old, Pierre," retorted Bellmar, in
deprecating way:
" It would grieve me to be obliged to with-
draw my capital, and dissolve the old and re-
spectable house of Bellitar &amp;'Mariot."
" It would be a sad blow to a man'of my years,
wanting as I do, your youthfulness and energy."
" Will you abandon this to me ?"
"Nous verrons f"
" Delay will baffie my purpose ; accede at
once."
" You will send agents ?"
" Doubtless."
"Perhaps go yourself?"
"It is possible."
"And it will cost ?"
"A thousand dollars."
"So much '?"
" The benefits will be tenfold. 'That company
annihilated, we go on again as in old times, when
my father lived."
" What do yous propose in relation to Brion ?"
"Pardon, monsieur, but I will not worry you
with details. You consent "              .
" You will be ,careful of'human life ? Blood
on your conscience will prove a 'burden."
"Do not be uneasy. I will'play my hand
skilfully; but remember that I do iot promise
to do mischief!"
" Well, Mariot, -be discreet and spend money
to advantage. By the way, I have received a
letter from our Indian agent, Fournier, which I
will show you. It is in my pocket--no, it is in,
a coat that I took off yesterday. I will gofor it."
"4Bellmar is getting into his dotage; he is
too weak, too weak I''-muttered Mariot, the mo-
ment the senior left the room. " He'wishes for
a plan of the campaign, but fain not sb stupid
as to show my order'of Battle; it would strike
him dumb, hidiserves are so shattered."
"Ah," said Mignon, to herself," " you do not
know who heardPthat-rem*;rL"
" Once in receipt of nifyplah, he would soon
betray all to Migndoi. Mignon is timid, and her
conscience is as sensitive o evil as 'mercury to
the changes'oftepetattiie '

"Astute Pierre Mariot!" thought Mademoi-
selle Belmar.
The senior returned with the letter, which
treated in the main, of affairs of no interest to
the reader ; in it, however, occurred this curious
passage. *The trappers and hunters, who are
daily arriving at the'trading-house, have much
to say about that mysterious personage whom I
referred to in a former letter. He' is supposed,
by many, to be a celebrated Blackfoot chief
that bears mortal enmity to all whose faces are
white. Would it not be lucky if he should
cross the trail of the new company, and give
them a taste of his quality ? I am endeavoring
to cultivate friendly relations with the Blaek-
feet, with a fair prospect of success. I think it
would be well to send out a fresh stock of In-
dian finery by your next brigade, such as glass
beads, ribbons, pipes. Also a lot of hunting-
knives and cheap guns. But do not be too san-
guine about the Blackfeet; they are a wily,
cruel, intractable race in every particular, differ-
ing from their neighbors, the Nez Perces, who
are a harmless, honest people, on ghom we can
rely in all pertaining to legitimate trade, but who
cannot easily be, induced to act against other
companies - in turning' the tide of traffic to our
interest."
" Do you know much of this redoubtable na-
tive to which Fournier alludes ?" Mariot inquir-
ed, with an earnestness that he regretted a mo-
ment after.
"'By common camp gossip, only ;"a species
of information not very reliable, friend Pierre,"
was theresponse.
"Is henot a being purely of the imagination,
think you-a sort of bugbear created by some va-
grant adventurer, to put tongues in motion that
had been too long silent'to be particular I"
' It may be thus, but it is scarcely probable.
Mountaineers are shrewd, and the American
free trapper has sense, and 'always understands
what he's about."
"Do the Americans alsO' talk of Redpath ?"
"Yes, mon ami.' I aon'ersed with one -Buck-
eye, a genuine type of the free trapper class, that
has a frm belief in such a personage."
" Well,"there is nothing marvellous in the
fact that an' Indian chief should be revengeful,
spurred on as he may be by a burning sense of
wrong.         wih           l
it is not that whieh excites alarm;it is the
matini 'of his vengeance, theterrible mystery
that hangs over his movement, his wondrous

SEDPATH.

l18

RED#AITH.

19,


4'
S f
1'
iIj
IL
}tii

silence and .secrecy, his astopishing ,power of
eluding pursuit, his fearful perseverAnge."
"You speak earnestly,.Mogsieur Bellnr."
" Not earnestly, but tosthe point."'
And then the seniorgdded:
"Our rivals ire making r pg efforts to fill
up their brigade  Thgy  soon he ready for
the western trail." .
"[ must be three weeks in advance of them;
that is, my agent must.  wil dog them with
such influences-"
" Go Qn, sr."
"As-as shall greatly surprise them," he rp-'
pumed, in a voice much modified, and with A
smile.
"This is a quiet place to make confidential ar-
rangements," he continued, looking about him
with a satisfied air. " I may wish to be closeted
here at this hour to-morrow, ta, confer with some
good friends of ours.. And now I think I am
commissioned to look after our owu,mutual:in-
terests. It is getting later-I iu t meet an ap-
pointment."                           .h.l
The parties arose and left the library, while
Mignon remained in her chair, like one very
much startled and confounded. She bad satis-
lied herself long before that Pierre lariot was a
man of a low standard of morality, but she was
not prepared to believe him so much , villain
as he had proved himsplf. He was meditating
crime--schening the ruin of others-planning
deeds of blood--drawing her father into the vor--
tex of his evil mind.   Ah, Mariot, your last vir-
tue and your last chance faded from the heprt of
Mignon that morning. She scorned, she despis-
ed you, when you left the house, full of dark de-
vices for the overthrow of your brother man !
)Iignon went to the window, the, only one.in
the room, and which fronted the street, The
sash was, raised a little. Mariot and her father
had reached the ;khallogor, and the former was
upon the steps when she heard him remark :
" Here comes Brion 1"
Mademoiselle  ellngr gt; er eyes 4own the
street, and saw a mnpu ,onhorseback, -'He was
mounted o  a stot bay animal that carried
himself proudly, like a trained horse o .parade.
e presentation W4i sIking, ealcgated to im-
prss one with the majesty of the human figure,
the noble strength aid piri~t.of the horse, and
the dignity of both when gracefully united.
" How noble !" exclaimed Mignon, enthusi-
astically, then flushing et her war phesbp drew
peck.

Orion sat firmly andrerect, his stalwort pro-
portions seeming, a portion fhis g~oris steed,
his ljeft hand grsping thypg  Ids right at rest,
by1a4ssde, his 4ace a-glow, his. boldeyes full of
aningation.
"A fine picture. 0, Pierre. Iarint, if you coul4
only look like that," soliloquized Mignon. " But
that s irnpossijeis; ,onlyApoble nature can look
neblp."    ,'        ,4
"He reminds one of the gallant cavaliers of
the old school," she heard her father say. Brion
was now oppositethe .house; he raised his eyes
to the window.and spy lIigron., She was charm-
ing, and the gaze he thusunwillingly surprised,
thrilled hin, and made himblbush ike.,a school-
girl convicted of e misdemeanorr.  Familiarity
with Nature in her simplest and yet grandest
form of development had not huntedd Brion's
susceptibility to those delightful emotions which
the presence of a lovely womaninspires. For a
second, an appreciative space of time to the-soul
-the mountaineer was dazzled and at a loss ;
then he recovered his self-possession, and bowed
like a knight templar.
Mignon ran from   the window, in a strange
flutter of excitement, and the sound.of clatter-
ing hoofs follpwed-her to her chamber.,
0 Mignon ! lost and won, in  single day!
Three individuals answering, to ,the appella-
tives of Grenier, Kinesid and  ardette; were
segfed upon a bench not far fro  the establish-
ment.of Belmar $ Mariot. The first was a, Ger-
man, the, second a Frenchman, the third, a half-
breed. Grenier -was despairing, Kincaid.angry,
Gardette saulen, and all were hungry. They
belonged to the lazier, less efficient and most un-
scrupulous of the mountsinegrs. Their pypsent
possessions were:meagre,:-having nothing, about
them but bad reputations, which they had richly
earned, and were in a fair way to keep. They
ha4 offered their services to varigns furcompas-
nies without success, theireharacters for good-
for-nothings being pryextensively known and
appreciated.      ,
h he.three unworthies bad been seen about
Westpor, more or less drunkenforthe last three
weeks, during winei tinyethey h lcreatedA feel'
ing ofuniversalfisie,otufre"gently insulting
the wives and daug tere of ;respetable citizens
beside cwm tting,;veros ;thsas to gain the
means, probably,,  deipntinugig their debauch.
Their resopsresa well e the patience of the
inhabitants, were at exgth exhastp4; theywere

warned to leave the place within four-and-twen-
ty hours, under the dire penalty of a coat of tar
and feathers-a garment dreaded alike by every
class of the genus homo.- The=short period -of
grace allowed them would expire in the morning;
but there were serious obstacles in the way of-
their departure. Let it be understood that they
had no horses, no- arms, nor anything like a
proper outfit for the mountains.  They could
have dispensed with the first, had they been pro-
videdwith the second;, but guns and ammunition
were essential necessities, without which they
would starve upon the trail. They realized the
dilemma into which they had. fallen, and were
combining their remaining wits to surmount the
difficulties that beset them. Various projects had
been discussed, but all in turn rejected, either as
impracticable, or unadapted to the emergency;
hence their gloomy visages.
" Monsieur Mariot cmes this way," said Kin-
caid, whose anger-inflamed eyes chanced to be
turned to the storehouse of Bellmar &amp; Mariot.
" Let him come," retorted Grenier, in a mel-
ancholy tone.
" Let us hold a knife to his throat till he hire
us," proposed the former.'
"That's a fool's adviceI" affirmed:Grenier.
"You're alwayasgrumbling !" quoth Kincaid.,
"Let us go to the Indians !" said Gardette.
"And have our scalps taken off," added Kin-
caid, spitefully.
" Be still. Mariot has something to say to us.,
I know by the way he looks and walks," said
Grenier.    ,
Pierre Mariot approached the trio with a mien
so guarded that it was impossible for the parties,
to divine whether his coming boded'good or evil.
4' Well, messieurs, when do you start for the
mountains ?" he asked.
Grenierheld his tongue; the-half-breed turn-
ed his back to the questioner, and Kincaid said,
in a defiant voice:  '
"-When we get ready, moneleur !"
"Ah, I seef you're waiting for an outfit," re-
turned Mariot, in a tone- that at once reraide&amp;
Kincaid of the tar and feathers in reserve; he
clenched his fist, and' scowled ominously.
" You'd do-well to keep your Jests at home I"
he gruffly retorted.
"Youateinexeerablete1tes, ny good fellow.
What will you:wagerthat I shall not -make you
re m amiable;before.Lleave you 1' , .,
"You'd better go about your, business" said
Kincaidperversely.
2

"Be reasonable, and don't destroy the only
chance left you; it lays between starvaton and
feathers, as it is now; but I can set you right
again, if I will."
" We tried you, and you -refused us-hiring
green hands in preference ; that is"why I advise
you to leave us."
"But if I have changed my mind ?"
" Why then, speak out, and we'll hear you."
"You are acquainted with the country ?"
"I know every yard- of it from here to Co-
lumbia River.' I have starved in the Wind
Riverrange, feasted at the Yellow Stone; frozen
on the Salmon Mountain, and thawed at Walla-
Walla. So have' my comrades," asserted the
Frenchman, confidently.'
"Are you on friendly footing with many of the
Indian tribes ?"
"With nearly all of them."
"And can speak their language, I suppose?"
"As well as my mother tongue."
"I want men who combine shrewdness, ener-
gy and courage, with other qualities."
"We have all the qualities you want, mon-
sieur," said 'Kincaid, modestly.
"I wish you to act as my agents. I shallpay
you liberally, providing you enter into my ser-
vice with zeal."
"Agents, Monsieur   Marlot!"  exclaimed
Grenier.  -
"Agents in reality, if not openly. You know
there are rival ban4s inthe field ?"
":I get a little light, monsieur,"
"I shall supply ; you with horses and allthat
you need, This is no place to give you instruc-
tions, neither is our office; therefore you will
meet me at Bellmar's, where, we can talk confi-
dently, for you must know this is a matter of
great importece and secrecy."
"We'll be.there, but our engagementic wont
'admit of-much delay; monsieur," said Kincaid,
with a knowing leer.
" I am aware of it,' )Mariot answered, with a
smile "An&amp; now promise me that if l pay you
a few dollars in advance, you willnot go and get
so drank that you will -notbe ableto.comprehend
what you will berequired to do."
"O.s)e as if that were possible !". cried ,Gr-
nier innocently, casting  die same juoment 'a
meaning glance at his sssociates. ;
" You are'trasty as steel itself I've no doubt;
so here iswhatwillpatdifferest aesenyou."
I' Thathas ,the complexion of silver,,I really
believe !" saidKineaid,

REDPATHP

21

REDPA.  T~ .;


I it
rI
ti
Ay7

Mariot having said all tbat he deemed of and
cqe seee, left.the  nataineers to: reflect ,o
tie, happy turn of circuratinceis.
" You may be sure something wicked: is to be
doesaid the. Fwechman, the moment Pierr
wa outi qfhearing.
" Cunning and bad," quoth Gardette
"Our conaciences-are tender," Kincaid added
with mom isanctimoglousness.
"And obliging to a weakness,",said Grenier.
' hereforeshould be strengthened by internal
appatip. Come; mountaineers, remember
we are te conduct civilly and morally,, and-not
make brutes ourselves. Only think thatMaiot
could for aniustaatipoagine weshould get drukl
Foudrel were ever men so wrongedV" cried Ki-i.
caid, in better temper.
CHAPTER IV:.
MARIO' MEETe WITH PIPA   OINTMnNT.
In was nearly' dark. Mignon awas returning
home from a long walk. She had chosen an
unfaeq tented path that she mightreflect without
interruption, having much to think of'seriously.
Sha found herself placed in an awkward posi-
tion in:regard to Pierre Mariott and it was of
'that she was meditating. Voices and boisterous
laughter reached her ears, assuring her that per-
sons were near ; indeed, two men were already
in sight, and presently a third ,joined them.
Mignon would gladly have evaded them had it
been possible; but that-was outtof the question,
therebeing no other road andtheyclose at hand-
She went forward unhesitatingly with what res-
olutibnashe could command, noteven raising her
eyes to the faces of the illmannered trio, one of
whom placed himself so- as to abstract the-way.
Rude jests assailed Mignon ; she was alarmed,
"If {the, people -.f'the town threaten usy'to
repay them we will insaltstkeir-daughters," said
one, staggering toward Mademoiselle Bellinar.
" is nO more than just," cried second.
"Iuthe she it' pale-she will tint"" added
the third sneeringly.
M4hew defieto you are, miss. And what
pretty goods you wear! Dear -re, not =so fast
now' ;you will d'rivse ue of yourempany tioo
soon' etnmed-he, rho hadfirst spoken, in the
slow, thick utterance ofa -drunke an.
'd$)you are a giea} deal better thantpoor fel-
lows like us. But it sl 'auas  a are who'
make your 'townsmen ian drue=yet for it
only threats and bad words:'

y    Mignon recoiled with a cry of terror, for one
a of the villains had the insolence. to grasp her
arm, employing 'language -that made her cheeks
e redden with shome and indignation. She had
e the presence of mind to cry for assistance';- and
it came promptly and resolutely. A mani-hose
eyes seemed to emit lightning, scattered the in-
sulters and supported Mignon.  His presence
was a Gibraltar of strength to Mignon-there
Was such noble determination in his face, such
I manliness in. his shapely figure. She recognized
the horseman who had ridden so gallantly,-Ben
Brion, the mountaineer,' whose name had been
mentioned by Mariot.
Mademoiselle was'so pretty, so engaging in
her deportment, so graceful and warm in the
expression of her gratitude, that the partisan
sighed when he left her, regretting that his.-call-
ing would so soon take him, from Westport,
from the vicinage of the only woman who had
ever quickened the pulsations of his honest
heart.
Pierre Mariot had a long conversation with
Grenier, Kincaid and Gardette, at the time ap-
pointed. Miss Bellmar was as punctual as he,
believing it not an act of meanness to hear the
development of a'efarious scheme for the injury
of those pursuing a lawful- aid honorable busi-
ness.
It would not be edifying to the reader to state
all that was said in detail; a few of the most
important points will be touched upon.
"I think you told me, messieurs mountain'
eers," said. Pierre, graciously, "that your en-
gagensent woul4 fcnpel you to leave Westport
at an early hoursO-das'"
".Wei have but ,a  hour's grace, monsieur,-
-and then the canaille of this accursed place will
be upon' us," replied Kincaid, who acted as
spokesman forl histomudes.
"Not the canaille alone, worthy hunter, for
the more respectable townsmen are much exas-
{erated4atyo0e free ac&amp; easy manners. I fear
yo; hae acted scaalously, but that is no
business-of -mins; it deranges my plans a little,
but I can get. along.Now. wewill to the mat-
ter ih ad. I hope yu ae .sober enoughu to
comprehendd ?"
Marlot assumed;.4diffetet-tone and bearing;
hp, spoke- firmly, determinedly and rapidly,
keeping his keeillypenetrating eyesaied steadi.
ly upon his listeners.
" I want men that can act disereely-not those

who eal only get drunk and act the blaggart
and bailer. If r employ you and pay you,
you must do my bidding to the letter, add with-'
out useless questioning. I know that you are
not scrupulous. Keep silent; if you were honest
men, you would not do for r"e ; aid if you flat-
ter yohlsevet that you are such, you have only
to walk out of the house; for in that case our
neg~tlatiohs' will stop at once. Iwaht'subtle"-
" 0 monsieur, I trust you Were not going to
say knave I'* interrupted Kiucaid.,
"Three subtle fellows, willing . to eain their'
money according to the wishes of their employ-
er. IoW hear'my plan. You afe to start this
very day, for I wish you to be Some Weeks in ad-
vance of the band about to be sent out by the
American Pur Company, oft*hich Brion is cap-
tain. Your business will be to vex, annoy, mis-
lead, deceive, undermine, injure, and if'ptissilile
annihilate the rival enterprise. fou are to op-
erate -upon the Indians by truth or falsehood-
just Which Will best serve your  utpose, and by
presents. You will sour the minds of those dis-
posed to be friendly, and excite to a greater de-
gree the enmity of those already hostile to White
men. ' With all your knowledge of Saages;
you will have no trouble in effecting-this. Are
you understanding me, mhessieurs ?"
- The parties signified that they were.
"In your rovings over the mountains, you
have doubtless heard the name of Redpath.
Come, tell me the truth-is there or is there
not such a being?"
The sun-browned face of . Eincaid grew a
shade whiter; he took his own time to reply,
speaking slowly, and with less assurance.
Redpath is as real as you or I, or Gardette,
or Grenier, or anybody thatlives."
There, you are serious, now. Andp mfois,
your lips are Palo. I see that you are not above
the weakness of superstition. Are the deeds of
this-red scarecrow dark and terrible4I"
"To those whom he devotesetohis-vongeanee,
yes. But we never talk much- of him when tie
other ,sideof the south Pass; at-leaEt, myself
and companions4on't -; he is apt to be nar'when
talked, of_ We breathe- his, name in ' whispe r
on the trapping grounds, especally at night
whew our lireeasrelighted/'
"It durtrg  tin  ight tliefe o  thst he
strikethr vietis t"
"At-alltiher and se son , mo sie"
"And is it true," continued' Marlo,-siklng'

DFATR.

A1!T.                                   28
his voice, "that he kills iixouti leaving'the sign
of violence on the body'
" So it is rmtrnored, but I have hedrd that'it is
not always the case. Ont why do you question
me W"
"If you are qcklek at catching an idea, ybun
have already srmised: If there is such a cha-
acter as Redpath, 1 wish to unloose hit like'
fierce bloodhound on the traii of Brioa's band".
"Ah, monsieur, who will r1kt his sealjith jtlt
him on the scent ?' exclaimed Grenier, with a
shudder.
"He is said to be a Blackfoot I"'
"Yes," responded Kincaid.
"Add the Blackfeet-."
"Are the pests" and terror of the tappers,"
the former added.
"But Gardette," said Grenlor, and then stop-
ped, looking inquiringly at the half-breed.
" Gardette," repeated1idirre.
" Has lived with tidni ahd s jeaks the Blanlk-
foot language," added Kincaid.
de Thea he can unchain the hound !' resumed
Mariot, calmly.
"Bait that you know, *otld result in lots cf
life, dioisisar:
" What doyou think, my good fellow  ?  Mia-
riot inquired, urng'to"GMette.
"I prefer to have as little to do with Red=
path as possible."
Pierre Marloi slipped sotue money into the
half-breed's hand, saying:
" But you will see'ifthe thing ean be done?"
Gardette nddead.
"Let it be sdo inddrktdod; and if yd tre
successful, you shall aeeie-"
the rest of thecdthintlicdtlofn hsiisp dM,'
acid Mignod dlidot hektit.
"We ntustbedwo#,"s ift (rele "
"tio to Fort fLeavettnvrth, Said . y  li ho
and outfit shall be sent  after ybu  1willg
niyselftb givd you farther instrhetions. Do ydtlt
reSpetIvely agi-ee t6 carry eoit the  il fi
wishes ?"
"we 1a; ie'wilIdd our best, or rather ours
-worst. We are yonrs."
" Evetythin shall be prepared wlthout'delay.
So hbegone; If yon~woutd save thjesuit thlhii
itants promised you."
The conference brbke up, leaving ]fgain to
niake what use she plou ed of that '  fehl shy
had heard,' and to think what she might oftlif
character ofPierre. 'he bothloathed astdtied
the man that could delih'b'rally plan theesla eab

/


REDPATH.                         25

24"

RED 'ATH,.

tion of human life. She met him an hour after
ward, pale but calm. Iis features were soften-
e4 'by smiles of affected, gaiety-he studied to
assumehis most agreeablyphases and phrases.
His playfulness might havebeen amusing had
it been sincere. Mignon permitted him to ex-
haust his. pleasantries with an appearance of
complaisance quite at variance with her feelings,
well knowing there was something mo re serious
behindUall Monsieur Mariot's good humor. He
grew sentimental and graciously grave-indica-
tions that he was wearing the point.
" In view of our approaching marriage "-he
began.
"What did you say, sir ?"  asked Mignon.
"I was going to observe, that in view of our
approaching marriage-"
"Marriage,. Monsieur Mariot?, Did you not
say marriage ?"
" That air was charmingly put on, Mignon !
Yes I-said the word you have repeated with so
much emphasis."
"Pleasesallow me to inquire to what parties
the word ' our' is intended to apply ?"   .
" To ypur charming self and your humble
servant, Pierre Mariot," he returned, bowing.
" That is news indeed ! How  facetious you
are to-day. I have not seen you so amusing for
a lon time."
"It is you who are facetious, it seems to me,
Mademoiselle Bellmar. Your father and I con-
versed seriously on this subject last night ; he
agrees with me that farther procrastination is
unnecessary. You are aware that it was the
intention of our parents that we should be united
when of a proper , age. Such a compact was
V made when we were but children, I think my
attentions to you have, been of a character not to
be misunderstood., I believed that my advances
were reeivd as they were intended; that your
own-sympathies as well as the wishes of your,
father .were in my favor, leading you naturally
to eapeet that the day of gur union must be,
near at hand ; it has even been referred to by
me ,iner Jearing, as an event long calculated
upon."
" Monsieurfariot, Iknow. nothing of a mar-
rigge  take placebetween you and I," sail
Mignon, calmly.
e"  ganuyoujest witl such a serious air that
you a3 r  ume!"  exclaimedPierre, turning very
" Be-assured there will be no marriage be-
tween us,"sheT added, in the same tone.

"You positively alarm me. Your manner is
really chilling. Do youmean to be understood
that all is at an end between is ?".
" I simply mean to say tiat I shall never-
marry you, Monsieur Mariot."
" Mademoiselle Bellmar !"
"Am I sufileiently plain' in .my speech to be
apprehended ?"
"You are cruelly plain if you are in earnest,"
he replied.
" I never was and never expect to be more in
earnest than at this moment. You are to re-
ceive this decision as final."
"0, I cannot believe this-it is too unexpect-
ed," cried Mariot, in a hoarse voice.
"Your vanity led you to expect nothing but
success. You were always vain, Pierre Mariot.
But thank heaven, I have never offered incense
to your vanity."
Mariot's pale cheeks flushed when Mignon
spoke of his vanity; the shaft went home.
"I must go to your father. I must know the
meaning of this,. I will beg of him to bring you
to reason."
"Is it my father that you wish to marry,
monsieur, or his daughter ?"
"Mignon] you are killing me !"
"The gifted and the good die young."
" What bitterness, Mademoiselle Bellmar.
Will you not regret;this ?  I may lose patience,
and remorse may visit you when it is too late."
"Your vanity spoke then; but do not trou-"
ble yourself, I lieg of you.
"When I repent mny present decision, I shall
better apprehend your menace. You wish to
insinuate that I shall sustain a great loss.
Believe me, now, I ai perfectly resigned to it,"
she rejoined.
" What will your worthy father say when he
knows your deteininatioft i Mignon, spare him
such grief, this union has been the dieam o fhis
life !"
"Are you thenanch adesirable son-in-law ?"
Mariostfelt himself demolished and prostrated.
His pride was in-rains; but his anger-strsamed
like fire abovethe wreck.'He=yas astounded
and at4 loss. ,-He knew not whether to retreat
or go forward, his fair: enemy had taken him so
muach:bsurprise:
" Go, Monsieur Mariotjand forgetme. There
is, no possibility4hat my feelings will change. SI
refuse you for the best reason-in the, world. .I
do not like eyout: Would you .wed a woman
who makes this confession 2"

- "'ou are jealous, perhaps ?" said Mariot,
faintly.
" There is your unpardonable vanity again.
Lovers only are jealous, and I cannot in the na-
ture-of things be jealous of a man whose pres-
ence is irksome. It is time this interview ended.
I wish you happiness with one more like you in
heart. Adieu, sir."
Mademoiselle Mignon arose, bowed ceremo-
niously, that is coldly, and left Mariot alone,
who, a moment.later, was heard hurrying through
the hall to the street.
A month after the events just recorded, at the
close of a day which had been uncommonly fine,
a man on horseback approached a succession of
rugged hills and defiles in the vicinage of those
extensive prairies lying along the Nebraska Riv-
er for many miles, the favorite' hunting grounds
of the dreaded Blackfeet. It would have puz-
zled a hunter, even, to- have determined wheth-
er the horseman was a white man or an Indian.
Indeed he could not well merit the term white,
his rough features being much burned by the ve-
hement suns of the prairies. There was nothing
very notable about his appearance. His horse
was a strong, tough nag, chosen more for his
powers of endurance than for speed or beauty ;
while the rider and his belongings filled up the
picture of a free trapper, very well provided for
the practice of his vocation.
He proceeded moderately and with much cir-
cumspection, as if conscious that he was in a
situation requiring constant vigilance. Soon he
entered a valley almost destitute of vegetation,
and at that hour gloomy as it was sterile. The
trapper dismounted, after going the distance of
an hundred rods or more, then turned to the
right into a gully worn by a stream of water
during the wet seasons, leading his .horse by the
bridle. 'The way must have been well known to
him, for he went forward with a confident step,
though retaining his watchful deportment;like
one resolutely determined not to be surprised
by an enemy. For the next half hour he con-
tinued to advance, frequently pausing a moment
to listen. He stopped in a small basin or hol-
low, shut in by trees and .rocks-a spot that
might be easily overlooked by a thousand, men
searching for a hiding place. Near the middle
of the  dingle, half-buried in wild shrubbery, there-
was a hut made of sticks, andcovered with bark,'
and which =might have escaped a less vigilant
eye ;, toward that humble habitation the trapper
directed his steps. He pushed open the door,

and a start of surprise indicated that he had
made a discovery unexpected and not wholly
agreeable. A dusky figure reposing by' a fire
that faintly glowed on the ground, sprang to his
feet and drew his hunting-knife the instant the
intruder looked in ; but seeing who had disturb-
ed him, returned the weapon to its sheath, keep-
ing his hand on the .handle, however, as if not
altogether decided whether to assume a hostile
attitude or not.
"Ravenclaw !" exclaimed the trapper.
"fBeavertaker P" said the other, in the guttural
tones of the red 'man.
'"Why do you come tothe hunting grounds
of the Blackfoot ?" he asked, with a scowl of
suspicion.
"I come because my wife is a Blackfoot, and
my home is with her people. Does it seem
strange to my brother that the heart of Beaver-
taker is heavy when he dwells in the wigwams
of the pale faces?"
".What is this you say ?  Are not your veins
poisoned with the blood of the white man? Can
you belong to the warlike Blackfoot, till you
have bled away the venom of the pale-faces ?
No, you will be but a woman among warriors, a
child among men,", replied IRavenclaw,. dis-
dainfully.
"Your thoughts are sour, and your wgrds
are bitter. Hear me, Ravenclaw. I have been
among the white men and I found their hearts
full of hatred; they drove me forth as if I had
.been a worthless dog, fit only to hunger and die
on the prairie. I shook my hatchet 'at them,
and came away with my heart burning for ven-
geance. I shouted the war-whoop of the brave
Blackfoot nation, and turned my back on them.
I said, I will go back to my adopted people,
and tell them my wrongs, and ask them to lie in
wait with 'me to take the scalps of my ene-
mies. That is what I swore to do, and behold
I am here."
Ravenclaw gave a slight exclamation of ap-
probation.
" I came here to get news of my wife, and to
unite myself to her people forever. But the
heart of 1,avenclaw gives me no welcome, and
he tells te nothing of my wife. I have no
friends, no home, no nation.  I will go and
dwell in solitude with the wild beasts."
" Some men have two faces and two tongues,"
said Ravenclaw. " They show one face to the
white man, and another to the red; they talk

* 4


MF5P4T.

with one tongue to the pale facet and with the
gther to the Indian."
"Iunderstand; you think I come to you with
lie in my pouth, with a hollow heart and
emptybauds.  iut you shall sep."
evayertaker called to his or e  th  beast
c pe eo his side; he relayed hidp.gf his burden
a4d turned hipi ,1op9  A package wylchhad
h9n fsteed to the cpper, he carried into the
hut and opened; it contained various articles
valued by Indians, beads, ribbons, high-colored
stuffs, smull mirrors, knives, etc. y
An expression of contempt grew upon the
Blackfoot's face.
"These things Ihave brought from the distant
wigwams of the pale-faces; let my brother take
what ha liks, and the heart of Beavertaker will
row light again," said the half-breed.
Ryenclaw did op deig tp loo at the goods,
his .wb    pontracted threateningly.
"What am I," he cried, in  startling voice,
that these pitifpl trifles should be offered me?
4i I a vain aquaw, tq covet such petty gew-
gaws . You are not wise, Beavertaker, you are
not wise; yon do not yet know the soul of Ra-
venclaw. He wants no such foolery-he wants
140t his arms end his horse; more would be a
burden to hinder his movements. You might
dazzle the eyes of silly women with your gay
wares, but the eyes of a true warrior can look at
the sun without being dazzled. For this insult
you deserve to die !"
"'You are in bad temper, my brother. I will
pgi p xmy goods and go in search of my wife,
ind see if she is also my enemy."
"Listen; when the white.man wishes to de-
ceiyp the Indian, he commences giving him
.      presents, and he ends by cutting his throat. Wa-
wr! it is these presents of worthless stuff that
re destroying the red races.  Foos are they
11 who accept presents .from the hands of the
artful pale-face. Take them from my sight, lest
I go mad and kill you ."
Beaver bound his goods and placed the pack-
age out of sight.
"Yqu doubt me; but hear what I will tell
yqu, pad doubt no longer. A large party of the
race yop hate are at hand; they are going to'
the mountains to trap, and they have brought
many packs of goods .to buy peltries with. I
will hea4 a party of Blachfoot warriors to sur-
p-ise them."j
"That is better ; but Ravenclaw always finds

REDPATH.

an enemy without a guide," returned the iddian,
proudly.,
" Do you Jovger dgybt me ?" asked thy half-
breed, calmly.,
"I believe you would destroy when it is your
interest to destroy."
"And I have another plan'to revenge myself
on these people, who are robbing our hunting
and trapping grounds of game," said Beaver-
taker, in a suppressed voice.
It "peak."
" I will seek for him at the mention of whose
name the white man trembles-Redpath !"
,edpath !" repeated Ravenclaw, with a
searching glance at the half-breed.
"Is the .name of Redpath strange to the ears
of Ravenclaw .Has he not heard of his deed?,
and rejoiced that there was one so during among
the warriors of the mighty Dlackfeet ? Is he
deaf to the fame of the most dreaded of the red
men of his nation "
"I know him not," replied Ravenclaw.
"My brother's eyes are sharp; he can see a
great distance, and he has a cunning under-
standing to comprehend that which is hidden,
and to know the secrets of his people," continued
I3eavertaker, adroitly:
"The tongue of Beavertaher is crafty in the
use of words, and he goes after secrets like a ser-
pent crawling through the grass. But let him
beware; they who seek are sometimes found,
they who would guide the vengeance of the great
?4onito sometimes direct the shaft into their
own breasts,"-
" It is dangerous then, to-".
"'fo seek the trail of Redpath, or to invoke
the thunders of his arm. He goes where he
will, and strikes because he will; his secret will
die with him. He will remain as he is, and no
one will be able to boast and say 'I have seen
him.' pepart in peace and be not curios g If
you would live to eat the fissh of the buffaloes
that will soon cover yonder prairies.  Keep
your tongue from speaking more than you know,
and your ears from hearing too much."
IRavenclaw spoke in a tone and manner that
gave the half-breed a feeling of uneasiness that
he coud not entirely conceal, aodof which he
felt ashamed.
"You ,9ubtless speak wisely, and is a way
honorah to your-great nation. I llopeyou will
aid me to strike a blew at our enemies; they are
ascending the Nebraska, and will sao he in the
mountains."

You have just said that my eyes and ears-
are open; they are-you have brought me no
news."
The countenance of Beavertaker evinced sur-
prise.
" My brother has been active, then; for it will
be at least a week before their trail will pass this
hut."
"And what is a week's travel by those who
ride loaded horses, and creep along like snails.
There are Blackfeet braves that can journey
that distance in two days, and feelno weariness.
Our people :never sleep soundly when an ene-
my is near."
"Ravenclaw is called brave, a successful war-
rior, and a good counsellor. Will he de angry
if I ask where is the wigwam of the Redpath ?"
The stately Indian darted a stem and.menac-
ing look at the half breed. -
" Son of the pale-face and the red," he retort-
ed, in tones of authority mingled. with anger,
"you have too much curiosity to be a warrior.
What is Redpath to you? heis nought. He is
an eagle upon tie mountains that stoops not
from his lofty flight to mate with meaner birds.
He makes a. swoop and fixes his talons with
the speed of lightning; the next moment he
is soaring to the sun, or perched iid his eyrie
far, far up the inaccessible cliffs. -If you knew
his lodge, if you could climb to his high nest,
your breath of life would go out befo   or
moon. Son of the Frenchman and tIian
woman, I can lead you-to the wigwam of lBed-
path. By the soul of Monedo, Redpath will die
as he has lived, and the eyes of the pale-face
shall never look upon his grave,"
" Be it so, my brother. I spoke that I might
be wiser."
"Wiser ! My knowledge of Redpath is noth-
ing. I know but his name and the fame of his-
deeds. Be not'like the young and foolish who
have no wisdom ; but profit by the examples of
mighty warriors and conquering chiefs. Go;
you will find her you seek with a band of hun-
ters encamped yonder toward the sunset. Go,
and be wary ; you see that your heart is not big
toward the race we abhor."  -
Beavertaker-known to the reader as Gar-
dette, at Westport-studied for a few Seconds by
the fitful fire-light the calm and lofty features of
Ravenclaw, then with a compelled feeling of re-
spect, took, up his package of goods, placed it
upon his horse, mounted, and 'rode toward the{
spot indicated by the haughty Indian.

CHAPTER V.
SnW MIsroRTUNES..BMPALL oBION'S SAND.
IT has been stated that Brn observed that
the youthful adventurer who .has twice passed
before the reader's imagination, had glanced
with some degree of interest at the hatchet that
he found so singularly. Falling again in the
rear of his band, after Buckeye's departure, he
examined the weapon more particularly.  It
was- small, and finished with scrupulous neat-
ness, smooth as 'the surface of a mirror. It
seemed to have but one defect-the handle did
not appear sufficiently tight ; and while notic-
ing the fact, he discovered a piece of paper be-
tween the same and the eye intb which it' was
fitted. With the point'of his knife he drew out
the paper, and .was astonished to find there was
writing upon it, which he hastened to read.
"You are closely and perseveringly watched
by those who seek the ruin of your enterprise,
and who will not hesitate to employ the' niost
exceptionable means to ensure their purpose.
Be wary, if you would escape- dangers pressing
and imminent, and plots the most cunningly
devised."
" This is extraordinary," exclaimed Briod,
when he had read the foregoing lines.
"I am closely watched, and am exhorted to
be wary.' Who wrote these words of warning ?
I would give six months salary to know; they
are traced -with a pencil, and ,by a practised
hand, too. A plot ! What does that mean? It
refers to a rival company,,clearly. Let me see.
This was written a week ago, and I have been
so stupid asnot to discover it. Two deathshave
occurred -since that time-one last night, one
the night before. But this is a strange way of
communicating  intelligence, and  uncertain,
withal, for had I not discovered the hatchet, it
might have remained there and the paper with
it, so all this good will would have been lost.
Who will say that the prairies have not their bit
-of romance ? But who comes 4 A'stranger, a
white man, a hunter."
The man who excited the last remark urged
his horse to a gallop as he drew near ; in a few
minutes he, was by Brion's side. - The partisan
while affecting to regard his approach with in-
difference, or as a common-place affair, was really
studying his features closely, trying to recall
when and under what circumstances he had met
rhim.before; for it seemed to him that this was
not their first meeting. Having described oth-


2HBDPATIL                        29

'Ii

ers of his calling,: we. have no inclination to'
inflict useless items of dress and outfit, while
his person and beaingjpresented nothing very
remarkable., HisfacetWas not easy to read,;
but might have passed very well for an honest
one,,mathed neither by 'genius nor uncommon.
tact. Hegaluted Brion familiarly, who returned
his salutation with civility. The latter's wish
was to know Whether the new comer wi inthe
employ'of a6rival company;, it was a natural de-
sire. He approached the subject with caution,
and his- meaiiig without declaring-it directly,
was quickly understood.,
"My -name," said the trapper, "isDerelle,
and my business you can easily guess."
"Yes," said Brion. - 'I
"TV relieve you from any suspicion that you
may feel, I will inform you that I am not in the
employ of any fur company, nor attached to a
brigade of trappers."
"A free trapper?"',
" Thank fortune, yes. I want my liberty. I
should not feel like a man if I were under anoth-
er's control. Give me the mountains and prai-
ries, and lakes and"rivers, with nothing but my
horse and my own will to guide me, and I am
happy. Human authority galls me, or rather
would gall me, were I to submit to it. 0I
never could be-a slave after having breathed
the air of freedom in a country reaching from
sea to sea; and provided by nature with enough
to supply the simple necessities of man."  -
" You discourselike one to the wilderness born
and bred," said the partisan.
" That is true. I was born on the border,
and have been a rover since a boy. The ways
of civilized life in great cities, and busy towns,
do not please such as I. The noise of machinery,
the smoke of crowded habitations and the artifi-
'cialities of modern usages, repel me and make'
me more in love with my manner of life," ad-
ded Dorelle.
"Where have I heard that voice ?" queried
Brion. "Have you crossed any Indian trail?"
he asked..
"Yes, of a large body." -
"Of what nation?"
"The-most hostile and most dangerous-the
Blackfoot."
" Which.way did the trail tend ?"
"-Off in that direction to our left."
"Consequently; to avoid them.-"
"You must keep  lose to the mountains one
the right."

The partisan did not immediately reply; he
reflected.
" That would seem like rushing into danger.
The Blackfeet are wont to lie in wait in yon-
der defiles at the base of the mountains," he re-
marked, at length, in a careless tone.
f 'I know it ; but it would appear from the
direction of the trail, that they have changed
their tactics."'
" That is avery reasonable conclusion," quoth
Brion. " To-morrow I must think about chang-
ing our course."
"It would be prudent ; but a man of expe-
rience like you, needs no advice."
' Here are my men," said the partisan, as
they came up with the rear of that band. " Make
yourself at home with them."
With these words he spurred forward, and was
soon in advance of the foremost of the party,
mounting every eminence, crossing every brook,
and examining the ground where it was soft
enough to yield to the pressure of human feet.
While thus actively engaged in reconnoitering,
his thoughts were not wholly engrossed with his
employment ; they wandered back to Westport,
to linger about the; spot where he had seen Mig-
non. The clattering of horses' feet recalled his
mind to the rough region of reality where his
corporeal substance was.
" You see we have overtaken you, captain,"
said a voice.
Brion raised his eyes and perceived several of
the more thoughtless young men of-his band, of
whom Headley was the leading spirit.
" This is imprudent," exclaimed Brion, very
sharply. " You had orders not to leave the
main body."
"And why is it imprudent ?" asked Headley,
haughtily, for he liked not the tone of command
which the partisan assumed.
" It is imprudent, in the first place, because
you had my orders to remain with the brigade,
and in: the next, for the reason that a party of
Blackfeet are lurking in the vicinity," said the
mountaineer, firmly.-
" 0, is that all?" exclaimed Headley, with a
derisive laugh, in which his companions joined.
"That is suffcient; I order you to return
instantly," rejoined Brion, with a dignified and
authoritative air.
"Are we then under martial discipline ?"
asked Ueadley,adgrily.
"You are under my orders, and when I abuse
my power,,there will be time enough to rebel.

It is my duty to use my authority wheti the gen-
eral safety is concerned ; therefore, go back."
Three of the refractory . spirits reluctantly
turned and sullenly rode toward the brigade,
which was about two miles in the rear, while
Headley and two others obstinately kept on, dis-
regarding orders.
" Men, you will regret this I" exclaimed Brion,
in a voice free from anger or harshness, yet de-
cided and full of meaning.
" We will see, we will see 1" retorted Headley,
biting his nether lip with vexation.
The partisan's frank and manly face grew
cloudy.
" These green hands," he muttered to himself,
"will bring misfortune upon our enterprise. And
I am responsible for all that happens. I was a
fool to accept this post, but I will be obeyed 1"
The mountaineer continued his investigations
several hours with all that tact and skill expe-
rience had taught him. He was thus busied
when he was joined by Buckeye, whose presence
at that moment was desirable, as. Brion felt the
need of a friend on whom he could rely. They
rode on side by side, the latter relating what had
passed between him and Headley.      -'
" There he is, yonder, waiting for the band to
come up," said Buckeye.
. "And a few yards before him is one of his
foolhardy companions."
The partisan'and. Buckeye soon reached the,
spot where Headley was sitting.
"Where are your friends ?"
"If you have eyes, you will see one of them,
yonder, seated 4n a rock," he replied.
"And the other?"
" Is still further ahead, on the other side of
the ridge."-
" Very well; you 'may consider yourself dis-
missed from the employment of the American
Fur Company, Mr. Headley. From this mo-
ment you are at liberty to go where you please."
"What do you say I" cried Headley, disa-
greeably astonished.
Brion made no answer, and riding on, repeated
the same words to the next man, who attempted
to stammer forth excuses whichthe partisan did
not wait to hear. When he reached the top of
the ridge spoken of by Headley, he looked for
the third transgressor, whose name was Stringer;
but Stringer was not visible.
Buckeye hurried forward and descended the
slope at a gallop. Before ten minutes had elaps-
ed, he called to Brion to come on as fast aS pos-

sible. ° Alarmed by the peculiar tones of Buck-
eye's voice, the mountaineer struck the spurs
into his horse and dashed down the ridge. He
found the trapper leaning over the pommel of
his saddle, with pale cheeks and dilated eyes.
Upon the ground at the fore feet of Flash, was
stretched the unfortunate Stringer ; he was lying
on his back, the blood had receded from his face,
his lips were white, and he was gasping in the
last extremity. Brion sprang from his horse,
but the man was dead before he reached him.
The mountaineers gazed at the corpse with
feelings of indescribable awe. There was some-
thing crushing in the thought that a man who a
moment since was full of life and youthful fire,
was now but a clod, powerless, inert.
Come in what form he will, death takes men
by surprise ; he arrives too soon-is always
grind and terrible. Let him come in sudden-
ness and mystery, when mortals have no intima-
tion of his 'approach, taking one whose life seems
good for many years, and he is doubly fearful.
Brion and"Buckeye were still contemplating
the yet warm body, when Headley and his com-
rade came up ; they had heard the trapper's call
to Brion, and were suspicious that something
strange had occurred.   Drawing near with
downcast, anxious looks, they beheld the spec-
tacle that kept the tongues of the mountaineers
mute.   Headley was astounded ; his visage
grew as pallid as the ashy features of Stringer.
He allowed the bridle rein to fall from his grasp,
and with glassy eyes and parted lips, stared at
the stiffening body of hitn who a few minutes
ago was riding -gaily'at'his side. An inexplica-
ble dread fastened upon his heart ; an indefina-
ble trembling seized his limbs. He seemed to
see an - unknown danger approaching in circles
that every instant lessened their diameter.- In
the ghastly face of Stringer he fancied he saw
his own fate. Like him he should be stricken by
an unknown dart, and like him be gazed at by eyes
dilated with terror; like him be buried on the
prairies and left to eternal solitude.
Brion gave him a reproachful look-a look
which accused him of being an accessory to his
comrade's death.
"Do you see this ?" said the partisan, when
the silence had become oppressive.
Headley made an affirmative sign.
"And do you remember that I warned you of
the danger of leaving the'party ?" continued the
captain, with cold severity.
The Missourian sat motionless in his saddle.

28

nEDPATg.


s4            RWAE.                                                   3

"You claim some knowledge of surgery. -Do
you wish to examine this body ?"  resumed
Brion.
Headley shook his head like one who wishes
to say, " I have had enough of that; it is of no
use."
Buckeye was sitting calmly upon his horse ;
he now darted a meaning glance at Headley
from under his heavy brows; it needed no in-
terpreter-,-he undergood its signification perfect-
ly ; it asked him if he' was satisfied i if he be-
lieved there were others who knew as maeh as
he did.
"Have you an explanation to offer ?" added
the partisan.,
"No," replied Headley, "I have nothing to
say."
" Not so with me," said Buckeye. "I have
a few words to say, which may perhaps make
our wise friend from Missouri a trifle wiser--
if that's possible. I'm prettyssartin that my
opinion on many pints isn't worth a charge of
powder ; but what I know, I'm sure of. Now,
sir, (looking at Headley), if you want to discover
whether Stringer died of a disease of the head
or heart, you shall be gratified."
Then addressing Brion :
" I said I had a secret to tell you, to-morrow,
but seeing what's happened, I wont keep it any
longer, for there'll never be a better time."
To Headley again:
"Now, sir, examine Stringer's head."
The Missourian dismounted, and resting one
knee on the ground, lifted $trieger's head, and
holding it with the palnQf his left hand,scruti-
nized it closely.
I see nothing," he, affirmed.
"Part the hair just above his right aer, and
you will find the head of a steel arrow driven
through the skull into the brain," said Buceee.
"It is so," exclaimed Headley.
"And yet there is no blood to indicate a mor-
tal wound," said Brion.
"The hair is saturatedvery little underneath,
newt the skin," replied Headley; "but the fact
that there is no hemorrhage is easily accounted
for. The arrow-head is not much large] than a
lady's bodkin, and makes but a mere puncture
in the skin; -leing driven with great, force it
penetrates deeply into the brain, causing instant
paralysis of all the vital fnetions."  ,
" That certainly seems to be an arrowheadd"
said Headley's friend,  "But where is the
shaft ?"

" Look once more," added Buckeye.
Readley passed the point of a penknife into
the scarcely perceptible wound, feeling carefully
over the steel surface.
" It may be so contrived," he said, when he
had reflected a moment, " that the shaft could be
detached, after driving the point to its fatal des-
tination,"
" Or broken off," suggested Headley's friend.
" And the shaft, what becomes of that ?" que-
ried Brion, looking at Buckeye.
" One thing's sartin; it isn't to be seen in this
case, and it was so in the other too; so we can
form what opinion appears most nat'ral. I dare
say the cunnin' reptile as did this, broke off the
shaft and carried it away, as an act of bravado,
as well as to mystify and make things look un-
accountable."
" I will see if he comes and goes without a
trail," said Brion, throwing the bridle rein to
Buckeye.
" Remain just where you are, men, that no
new track may be made," he added, commenc-
ing a close Investigation of the ground, which
continued until the entire party came up. The,
foremost, hearing what had happened, commu-
nicated it to those next to them, and the news
ran quickly from mouth to mouth until all were
in possession of it. While those in the rear
were pressing to the scene of the catastrophe, the
partisan approached Buckeye, and said, in a low
tone :
" I wish you to watch the stranger who joined
us to-day. Keep your eyes on him when he looks
at Stringer's body, and is hearing the circum-
stances that attended his death."
The trapper made a sign that he would do so.
Dorelle was in no hurry, being the last to ap-
proach the corpse. When he beheld the white
,and rigid Face, he shuddered and drew back, as
if the spectacle was more shocking than he had
anticipated.  Buckeye observed him closely
while the story of the steel-arrow was being told
by those who had first reached the spot. That
it produced in his mind feelings of unfeigned
astonishment, the trapper did not doubt, his de-
meanor attesting'it in every natural way.
There' was now. ample subject for conversa-
tiou among the trappers, young and old, confess-
ing the same interest, the same awe. Stringer
was buried as his. companions had been, the
mountaineers. resuming their long and weary
march with saddened :hearts and clouded-faces,
pondering darkly on the fate of Stringer, ask-

'ng whose turn would come next, eeh mutually
sawing: "It may he me."
Teadley, on whop the incident of the day
head made a deep impression, rode up to llrion
the, moment an opportunity offered whey he
could address him alone.
" I owe you en apology,,captain," he said,
"for my folly, and I hope you will he disposed
to overlook what has passed. I. acknowledge
that I merited reproach, and the death of String-
er is a rebuke that will cause me sorrow so long
as I live."
"I restore you to your place, Mr. Headley,
and your friend, too ; and will attribute your
conduct to' thoughtlessness, rather than obsti-
nacy," replied the partisan, with that franknes
that characterized him.
Headley thanked him and hastened to inform
his refractory companion of the result of his
apology.
Brion ordered a halt in the afternoon, for the
purpose of hunting the buffalo, having killed
but one since leaving fort Laramie. A few of
the most skilful hunters were sent out, the re-
mainder of the band being strictly enjoined to
keep within certain precincts ; an injunction that
the leader had no difficulty in enforcing, seh a
dread of their mysterious enemy had fallen on
them. The hunt not proving successful, it was
resolved to continue it during the next day;
therefore their encampment was made to assume
a more permanent appearance. Being in a dan-
gerous neighborhood, a corral was built for the
horses, and various precautionary measures were
men:
As the night drew on, Brion gbaerved that
many of the men grew anxious, even some of
the veterans; so much had the fate of Strigger
sp'ected them. Within the corral, which was
considerable large, a smaller enclosure was ,made
by placing the trunks of cottoti-woods horison-
tally on the ground ones upon the other, until
they reached as high as the breast of  man of
ordinary height. Behind that shelter they hop-
ed to escape the skill of their inexplicable adver -
sary. We must, however, except ths prgsan
.d Buckeye from tho number who entertained
the idea of passing the night behind such a shel-
ter; he had other thoughts.-
"look," said he to Buckeye, "the sa is
sinking majestically upon the prairies; it is not
easy to. dispel the illusion that it will gotrest on
this m  hty .level, instead f pasug to another .
hemisphere to illumi mte Qther gertals-to ahie.

on other cities and peoples, mountains, lakes
And rivers"
"That was my owe thought," replied the
other; " but it woujd save been .morally, a4-
possible for a ,rpugh old feller like me to ex-
press it in such a way. RUman creturs may he
constituted pretty ncar alikq, cap'n, as to the
real men, but we haven't all the same fakilty of
.expressiop. .Now that uat'rally reminds me of
death, when the sun of life seems to he going
down into the airtb, so to speak, to be buried
and extinguished 'forever. To all appearance,
what there is of sueh s you end I ceases to he,
is put into the ground to be compounded again
with theeternal elements, to play its part in otl-
er forss, tilltime shall be no longer. But cap'n,
there may be sythiu' that rises like the sun, like
it to shine forever in another region."
" God knows how fervently I hope so ," ex-
claimed Brion, " To believe that Stringer has
a Consciousness at this moment, like yours and
mine, as full, as perfect, would almost console
one for his death ; nay, it would quite."
"Poor Stringer !" sighed Buckeye.
"I don't know whether to say poor Stringer or
not !" said hirion, impressively, looking up sol-
emnly into the cloudless sky. " By heavens, he
may be better off at this instant than you or I.
I sometimes wish that the arrowaof Redpath
might enter my own brain, and thus dismiss me
from care and pain."
"Pain and care ! what pain and care should
one like yot have, cap'n ? perhaps you lost your
heart at Westport ?" rejoined Buckeye,
The paltisa blushed-,-sn assertion that may
perhaps appear well nigh incredible to the read-
er i but it has been proved numeberless times
that the man who em faae a eatery or anra-
dian in his wersp int, ls the ability to push
when agairs of the hemyt pre 4iscourse4 of, and
pointed allusions ma.de.
"If that be trtle, she who foun4 .it, found
nothing wofth keeping, T fear,'heanswered.
",nm hog4s 0one,?'a m, honest one i" said
buckeye.
"You are getting slang to fast, my friend.
I have not yet confessed to the charge you were
pleased to pak."
The trapper declared that tp love fair maiden
was not to tran gsess laws; frine or human,
" The men are gloomy,"spd Brion, abruptly.
"'Tis mt raeap'n after w4ats happened.
They ceg's eJp thiekipg that at the end of three
months, if things go 4n in thisway, there wont

3;1

1
i"


82                        REDPATH.

be many of them left. Each one says, 'I, too,
may wake up some mornin' and find a steel ar-
row in my head.' Now sich' an idea as that,
when it fairly -gets possession of a seller's mind,
can't be' considered very cheerin', accordin' to
my view of matters gin'rally, though you may
have different notions, bein' better eddicated."
"By my faith !" exclaimed the partisan, "you
are about right ; the idea of being dogged by a
single enemy, and picked off one by one at his
leisure is not pleasant. So far as the mere fact
of dying is concerned, one could not choose an
easier death; but people seldom reach that pe-
riod when they are willing to submit to even
the easiest death that can be contrived. The
love of life is strong,and follows one alike through
happiness and misery. Come now, good Buck-
eye, tell me if you are yourself ready to offer
your head to the fatal skill of Redpath?"
"'By the beard of Joe Smith, noi I prefer to
keep my upper story unbroken, and in a condi-
tion to be useful. You forget that I have a
friend to provide for ?"
"A friend ?"
"Yes, and a good one too ; there he stands,
yonder,-eating grass like Nebuchadnezzar."
" 0, you mean Flash !"
",Yes, Flash-a creetur that has all thebetter
qualities of the human species, with a great deal
more speed."
"He is certainly swift of -foot," said -Brion,
with a smile.
".The name of Redpath has'often been men-
tioned between you and I, and you once did me
the favor to ask my opinion consarnin' him; now
I want to put the same question to you, for I've
observed that you've been non-committal and on
the'fence, as 'twere, retpectin'*him."-
"I will be very frank, Buckeye, and keep'
nothing-from you. That we are followed by a
vengeful enemy, is indisputable; that this en-
emy is cunning beyond anyI ever encountered,
I also freely'admit;- but if it be the famedBlack-
foot chief called Redpath,' I have no' means
whatever of knowing. Familiar as the name 'of
Redpath is to me I will avow to you that have,
from the first, been inclined to consider himi but
the creation of some wonder-lovingbrain."
"You feel positifel f sai'tin that three of your
party have been killed," said Buckeye, sarcasti-
cally, rather, for him.'
The partisan answered in the affirmative, but
added that they might have been killed; not by
one savage, but possibly by'three.'

" That isn't altogether probable ; a party of
three would have more difkilty in concealing
their trail than one, as you'll understand at once,
when you come to think of it., Agin; this sort
of thing is done by one who has served a long
apprenticeship at it, so to speak ; otherwise he
couldn't have acquired that awful sartinty that
charaktarizes him. Depend on't, it's done by a-
riptile as has follered it for months, perhaps for
years, growin' more and more acute, cunnin'
and terrible."
" Your reasoning is just; this marvellous act
of approaching an encampment, this wondrous
power of striking a victim with a precision that
is deadly, and retreating without leaving trail or
other sign than a dead body,,is really startling,
and well nigh staggers belief; but I am resolved
to solve the apparently inexplicable mystery."
"Beware !" exclaimed the trapper, "beware
what you do !"
" What! does a brave man as I have consid-
ered you to be, hold a single savage-armed, as
it would seem, with a bow and arrow, in such
dread ?" said the partisan.
" Tell me who and where my enemy is, and I
am not afraid to meet him ; but it is embar-
rassin', to say the least, to seek a riptile who has
the fakilty of makin' hisself invisible, who
walks round ye without makin' anytrack, who
kills ye afore you know he's near, who's off afore
you've gasped away the breath of life. Where'll
you go to find him?  Will it be east or west,
north or south,' this way or that ? You can't
tell, because you don't know when you've found
him ? What assurance have ye that he wont
see you first ?" '
"There are difficulties to be considered, and
obstacles to surmount, but courage and a strong
will can accomplish what, at first thought, ap-
pears impossible," returned Briot, firmly.
" If courage and a strong will can do so much,
cap'n, why don't they keep the creetur away
from the camp-fires at night?  Why don't cout-
age and a strong will prevent .him from killin'
your men?"
Buckeye looked triumphantly at the partisan,
who listened with interest to the development
of the trapper's feelings, which he was internally,
determined he should lay bare.
" Until to-day, we have had but little warning
of the presence'"of such a foe.- The singular ab-
sence of wounds in the two first cases let- some
doubt on the mind in regard to the causf their,
death, and it is only a few hours since the mys-

REDPATH.

tery was cleared up. I shall now use every pre
caution to prevent the recurrence of similar vis
itations, that experience and prudence can de
vise; but it is a humiliating thought that seventh
men are forced to extraordinary measures fo
protection against a singlesavage arm ; it shame
me, Buckeye, and makes me doubt that I hav
passed ten years in the mountains, where dan
gers are thick, and skill is indispensable. If]
do not put a stop to this, the name of Ben
Brion will cease to be quoted as a brave and
sagacious man, fit to command in the mos
trying emergencies."
" Don't lay it so much to heart, for you ain
without witnesses that you've been prudent as
a human being' could be, inder the circumstances
Human foresight can't foresee everything."
"If matters progress as they have begun, my
witnesses will be dumb ones," said Brion, with
a smile.       ,,
"And deaf, too," quoth Buckeye.
"I think I may trust you ?" resumed the
partisan.
" You can't tell till you try me," returned
the trapper, drily.
"I wish to tell you-.--move this way a little,
the very person I was going to speak of is watch-
ing us-that I am suspicious, of the good faith
of this stranger, Dorelle. If you were to ask
my reasons, I am very sure I should :not be able
to give them. I shall watch;him."
"I'll take him in hand, too, 'cap'u, andsee
what I can make of him. If I discover, mischief
in him, he'd better be among the Blaekfeet or
the Apaches," said;Buckeye, determinedly.-,
: " He isto be depended 'on; if ever mani-was
trustworthy," said Brion to himself,;as he walk-,
ed about the encampment to see if all had been
done according to his orders ; the remark refer-
red to the trapper.
CHAPTER VI.
GOLDI-HUNTLNG IS TALKRDJ OF.,
EVENING name., The hunters and trappers
were gatheredabout'the eamp-fires in -groups,
cooking their supper,:discussing the alhengms.
ing 'suject of theday. Each in, turn gave his
opinion, hazarded a conjectureor recited some
startling tale, of :Indian' cunning and eruelty4
The youn-g men of the band had less'to saythanu
usual; 'their"ardor was cooled; theyfervently
wishedthetselves within thepale of civilization
agaid, no longer finding fault at the lack of in'

33

- cident that attended their march. The faces of
Stringer, Minten and, Townsend were constant-
ly before them, reviving and keeping vivid'the
y mystery of their death, the awful suddenness of
r their departure.
s   "It would appear," said Headley, "that we
e are destined to fall by the wayside, one at a
- time. We shall mark each day's journey by a
I grave."
" That is true," responded. a young man by
- the name of 'Conroy, who but two days before
t had complained of the monotony of their jour-
ney, and its paucity of adventure.
t   "I wonder," resumed Headley, as if talking to
s himself, "if, we were hired for the purpose of
- being shot in-the head with a steel-arrow ?"
The query, though addressed to no one in par-
ticular, caught like' a train of powder, just as it
was intended. The short but expressive mono-
syllable "Noo," made the .circuit of the group in
an instant.
" That is my own opinion," added Headley.
"I have from the first, entertained the idea,
that our services were engaged to trap and hunt."
" In course," said Conroy, sullenly.
"But it's too late, now, I, suppose, t !  ve
ourselves. Seeing, we must all succumb to the
foul fiend that dogs us, sooner or later, I expect
we must make the best of it.. It would be well,
however, to suggest to the captain to dig a grave
every night, so that our march wont be delayed
in the morning. We could then look in each
other's faces andseem to realize that one of us is
actually tremblingon the boundary of the 'other
world."
"God save me from such a realization for
many a year!" exclaimed Conroy, glancing
around uneasily.
'" 0, it is an easy-r death," added Headley,
adroitly,:knowing well how to excite the fears of
his, comrades.,
"If youacovet such a fate, seek it; but it flls
me with unspeakable dread!" cried Conroy, with
"It is so sudden, that one has no chance to
repent,"paid'Porelle, whohad joined the group.
The young $rappers looked encouragingly at
their new ally.
t       aI wish weucould change our route so as to
leavetthisraccursed trail !" protest Readley,
wityinfreasig boldness.
":I had tthoaught" added Dorele, artfully,
"that you were one of the partners, and not an
employee?"

4


B t PATH.                            85

RiiMA'fD.

" 0 no, sir. 1m uanderthe ore of Beni.B
on !" said Headley, with afadone fedgh.
" Indeed' that is singsi ! I'vehad my sus-
pieions that folit uditing wdsritia real object
of this expedition,"*added Dorelle.
"What other object could- theft be'iii fieW t'
interrogated Headley, snapping' eagesyf at the
bait florelie had tlifwit out.
"It isn't expedient for a man to tell his
thoughts always ; Bit the iaoidedt I saw you
this morning, I said to-myself, 'thiS dian has a
higher object than' pelfries, ahead.' "
The attention of the- eadley cliqte waS fixed
iqiringly upon Threlle.
"Foudre ! yeaar drceiviag" ine; confess'
now, that you have hearf'd ' the discovery of
gold in the rrodntains ?" -
The Missourta's eyeS flashled'witha ekpeea-
tioi.
"Speak low, Wietsleut l orelie, spoak lot",
he exclaimed, earnestly.
"IFknew I was right," asserted:DOrelle, afect-
ing to be elated at his farightedees.   .
"'You are wrong, sir; we have heard nothing
of the discovery to which you refer; butyout see
here a seoreof:goodfellows, tradyfM 'aty enter-
prise that promises well;  aid will' takethem out
of this infertal gregi f     yoi"
"Not so                 o  iSt,emysferd" I'if yott-has' dot
heard of the new gold rgl n, Wir'dtlf dhi I
retita in'silent. Ma-foit!Why   ifttldidassle
yen with tales of areg is sassltig'itriachness
all the- wealth of oriental tkistgs; it would. fill
yat' dreams with esctra pttu ieouigttuties;
and destroy your peace when waking."
'You excite my curiosity tothe- highestrole-
g  , Monsieur DOrelleh  TMme oftii landof
yellow dust. Is it a thing known tA I, of is'iV
at seems, faitflly iept'bby aflM 'V'
aI  is know' onlyto a  aeetinbnumnber of
French voyageurs and hunters, whokeep i tsna"
ciealy. 1t was onlyle ida   ht  t Igof oS-
se gng'of it." t
Headley rubbed his forehead and flduted
abeut'teondly -
"Will ou a155nie'ttSolfaz Enint
tentior.of taking thismhnport  ratbt r'y  du
own advantage?" he inquired.
! Self intent, I bel0ei6 sppermtfots in Ihe
h aaaa   indpwth ery' feW 00ption t : ke
others, I am striving for aImig;  itklsg'dl
gently with my hasa&amp; and h s'ar5P 'wac  plis
mypurpoesi Wol' iS hdty be' attral thlI
should think much of what I have berS' telling

yod ? You will.say yes, like a reasonable tan,
ant be tight, too, for I have thought of this sub-
ject, day and night, for weeks. There are diffi-
culties td conquest, obstacles, to surmount, da,
gets to meet ; bit uen of courage, determine'
tion and perseverance can overcome all. What
is there that man eaniot do when, the motive ir
powerful and the will strong ? These mines are
situated in a dangerous neighborhood, farther'
frees us than the ground already travelled, in a
different direction from our present route,
through the countries of savage nations-the
ttahs, the Navajoes, the Pimos, the Maricopos,
and lastly, the famous Apaches."
A c tltd of disappointment passed over Head-
Ay's face the distance and danger startled him
and depressed his hopes.
" You ssare speaking of that region lying, be.
tween New Msexico and the Great Basin-th0
country of an extinct nation-the Aztec?" he
added.
.  Yet, the land of the ancient Aztec, traces of
kyhose art and industry yet remain."
"Ha     ndyou ever been thefe, Mods. Dorelle "
"I have passed months there; traversed its
vales s and ruountains, seen its rivers, gazed
with awe upon the CasS'Monttaneula"
" 1ifngined that was a fabulous'fabric, exist-
ing in the"'mands'of eteduloul people."
"Ah, ny friend, you see before you a man,
who has actually seen the Casa Morttazuza---a.
mighty, btt still- grauld- ris, where, the gitOt
king; whose{name is yet spoken with ftveenk
by thb  atve, once dwelt- irk barbri' splendor..
The sight of that crumbling edidfe, which-seems:
to connect the past with, the present; produced
4msotions which I cannot describe. It brought
to my vlsio  the phantomipant, venerable yet
grim, grey yet gloomy,: silent yet speakltg alIan-
guage not to be misiaterpreted,.telling of en-
joyments gone, glory departed, power decayed."
Dorelle spoke with apparent' enthusiasm, and
was now the central point of attraction to the
, wondering-group. The niet gathered round him
as if heweke an oracle, tilocking, the past as
well arlaying open-the-fatire. Onewho has the
6 faculty of  making others believe that he has
ieard morejseen more, and k towu5nrerthan his
a auditri; aill always stad, ine there estimatlet,
r like Sai among the prohs. Thus sIt. was
' with Mousieur Dorelle; he was, the hero of st
ifn;the marvel of the inexpeteIned a d5sank
ine, .    ewho-sat that night at the camp4fir'of he

"A vast region of ruins and hidden wealth is
that country," added Dorelle." The treasures of
an extinct race are concealed ingeniously be-
neath walls now crumbling, and buried in earth,
now overgrown with rank w9eds, with the mez-
quit, the parasitic vine, the  d sage, and the
dwarf pine. Foudre t it setsmy blood in a hot
fever to think of it. A few hardy, adventurous
men, a little faith, with boldness.and persever-
ance, wpuld suffice to acquire those riches. I
have sought such persons, but* upon my honor,
messieurs, I cannot find them; or rather I can-
not make them have confidence in the treasures
of that country."
"You shall soon cease to complain, Monsieur
Dorelle 1" cried Headley, looking at his friends.
" Here are those who have not only faith but
resolution. Discontented with their present cir-
cumstances, they wait but opportunity to change
their course and their prospects. Tell me, sir,
can the dangers you refbr to be greater than
that strange fatality that now follows in our trail
like the angel of death, transfixing one and ano-
ther with his dart ?"
A visible tremor shook Dorelle's person.
"Not half so fearful," he replied, in a voice
sunken almost to a whisper. "I can conceive of
nothing more diabolical than the systematic kill-
ing of this savage or devil, or whatever he may
chance to be. Being naturally superstitious, I
acknowledge that I have much difficulty in per-
suading myself that this pathless, trackless power
is human. Ah, messieurs, they may call him
Redpath, if they will, but to me he is a demon."
"That's what I say !" exclaimed Conroy,
striking his right knee violently with the corres-
ponding hand, to give proper energy to his
words.
"And I, also," said Loretto, a. Mexican, and,
Violett, a Creole, and half a dozen others-
"This is gratifying !" exclaimed Dorelle. "I
expected'to. become an object of ridicule among
you, after°making- such an avowal; but I am.
agreeably disappoiritede I ai *a catholic, mess-
sieurs, a staunch believer-in the devil, and that
the devil' sometimes assists hit instruments, i
the flesh."
"No doubt of it ," mutteined Loretto, cfitsn g
himself.
"My lads" said eadley, what'say you to
turning our footsteps toward' Gilt eIve' in
search of treasure?"
"I care not whither we go, providing we but

change our course," responded Conroy, and
several others.
"'Will you lead us there, if we can enlist
enough in our-interest to make the expedition
promising ?" asked the Missourian, again turn-
ing to Dorelle.
" Gladly 1" he answered, emphatically.
" Who will go ? who will go ?" cried Headley,
with enthusiastic eagerness. "'Come, let those
who will go, speak-and speak in earnest I"
Ten persons, comprising all in the group, in-
stantly signified their willingness to follow Do-
relle, and desert Brion.
" Warn them to be cautions, and not let their
intentions be known," whispered Dorelle to the
Missourian, who immediately gave instructions
to that effect, which they promised to observe.
",One thing we have overlooked; we need an
outfit to undertake such a long and trying expe-
dition ; all these things around us, we must bear
in mind, belong to the American Fur Company,
and not to us."
"I can assist you somewhat in regard to that,"
said Dorelle. "I have a cache, fortunately, pro-
vided for this very object."
" If we were not where we are, I should cry
three cheers for Monsieur Dorelle,"' said Head-
ley, joyfully. "Now, my friends, fortune and
adventure are before us," he added, with an en-
thusiasm he did not attempt to disguise, and
which his companions shared.
Buckeye, during this conversation, was sleep-
ing (or seemed' to be) on a pile of packs and
saddles, a few yards distant; his proximity was
either not known or not cared for. Flash ap.
broached his-master, and smelled round him, as
if to assure himfelt that he was there, and his
footsteps had' the effect to- arouse him. He arose
to his elbow, rubbed his eyes, then spoke to hi
horse, and finally walked to another part of the
qncamptisent
Brion, meantime, had left the corral, having
gIlen such directions as he deemed necessary for
the efety of all. The fatality attending his
mrch, weighed heavily upon his mind. As cap.
gaa, orparisa l he was responsible for the safe.
couridiefte;party n',the trapping grounds.
Theft*ere-accidents and contingencies against
which he could not guard' but how should he
m     it appi  thus'to his employers? Would
noit hisIbadership be faulted by those whosepay'
he received! T Woultheynot call his courage
dt perspiea lty1n question, when it was kaown
'that'Itheir enterprise was' iii danger of total fail-


REDPATH.                           37

36                      R~prATH.

ure through the agency of a single savage, arm-
ed, as it would seem, with a bow and arrow?
The partisan was ready to pluck out his hair
with vexation. As he had stated t9 Buckeye,
he was mortified and humiliated beyond mea-
sure. It made his cheeks redden with shame to
anticipate, even, being thoughtweak and pusil-
lanimous. He believed it would certainly be
said that he was wanting in energy, promptness
and foresight. What a thing to be said of Ben
Brion-a man who had been on the trail ever
since he left school, a mere boy !
He paced slowly about the encampment, far
enough from it not to be seen.
"Perchance," he said, to himself, "my own
brain may be pierced by the shaft of this secret
foe. Be it thus ; I alone will expose myself to
his aim this night. If he, has the temerity to
approach one whose eyes are quick to trace a
trail, and whose ears are educated ,to hear an
enemy, let him look to it; he may perhaps re-
gret his boldness! Ah, I am forgetting his fatal
skill, his deadly cunning !"
The partisan sighed, and thought of Mignon.
" It might have been-itmight heve been !"
he added, in a low tone, that savored much of
sadness. What it was that "might have been"
he did not say, but instantly shaking off his
dreaminess, began to act the keen and watchful
scout, a thing which a sojourn of over, ten years
in the mountains had rendered easy, ,n4 which,
hitherto, had been attended with a kind of plea-
sure ; but, this was before he met Mignon, and
lost his heart, since which event he. had experi-
euced less happiness in the practice of his wan-
dering trade., Mignon followed him everywhere;
Mignon was, tireless in pursuing hin; Mignon
was with him in his dresins; she was  fair but
eyer present spirit, that could not be laid.
The realization of all this revealed the moun-
taineer to himself in a new light. He had not
supposed it quite possible;thahetagpgdbe capti-
vated by a pretty fage, and so enslaved by the.
charming conqueror; it was a new revelation,,
an hitherto unread page in i4 ownaracter,
He believed his passion hqppeis, andeot:94ny
hopeless but fooligh, extremely., ,He didnot ex.
peet to see Mignon agnin an4.it was ngagess tp
cherish her resembinnc sp fondy.
,Although reflpetigps likthes9w i, deeming.
through Brion's brain,,it did notdyertli fsom
his duty; he kept his daggeroug*lgils VO  fir
nesp and skill, exposing Ihel thusvolutarily
to be faithful to his trust, and save those under

his direction. Men are apt to think soberly and
rationally in the silence and quietude of night,
and it was thus with the partisan. He asked
what or who it was that he feared; or, more
properly, that threatened the destruction ofhis
trappers and hunters. He had heard the name
of Redpath spoken often in the mountains, while
encamped by lonely streams and distant soli-
tudes ; sturdy veterans had recounted his deeds,
while friendly Indians told of his cunning, attri'
buting hissuccess to the interposition of Ma-
chinito-the bad spirit; but how much of this did
he credit?  What had happened under his own
observation to prove that these tales were not
without foundation; that there was really truth
in what mountain rumor had been telling so
long in the defiles and passes?  Brion consid-
ered the subject from various points, concluding
this ordeal of self-examination by confessing a
belief in Redpath. It was midnight when he
reached that ultimatum. The stillness of the
night had remained unbroken, save by the bark
of the prairie dog, or the howl of the wolf-
those constant attendants of the mountaineer in
his lengthened pilgrimages across a mighty coun-
try ; where, in the revelations of yearsPsman
cities are to rise, and the genius of civihation
is to walk with foot untiring-.
The partisan stood with his head thrown for-
ward, all his senses awake to detect the slightest
sound. An owl emitted its ominous cry, which,
echo caught and prolonged in a series of mourn-
ful wailings, which died away in the valleys and
far-off passes.
"Ah !" exclaimed Brion, without changing
his position.
He waited for something-apparently the re-
petition of the cry,-but it came'not. He cast
his eyes toirard the encampmertt; the -moon-
beadis Wereelying tranquilly upon it ; the stars
twinkled overhead serenely, as if bidding the
weary to forget care and sleep.
Brions attention was yet fixed on the en-
campruent, when- oksaw a man leaving the car-
rol.. Had he walked ont boldly and carelessly,
the :paitisa's Suspicions would not have been'
aroused; but he-stole outas a thief might leave
the scene of his depredations.
"Monest men 4p pot move in that way," mut-
tered Brion..
At that momept the owl -hooted again, more
logd aut4auily ta before.. Clear of the cor-
ral, the man advanced cautiously toward the
spot where the mountaineer was. standing ; the

latter instantly changed his position, screening
himself behind the trunk of a cypress. It was
Dorelle who approached, as Brion very 'soon
discovered.
"Yes, Monsieur Dorelle, you are the one I
intended to watch," thought the hunter, as the
Frenchman passed his hiding-place. Brion fol-
lowed him toward the Wind River range, from
the margin of the prairie upon which his camp
had been pitched, into a tract of country cut up
by gulleys, broken by sharp hills, covered with
pinon, stunted oaks and aspen.
Dorelle stopped and remained motionless for
several minutes. Presently the owl hooted ;
Dorelle barked like a prairie dog, and went on.
The cry of the owl came from a canon, not far
beyond ; it was toward the canon that Dorelle
hastened.
"Now," mused Brion, " we will learn what
this signalizing is for."
The ground between them and the canon was
soon traversed. Dorelle barked again, and the
owl hooted but a few paces from him.
" Is it you, Gardette ?" asked Dorelle.
"It is I, Monsieur Mariot," replied Gar-
dette, or Beavertaker, as we shall prefer to call
him, in honor to his Indian relatives.
"Ah," exclaimed Brion, again-an innocent
exclamation that he was in the habit of using
when surprised ; for the partisan never employ-
ed oaths, even when excited.
Mariot and Beavertaker advanced and met.
"I have many things to inquire about," said
the former. "How do yo~u succeed with the
Blackfeet ?"
"At first I was looked upon with distrust, but
my wife at length restored confidence ; so you
see it is a good thing to have an Indian wife,
though one be but half an Indian."
"Well ?" said Mariot, impatiently.
"A party of one hundred young warriors are
already on the alert, and it will be strange indeed
if-"
The remainder of the sentence was spoken in
a tone so low that Brion could not hear it ; he
crept nearer.
"Be sure that you make no mistake, for my
own party are encamped in a valley not far
below us."
" Diable, that is bad, for all is fish that comes
to their net-the Blackfeet I mean. If they
should strike their trail, I could not restrain
them. 1 have seen Ravenelaw, a chief of great
consequence ; but he dislikes me, and is too
3

proud to be advised or led by one with white
blood in his veins. I spoke of Redpath ; but
my curiosity provoked him; he frowned and
looked dangerous, and in a terrible voice told
me to begone, and put a bridle on my tongue;
since that I have not dared to speak the name of
Redpath."
" Nor is there need ; he is already upon the
trail, doing his fearful work. Three have been
stricken and more will follow. Discontent is in
the camp-the expedition will fail."
"Ah !" said Brion.
"Did you hear anything?" asked Beavertaker.
Mariot said no.
"Diable ! can this be true, Monsieur Mariot ?"
" Can what be true ?"
" That Redpath is on the 'trail of Brion's
brigade."
" Mon Dieu, it is a fact ! He kills with a
steel arrow which pierces the brain. It is ter-
rible, but does my work-it cripples the power
of that accursed company that threatens to ruin
the house of Bellmar and Mariot."
" You run some risk yourself," said Beaver-
taker.
" I know it, therefore my stay with the band
will be short. I have already sprung my mine
on the discontented ones. I have worked on
their fears and their cupidity. I shall take away
at least a dozen of his men, which will be a se-
vere blow. Meantime, have your warriors con-
cealed in the canon which you named wgen I
saw you before, and-"
"I understand," said the half-breed.
" They have some good horses-a fact which
it would be well to let your red devils know."
" They shall be stolen," replied Beavertaker.
"They may, perchance, cacltq some of their
goods ?"
" We will open the cache."
"They, possibly, may wish to fight ?"
"We will fight them, monsieur."
Foudre I that is as it should be. Now I
I must see my band of trappers and hunters."
"Did you come with them?" -
"No, with a small company of United States
soldiers, who were sent to Fort Laramie, I found
Kincaid, whobore me company till this morn-
ing, or, rather till yesterday morning, as it is
now past midnight--and by whose means I have
held communication with the captain of my
band. I shall meet Kincaid at the Red Butles,
where he is at this moment, probably, awaiting
me with two horses."

s°
1


.REDPATH.

After farther conversation, Pierre Mariot lef
the canon, followed by Brion, who felt too much
interest in his movements to dismiss him from
farther espionage. Kincaid was with the horse
at the specified place, and the wo thy pair rod
away, together. Fortunately for 'e partisan
the ground was of such a nature that they could
not proceed very fast, so that he kept in sight
of them without much exertion. They convers
ed but little, and Brion could not hear what they
said. They finally reached the valley near
which Beavertaker found Ravenclaw, as related
in another chapter. Entering it, the mountain-
eer saw the fires of an encampment. The camp
was large, extending some rods along the valley,
numbering, he judged, by a casual survey, one
hundred persons, or even more.
The horses and pack-mules of the party were
side-lined and quietly feeding within eighty yards
of the band; and it was there that Mariot stop-
ped, sending forth Kincaid to request Captain
Callard, the leader, to come to him. While
Pierre was waiting, Brion placed himself in a
position to hear to the best advantage, with the
least danger of discovery. The rival partisan
came, when the same matters were talked of that
had been discussed by the half-breed. ' Those
topics having been duly considered, Callard
broached another, which had the merit of nov-
elty, and interested Brion equally as much.
" There is one circumstance to which I must
call your attention," said Callard. "A youth
joined us at Fort Leavenworth, whose conduct
has been suspicious. Once, certainly, he has
had communication with Captain Brion's band,
and on several occasions has manifested a desire
to visit the camp of our rivals ; but he has been
so closely watched, that save in the instance I
have named, I do not think he has been able to
do much mischief, if such was his intention.'
Brion did not say "Ah I" but he thought it,
which answered his purpose.
"An informer among your men may do in-
calculable injury," said Mariot, earnestly.
" This is not all, 1%onsieur Mariot; it is said
by some in camp that this youth is a woman."
"Diable 1" exclaimed Mariot.
"Ah !" said Brion, in a whisper.
"A woman ?" added Pierre.
"A woman I" repeated Callard.
4' What the devil could send a woman among
you ?"'asked Mariot, angrily.
" It may have been love of adventure ; it
{may have been simply love."

t   "A woman ! love !  Callard, this is getting
romantic."
" Remember, that it is first to be known that
s the youth is a woman, and then whether she is
e in love, before we can judge if things are grow-
ing romantic."
"By what name is this 'youth called ?"
" Crevier."
" What is his deportment, generally ?"
" He is. singularly reserved-holds himself
aloof from the men, loves solitude, and his sole
companion is a colored man who attends him
like his shadow, treating him with very great
deference."
" The colored man is his servant, and appear-
ed with him in the first instance ?"
"Yes."
" What was his ostensible object in attaching
himself to your party ?"
" To join his father, he said, who has a trad-
ing house on the Yellow Stone. Fearful that
he might be a spy in the service of the American
Fur Company, I have kept a constant watch-on
his movements."
"I must see this Crevier; do me the favor to
ask him to come here."
Crevier soon appeared, followed by a stout
African. Brion recognized his youthful visitor,
and regretted more than ever his unfriendly
suspicions at the time of their first meeting. He
looked upon his comely face and slender figure
with new interest, doubting not but a woman's
heart was beating beneath that masculine garb.
CHAPTER VII.
IMPORTANT DISCOVERIES ARE MADE.
PIERRE MARIOT had dismounted and was
standing with his right arm on the saddle, his
face partially concealed from the eyes of the ap-
proaching youth by the horse's head. Crevier
advanced hesitatingly, the negro pressing closer-
to him as he drew near. The partisan was ner-
vously anxious to obtain a fair view of his fea-
tures-a fact showing an important change in
his feelings since the night Crevier sat by his
lonely fire.-
" It is indeed a woman," he said mentally.
Mariot was no less anxious to see the youth,
and mark his bearing.
" Well, sir," said Pierre, abruptly, "I have
sent for you to ask a few questions concerning
your father's trading-house on the Yellow Stone
River."

Crevier recoiled at the sound of Mariot's voice,
and was much agitated. - The negro whispered
to him, which in some degree restored his self-
possession.
The partisan noticed that Mariot evinced
surprise, which betrayed itself in his tones.
"Why do you wish to question me ?" asked
Crevier, with some trepidation.
."For the object I have stated."
" What if I refuse to answer them ?" Crevier
resumed.
"I shall be obliged to compel you, possibly."
"'Member dis chile am here !" said the Afri-
can to Crevier, looking menacingly at Mariot.
"Let that nigger be silent !" added Mariot,
sternly.
"He has a right to speak, I think ; he is not
in your employ, and therefore not responsible to
you, but to myself alone," continued Crevier,
with spirit.
"Dat am 'zactly it !" quoth Bhlaam, whose
name had the merit of being scriptural.
" Captain Callard, will you rap that nigger
over the head," said Mariot.
Captain Callard manifested a disposition to
rap Balaam  over the head, but that nigger
doubled a very large fist and, held it so Callard
could see it, which had the desired effect to re-
strain his enthusiasm.
"Do you know, sir," Mariot continued, ad-
dressing Crevier, " that I'm disposed to con-
sider you a spy in the employ of the American
Fur Company ?"
" You are at liberty to think so," was the
quiet rejoinder.
"Captain Callard, it will be necessary that
this young man by severely punished, as an ex-
ample to others."-
" That is my opinion, Monsieur Mariot."
The partisan was observing Mariot as well as
his position would allow, and plainly perceived
that he was endeavoring to terrify Crevier and
throw him off his guard ; but if that was his in-
tention, he failed-the youth remained un-
daunted.,
" How are, spies usually punished, captain ?"
" 0 with death, monsieui-; always." .
" That was my impression.   What is this
black man's name?"
"Balaam," said Callard.
" Well, Balaam will have to suffer with his
master.
In answer to this consoling information, Ba-
laam looked at the moon and winked assiduously.

" Leave me a few moments with this young
man, captain, and take the nigger with you."
" Come, Balaam," said Callard.
"I stays with massa, allers," replied Balaam,
firmly.
"But I wish you to go," said Mariot.
"An'. I wish" to stay where I is," returned
Balaam, pertinaciously.
The captain approached him with the inten-
tion of laying his right hand upon his shoulder
to lead him awayr; but Balaam assumed such a
belligerent attitude that he deemed it prudent to
forego his purpose and walk off without him.
"This is all very strange," said Mariot, when
the captain was out of hearing.
"What do you refer to ?" asked Crevier, in
a faltering voice.
"It is useless to wear the mask longer, Mad-
emoiselle Mignon."~
"My secret is - discovered ; alas !" cried the
youth.
"0, it required but a glance to penetrate your
disguise. He that loves, has sharp eyes," Ma-
riot rejoined, with something of triumph in his
manner.
" Let me entreat that you will not beti4y me,
Monsieur Mariot ?" said Mignon, in supplicat-
ing tones.
"Ah, Mignon, had it been for my sake, I
should be the happiest of men ; but I dare not
flatter myself that such is the case ?" said Pierre,
softly.
" For his sake 1" muttered Brion.
"Do not flatter yourself too much, monsieur."
"Then you had another object in-view ?"
"Your vanity is without parallel !"
"You persist in averring that you have not
regretted-that is, that you have' not changed
your mind in regard-?'
" To your proposal !"
"Yes."
"I should hate myself "if I had no nobler ob-
ject in view, Monsieur Pierre 1"
"And very properly, too,"- quoth Brion to
himself, whose heart was beating violently.
"Diable ! you are the same. I had hoped-"
" That I had repented."
" Precisely."
"But you see I have not ?".
" Do you know, Mademoiselle Bellmar, that
this frankness may injure you ?"
"Explain."
"Do you not perceive that you are in my
power?"

388

REDPATH.

39

r


40                       BEDPAT.

" 0, you are there !"
" Yes, I command here. I sued at Westport."
"I forgot for the instant that I was talking to
a villain," replied Mignon, with dignity.
"Excellent !" quoth the partisan. " She has
him there I"
"Mignon, reflect upon your situation. I have
power to protect you-to keep your secret, to
preserve you from ridicule."
"And if you were a gentleman, you would do
so unconditionally."
"That your conduct has been bold and un-
maidenly, I think you must own; with such a
precedent before me, I may venture to be bold
and unmanly. What have you to answer to
such logic ?"
" Humanly you are ; but if by boldness you
mean physical courage, I should say you will
never be bold."
"Be sarcastic, if you will; yet it seems to
me that we meet under circumstances in which
you would do well to abate your pride and hold
humbler language. You are at present so sit-
uated, as to be under my authority."
" I do not acknowledge your authority. You
cannotwithout an unwarrantable usurpation of
power restrain my actions, or control my move-
ments."                     -
" Your personal comfort shall be attended to
as far as my means will allow, and you shall be
treated with respect by my men; but you must
know that you are not at liberty to leave the
party."
" Dare you thus presume to take from me my
freedom ? By what right, Monsieur Mariot, do
you thus assume authority over me ?"
" By the right of might."
"That is well answered; but hear my pro-
test. I will not submit to your tyranny. There
must be men of honor in your party. I will
throw myself upon their generosity ; they will
protect me."
"These men are in my pay."
"And my father's, too; you forget that you
are the junior partner!"
"I remember everything that I wish to re-
member, Mademoiselle Bellmar."
"A rare faculty."
"In the name ofall that is wild and marvel-
lous, tell me your motive for unsexing yourself,
and running such a quixotic career ?"
" That is a'secret in my own keeping, fortu-
nately."
" Your motive must have been extraordinary.

Your father will lose his reason when he hears
of this ?"
" God avert such a calamity !" exclaimed Mig-
non, with fervor.
"You do well to invoke the name of God
after committing this fatal error ! You should
have reflected and deported yourself as becomes
one of your sex and age. But this mountain
pilgrimage, I'll wager my reputation, is all for
love !"
"Don't wager your reputation, Monsieur
Pierre-the stake is too great !"-
"You sustain your part bravely, I'll admit;
but be assured I'll probe your secret to the bot-
tom. Ah, Mignon, the time will come when you
shall redden with shame at the sound of my
voice, it shall so remind you of your folly.".
" It reminds me of everything absurd at this
moment."
Balaam rubbed his hands and laughed. Ma-
riot bit his lip with vexation, and called Callard,
who was waiting his pleasure, at the nearest fire.
He came, and with him two persons-Grenier
and Kincaid.
"Men," said Mariot, "you are to watch this'
youth, this Monsieur Crevier, and his servant,
and see that- they do not leave the party. I
have special reasons for wishing them to remain
with us."
Callard bowed and smiled.
" Captain," said Mignon, gently, "I hope we
shall be friends ?"
" I-I trust so," responded Callard, consider-
ably embarrassed.
" Here is my hand,. captain," she added, ex-
tejiding that little member with charming grace
to the leader, who could not refuse the tempting
offer; while Pierre beheld the demonstration
with ill-concealed anger and jealousy.
"And yet, mad-Mr. Crevier, I mean-I ex-
pect I shall be obliged to restrict you to certain
limits ; but my authority shall be mildly exert-
ed, believe me."
" Beware, captain," said Pierre, with a forced
smile. "You're upon dangerous ground."
Mariot had advanced a little, and now stood
two paces in front of his horse, with the bridle
upon his arm. Callard, Kincaid and Grenier
were at his right, at the distance of three or four
yards, while Mignon and Balaam were on the
left. Brion occupied a position to see the par-
ties very well. What had just passed between
the captain and Mignon did not escape his no-
tice, but gave a painful sensation which was

REDPATH

new to him. Possibly it was for Callard that
she left a happy home to tempt the dangers and
hardships of the mountain. Although theidea
was unpleasant~ for a moment, he really envied
the captain.
"Fortunate man," he murmured. "Fortu-
nate man ; you have pressed that little hand."
The partisan's brow was clouded; sorrow and
indignation were contending within. At one
moment his limbs seemed losing their strength ;
at another he appeared to be suffocating with
some new malady that pressed his heart from
his chest to his throat. He bent forward that
not a word might escape him, so intensely inter-
esting were the developments. Mariot turned
to Grenier and said :
" I suppose you are ready to render an ac-
count of what you have done ?"
Grenier was about to reply, when some object
whistled through the air. Grenier threw up his
arms, rolled his eyes wildly, and fell upon his
face. There were simultaneous cries of aston-
ishment. The long, smoothly-wrought shaft of
an arrow protruded from Grenicr's head.
Mariot proceeded from the spot 'in absolute
terror, as if expecting to feel the point of the
steel bolt in his own brain.      -
" Mon Dieu !" he cried, with a shudder.
"Pierre Mariot," exclaimed Mignon, pointing
-at Grenier, "read your destiny ; behold how
Heaven will punish your evil deeds !"
"Doomed !" muttered Kincaid, despairingly,
dropping his chin upon his breast, while Callard,
with more presence of mind, sprang into the ad-
joining thicket, rifle in hand.
" Come back," shouted Mariot; but Callard
was already in the -bushes. It was fortunate
for Brion that the captain turned to the northern
instead of the western side, for it was frotn that
quarter that the arrow had apparently been pro-
jected. After beating about in the thicket a few
minutes, Callard returned, having seen no enemy.
" Look at your misguided instrument, and
tell me if you are prepared to go as suddenly ?"
said Mignon to Pierre, warningly.
"Instrument !" repeated IMariot, with  a
quickness that proved she had touched a sensi-
tive spot. " You know too much, Mignon!"
"Now would it not be singular, Monsieur
Mariot, if you should meet the fate of the man
at our feet," she resumed, impressively.
Pierre looked at the dead man and breathed
heavily ; an indefinable awe was tugging at his
heart-a phantom hand menaced him.

41

Callard attempted to draw the ' arrow from
Grenier's head; but it broke close to the skull,
the steel point remaining firmly embedded in the
brain.
Mignon and Balaam walked toward the en-
campment ; Mariot followed in three minutes-
the camp was astir, hunters and trappers run-
ning to the place where Grenier had fallen.
The partisan hurried away from the locality
much excited by what he had seen and heard.
Indeed, it was to him a night of startling reve-
lations; but being of 4 strong, well-balanced
mind, he regained his wonted calmness-to ap-
pearance-before he reached the encampment of
his band.
Buckeye met him outside the corral, where he
had been impatiently awaiting him.
"By the beard of Joe Smith!" he exclaimed,
"I've a nice bone for you to pick,iand have been
waitin' to throw it to you for more than three
hours."
" Well, give it a toss-I will catch it," quoth
Brion.
"You'll growl over it, I'll warrant."
" I promise not to bite."
" Well, here it is; there's mutiny in the camp
-the trappin' business is at a discount, and gold
huntin' in the Aztec kentry is at a premium."
"Ah !"
"Jes' so, cap'n, I reckon."
" Who is at the head of the new enterprise ?"
"Headley, of course ; but that new feller, the
Frenchman, sprung the trap on,'em."
" Why, Headley apologized for his conduct ?"
"Perhaps he will agin; comes kind of nat'ral
to him, don't it ?"
"I, too, have made discoveries, Buckeye."
" Open your pack."
" If I possess any considerable tact in reading
human character, you are an honest man. May
I reckon upon your friendship and assistance ?"
" By the beard of Joe Smith, yes ! When I
forgit to treat jou like a friend and brother, may
the arrow of Redpath pierce my brain !"
" You are sincere, and I will make you the
repository of important matters. It will be a
relief to share the secrets of the night with one
whom I am sure will not betray me."
The partisan then narrated the incidents al-
ready placed before the reader, reserving to him-
self the privilege of representing Mignon in a
way as favorable to her as the case would pos-
sibly admit. Of his passion' for her he said
nothing ; indeed, he was not willing to acknowl-


42

REDPATH.

REDPATH.

edge the existence of such a sentiment, even to
himself; and the pains he took to conceal it
served to awaken suspicions in the mind of the
trapper, and point to the truth.
"A reg'lar conspiracy ; very curious consarn ;
lucky thing that you watched Monsieur Mariot.
I concluded there was sumthin' wicked in him
while I lay liseenin' among the packs and sad-
dles to his grand talk about gold diskiveries, and
the castle of Montezuma, which is a humbug.
The villain has used a good deal of nat'ral cnn-
nin' in layin' his plans, but the tables may be
turned on him; notwithstandin'. The heathen
riptile with the bow is arter him, anid he'll leave
some of his men behind him, even as you have.
The divil takes care of his own, it is said ; -if it
wasn't so, we might expect to hear some day
that Monsieur Mariot had felt the sharp p'int of
the steel arrow."
"He will return before morning, hoping his
absence has not been noticed," said Brion, very
earnestly.
" He will come back to conduct Headley and-
his friends to the Casa Montezuma, and the
land of treasure. How shall you receive him,
cap'n"?"
"I have not matured my plan, yet. Indeed,
I am much disturbed and confused by the extra-
ordinary things that have-providentially, let
me believe-fallen under my observation.  I
need time to reflect-to resolve on a course of
conduct that shall be the most judicious, the best
for my employers, my men, and lastly myself;
for self, friend Buckeye, in an affair like this,
ought to come last, and not be made to occupy
the first place in my thoughts. Danger encir-
cles me like a belt ; but men have been in more
precarious positions, and lived to tell the story
of their escape ; thus may it be with me. There
are some veterans in my party that I can rely
on; they will not fail me, I trust, in an emer-
gency. We can deal with the Blackfeet war-
riors. A surprise would be disastrous, extreme-
ly ; but that peril is now comparatively small.
To know an enemy's order of battle is to know
how to meet him. With your aid, it will be
difficult for a war party of an hundred to ap-
.proach our camp without discovery. I count
you a dozen ordinary men; because you have
much experience in Indian policy, and know
how to look through the double sights."
" That's a compliment I'm proud of, insomuch
as it wasn't said by a common man by way of
flattery. Cap'n, I am at your orders from this

minute ; tell me to do this or that, to'reconnoi-
tre, to follow trail, to watch fob an enemy by
night, to fight till the last gasp, and I'll do it
without questions. It's an offer I never made
afore, but by the beard of Joe Snmith, there's
sumthin' in ye I like."
The partisan smiled pleasantly and held out
his hand. buckeye gave it a rough and hearty
grasp, thus sealing the friendly compact which
was to last as long as the lives of the parties.
It is now time that we return to 1)Iignon, and
take a casual glance at the passage of events
somewhat in their regular order. Mariot speed-
ily made Bellmar acquainted with the fact that
Mademoiselle had repudiated the long talked-of
alliance. That gentleman received the informa-
tion with more calmness than he had anticipated.
He told Pierre to be patient ; he would see his
daughter ; he trusted the matter would be satis-
factorily arranged ; there was no need of ex-
citement; he had skill to manage it properly.
Mariot was led to hope in the ultimate surren-
der of the fair citadel; we will learn how he
prospered.
Monsieur Bellmar at length broached the sub-
ject gently to Mignon, who demanded to know
why he was desirous of such a union. He're-
plied that he was anxious for such a consumma-
tion for several reasons.
"Is Monsieur Mariot a man of honor ?" she
asked.
Bellmar was confused.
"As much so, perhaps, as the average of man-
kind," he answered.
"Is he possessed of even common honesty ?"
resumed Mignon, taking her father's hand.
"What a strange question, Mignon," he re-
turned, evasively.
"Do you consult my happiness, only, in this
alliance ?" she demanded.
" What else should I consult ?"
" Interest-worldly interest, possibly."
" Such a marriage would be advantageous in
a pecuniary point of view, I admit."
" Do you fear his anger in case of my refu-
sal ?"
"Pierre, you remember, inherited his father's
property, which was worth at his decease far
more than mine; Pierre wished to enlarge our
business when he. succeeded his father in the
house, and having considerable money, the say-
ings of my late partner, he made an investment
of capital beyond my means, so that, in truth, I

am his debtor to a large amount, which might
make it exceedingly awkward, should he wish
for a dissolution of the house of Bellmar &amp;
Mariot."
"But all your resources are. not invested ;
during the many years of your labors, you must
have amassed enough to ensure you a com-
petence ?"
"I have laid by something for you, my child,
which you shall have."
"Well, then, my father, let us be content.
Pierre is a villain, 4and I will not consent to be
united to a bad man. Whenever you are clos-
eted with him you should pray, 'Lead me not
into temptation, but deliver me from all evil."'
"One would think you had been listening !"
he exclaimed, with displeasure.     1 *1
"And correctly, too ; for I happened to be in
the room adjoining the library at the time of your
interview with Pierre in regard to the Ameri-
can Fur Company."
"And-you heard all !" criedBellmar, excited.
"All, my father. And I heard also, what
you did not-the development of his scheme."
" The following day with three men
"Yes. Can you now say-to me, 'My daugh-
ter, I wish you to marry Monsieur Mariot,,for
he is a worthy man?'
Bellmar pressed his hands to his forehead
and made no answer.
Mignon related circumstantially all that had
transpired at the interview between Mariot, Gre-
nier, Kincaid and Gardette, to which her audi-
tor listened without once looking at her, or
changing his attitude.
" Is all this villany to transpire without one
effort to prevent it ?" Mignon asked, with in-
genuous warmth, when    the narration was
completed.
" What can be done ? Mariot will act as he
pleases," said Bellmar.'
"What, will you suffer yourself to be com-
promised in character by the machinations of a
bad man ! Do you not see that his evil schem-
ing must sooner or later become known ? Too
many persons have his secrets in possession,
each of whom would betray him for a few dol-
lars. Are you then to connive at murder, my
dear father? Are you to be the. accomplice of
assassins?"
Mignon spoke earnestly, and Bellmar began
to be startled by her representations.
"Indeed, you move me, Mignon. I had not
considered the subject in a light so serious."'

"Your hairs, my father, are already silvery ;
would you add crime to age, and die with the
dark mark of Cain upon your brow ? Act while
there is time, I entreat of you I"
"I am powerless,.powerless! .Mariot has sent
his emissaries ; they are far upon their way. I
cannot overtake them, if I wbuld ; for you know.
Mignon, that the fire and energy of youth de-
parted years ago. I regret what he has done,
extremely; his plans are both rash and wicked,
Mon Dieu, my child, I am troubled."
"Now you speak according to the dictates of.
nature and religion, and your voice.is pleasant.
Ah, if you listen to Pierre, you will leave me but
a legacy of infamy !"
"But what can I do, girl ?"
" Dissolve all connection with Mariot, even
at a great- pecuniary sacrifice. Let him with-
draw his capital-suffer him to do his worst-
the law will protect you ; you will be a gainer to
rid yourself of him at any price."
"I believe that is the truth, Mignon. World-
ly interests may have blinded my eyes, but do
you think I am a very bad man at heart, my
daughter ?"
"0 no, at heart you are good ; therefore you
should not be unequally yoked with an unbe-
liever in human-virtue, a contemner of honesty,
a scoffer at, religion, an apostate from honor.
Say you will try to save Brion's party from
destruction, and let the house of Bellmar &amp;
Mariot fall? How your gray hairs would look
at the bar of justice; how your head would
droop with shame under the heavy pressure of
guilt !"
"Perhaps Mariot will relent."
" But you have said it is already too late ; he
has sent hired assassins to dog the honest parti-
san, to cut off men engaged in a lawful calling."
" Parbleu ! woman's instincts are said to be
quick and true ; come, what shall I do ?"
"You will trust it to me ?"'
" I will trust it to you."
"And you will allow me money, and what-
ever I may wish."
"I will allow you money, and whatever you
may wish."
Mignon embraced her father, who went on to
say that business would compel him to go to St.
Louis, to be absent three weeks; but he trusted
in her discretion, having no fears that she would
be guilty of follies.
" Your mind," he continued, "is fertile in ex-
pedients, while mine, Mignon, has lost the great-

e-ft

43

"


44                      BEDPATH.

er part of its strength and vigor. I am willing,
I am more than willing,-I am anxious that
Pierre's designs should be thwarted.'. But Brion
has gone, .and I know not where he is to be
found. 'Whetlher his men are at Fort Leaven-
worth or on the way, I know not. We hoped
our party would be in advance of him, but his
activity has outdone us. If Brion is at Fort
Leavenworth, a faithful messenger might be
sent to warn him to be on his guard-without
compromising myself or Mariot. A few vague
hints judiciously thrown out would be sufficient,
without calling names, or indicating the precise
nature of the danger."
"Was not Captain Brion here a week ago ?"
"Yes, he was after men; but most of them
being already engaged by me, he left the same
day, and since that time has passed through all
the frontier towns of any note, in search of hunt-
ers and trappers. And this is why it is so dif-
ficult to find him."
" When will your band be ready to start ?"
"In ten days."
"Numbering how many men ?"
"One hundred." ,
"And commanded by-",
" Captain Callard."
The foregoing conversation led to that extra-
ordinary resolution which resulted in the pil-
grimage of Mignon, in male attire, to the west-
ern wilds. She hoped to find the partisan at
Fort Leavenworth, make such communication
as she might without directing suspicion toward
-her father, and return without a protracted ab-
sence. She waited her father's departure with
impatience, that she might put her plan into ex-
ecution, but he delayed it day after day. Ten
days elapsed before he set out for St. Louis,
and even then Callard had not secured his com-
plement of men.
Mignon abandoned the expectation of finding
Brion at Fort Leavenworth, so much time had
passed since he left Westport-therefore deter-
mined upon that course of conduct which finally
introduced her to the reader on the prairies.
Having once formed the project, she set about
preliminary operations with an earnestness that
conquered obstacles, and a foresight that would
not have been discreditable to a veteran trapper.
Her perspicacity owed much of its acuteness,
however, to observation, derived from the asso-
ciations which her father's business naturally
threw around her. From her earliest recollec-
tions she had seen hunters and trappers, heard

their tales of adventure ; they were a class whose
habits and peculiarities were most familiar. She
knew the nature of the perils that attended them
in their long excursions, amid the rugged and
snowy mountains, what kind of an outfit they
needed, their mode of travelling and defence,
and lastly how, when, and where they practised
their trade.
Balaam was a faithful servant, who had been
many years in the family. It was the particular
wish of Madame Bellma', at the time of her de-
cease, which was when Mignon was but a child,
that Balaam should always be considered a mein-
ber of the household and be treated with kind-
ness, which desire had been strictly observed and
respected. Balaam was not, as the reader may
be inclined to conjecture, feeble and in his do-
tage, but robust, and a giant in strength. At-
fifty years, with power undiminished by hard-
ship and abuse, he was at the best period of his
manhood. Mignon found in him an able coad-
jutor-after she had overcome his scruples, and
silenced his objections-for Balaam had twice
been to Bellmar's trading-house in the country
of the Nez Perces.
When her preparations were completed, she
proceeded to Fort Leavenworth, accompanied
by this faithful friend and servant. Brion had
departed.
The description of the slender youth, in the
opening chapter, precludes the necessity of de-
scribing Mignon's appearance when she joined
the trappers at Fort Leavenworth. Previous to
starting, she wrote an affectionate letter for her
father-who two days before had left for St.
Louis, placing it where he would be sure to find
it. The advent of Mignon among the hunters
was looked upon by Callard with suspicion;
she soon perceived that she was watched, and
deprecated from her heart that selfish interest
that fills the human soul with distrust.
"Balaam," said Mignon, "is there not some-
thing you wish to say to me ?"
" Dar is, Massa Crevier," replied Balaam.
" Well, there is no one in hearing ; proceed."
" Does ye see dat fire ober dar ?"  -
"Yes, Balaam."
" Whose fire dat is, ye spect ?"
"Mignon answered that she could form no
supposition, whatever."
Balaam informed her that Captain Brion
was encamped there for the night.
"Alone ?" inquired Mignon.

,,

Balaam replied in the affirmative, explaining
that his party were in advance, he having left
Fort Leavenworth but a few hours before Callard
began his march.
" I must speak to Captain Brion," added
Mignon.
"Dat am diffikilt," quoth Balaam,
" Do you think we are watched ?"
" Ebry minute, Missy Mignon ?"
"Hush, call me Master Crevier. I will put
the matter to the test. I will walk leisurely'
from the camp, and you will remain here. If
I need you, I 'will discharge my rifle, the use of
which you have so well taught me. If I am fol-
lowed, you will be sure to observe the circum-
stance."
The fire to which Balaam had cited Mignon's
attention, was distant nearly half a mile, but on
account of an intervening valley did not seem
half so far.
She left the encampment, advancing with
mingled emotions oftimidity and heroism. - How
novel was her situation! What unfriendly con-
structions her conduct might bear ! But she
arose superior to weakness ; she felt a strength
that surprised herself, and prayed that those
might be forgiven whose unhappy temperament
it is to think evil of others. She would save her
aged father from becoming partaker of another's
sins, from sharing another's crime. That was
just-that was praiseworthy-that was right-
and all the. sophistry in the world could not
make right wrong. She grew strong in moral
power,'a shield of protection was over, above,
around her. Her fears were dispelled by the
strength of virtue, and the consciousness of
truth.
Mignon heard steps, and looking around; saw
Captain Callard followingher. She paused upon
a gentle eminence, the same where she first ap-
peared to the reader. It has been shown how
she reached the bivouac of Brion, meeting with
a reception from that worthy man,.which, though
civil, was not cordial.
Mignon's calmness was severely shaken by'
the trapper's coldness, which caused her to re-
alize but too sensibly the peculiar awkwardness
of her position. To conceal her feelings, she as-
sumed that thoughtful, abstracted air which we
noted in the, proper place, such a mood giving
her a natural pretext for averting her face from
the mountaineer. She had flattered herself that
she could meet Brion unshrinkingly, and warn
him of the danger impending without effort or

hesitation ; but now she found herself over-
whelmed by innumerable scruples, and a diffi-
dence quite unaccountable.
She was observed, too ; Callard was behind a
tree, not fifty yards distant ; he showed -himself
to Mignon, with his right forefinger upon his
lips, and his left held up in menace ; this pan-
tomime signified that she should be silent. She
was cruelly embarrassed; but a remarkable
power of self-control kept her outwardly calm.
She resolved not to be thwarted ; when she had
sufficient command over her voice, she said,
without changing her meditative attitude or
expression :
" captain Brion, there is danger near you;
I have come to put you upon your guard ; but
I am watched; a man behind yonder tree is,
almost near enough to hear my voice."
Mignon waited for a response ;'the mountain-
eer was already asleep, while Captain Callard
was drawing nearer. She arose to go, when to
her horror, she discovered a serpent winding its
unsightly body into a coil, three paces from the
partisan's head. To seize a long fagot and dis-
patch the loathsome creature, was the work of a
moment only; she marvelled at her own promp-
titude and boldness as soon as the deed was ac-
complished. Excited and trembling she hurried
from the spot to meet Balaam who was approach=
ing. Eluding Callard, she returned to the en-
campment, glad that her feeble hand had been
the instrument of Providence in the preserva-
tion of the trapper.
It was after this partial failure that Mignon
resolved on another experiment. As has been
anticipated, it was through her agency that the
hatchet had been left where it would fall into
the hands of Brion, the. dumb bearer of a con-
cealed message. Balaam had been trusted with
that commission, and despite the espionage of
Callard, succeeded in discharging it successfully
by adroit management. Mignon had enjoined
on him to be careful that a portion of the slip of
paper be left visible, that it might immediately
be seen by the finder ; an item which he so far
overlooked, that, as we have seen, it was sev-
eral days before it attracted the partisan's at-
tention. To mystify the latter, Balaam had
adopted the expedient of breaking the trail by
grasping a mammoth vine that hung pendant
from a tree, and swinging himself forward across
a small gully where the ground was soft; this
was why the trapper was baffled.
By a skilful manoeuvre, Mignon evaded the

REDPATH.


46                      REDFATH.

vigilance of Callard, after the two bands had
passed Fort Laramie, and joining the partisan,
conversed with him in the manner related, not
doubting but her warning had been read and
understood; or, at least sufficiently compre-
hended to make the captain so cautious as to
frustrate the designs of his enemies. She wish-
ed on that occasion to speak to him freely; but
unfortunately, she  confounded Buckeye' with
Gardette, the half breed, who was acting for
Mariot ; and hence her silence on the subject
ever uppermost in her thoughts.
While she was planning an expedient to rid
herself of his presence, Balaam appeared in the
distance, motioning her to return to the party,
inasmuch as her absence was exciting inquiry-
a series of signals previously agreed upon. We
are now ready to tell what happened to Mignon
after her unexpected interview with Monsieur
Mariot.
CHAPTER VIII.
MIGNON MEETS RAVENCLAW.
MIGNON   loved liberty.  Nothing could be
more repugnant to her feelings than the idea of
personal restraint, especially when exercised by
a man whose character she detested. To re-
main with the band and be subject to the au-
thority of Pierre Mariot, was a contingent
entirely abhorrent to her notion of her own
rights and privileges. It was also at variance
with her instinctive delicacy to be brought again
into contact with those who already knew or mis-
trusted her sex ; who could neither understand
her motives nor pity her confusion. To avoid be-
ing so awkwardly and- painfully placed-an ob-
ject, perchance, of rude comment and ridicule-
to evade Mariot's vigilance and escape his dom-
ination, became her ruling desire. In the- event
of success, should she throw herself upon the
protection of Brion, or attempt to return home
across the wide prairies, attended by Balaam
only ? The first was not without objections,
but it appeared most safe and feasible. Mignon
believed it would be best to act upon her deter-
mination promptly, while Mariot was still labor-
ing under surprise, before -he had artfully delib-
erated, arranged his plan of action, and system-
atized his espionage over her conduct.
During her pilgrimage, Mignon had nightly
been protected by a small tent, which Balaam
had provided for that purpose, and which hef
was expert in putting up and taking down.

47

REDPATH.

The tent had two compartments, in the smaller
of which slept Balaam, like a faithful watch-
dog, ever on the alert, ready to start up for her
defence at the first approach of danger. He kin-
dled and kept the fires also, when fires were
needful, cooking with skill, preparing the choic-
est cuts of venison for his adventurous young
mistress.
So it will hence be seen that Mignon passed
the time, when not on the march, quite by her-
self, apart from that motley mixture of men
composing Callard's band. The services of Ba-
laam were many and important. His advice
was always seasonable ; she trusted in his sa-
gacity, anticipating protection from his strong
arm in every emergency which might occur. He
was proud of her confidence, willing to make
any sacrifice that human creature could, to en-
sure her safety and comfort. Balaam was well
armed, and hardly it would fare with him who
should have the temerity to insult Mignon. H
was not wholly indebted to those deadly imple-
ments in vogue, for the means of assault and
vengeance, because nature had gifted him with
hands of remarkable ,strength, with which to
crush an - adversary, and administer corporeal
pain. Balaam was of a patient, genial disposi-
tion, but when a quarrel was forced upon him,
and his feelings were outraged, he was an antag-
onist greatly to be feared. Those so unfortunate
as to feel the stunning power of his fist, repented'
their rashness, and cared not to provoke his -ire
again.
Balaam was - consulted in reference- to the
emergency that had arisen. She explained to
him her reasons for not wishing to remain with
the party, which, in his view, were sufficiently
cogent ; indeed, her mere will would have been
considered imperative, without a single argu-
ment. She said to him:
"We can escape more readily to night than
to-morrow, or any subsequent period."
"Dat am a fack," quoth Balaam.
" Come, my friend," she continued, "how
shall it  be done ?"
" I want to know just where yer gwine when
yer. git away; dat's de question dat 'quires
splainin'."
"Perhaps I shall throw myself upon the pro-
tection of Captain Brion."
"De man you-"
" The man I-what, Balaam ?" said Mignon,
sharply, coloring.
"Nuffin of no consequence," replied Balaam.

"Don't 'sturb me; I'm tinkin' how it can be
done."
" I'll wait patiently."t
The African   remained  silent some five
minutes.t
"We shall want our bosses,"   he said, at
length.
Mignon assented.
" Well dis chile must crawl. out dar 'mongst
'em, cut de ' side-lines, and lead 'em off softly,
while you creep away in nuther direction."
" Yes, Balaam."
"Den I jines ye wid de losses, ober dar by
dem cotton-woods."
" Suppose you should be discovered ?"
" Dis cullod feller fight-git away. I'll meet
ye dare, sure, 'twixt dis and mornin'-pervidin'
you git dar."
"That I can do, believe me. You see I am
small-I can move quietly. Look out, and, ob-
serve what is going on."
Balaam did as bidden, reporting that most of
the party were gathered around, the dead body
of Grenier, but he could hear voices in Callard's
tent.
" The fate of that man was sudden and awful;
but I imagined I saw in his death the hand of
retributive justice," said Mignon.
" Redpath am about," said the black, in an
under tone.
" Yes, it would really seem that there is such
a personage; he was spoken of by that very man
as a fitting terror to unloose upon Captain Bri-
on's party, but his evil thought has reacted on
him ; yonder he lies lifeless, translated in a mo-
ment from this world to the other, with his sins
upon him-with his many unrepented sins weigh-
ing darkly upon him."
Mignon paused, arrested   possibly by the
thought that the same peril attended her, wher-
ever she might wander in the mountains.
" Did .you remark, Balaam, that the half-
breed was much affectedby fear'? I recognized
him immediately, as one of the three men in the
service of Mariot-one of the trio from whose
rudeness I was saved by the brave mountaineer.
Not long since I confounded him with another,
but who was a better man, undoubtedly."
"Dere, missy, I'se forgot sev'ral 'portant 'tic'
lars I" exclaimed Balaam, without heeding Mig-
non's last remarks. " Here's our tent and bag-
gage ; can't get 'long 'thout 'em."
"I know they are useful, but necessity com-
pels us to leave them."

The black looked round and shook his head--
equivalent to a declaration that he must have
them at any risk. Mignon gave him to under-
stand that she would confide the matter wholly
to his discretion, having unshaken faith in his
prudence.
"And now," she resumed, "is it not time for
me to go ?"
Balaam-went out and reconnoitred once more,
coming back very soon with the report that
there was a fair prospect of success, as the at-
tention of the band was still directed to the sub-
ject of Grenier's death; while Mariot and Cal-
lard were yet talking earnestly, as he learned,
by listening in the vicinity of the parties.
"I hate to have ye try it," said Balaam,
"'cause it's dangerous-like, and dars no known'
what'll happen; but if ye've made up yer mind
to it, why I s'pose ye must. De Lord knows
what'll come ob all dis, for I doesn't ; but I'll
stick to ye long as I've de breff ob life. Now
go and manage it de best ye can; and I'll watch
ye long as I can see ye."
Mignon left the tent ; a single glance over the
encampment assured her that the moment was
favorable. Moving quickly, her figure was soon
lost to Balaam's view in the shadow of the hill,
at the base of which lay the valley. Five minutes
after, lie saw her near the cotton-woods, and
was certain she would reach it without discovery,
which she did.
It was then two hours past midnight. The
moon was waning, and the stars seemed to look
down through a mist of silver. The mountains
were grim and cold, the snows on their sum-
mits gleaming faintly and weirdly in the pale
light,
To Mignon's imagination the view appeared
like giant castles, with lofty towers, gloomy bas-
tions, and rugged turrets. The defiles were
moats spanned by drawbridges kept by genii.
Feelings of awe stole upon Mignon as she cast
her eyes toward those mighty barriers. The
mightiness of nature, the grandeur of her works,
humbled her heart. The ever famished prairie-
dogs barked and fled at her advance, -stopping
at a little distance to look back and redouble
their cries ; while occasionally, in the distance
a troop of wolves howled their hideous notes.
Though inured 'to these sounds, Mignon-=now
that she was alone-if not absolutely terrified,
was startled and nervous. There followed her
also an unpleasant remembrance of what had
occurred that night directly before her, as well


REDPATH.  549

48

REDPATH.

as incidents of a similar nature that had happen-
ed in Brion's band. As others had asked so did
Mignon, "Who is Redpath ?"
tier better judgment told her that Redpath was
a savage, cunning and deadly, and that was all.
But why were his movements so secret, his step
so noiseless, his approaches so-mysterious ? Easy
questions to answer. He was secret because
success depended upon secrecy ; his step noise-
less for the reason that he adopted extraordinary
precautions ; his approaches mysterious as the
combined result of long practice and skill. Red-
path, then, was but a stealthy Indian, more
malevolent than his brethren, hence more. terri-
ble. He was daring, persevering and adroit, but
perhaps he might yet find an adversary as daring,
persevering and adroit as he. He was but a
savage daubed with paint and full of subtlety;'
he would doubtless fall, ultimately, by the ball
of an American woodsman, and his name and
fame only survive.
Thus reflected Mignon, trying to suppress
those fears which were natural to the time and
place, and in which something very like super-
stition blended. Say what we may to the con-
trary, the strongest minds have an undercurrent
of superstition, and the sturdiest scoffers at the
marvellous find a substratum of supernaturalism
in their souls. This is a truism that the "athe-
ist's laugh" and the infidel's ridicule cannot
overthrow. It is a good thing for .man that
there is such a susceptibility within him; it is
the only avenue through which to convince him
of the existence of a Supreme power, and a con-
scious life hereafter. Mignon formed no excep-
tion to the general body of humanity, in this
respect; and though the name of Redpath had
at first presented as a fabled terror, she shared
unconsciously, almost, in the prevailing senti-
ment of the trappers, hunters and voyageurs-
that Redpath was a being somewhere between
human and devilish.
Near the cotton-woods where she was to wait
the coming of Balaam, was a crevasse or gully,
the entrance to which was more deeply pictured
in shadow. Its sides were jagged and high, worn
and torn (formerly) by a strong stream of water
that tumbled from the lower ranges in a season
of rain. At the top, at the very edges of the
crevasse, their roots exposed and robbed of soil,
stood some trees of pinon, -cypress and birch,
bending their sickly tops over the chasm. The
place, lonely and sombre as it was, appeared to
offer to Mignon a safe retreat until the black

should join her. With a step that faltered, lack-
ing its wonted firmness, she passed into the
gloom of the crevasse. It was cooler there, the
night wind breathing through as it crept from
the hills. Walking on, she came to a deep dell
or basin-a spot of rare obscurity-of which we
have had occasion to speak. Beyond were a series
of elevations extending to the base qf the Wind
River chain of the Rocky Mountains.
Mignon paused in that solitude. How com-
plete was her isolation ! she seemed alone on the
face of the globe, or the only inhabitant of a
new world. Hundreds of miles distant were the
familiar objects of childhood, scenes indelibly
impressed in memory, home with its tender as-
sociations and kindred beloved. Why was she
in that isolation ? Why had she cast aside the
trammels of her sex, and betaken to such a quix-
otic adventure ? To save her father from par-
ticipation in crime, and to secure, if possible, the
safet fof Captain Brion, was the never varying
respo WI  which she gave to those questions.
Tier father's name always came first, afterward
Brion's ; that order agreed better with her deli-
cacy. How would the- sententious world inter-
pret all this ? the world with such a-severe sense
of decorum-the world which reaches just as far
as one's \name and fame, and no farther, all be-
yond being a blank !
" Fear not !" said a voice.
Mignon recoiled and cried out in alarm; be-
side her stood a tall and motionless figure.
"Be not afraid, paleface."
The speaker was an Indian of majestic height.
With his arms folded upon his breast, he stood
looking calmly at Mignon.
" Stand up like a man and do not tremble like
a woman. Ravenclaw strikes not such as thou !
Thy chin is smooth, thy heart is soft, and there
is no power in thy arm to harm my race.",
The voice of the red man was deep and musi-
cal; it came from his broad chest without effort.
His eyes were dark and piercing as those of the
eagle; it seemed to Mignon that she became
transparent before him, and he had to look at
her only, to see what was 'passing within. His
bearing was dignified to a notable degree. He
spoke the English as if it had been his ver-
nacular.
"The vagabond prairie-dog has a home, the
fox a covert, and the wild wolf's whelp a den;
but thou, 0 son of a mighty nation, art shelter-
less," added the Indian.
" Take the goat from the mountains, the buf-

falo from the prairies, the wild horse from the
pampas, the fish from the water, and thee from
the dwellings of thy kindred. Each thing and
creature loves its element ; therefore the goat
stays on the mountain, the buffalo on the prairie,
the wild horse on the pampas, the fish in the
water; wherefore art thou here ?"
"You say well; you -speak according to na-
ture; but it would take long to tell you, son of
the eagle, why I am in the country which the
Master of Life has given to the red man," replied
Mignon, re-assured by the lofty yet kindly man-
ner of the native.
Ravenclaw walked a few paces from Mignon
and addressed some one in his own dialect; im-
mediately she heard steps hurrying away. Ra-
venclaw returned to his former place ; but as he
did not speak, she followed his example. In a
short time-it was long to Mignon-an Indian
woman appeared with a bundle.
"Follow her, and do as she bids you,' d
Ravenclaw, pointing to the woman; heI
spoke to the latter in his own tongue, who, %k-
ing a gesture to Mignon, proceeded to cross the
dell. There Mignon perceived a hut and enter-
ed it in obedience to the signs of her guide. The
woman lighted a pine torch by some embers
that were glowing upon a hearth of stone.
Thrusting the end of the torch into the earth,
she unrolled the bundle. The maiden's cheeks
crimsoned-the bundle contained- female wear-
ing apparel of Indian style, which might-have
belonged to an Indian belle, so elaborately was
it made, and so tastefully ornamented with those
products esteemed graceful and becoming by
tawny dames and red damsels.
The Blackfoot woman pointed to Mignon's
clothes and said, "Take off," then to the gar-
ments which she had brought and added, "Put
on."
The eyes of Ravenclaw had penetrated her
disguise. Was her artifice so transparent to this
son of the mountains ? Had nature indeed gift-
edhim with keener instincts than the child of
cities, the pampered creature of civilization ?
Was she a prisoner ? What were his intentions ?
Such queries ran rapidly through her mind,
while' mechanically she obeyed the commands
of the woman.
A notable change was soon made in Mignon's
appearance, and one that was far from displeas-
ing. We cannot picture fully to the reader's
imagination the effect of this novel costume
(wrought as it was in the height of Indian art),

or note the various articles of which it was com-
posed, nor is it needful. We will say, however,
en passant, that Mignon's small foot did not look
less pretty for the substitution of a more elegant
moccason, nor her ankle less dainty for the
fringed leggins. Her toilet was not considered
complete till her cheeks were stained with paint
and her hands also. The woman then spread
some skins upon-the ground before the tent, and
Ravenclaw, seeing her with Mignon, approached.
"Daughter of-the paleface," he said,** I am
of a warlike race, but I do not war upon women.
Now tell me why you are here? I will listen--.
my ears are open."
Mignon understood at once that the wishes of
the man in whose presence she stood were com-
mands, and not to be disregarded.
" It were better," she answered, with tact,
" that I remain silent before a great chief and a
mighty warrior, as thy lofty bearing proclaims
thee to be. I have -.called thee son of the eagle,
because the eagle is a noble bird with a daring
spirit, proud plumage, and eyes that are not
dazzled by the sun.' Pass on, thou of the strong
wing, nor stoop in thyfiight to notice the spar-
row that flies not so high, nor emulates thy
deeds."
"I said my ears were open ; they are, but
I hear nothing. Are you speaking, Lilyface ?"
he said, somewhat haughtily,
" You have called me Lilyface, because the
pale blood of my nation betrays itself in my
countenance. It is a good name, I like it ; I
will teach my people to call me thus should I
live to return. Listen, chief; the lodge of Lily-
face is away on the border, with an hundred prai-
ries and rivers between.  She has journeyed
many days to reach the hunting-grounds of the
Blackfoot. You have asked why she came ?
Keep your ears open and yoi shall'hear."
Mignon, in that style pleasing to an Indian's
fancy, acquainted him with those particulass
which influenced her movements. She spoke of
Brion; described the character of Pierre Mariot,
finally unfolding his entire plan. 'Ravenclaw
remained calm and unmoved ; while Mignon
watched his face in vain to note the effect of her
story. The incidents of the march were not
passed over, but related-in their appropriate con-
nection. When she finished, Ravenclaw was in
possession of the more important matters con-
tained in the foregoing pages.
"A curse is upon your nation," said Raven-
claw. " That curse is the love of yellow dust ;


50                                   REDPATH.
it turns them into greedy wolves ; they howl and  " You do well to weep, daughter of a doomed
tear each other, and are never at rest. They die people ; even warriors have dropped tears like
by the way-their graves lay along the line of women, and wiped them from their faces with
march-it is well; the Great Spirit has sent it bloody hands."
upon them. - They tremble at the name of Red-  Ravenclaws arm fell to his side,,his chin sunk
path, his deeds strike them dumb; they become upon his breast, and he stood panting for
as women, they grow pale-like squaws when the breath ; another pang would have broken his
avenger is abroad ; when the silent feet of the heart.
unknown pursues ; when his steps are in the  Mignon did not speak-she dared not inter-
mountains and in the defiles. Lilyface, so perish rupt a grief so sublime. She waited for his
thy race I"                               kingly spirit to grow calm. When he address-
"And wherefore?" asked Mignon.          ed her again, his emotion had subsided, and his
" Because they are pushing us over the moun- tones were subdued to kindness, almost ten-
tains into the sea. Fish live in the sea, but men derness.
cannot. But we have turned on our pursuers  "But I have spoken to you as if you were a
like the hunted buffalo, and will go over the warrior and not a woman. You are not guilty
snowy ranges fighting and bleeding, and stain- for the sins of your nation, you shall not suffer.
ing the cliffs with blood. Our old men may die, Love has made you daring, or your voice would
and be buried in sight of the glorious hunting- not have been heard in this valley. War the
ground of the Blackfoot nation; but our young garments you have on, they become your sex
men and our children will fall in nrms, or per- b and you are safer in them. Take this,
ish ignobly by the sounding shores of the great a  ear it always in sight, it will keep you
waters."                                  from harm when others are ready to perish."
Mignon looked earnestly at Ravenclaw, and  The chief gave Mignon a ravenkwrought in
believed that the prophet-heart was beating in beads upon a piece of dressed otter skin ; she faa-
his swelling bosom.                        tened it upon her breast.1
" Home and country are as sacred to the red  "I will wear it," she said, "in remembrance
man as the white. There is but one God, Lily- of a generous chieftain ; it shall be my only
face, and he is as much the God of the Indian as talisman."
the white man," added Ravenclaw, in tones that - " Go to the wigwams of my nation," resumed
thrilled Mignon.                          Ravenclaw. " Your frame is too tender to go
" You are right !" she exclaimed. " You are yonder where the mountain tops are covered
my brother ; there is but one humanity, one peo- with snow. Remain, and in a few moons, you
ple, one race. The soul of a h fo flashes from  shall be conducted safely and 'with an escort o
your eyes-the voice of truth speaks through warriors, to one of the great forts of your peo
you-the cause of the Indian is just. Yes, ple. This false-hearted Mariot, this craven
Ravenclaw, you are leaving a fair heritage-it Frenchman, shall feel the power he has invoked;
is slipping from you-your way is indeed over he shall die as he deserves; and his hireling dog.
the mountains-your children's graves will be shall share in his downfall. Though I slay my
the sea."                                 enemies, I protect the good and the beautifu
"And the great and awful Master of Life will -whom the Master of Life has made to love an
avenge us on a proud and rapacious nation 1" not to destroy. You are not such as smite m3
cried Ravenclaw, with reverential fervor. " He brethren, your foot is not such as goes on th
will smite your people-he will sweep them war-path, nor your voice such as shouts the bat
away with the power of his mighty arm. He tIe-cry of the palefaces; therefore you live anc
Will remember the wrongs of the red man long speak to Ravenclaw. Think not that justice ani
after the red man has become extinct; and in humanity dwell with the white men only; the
his tremendous wrath he will arise and shake have habitations in forests, and in the hearts o
heaven and earth; your stars shall fall, and your men called savages."
bloody eagle shall shriek for help."        " The heart of Lilyface beats with gratitude
Ravenclaw stretched out his hand, and his ex- the generosity of Ravenclaw fills her with wor
pressiopi was sublime. Mignon was awed, she der and admiration; yet she loves her people
felt a compassion for the red race that moved nor would remain in the lodges of the Black
her to tears.  -                           foot nation, because her father's spirit would

REDPATH

fL
r
1
I
-L
n
y
If
d
y©
t-
,d
:y
Df
n-

4

51

grow heavy with sorrow, and her kindred would  " We may meet again in the land of souls,"
mourn her as one dead. Let Lilyface depart in said Mignon.
peace to join the hunters of the mountains."   "The red man and the white will be forever
A cloud rested upon the brow of the Indian.  distinct," resumed Ravenclaw.
, "I thought to save you from danger, but you  " In that country to which we are going, all
refuse to be thus saved. Think again. Would nations will forget their earthly differences.
you see the tomahawk and scalping-knife crim- Enemies will be reconciled, races will blend, and
soned with the blood of your people?- Would kindreds and families and peoples mingle hap-
you see them falling like leaves, with no power pily," returned Mignon.
to aid them ?"                                 "Never !" exclaimed the chief. "The'soul
"God knows I would see no such horrors !" of a red man and the soul of a white will remain
exclaimed Mignon.                           eternally unlike each other; their desires and
" Remain, and you shall be as safe as if by instincts are not the same."
the fireside of your father's wigwam."         " The ,revelations of that mysterious life are
"I doubt it not-I doubt it not !" she replied, hidden from our eyes ; we seeedarkly, and
"Yet your heart is near the chief of the white know imperfectly ; but the beneficent hand of
trappers," said Ravenclaw, after a pause. " Be the Great Spirit will remove thecvail, and at
it so, you shall go to him in safety if it takes all death we shall discern more clearly, and think
my warriors to conduct you; yet I swear by the more comprehensively. Chief of a powerful na-
Great Spirit that not a hair of your head shall tion, adieu till then "
fall if you stay.": p"iBe                         it so-it is decreed ; and what is decreed
"You have inspired me with such confidence," cannot be changed. Our paths have been ap-
returned Mignon, " that your word is to me like proaching each other since the hour our lives
that of the Master of Life. If I were weary, and commenced; but having met, after to-night they
you said to me, 'Lie down there' and sleep in will forever diverge. Daughter of the paleface,
safety,' I would do so, and rest without troubled a voice calls you away; leave my sight-go,
dreams."                                    go,           y        "
Mignon smiled sweetly, and held out her hand  Ravenclaw drew his form to a loftier height,
to Ravenclaw. He took it and held it a mo- and assumed a sterner expression. Mignon took
ment in his own. He did not utter his thoughts, a ring from her finger, andplacing it in his hand,
his lips were closed, his face calm, though the said :gt
sternness of its expression was gone-but his   " It is the gift of Lilyface-keep it."
breathing grew quick, shaking his broad chest  Ravenclaw held the glittering jewel between
with its vehemence. Who shall tell what strong his thumb and finger.
feeling was wrestling with his proud spirit, and  " This will be more precious to me than my
how nobly he mastered himself?           ~  life," he replied. "I will wear it on my breast
"Lilyface," he said, in tones that welled up where it shall feel the motion of my heart as
from his soul, "you make me think better of long as it beats. It shall be with me when I
your race. I will not forget you, I will think of sleep and when I awake; it shall go with me to
you till'I go to the land of spirits where my battle, my hands shall  it when I    e
.fathers have gone. Look up- and see the starsyastm    ad    hl graspitweI die. In
fathrs avegon. Lok u  an  se th  strsyears to come, should the plough of the white
and remember, many moons from now, when you man'disturb my bones, they will cast up this
stand again near the wigwams of your kindred gift. And' now go, go ! You shall hear no
and behold them  shining-that you saw them  more the voice of Ravenclaw."
once in a far off country, and with the chief of a  Mignon hastened away; at the distance of a
hunted people beside you. In his dreams Raven- few paces she paused and waved her band, but
claw has heard a voice like, thine; but after Ravenclaw stood immovable, and made no sin.
to -night it will be heard save in dreams only.ig
Lilyface, daughter of my enemies, we meet be-CHAPTER L.
cause it was the will of the Great Spirit, weC                    E
part because it.is also his will."  '         - BRION'S NUMBERS ARE DIMINISHED.
Ravenclaw relinquished Mignon's hand, re-   BaRON's camp was astir very early in the
peating in a voice of deepest melancholy, "We morning. The hunt was to be resumed, and the
met-we part !"                              hunters wished to be seasonably in the saddle.


.I

REPATIL

Ueadley and his party, excited by their new hopesI
and schemes, were among the first to awake.
They had dreamed-of a golden harvest, and the
" Casa Montezuma."   The partisan had not-
betaken to his blanket until nearly daylight, and
weary with his vigils he was yet slumbering.
Mariot was not to be seen. The gold-seek
ers, drawn together by sympathy of feeling, were
cooking their breakfast very amicably. Inqui-
ries' were made. respecting the absence of the
grand projector of the new enterprise. Headley
only appearing undisturbed by the circumstance,
he was naturally looked to for light upon the
subject.
" He left us last night," said Headley, in -a
low tone. " He came to see me before he went,
and instructed me what to do. ' If I don't re-
turn,' he said, ' before morning, you need not
expect me, but fall back 'to the Red Buttes with
as many as have the courage to follow you,
where we will arrange everything to mutual sat-
isfaction.' This was what he told me."
Headley arose with a determined look.
"I am one that goes, who will follow?"' he
added, glancing inquiringly at his friends.
"Let us go for our horses," said Conroy.
"Agreed, agreedI" cried a dozen voices. " To
the Red Buttes-to the Red Buttes !"
Buckeye was passing the malcontents, and
heard enough to ' understand what was going
forward ; he ran and aroused Brion from sleep.
" Come, cap'n, it's time for you to act; the
Headley and Dorelle party are deserting."
Brion was instantly upon his feet and walking
toward the horses, which, having eaten their
fill, were lying down.
"Aint you going' to call out some of the men
to help you?" asked Buckeye.
" No, I can help myself," said the partisan,
firmly.
He foundileadley bridling a horse, and others
preparing to do the same.
" Men," said Brion, " these animals belong to
the American Fur' Company; you cannot take
them,"
Headley was confused.
" What I" he exclaimed, " have we not ridden
- these horses since the hour we left Fort Leaven-
worth ?"
"So you have had the light of the moon, but
I think you do:not oun'the moon," repliedBrion,
quietly._
" We have ridden these animals, we have-
called them ours, we ae groomed and cared

for them, and we shall take them !" rejoined
Headley, raising the saddle from the ground.
"Stop,!" thundered the partisan, " do not add
robbery to unmanly conduct. Everything you
see here is in my charge, and I will spend the
last drop of my blood in its defence !  o, if you
will, in search of the Casa Montezuma, and the
fabulous treasures of the Valley of the Gila, but
go as you are. You shall not plunder my camp
for the benefit of your mad schemes. Had you.
made known to me the cause of your dissatisfac-
tion, and informed me of your intentions to
abandon my party and seek for treasure in a
distant region, I would in turn have dealt frank-
ly with you; I would have told you that you
are being duped by a villain; but this is past,
you are unworthy of my confidence. Go and
learn by bitter experience that you should deal
honestly with all men, nor disregard solemn
compacts. I see here thirteen, who cease from
this moment to be members of my band, Leave
us at once, and never return-unless as penitent
and reasonable men desiring protection."
"Protection=!" sneered Headley.
"By the beard of Joe Smith !" cried Back-
eye, who had followed Brion ; " you'll need it !"
"Then doubtless we shall call upon you !"
returned Conroy.
"Shoulder your rifles, my   friends," said
Headley, to his adherents.
"To the Iced Buttes-to the Red Buttes !"
shouted others.
"I pity these misguided men, my anger yields,
to compassion," said the partisan to Buckeye, in
a low tone.
'It's sympathy wasted, cap'n ; it isn't in 'em
to be wise and prudent, especially while that tall
Missourian is among 'em. The quicker you get
rid of such fellers the better; for they aint fit
for your business, and never will be," answered
Buckeye,
" Though indignant at your conduct, I regret
to see you rushing blindfold into new difficulties
and dangers. Men, let me warn you to shun
Dorelle, and make your way with as much secre-
cy andexpeditionas possible-to Fort Laramie,"
resumed Brion, addressing the gold-seekers
once more.
" You speak of difficulties and dangers as
though there were none attending your expedi-
tion, and we were not at this moment turning
our backs upon them," said Conroy,
"Once more, my friends-shoulder a     m-
march ! If we cannot have our horses, we can

E 1 lPATH.

go on foot, and trust to luck-and Monsieur
Dorelle."
The gold-seekers fell into marching order, and
moved off in quite a spirited manner.
"Dim-sighted fools !"  exclaimed- Buckeye.
"They are marching to destruction 1"
" Or to join the, Rocky Mountain Fur Com-
pany," added Brion.r
"They wont do it, even if the alternative be
presented ; they've got their minds puffed up
with ideas of treasure and sudden wealth, and
that's a hard notion to get rid on. They'll in-
sit on the original project."
"As long as they think there's any truth in it,"
said Brion.
"And Mariot wont tell 'em he's lied, in a
hurry."
" Well, they have provoked their fate what-
ever it may be. My party is minus thirteenmen;
thirteen from seventy-two leaves fifty-nine."
"You'ye lost thirteen men, but your band
isn't weakened; it's strengthened; because the
remainder are disciplined somewhat, have ex-
perience, and can be commanded. Men that
wont be governed aint the kind for your purpose,
cap'n."--.                           -
WhileS this scene' was transpiring, the main
body of the party were quietly eating breakfast
around -their respective'fires.
The sun was rising above the level of the
eastern prairies ; he came up like a ball of liquid
tie. Soft and grateful zephyrs, bearing aro-
matic odors, breathed around the mountaineer as
he walked thoughtfully about the encampment,
giving orders. The events of the morning had
induced him to change his mind in regard to
hunting the buffalo. His camp was in,' a situa-
tion too much exposed to be left in charge of a
small party, which would necessarily be the case'
should he send out twenty or thirty i of his band
to hunt. He therefore formed the resolution of
moving forward to a canon a few miles farther
on. Once in possession of the. canon he could
hold his ground against a large body of enemies
with half his company; but he was :suspicions
that it was occupied by savages, who were wait-
ing a favorable opportunityto attack them, either
while'they were hunting or scattered on the
march, and unprepared for resistance. ' his
suspicion was produced by what he had heard
when listening-to the conversation of Mariot and
Beavertaker, and the -suggestions previously
made by the former in regard to his route, he
having advised hint 't keep near the tirountais
4_

53

Accompanied by Buckeye, Brion mounted
and rode toward the canon. - It was a fixed pin'
ciple with the latter, always to take the'odst  f
danger, and be the foremost in situations requir-
ing 'courage-and skill. When' approaching a
place where an enemy *ai known 'to be pona
cealed, he asked no one to solve the matter, but
settled the question by his own personalbravery
and tact. If the front was theatened he wasIn
the front, if the .rear, he Was in the rear, taking
at once the-responsibility and the risk.
"Get up,'Flash!" said Backeye, giving his
horse'the rein.
While the parties were galloping ^ toward the
canon, the clatterbf hoofs arrested their atten-
tion.' The sounds came from beyond a small
strip of timber forty or fifty rods ahead, and pres-
ently two persons turned the wood and drew in
sight.
" Ingins !" exclaimed Buckeye.
"No," replied Brin "one is a negro.r
"And' the other'is an Ingin woman or gal, or
somethin' of that natur."
"It would seem so," said the partisan, ob-
serving the advancing persons sharply. "Atall
events, their intentions are not -hostile,""he
added.
" By the beard of Smith !" cried Buckeye,
" that nigger feller is ridin' the same hoess that
that youngster rode' who fell in with ius tetherr
day."
" The resemblance is striking, I confess," re-
turned'Brion.
" There's no resemblance about it  i1's the
same," rejoined the other.
"It is very possible," rejoined the partisan.,
The objedts of these. remarks approached.'
"Are youi lookin', cap'n ?" asked Buckeye, i
a low voice.
" am," said Brion.              -
"Isn't she oncommon ! what a'  efi what a
figure -! what an eye !f'          '
" Handsome, certainly," returned the'patstis.
"Bewitchin', cap'n !" added Buckeye, wit
increasing enthusiasm  *
" Beware that you 'do hot fall 'brdove with ahs
Indian'beauty," said Brion, playfully.
"I sha'n't make ,o-promises,"cause love 'Ilge
where it's sent. Flash, ou rascal, prick ,up
your ears and cut ai'caper P'
Flash,-in obedien'ce;to his- master's- niitd it,
d. quickened perchance by the spur, reare19aeo
coldd eltisheya'    c
"Now's ytiame'a."p       etinug the

I


e          n rnresin. Put on the ion
a~hp .;4  hge I gin gels are. smazin fond
of hors   p rip.",
"    x   a, 4otters1" exclpired Buckeye,
S     donideilone of the heathen.riptiles.
S  aJ:e s s us on  idewg. jes' like? a convaged
stiau female. Begr of the prophet Smith!
b adI itsng'la l"
"She vit g~racef t l By,  '  re," said Brion.
*a queenj" quqth ,Buckeye.
If the appearange;of the Indian maiden pro-
4wped such a marked e~ect"upon Buckeye, what
must have been the emotions of Brion,. who be-
lievedthat in her he recognized the face and
form of Mignon ' ;The -wonderfal disclosures
of the previous night had prepared the- way to
such46 recognition, Havipg seen the,features'of
Ba     , he was niot one to, forget them; and he
was well assured by the few words he heard him
utter on that occasion, that he would never be
found ,fur from his young mistress. The bosom
9f the mountaineer was agitated by doubt, love,
fear, admiration.  Mignos approached, while
Balaau-chscked his horse and,-fell fin the rear.
Wbiei near enough she raised hereyes and asked.
"Is not tis Captain Brion, thepartisan of the
American Fur Company -"
" es ' said Brion, respectfully.,
"I bWe that to say which must be ,my. excuse
for appearing befpre you in thisfgarb, and under
circumstances so peculiar," she added, averting
her eyes, her cheeks ' ecoming-suddenly suffused.
Brion's brave heart, beat rapidly. The jnod-
esgy aid heroism of Mignon charmed him, - He
thought of whatshe had done, and the dangers
shd.had dared. , Andfor what had she tempted
such. iperle I The, qpqery came with stunning
fgr ,p. sWhat but, love mgkeswoman bold ?
" 'ou need no excuse for appearing before
Ben Brion," he replied, with, warmth. "Your
wiW  shalmy ommands, you have only to
name them. I beg of you to be frank, and trust
~ ~   wen imet:  established an ac
Mignon looked inqfliringy at the partisan tc
kw a; ierprd&amp;p ha4 other significance tha
what they seene4to have upon their:aurface.
'f;My comayncations will consist simply o
- gew~m     a oh jI fear will appear -inde
finite and unsatisfactory," Mignon resumed.,
i     p' re ,,  nas do injustice- orpy na
"So I shall endeavor to persuade zmyse
.")Aggg      Q , wi ;ptavtiing ingenuous

nress.. ".I loge to think well 'of, humanity ; I
have pleasure in seeing poor human nature ex
alted. I will-to employ a.Jewish simile-deal
frankly and truly with thee, though -it may cost
me pail and confusion. You wonder why I am
here ; it is'to warn you of the danger Of which I
have spoken, this is why I am before you.",
"For me !" exclaimed Brion, astounded, at
such ,a declaration.
ucarh me; the danger which threatened you
compromised the honor of one who is dear to
me," rejoined Mignon.
If the declaration she had first made filled him
with hope, the last avowal dispelled it. One'
who-was " dear to her !" Ah, that must be a
lever or a husband!
"You are the victim of a wicked scheme,
which has for its object the destruction of your
party. The man to whom belongs the paternity
of this plot, will not fail through softness of
heart or scruples of conscience."
" May I ask his name ."
" I cannot tell you-it would involve another.
If Ican-defeat him without exposing him, Iwill."
"lHe is Pierre Mariot," said Brion.
Mignon grew pale.
"It is too true," she answered. " You' have
discovered the secret."
I even know you ,"resumed the mountaineer.
Atignoa looked up in alarm.
" Will'you speak -my name?" she added.
"Mademoiselle Belimar ; those to  whom
friendship gives the right to address you familiar-
ly call yo  Mignon."
Mignon's face became crimson. A lovelier
countenance could not have been presented to
the gaze of the mountaineer.'- His sympathies,
his love, his soul itself seemed to pass over to
a Mignon. He idealized her perfections, he spirit-
r ualized her beauty. The conquest which began
at Westport was, now complete. Mignon be-
t came  all that was divine in woman.  Brion
- wished to kneel at her-feet and do homage.
S"You are right," she responded, pensively.
o   "And doyou remember that we once met?"
n    " Well, it was at night; you laid me under ob-
ligations which I shall not forget."
f   "And did you imagine that 1 could forget,
- Mademoiselle Bellmar ? .Pardon mry boldness,
but your idea has been with me ever since. I
L. have 'thought of- you on the march-I have
dreamedof you while sleeping on the-prairies.
i n you are here before me ! 0, this cannot he
s reality--this is the veriest hallucinationI"

At first Brion fixed his eyes on the maiden's  Mignon was embarrassed she withhe  a
e      uto  tle at his own teieity, he-allowed Lion of the truth to screen him frotthe
sinktill, they rested hjpan Mignon's tion of guilt.,,                   nP
in her cheeks andd             blood glowing   "   chanced to hear," e said, "a enve
ind reekn al ancing through her swelling tion not intended form
veins preternaturally quick.           =t         no atitonded foray my ears,2;ri~h rmade ^n
" Thereawillb6b       party to l                   purposes.   Bginpopsessiop of
lThen ere wil  time for gallant speeches his secret, it was naturalIshoui  '    i
when we meet under different circumsances," mcy father."                  ,    08 t
she  resum ed, w ith  dignity, casting  o  her                  adrm'           or i
ly weakness. nns.,~mx                            Very true," said Brian, "and. for his  eI
Ieraeado       doubt not you have accomplished this perl
no m e  pardon, but I never speak what I do pilgrimage."
not mean."                                     "Yes, it is so you constre     e
"And what is it that you mean ?"she asked, generously. I would do muciaNhr t
with asperity.                  my father's name linkedwihnfm.
."Since  uaewihifm"                                                              ,,-
Sinw e nouare  offendedI  dare not confess.  "That expression does you much honor, an
d                             you for the raises you still higher inmy 48tem.
undesered exertions you hate made in my be= done all you can do, it is probe  a
half. Mademoiselle, I know not how to clothe to return; is it so?"at you
I flngs o graiyute ir   ds  id            "I put myself -under your pro teion:.nntil
Iwilsaeyoutetoble," said Mignon, shall be so fortunate 40 to meet ,a- pa'retuim
with a smile, extending her hand to himn     ins from the mo unateas tohee I a y beurn.
"c'I swear by this hand to be th           ing from voed  t he mountains, t , he alalf;go back
of  swarbythsishandto behe most'devoted    " To afford you every assistance in m
of your filends-to sacrifice life, everything to will be but a meagre teatimoal ofm   r
That is mu     and unaskedto              tude. I now have duties to perform requfrg
"Ttc i muc, ad           , to        did my immediate attention ;but I will firstacordc
not come' 'like love-lorn damsel seeking adven- you to                       ,.p."  9  ode
turous knight."                                  dIs it far, captain ?"
'Mignon pronounced these words with a smile   "Yuseyne
hen lps, bt        ttee                         You see yonder hill! it is at th'rgtO
on he "is   u in a tone somewhat indicative that."               hl~i    s'ttergt~
of injured pride, which the partisan did not fail  "Then I need not trouble you .to
to o stice th.B                           alaats  w ill  easil find  it " .
favor,"heish no though feelings not to your  Brian demurred at this arrangement, but
fore sd,                  entertain for' you non was firm, insisting that the'wa a
you have rone   rest    Never  I trust, will and their acquaintance should notco   e
mne           o blush for word or act of with taking him from his duties"
o      r ressidgre h step you have taken to ward  "Beside," she added, looking kindly.at the
off p  g    anger. chance has ahdy made black, "Balaam is as good as             7    treheie  'j
imendsq      ''wth e nature of the peil that laan  as fatterd shyhisbg ir et
impendsfMariot is indeed a villain, and it is dectaid himself  "host''in the    y arm
truly unfortunate that a man' like' Monsieur mistress,
Belar    your father, of whose, name I have  " There's a cre'i among us,
heard honorable mention,' should be congeeted eye, "that                     qoe of us can gua a nt. "
with him in business~yeas'" RedpsthI" said Mignon.
S No orte' can regret it more deeply than I  it  "Tha            vaithe 'aManrn
has long been a source of pain."' '"  't. ed       atthe nt'ramean
"I am willing tockyeolv o.ieur"        ar    Bc      . fear Redpath   een;     .
rcpti        ipaon in' ts sheme for the charm," Mdgmon rejoin.
destruction of my band,fand             rmy ";too      Wehred g i d cnharr      'me  that
.emnloyers"'are                                    t ''"          many,c.        s   ha
-1 Y",o  do-him no more than jttice     i     3are jes' alkilated to turn a feller's head  tat
al.iosththe      '        1e               most," Buck yp replied,  astinga  rtiv'hic ec
to     ."                                       I  fer to  a  special  h ' i," r
"e Was acquainted with those d egs, it blushing, which willgua         r sume    ghon
danger.


IDPATH.

"For me there's no charm like your beauty,
ils, and to protect that, I'd stan' afor  a army
of savage i-igtiles like Redpath."
-      you are sincere, I'm sure ! so I thank
eeme berretonsbear wellto theright.
to'iei N    ur, I-w  beith you ,soon:.
5n'hn toialam m "Tell my men that you met
their leaderand he expects them to treat this
yroaug lady ; with 'respect."
, 1Yes maia' -I'll'spoke dat to 'em' said
emseBalaam.  '; 3rt,
I wacorrect," affirmed' Buckeye, when
(Igiti h*was out of hearing, "about' the black
I 'U t "'kyou were, really," Bridn replied.
Ae it      IrIshould like to know," added
welll ?~
yefeungster's name thatused to ride the
w wicir now carries that dusky heathen."
a' reviewi. d iOnfess that you did not ;like
"MHe 'appeared'fopish; but atween you and I,
detitr'uAted thaut'it was a&amp;woman the minute I
pb; my eyes on .hi"
" I cannot give you credit for so mucb per=
spcacity. ;Ead1 you been suspicious of her sex,
Yqnu\leari g would hvae been less,'repulsive.
Your gallantry Icannot doubt, since you passe.'
yitco pli ets upgn yonder 'young lady so
adsitly  If you go on in that way,    ~my
ait     u    tiyou wl prov a dangerous
T 6pap;er drew up    is shoulders signifi-
ii dn't'tea'you should git ahead of; me,
though hou're very flooent i speech' but
h ,   '  beardof mith ! you made a plump
eaigration 1"
"Ie;was not guilty of such folly," said
"That olcocnmon'eretur woid    a ke any
man commit inliset        peye
t,°ii'll8 i4ii5'aforenme for 'the'  next"tventy-
fourhours like di'sonsA     p    oP
"a not," said the xyounta iieer,4Y,
e        a    kfaire'hands, y persisted
are' lieiving,   iend"
"And her smile is ofa heavenliuatu "  i
B   quiet,ook yonder just whes '168C

t

bushes skirt the plateau, and tell me if you -see
aught thatia egpiciousV"
" I see a ii otionlpss object, that seems from
this distance-like a stick or stone."
" Watch it a moment."
It moves a little; it's a rptile:-one of. the
ouregenerate perductions ofathis great kentry 1"
" Let us move that way;, perchance we may
sijir{ p a nest of them. I have known one to
stand like a fixture, while several of his com-
panions were concealed  in the  surrounding
thickets.  It may be thus in the present in-
stance."
Bending somewhat to the left that their ad-
vance, might be covered by, an arm of timber
reaching out into the, prairie, the wary trappers
approached the suspicious object, which, after
all, might prove r . wolf or a buffalo ; for, the
space intervening, wasyet considerable.,Keep..
ing a careful watch in every direction where they
supposed it possible an enemy could be con-
cealed, theygooU turned, the timber; but that
which hd drawn their scrutiny was no longer ins
sight itlhad vanished in the wood, sank into the
eartj, or was hidden in the grass.
Je were seen, you perceive," said Brion.
" Our design was fathomed before we changed
our course. But what is this upon this tree .
A human figure cayed in the bark !i'
The monuntainer rode to the tree and ex-
amined the carving which was yet fresh,
o  gtten minutes have elapsed since the edge
odfi. kfe eft heg~)ies/fs1d Brion. -
ei"Notfive," aid  Buckeye. , "The  sap, yet
o   f-m the wounds. New this wasn't phade
for nothi'; there's meanin' to it, as there -is
about everytbin' an Ingin does."
alMosiblyit was cut, merely for ,amusement,"
replied the partisan.
"$ No, sir ; depend on't there's, some deviltry
in it."  -
Tehandiwork ofRedpath," nsweredD4on,
with a smile and an incredulouslook. y t
" It iouii4' be strange, though I . 'n't, think
t ie c r etunr fin~s time ,for much, fancy-work, of-
Sthis partic'lar dec~ition.'
'It strikes  euckeye, thaty9  realy fear
this incomprehensibe edpath.
"Fear is'a word I don't veryrmuch like, cap'n*
even from y   I'll thank you to find thmaena
who'llcall ',m ,coward to my;face. As-for
I Redpath, he's like nobodyelse-a sort of Ingia
devil that. baies the wigetOf us; bht Iin'mnot
afraid 'of him-no, not by no means';aand in fat

I'should like to meet him face to face as .o
brave man mneets another. I oul 'pu as go
American rifle ball through hispbody; I won
kill him as I would a wolf, and his accursed a
and mystery would perish with him."
The mountaineers were bending over the
horses' necks looking atdtheifigure ; the air wa
slightly disturbed, and something passed betwee
the  adsruc te object at which they wer
looking with a sharp concussion. Both instine
tivey dew bck- log arrow was quivering i
thetree. For a moment Brion was too muc
astonished to speak or to act.
"By the beard of'Smith !" said Buckeye.
Thesound of his voice aroused the partisan
putting'spurs to his horse he dashed toward the
timber.-
"By heavens I" he muttered. " I will make
an attempt to solve this mystery."
He urged his horse into the wood, which being
free from underbush, offered but little i'mpedi
ment ; he galloped through and around it,and
came back with his animal heated and foaming.
"Why do ' you sit motionless Why'  not
make an effort to find this invisible archer
asked the trapper.
"A sense of gratitude fastens me here, cap'n."
"A sense of gratitude IIdo not understand."
"It is jes' here,: consider, and you'll' perceive
that.the"arim that sent that shaft directly to the
head of that figure, could as easily have sent it
through your head or mine."
"That is a very just conclusion, Buckeye. I
did not pause to think of nice points ; but indeed
.I could scarcely' find iin my heart to draw a
hair sight on one, who, having my life in his,
power'did not take it. In this you have acted
wisely.. -Yes, the eye that aimed that ball could
have aimed it at a human' brain instead of an
insentient one like that. What a narrow bound-
ary lies between us and death 1" .
",Scarcely wider tian the edge of my hunting'
knife."                  ede.f y;unin
"Ah, luckeye, we must travel that trail
sometime!"'
"A strange road-a strange road ! And it's
been used a ood da, rtoo."
"Death is at times, a cold and awful mystery
to me,, but not always. What is it to yoeI"
"I expectmy mind is     dark and ignorant
oine,' but it t'oo often seems to, me'an  eternal
sleep. Perchance, I shall go back to elemental
diet, and be as .I was a 't eandtoelarenago l
little matter in moio o  c"          a

.571

ne    "That is not the most cheerful belief imagina-
)d ble, but far better than a future of pait"
Id While Brion was thus conversing his hands
rt were not idle ; he was cutting the arrow fm the
tree with his hatchet, which, when extractedlid
ir examined with a feeling of intense curiosity.
is The sharp, polished, tapering steel head, deli.
n cately small, the long smooth shaft attalied
'e had for him a peculiar interest, connected as they
e- were with the fate of Townsend' and Minten,
n, Stringer and Grenier.
h "It is wondrously well wrought, 'he remarked.
"And marvellously well sped, too," added'
Buckeye.
j "I will keep it as a memento of Redpath."
e "Also to make you think, perhaps, thai'1e=
mate to it istkept for you; and you will some-
etime receive it."
The canon was now near' at hand, and as they
drew in sight of it, the partisan saw a hurnan'
- form standing upon the summit of a high. elig,
I which he quickly pointed out to the tripper. 'The
sun was shining upon the jagged elevation glo-
riously, making the figure appear as if clothed in
garments of flame. He gazed down 'upon the'
horsemen a moment, waved his hand and dis-
appeared.
Brion looked inquiringly at his' coiipanion.
"It may be the evil one' himself; he shoe
li'e a pillar of fire '" suggeste'd'iukeye.
"His majesty has a majestic figure, then.'
"He can assume any shape, undoubtedi."
The mountaineers entered the cano, passed
through it; it sheltered no visible enemy, anl
they turned their horses' heads toward the en-
camprent of the previous night, Brion entirelyy
absorbed in thought.
"Do you know,' said Buckeye;'.interrut ing
his reverie, "that Redpath is not, the only ee
among us that is dangerous 7 Thereis one who
aims not at the head but at the heart, and 'her
arrows go straight'as a rifle ball."
Brion .writhed' under the trapper's raillery , butt
deemed it wisest to keep silent.'
"And yet this fair archers th sgli the doesn't
aim. at the head, affects 'the, brains not,~ 'little
with her pretty arrows, which are launched froth
her sparklin' eyes.,'
The mountaineer confessed, internally,tit
there was: truth in this metaphor, inasmuch: as
the mnidiously wounding weapons'of' lknon
were vibrfting beneath his huiing flocktthe
,verycentre of a great and aetie eule'ei

RItDPA'L.


-53

BEDP4Wg

CAIPTE     X.               ho
Si'
A SACRIFICE TO THE CORN-SPIEIT.       se
fIfrgON a i  the beek intended to follow the v
reetions of Brigp to the letter; -but notwith- at
standing hi instructions to keep to the right,
#4aam unwittingly took the left aide of the hill. th
T oey had made half the circuit of thebill be- "
fom the scor sequencesof their inattention were bi
apparent. A yell recalled Balsam to the outer C
waking world, rudely, it must be confessed, but g
eetumaljy. Mignon was the fir~t to realize the ce
misfprtune that ha4 befallen the. She perceiv-
ed aroun.,her a circle of dusky men, armed with w
spears, knives and guns,; she had fallen into an r
sappgsende of Indians.. The discovery was one
to, try the flrmest nerves. Balsam, seeing a red 'c
hand grasp his'horse's bridle, thought it time tv,
bestir himself With a sweep of his long arm he t
filed the o ender, then disengaging a small axe t
whie'ras secgred at his saddle,.and in theuse b
o   hc    he was practiced, he struck ,down
anothersavagegend prepared'for a sturdy de-q
fene of histeistress. Enraged at his resistance,
they swarmed upon him in overwhelming num-s
bed, ith loud, vindictive whoops.
For a time the giant strength of the black pre-
vaile4,:his weapon gleaming around him in rapid
is,. catering his roes; but anon a hatchet
hurled by a ga~rrior took effect upon his head..
The faithful uegro casa despairing look at Mig-'
nona, nd lost his seatin the saddle but when
t1g   ,the.ground he sprang up and shook him-'
seiflike a lign; then, even, Mignon believed he
S iight lrove Unconquerable. He struck a few
bopws, then eapk upop one knee, yetcontinuing'
to resist and defy them in his own peculiar way.
Per" ging hatbis strength was failing, he turn-
e i, eyes toward hisbeloved mistress.'
The redaniggers bali fined me-God breps
ye, missy!i" he ;said, and fell forward upon his
fae. The infuriated -savagesgvould have mane
gls$and mutilated his body, but their chief com-
manded them topist, adding that, eowarde
wight he heckedand cut in piees but not brave
en who sell: their lives dearly.' This umane
Inden, however, did not waive the established
usage of his race, and in a moment held up poor
Balaam's scalp  At the sight ,of this reeking
troph 'Mignon swooned.: When she recovered,
shewas seated at the foot of a tree, hernbodysup-
poited by the r. The natives were grouped
together a few paces distant,.gpeaking earnestly
in their own dialect, which-pounded harsh an

horrible to Mignon. There seemed to be a diri'
on of opinion among them which was finally
ttled, as she judged by the altered tone of their,
oices. The chief came and looked at ,her
tentively.
"You wear," said he in English so broken
at we shall not attempt, to give, it .verbatim,
the garb of a princess of the Blaolfoot nation,
at your skin is pale. The Blackfoot and the
row are enemies; they hate each.other-,--they
o to war and take scalps--they put their prison-,
nr to death. Palefaced woman, you must die'"
"Do the warriors of. the Crow nation wage
rar upon women ?" asked Mignon; striving to
ally her courage.
" They 'destroy their enemies," returned the
hief.
"Eneugeg are those who take the war-path;
he women of the paleface nation never go upon,
he war-path; they love 'peace4and remain at
home."
"Then why art thou here 1" said the chief,
quickly.
"Not to take life but to save it," ,ignon an-
swered.
"Like all your craven race, you shrink from,
death."
"And why should I notI Am I not young,
and does no _-the young heart cling to exis-
tence ? Women dia'well when the treat Spirit'
calls; but they draw back from violence and
blood."
"The Grsat Spirit calls you now.
"I cannot hear him."     =
"le calls you through my voice; he bids you
get ready."
"The Orews are cowards or they would not
kill wonin ;,brave men hold such deeds in hor-
ror," rejoined Mignon.
"'ale maiden, it is-better to die young than
old. If you go to the land of souls now you wilt
remaigli young and beautifWl forever ; but if you
live till you are old and'wrinkled, you will enter,
that country as such, and continue so."
"Hear me: I have a father whoa 'has much.
gold'; he -has .a' trading-house beyond yonder
mountains where he keeps the hi ngs most.val
nqd by, red. men; i;go there with me and you
shall-be made rich abme all your tribe."
The Indian paused a moment as if meditating
upon what hq :hadheard, andt Mignon begsn to
hope. ,
"Yug sellhaye guns that never miss their
aim, nmsun t    oigna last your life-time, blankets'

f

that defy the snows of the coldest winter, an
horses that are swifter than the antelope an
stronger than the buffalo.. With these you ca
make war upon the Blackfeet, and' conquer
them."
" Palefaces have artful tongues, and the re
man cannot tell when they speak the truth
What you say sounds well, but you might lea
us into the strong forts of the whites where w
should be slain by the thunder of the great gins
I have listened to you too long. The corn-spiri
requires an offering, and he will not be cbnten
save with a young and beautiful maiden such a
thou art."
" Will the manner of my death be painful ?
Mignon asked.
"White maiden, it will be painful, but.not o
long duration," said the Crow. "In the lan
of souls you will forget your sufferings and re
joice to see the corn growing green and tall t
feed our hungry children."
"It is horrible !", exclaimed Mignon.
"It is nought compared to the torture 'o
three days, when twelve fies are lighted, and i
the arts of inflicting pain are exhausted," he re
plied, his face glowing with savage ferocity a'
the recollection of the scenes he had witnessed.
With these words he'left her and issued'orders
which she could not understand. Presently sh
was placed upon her horse, and the party 'set ofl
toward the mountains. Mignon turned' a last
lingering look toward the hill where she had ex
pected to find friends and safety.
She submitted to her captors with the helpless
passivity of despair, her bowed head and droop-
ing form testifying to her deep despondency.  '
The Indians did not address her, and- the trail
to the nearest Crow village was-traced silently.
Tallbear, 'the chief, kept near her person, setting
ai eample of taciturnity which was followed by
his 'warriors. -
They pressed forward   without stopping,
though their progress. was slow. The gloomiest
night that Mignon ever experienced approached,
and-with it came clouds and a  shower of rain,
attended with thunder and lightning. Tallbear
ordered a halt; watching the heavens with anx-
ious expression;
"The Great 'Spirit- is angry," said Mignon,
hoping- to turn the' elemental strife to her ad
vantage.
"Yes;"answered the chief, "he is angy bet
cause the   i*   delayed."    '
"Not so; u4br the reason that such a feari-

d ful rite is contemplated. While- rebuking 'your
d wickedness with the thunder ahd lightniighe at'
n the same time gives yotd ain 'rdef esh y'lbur
ir corn, and prove to you that he can make'li'row
without your aid."
d At that instant there was a terrific expldsidr
. and the red, - quivering lightning 'played around'
d them. The ground trembled 'with the violence
e of the concussion. ' A  large' tree was shiveied
s. from its topmost branches to the roots,i iean
[t Indian wiho had been standing beneathr 'it as
t stricken lifeless. Tallbear Was awed. Igne-ant'
s of nature and her laws, thutider and lightning to
him had supernatural origin, and indicated the
displeasure of the Master of Life.
" Behold," cried Mignon, "'the avenglida arm
f of God! He has 'turned his hand against you;
d he has smitten one of your brave's.  He is just,
- he does well; to him I comihend my soul. Red
o man, hear'his awful voice -and 'tremble!  is '
mighty car is rolling through theshies,  the
heavens, quakb.  He is over' our head  e' is
f seeing us-his irea are burning in' the air- ith
, 'dreadful vehermence."
-   While Mignon was speaking Iambedit fiaries
t darting from  above played around her- pale
cheeks.  Tallbear recoiled, ' conternelatin  het'
s with pallid visage and parted lips.
S    "fPaleface woman, thou art a great medicine! "
F he exclaimed.
t   "I am," she resumed, with more impressive
emphasis, "but a perishable creature 'like thee,
but I have skill in 'interpr tig the 'vill'of the
Great Spirit. I know what 'he 'desires of 'bis
children ; aria there is thet within that'telfsine
when his power*ill go forth 'in fedrfelffdiry to
rebuke' blood-thirsty warriors,' and :  y lo *aro-
gant chieftains. Tallbear, listen ! the Mstterf.of
Life threatens!' Hear' his stern 'menace in' the
affrighted 'heavens t"
The maiden paused, and peal oftcbal shook
the. mountains, while 'electrical  ash's blazed
blendingly around theirsutmnsits; streatning'down
into the valley below in rediliot chains:  ,
- It is thus," continued' -Mignon, with soleiit-
nity, " that the'God'f'the whitee .man and the
red manifests his'indignationsand l isriight!'!
'The" braved threwr'thtehselves prostrate itpmn'
the earl; Co'cring 'theft;ir" s with-theiribind 'k
Tallbear: n  'naie 'stariding, she bowet'hit
head ipon his breast seemissively.
White woman if tf6 I'M ter of Life s angry ,
what' shall Tallbear db'to thrn aside 'his 'dis'
pleasure !" heasked.  '

REEDPAT.


0

BED AT.

##I will ask him," said Mignon, closing her
eyes;and crossingher arms'upon her breast ; she
remained silent a' few moments, then addressing
the chief :
"The answer is (looking steadily at Tallbear),
offer normore :bloody sacrifices to the corn-spirit,
for there is but one God that presides over all
thingsgand he is -the Master of Life."
"Inquire yet again, and ask him what I shall
do with the paleface woman ?"
Mignon perceived that all depended on the
skilfulness of her reply; 'she had reached the
most delicate and critical point of her purpose.
She closed her eyes and crossed her arms again,
to gain time to form a fitting answer.
"F'ind a woman among your people who has
lost a daughter, and let her adopt this child of
the paleface," she said.
This reply was judicious, for the suspicions of
Tallbear might have been aroused; had .she de-
man    her liberty at once.
°'   1lsend forour medicine men, and they
shall fast three days and see if the Great Spirit
will confirm this," returned the Indian.
The Master of Life speaks but once to man;
he never repeats ." exclaimed Mignon, with a
dignity axed earnestness wondrous to Tallbear.
"IThat is well; he never repeats," 'he said,
then looking searchingly at his captive, added :
"And he never denies !"
"And he never denies," repeated Mignon, in
the same tone. "But it becomes the awful Deity
to remain silent when he has once declared his
sovereign will-to man."
"Speak again to the Great Spirit and ask if
the prisoner will attempt to escape ?",
Mignon saw at once the subtlety of this pro-
position.'
" Ihave done;" she said;,"his presence is
departing-his chariot-wheels are rolling over
- the mountains. Be content and humble. Speak
to )ae no'more-I am dumb."    Mignon turn-
ed her back to Tallbear, and assumed: her
former silent and .hopeless attitude. Tallbear
walked away and seated himself apart from his
braves, apparently in a thoughtful mood. t  .
Inv half an -hour the storm passed ; the rain
ceased falling, the thunder was heard ; faintly
rumbling at a great distance, while the lightning
blazed against the .far-off sky with diminished
brightness.
the party went on again, and in two hours
drew in sight-of a Crow village, in view of which.
they halted, it being their custom when they had

lost warrio-s not to enter their .village on their
return, without an invitation from the friends of
the slain. The dogs gave notice of their ap.
proach, and in a short time the sleepy natives
were astir, making suitable preparations to re-
ceive their warriors, who, after considerable de-
lay, were formally invited to enter the town.
Mignon, though, an object of much curiosity,
was treated with respect. - The tent which the
unfortunate Balaam had succeeded in securing
when his mistress left Callard's encampment,
was taken from the horse upon which it had been,
carefully packed, and set up for her exclusive
use by Tallbear, who clearly intended to treat
her with distinction until her fate should be de-
cided by the "medicine men."
The latter were called together early in the
morning. The chief made them acquainted with
his original intention of sacrificing Mignon to
placate the corn-spirit; with what subsequently
occurred during the storm of, thunder, and his,
own determination to refer the matter to those
skilled in the ways of the invisible powers.
"Now go,"'he adde, " and have lodges built
in some lonely spot, and fast according to your
custom, and thus learn the will of the Manito of,
your people."
Whether it was that the " medicine men" had
no relish for fasting three days, or whether they
believed they had been already instructed, we are
not able to avow; but they declared that the
Master of Life had enlightened their mindA in
dreams and visions ; and after a little time, if
left undisturbed, they would make known his.
wishes. The three medicine men accordingly,
withdrew to a lodge which every person was for-
bidden to approach. ,  recently Mignon heard
the sound of an Indian drum and frantic yells
proceeding from the lodge, and shuddered to
think such wretches were to decide her fate
They continued  their orgies some . hours---a
period of dreadful anxiety to Mignon, Who,
solitary in her tent, was awaiting the conclusion
of the rites.
Mignon's father was a Catholic ; but she had
been educated in the Protestant religion, in har-
mony with the views -of her deceased-,mother,
and she now sought the consolations of the
Christian faith. She petitioned God with that
contrite fervor that her condition -was so well
calculated to awaken,seeking that calm strength,
that unshrinking fortitude he only can itspart.-
" Daughter of the. paleface, come !". said a,
voice.   "

RED2PATH.

It was Tallbear who spoke ; he had come to
conduct her to hear the verdict of the med ejne
men. She found the Indians assembled on a
plateau near their village, in close neighborhood
to a large field of corn. She followed with mod
eat and melancholy mien,: her beauty and grace
attracting much attention and remark.  The
medicine men were in a circle formed by the
principal men of the village ; next the latter were
the braves, while the third and last ring was
composed of women and children-a motley,
clamorous rabble. When Mignon reached the
central circle where the three prophets were
awaiting her, Tallbear addressed them:
"What," he asked, "says the Manito of the
Crow nation ?"
"-That the love of life is strong, and all wish
to live to enjoy summer and sunshine."
Mignon heard the rejoinder, and though she
had made up her mind. for the worst, hope re-
vived a little. "Summer.and sunshine 1" These
words had a meaning they never before possess-
ed. She could not refrain from raising her eyes
toward the glorious luminary-the eternal lamp
of nature. The refulgent beams gleamed as
brightly upon her as in the days of her childhood,
before she understood the meaning of the word.
" death."  A gentle breeze from the west blew
on her face and toyed with her hair.
" 0, God !" she exclaimed, "why can I not
enjoythis forever!, Why hast thou placed the
grave before mortals, and called them to a bap-
tism of pain ?"
"Go on," said Tallbear.
"And he added, moreover," 'resumed the
spokesman of the medicine men, " that he speak-
eth in thunder and fire ; that he createth all
things, and causeth the Indian corn to grow."
" I am saved !" thought Mignon.'. " God will'
spare my youth!"
The prophet went on.
" But lest he might some time forget-the corn,
he has given it in charge of a -powerful spirit
whose duty it is to watch over it night and day.
The paleface woman has said that the Master of
Life- loveth not blood, butit was the God of the
white man that told her so."
" There is but one God !" said Mignon, who
saw her last hope passing away.,
"The red man does not serve the God of the
pale faces," returned the prophet. "Every na-
tion has its deity, and no, two are alike. We,
follow the voice of the Great Spirit, and no other
will we hear. Behold what he has given us !

61

Look at the boundless hunting-grounds, the
mighty plains, the shaded valleys, the green
forests which he has kindly bestowed upon us.
White woman, the Indian did not make himself,
but one greater than he made him with all his
instincts.: Can his nature change ? Can he be
other than he is ? Who faults him will fault the
great and eternal Master of Life. See me-re-
gard me-study me ! I am what I am, not be-
cause I had any voice in it, but because a will
stronger than mine existing before I had con-
sciousness, willed it so. My face is red--my na-
ture is not soft and weak like yours ; it does
not love cities and the arts of your people, it has
joy in the hunt and on the war path. And why?
Because it wasso' decreed. I am an Indian,
and I thank the Great Spirit that I am ! Thus
you see the power that created me reconciles me
to be what I am, therefore he is wise. It is so
with you. You will act true to your nature, and
I shall to mine. The manners and cus ns, of
nations differ. Our ways seem barbarou  you
and yours are contemptible to us.  Pale girl,
the corn-spirit is thirsty, we will give him drink."
"Last night the Great Spirit sent rain," said
Mignon.
" He drinks not water," said the prophet.
" 0, it is vain to struggle against fate !" ex-
claimed Mignon.
" Vain indeed !" added the Indian, in a deep,
sepulchral voice. " Could those towering moun-
tains have resisted the will, that placed them
there for a barrier between us and the sea ?
Could the snow have helped falling upon their
summits ? Could you have struggled against his
hand when he took up the dust to form you ?
Know, 0 fair daughter of a hated race, that all
things are ordered, and not anything can change.
It being destined that you shall die, how can
mortal power make you live? Cease to strug-
gle, and meet calmly a fate that you cannot re-
sist ; this is the lesson taught by everything in
nature. Because you are a woman, and your
flesh is tender and shrinks from pain, the Mas-
ter of Life sends you an easy death."
The prophet  nade a sign to Tallbear, who ap-
proached with a small cord composed of the in-
ner bark of a tree.
For an instant Mignon experienced a fearful
shrinking and a sickening agony of spirit ; but
conquering measurably her weakness, she looked
at the chief and demanded in a voice quite free
from agitation, "What is the manner of my
death ?"


62                       RDPA'T.

"It is quick and easy ; an arrow will pierce
your bosom, and you will be in the spirit-land of
your fathers before one of yonder clouds can
pass over the sun's face," he replied.
" It is well; I am ready, but do not mutilate
my person-bury my body on one df yonder
high cliffs where the same sun that shines upon
the wigwam of my father may shine on my
ashen," said Mignon, submissively.
Tallbear-came near to- bind her hands.
" Take away the cord; since there is to be no
torture, no protracted agony, to bind me were
useless. Tell me where to stand, and I will
present my breast to your marksman."
" Pale girl, you have courage," said Tallbear,
in a low tone. "I would save you if I could,
for your voice has a wondrous melody in it, and
your beauty is like that of the spirit-maidens in
the far land of souls. - Maiden, the arrow that
enters your bosom will give pain to the heart of
Tallb  . But the Great Spirit is wise. It is
better at you should be taken from my sight."
Then in a louder voice : " Daughter of theLong-
knives, we will not send you unprovided to the-
land of shadows, your horses shall go with you,
and your beautiful -lodge, that you may have a
horse to ride and a lodge to dwell in."
Tallbear waved his hand and the circling
horde of- warriors, women and children opened
before him.
"Look!" said he, pointing through the nar-
row lane thus made, "yonder are your horses,
and your lodge has been taken down and packed
upon them. When you reach the country of
spirits, you Will not have long to wait for your
horses; you will find everything as it was in
this world, and the black man with the strong
arms will be there to attend you; he is waiting
you now, when he sees your large horse he will
hasten to prepare him for your use, and he will
hang your little rifle at the saddle if you should
want to hunt the deer."
Mignon saw the animals at a short distance,
prepared as for a journey. The one she usually
rode, seeing his mistress, 'erected his . ears and
neighed; a proof of affection which called tears
to her eyes. With a parting glance at the noble
creature that had borne her uncomplainingly so
many miles, she submitted herself to the com-
mands of Tallbear.
"Place me quickly, and -let it be soon over,"
she said.        -
The chief led her to the centre of the circle.
"1This is the spot, here is a bandage to cover'

your eyes., Your heurt is not big enough to,
see the bow bent and the arrow pointed ; you
will shrink and-run away, or swoon with terror."
" I will do neither ; since -it is my duty to die,
I will die as becornes the daughter of the great
paleface nation !"
There was a general inurmur of approbation.
"It-is good," said Tallbear. Then in a whis-
per, "Never had the corn-spirit a more beautiful
offering. Your eyes are likeothose of the deer
when the hunter's knife is at its throat, hanging
over its small neck. - Pale girl, you have power
over Tallbear !"
The Indian gazed a- moment at Mignon with
a softened expression-his strong band trembled
while placing her in the attitude deemed fitting-
and more than once he hesitated and looked at
the horses'; some' half-formed purpose appeared
to agitate him.
" Maiden, be firm-the way to the land of,
souls is toward the west, and your swift horses
will fly like birds along the path."
With a heavy breath much like a sigh of re=i
gret, the chief left Mignon, who stood with her
face toward the open space in the circle. The
ribbon or scarf'of high-colored stuff which cov-
ered the *upper portion of her person, was suffer-
ed to fall a little upon the left side, while over
the breast she placed the gift of Ravenclaw-a°
raven wrought in beads.
" Let your bowman aim at this ; my heart is
beneath it," she said, with a calmness that sur.
prised the grim warriors, and raised another
hum of admiration.
A sinewy Indian walked through the living
avenue and-appeared at the margin of the se-
cond circle. He carried a long-bow in his right
hand,-which, -when held vertically beside him
with one, end resting upon the ground, reached
higher than his head. His quiver slung over
his bare and brawny shoulder, contained but a
single arrow pointed with bone.- He came with
a lithe and-dignified step, and stopping -at the
proper spot, stood erect before Mignon a few
yards distant.- , She heard this coming and there
was a quickened-motion of the snowy globe whieh
was to be his mark. He glanced inquiringly at'
-Tallbear ; the latter saw=him not; with 'folded
arms, compressed-lips, and heaving chest, he was
looking at Mignon. The red archer remainedriio-
tionless; suddenly Tallbear turned toward him ;.
his facewas flushed, there were beads of perspi-
ration ot his forehead,'he made a hasty gesture
.to the Indian who was waiting his- orders; he,

took the arrow from the quiver and fitted it to
the string. Mignon stirred not, trembled not,
though conscious of the movement. The archer
paused with the shaft levelled'at the figure of
the raven upon Mignon's breast ; he :waited
another signal when he would bend the tough
fibres of the sturdy wood, and launch the arrow
like lightning at the fairest mark man ever aim-
ed at. Tallbear was in the act of giving that
signal, and -the Indian was about to let fly his
fatal shaft, when a bright object gleamed mo-
mentarily in the air, and he fell forward upon
his face. Immediately, before a warrior had
moved, a grim and terrible figure bounded into
the circle ; hisull was bare to the bone, his
face black and 'streaked with blood; a savage
fury and determination marked his motions. He
caught Mignon in his arms, and with such a
look as the lion casts upon those who kill her'
young, bore her from the ring. No one spoke,
not a hand grasped a knife, gun, or tomahawk-
all tongues were mute, every warrior paralyzed.
Mignon was lifted to the back of her favorite
horse ; the reins were given her--she grasped
them-she felt herself in rapid flight, and one
who seemed to, her bewildered fancy like Ba-
laam, was at her side.
CHAPTER XI.
NEW ADVENTURES IN THE CANON.
BALAAM, it will be remembered, was stunned
by a hatchet hurled effectively at his head by a
warrior ; losing his seat, he finally sunk exhaust-
;d beneath repeated wounds. He remained in-
sensible a long time. The first premonition of
returning life was a consciousness of pain. He
became.sensible at last of some kind of an exis-
tence without the ability to connect the past with
the present, or to know where the thread of out-
er life had been broken. His head glowing with
a fiery heat, his eyes drowned in an abyss of
darkness, his stiffened tongue, his throat hot and
dry, a dull, weary motion of the heart made him,
conscious of misery only, without awakening
individualidentity.
But Balaam's vital powers were. strong and
able to resist much suffering; they prevailed at,
length over wounds and bruises, restored sight
to ,his swimmingvision, and activity to his brain.
He raised his head from the ground, the red
beams of the sunj' then at its meridian, glowing
into his face, extinguished for an instant his
newly restored sight.

Presently he arose to his. feet, he saw one of
Mignon's gloves lying near hirp, and it quicken-
ed at once the sluggish current of memory. The
thought of Mignon in danger absorbed him whol-I
ly, to the utter exclusion of himself, his wounds,
his wretched condition. He quenched his burn-
ing thirst at the nearest stream, and then took'
the trail of the savages with the eagerness of a'
hound that scents his prey. His iron frame dis-
dained its wounds, and his resolute soul, with
the updying faithfulness of the dog, scorned
physical pain and the gnawings of hunger. For-
tunately for him, most of his hurts were not of a
very dangerous character, the blow upon his head
with the loss of his scalp, being the most serious;
though his arms and, body were much hacked
and scarred by knives and other weapons.
Defying all' obstacles, Balaam tracked the red'
robbers who had' wrested away his :precious
charge, determined to save her or share her fate.
In what manner he was to deliver her .he did
not know- or even ask himself, 'so entirely were
his still disordered faculties occupied in the idea
of pursuit. He reached the Indian town at the
moment when Mignon's fate seemed decided.
He was going to throw himself upon the Indian
with the bow and, crush him with his giant.
strength, when a gleaming shaft passed him like
lightning, and the tawny. archer fell, stricken'
through the brain with a steel-headed arrow.
We have related what then occurred. The In-
dians, after the rescue of Mignon, took up the
dead body of the warrior and retired in silence to
their village.a It was to them evident that the
Great Spirit was not pleased with what they had
proposed.
Mignon and Balaam had not proceeded far be-
fore theydiscovered a party of men advancing,
that proved to be Captain Brion, Buckeye, arid
a select number of hardy 'mountaineers.- This"
sudden, meeting, together with the singular
plight of the black, - excited both inquiry and
surprise ; and the latter gave place to gratitude
when the startling experiences of Mignon and
the negro had been properly set forth. No one;
however, not excepting Balaam, was more thank-
ful than the partisan for the wonderful escape of
Mignon. -The revulsion of feeling was so great
with her, when she fully realized that she was
snatched from death and was safe with friends,
that she lost her consciousness. Brion being the
first to observe that she was fainting, caught lier
in his arms, thus, timely preventing a fall frot'
her horse. Balaam, too, now that the excite-

qw
BEX PATH.                      0

r
1
,1
tr
t
r
t


.EDPAT.

meant was over, felt the need of attention, and
the poor fellow was immediately attended to-
his wounds - dressed, his bravery praised, his
fidelity lauded.  The purifying and cooling
effects of water, and the comforting nature of
brandy, were speedily tested, in -his case, with,
the most happy effects. Hearty food was not.
allowed him, but 'he wras permitted to swallow a
portion of a biscuit with his arguardiente, when
his vivacity being measurably restored, he was
su-to utter several pleasantries at the expense
of his sca,lpless cranium. The necessary sanato-
ry operations having been attended to, the
mountaineers resumed their way toward the
canon in which the band had encamped the pre-
vious day. The partisan placed himself near.
Mignon, occasionally asking questions co'ncern-
ing her capture, referring to his own anxiety,
and detailing the efforts he had-made to find her.
The account of her rescue was to, him intensely
interesting. There was something perfectly in-
apprehensible in that transaction. The idea of
the mysterious Redpath was again evoked ; how
could it be otherwise Had not the evidences
of his presence been indubitable? ?^Unquestion-
ably, yes. There had been a death from an ar-
row in a manner that he had himself witnessed.
"Mademoiselle Bellmar," he said, "it would
appear that you owe your escape to the inter-
position of that ever-present creature, Red-
patht"
"My mind has been in such a world of ex-
citement and confusion since my unexpected es-
cape, that I have not yet reflected calmly ;"but
that I am indebted to Redpath, seems an inevita-
ble conclusion-a conviction that ,forces itself
upon me spontaneously, without the trouble of
reasoning," she replied.
"It would interest me, to' know what your
ideaM may be concerning this singular personage,
who has a marvellous power of ubiquity, cer-
tainly," Brion added.
Mignon paused to rally her thoughts.
" Hitherto," she answered, "my conceptions
of him have been quite, untinged with romance,
and practical to the last degree. I pictured him,
brave Brion, a wily savage gifted with a power
of cunning remarkable, even for his race, and
actuated by thpstrongest. feelings of vindictive-
ness. Fired with undying enmity, strengthened
with unnatural hate, endowed with dauntless
oo r ge, and aided by that fo-like cunning, he
has been able to cover his movements with-mys-
tery,,and make his name a word of terror."

" Those were your former views ; now your
present opinion, if you please?" ,
" My thoughts at this moment are so unlike
what they were, that I shall doubtless excite a
smile upon your lips,-Captain Brion. Redpath
is more like the eagle than the raven."
Brion's eyes rested upon. the figure of the
raven upon Mignon's breast at that moment, and
he said with a smile:
" But you-give the preference to the raven, it-
would seem?"
Mignon's cheeks assumed a deeper red.
",Yes, I wear the raven, but' I shall attempt
to impose on my imagination and think it an
eagle," she replied. " Redpathh as I said, is
more like the eagle than the raven. He has eyes
that are bold and piercing, that dare the sun to
dazzlethem. He has a front like the god of war.
His features are noble, his manners lofty and'
proud. Redpath is tall and stately as the cedars
of Lebanon. With' other men he is like Saul
among the prophets. His tread is firm and fear-
less. He speaks but little, and his words are
commands. He reads the destiny of the red man;
he sees the coming supremacy of the ;white, and
the destiny of the Indian.. He'  knows that the-
way of his people is over the mountains and to-
ward the sea-and toward oblivion. The thought
of the extinction of a great nation like his,
through the injustice of the palefaces, maddens
him ; his noble soul swells with emotions inex-
pressible, and he invokes the vengeance of the
great and awful Master of Life."
While Mignon was thus describing Redpat,
she stopped near a swamp of inusquite, and Brion
dismounted to adjust her saddle-girth.,
" Did you not bear a Sound ?" he asked, turn-
ing toward the musquite.  -
Mignon was already looking in that direction ;
she replied with some embarrassment : "A slight
disturbance among the leaves, occasioned  I
imagine, by yonder prairie-dog, which our voices
frightened from his shelter." But Mignon, in
this instance, was not quite ingenuous ; she had ,
seen, while Brion was employed with the girth,
and at the instant she' was finishing her descrip-
tion, the tall form of Ravenclaw. He stood in
the musquite in an attentive attitude, as if listen.
ing to the tones of her voice. . He cast upon her
a look of mingled melancholy and pride, and
she saw him no more.
"Ah," quoth Brion,' rather drily, "you make
a hero of Redpath."
"But what can you expect, my friend, from a

REDPATH.

giddy girl who owes her life to this same per-
sonage2"
"0,' thought the partisan, "it should {have
been I who saved this charming woman !"
"You have painted him with the colors of
the novelist; but I will not cavil, inasmuch as
he deserves unmeasured commendation for what
he has done. Redpath nrthis has done me a
good service, also," Brion answered.
In what manner has he been of service to
you, Captain -Brion ?.                -
"Had you suffered the fate intended for you,
I should never cease to reproach myself," said
the mountaineer.
"And why ."
"For t'he simple reason that I did not care
for you better after you put yourself under my
protection ; it was in me, criminal neglect, for
which I most earnestly ask your pardon."
"I.cannot absolve you from a sin whi  you
never incurred. Please to remember that I posi-
tively refused your escort to the camp;p therefore
if blame there be, it necessarily falls on me.
"I see well where my error was, and even
your ingenuous kindness cannot make me for-
get 't. From  this hour it shall 'be my special
preIogative to attend to your safety; it shall be
the first, the greatest, the last of my duties so
long as you shall think proper to honor me with
your presence and confidence."
"Thanks-thanks I You will well discharge
the self-imposed. duty ; but let me'entreat you
not to neglect more important matters for the
sake of a truant maiden, whose erratic wander-
ings expose her to the charge   of female
quixotism."
"Chastisement to him   who has the pre-
sumption to make that or any other charge of a
reproachful character 1" exclaimed Brion, with a
menacing motion of the hand. "He who couples
your'name with aught that is unbecoming, shall
feel the anger of Ben Brion !"
"And that," said Buckeye, who now joined
the parties, "is no slight thing, accordin' to mny
views of human natur."
"I trust my humble name wl not give rise
to aught'unpleasant," said Mignon, with heigh-
tened color.
"~Your name, miss," quoth -3uckeye, "shall
be the watchword of the camp. By the beard of
Joe Smith I them as hasn't no particular religion
'miong us, shall prayto you !"
"I fear I shall prove a poor, dumb divinity,"
returned Mignon, laughing.'

'65

"I sha'n't put up my petitions to nobody
else I" rejoined Buckeye. "When I feel like
worshippin', 'I want somethin' I can see."
" You are a materialist," said Brion.
"I should be a-good Christian, I reckon, if I
allers had somethin' lovely in the woman-line
'bout- me; it softens the rough side of my na-
tur---the nor'west, mountainous side which has
allers been uncultivatedd and neglected."
"'Will you be good enough, Buckeye, to re-
peat me one of the prayers you intend to make
use of"" requested the mountaineer.
" Well, cap'n,.it would be oncommon like the
one I beard you sayin' in your sleep, not'long
ago,        '}
" You, are talking at _random !" protested
Brion, palpably disconcerted.
. "There's two things I never do-I mean talk
at random or shoot at random. But as to the
prayer, it should 'commence somewhat in this
fashion. '0, Mignon, a rude old sinner entreats
you never to leave him, that there may be some-
thin' lovely and good allers near to apologize for
the rest of human natur."'
S" Not so bad," said Brion.
" Come, sir, desist I" interposed the divinity
of this prayer. Then to Buckeye: "I trust that
you mean me well, and intend no disrespect.",
"If I mean you any otherwise than well, may
I be-scalped !" cried Buckeye, bluntly.
" I can vouch for his goodness of heart, Miss
Bellmar.- He has given himself not a moment's
rest since your disappearance, and looked for the
trail of your captors as earnestly as if you had
been his own child."
"There's a heap of malice in ye, cap's'! I
aint old enough to be the girl's father, no ways,
and the innooendo isn't altogether friendly," .-
plied the trappers gravely.
" 0, I am - sure you are not old I" added
Mignon.
"'Sartinly not. Here's Flash; I'll leave it to
Flash ; and Flash has known mis longer 'n any
of ye. Come, Flash, what do you say ?"
"It's well for you, he can't speak," said 'the
partisan, good-humoredly. "A strange, tale he'd
be telling !"  -
" Do you hear him, miss I He's afeard I hall
become a favorite with you, as I shall, if I Ave
long enough."
"I have 'you in much favor, now,". repled
Miss -Bollmary playfully.
In pleasant conversation the parties beguiled
the tedium of the returning trail. .By the .mid-

As l


. REDPATH.

die of the afternoon they were within a few miles
of the canon.
Life seemed more precious to Mignon than at
any previous period of her existence. -The sun,
the skies, the earth presented new attractions and
beauties hitherto unappreciated., She marvelled
that she had ever beheld them with feelings of
indifference. "Glorious world !" -she mentally
exclaimed, "I shall not yet leave thee. " shall
dwell with and in-thee, and experience formany
years, perchance, the'munificence of provident
nature."
Hearing words of salutation from Buckeye,
she looked up and perceived that two persons
on horseback had joined the party.
'  "Ah," said Brion, who kept his place at her
side, " here is an addition to our numbers."
"And you will do well to be -on your guard.
Ohe of those .approaching is the specialinstru-
sment of; Mariot-a half-breed, whose name is
,Gardette, generally known, I believe, by his In-
dian name of Beavertaker; while the other is no
-less a personage than Captain Calnard, the par.
tisan of a band of trappers," said Mignon.
"I know them, mademoiselle. 'That provi-
deuce which reaches to the wilderness, and be-
yond those mighty mountains even, has made
me acquainted with those now advancing," re
turned the mountaineer.
"6Whatever may be the nature and design of
their visit, I trust you will remember, captain
that I am under your protection," Mignon added,
with considerable agitation of manner.
"Icertainly will not forget a, circumstanc
affording me so much pleastire."
VIneed not admonish you to be-firm."
"In your cause such admonition is unnecessary
But'sere they are."  .   ' --
"Captain Brion, I believe ?"'said Callard, ad
dressing the mountaineer. ,
"I am thus called," said the latter.-
"I think we met many years ago," resume
the former, "tut, this precarious life of our
changes the human face, you know4".
"The extremes of heat and cold, hunger ani
thirst, and hardship, all set their mark upon th
features." Brion answered. During: tle tim
this rejoinder, occupied, Callard was, lookin;
furtivelyat Mignon..
"But," added Brion, " though exposure an
suffring may roughen the features, j trustit wi
never change the heart of an honest.trapper."
"No, assuredly;; at least I hope not, in you
case," returned Callard."

" I believe I have a clear conscience. I have
tried to make it my study to act the man of
honor. Now will you be kind enough to inform
me to what lucky chance Iowe the honor of this
visit 1"
Disconcerted by the suddenness of this request;
Callard exhibited much embarrassment.
" That I have to, say,' Captain Brion, is pro-
bably more proper for your private ear," he
rejoined.
" If there is aught in your message to make a
lady blush, I do not wish to hear it. The young
woman that you see near me may safely be made
the repository of the most important secret that
can be entrusted to human keeping."
"But if the subject to be discussed ' concerns
this young lady herself, you perceive that it may
alter the ease ?"  ,
"Nof at all ! speak what you have been cop-
missi ed to at once and in her hearing. If it
concerns her, why then she is the'party most in-
terested, and has a right to-be present."
" I will throw aside disguise at once," sid
Callard. " This lady is Mademoiselle Bellmar,
who left the roof of her aged father in the garb
of a youthful adventurer, and. joined company
with me at Fort Leavenworth. The fact of her
sex having transpired, she clandestinely left my
encampment."A
f " Had she not a right to do so!"
" Under ordinary circumstances she had an
undoubted right to govern her own movements ;
but this, you will readily apprehend, was a pecu-
e liar case. It was my duty as well as my design
to send her back to herfather under a safe escort.
It was an unwillingness to return that unques-
tionably induced her to withdraw from my pro-
tection."
"You cannot imagine that Miss Bellmar has
not a will or purpose of her own?"
"Certainly ; she has too much will, and as to
d her purpose, I will not wound her delicacyby
a referring to it."
"Nor need you; I know it already."
d " That she entered on this wild enterprise to be
e near her lover, may be admitted without com-
e promising her womanly instincts ; but there is no
g accounting for that caprice that induced. her to
fly from him, wien to all human appearance it
d was quite unneedful."
"With delicate questions of this nature, it ill
becomes you and I.to meddle. She will herself
tr regulatehey speech andconduct in regard to such
matters."

REAPATH                                      67
"Allow the chivalrous captain to proceed; -he the side of Mignon, when the excited partisan,
has learned well his .lesson," said Mignon, with rising in his stirrups, unhorsed him in a moment
disdainful calmness.                      of time.
"I insist that there was nothing unaidenly  " By the beard of the prophet Smith ! If
in her conduct when it i$ considered that-she has there's fightin' to be done, I go in for it.!" shout-
from her infancy been, ergaged- to l onsieur ed Buckeye, galloping Flash to the spot. "Let
Mariot, and her marriage was arranged to take me strike this here feller, cap'n !" Before Brion
place immediately afterhis return from  his could grant or refuse the boon asked, the trap-
p    texpedtion."                         per pressed hard against Callard, and gave him a
"You are not only ingenious but ingenuous !" most ungentle push with the muzzle of his rifle.
exclaimed Mignon, while the blood mounted in-  "Forbear !" cried Brion. " Let there be no
dignantly to her cheeks. "Whatyou intimate quarrel with him."
is both base and false. Pierre Mariot is the  The captain meantime drew a pistol and Buck-
most.contemptible of men!"                eye grasped his wrist to take it from him, when
"He is your father's partner;mademoiselle !"  it was accidentally discharged, wounding him
"To his regret and mine."               (Buckeye) slightly in the arm, The ball passed
will not cavil, but come to the point. My so near Mignon that it grazed her neck, but
present purpose is to conduct the daughter of my happily did her no harm.
employer back to my camp."                  " Captin Callard, a struggle with us 7l be
"She will act her pleasure," added Brion.  useless, and can but result in injury to yourself.
"mI shall remain where I am. And I com- Go at.once, and think no more of the projects of
mission you to assure Pierre Mariot of my un- Pierre Mariot," added Brion.
measured scorn," said Mignon.               "Go yonder with me, sir, and I will settle
In case of your refusal, I am charged-to act this Matter with you with the bowie-knife or the
against your wishes-foryour own good."   rifle," returned Callard, thrusting tile'empty pis-
"That means to capture my person, and take tol into the holsters.
me toPierre Mariot by brute strength?"     " Captain Brion, if you have any regard to
"It implies some degree of force, of course, my wishes, do not listen to such a brutal pro-
Miss Bellmar, which rudeness I hope you will postal !" said Mignon, earnestly.
attribute solely to zeal for your happiness. This  "I have no cause of quarrel with you, and
sudden aversion, believe me, will soon give therefore decline your offer," said the partisan.
place to your former feelings. Do me the honor  " That is a manly answer," asserted Mignon,
to accompany me  "                       encouragingly.
"mCaptain Brion," said Mignon, "I have no - "Had Pierre Mariot given me such a challenge,
rto say to this man. To you I commit the I would not have refused him satisfaction; but I
guardianship of my person."               have no wish to slay a man withwhom until this *
" Thecaptain has too much sense, young lady, hour I never exchanged a dozen words, and who,
to meddle with an affair that does not concern to my knowledge,,never injured me."
him, but rather tends to disconcert his plans for  "As you will,".returned Callard, choking down
wth noeing campaign," Callard Answered, his anger. "I am only carrying out the wishes
With increasing confidence.               of my employer, urged on by the hope of restor-
"Ah, weshall see," quoth Brion.         ing this fair lady to the arms of her father."'
Beavertaker-this way," said Callard, call-  " She chooses to return under safer escort than
ing to the half-breed, who was in the rear a few Mariot's, and this affected zeal is not in keeping
paces. " Takethe lady's horse by the bridle."  with your conduct. As :long as Miss Bellmar
"Back, you scoundrel !" cried Brion. " Cap- chooses to remain under my protection, no power
twn Callard, egone! I cannot longer keep on earth shall restrain her inclinations."
down my indignation I Your insolence is past  " One would be disposed to think, that the
all patience  h d-                       days of knight-errantry are reviving; but this
"You have heard my instructions, Captain foolish obstinacy- on your part may be pro-
,       e refuses to go-I must take her."  ductive of serious results. Since you  will not
"n You will take my life first !" retorted Brioh, listen to reason, I must leave you and rest the
Beavertaker attempted to   hi            termination of thpmatter with Mariot. I think,
.d to pass to reach captain, you will hear from this affair again,

I

/

_~ .- ..
-. ,

._
" ,    *
;
,t
=
. k
'r
:
(a
.


and in a manner at variance' with your interest
and wishes."                               d
Callard-rode away in bad humor, followed by
the halt-breed.                            e
" That man means to be dangerous," remark-
ed Buckeye.. o
"If he suffers himseif,to be led by Mariot,
yes," Brion replied., ti
At that moment a man came to tell the par- o
tisan that Balaam was overcome with sleep, fa- t
tigue and exhaustion, and was in danger of fall- p
ing from his horse, The mountaineer instantly f
ordered a halt,,and the black being disposed of c
in a comfdrtable- position, slept, heavily till s
dark. Brion had given orders to go forward e
again, when a firing was heard in the direction p
of the canon. Mignon was the, first to mark p
the sound, and looked inquiringly at the cap- 
tain. The latter was assisting her to the' sad.
dle ; when she was seated he enjoined silence, c
and going to a small knoll, turned his practiced c
ear in the direction of the ominous disturbance.7
There vas a heavy volley and then a dropping
fire which continued. Brion- .came back in av
few minutes.                           '
" The Indians have attacked our camp," he]
said. Buckeye and the whole party confirmed
his opinion.,
"Yes," asserted the former, "the heatheni
riptiles are at their old tricks again. Many and
many a time have I heard that kind of 'firing
when the oncivilized buffalo-eaters were astir.
They'll never be content and mind their busi-
ness as long's there's a hoss to steal, or a white
trapper's camp to plunder. I allers go in for a
skrimmage when they make themselves too free
in that war. Flash is great in a rmnnin' fight,i
but not quite sel handy in -a reg'lar bush tussle,
where the red niggers skulk from tree to tree."
Balaam approached much refreshed, singing
about a venerable relative "who had no -wool
on the top of his head, in the place where the
wool ought to grow."  '
- 'That's a game cretur," continued Buckeye.
" Nothing' seems to break him down, though
one might nat'rally think that the loss of his
night-cap is a solemcholly' affair, calkillated -to
check  s happy flow of sperits."
" Go on in dat strain, Buffaloeye," quoth Ba-
laatn, with an exhibition of ivory.
"You hear that firing , 'don't ye, Bill-em'
Well, the Ingins have come back arter the rest
of your scalp," said Buckeye, in a' bantering
tomO

" Go 'long, Bullseye ! don't spose yer limited
ldication!" retorted Balsam.
" The firing continues and grows more spirit-
d," sai the partisan.'
"Ho* are we to reach the camp ?" 'inquired
ne of the trappers.
" That is yet to be determined, and an under
king which may be attended with danger. If
ur friends are.surrounded by Blackfeet, it cer-
ainly'will not be easy to get to them. It is
possible, however, that the attack may be con-
ined to one side, in which case we can join our
omrades without much difficulty.   The real
tate of affairs must be learned by one experi-
need iid woodcraft, while the rest remain at a
prudent distance until the thing is settled. If
racticable, we will go to the camp, if not, we
must be governed by circumstances."-
" That's advised like an old mountaineer,
eap'n,", said Buckeye. "A better arrangement
wouldn't be made, considerin' the circumstances.
There bein' a woman with us, that woman
must be pertected, cost what it may. If there
was none but masculines 'mong us, why we
might cut our way to camp through a host of yaller
Ingins ; but as I have said, it isn't so ; there's
one here that must be defended to the last."
"We will proceed to the timber yonder, which
is near the canon, where I will leave you in
charge of the Cnen for the protection of Made-
moiselle Bellmar,, while I reconnoitre the condi-
tion of the camp. -Judging by the continuous
fire, there is a determined conflict going on, with
the advantage of numbers on the side'of the
enemy."
The partisan, w ing given other premonitory
instructions, set forward on foot for the scene
of the fight, while. his little band of trappers,
with Mignon, took shelter in the timber.
Brion approached the canon by the most ob-
scure way, covered by- pinon and cottonwood.
He pushed warily on until he was able to com-
mand a tolerably good vievr of the spot ; or
more properly a position where in broad daylight
he could have looked along its entire length';
but darkness now hung over the cliffs, relieved
lyy the flashes of fire-arms only, as the Indians
fired down from their hiding places at the trap-
pers below, and the latter replied by the sharp
crack of theirrifles. The mountaineer perceived
that the attacking party was large, for the sides
of the canon were occupied in every accuisible
place, a blaze leaping from  every projecting
ledge and rock, frpm every cleft and hole.

Entering the canon, Brion made such a dispo-  'cI think.you.will hayt  is      o
sition of the trappers as -at length repelled the horse' It appears  o  e tassst me m
attack of theBassailants, after a most obstinate consousaes                pg
resistance. Having restored comparative qiet   The partisan -s
he set out on his return to the timber where he lg    insprangfroms      sle enadik-
had left Migpon when he went to reconnoltre the upon a grassy knoll.
camp.   e had passed the most perilous portion  "My mouth is b
of the caion,' when an Indian suddenly rose hear the running of a stream?"br gi   i , In
from behind a rock with upraised tomahawk: guidly. The mountaineer ta se saign
With sudden presence of mind Brion parried from the leathern wallet or valise, atdinaklie
the descending weapon, and dashed his gun and hastened t look  fr the    et hs  ab-
against.the Indian's head and brought him to blind  was audible  e  the rve     o
the ground. ie felt for his hatchet, but a feel- and Mi rank.               with water,
ng of mercy pro ipted him to hesitate. He     " Thankshanks I    ow
gazed in the grim face of the warrior a mme, su        ' tans    $ao  kindly  s intre tp,
and slowly tegi  footh  rio r    breut, supply our wants.  What so grateful as this
an  lwytaking his foot from, his breast, ,said pure beverage 4to the p are .lip I"
gently, "Arise! I could have taken your life, edreterniage the pa    l      she repsark-
but I will not. Depart in peace i". The India   rnmde
arose, walked s few paces, and turning aid, warningy Tade    ot wbheldt  p hrswe
"ion of the Yan-kee, Blackbird will not forget rstinwaagl ae  eat heorether partieswere
this,"  Then moving silently along the cnnon the n Oa     thear the northern ent   e
he said, "son of the Yan-kee, adieu."       treescanon.sOnrthat side negtthe .;eanttgh
When Brion had nearly' reached the timber     -were sparse and :   tesmallhrowth;r bh
shouts and pistol shots fell on hisg er. Qhick- pra r ," s aigh and the .shruIberye th
ening his speed, he soon saw a confused mass of motio  r  said roy fI seethe grrese
human figures fighting hand to hand, and  gig- ing through its.e"                   eep
non surrounded by a circle of trappers defendin
her with desperate courage against formidable ed Mignon.     u                  ec     '
numbers of Indians. With dauntless daring he   "
made his way among them, and forced the cue-   The m
my to yield ,wherever .he appeared, and they some of huntaeer looked around to se    if
finallWerenot in sight, .lut not one
finally left the field. The little party mounted  of th  a torby seen  e sigheb  a ont
and galloped towards the canon, which they en-. longer thea eculiar motion  f thed a that
tered soon after the moon had arisen. But the excited h  pc   ion
Indians gathering in the cliffs above the canon  "It is tuei    xTh
threatened by theirnumber to overwhelm them, hounds have scenteducsli    . . " Teee
Brion sought a place of greater security where tuning to Mignen, uMssa  enar Ieaded
he might place Mignon, while the other trappers life itsel inonf' i   111r,ncel"
were engaged in repelling a new attackiAnd ;the  "Generous defender! Ihopeyob our is  t
partizan found himself alone with her,      yet. Cas yrour defende abu you, 70 hour i  e
Beitg thus thrown together, every moment avenue of escape is not yoen"   d
was freighted with interest. The partisan cared  "I thinkeae isuo pen.?
not te speak much,; he was better content to latin  we aresurrone;     u ne eonso-
gaze silently at  ignon, whose features in the  "What is ined
soft moonlight reflected a spiritual beauty.   " It is t .vmged Mion, faintly ,
"Has not the firing ceased?" she asked.       Exte    pr   vi  on t         a
-In the canon, yes," said Sri, -«but when    "T   de for yin ty.
the  n.n is higher,:it will 'be resumed again,  '"No n or 7wi no  dep
=.nquestigngply.'                                    n,   wl   of wcept ,omserice   '
g quetny"                              ' at -once;, escape w'4eysmny
Pat.ent:withme, my friendbut I:belle ,mp'fate!"scapi g  9npayia,d   x
my pyjeed powerea quite exhausted."       men"Isi           on,npaee g y     +C
"Nora eit aingulat tat such shouldd be the  The partisan smiled,'but scorned  el
cas.                             t havep   togh extordinar  such a proposition.  calmfacevn l.okd
sohandsome as then to  Migeon,'
5j                                                     nU

'4

0

68

REDPATH.


9                                                I

70'

/

R P ATH.

"Ah, it is vain to-urge such a consideration  "I seek not your life; if I did, no6earthly
upon your You are firm-you will not go; I power could save you," rejoined the Indian.
read it in your eyes, on your lips)"  .Mg added D~g  Sp eak not" so' Proudly ; we are but mani to
nona itibdus voice.  u i               man, and I think at this moment that the ad-
"nou ar egtaeht; I would not leave yu if a vantages with me:
thousand warriors were each thirsting for my  "Look!" added the Indian, waving his hand
blood, and saot tnde a vow to give me a and emitting a sibilant sound. fBrion cast his
wolud."'                                  eyes around and saw scores of red faces- arising
w                            about him as if from the earth.
ecause'it~is man's dutty to protect woman,  "Lost !" exclaimed the partisan; but Mig-
at al places, under all conditions."        non, though conscious, wastoo much agitated to
"is ,the r no other- taon?"               speak; she had covered her eyes that she might
Drion's hitherto placid face was suddenly agi. not see the dreaded visages of the savages.
tated; but 'he-struggled panfally to regain his " Son of the white man, you need not look for
cordpbsure.. those who left you not long                             go ; they are pris
" Do you wishine to be perfectly' frank ?"  oners," said the Indian.
"Does the awful danger that encircles us war- "I ask nothing for myself; prepare your tor-
raut aught liut theimosteintire candor"     tures; but spare this maiden " exclaimed the
'"'vidently, no ; but I will say no more until mountaineer.  tav
I have made yet another effort to save you."  "You do well not to ask mercy of Ravenclaw'
'he motaaineer raised Mignon from the you shall both share the same fate. The nature
ground and plaed her in the saddle.; Mounting of the red man is cruel !" returned Ravenclaw,
his oWnhorse, and entreating her to. bear up yet with loftyirony.
little longer, he took her bridle rein and moved  - Mignon enclosed her eyes and fixed th  upon
toward an opening at'the Western margin of'the  Ravenclaw.    f        '     /
glade, which seemed to otfer the only chance of  "Lilyface, you are free," he said, th dignity.
escape. He and his faircompanion had galloped  And this brave man-i he ot ree also ."
but a few rods before be perceived that the open  "lie .dies " replied the Indian, col hiy.
space led directly to the canon, and the ground  "So will all men die, brave  chief.  while
was toorough to be traversed by horses.     Mignon was speaking, she. took the figure of
We seem' to be indeed lost," said Brion. the raven from her bosom and fastened it to
1'But lets dismount I can carry you in' my Brion's breast.
s"                                            "That saves but one life," said Raenclaw
" Do not burden yourself with me, my friend! * ."Let it be his, then. Son of theEagle,I am
'"it iot me you may elude the savages."     your captive.r        ie
"A burden you will not be. Come, let us     Ravenclaw remaif-edlsilen  o  ent, then
hasten alongthe Canon. Ah, but they are very turning to the grinm circles of braves, said, an-
near !. Do you not hear those yells ? It will be thoritatively :re
'a pleasure t defend you, and a pleasure to die " Warriors, release your prisoners, and reurn
with ou   Mignon, I love youl"             to your lodges."na
" hen death will Unite us forever !"        He did not speak again unileveryred face had
'death to one wil b'e' welcome. Mignon, you vanished..  a
are dearer to me than life!"                  "Ilyface, you and your people -      d I
"Mg friend, :'am yours in life or death, as have saved them; yet the re man is cru
God may order. We will not be separated."   his nature is stern like flint 1"
The parisiaitook Mignon from her horse, and  Then to Brion                        he
pressing her to .his. heart, was bounding away, -s" on of the'  oflald, go your way.  The
when duskyfigare appeared in his path. Sup- daughter of t i     be h    ien k   o
Irs     hejrapeda ea~andsavd        our tra ppers     'he knives of
ring h With his left arahersped a wea-andavedyo            PP
p   wit  is right                          theBlac    etrves.Thank the Gteatpin    t
"Son of the paleface, forbear " said a deep, that he has, not illed yi tonight gononthe
clvi.    '       ' ' "                 tong rai..tof the l and'. of soit.. Go and take the~
cal i 100.                                   g                 a-d, x ul :   'o alotted
S esit me, aidyou die "' criedfBrion, *hose otter and: the beaeand flfl yu  e
pistol was aimed at the tall, motionless form. mroons on the earth."

U

71

With a gesture of indescribable dignity, 1a- fluenced by presents andinflamnlatory speeches),
venclaw walked rapidly from sight, while JSrion to attack the trappers encamped in the Canon,
and Mignon gazed after him in breathlesasilence, which he did ; ;while Kincaid, in the disguise of
almost in awe.                             an Indan, led sandtherparty against Briqu for
the purpose of withdrawing Mignon, ftpnm her
CHAJ'TER X1,                 protection, in accordance with the wishes of his
k   N                           employerART.  Mariot..
MIGNONAN.The failure of this schmeto,obtain the person
.PmnE $ MARIoT   was .possessed of dogged of Mignon was a vexatious disappointmentt, -but
perseverance when in pursuit of a coveted ob. from which he soon recoveredto concoct a new
j3ct. Opposition sharpened his eagerness, and one, incwhich Headley'was to bear some part,
difficulties quickened.his energies. Ifhis intent influenced by, bribes and promises.
was bad, it mattered not ; the same obstinate;, "Remain encamped in this vicinity uneiU
firmness marked his movements.: , is unexpeet- have -captured this truante dasgsel,  d ,I wrn give
ed repulse by Mignon aroused this perverse prin. you such an outfit asyopusneed for the long march
ciple in his nature, and subsequent events put 'it before you," said Mariot to ,eadigg
into full action. The motives that induced her  The intended plan failed, and Mariot now.en-
flight from Westport were to him, at first, pro. deavored to work upon Headley, to:league w$i
found mysteries ; mysteries, too, which he was him in his purpose to secure the person of Mig.
feverishly anxious to petietrate, Her escape: non. He gradually prepared. him, by an artful
from his camp, and from that severe espionage detail of such a story ashe pleased, and a pro.
which he intended to exercise over her, disap- longed conversation followed in which;Mariot
pointed, while at the same time it provoked him. 'developed so n ch of his,' plansto his aecom-
That Mignon would put herself under Brion's police as he deemed prudent. These plans we
protection, he was quite sure; and immediately will not now detail,-as they hwillbe k
upon the discovery of her flight, conferred with subsequent events. Inthe 'esntine we will re.
Callard in regard to the best means of again ob- turn to Mignon.,
taming control of her person, while Beavertaker  Attended by the part sa and the trappers who
was sent to watch the movements of the rival. had beenrtaken and reused by the ndians by
band, with instructions to report what he saw as ,the orders of Ravenclawr shesoon had: the sat-
often' as practicable. He returned at noon on isfaction of reaching a place where she couldob-
the ensuing day, with the, startling intelligence tainthat rest she so much needed.
that:Mignon had',probably been captured by the  But new and powerful emotions agitated her
'ws, and that Captain Brion had started in heart ; she prayed, she wept, and $p
p   uit with a picked party of trappers. Be eredlby fatigue, sank to sleep to pass tHugh
mae the discovery-by overhearing a- few: words again many of the scenes of the last forty-eight
whfle concealed in the bushes near the encamp- hours. When she awoke she saw the sunbeams
ment of the mountaineer, bit the particulars creeping in through the apertures of the tent,
were unknown to him. This news- perplexed and knew that her slumbers must have 'been.e
Mariot not a little, but he settled the matter-after tracted. - She felt no disposition, to rmover and
some,,reflection, in.this manner : Brion was un. recalled all that hadrecetly transpired In the
deniably both' bold and experienced, and would proper order of each particular incident. She
rescue Mignon-if rescue were possible-'-with- renuentbered, too, as a last link in the chain of
out his aid or co-operation; 'hence he need only events, that something unusual had  e
remain quiet and await the issue. Upon this tween herself and Captain Drion; the recoilec
policy he acted. Through theinstrumentality of tion heightened the color Qf her cheeks, and
the half-breed, he. was informed on the:follow- quickened the pulsations of hey heart. Sheas.
ing day, of the youniglady's rescue, and that she ed if her conduct had been suc as became her
was being conducted.to the canon by the brave.,set and situationl   f she de a deported
partisan. It was then that Callard was sent with with digicowatnedeicacy   the     4
the message, whichas we have seen, was:treat. that she could answer yes.wthatolerable clear
ed as it deserved by Xignon and the captain.  cQnscience, but fearethat mathrerthoughti
Beaverteker was then instructed to instigate. bringcoaviefionless flattering.
the: Blackfeet. warriors (whose minds he had in  "Come/said Brion, "s ypu have not-break

REPPATE


SPAT}.7

fasted, you niust-test the skilfulness of an ld
Freic voyageur's cookery, not so varied, per-
chanegas the fare to which y'o hav been ae-
casto cad, but which I trust you will not-find
wholfr 'iapalatable
Nignon followed the pai-tisan to the open 'air.
Beneath the cooling shade of an overhanging
C  upon a small i     lss tot,'as 'arranged the
simple cookeryt  iwich Bripn had referivd,'con-
siatgngof tender 9'vison prepared in the best
of-trapper stylessno'hard biscuits, and the lux-
ury of coffee, an unpiatendin 'meilwhieh they
cheorfuly discussed..
'We have doinetimes'wished thatlovers might
rendwn lovers to the end of' their lives; and thus
secure the pleasiresof a continual affection ting-
ed with that novelty, freshness and expectation
that tend the t&amp;atsakening of that gentle
9y the beard of the Prophet'Smith !" ex-,
claimed Buckeye approaching Brioh.
"   ell"said hepgtisaninquiringly.
" Who d you suppose is lookii '"for youn?
Brion regled that le  ulr not tell.
* r it,1your old fiend, Hedey," quoth the
trape , with his sccustomed shrug.
"Ah !" said Brion. "What does jhe want ?"
"Beaves and etes" i I aint 1n his confi-
dence I What's morefI-don't want td'eb. The-
truth isI haven't nfaith inthe cretur. There's
a kink:inhis dispersition that I can't straighten
out, no ways. Depend on it, cap'n, there'd sun-
shin'a in t &amp;lnd'!"3
"Possibti not; it's our duty to be charitable,
you know. Where's no man too bad 'thathe
has not same good in him." .
"Wha ye  n find the good spots in Headley,
wish 'you'd jes' clap your finger on 'en, or-
make 'a-chalk mek acrost 'em, so they'can be
diskivred by comidion eyes. Accordin' to my
nOtions of human' making' up, there were a few'
engredientslei oit, at the'time of his airthly
c     position; one of then articles was honesty,
sich eon e wh1hle is rathe- important in cre-
atisi a kuxnau bein'."
es, certainly  honesty ought to be remem-
bered, fend Buckeye."
fBt inthis ease it was totally disremember-
e; but here h   ie coes and yon cansnake ane
or les obi "ini, je8 A6the notiontakes you."
'yTelspasan~       already watching the yp-
*pra h =.eadley v indering what the object
of his, visit might 'be. :'ihe mutinous tIaper
dte*      it with adowacast look.

"Captain Biion," he said, penitently, "I
have no right to expect a fiendly rec'ption from
one, *hom I fear, I have treated'-very-unhaid-
somely."
"Your conduct, Mr. Headley, has been well
calculated to forfit my g#ood will, and your
presence in camp cannot be regarded by me as a
very welcome event,"returned Biion, coldly.
'  expected such a reply ; my behaviour has
merited severe reproof. Icame prepared to'-hear
your reptoaches patiently, and to confess'that I,
deserve them," returned °ehdley, 'in, the same
humlile tones.'
," By the beard of Smith, yes 1" said Buckeye,
in a suppressed voice.'
"Before you:say  iore, let me ask why are'
you here ?" resumed Brion,'with considerable
sternness.
"To acknowledge frankly, captain, 'that I
hake' beenin fault, and to beg' to 'be restored,
partially; at least, to your confidence."
"''o have confidence in a man who has for-
feited his word,and forgotten'his duties,,as you
have done, will prove exceedingly difficult, I sus-
pect, to one who, like me, is strong in:his pre-
judices. Where are those who wentwith you ?"
"Some of them'have joined another band o
trappers, and the remainder-are on their way t4
Fort Laramie."
"And the gold-seeking expedition-"'
" Is abandoned."
Brion mused a moment.Y
" Mr. Headley,' he, added, " if I had any
means of testing your sincerity, youi apologies'
should 'be acceited."
" Try me," said Headley, "and if youfind one
in your band mor quick te obey your orders,
then you shall' b at. liberty to doubt my sin,
cerity. My original agreement, I am aware, is
forfeited, and I do not ask to be fully reinstated,
but merely to, be tolerated among you; more I
cannot reasonably expect."
"My nature, sir, is a frank, unsuspecting one.
You'recollect the old adage, ' To err is human,'
etc. I am disposed to overlook your fault, and
restore you once more to yon- place, and I trust
my confidence will-not be abused.",
The parties were ataiding near Mignon's tent,
and at that juncture;that young lady appeared:
iteadley, .who "saw Mignon advancing, exhib-
ited considerable-surprise, filing his eyes so h
tently upon he,.thatseheeouldnot -but'be aware
of biclose scrutiny.' Her beautyduseled the
unstable Missourian. Head expected -t6' se

a masculine young-woman, possessed ofno-more
charms than Don Quixete's Dulciaca;, there
fore the loveliness;of Mignon was a revelation
so unexpected,, that he could do .nothing but
stare at the fair apparition, as if quite bewildered.
He could now father Mariot's motives, so far
as this attractive divinity was concerned. He
desired to secure her person, not so much for
humanity's sake, as for his own ; for it seemed
to Headley .impossible that one who had once
seen Mignon should not love her.
as ye passed on, revealing to. Headley the
felicity of Brion, and the calm trust of Mignon.
.He was maddened at the successes of one toward
whom he had never felt any friendship, and one,'
too, that his conscience assured-him was much
his superior in moral attributes and sterling
qualities. He saw them walk together, and the
sight was hateful tohim; he 'heard them speak-
ing- in low and confidential tones, and the sounds
were torture to his ears.
The partisan, absorbed in the presence of Mig-
non, grew daily se observant of Headley, till-his'
movements were entirely unwatched by him. It
was then that the Missourian began to take walks
by himself, which daily grew longer and extended
farther from thecamp, As he returned regular-
ly, and deported himself well, no suspicion was
excited so far as Brion was concerned.
Ong circumstance annoyed the Missourian;,
he was. satisfied that Buckeye had followed him
on, more than one occasion, which was a species
of espionage threatening to prove fatal to his
plas. After many: attempts he ,uceeeded in
eluding, he believed, the vigilance of the trapper..
The hour was: between sunset and dark. By a
circuitous route he reached the art of timber,
near which the steel arrow had been so singuierly
projected by an: unseen bowman,.and into the
tree upon which'the, figure, of ,a man had been
Carved with the point of a knife., 4 person ad-i
vanced-from the timhenand met him, it was,the
hal&amp;breed. .,Together they passed into the:ob-
scrity of the wood, and conferredearnestly for'
along ti*ewhenHedlley hurried back to the,
canon. At eleven o'clock, when the partisan
walked throughthe encampment,, according to
,hisiabit, everything was as usual1;and Ve:went
to sleep with the onsiousness that all was safe.
hen he visitedMignon's tent in the moving,
she was not there. While wondering at thecir-.
cutance, Buckeye came t9 inform himthat,
several of the horseIbad been stolen during the
nighi Mignen's, among others.

"Where is Headley?" asked Brien.
"He's nott6 be found," said Buckeye. "By
thebheardsof mth ,!"
t  Brien lost no time in useless repinings over
what had happened. That he was perplexed and
anxious will be believed, and needs no affirma-
tion. With characteristic promptness he com-
r minced asearch for Mignon The ground around
the tent was thoroughly examined, but it:was not
of a nature to leave a trail; there was a rocky
ridge extending a mile or two from the anon,
upon which the foot of ranor horse could make
no impression. Thougir sharp-sighted and en-
perienced, the partisan was unable to determine
the,ceurse of the missing maiden. YUnder these
circumstances, he mounted his horse to make a
monre general investigation., Buckeye, like a
faithful friend, attended the !captain, as much in-
terested in the search, apparently as he.
"Ialways Mistrustedthe cretr'," quoth the
trapper, alluding to Headley, "and you remem-
ber, perhaps, that I advised yourto have nothing
to, do. with him, notwithstanding' his penitence
like."
"Ypour suspicions were at;inst shared by me ;
but his correct deportmnent afterward restored
my confidence," returned the mtbuntaineer.
"I'm not blamin' ye for hein' .charitable, as
'twere, because charity is what we aulneed more
or less. I ought to recollect, too that yournmind
was much taken up with _that uncommon
woman."
The partisan's manly:face was suffused for a
moment, and he answered,:
"It is possible that , have been selfish in my
happiness ; and upon reflection1I aminclined to
think it is so."
"No apologies, .cap'n;inslch a case it Isn't
in human natur to be otherwise. She's the put-
tiest woman alive, and interestin' to natch. As
old as I am--andl'm a littlee up'ardasof forty'-.
I'm almost fool enough tolove-her myself."
" What pleasure it giyeo sne todiea you speak
so kindly of her !" said Brion,warmly.
," Who could speak otherwise' ,,here'eno-
body with a heart thatknows her that can say
anythin' that isn't to her praise. You'hl'be a
happy man with her; if nod 'twill be your own
fault."
" You forget, that -she may be lost to -me for
ever ?"
"{That'sa supposable case, but I can't make
up my mind to it, yet. She'll turn up some-
where, dead or alive, when' you aint expeetin'

7$

1
i  .

tt   4
it    j"
t     Y
i     
f              i.
f
t{{''
tf
}}w
t
i
f
q       t
4
1
r

i
r
'r
r
i{
e
i
7;;


REDPATH.                       75

74

her. I shall 'travel a great many miles lifore I
ive heriup, ior despair in one day or two, or im
a week or a month. Flash °'cateariffifte likea
19lid, and 'wont mit'd a"thousand miles if'tiavel
seaoelyat all, 'specially whenihbEknows h6'he's
6t6e; in fact, the qiadrupipi neds execelse
rather, to lubricate his 3'intl, like"
' ckeye-!" 'eicla ddtthe'partisan, "your
iendship giv~ei necourage, and'makes -me think
better'of my fellow-inei."i
*4BeA  of"iSmithi I'S 'like your charitable
natfir'to isay that.4 rBt' that's not to the pint,
st     tly *&amp;nde@*herie Callard and his band
mafjbe abo~ut'tditime '
" On the march, and fhr ahead of us, doubt-
less. Ahl'  if it was not for this uinforhdnate
affair, we mighihope to overtakethem. ' Clar-
Iy,'they Will readbthetrapping-grounds first.'
",It can't be helped; you've labored under
peculiar didikilties, and isn'tt in the "power of
man. to )introl carcurastances so they'll work
jest toone'p niaihd, The best of us are short-
sighted inbrtals, atid-an't'see much beyond our
noses. Providence deals with us percisely as it's
a mindto,'kno in" the end from the beginnin'.
Worrying never did, nobody no good, and never
will as long ad the airth "carsumnavergates the
air. 'We must'submit to what comes with be-
eonn'brmissione knowin''it's from above, or
soinwherea in that d'rection."
' had'fi endeavdred to do my best, for my
employers:"
4i n(ake oath to ittin court of justice, with
my hand on the Bible I- It's'true that you stop-
ped a fefdays,'but hudnanity' required that you
hold~ itedpath,liinilif, couldn't be so tnuch
of a savage as to go on and leaveian honest fel-
16w-tmaneife'siknesnd'istres'he niatter what
his'omnpleiton might happen to be. =No,'no'!
such bitbuatity cud6 t * be'found. The wound-
edanad siekintast be taken care of, fur or no tar;
whethePcoipanie giffrI d onot. Them's ay
notlin;nd ''m forty'and up'ards."
" My ega td6 .,.   '."?
*It's equally your dui  to look after this
Mignon ldt what will come of 'it."'
"'iiiat' my fied determination", but tell me,'
iyfiehd, *here shall' we look?"
"In  sev'ral directionss ; Headley must be
forind if it taies a:bnth; and perhaps you'll
have to push on' after Callard-there's nokaow-
ir'. 'And as fer -'ierre "Mariot, ,he "deserves
lynchin' 1'
" He's a villain!"4

"As wicked a scamp as evet Walked the prai-
ries; Headleyekcepted/'
I havehad a thought which perhaps I ought
not to speak, but which, nevertheless, has given
toe some uneasiness."
"Speak it,' cap'n, 'less it's something* coin-
promisin'the integrity of that onconiionfeiale;
in which case you'd better be 'silent."
I recollect that 'Headley tried to make him-
selfvei'y agreeable to Miss Bellmar."
"Beard of Smith ! I'in'shamed of you, cap'n.
'Ieansee what you're' drivin' at, and advise you
to 'drop the subject  where 'tis. -I've never seen
the gal that knew her own mind better, though
I'm forty and up'ads!'
C I thank you, Buckeye; I certainly do wrong
to doubt her."
"Depend on't, wherever she's gone, it's again
her will. She isn't one of the flighty kind, taken
with every decentish face, and deceived by every
artful tongue."
f That is but justice to her good sense. I
Shall ask her 'pardon for entertaining a thought
even, not to her credit."
: "I'll see that you don't forget it, cap'n. She's
equal to any of the saints in the calendar, and
you desert'S to do penance, as 'twere."
"We must search for the villain, Headley;
and I shall give myself no rest until I have found
his lurking-place ; I will, cross prairies, I will
climb mountains, I will cross valleys and rivers,
and dare every peril of a savage country in this
'pursuit. My friend, I have an extraordinary in-
centive to exertion; you :see that Mignon
charms all; her beauty touches the heart of the
redman' even; while-her goodness, kindness
and gentleness win the friendship of 'the rough
mountaineer., Yesterday'I was happy, for Mig-
non' was near ne, but to-day I- am miserable,
for I no longer see her face,' ntr hear her-voice."
They rode on in silencejexamining closely all
the route for miles. Justat sunset Brond struck
a fresh 'trail leading -to the water, and both he
tand Buckeye'swam theinhorses tothe othe-side.
It was now too dark tofollowthe trail with cer-
tainty,'and'they encamped for test and refresh-
ment. But the' partisan could not, trnnquillize
his' nind to repose, and inding'the fort to sleep
isomne, he s6ftly arpse, the moment-he judged
Buckeye'to be asleep,'and passed out of the tent
acid started anewin' searchof the traill: He went
onurtil he cares to a hill which he climbed and
passed over to'the other side. At its base' was
an impassable chapparal, and he turned aside to

the'south. He soon came to a def surrounded
by-red cedatand pines, where he found the re.
mains of a fire still smoking:
While Brion stood reflecting whether to con-
tinue his solitary reconnoisance or return to
Buckeye, he was startled by a low and trium-
phant laugh near him. Raising his eyes and
partially turning round, Brion beheld a specta-
cle which sent the blood thrilling through his
veins with unwonted rapidity; he was surround-
ed by stalwort warriors whose dusky features
looked grim and terrible in the darkness. In
advance of the rest, and scarcely three yards
from the jnountaineer, stood one whose dress'
and bearing indicated him to be a chief,
"And so the cunning Fox has come to the
hunter ?" said he, repeating the laugh that had
so electrified the partisan. " Has the Fox be-
come a fool that he thrusts his Paw into the
trap I"
" The most Bunning are not.alwaysupon their
guard, and an old squaw may sometimes surprise
the panther sleeping on a tree," said Brion.
"I trapped you once before, but the heart of,
Ravenclaw was soft. The eyes of Lilyface turn-
ed his blood to water. Wily trapper, you will,
not live to see the next new moon. Last year,
Prairiewolf scented you upon Snake River, when
you were catching the beaver, but hecould not
catch yon; now he has got his hand on you, and
you cannot escape. What have you to say ?"
"That I will give you much for liberty," re-
sponded Brion.
" Do you give liberty to the otter when you
have taken it'? Do you spare the buffalo when
you are.hungering for his flesh I Do you say
to the panther, go in peace, when you have
levelled your rifle at her heart ? Fox, you have
lost your cunning 1".
"I have gunS and ammunition, hatchets and
hunting-knives, beads, bells and mirrors, and
strong horses," replied the trapper.
"It-is not so; you have nothing ; not even
life. Listen, we have a vow to- kill the first
living thing that cae e among us. White man,
'such vows are never broken."
"I, have heard of such a custom prevailing
among your people ; but it is a cruel and use-
less one. If I:must be sacrificed, it will make
but little difference whether I die to-night - or
three days hence ; therefore giveme three days
liberty, and at the expiration of that time I
will return,- when you can fulfil your vow.",
" Wa-wa ! I was right when I said the: ox

was growing 'foolish; he is getting into his
dotage.".               -
"I swear by the Great Spirit; that I will re-
turn and surrender myself a prisoner, to 'suffer
the death you hive determined upon!" added
Brion, with emphasis.
" Paleface, that cannot beF! Even if you
came back, Ravenclaw might again give you
life ; but LX will not trust you; your heart)is not
big enough to keep your word. If you come,
it would 'be with your. hunters at your heels,
with their rifles cocked andat their faces. Prai-
riewolf is not a child that he should be deceived
by words which are as smoke curling' from the
top of a wigwam, to pass away into the air and
be remembered no more."
The partisan felt a cold; sickly sensation creep-
ing over him, his blood seemed to flow back upon
his heart with horror ; he experienced dn-instinc-
tive shrinkingthat reached to his Wry marrow.
Prairiewolf eyed him, a mocking smile on hislips.
" Prairiewolf, when the Master of Life calls
for us, we must-go ; but the whiteimaa has dif-
ferent notions from the savage. His flesh is
more sensitive to the fire than the red man's, be-
cause he has never been taught to despiseits tor-
tures. If nothing but my death will suffice,
strike your knife into my breast and let nme-pass
at once to the hunting-grounds."
"A squaw might die in that way ; a great chief
like you deserves a inore honorable death."
A brave approached, to bind Brion's hands.
Resolved to secure a sudden death or escape,
with his hatchet he struck the savage -down at
Prairiewolf's feet, and bounded from  the dell
with the speed of a deer ' But there were those
after him swift of foot andftireless- in pursuit;
and having scarcely three jards the start of his
pursuers, themountaiseer could hardly hope for
success. He was overtaken, carried back, and
bound in a'mnsnuer to preclude the possibility of
a second attempts
"You are not quick,; enough:!"- said Prairie-
wolf, tauntingly. '"A boy could run faster."
"But, a boy could not do, that I" retorted
Brion, pointing to the body of the bravewhom
he had stricken.
" We shall see," resumed Prairiewolf, fiercely,
"how you will bear up under the ordealof the
twelve fires !"
" The will of God -be done!i"' replied Brion,
commending himselfto that Being who is apt to
be forgotten in prosperity, and remembered only,
in adversity.-

it


76

CHAPTER XII.
", '',     'S a  5OAP$.
tIshe moo up,c'n ?" said-Buckeye, rub.
bi n  ie s:eye: There not, beiht any response,
he added, presently, " I 'spect it's alfout time to
be tsrin.
The'sllenderemaining unbroken,Buckeye arose
and tht ned to.the spot where-he attppdsed Brion
tembe slumberIn':
"Beard of. the ptophet:Snmithil He isn'there !
Well, he -"an't be far off, that's sartin. Per-
ls"ps hds° gohe after-the horses. No he hasn't,
neither there theystand in plain sight." ,
"By the bok of Mormon.!" -exclaimed Buck.
eye, suddenly. "Soiebody's a'ter the cap'n's
hoss "" His observant eyes had detected-a man
croucked in the grassin the act of cutting the
sideline from the trapper's steed.
"Look this Way!" shoutedBuckeye..
Thethief obeyed,: not certain that the words
were ,Adressed to himi but all doubts were dis-
pelled whenhe saw the -trapper's long rifle cov-
ering his head.
"Iff youth life's worth anythtn' in particular to
ye, getup and conie this way, and try to remem-
berthat If yo:runh, 11l drop you as I would a
'tarnal' eatamount-I"-
The detected' ofbnder reluctantly advanced,
revealing nolepsa personage than the half-breed.
" O, it's yoh;,is it' ?. Well, this is nice kind of
business-ibr a, crettir with white blood in his
veins. I s'pec% there's no  other branch of in-
dustry thattyou cads git into," said Buckeye, as
Beavertaker approached.
"iWith the jieopt with whom I live, horse-
stealingis not -esteeined a crime, but- rather a
virtue," retuted Seavertaker -
"Well, Jestia' down on your knees and say
over n little sunthin, and I'll give ye a bit of a
lifttoiward thehallWbreed kentry. I s'pect you
haven't got Ingin blood enough in ye to care any
great-Wiott a' death-song, And as for your cx-
plifai It wont take long to tell 'em."
At that'finstant something fell 'softly at Bea-
vertaker's feet; who, :thereupon, evinced much
agitation.
" Beavers and otters I- it's an arrow I" -ex-.
eclaimed Bdckye.  3ut the half-breed was too
much terrified to speak.
"Yon look' 'iiian' h*ite about the tuouth,
and I reckon there's a heap of meaning' in this
little tuessenger. Come, half-breed, find your
tongue."

tab#ni

ImiDATH

"Yes; there is indeed meaning in if,"answer-
ed Beaertakerystrihing to master his far. "It
tells me that my life hangton a thread.'=it warns
" fie to begone, and upper no morlin the coun-
try of the Blackfeet onpain of death.",
"'Tis the work of Redpath !" said the trap-
per, in a subduedvoice. "The unknown eretur
is near; his noiseless feet are walkin' around us;
his eagle' eyes are seeid' us, and hiaquiver is full
of these polished instruments of death.",
"There is too much truth in what you say.
I shall tarry no longer amid these hills; ;Imust
direct my footsteps to some distant spot where
the name of Redputh is unknown."
"If that's the case, then free your conscience
at once, and you'll go lighter for avin' east off
a great burden of deviltry," advis - Buckeye.
"There is one thing I regret," added the half-
breed, with some show of remorse.
" That's right; I'm glad to hear ye say so; it
makes half-breed human natur appear to better
advantage. Tell me what it is that-you're sorry
fort"
" I will; it is that I sold myself to Pierre
Mai-lot."
"And well you may, for he is a villain. 'As
it can't now make any difference to you, either
in regard to your pay or futur prospects, inform
me what Mariot has been tryin' to do ?"'
"At first his object was to destroy the trap.
pers of the American Fur Company."
"That I 'have - found out already," said the
trapper.
" When Mignon appeared," resumed Beaver-
taker, " and went over to Brion's party, it then
became hi great object to obtain possession of
her person, and by a series of-persecutions, over-
come her objections to his wishes."
"And what might his wishes:be t"
"To make her Madame Mariot, of course.".
"(I have yet another question to ask."
"Ask it."
" Can you tell me where Mademoiselle Bell-
mar is now l"
"She is, travelling-toward the flails as fast
as fleet horses can carry her. She is with Ma-
riot, andwHeadley was his instirennt. But the
end is not yet; Headley loves her, and there
-will be a struggle between the two." -
"Beard of Smith i Jestwhatithought!' Put
two scoundrels'together to serve the devil, and
directly they'll go to cuttin' each other's throats.
What trail- is that the cap'n and I have been
following' ?"

"That of a small party'of Blackfeet who have
sworn never to 'return to theirvillage without a
prisoner"
"Ah, that gives me an idea-, Depend on't,
the cap'n's in trouble. It's probable that the
thought of Mignon kept him awake, ahd he got
up and.,followed this trail, and has been taken
by this war party. By Joe's Smith's beard!- I
must be after him."
"Madman, stop!' you will but go to share his'
fate !"-
" Share his fate? I'm willin' to-I'm *illin'
to, if I can't save him. What is fire to a true'
soul ? It's nothin'! All the fire in the world
can't burn up the mortal principle of an hon-
est man !" -said Buckeye, with fervor
"Follow your destiny, and I will mine. Time
is passing, and to meit is the same as life. But
I turn my back upon these familiar scenes with
sorrow ; I love the prairies and the wide skies
over them; the mountains have become dear to
me, and I love to hunt the buffalo upon the great
hunting-grounds of the red man. I go, and we
shall 'never meet again. Honest trapper, fare-
well !" Beavertaker said no more, but turning
away, was soon out of sight.
"The kentry's relieved," said the trapper ;
" it'll breathe easier, feel better, and stan' longer,
I dare say. It can't be' said'that Redpath hasn't
done some good, previdin' he's had a hand in
the matter ; for one, I'm obleged to him, be he
man or demon. But I musn't forgit for an in-
stant that-the cap'n's in danger. I'll hop on to.
Flash and it shall go hard with me if I don't
find him. Flash can scent an Ingin as- far as a
dog can his master."
Buckeye hastily saddled his horse, and leav-
ing Brion's animal to shift for himself, was soon
in motion.  With his nose near the ground
Flash followed the trail of the mountaineer.
When Flash had gone on in this manner for
a half or three quarters of an hour, he stopped,
snuffed the air, and shook his head.
" He smells the greturs " said Buckeye,;,
"they're near-I never =new him to fail." 'He
dismounted and stood a moment beside his
horse.
"Flash," said he; gently, stroking the crea-
ture's neck with his hand, " we've been friends a
great;while, and it wouldn't be like ye to desert
me now. 'Stay here and be as still as death.
If I don't see ye agin;,but go under, the same as'
a good many better men have, don't never let
an Ingin riptile swing his leg across your back."

Stooping.until his figure presented but half its
usual attitude, the .trapper glided onward.end
soon reached the dell, where active preparations
were being made for the death of the prsonea.
The savages had already fixed twelve green
stakes in the ground and werp gathering heaps
of fagot4.. To Buckeyethis was a .urnful
spectacle;. he gazed from his place of conceg-
ment with mingled feelings of horror and indig-
nation. He felt himself in a' dreadful dgemma;
he could witness the agonies of his friend with
but little chance of aiding him, or he could fly
for assistance back to the canon with the terrible
fear following him at every step: that he might
be too late to save his life, Thus he remained.
Knowing that it would be rash to undertake any-
thing in favor ofBrion against such numbers, he
concluded to go for assistance, hoping, by diat
of hard riding, to, return .in season to save the
captain's life. Creeping back, he mounted Flash
and rode away as fast as his fleet limbs could
carry him.
, Meantime, the partisan was lying upon the
ground in the- most painful position. He saw
the green stakes driven, fagots brought, dry pine
splinters prepared, and various other arrange-
ments' calculated to shake the sternest resolution.
He had abandoned himself to his fate with a kind
of despairing apathy, when -sudden recollection
like a gleam of .light flashed through his mind.
" Prairiewolf," said he, "it is not the will of
the Great Spirit that I should die now."
"White men talk often of the Great Spirit,
replied the chief, ironically. , "Why do you
think he has not called you, and that you shall
live longer upon the earth 2"
" Unbutton my hunting frock, and you will
find that beneath it which will answer your
question."
Bending over Brion, he tore open his frock,
and there was revealed to his wondering ight
the figure of a raven wrought in beads. . Prairie-
wolf stood silent and confounded; rage and die-
appointment were pictured upon his visage.
"Accursed Fox !" .he exclaimed. "Some of
your.cunning ydt remains. This is indeed a
mighty medicine. I will show.itto my warriors,
and hear what they say."
Prairiewolf took the talisman, and going away
a little distance, called his 'braves ,around him,
when considerable talking followed in low toned.
Presently the chief returned, and giving the
mountaineer the memento that-seemed to possess
such power, said:

:                     t
f,
z
f
aC
u
P1
.i
N#,
: i  u

4

2-4


RED1ATB.

79

"You were right,;paleface ; your time has not
come ; youn'ay yet live many moons to trap the
otter and the beaver. , See ! I cut tour bands;
rise up ; you are free !"
The mountaineer sprang lightly to his feet,
and the fear of a painfuldeath rolled back from
his soul, Ie stretched out his arms-heshook
himself like-an impatient steed-a sense of free-
dom made him happy.
"'Tis the providence of God 3" he exclaimed.
"Yes," said Prairiewolf, "it is a great thing
that has happened. There is your ways-go !
But'remember that you shall yet feel the claws
ofPrairiewolf!3"-, .
"To thank you for -my life, would be giving
you too much credit for humanity; I shall there-
fore reserve my gratitude for one more powerful
than thou. Adieu, unfriendly red man 1"
A brave advanced and handed Brion his rife ;
throwing the weapon upon his shoulder, he
walked from the camp of his enemies with a firm
and dignified step.
Brion took the way he had come, and as he
increased the distance between himself and the
savages, quickened his pace.
"Wabuma !" said a voice  near the moun-
taineer, at the-moment when he was passing the
chapparal adverted to in another place. The
partisan cocked his rifle and looked for the
speaker, who immediately emerged from the
meaquit at his left.,
"1What is your purpose ?" questioned Brion,
presenting his rifle.
" To pay a debt I owe you!"
"I know you not," added the captain.
'I Yan-kee, Iam Blackbird, son of the Raven,"
rejoined the Indian. ,      ~.,
The partisan eased the hammer of his rifle-
lock softly back upon the unbroken cap, and
dropped the breach of the weapon to the ground.
"Ah ! I remember.".
" Wabuma I attend thou ! When yonder war-
party set out I was not ready, for I had certain
rites to perform  necessary to ensure success; I
overtook them this morning, after you had given
Prairiewolf the great medicine:"
" Go on," said Brion. I
" Prairiewolf cut your bonds, and said, 'Arise;
you are atliberty, arise and depart.' "I
"Yes," added Brion, wondering       at what
Blackbird was coning.
"But," resumed the Indian, "he spoke do-
ceitfully, and there was wickedness in his heart.
Yan-kee, he has planned your death.  When

you pass yonder spring, two braves will spring
upon you and ,dispatch you with their toma-
hawks. Prairiewolf has sent themhere for that
purpose; they are crouching in the grass, wait-
ing the sound of your coming."
"Blackbird, behold how the- Great Spirit re-
wards me for a mnerciful act !"
"Wa-wa ! the Master of Life is just; he'never
forgets, and his red children are like him."
"Do you not fear the consequences of betray-
ing this secret"?" Brion asked.
" I would have warned you of this- if the
twelve fires that. were to be lighted for you were
to be my only reward for the deed. I will repay
the debt I owe you though they thrust my flesh
full of blazing splinters, and burn out my tongue."
"My brother," said Brion, with increased earn-
estness, "I regret that my people do not better
understand your race. I would to God that
mutual hatred might no longer exist ; thatjeal-
ousy and bloodshed might cease forever."
"Yan-kee, I have given life for life ; go your
way, and remember that Blackbird did not prove
ungrateful."
The Indian vanished like a spirit-so quickly
did he glide into the tangled depths of the chap-
paral-and the partisan changing his course,
made a detour to the right, thus avoiding the
ambush of the wily Prairiewolf. He reached
the spot where he had left Buckeye, found his
horse quietly feeding, but of course saw nothing
of the trapper or Flash.
It was now daylight. Thinking it probable
that Buckeye was looking for him, Brion con-
cluded to remain in that vicinity awhile, believing
he should be more likely to find him, in that
way than by searching for him. He did not by
any means intend to slumber, but having slept
none during the night, nature proved stronger
than his resolution, and he fell into an unquiet
sleep, in which he dreamed of the-Blackfeet and
Mignon. He was aroused from his somnolency
by sounds that would not have been noticed by
one who had not passed many years in country
where constant watcb lness was required, but
which proved to be produced by human feet ; for
the first object that met the mountaineer's gaze
was a man who was looking wistfully at his
horse. e
"Stranger," said Brion, "what, brings you
here '""
The individual, who obviously had not seen
the partisan, now turned toward him with a start
indicative of surprise.

t

"Ah;" added Brion, immediately, "I think we
have met before'"
"Yes, and not much to my advantage," re-
plied the man, pointing to' a wound upon his
head.
"You received that little memento of my good
will at the timber near the canon," continued
the partisan.
"I'm pretty well aware of it !" said Kincaid.
" This meeting, I perceive, di- opportune ; I
have some questions to propose to you which I
hope you will answer without prevarication.
My first' question is, can you inform me
where Pierre Mariot is ?"
"I shall not answer," said Kincaid.
" My next," resumed Brion, " is this : Is Miss'
Bellmar with him?"     *
"I reply to that as to the other question."
" Villain !" exclaimed Brion.
"If that suits you, why let it be so," replied
the Frenchman, with a sneer.
" You were doubtless about to appropriate my
horse ?"
" I supposed it to be an estray."
"No apologies ; horse-stealing, I presume,
could psily be reconciled to- your conscience ;
you are not tender, I think. But as the civil
questions I have asked remain unanswered, I
will propose another: Tell me if you have any
knowledge of the movements of Headley ?"
" I have.".
" That is well; where is he ?"
.      " That is something I did not agree to tell,
you.
"A truce to this obstinacy ! I am intensely
interested in Miss Bellmar, and the movements
of Headley. and Mariot ; tell me where to find
them, and I will make it worth your trouble."
0, you will buy me?"
"If it does not go beyond my means, yes.
Name your price ?"
"You spoke of buying my knowledge ; what
will you gife ?"
"What do you demand ?"
" 'there is your horse ; it is a fine one; I will
accept him as a gift, and in return for your
kindness, tell you all I know of Mademoiselle
Bellmar and Mariot," said Kincaid, with a cool.
effrontery provoking to Brion,- who was loth to'
part with an animal he valued highly.
"It is ahard bargain you are driving with me,
but I will compromise the matter by giving you
the price of the animal in money or such goods
as I have at the encampment," he answered.

BEDPATH.

"No,'hat will. not de; I'll have the horse, or
it's no trade, and not a word passes my lips;
so choose, apd that quickly, for I want to be
off,": he said.
"You are indeed a pitiful knave, and itstaxes
my patience sorely to keep from laying violent
hands upon you; nevertheless; if these are your
easiest terms, I accept."
" Saddle him and bring him here, and place
the bridle rein in'my hand, that I may be sure
there is no trickery about it."
With a sigh of regret and something like re-
morse, the partisan complied .with.this request.
Kincaid took the bridle and threw it over the
animal's neck. The horse, resenting this famil-
iarity from a stranger, or frightened at the sud-
denness of the act, reared and backed, Kincaid
retiring with him, until he was several yards
from the mountaineer, then springing with agility
to-the saddle, gave him the rein, and struck his
flanks with his heels. In a second he was gal-
loping away.
Brion drew up his. rifle with the intention of
wounding the rascal, but it missed fire. Kincaid
had taken off the cap while he was saddling the
horse.
"Put on a cap 3" shouted the Frenchman,
looking back over his shoulder. At that instant
the partisan saw a gleamof light passing through
the air; Kincaid cried out like ore in mortal
pain, and fell headlong from the horse. Brion
hastened to him ; he found him upon the ground
in the agonies of death:. a steel-headed arrow
had passed through his lungs, and the glitter-
ing point was visible near the spinal column be-
neath the left shoulder.. He fixed his glassy
eyes upon the mountaineer.
" It is ended I" said he, in a husky voice.
" I'm dying. My fears were prophetic-Red-
path has stricken me. I wished for your horse
to leave this accursed region-but it is useless to
struggle with fate.  But I will confess this.
Miss Bellmar is with Mariot and Headley;
you will find them somewhere, on the trail to the
city of the Great Salt Lake. Raise me up a lit-
tle." Brion did so, supporting him with his
willing arms.
"When the breath has -left me, honest Brion,
tie a heavy stone to my body and sink it in the
waters of the Nebrasta."
"Yes," said Brion, "I will do it."
"That is all; it grows darker-thy portals
are grim and horrible-but-but death-is eter-
nal--eternal sleep !" Kincaid never spoke again.

.   ,
''. '
:.y
a
R
3
[42
1              r
{
7
'
r
e
'l
$
i
88a
i      ,
-Si
t l  . 7
]    {
/                    !      J
k
f
t    i
!
1
"               }
i     '
.,    Z

ti

it1
't

4.'N

"v-


80                  RpAH.

C0"I.TER XIY.
A NEW-COMER INTO TEE t'IELD.
! " Ir death is an eternal slumber,"rmused Brion,
" then he who has lived the best in the world
will sleep' the mosttranquilly. This. clod; was.
but recently a man, now it is insensateouatter
ready to return to the great .body of nature
whencd it was derived."
"Beard of the; irinortil Joe !". cried a well-
known .voice, and thereupon the partisan felt
himself hugged as if insthgembraces.of abear.
"Beavers and otters ! guns and gunpowder 1"
The reader will Perceive that Buckeye had
returned.
"'Well:ecap'n, this is what I, call sing'lar!I
Why, I didn't much expect to see you ag'in in
the 'rthly tabnercle of your nat'ral body.!"
"Ispirit has notlesh and bones-as ye see me
have," said Brion, sharing fully in Buckeye's
gladness.
"In-course not, for in that case one.couldn't
never spect to reach the now Jeroosalem unless
he went up in a billoon ; for the force of gravity,
you know, would keep himrooted to the nateral
sile. How in the name of Smith did you get
clear of the Ingin creturs I"
. "First let me ask, my friend, how you learn-
ed that I was a prisoner ?"
"Why, Igiskivered ye, in course, and saw the
riptiles drivin' green stakes into the ground to
the number of twelve and up'ards."
"You took the trail. 2"
" Flash and I, yes.: I must say I found ye in
a bad predicament. Twelve fires ! three days !
great: Smith !"
"I perceive you are acquainted withthe whole
affair. "
" That mixed individoval the Ingins callDea-
vertaker has been here }and he told me about the
war-party and their;vow; and you bein' gone,,
I put that and that together, and.made up my-
mind what had happened. which was confirmed
by goin' arter ye. But by the beard I what have
you: here I"
"You can examine and satisfy yourself."
"The body of a man with an arrow driven,
through his-lungs,~the pint stickin' from the
back."
" True," said Brion. .
" Beavers and otters let us hear about it."
The 'artisan stated the circumstances of the
case.
"'Tis the work of Redpath 1" added Buckeye,

in an undertone. " He is yeteat his old trade;
he's near us by night and by day ; he's, never
asleep; li.-afoot never tires; and his quiver is
never empty."    0
"A wily foe," returned Brion.
"And not only wily but terrible" resumed the
trapper.
" Terrible to those whom he marks for de-
struction; to others-he may be quite different."
" It woukin'gg be strange if we should fuller
*rter them that has felt his power and gone un-
der the sile. Weought to think of the futur,
and be ready to go at a second's warnin'. In ease
I should be the fast to ;give up airthly things,
I want you nto.take Flash and be a good master
to him-the faithful brute."
"It's my opinioneyou are destined for a long
life and a happy one; nevertheless should I out-
live you, Flash shall never want care and atten-
tion; he shall receive no, stinted rations of pro-
vender, his work shall be light, and he shall die
of old age."..-                      '
" That sounds right and proper, and arranges
all my airthlyrnatters with the exception of my
rifle and sich like, which you must keep in re-
membrance of Buckeye--the free trapp  "
"A brave soldier frequently make 's will
while going to battle ; but let us hope that I
shall not execute yours until I am myself a very
old man. Now tell ine where you have been---
to get help,,I dare say ?" 
"Yes, I started for the canon, but met one of
your old trappers well-mounted, and, sent him
with the news of your capture. Before noon,
twenty-five brave fellers will behere-chaps that
wont shrink from a skriumage.",
"'We shall need them, possibly, for another
purpose."  .
" To pursue Mariot and Headley 2"
" That is my design," said Urion. "But I
must attend to the last wish of this poor fellow,
which was to give him a burial in the waters of
the Nebraska."
The body was lifted upon Brion's horse and
carried to the river, to the summit of a cliff over-
hanging the water. While they were preparing
it far its final resting-place a orsemenn was seen
upon the opposite. bank; who, perceiving the
mountaineers, called to them, desiring to know
if the river, was fordable. The captain informed
him that there was a sand-bar, reaching two-
thirds of the distance across; b4t notwithstand-
ing he would in some places fnd itbeyexd his
horse'ssdepth.,

The stranger attempted the passage, succeed-
ing verywell' until within twenty yards of the
shore, when--the horse not- being a very pow.
erful swimmer, and the water being deep and
swift--he was borne downward with the current
and his life endangered. The partisan perceiv-
ing his peril, did not hesitate to plunge in to his
rescue, which, happily, he effected. The man
was taken from'the water much exhausted. 'He
proved to be'a person past middle age, very re-
spect4 in appearance, and a Frenchman.
s     Dieu!" exclaimed he, reviving from
the effects .of his bath. " I am getting too old
to travel in such a barbarous country. Ma fois !
I should have been drowned but for your friend-'
ly aid."
" Then my' being, here was providential," re-
plied Brion.
".Evidently -so ; -thanks' be to the Divine.
Being !" said the stiaunger, fervently.
" We were performing a melancholy service
when you appeared, which we will now com-
plete. We were on the point of committing the
mortal remains of a fellow-being to the keeping
of this river."
"Ing1! a sad affair to perform in this great
solitude ; one of your companions, doubtless 1"
" Guns and gunpowder, no !" exclaimed
. Buckeye. " We don't associate with sich."
"Please come this way, sir," requested Brion.
"Diable ! he was shot with an arrow !" cried
the Frenchman.
, "And it was a fate he richly desarved, though
we shouldn't judge too harshly of our feller-
creters," said Buckeye.
" He was a bad man, then?"
"He hadn't no principles, whatsoever ; he
was in the employment of Pierre Mariot, part-
ner in the firm of Bellmar &amp; Mariot of West-
port," rejoined the trapper.
The Frenchman seemed astounded, looking
from Brion to Buckeye and from -Buckeye to
Brion as if 'he could not well credit what had
been affirmed.
" It appears to work you up .somewhat, stran-
Iuger; but sich a spettacle as this may nat'rally
do so. Perhaps you've heard of Redpath and
perhaps you haven't; but whether you have or
haven't-and it probably don't make no great
odds-jest look afore ye, and -you'll see a spec-
imint-of his work,"
"tThis is most wonderful !" said the stranger,
trembling with excitement. "I have heard-of
Redpath. I hope this is the only white man he
has killed-within your knowledge ?" '

"I wish it ffas, but it isn't; by no means ;
sev'ral have felt his arrows and knocked under-
as 'twerp."
The Frenchman now looked attentively .a the
partisan.
"If I mistake not;" he said, "this is Captain
Brion, the famous mountaineer ?"
"My "name is Brion," replied the captain,
modestly,-"but I believe I am not very famous."
" Thanks to the intercession of the saints !
this is well. Perhaps you can tell me something
concerning my daughter, Mignon ?" said the
Frenchman, hurriedly.
"Otters! aree you the old gentleman'!" ex-
claimed Buckeye. "Well, I may say the cap'a
has behavedrealhandsome toward the gal. He'
been the same as a father to her, and brother,
too, for that matter, with a little sister thrown in.
Bless you, sir, he's run allsorts of risk I twelve
fires-three days--roastin'-pine splinters, and
so on."
"For which he will accept a father's gratitude.
Lead me to her at once."
" I'm not much in the habit of advisin' peo-
ple older nor myself, but if I might be allowed
to speak in a case like this, I should say keep
down your nat'ral feelin's tell we find her. When
she's once diskivered, you can be led to her, I
reckon; but till then, I don't, think it can be
done. The truth is, that uncommon woman
slipped away from us when we wasn't expectin'
it ; if it hadn't been 'for that'carcumstalce, your
wouldn't have seen us here, for we're arter her."
Mr. Bellmar's countenance  indicated the
Alepths of his disappointment, while Brion pro.
ceeded to explain the matter as well as he could ;
in addition to which he mae a general state-
ment of all that had happened to Mignon, as far
as he knew.
"I trust," said Monsieur Bellmar, after a
pause, "that my daughter's deportment has been
at all times such as becomes one of her years
and sex ?"
" Guns and gunpowder ! if she'd been queen
of England, she couldn't conducted herself nd
better ! I say it without meanin' no hurt'to any-
body'of her'kind ; but I've never seen her 'dqual,
on the prairies or off, in towns or cities, and I'm
forty and up'ards."
Buckeye spoke with particular enthusiasm,
rounding the fikki-period with a vigorous cut of
his right hand throughlythe:air.
Belimarlooked gratefully at thestrapper, of
whose sincerityhe had not a doubt,'his earnest-
ness fully attesting to his honesty.

.
"r.
i
1;
a            '
1
i
a
.
A
A       !p (
C
,
t.
}
'       a
[
e
1

$j1

BWPATK                      Q1


;,ai.

0

82

BWPATH?

CHAPTER XV
COnCLUSION.
LEAVING these parties, we return once more to
Mignon. She had retired as usual, but a little
after midnight was awakenedrby a-sense of suf-
focation, and discovered that-a handkerchief-was
tied tightly across her mouth, and her hands
firmly held by a man, who instantly raised her
in his arms and bore her swiftly from-the tent.
'Be quiet, mademoiselle! no personal injury
ordisrespect is intended," said a voice which she
recognized as Headley's. Mignon struggled and
attempted to alarm the camp, but against Head-
ley her feeble strength availed nothing. She was
,on clear of the canon, when she was placed
upon a horse ; but the handkerchief was not-re-
moved untilshe had ridden as far as the timber,
where Headley was joined by Beavertaker who
had just reached the spot with several horses,'
her ovi among the number, which, as the reader
knows, he had stolen.
Mignon being free from the restraint of the
handkerchief wasof course at liberty to express
her-indignation at such an outrage ; a privilege
ofwhich she did not hesitateto avail herself.
" Mademoiselle Bellmar, I am acting under
the influence of a passion that masters me. Do
not hold me responsible for ay deeds'; indeed,
you have driven me mad !" said he.
"You screen: yourself :under a miserable sub-
terfuge ! You cannot disguise from me the fact
that' youare acting under the instructions of
Pierre Mariot," Mignon replied.,.
"In adoring you; I most certainly do not act-
ander his orders," returned the Missourian.
" Tell me yoiff purpose ?" said Mignon.
'My hope is that at some future time you will
come to regard me in a manner far more kindly,"
responded Headley, with an air of humility.
"If you would have such hope realized, con-
duct me whence you have -taken me," she re-
plied.
" That I cannot consent to do; though if you
fill, I will save you from  annoyance from
Market."
"That you may annoy me yourself- Yes, I
see; but the change will not be welcomed by
me. I demand my liberty, and you cannot, if a
man of honor, refuse my wish. Whenwoman
sues lanshould 'otbe-inflexible."  -
" I could witness yourdeathirith'more' calm-
ness than your, return to Captain Brion, Miss
Bellmar !" he exclaimed, with emphasis.;;

REflPATHS.

"Then entreaties are vain;"and it only re-
mains forme to submit to my fate; begging, how-
ever; to be treated-with the.deference due t¢ my
sex and honor," saidMignon,-deepai$ngly.
"You can do no more and no better, madem-
oiselle." If you,,prefer, you may ride your own-
horse, you- perceive he is here ,"   I
" Yes, I preferto ride Brave,..suffer me to do
so." It was some alleviation of her distress to
find herself upon her favorite steed again; and
she indulged also a secret hope that s  ight
escape by ;reason of his speed, by takin , an-
tage of some moment 'when Headley was less
watchful. She observed that blankets had been
cut in pieces and tied upon the horses' feet to
render the trail indistinct; also that the hardest
ground was chosen to favorthe same intent.
The party crossed the Nebraska before sunrise,
upon a raft that had been constructed for that
purpose, which was destroyed when they reached
the shore. Mignon's patience and firmness was
tiken put to a severe test, for Mariot joined them,
accompanied by Kincaid, but the latter imme-
diately left with Beavertaker, and did  not
return.
Mariot' affected a dignity and reseda  which
Mignon knew was foreign to his character, and
which was assumed to cover .his designs from
Headley, also to awe thetfair captive into silence
and respect.
They now travelled very fast, Pierre being
careful to keep at some distance from the young.
lady, wishing to' escape her keen questioning,'
and deserved rebuke. Mignon quickened the
pace of Brave and rode to his side. She desired.
to be informed by what authority he assumed
the control of her person, an4 where he intended
to conduct her. Mariot replied to the effect-that
she must content herself not-to know at present,
but that all, eventually, would result to herad-
vantage.
This was unsatisfactory; Miss Bellmar urged
her just interrogatories with becoming spirit.
The Frenchman finally grew angry, and .re-
proached her for rejecting ,him at Westport, ac-
cusing her also of unmaidenly conduct in plac-
ing, herself-under the protection of Captain
Brion, a rough and rude.trapper, -,ot fit for the
companionship of one gently reared, and possess-
ed of lady-like and reined instincts.
" Evil-minded, invidious man t" exclaimed
Mignon, vexed and wounded by his-base intima-
tions. "My aversion for your .character mo-
mentarily increases. ' Think not to shake my

1~

constancy of.purpose, or conquer my contempt
for you."
Headley, who 'was riding in the rear, hearing
the altercation, rode up and reproved Mario. for
his bad temper, though in language not offen-
sive. Pierre choked dgwn his resentment, and
no more conversation of that nature ensued.
As many of Headley's men as lIariot was able
to mount had been sent forward the day pre-
vidus; these they overtook before night; they
were    ait for the remainder at a certain place
kno     Beavertaker and Kincaid, who were to
meet them upon the stolen horses and conduct
them there by another route.
Mignon complained of fatigue and requested
Headley to encamp for the night ; an artifice
which she hoped would prove advantageous to
Brion, who, she doubted not, .would be able to
find the trail, notwithstanding all the precautions
taken. ' Mariot objected to this proposal, wish-
ing to hurry on as fast as possible till morning.
A difference of opinion thereupon arose, which
was decided by vote among the men, and against
the judgment of Mariot. This circumstance en-
gendered. ill-feeling between the leaders, which,
enhanc l by mutual jealousy, showed itself often
the following day. Mignon foresaw a quarrel,
which possibly might produce some change in
her favor, -yet inwardly fearing the crisis that
seemed approaching. The same scene in regard
to camping was enacted at the close of the
second day with the same results. Mignon slept
and was hopeful-more hopeful than at any
time since her abduction.
The morning sun arose with peerless bright-
ness. Nature was glorious in h beauty. The
wide- spreading prairies exhalil eWeand fragrance.
The little camp was astir. Mignon stood near
Brave, with her eyes turned wishfully toward
the Wind River Mountains from which she was
daily receding. Could she forget the scenes
that had transpired at the feet of those mighty
ranges ? Never!l they had impressed their
- thrilling events upon her soul, to remain there'as'
long'as life and memory lasted.
-Mariot. approached.. Mignon remarked that
his face wore a gloomy expression. Headley
followed him; both stopped a" few'paces from
her.
'Ihope,' she said, addressing Mariot, "that
you have come to tell me that you regret what
you hate done ?"
"No," he moodily replied, "I only regret
your perverseness."   .

88

"How will you account - for your conduct to
my father ?" resumed Mignon.
"That need not give you uneasiness," return-
ed Mariot.
"Did the thought ever occur to you, Monsieur
Mariot, that Redpath may be near us ?" inquir-
ed Mignon, after a pause.,*-
"Diable!" exclaimed Mariot, with a ,slight
shudder. "I wish you would never speak that
name in my hearing.
"Is the dread of that- man then so strong
upon you ?" she continued.
"You have chosen an inauspicious subject
mademoiselle !" impatiently rejoined Mariot.
" Possibly so; but perhaps you believe in
omens, premonitions, and such things ?". resum-
ed Miss Bellinar, perceiving the theme annoyed
him.
" It matters iot;.it can make no great differ-
ence in our present relations. That I feel dark
within, and an unwonted gloom weighs heavily
upon me, I confess. I will acknowledge even
more than this-there is a vague yet terrible
fear of death upori me."
Mariot stood with his face to Mignon, his arms
folded on his breast. His eyes were turned to
her while he spoke with an expression that seem-
ed to 'ask sympathy. At this moment his lips
ceased moving, he groaned and fell at Mignon's
feet, who, thinking he had fainted, looked at him
with contempt; but that feeling. changed to ab-
solute awe when she discovered ' the shaft of an
arrow, the point of which was lodged inhis
brain. While she gazed at this spectacle,. so
unexpected and so fearful, a man rushed from a
,growth of pinon just behind her, and embracing
her, exclaimed :
" My daughter ! my daughter 1"
'(My dear father!" cried Mignon, recovering
somewhat from her bewilderment and returning
his caresses.  - -.
"Beavers and otters 1"
Mignon raised her eyes and saw Brion and-
Buckeye approaching, and held out both hands
to them.
"Welcome'! most welcome !" she exclaimed,
with' a radiantsmile.
"Guns' and gunpowder! the cap'n's been
most distracted, and gone through all sorts . of
dangers-twelve fires-three days--roastingr-
pine splinters !" added Buckeye, venturing to
touch Mignon's little hand.
" For' which he has my eternal gratitude,"
said Monsieur Bellmar.

4-4-

a
!
t
jS; z.
i y
1,
i   9
.
5
+  _+
E

}'
s
a
1
'                     iI  J
(9
. !
r
{   %
'         t   c
.
I=
'!
''t
3i   i
ty
t
.'
'  l
_        n
T
S
i'H

4

r
I


. F

PAT~n.

"A&amp;mine idamsdre," said Mignon.
"Beard of Smitht h whatss'more'n that-he
wants youyouselfI" quoth Buckeye, bluntly.
"Ifmy-father does not say 'No,' why-Ithin k
We inafjossiblyssrange it," said Mignoin.
"pon   y'aoaul t  . believe 'it's a:nrranged
already, and very welarranged,:too !'Diable !
this wretched man died :suddenly," .added
Bllmart
"There's another that ought to-follow him,"
affirmed Buekeye. " Where is the eretur, I
wonder ?"
Bielon looked arottd bfor'Headley, but.'he had
disappeared; and we will remark here as the
most'app opriate place, that he was never seen
again by'any ode :of the parties; what became'
of him is not known.
Awed by the fate of Mariot, disappointed by
the flight ofJeadley, and convicted of the error,
they' had; committed, the gold-seekers flocked
around the partisan .and manifested such signs
of repentaneraid. begged~so hard to be received
into his band again, that he'forgave them. The
whole party immediately set out on their return
to 'the:encampnient' at' the canon. The trap-
per that had -started for the rescue of Brion
from the 'Blackfeet, accompanied him to the
rescue of Mignon; but were concealed in a wood
about half a mile distant.
While the body of Mariot was being interred,
the partisan and:Mignon walked alone, discours-
ing 'of recent events.  The- latter hearing a
aund behind her, turned andbeheld iavenelaw.
Brion also discovered him at the same -mo-
ment.'
" Son of the Buffalo !" said he,,calmly, "the,
Great Spirit has given yon a charmed life. You
have conquered 'your enemies; you have been
as successful 'insWe as on the trail. You will
live many moons,-andhe happy."=
"Chief of the Blackfoot nation, may you live
longer and be':happier than I,"' answered Brion,
*arnaestly'°
-4I: ask not for 'life," returned I avvuelaw;,
proudly. ".The rising and setting of suns can
fring no JOY.' thkos l of Ravenclaw; -the'wan-
ing and falling ofAmoons are to him but mean-
ingless'this.' 'But,ion of 4he Buffalo,.it is
diffetent with thee; thou hest a country, thou
hast Lilyfaee,"

I0have much-to live for," said-Brion.
"Your people are growing in greatness even:
as mine are- dwindling away," added :Raven-
clawsadly. "Y r Y nation Will ioon flow over
these mountains, and my race will be pressed
to -thosea, But I:shalenot'live to see it1 I
shall have passed to the  duuting-grounds when
the white' 'man plants uponthe graves of my
fathers."f
"Go'with me to the cities of the white nanj'
suggested Brion.        .
"Cursed be the cities of white me    'ed
Ravenclaw.
'"Ravenclaw, you have a noble nature," said
Mignon, advancing and laying her hand on his
arm. He looked, down upon her and amiled4
The sunlight shining upon his lofty brow, lent a
strange charm to his face.
",The voice of Lilyface is like the dove," he
added, softly.
"Tell-me," resumed -Mignon, in a low. tone,
her -hand-still upon his arm, "who is Redpath ?"
He drew back haughtily, pushing her gently
from 'him; his eyes glittered like fire.
"Lilyface  bas a short memory; 'she has ,for-
gotten what she heard in yonder motutains.
Redpath is the son of the Eagle,- and he Scorns
to share his' secret with another. Again I say,
I know-him not ; that'to me he is the greatest
of all mysteries-mysterious ,as the .soul within
me. I repeat it--Redpath will live unknown -.
he will die high up in the cliffs-no cars shall
hear his passing thunder-the paleface, shall
never behold his grave. To the great and awm
ful Master of Life he will commgend his spirit,
and pass away   becomes his name ,and deed.
Son of the, B  al, adieu    Lilyf    '. the
chief's voice faltered, a little-" Lilyface, farae-
well, forever i"
Ravenclawsprang from the rock; -his m jestie
figure was visible ansinstant, and then was hid,
denfromtheir sight-they saw him no ,moe..
Brion's trapping campaigns are over. BY,: hs
own fireside he talks with Mignon of .Redpthi
Balaam, too, participates in his curiosity. Mig
non grows pensive at the snention of his name,
and is persuaded to this day, that Rvenclaw
and Redpathlwere one; while Buckeye, in ;b
annual visits to Westport, swears by the bear4
of Smith," whatever Mignon says must betrue.

7lE END.

4'

84

P.
h..
A .w... ..,  . _ .


  
             
         
       
   
