
    ----CITATION----
        N. M.. Hester Somerset .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7135
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Hester Somerset 
            
               8o3

IIESTER SOIMERSET:

i                   4
I
I
., 1
a.
1
i
0
i
i
1
i
r,{ z                                     l

Ft.'l 4v

i
I
I
i
i.
r

PHILADELPHIA:
A. lARTLAT C AREY AlIDW HART,
126 CH1ESTI UTTEB .
18 5f.

,.K.: jy  ~  . _.,~   C      .  .i_  d '  F     ., M    . # t      l+

4, it~t   meicafl, Exam tlIast  ou botTitioU.

"   9
' z 3
3
- 1
1
1-1

,,

BY

l .

COPLETE IN ONE VOLUME.

N******* M****.


f
b
t
#
"
_         %
Y            t0
t
'

0

PIrLADELPIA:      -
T. K. AND P. ,. COLLINS, PRINTERS.

I

~p

CONTENT&amp;.
BOOK I.
CHAPTER L
The Temple-introduction of one of our characters ........................
CHAPTER II.
The lady has been won-the brother's curse ...............................,.......
CHAPTER III.
The marriage-day ..........................................................................
CHAPTER IV.
The little attorney of St. Mary .Axe-the secret compact...............
CHAPTER V.
An old Elizabethan mansion-the first-born:...................................
CHAPTER VI.
A daring and criminal action..................................
CHAPTER VII.
We return to the Temple-the accusation .....................................
CHAPTER, VIII.
Min sometimes love when they do not know it........................
CHAPTER ,IX.
Our  heroine  ........................................................................... .
-CHAPTER X.
Early traits-"he would be a soldier" ........................
CHAPTER XI.
A bold determination-the pretty pleader...........................
CHAPTER XII.
First love.......... .......................................................................

II

/1

.T+

9
12
14
15-
19
21
24
28
29
30
33
35

-                             ',   -'  -'     '"'?'yp P ' -Y  """^' .s-, ._         "its  V    -      _    f 14+..    -

..  :    , .    w.     ,..w  .w   , n
r
_ '            ;.:,

4k.

I


iv                       CONTENTS.
CHAPTER XIII.
Love's first lesson..................-----..- ..    . .....38
CHAPTER XIV.
The Templar.........................................."... 41
CHAPTER XV.
A quaint locality in the city-Mr. Jeremiah Pike in domestic life.......42
CHAPTER XVI.
The secret consultation-how shall they ruin him?.--"-~~-........... 46
CHAPTER XVII.
Temptation...............................................t49
CHAPTER XVIII.
The great London director ................51
CHAPTER XIX.
The first step down the hill of ruin-farewell to the country---............ 54
CHAPTER XX.
Busy life in London-Roland Hartley visits his victims.------.............. 56
CHAPTER XXI.
Mr. Somerset at the StockExchange--the confidential, dinner......... 59
CHAPTER XXII.
The rpined speculator ....... -'--------,..----.------~........ ...........61
CHAPTER XXIII.
The angler ensnares his prey.................    .............. 62
CHAPTER XXIV.
The ruined gentleman's retreat-the base overture................ 63
CHAPTER XXV.
The law  does its work  ............r . ...'.- -~ ~ -.---------e--............  68
BOOK TI.
CHAPTER I.
The ruined gentleman in the Fleet Prison......... .   .      71
CHAPTER II.
Hester visits her-father in -rsen-...............7

CONTENTS.                                V
CHAPTER III.
Hester in her solitary lodgings  .......................---............  74
CHAPTER IV.
Hester in search of a situation..................----.-...........77
CHAPTER V.
Hester's first struggle in the great metropolis....................80
CHAPTER VI.
The hunchback musician..........................          ........82
CHAPTER VII.
The two villains  ....................................... 85
CHAPTER VIII.
Mr. Pike's first manoeuvre .......... .......... ........... 87
CHAPTER IX.
Mr. Pike is indefatigable-a scene at Madame Mongolier's .............."89
CHAPTER X.
Hester Somerset has turned artist-her deformed lover .....................93
CHAPTER XI.
The great hospital across the water..........---..-.......... 95
CHAPTER XII.
Hester at Bethlehem Hospital ...................... ..................97
CHAPTER XIII.
Hester among the picture-dealers.-The broker of the "seven dials," the
ingenious "maker of the old masters"............. ..........100
CHAPTER XIV.
Mr. Pike and his solitary dinner.-The fair-artist's last hope ........---..-104
CHAPTER- XV.
The two enemies.-The magistrate       ........................... 107
CHAPTER XVI.
Hester enters a new field of employment.-The avowal of love........-108
CHAPTER XVII..
The visiting member of the "Fraud-Preventing Society".......----..112

.a 4 T+

- i
E
F , x
a
rF ;    t

1
'  i
4                                                              -

r
t
........ ..,w. ..... t..- .... M.    s......-.«w «...M.    ..

. -


_4S

4

T ..
tY Y',
C
n r+
i,.LV r
r'                    1
.4+
t
_      s       9
_
.y          i
'     ¢   31+
i° '
}.   ,
,  i
a         ,  ~a:
'i  ,    i   .1  k
+    'S  'T ^    rJ 'R  i
F

vi                          C O N T E N T S.
CHAPTER XVIII.
Misfortunes accumulate  on  Hester  ..................--............................... 115
CHAPTER XIX.
Hartley and Mr. Pike have another conference-................................... 117
CHAPTER XX.
A coffee-house near the Fleet Prison.-The Hunchback musician is tempted
to commit a villany.................................... 118
CHAPTER XXI.
The struggle between vice and virtue ------...................................... 121
CHAPTER XXII.
The meeting in Bartholomew-Close -the web is weaving more closely
around  H ester...........--------------. --------.... ................................  122
CHAPTER XXIII.
The house of mock-marriage at Westminster....................        124
CHAPTER XXIV.
The victim  is lured into the snare .......;-----......................... ....... 127
BOOK III.
CHAPTER I.
Hester Somerset is in the power of the Hunchback ...................., 131
CHAPTER II.
The fie  of Hester is decided  -----"--"---. -... -............................. ..... 133
CHAPTER III.
The Hunchback and his mother-a scene in the Fleet Prison ................. 134
CHAPTER IV.
The turnkey's daughter .---"."-----------------..-...................136
CHAPTER V.
Hester Somerset and her pupil in the Fleet Prison ..............................138
CHAPTER VI.
Hester Somerset has turned school-mistress-a scene at Doctors' Commons 140
CHAPTER VII.
Hartley visits Mrs. Somerset at Bethlehem Hospital ..................... 142

fl
f
I,
, .
f l
1
L
:
t
i
i'
;
f
r
F;
C
i

-      _       _                 ' _           :,    .. _ 1"  .  °. x" :   _               -     _  -   - _                  _                                 -                                                    1a1  4 _i+                                                           q's j3.   C +14'a. Z '            Yi

.- .,,    ,

i

CONTENTS.                                   vii
CHAPTER VIII.
Hartley receives an unexpected visit at his chambers in the Temple ........ 144
CHAPTER IX.
The death-struggle in Hyde Park...............................        146
CHAPTER X.
The pauper funeral-the prospects of Hester brighten .......................... 149
CHAPTER XI.,
Mr. Pike and his notable plan for breaking up Hester's school ............... 150
CHAPTER XII.
Mr. Pike's scheme produces results ................................ 153
CHAPTER XIII.
Hester's life in danger-the distress of the imprisoned father ................. 154
CHAPTER XIV.
The cottage at Brompton................................ 157
CHAPTER XV.
The musical composer.................................. .159
CHAPTER XVI.
A discovery.......................................... 162
CHAPTER XVII.
Hester makes her ddbMt as a singer...............--------"--------............-. 165
CHAPTER XVIII.
The singer's success-the equanimity of Mr. Pike is disturbed .............. 167
CHAPTER XIX.
Hester and her money-the robbery ...........................170
CHAPTER XX.
Hester's money has vanished-the police-office.................-----------....175
CHAPTER XXI.
Mr. Pike in Newgate ....................----"--    ..........--.....-177
CHAPTER XXII.
Mr. Pike is visited in prison by his old patron.....................:...........----179
CHAPTER XXIII.
The farewell to the Fleet Prison-thi'last visit to Bethlehem Hospital..181

.y v.   -          _-            -                y  s '   -

_        _   _     Jr _                ^_  ii _.                 y  L
y -
x_                    ka            ._ .. v.


4x

a
'i                       ryY
'^
r A            _                             r*
.__.                                     1

y'

CONTENTS.
CHAPTER XXIV.

R  " J f 4

HESTER SOMERSET.

B00K I.

CHAPTER I.
THE TEMPLE-INTRODUCTION oF ONE oF
OUR CHARAcTERs.

THE Temple, London-there is some-
thing venerable and antique about the
very name; it awakens reminiscences
of events totally unconnected with the
present age ; it speaks of manners,
customs, and institutions long passed
away and extinct in the civilized
world. Small patches of ancient Lon-
don exist in divers localities; but these
are fast dwindling into points, such as
single houses, old church-towers,- and
crumbling walls. The Temple exhi-
bits still a fair" assemblage of build-
ings on which rests the shadow of days
long departed. We do not mean to
assert that the firstedifices erected by
the Knights Templars in 1184, when
they removed hither from their house
in Holborn, are now standing; the
noble Round in the church, however,-
where the prostrate effigies of the
knights are seen slumbering in armor,
dates back to that period. In ,1308
ended the glory of the Order of the
Knights Tenplars, for in that year
Edward II., following the example of
Philip the Fair of France, summarily
arrested the half-warlike, half-religious
brotherhood. William de la More, the
last master in England, sighed over the,
extinction of his - order and the confis-
cation Qf its wealth. He was, never--
theless, happy in not suffering death
at the stake, like the grand master
in France, whom the merciless Philip
burned in an island of the Seine.,
Shortly-after this event, the Temple
was assigned over to the practitioners
of the law, and it has remained, we
2.

scarcely need add, under their quiet
jurisdiction to the present hour.
The Temple has suffered much at
various periods from fire, Wat Tyler's
wanton conflagratio in the time of
Richard II. being t e first, we believe,
on record. Many houses, in conse-
quence, of con  atively modern date,
have sprung up; yet, in spite of the
strange and diversified appearance of
several -of the courts and ranges of
building, where the spirit of the pre-
sent seems mocking the spirit of the
past, still, we repeat, Antiquity has
made here a determined stand. Yes,
Antiquity looks from the high-perched
attics, gables, and sloping roofs; his
broad face laughs out on the red-brick
fronts; his -old shoulders support the
round stone arches of many a passage
and doorway leading to spiral stair-
cases; he watches the elm-trees along
King's Bench walk, so black, so wither-
ed about the stout old trunks, yet bear-
ing in summer fresh green leaves, like
hopes- springing out of sorrow. lHe
passes in scorn the modernized terrace
and garden, but sits in pride on the
ancient hall overlooking the splashing
fountain; the turrets of that hall,
crowned with crosses, seem limbs of
his strength ; and the curiously stained
windows, gleaming in the sunset, re-
flect his purple smile.
Ay, brave Antiquity, though droop-
ing, mourning elsewhere, is strong and
joyful here,; and let no cold, unimagi-
native utilitarian, by pulling down, re-
erecting, and "beautifying," destroy
his pleasant dreams I-
Should there be one among our
readers who has never visited the time-
honored abode of the Knights Tem-
plars, we despair" of giving him any-

V

viii

Hester and the Professor of Music--we take our farewell of Mr. Pike ..... 184
CHAPTER XXV.
Unforgotten love--the confession......................---"--------...... .... 185
Cny-APTER XXVI.
In which our history draws to a conclusion...........187

'         J

,t°  j            t
P
;j
I 1            \ s
'  t  i
1 j            4
1           h
F     i
t                 s
[ ;
{ r
"     1          F
i
9 1 {
d             a
d t 1
t
a          F
i
4     '          f
kj  1            1
E                C
c
i,              {t
!
r
r
t          r
i             f
I 1
i          ;
a
!             i
1
sr

Fam.

rI I

,,
a

4

"

_r

JI.

..fit            _ .      wr  _                         i           e   _         _     ''          _
_ _   _              !,. -  _      1 !y  i       1.
l


HESTER SOMERSET.

HESTER SOMERSET.

t
jr
W     t
t     g  $
t
i

hing like a correct idea of the sin- of houses, but a pleasant view was
gular place, Let him, however, know caught of the busy Thames.
that it comprehends the district which,  The person alluded to, though he sat
lying south of Fleet-street, is bounded at his table, did not seem to be en-
on the east by the once celebrated gaged in business ; indeed the room, in
Whitefriars, on the west by. Essex- its general appearance, had little of the
street, where stood, in ancient days, character of an office. True, sundry
the palace of Queen Elizabeth's fa- ponderous law-books were ranged in
vorite earl, and on the south by the shelves around the apartment, but the
river Thames. Within he will find accumulation of dust on their covers
a maze of small squares and nonde- intimated that their valuable contents
script courts, composed of very high were rarely consulted by the owner:
houses, many of which display little a few rolls o~f parchment, and bundles
antique dormer windows, surmounted of old paper tied with red tape, lay on
with triangular tops, and which look the table, but were in reality thrown
out like eyes on the roofs. Sinuous together as a blind ; in other words,
passages lead to other courts, and again they were meant to lead people into a
openings beyond, retaining the quaint belief that in those rooms law business
appellations of Pump-court, Figtree- was transacted. There was no clerk in
court, Mitre-court, and so on, until attendance-there were no heatedines-
the stranger is bewildered and lost, sengers hurrying from Westminster,'
and begins to entertain the very natu- or the inns of court ; the postman,
ral fear that ,he shall never extricate bustling so busily about in other quar-
himself from this almost Cretan laby- ters, came rarely to those chambers : all
rimth. All the way as he goes he reads was lonely-all was silent.
on the posts of every doorway a long  And there leant the solitary man, his
catalogue of names, comprising a sufli- elbow resting on the table and his head
cient number of lawyers, one might on his hand.' He was abstracted,
imagine, to settle the disputes of all moody, sullen. The domestic sparrow
the litigants in the world. How such chirped in the old tree without-he did
an army can find employment, or make not hear it: the genial sunbeam  of
the most meagre livelihood, the clever- spring shone through the dull case-
est calculator might be puzzled to de- ment, and lighted up the duller room
termine.                           -he did not perceive it. His finger
The  church, with   its spacious beat his forehead, and his foot the floor.
round, its armed knights, its restor-  The last-named actions indicated
ed black clustering marble pillars- that the man was not a statue, or a
rich, gorgeous, the very gems of ec- corpse--that he lived, and felt.
clesiastical architecture--would baf-  We must take this opportunity of
fie any attempt at description. Emerg- describing the personal appearance of
ing from these buildings on the south Roland Hartley, such being his name,
side, we enter on the open    space for he will act a prominent part in the
where the old knights used to practise events we are about to narrate.
feats of arms,. and dream away their  May the physiognomy be depended
hours in the sunshine, thinking of Pa- upon as the index of the mind? Is
lestine, the Saracens, and the Holy the face the mirror wherein are reflect-
Sepulchre. The gardens now encroach ed the moral qualities? As a general
upon this once broad area. Proceed-, rule, the answer will be-Yes ; yet
ing onward, we reach the Thames, the many are the individual cases forming
boundary of the Temple ; and here we exceptions.
must close our imperfect sketch of this  Hartley, then, was a man of a sinis-
venerable and far-famed locality.   ter, dark, and malignant mind ; yet no
It was a fine April morning in the casual observer would have read as
year 18- when a gentleman was seat- much- in the quiet expression of his
ed in his chambers in the Temple. handsome countenance. His forehead
The rooms were on the first floor of one was broad and massive, being shaded
of the old' houses in King's Bench by black crisp curls ; his mouth, the
walk. In front rose a lofty tree, whose reverse of the sensual, was small, the
age might-have equalled that of the lip% being compressed and hard; the
building. The Temple Gardens were muscles of that feature, rarely relaxed
entirely screened by the opposite range ,into a smile, but, when they did, his

:

teeth glistened with a pearly white- quiet and retired as many a rural nook
ness. The cheek-bones were rather a hundred miles away.
high, and the jaw was large and promi-  At the moment we have introduced
rent ; but these peculiarities, by no him, Hartley was sunk in deep thought.
means objectionable, seemed to inti- Whatever his cogitations might have
mate a strength of character, a decided been, the frequent knitting of his brow,
will, and a firmness' of resolution. the beating of his foot, and the cloud
His complexion was clear and pale. that shadowed his whole countenance,
He cultivated no whiskers, shaving plainly betokened they were connected
himself closely: thus he looked young- with a painful subject.  At length,
er than, in reality, he was. He might like a man who has settled some ques-
have passed for twenty-five ; his age tion, or arrived at a resolution, he
was thirty-three.                    struck the table with his clenched
One feature alone' in the countenance hand.
of Hartley was calculated to raise dis-  "Nature ?-affection?" he said, in a
trust. It was the eye. Small, and whisper to himself. -"Pshawl Ihave
deeply set in the head, his eyes were nothing to do with them. I see in him
overhung by large bushy brows; the only my successful rival-my mortal
latter were not arched, but formed in enemy. She, too, whose beauty once
straight lines, being continued almost maddened my brain.-Well, the in-
without a division. The color of the fatuation is over-the dream is at an
eyes it was difficult to define, varying end."
with every ray of light which might , He-rose slowly from his chair, calm,
fall upon the face. Moreover, the lids, frigid, each feature having settled into
if incapable of the usual muscular its accustomed repose; the lids drooped
contraction, fell so low that they nearly over his eyes, his lips were compressed,
covered the pupils. They were not and no line of troubled thought could
honest eyes. When the owner spoke, be discerned on his smooth expansive
they were rarely directed to the person forehead. He had visibly 'mastered
addressed, but looked askance, or were his emotions; the surface of-the current
fixed on the ground. This practice was placid; the wild ferment, the
did not arise from timidity or lack of struggling, the boiling of the waters,
self-possession, for fear was a feeling were all beneath.
unknown to Hartley, and few men pos- Hartley walked into an adjoining
sessed more assurance than he. Those room, and paced up and down. Unlike
eyes were commonly still, reflective, the chamber he had just left, the apart-
and cold as icicles, or they rather re- ment was handsomely furnished, offer-
sembled-the eyes of glass fixed in an ing all the elegancies, and luxuries
effigy of wax. There had been times, that a bachelor might desire.  Half
however, when Hartley had been seen drawing-room, half library, it contained
to yield to strong and terrific passion. ottomans, easy chairs, rosewood tables,
Then his eyes underwent a strange and buhl cabinets, while one side dis-
transforiation ; the drooping lids were played a large collection of choicely-
elevated, the pupils dilated, the uncer- bound volumes.
tain hue seemed turned to fire, and   It is said the bent of a man's mind
from  their 'bloodshot depths flashed is easily discoverable by the nature of
forth all the savage wrath which we his books. No works of an elegant,
see in the eyes of an incensed tiger, amusing; or light description, were
and all the merciless malignity which found on Hartley's shelves. They all
we suppose to belongto those of a fiend. partook of a sombre, abstruse, and phi-
Mr. Hartley had been called to the losophical character. The only works
bar for several years, but he possessed of imagination were the plays of the
sufficient property to live without the Greek tragedians, and Hartley was a
aid of his profession. This fact will profound Greek scholar.  The, ideas
partly explain why his chambers gave expressed in those writings were pecu-
little evidence that business was ever liarly in accordance with his own.
carried on there. He had, in truth, no Man, the frail puppet of a coercive
relish for the law. He lived in the destiny, driven by the breath of Fate
Temple because it was secluded. Yes, over the great sea of Time, without
although in the heart of busy London, power to alter his course,,or escape the
the place, by its peculiar position, is as rocks of 'evil which lurk beneath the

10

11

, f
_ I.
,
"  1 ,
.N
.,
_"'-(
'
.,

Li

r'

-fit


12

HESTER, SOMERSET'

r  a
I

HESTER SOMERSET.

ip
AWI '.

waters ; urged into crime whether he extended to him his hand, but the latter
will or not, and therefore scarcely did not accept the proffered courtesy.
responsible for his acts-so taught With a freezing air, he drew back a
lschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides ; few steps, and pointed in silence at a
and so believed the modern philosopher seat.
and stoic-the proud, stern, unforgiv-  Mr. Somerset was embarrassed, and
ing, unsympathizing Roland Hartley. his smile gave place to a look of sorrow.
He took a volume into his hand, and,  "Roland, this will not do," he began;
throwing himself on a sofa, endeavored "why persevere in your coldness-
to read. It was evident, however, that your anger? Your conduct gives me
just then he bad no relish for study. great pain."
His eyes wandered from the page, and,  "If I give you pain, you had better
in a few minutes, through abstraction absent yourself from my chambers. I
or forgetfulness, he dropped the book ask you not to call."
on the floor.                         "I came with a hope of removing
But Hartley now slightly started. any misunderstanding that might exist
Hie stooped his head forwards in the on your part, and of establishing be-
attitude of listening. A step was heard teen us perfect good-will and fellow-
on the staircase, and a mild voice in- ship."
quired of the laundress whether Mr.   "Good-will and fellowship ?-you
Hartley was at home. He seemed to jest-nonsense i"
recognize that voice, for his cheek,  "Why should I jest ? Roland, my
lately pale, turned suddenly to crimson, brother, why should I not be in ear-
and his eyes, opening, sent forth one nest ?"
of those fierce malignant flashes of  Brothers !-yes, these two men were
which we have spoken. A moment brothers. They owned, it is true, dif-
served to check this rising emotion; ferent fathers, yet had they hung on
and Hartley's exterior was perfectly the same breast, and lisped the same
cold and calm ; a low tap was-heard at sweet name when calling on the author
his door, and a gentleman entered'the of their being: strong should have
room.                               been the tie between them ; but the
silver cord was broken; hatred, in the
breast of one, trampled out and extin-
guished the sacred fire of fraternal
CHAPTER II.              love.
"Roland," continued Somerset, "I
THE LADY HAS BEEN WON-THE       appeal to your good sense, your reason,
BROTHER'S CURsE.          your, knowledge of the world. Do me
justice. Do not harbor- enmity with-
THE visitor who stood before Hartley out a cause. Have I used any unfair
was older than himself by some seven means in our unfortunate rivalry?
or eight years; he was less fashionably Was not the field equally open to
dressed, and, as regarded his features, yourself as to me ? Nay, you- had the
he might be pronounced less handsome. advantage of me in years and in per-
But. the greatest contrast which. the son."
new-comer offered to the other was in  "But I had not your estate."
the expression of his countenance.    "Again must I solemnly declare
Everything that opposed harshness, unto you that the lady knew nothing
frigidity, and gloom, beamed there. of this until-why, you well know I
You saw good-humor in .the dimples passed under another name, purposely
of the cheek; sweetness about the soft that no chance should exist of her be-
lines of the mouth; honesty in the ing biased in her choice by mercenary
clear, bright, and open eye; and these views ; therefore, I repeat, until-"-
you could not possibly believe assumed "Go on-until she refused me, and
for the occasion. The gazer immediate- accepted your humble self, she knew
ly felt he might trust him; in short, nothing of your real position. Be it
that he was one of the few men to so. ,I dispute not your chivalric course
whom nature has not given the capa- of action. The question is now de-
bility of playing the hypocrite.    cided; you will marryIsabella Mill-
Mr. Somerset, with a sunny smile brook."
on his face, approached Hartley. H~e ."M1y dear Roland-"

13

" I want not your sympathy-I need
not your pity."
"What can I do for you ?-how can
I serve you ?  If you think yourself
aggrieved-if it would at all advance
your happiness-I freely,) gladly agree
to make, over to you half my, estate."
This generous proposal was no idle
offer, spoken for the sake of effect.
Somerset meant what he said.
"Man, I am   no miser. I despise
your wealth."
"But we must not continue enemies.
Something must be done to reconcile
you to me. You are my only brother,
and as such I must ever regard you
with affection."
"Pshaw !-you waste breath. Our
paths in life are now in opposite direc-
tions.  Leave me to myself.   Go-
prolong not this interview."
Hartley turned his back, and walked
towards the window. He looked out
upon the ground infront of the Temple,
and, as if to evince his utter indifference,
began to hum a tune. No anger, but
anxiety and deep sorrow, were depicted
on the countenance of the elder brother.
" Hear me, Roland!-bear with me !"
cried the flatter, laying his hand on
Hartley's arm. "You still love Isa-
bella; your heart bleeds. Oh! I can
fully enter into your feelings ; I can
imagine your distress !"
"IDistress?" exclaimed Hartley, turn-
ing sharply around, a fierceness in his
accent which made the other start.
"I have no distress ; and as for loving
Isabella, the unworthy, the mad passion
I once experienced, has passed into-
another feelitig."
Somerset was much relieved. He
secretly rejoiced to think that his
brother had achieved that ever-difficult
victory-the conquest of self.
"Right, -right !  I thought your
strong mind; your excellent sense,-
would' prevail. Your natural intel-
lectual power, aided by your severe
studies, places you far above myself,
Roland, in controlling the inclinations,
and bringing the' passions under the
dominion of reason."
"You are pleased to speak in enig-'
mas: I am at a loss to understand what
you aim at."
"In plain language, then, for your-
future peace and happiness, as well as
for my own, I am not a little gratified
at hearing you assert that your love-
for Isabella has given- wauy to other

--S
S

40

I, 4

feelings. Believe me, she esteems you
as a friend-a dear friend ; and you
have our mutual good wishes, our
prayers, for your prosperity and happi-
ness in life."
Hartley turned slowly, and cast a
withering glance at the speaker. His
brow was gradually contracting ; his
cheek was becoming momently more
pale, and his limbs trembled. All gave
evidence that he wasstruggling with
some strong internal emotion-an.emo-
tion he desired to veil, but which made
itself apparent in spite of himself.
" Listen to me !-understand mel"
he exclaimed at length, in a deliberate
measured tone ; but, as he proceeded,
the words fell from him rapidly, and
he spoke with vehemence. "I admit
that my love for Isabella has ceased, is
extinct ; but it has been succeeded, as
I said, by another feeling. That feeling
I cannot describe -to you: contempt
and hatred are weak terms to represent
the sentiment I now entertain for her.
Her beauty to me seems but the beauty
of a Hecate just risen from below.
Her late iniagined virtues have all
vanished. Oh, how could I have ever
listened to that voice and deemed it
music! The recollection of the tones,
like horrible discord, grates on my
memory; her image rises before me,
foul, detested-"
"Cease !" cried Somerset, seizing
his brother's arm, and griping it with.
a force that made him utter an in-
voluntary cry.. " Speak not thus of
the gentle being whom I am about to
make my wife. I am bound to protect
her from insult and slander as if I were
already her husband."
"Nay, I will neither insult nor
slander her., I wish only to show you
how my once tender feelings have been
converted into something more than
apathy. Her refusal has made me the
man I am. Circumstances bind me in
their iron chain. A short time since
I could not conquer my lovb, and' now
I cannot repress my hate. For your-
self-" he paused an instant, dooped
his eyes, and when he lifted the  again
the late flaccid lids were drawn up,
the pupils were distended, and they
seemed full of that savage fire peculiar
to them.in times of unnatural excite-
ment-"For yourself, I have few words.
Your presence is as a cloud on my
spirit; you seem to make the very air
around me pestilential. I regard you

4

8

sit
t~ I! r
F

t   t


p.?,

-t

HESTERv SOMERSET.

HESTER SOMERSET.

s k  S           t
h H
'      r  y

CHAPTER III.
THE MARRIAGE-DAY.

WE must transport the reader to a
quiet rural district in Norfolk, not far
from the sea.
The traveller, in passing through
that fine. English county, cannot but
have .observed .the numerous very an-
cient villages which nestle in the valleys
or dot the sides of the green hills. Each
village boasts, like a heavenly protector,
its old Norman or Saxon church. Some
of these sacred edifices are entirely
covered with ivy even to the summit of
the square rude towers ; and the gazer
beholds them with feelings of deep
interest mingled with awe. Worship
has been going forward within their

as a brother no more, but a foe, whos
death would not rejoice me, for then
could not hope to behold you living is
torture. You have won, the woman
whose hand I likewise sought-go, we(
her ; and ere you leave these rooms
never to re-enter them, receive m)
blessing on your approaching marriage
or call it, if you like-my curse!'
"May you continue to love you
wife, dote on her, only to find her false
May the nuptial pillow prove to both
of you a pillow offthorns ! May you
have children only to turn scorpions in
your own bosoms ! May each fawning
friend prove a traitor, and work you
disgrace and ruin ! May the Heaven
you place confidence in frown on you,
and forsake you in your old. years!
And may your last hour be-without
hope !"
While the unnatural brother pro-
ceeded with his malediction, Somerset
remained perfectly still, as if under the
influence of.a spell. His feelings were
harrowed, and his amiable nature was
shocked. He now gradually, as without
consciousness, moved backward, still
gazing on the incensed and excited
speaker, whose. every word fell like a
drop of gall, or a spark of fire, on his
heart. Overpowered at length, he sank
into a chair, and, slowly bending down
his head, covered his face with his
hands. His breast heaved, his manly
cheek was wet with tears, and he
groaned audibly, " My brother! my
brother !"7

e walls generation after generation ; the
I dead of a thousand years are gathered
n around them. Empires have been over-
n thrown, dynasties have been changed ;
d but there they stand in lowliness and
, quiet, speaking of rude and earlier
y times, whose ill-recorded events are
fading into fables, or utterly forgotten
-breathing of God, and pointing with
r their gray towers like finger-posts to
! heaven.
Over the hills that embosom one of
these villages morning had just dawned.
i It was a pleasant sight to watch the
sun gradually ascending, as it were,
from behind the sea, shooting up his
divergent rays like ten thousand arrows
of gold. His great broad disk at length
! emerges from the brim of the waves,
and ocean, like .an immense chalice,
seems full of sparkling rosy wine.
Higher yet he mounts above the float-
ing vapors, and the gold changes to
silver ; higher yet, and all is dazzling
lustre.
Beautiful, all-powerful sun! land-
ward dreamy nature wakens up ; the
hills throw  off their. night.robes of
mists ; and the woods hail him with an
anthem from the throats of countless
rejoicing birds. He is an enemy to
none but the fairies: they fly at his
approach, and bury themselves in
thickets, or beneath the verdant earth,
through terror of-his presence; and he,
thirsty giant! great Behemoth of the
heavens! drinks up all the nectar dews
which, through the night, those inde-
fatigable fairies had been distilling so
diligently in their cups of flowers.
In the old Norfolk village the spar-
rows had quitted their nests beneath
the thatch, and the peasants their beds.
Yet no husbandman, with scythe or
spade, was seen trudging forth-no
horse was harnessed to the plough, or
bullock yoked to the wain. Is it the
Sabbath-day ?-no. Are they oppress-
ed with a sudden fit of idleness ?-we
are bound to-deny it. The inhabitants
of that hamlet were never more active,
and never seemed more full of business.
The foung girls were tripping here and
there into the gardens, heaping their
laps with flowers, and the old women
were dressing the children in their
best attire.   T
Scene of the young men had hurried
off to the old church-tower, which was
clothed in a green garment of luxuri-
ant ivy. There they hoisted a great ~

4

14

15

'-,. .  i S ,

i

red flag to flaunt bravely in the breeze  So the flowers were strewn by the
-a flag emblazoned with the arms of peasant-girls ; the prayers and bles-
the squire of their parish. Another sings were murmured by the gray-
detachment was busy in completing headed patriarchs of the hamlet ; the
sundry arches made of poles and wil- bells were lustily rung, the old 'pinna-
lows, spanning the road which led im- cles of the tower, each stone, the very
mediately from the church. Then ivy itself, shaking and quivering, as if
came up the tripping blooming girls they likewise shared the general joy,
already spoken of, holding their laps having no other method to express
full' of flowers; but ah! the violets themselves but by that tremulous mo-
were not bluer than their merry eyes, tion. The ox was roasted. The feast-
nor the peonies redder than their ing progressed; and tankards of ale,
fresh pouting lips. The young men brewed strong for the occasion, foamed
descended from their ladders, seized on all down the long benches which were
the roses of the girls, snatching at the ranged on the village green.
same time a hasty kiss from-the roses  Then the round broad sun set over
of their cheeks; and speedily the the western hills, himself red as a
arches, by their cunning workmanship, merry toper, and pleased, no doubt,
were covered with festoons, till, loaded with the scene of happiness he had
with that floral wealth, those arches that day witnessed in a small corner
blushed like the young maidens below of his dominions.
watching'their lovers at work ; or they  In the cool of the evening, the
looked, in the rich diversity of their sports began. The bowling-green was
colors, like so many small rainbows thronged with young men-desperate
springing up along the road.       players at bowls, quoits, and skittles.
It is to be a holiday ; a day of re- Dancing, too, was going forwards be-
joicing - a day of feasting.  Their neath the flowering May-bushes, the
squire is to be married. In the gray striplings and lasses performing Sir
Norman church yonder the ceremony Roger de Coverley with more spirit than
will be performed. The parties'are science, and sending forth their, mirth
Hugh Sofherset and Isabella Millbrook. in such ringing, light-hearted laughter,
Simple race ! happy successors of as would have done the very soul of a
the primitive Arcadians ! enviable state Timon good, could he have heard it.
of ignorance.of society and the world!  That was, indeed, a day to be re-
The children of the soil, rarely exer- membered by all to the end of their
cising the faculty of reflection, behold lives-the marriage-day of Squire So-
but one side of the picture. A mar- merset. So said the old men who sat
riage-day must, in their opinion, be a apart smoking beneath the trees.
day of joy.  The flowers, the glad   Would such days came more fre-
faces, the bells, the sports, the feasting quently-came less like "angel visits,
-can these pass around them, and any few and far between," to you, children
heart be sad ? above all, carl the wed- of the soil!-for such days vary the
ded themselves yield to any feeling but monotony of your dull career, and
an exuberance of delight?          lighten the burden of your heavy toils.
We do not, in making the foregoing
observations, mean to insist that So-.
merset was unhappy. No, he felt
deeply for his brother; he had been          CHAPTER IV.
stung by his bitter unforgiving wrath.
But a full consciousness of the recti- TEE LITTLE ATTORNEY oF sr.-MARY AxE
tude of the part he had acted brought     -THE SECRET COMPACT.
him support and peace. Then he loved,
and was beloved.   The dear being    MR. 'HARTLEY was - sitting in his
about to link her lot with his had re- chambers in the Temple, with a morn-
signed her happiness to his keeping, ing paper in his hand. Cursorily he
and he must be worthy the trust. His glanced over the news, which seemed
mind, in truth, was relieved of its bur- little to interest him.
den ; and his heart fully shared in the Suddenly his eye was riveted on a
happy excitement which affected his passage. His'forehead became flushed,
humble tenants,and the youthful dwell- and his hand trembled.
crs of the old Norfolk village.      As if ashamed of the emotion to

I

i i i #i 4 ! 4
i  t   74   '   ft    1
r +   +   F        f

,.C                                                                                        _                 -s...           -


U

HESTER SOMERSET.

HESTER SOMERSET.

I
oil

which he yielded, though no being was note was addressed to Mr. Jeremiah
there to behold him, he suppressed by Pike, Attorney, St. Mary Axe.
coughing the rising in his throat ; then  The post duly conveyed the epistle
folding the journal, and quietly placing to Mr. Pike, and, the next day, that
it on the table, he whispered a few gentleman presented himself at the
words to himself, indulging a habit to chambers of Hartley.
which solitary men are frequently     We must here pause for -a minute
addicted.                           to give our new character an introduc-
"Well, I did not conceive it would tion. He is by no means an unim-
take place so soon. Married ?-let it portant personage, inasmuch as the
be so. Festivities ?-.ha! ha !-the poor. deeds of Mr. Jeremiah Pike will exer-
country wretches should weep rather cise considerable influence on the posi-
than rejoice at this wedding of their tions and destisnies of the principal
master. And is- Somerset, is Isabella actors in our history.
happy? Pshaw !'tis false. No human    Lawyers, considered in a body, none
being is happy. There is a canker dare dispute are most honorable men.
worm at work in'the roses of every en- Yet their profession, no doubt, exposes
joyment ; and the man who says he is them to numerous temptations, much
happy I pronounce to be a hypocrite money being sometimes obtainable
and a liar."                        through trickery and fraudulent prac-
Hartley quitted his chair, and paced tices. Hence, when a lawyer departs
slowly up and down, his hands folded, from the path of right, he 'does not go
as was his custom, behind his back. a few steps, but generally a great way.
He , stopped-moved more rapidly- When a lawyer is a rogue (and hap-
again stood still. His teeth were set; pily this delinquent class is compara-
his sinister eyes flashed. Once more tively small) he is a rogue par excellence.
his lips moved. At first no articulate Few can approach him in knavery. He
sounds were heard, but at length his beats all other rogues with their own
mutterings, shaped themselves  into weapons. He wades through the mire
words.-                            of foul fraud, and fights his way
"A vow ! yes, I will make a vow, through black actions, being usually
and it shall bind me to aline of con- able, from his knowledge of "the law,"
'duct from which I will never swerve. to'escape harmless, and come off with
My employment henceforth shall be to triumph.
trample on the necks of those who     The character of Mr. Pike must be
have wronged me. The end and aim    permitted to develop itselfthrough the
of my existence shall be revenge. I feel medium of events. We can only in
now but that one passion, and to in. this place present a brief outline of his
dulge it I will spend my fortune, I will person.
risk fame and life. This shall be my  The lawyer of St. Mary Axe, Lon-
vow-to pursue without ceasing, co- don, was a man about forty years of
vertly or openly, my deadly enemies. age. He vas short in stature, spare in
Not to kill them, for then they would limb, but withal remarkably active. A
escape me, but to sap little by little squirrel skipping from bough to bough,
their fancied happiness. To add trial or a wild cat springing twenty feet
to trial- disgrace to disgrace-torture .upon her prey, was scarcely more agile
to torture. To keep them, like crixpi- than Jeremiah Pike., His face, once
nals in ancient times, on the rack seen, left a permanent impression on
.until-" he lifted his hand, slowly con- the mind.  Like Napoleon's, it stood
tracting thefingers, as if in the act of out from among all other faces. -It
grasping some object-"until, wholly was easily recognizable in -a crowd.
in my power, I exult over them, I crush The idea of it could never be blended
them !"                             with that of another man's.  Here,
Hartley wiped the perspiration from however, we must confess that all re-
his forehead, and he seemed to have semblance of his face to the counte-
relieved himself by forming some defi- nance of the French emperor ceased.
nite plan, by embracing some decided  The features of Mr. Pike were sharp
course of action. He approached his and meagre in the extreme, answering
desk and penned a hasty note. It con-: precisely to the, very expressive term
tamed only the laconic sentence, "Call " hatchet."  His little tawny brow was
on me the first opportunity." This so low that it scarcely deserved the

designation of forehead: ascending,
however, in an oblique fashion, it
assisted in forming a remarkably lofty
head, which might contain, within its
spacious chambers, a sufficiency of
brain to satisfy the most exacting
phrenologist. That pyramidal or sugar-
loaf shaped head was adorned with
straggling tufts of red hair; his eye-
brows, too, were red; and his small,
narrow whiskers, projecting' like two
claws along his cheeks, were of the
same fiery hue. His mouth was wide,
but perfectly straight, and, being dry
as parchment, appeared to be exempt-
ed from those natural adjuncts-lips.
His nose was his best feature; it was
large, and hooked like the eagle's beak,
and completely saved the face from
insipidity. , The  eyes, too, though
small, were black and very brilliant.
They were restless eyes, turning like
beads of jet, and darting their quick
rays in all directions, giving evidence
that the soul, whose dictates they
obeyed, was of remarkable activity.
The impression produced by Mr.
Pike's whole appearance seemed to be
that he- was clever, crafty, daring-
he might be a rogue, or he might be
an honest man: his general conversa-
tion, and the excellent sentiments
which: he sometimes -expressed,~ led
you to infer that his conscience was
tender, and that he had a high regard
for principles of integrity and 'virtue.
The little lawyer, with hat in hand,
bowed low to Mr. Hartley.. That
gentleman received him with unusual
urbanity, drew for him a chair, and
pushed towards him the decanter of
Madeira which stood on the table.
Mr. Pike was not insensible of the
courtesy, for he smiled blandly, as he
placed his tall hat upon the floor near
his chair. Yet he was not a man to be
deceived by any one: in short, he knew
the other intended asking of him some
favor.
After a few observations on ordinary
matters, Mr. Hartley opened the busi-
ness on° account of- which he had sum--
moned the attorney to his chambers.,
"I have known you, Mr. Pike, for
several years.  We are pretty well
acquainted, I believe, with each other's
pursuits and position in life."
" Well acquainted, certainly-very
well," said the little man, who opened
=r_    his round eyes, being rather puzzled,
Sand also surprised, at this preamble.

KJ?

16

"You have served me on more than
one occasion, and I have paid you for
it," said Hartley.
"You ' have, sir ; and I am always
thankful for any little business you
may throw into my way. These are
hard times, Mr. Hartley. It is very
sad that people won't apply oftener to
attorneys-that they begin to show a
contemptfor the beautiful laws of this
country, and will settle their own quar-
rels. Ah ! I say, it is very sad." And
Mr. Jeremiah Pike heaved a deep sigh.
" Attend to me. We can benefit
each other. I am assured of your
ability and your expertness., Serve
me faithfully, and I will make it worth
your while.  I will not seek to bind
you by any solemn promise, or any
oath, to carry out my plans and never
to betray me; for promises between
man and rhan I regard as dust in the
balance, chaff in the wind."
" Say not so, Mr. Hartley.. Do not
entertain so bad an opinion of human
nature. I, at least, never violate a
promise. My word, once given, is
sacred. I would rather die than betray
a trust."
As he gave utterance to these ami-
able sentiments, a deep solemnity
shadowed Mr. Pike's long face, but on
Hartley's lip played a cold, sneering
smile.
"Far be it from me, Mr. Pike, to cast
a doubt on your good faith.or integrity;
yet I confess I would rather bind you
by the strong chain whose links extend
from the prince on his throne to the
beggar on his dunghill-self-interest.
I would so arrange matters that, while
serving me, you should serve yourself.
Pray, may I ask what you usually
make per annum by your profession ?'
Pike turned uneasily in his chair,.
scratched one of, his red eyebrows,
then the tip of his large .ear.; looked
steadfastly on the floor, as if examin-
ing the patterns of the carpet,.coughed,
again glanced up, and shook his head
sorrowfully at the decanter of Madeira.
" Your question is rather personal
-rather awkward, Mr. Hartley.; How-
ever, since, a close connection, it, ap-
pears, is to be established between us,
of course I willhide nothing from you.
Wly, then, owing to the horribly
peaceful times in our quarter ; owing
to the dreadfully few failures among
my immediate friends, whereby the
do not require my assistance; ad

17

--                 _        '!. -     ''.v_                .:i.~'-w:       .    S6 MiL ir_. .".aiiswi+. *ti.:
j

,
'

3
(k
"
G
2
p C
1
r                                4t
L
R
i

t;
Et' { i   n
1 { i { i f t;
lit

'
,


HESTER SOMERSET.

HESTER SOMERSET.

j
i
_
a
;t
;
q-
k
f   ,
_ i _  t
.3i
1'
s.
t
.  
.i
,,
i
x'
.-r
i  i

S
t
.

1
i     f SQkq
t  2 SJ}Y k
f i }

owing to the rascals punctually paying would devolve upon him, so as in a
their rents, a circumstance preventing manner to warrant the handsome sti-
me from levying distraints, I have not spend   granted him. He knew  Mr.
made for some time past more than Hartley was not a person very re-
one hundred paltry pounds a year."  nowned for liberality: and it was
And yet you work hard: you exert altogether opposed to his. notions of
yourself.                          philosophy to suppose a ian will give
"Certainly I do. I run about en- much; and expect little in return.
deavoring to make business six hours  "If I may ask," began the attorney,
in the day, but can't,pan't set with great nervousness in his manner,\
people by the ears-I mean find out sitting on the extreme edge of his chair,
any quarrels. And then I sitfor hours and stooping, as he paused to cough
in my office-expecting."           -" if I dare ask; sir, what may be
Very well ; I perfectly understand. the nature of the services required of
You shall lead a more easy life in me ? It isnot from a doubt of being
future, Mr. Pike. You know my ca- able to carry through 'any business,
pabilities of paying."             however perplexing, that I mpake the
Never doubted them. You are a inquiry ; no, no; I hope I may say,
fund-holder, Mr. Hartley. Ah ! firm without boasting, that few men can
man-solid man-good man, as we say push through. difficult actions and
in the City."                      thread intricate mazes of the law
."Now attend. I will grant you an better than myself."
income of three hundred pounds a      "I assure you the business is simple,
year. You shall draw on me at sight -and will occupy a very small portion
for one hundred and fifty pounds every of your-time." "Hartley lowered his
six months, and I will duly honor your voice to a whisper. "I must explain;
draft."                            I must reveal to you my situation, my
The little lawyer seemed stunned, stu- feelings, my objects ; this is absolutely
pefied with amaze. Such generosity he necessary, or you-will not understand
had never anticipated; such wealth he the ground you have to tread over, but -
had never dreamed of. Visions of will be working, mole-like, in the dark."
saving, of purchasing stock himself,  His brow contracted, and he hesi-
for the first time flitted across his ex- tated, as if unwilling to proceed. The
cited imagination. His small eyes proud Hartley found it difficult to bring
sparkled and glowed like black ripe his soul to stoop so far as o discover
sloes when thA morning dew is on its secret sentiments to a  being like
them; his cheek, chin, mouth, and the man before him. Buthe ruling
forehead appeared to beam and smile,; passion of his breast soon overswept
and even his huge aquiline nose, by all such reluctance and scruples.
its nervous twitches, evidently sym-  "Come this way," said he, griping
pathized with the inward delight of his Pike by the arm. The latter; suffered
soul. He could only clasp his hands himself passively to be led into the
and exclaim, "Generous Mr. Hart- inner room.     .
ley !"                               Hartley bolted the door, drew a chair
"The annuity will last so long as for the attorney, and placed himself,
you serve me faithfully. In other opposite. . His manner was steri, im-
words, it will cease whenever you think perious, and well calculated to-overawe
proper to prove traitor to my interests." those in communication with him.
That Pike would prove traitor'to his Pike, with all his hardihood and ef-
patron's interests, under the circum- frontery, confessed the spell which a
stances, was not very likely. Hartley superior nature, evil though it be, ever
had taken a profound view of human exercises over the inferior-: he quailed
nature,, by rejecting, in his dealings beneath Hartley's look-and words, and
with this man, allidea of binding him felt in a measure his servant and-slave.
by promises involving his honor, or by  When Pike quitted those chambers
solemn oaths. Such bonds, with men in the Temple, ,his usually sprightly
of the class to which Pike belonged, eye was bent on the ground, his cheek
are totally ineffective. The lawyer, it wad pale, and his knees trembled and
is true, was profuse in his assurances knocked each other, so that with #iffi.,
of eternal fidelity, yet he could not but cult he could proceed in, a straight
imagine that some very onerous duty ,line, It was'evident that the compact

which he had entered into raised in him
a feeling of fear. The duty he had to
perform would either expose him to
great personal danger, or the crimes
contemplated shocked even his unscru-
p ulous and villanous soul. At length
is countenance brightened, he walked
more briskly, and from time to time
rubbed his lean hands, and chuckled
with inward glee.
"Three hundred a year-one hu.n-
dred  and  ifty  pounds every   six
months," he whispered; "and no more
running about to make business. 'Tis
prodigious, wonderful! I can't with-
stand the lure. Pm   Hartley's. I'll
serve him to the death. Conscience?
I've as tender a conscience as most
men, I believe, but I think I can argue
it down this time : and as for crime, if
such there be, it lies with the employ-
er, not the employed-with the work-
man, not with the tool. Yes, come
what will, I, at least, shall be an in-
no-cent man."
Oh ! Jeremiah Pike, striving to de-
ceive thyself-to throw dust into thine
own eyes: sophist even in solitude !
Thou fearest that the consciousness of
sin migt alloy the pleasure received
from th  possession of 3001. a year.
Would there were not so many in the
world like unto thee, Jeremiah Pike !
but, alas 1 the stifiers of conscience,
the hushers of that still small voice
which comes from nature and from
God, are characters all too abundant.
So thou wilt rub thy hands, Jeremiah
Pike ! eat, drink, apply the " soothing
unction" to thy soul, and endeavor to
be happy.

18

ther, being dead, and having no rela-
tions, except a few very distant ones,
the brothers were almost alone in the
world, the last representatives of their
line. Their estrangement from each
other, therefore, was the more to be
regretted, for the enmity, though it ex-
isted on one side only, did not the less
form an insurmountable barrier be-
tween them.
Brookland Hall was a venerable-
looking pile. Built in the early part
of the reign of James I., it displayed
the architectural peculiarities which
distinguished the mansions erected in
the reign cif his predecessor. So mark-
ed, indeed, was the character which
the domestic architecture of Elizabeth's
time assumed, that the style has ac-
quired for itself a fixed designation:
namely, the Elizabethan.
The, building occupied three sides of
a quadrangle; it was low, compact,
but of considerable dimensions. The
red brick, of which material mansions
of the period were almost invariably
composed, was relieved by white stone
buttresses and raised facings, tech-
nically termed quoins, at the angles of
the walls. A low balustrade, marking
a later date of erection, ran along the
edge of the roof, which was also adorn-
ed at the corners with - large - and
quaintly-carved urns. A clock-tower,
surmountedby a metal vane, rose above
the centre of the building. Such a
tower might now be thought a disfigure-
ment, but in ancient days it was re-
garded as yielding dignity to the main
portion, and harmonizing with the ad-
vancing wings.
The front windows, having been
somewhat modernized, were square;
the others displayed the narrow Tudor
arch, having strong stone mullions and
diamond-shaped panes.. The principal
doorway was of massy oak, the posts
and lintel being elaborately carved.
The portico, round on the -summit and
of stone-work, was- supported by four
Tuscan pillars, which had been origi-
nally cased with marble. A lofty and
handsome pediment, gave almost an
air of majesty to this antique entrance.
In truth, the pediment had long been
an object of admiration ; and it was
evidently the work of a classic hand,
for the tympanum, or inclosure within
its sides, was filled with figures carved
in high relief, and of exquisite work-
manship.

19

i     ,     ;
;ft    i
- f   , i
, ,
, i;:t 
i
'      k
,
: $      i
1
s=,'; t   ?
y   i
y  ' ;f    {t
Y  t  -  i
:   fff  ,
;   '
:s-
i tt  E~     I
4  ttt;   '  4
F i
i  t  j     f  '
i
[[itS
.f  :

CHAPTER V.

AN OLD ELIZABETHAN MANSION-THE
FIRST-BORN.
MR. SoMERsET'S seat in Norfolk was
situated in the windings of a beauti-
fully wooded valley, a few miles from
the sea-coast. He possessed Brookland
Hall and the domain attached by right
of his mother, who had been sole heir-
ess of that very ancient property. As
we have already stated, the lady had
one child by her second marriage, Ro-
land Hartley, and who was amply pro-
vided for.    -
Both the fathers, as well as the mo-

.- r

r
g
d
t
s,

x
is
tR
!'
y  :
i
a
F
^-
F;
&amp;?
{
1
r;
I
Pr ,
C
'
a
r.
.  i

i
.

1
-;;
£ , ,
t  ,
. ,

p


HESTER SOMERSET.

HESTER.SOMERSET.

The terrace in front of Brooklan
Hall, and the gardens beyond, ha
,nothing about them of the quaint Eli
zabethan era. They were essentially
Italian. Long lines of white balus
trades, ornamented with balls and ston
rosettes ; huge vases at every corner
and statues on tall pedestals ; broa
flights of steps, flanked also by balus
ters, leading from the terrace to the
parterre below; ponds with little green
islands, the last being adorned with
summer-houses or grottos of spar-al
betrayed a southern taste. The park
which was extensive, swept away in
gentle wave-like undulations, until the
opening country -nearly lost the ch'a
racter of a valley. A small brook, from
which the manor took its name, divided
the park, and over this stream several
rustic wooden bridges were thrown.
The trees, dispersed in groups, were
principally sycamore and oak, some of
them being of gigantic size and of ex-
treme age. Herds of deer, drinking at
the brook, or standing on the green
knolls in relief against the sky, gave
animation to the picture.
Hugh Somerset, at the time this chap-
ter -pens, was alone in his library.
He stood at the window which over-
looked the park. -Great anxiety was
depicted in his countenance, and yet
his face strangely expressed the coun-
ter feeling of pleasure. That his mind
was much disturbed appeared evident
from his gestures and his incessantly
moving from place to place. Now he
turned hurriedly, from  the window,
caught up a book, flung it down again ;
next he threw himself into his great
morocco-covered chair, and, looking at
the door, which stood ajar, intently
listened. A low cry was heard as of
some person in extreme pain; it ceased,
and again the voice of suffering fell on
the ear- more distinctly.
The face of Sonerset changed, and
the moving muscles, especially the
tremulous motion of the lips, evinced
how strongly -those sounds jarred on
his feelings, and excited his sympathy.
He now clasped his hands, and seemed
absorbedin prayer. -The husband pray-
ing for the young wife that, Heaven
would look down in mercy and love,
support one so gentle and good through
Nature's trial, and lighten in this in-
stance, if Eternal Justice could not
suspend, the curse of Eve.
The cries succeeded to each other

d with shorter intermissions, and light
d steps, as of agitation and fear, were
- heard passing up and down the stair-
y case. Somerset could support that
- state of suspense no longer. He quit-
e ted the library"on the ground-floor, and
, ascended to the room communicating
d with the chamber of his wife. His look
- was now haggard, his limbs trembled,
e and his accustomed presence of mind
n was fast deserting him. To every in-
quiry which he made, a whisper only
l was returned or a slight motion of the
, head.
The sounds of pain ceased. It was
a moment of intense anxiety. The sud-
- den stillness might be a sign of'good,
or it might forebode ill.
He was proceeding towards the room,
l with an intention of entering'it, in
spite of the injunctions previously given
hinwhen he was met by the medical
f man. The good doctor placed his fin-
ger on his lip, but Somerset beheld
only the quiet smile which covered his
face, and read there in an instant all.
he was so desirous of being assured of.
She lives! the worst is over! and a
child is born into the world !
How many myriads of fond hearts
this announcement has caused to beat
wildly with joy!
Somerset seized and wrung the doc-
tor's hand, unable himself to ask any
questions, or even to speak.
"I congratulate you, sir; your wife
is doing well," said the kind-hearted ac-
coucheur. "Ah! Mr. Somerset, she
has borne her trinl with wonderful
fortitude-patient as an angel. r She
often called for you, sir, wishing to see
her husband ; but of course that could
not be allowed-of course not."
And again Mr. Somerset shook the
doctor's hand ; but while he was ask-
ing permission now to enter the cham-
ber, an elderly woman appeared at the
door.aShe bore something in heraarms
swathed in a dozen flannels and inde-
scribable wrappers. Approaching the
master of the house with a courtesy, she
presented to him, in accordance with
the nurse's practice, the little stran-
ger.
Somerset received it with the awk-
wardlness of a man to whom such family
affairs are a novelty, but with a heart
brtniming over with-joy and gratitude.
A profound silence=ensued for a mo-
ment. A tear trembled in the- eye
of the agitated father ; -iui-ing that

silence, Somerset invoked mentally a
blessing on his first-born daughter.
CHAPTER VI.
A DARING AND CRIMINAL ACTION.
Two months had barely elapsed from
the birth of Somerset's child, when a
man in a light vehicle, which we may
term a gig, put up at an obscure, host-
elry on a rather solitary road in Norfolk.
He stated that he had travelled from
Wells, although in reality he had come
in an opposite direction-from London.
His name, he said, was Smith--a name
so abounding in all places, that very
probably the good publican had usually
a dozen customers called Smith within
a week. . Why the gentleman should
have had recourse to these fabrications,
a satisfactory reason no doubt existed;
but we, who are well acquainted with
his person, at once pronounce the
counterfeit Smith to be Pike: yes, the
little active frame, the sugar-loaf shap-
ed head, the great eagle nose, and the
round lyilliant sloe eye, could be Jere-
miah Pike's nose, head, and eyes, and
no other man's.
Heintended ,to drive out in his gig
every morning, his business being, as
he affirmed, to collect small bills for the
Wells merchant who employed him.
The task might occupy him two days
or double that time, the farmers who
owed the money living widely apart.
All this was very probable.. The pub--
lican respected commercial men; so he
provided everything very comfortable,
and Mr. Smith was to pay his reckon-
ing punctually each- day before starting
on- his rounds.
We. view Mr. Pike, for we must call
him by his' proper name, busy at his
breakfast the first morning of his arri-
val. 'He occupied a private room.' His
appetite was usually keen even to vora-
ciousness ; but on the present occasion
some secret anxiety appeared entirely
to have -destroyed his relish. for good
things. Indeed,, he ate every morsel
much like a man who fears being
choked.
3 Havingbeen satisfied with his scanty
repast, he drew from his side-pocket a
liteIndian' rubber bottle, and began
to.pour into it some new milk. While
roring with the process of " fill-

ing," Mr. Pike whispered to himself,
but in tones so low that no ear but a.
fairy's might have caught the words.
"Nay, nay, whatever Hartley may
urge, I'll never do that. I'll riot have
the memory of a murder pressing on
my soul. My nature is too humane,
and endowed with principles too noble
for an assassin. So, this will keep life
in the babe until we reach town.- I
think I shall make a tolerable nurse--
hal ha! Twist the innocent's neck?
Never ! Yet if it will die through the
moving, after all my exertions, it can-
not be helped." A smile, that sought
to express the soul's rectitude and
mercy, flitted across the lean visage of
the little attorney of St. Mary Axe ;
and with that smile fixed on his face,
he bade the landlord good-day, and set
forth in his gig.
The horse, a docile, but a remarka-
bly strong and fleet animal, was driven
in the direction of Brookland Hall, that
place being situated at a considerable
distance. When, however, Pike ar-
rived within three miles of Mr. Somer-
set's house, he alighted, and left his
horse and vehicle in the court-yard of
a pothouse. Here, again, he thought
proper- to have recourse to falsehood.
He boldly informed the hostler that he
was on the look-out for smugglers, and
probably should be absent for some
hours. Meantime, his horse must re-
main feeding in the harness, since he
should want his gig the instant he.re-
turned, his business requiring the ut-
most dispatch. Five shillings made
the hostler very courteous, and fully
convinced him, in his simplicity, that
the liberal gentleman was indeed a
government officer.
The active attorney,' now on foot,
soon reached byta circuitous route the
thick wood which bounded Brookland
Hall towards the north. He was soon
lost amidstitsshades; butwell acquaint-
ed with the ground by hpreviousrecon-
notehe passed through" the tail trees,
and threaded the brushwood, entertain-
ing no fearof losing his way. At last
hefound himself on the confines of the
park, and springinginto the deep turf
ditch or fosse, which extended outside
the palings, was completely concealed.
Whatever Mr. Pike's object might
have been, he approached the house-as
near as possible without incurring the
risk of discovery. The hall was now
within a quarter of a mile, when, with

r'

11

20

21

is
t
3
f
i     1

.;_              _       _    _      _ =r       _
a


HESTER SOMERSET.

HESTER SOMERSET.

i
i
i
,1
. i

2pv

his hat off, peering over the edge of
the fosse, he seemed to consider his posi-
tion an eligible one. Accordingly, tak-
ing out, his handkerchief, he spread it
on the turf at the bottom of the ditch,
and sat down to-watch!
It was about eleven o'clock in the
forenoon, and the slight mist which
had obscured the morning gradually
cleared away. From his hiding-place
Pike could see the entrance-door of the
hall ; the garden, too, in front, with its
winding gravel walks, was entirely
commanded by his eye, while a narrow
footway, leading down the park, swept
not more than twenty yards from the
place where he sat.
Often rising and creeping up the
bank, and casting around him his little
brilliant eyes, then returning to his
station, frowning and muttering, Mr.
Pike was evidently in a state of much,
perturbation.
To any one who could have seen him
there, he had offered a singular specta-
cle. From the nature of his low seat
he was obliged to bend forward, his
hands resting on his knees, so that his
body, being nearly doubled,-formed an
acute angle. Those hands, in their
long skinny length, resembled - claws
rather than human members. Having
forgotten in his excitement to place
on his hat, his red matted hair fell
from his high-crowned head, covering
his low, flat forehead nearly to his eyes ;
the last, incessantly turning about, and
never winking, burned like sparks of
fire. His old brown garments were
drawn closely around him, and the
thick pendent branches of trees, waving
-above his head, invested him in their
deep shadows. Such a figure, seen in
a tropical climate, would have suggested
but one idea: the traveller would have
thought him an orang-outang.
Between his risings up- and sittings
down, Mr. Pike held a running dia-
logue with himself, the object of which.
seemed chiefly to be the quieting'of his
conscience, and the setting forth of cer-
tain arguments in justification of his
conduct.
"Does Mr. Hartley act wrong? No
doubt of it, very wrong. His motive
is black revenge, unnatural black re-
venge. Am I right in assisting him?
I think I am. If I refused to do his
business, some other party would be
sure to undertake it for that three hun-
dred a year ; some scoundrel perhaps|

-some unprincipled, hard-hearted vil-
lain-who would even more than carry
out Hartley's orders. Now I, yes I,
will blunt the edge of his hatred, and
temper each act with mercy. Any one
else, no doubt, would murder this child,
but I will be its preserver ; it shall not
perish. Ah ! who knows"-he had be-
gun to.nibble at a biscuit, for he, felt
hungry-" who knows but I shall be
even doing Mr. Somerset's child an
essential service ? If left here, sur-
rounded by superfluities and luxuries,
very probably she would grow up proud,
haughty, and even vi'cious-ay, repro-
bate in this life and lost in the next.
Now, by carrying her off from the scene
of temptation, and dropping the babe
at that -    workhouse, she may be-
come hereafter a good, modest, virtuous
servant, marry an honest-laborer, and
be loved, respected, and happy."
Pike was not altogether a hypocrite,-
but one of the large -family of casuists
and deluded quieters of conscience. A
placid, self-approving smile was dif-
fused over his countenance. He was
charmed by the vision his fancy had
conjured up-charmed by the idea of
his own amiability. In short, he wish-
ed to feel, while undertaking a mest
criminal and cruel deed, how philan-
thropic and merciful in reality he was.'
But his biscuit, being finished, the
little man took out his pinchbeck watch
to consult the hour. - It was past one
o'alock.. Again he peered cautiously
over the brink-of the fosse. His quick
eye perceived a female figure descend
the steps of the terrace in front of the
hall and enter the garden. She bore.
something in her arms. It was the
nurse with the -'child, taking the' ac-
customed airing.
Pike's eyes followed her motions like
those of the boa-constrictor watching
its prey. He was in a fever of expecta-
tion and eagerness.
Suddenly a cloud came over his face
and he muttered an oath, for a serving-
man made his appearance, and Mr. So-
merset himself entered the garden,
slowly walking, and reading' a book.
" Nothing is to be done to-day, that's
certain," said the little attorney, shak-
ing his bony fist at Somerset in the dis-
tance. " That scoundrel has balked me
this time. Never mind ; I can wait."
Turning away, he indignantly quit-
ted his lurking-place, cast another
glance at the party, again anathema-

tized Somerset, and plunged into the
shrubbery.I
The following day saw- Mr. Pike at
his post precisely in the same spot ; but,
as fate would haveit, the weather being
rather unfavorable, no one appeared.
He was not, however, a man to be dis-
heartened ; the spirit of Mr. Pike was
essentially a persevering spirit. We
find him accordingly for the fourth
time in the character of government
officer, leaving his horse and gig  the
little pothouse ; for the fourth time
ensconced in the deep ditch, watching
and peering about as anxiously as ever,
and at intervals sitting in the same
posture, his lean body stooping for-
wards, and his hands resting on his
'knees.
He had learnt that the master of
Brogkland Hall would be absent that
day on business, and therefore it was
that his black eyes beamed doubly
bright, and his heart leaped up within
him.
The weather was remarkably fine,
the air being mild, and the sun warm
and unclouded. All was propitious.
"Yes, yes, the woman will venture
out todayy" whispered Pike, "and per-
hapsalone."
His smile was no longer bland, but
had something ghastly and diabolical
in it. It was a sneer that would have
made you shudder.
He waited, and waited-counted by
his watch the hours, the quarters, the
minutes--looked and    ted himself,
and looked again. H1~ restlessness
and impatience increased every mo-
ment, untilthe perspiration stood in
large beads on his forehead.
The birds were singing among the
branches overhead, the deer were,
standing in quiet groups in the park,
and the old hall, half shaded by trees,
and half in the sunshine, looked the
image of repose. Ah! what a contrast
to the calm scene was the tumult of
feelings in that mans heart ! Here
was serenity and beauty; there, strife,
storm, deformity-here was paradise,
there was hell. -
The starting eyes of the watcher, as
he looked out of the ditch, intimated
that he perceived something. -A figure
moved in the garden. He could not
be deceived ; it was the woman with
the child, and a young groom, or page,
a stripling of fifteen years only, was
with her.

_ _ _

Ji

4

22

Now, man with the black, self-deceiv-
ing soul ! thy time approaches. Somer-
set is from home ; the invalid mother
is confined to the house, and there,
borne in careful but feeble arms to in-
hale the sweet breath of heaven, comes
the helpless, unconscious victim. Oh !
guardian angels of innocence! will ye
behold the foul deed done and make no
effort to' avert the evil? or must ye,
like mortals, yield to destiny, whose
purposes are to be worked out?
The stripling swung back the gate
which opened into the park. They
passed- through, and, lured by the
beauty of the morning, the woman pro-
ceeded slowly onwards with her charge.
A path, we have observed, wound
through the park, approaching in its
serpentine course to within some twenty
yards of Pike's hiding-place, A row
of trees stood opposite to hiih, shading
the footway, so that parties who walked
beneath their low drooping branches
would not be visible to gazers from the
windows of the hall.
Pike now hastily made his prepara-
tions. He buttoned his garments close-
ly about him, drew a small silk mask
across the upper part of his face, to
prevent the possibility of future re-
cognition, and grasped firmly a short
thick stick-short, for it was no more
than three feet long, but it was knotty,
and loaded at one end with lead.
Would they enter the path just al-
luded to and approach his lair? that
was the question. The hideous spider
had spread its net and was watching
the unsuspectingfly. The tiger, crouch-
ing amidst the jungle, meditated his
deadly spring upon the defenceless
antelope. Pike looked no longer the
little' crafty, smiling- attorney of St.
Mary Axe; his situation had converted
him into a savage, a worse than beast
of prey.
He thought of the resistance which
the young groom might possibly make,
but the uneasy idea was instantly re-
moved by a glance at his heavy stick.
Everything like fear was merged in
wild and anxious- expectation. His
nerves seemed strung by a supernatural
energy. In a word, he felt himself
equal to the undertaking.
The youth ard the female bearing
the child had entered the path. They
approach nearer and nearer. Fearful
was the excitement manifested by hin.
who watched them; each limb trem-

23

t
f
3
i
(?
4
f
f
F ,


.24

HESTER SOMERSET.

i
w
a
i
I
.,
I
'
1

animal that served him so well. It
would be a dark and moonless night;
what horseman, even if it were known
.which way the delinquent had fled,
might hope to overtake that desperate
man?

ur4 j qf
lit
_ i 11f
" -  tr

bled ; every muscle, in its . quivering
action, sympathized with the intense
eagerness of the spirit. His red hair
bristled, his yellow teeth, like fangs,
were apparent through his thin parted
lips; his bony hand grasped the end
of his stick, relaxed its hold, and again
closed on the cudgel like the iron sides
of a vice.
Already Pike's glittering eyes mea-
sured the distance between himself and
his prey. Forty yards-thirty yards
-closer still. When they have reach-
ed the trees, and their backs are slightly
turned from him, then must he bound
upon them. The moment was come !
Up from.the ditch he sprang-over the-
palings, light as a wild-cat of the
mountain, he leaped. His staff was
raised in the air-it descended upon
the head of the youth, who at once fell
to the ground stunned. The woman
had no time even to shriek, for she was
struck down by the same formidable
weapon. Then the assailant snatched
the infant from her arms.
The trees, by their hanging branches,
hid the atrocious scene ; but Pike, to
make certain that an alarm should not
be raised too soon, and himself pur-
sued before all traces of him might be
lost in the neighborhood, struck the
boy and the woman again on the tem-
ples as they lay on the ground. In
truth, his heavy cudgel did all but beat
in their skulls. Self-preservation was
the only plea our conscientious friend
could urge for such cowardly and cruel
conduct. But Pike tarried notto reason
or philosophize now. The prize was
won ; and his income of three hundred
pounds a year was doubly assured to
him.,
Like an arrow from a bow, he darted
with Somerset's child into the thick
grove. Rapid must be the foot, and
fleet even the steed, that would over-
take the flying miscreant. The wild
Indian, who on his native prairie out-
strips the wind, might have found a
rival in the lean and nervous dweller
of the city of the civilized. In half an
hour from that time, even before his
victims had recovered from the stun-
ning blows they had received, Pike was
galloping off in his gig, urging his
powerful horse to the top of his seed.
His course was unhesitatingly and
boldly directed towards the metropolis.
He had taken his measures, arranging
befopehand the places for feeding the

HESTER SOMERSET.

25

step would be highly impolitic, and the spirit's anguish. Her beautiful
might even lead to its discovery."  brow seemed painfully contracted; her
"And, in that case, its restoration eyes were swollen with weeping, and
to the parents," said Hartley, quickly. around them was traced a faint dark
"You are right. Keep it close-keep circle. Her lips quivered, and their
it close."                          roses had given place to a deadly
Hartley turned aside ; it was to en- whiteness.  As she stood leaning
joy, unobserved and in silence, the heavily on her husband's arm, her agi-
luxury of thoughts as they r  up, one tation was so excessive that it appear-
after the other, in his min.  ictures ed as though every moment she would
of the past and images o    future ; drop upon the floor.
the assurance of that anguish' which  Somerset's form was erect. His hat
would overwhelm the parents now ; and remained on his head. His once mild
when time might soften their grief, the eyes gleamed with the fire of passion,
idea of some uncouth, uneducated being, but sternness and an expression of in-
some menial servant, or some houseless dignation were the chief characteristics
vagrant, perhaps, being discovered as of his altered features.- He confronted
their child-all, this gave birth to feel- Hartley, gazing fixedly on his face, but
ings which constituted the very refine- he did not utter a word.
meant, the ecstasy of revenge, and satis-  That embarrassing silence was brok-
fled the darkest demands of hatred.  en by the younger brother, who .had
But while Hartley was indulging this mastered his first emotions with con-
species of fiend-like satisfaction, his eye summate art. The surprise now de-
was suddenly attracted towards two picted in his face was counterfeited so
individuals who had just crossed the well that it appeared both genuine.and
open ground in front of the terrace, and natural.
were now close upon his chambers.     " Mr. and Mrs. Somerset," he began,
Could he be mistaken ?-did he dream? "this visit is indeed unexpected. To
-no, his senses did not deceive him. what may I ascribe.the bnor ? Cer-
They #were the last persons in the tainly something extraordinary must
world he wished just then to meet; have occurred."
and yet he might have expected that   Somerset did not yet speak to him,
some terrible suspicion awaking in but, placing his almost fainting wife
their bosoms would have urged them  into a chair, he whispered to her,
to London-to his office !           " Would, Isabella, you had not come!
They were already mounting the Would I had not yielded to your wishes
stairs. Hartley turned in great alarm -your supplications 1"
to Mr. Pike : no time was permitted   Then, turning, -he strode towards
the latter to escape ; and if he fell into Hartley ; it was evident, by the swell-
the hands of:Somerset, his residence ing of his throat and the setting of his
might be traced; and then,-in all pro- teeth, how difficult was the task he
bability, the child would be discovered. sought to perform-the task of coping
" They are come-they are close at with and subduing the passions raging
hand !" whispered Hartley -into the within.
attorney's ear.                       He laid his hand on Hartley's collar
" Who !" asked Pike, in consterna- as though he would prevent him from
tion.                 .   .         starting away.
" My brother and his wife !-this - "Roland! act not the hypocrite; it
way."  He drew the lawyer forcibly will not avail. Is this your cruel, your
by the arm into the next room, and diabolical revenge ?"
thrust him into a closet. " Silence, or  Hartley's features expressed no senti-
we are lost!"  Hartley shut the door, ment but blank and utter astonishment.
turned the key,'and, put it into his  "Speak plainly, Hugh; I cannot un-
pocket, then, hastening back, seated derstand you."
himself at his desk, and appeared to be  Plainly ?  I tell you, then, you are
busily engaged in writing.          a robber, a knave, a most unnatural
The door opened, and Mr. Somerset villain! You have done that which
walked in, supporting his wife.   - will expose you and those you employ
The latter, just risen from a bed of to the rigor of the law-to transpor-
sickness, was feeble, pale, and wasted; tation! Speak I not plainly now ?"
but, superadded to bodily ailment, was, " No; I hear you traduce me; I hear

WE RETURN TO THE TEMPLE-THE ACCU-
SATION.
Fox the first time since Hartley had*
been refused the hand of the woman
he once loved, pleasure was an inmate
of his bosom. That pleasure might re-
sult from the gratification of one of the
worst passions incident to our nature ;
yet the heart was not the less filled
with a stern, bitter, and savage delight.
"I thank you," he- said, addressing
Mr. Pike, who had been communicat-
ing to him the success attending his
adventure in Norfolk ; "you have
carried out my wishes in an admirable
manner: you have indeed managed this
affair with passing skill."1
Mr. Pike Ming his head, as a man is
wont do when applauded for some
magnanimous action. He glanced out
of the window, as if engaged in survey-
ing the old trees, coughed, and brushed
the top of his hat with- his brown
sleeve.
"And where is the child ?" asked
Hartley, in a cautious -whisper. " Did
the 'urried journey cause----"
"Its death, you would add, sir. No,
I am no murderer-thank Heaven ! my
conscience is light. Itook due precau-
tions. I fed it during the journey with
milk-new, wholesome milk ; and now
it is in the hands of a nurse."
The countenance of Hartley assumed
an expression of distrust and fear.
"S'death ! Mr. Pike, can you depend
on the party to whose charge you have
consigned the infant? What if she
should betray as?"
"That's impossible.  She believes
the poor innocent to be my-my-own
illegitimate child, its mother -being
dead."
"Good. But, as I before suggested,
you must drop it at the door of some .
house-that is, some prison 'or work-
house."-
" Yes, in amonth, when the hue and
cry will be over.' At present, such a

y,.ur   't

C

CHAPTER VII.

tf                          g
{{ i f
F                  f
f      {     1
i
1 t
E      #  . i                   333p
I
1

K

__         -        _  - k


HESTER SOMERSET.

HESTER SOMERSET.

you utter falsehoods, and heap on:me
insults: as regards all else, I am entire-
ly in. the dark."
" Thou liest ! Roland Hartley. Thou
art my brother-yet I say thou liest 1"
The muscles about Hartley's mouth
began to contract and his eye to dilate;
but the fire of rage was instantly smo-
thered, and gave place to a feeling ap-
parently of intense sympathy.
"I forgive you-I forgive-you this,
language, supposing some terriblemis-
understanding to exist on your part.,
What is it? Inform me, Hugh, what
is my crime?",
"You have stolen my child!" ex-
claimed Somerset, tightening his grasp
on Hartley's collar. 1
" Monstrous accusation I"
"Oh I give me back my child," cried
Mrs. Somerset, rushing forwards from
her chair with frantic energy. " Do
not deny you have taken it from'us-
in pity do not! Say it is with you-
say that it lives! Have mercy on a
mother's breaking heart !"
He whom she so ardently supplicated
regarded her for a moment earnestly;
but in silence. A light broke across
his countenance ; it was not mockery,
it was not pity, that strange unintelli-
gible expression. The soul was in-
wardly exulting, yet he- .dared not
betray and lay bare its hidden springs.
The woman who had rejected his suit,
preferring another, was now a sup-
pliant before him-now felt an agony
it was in his power to relieve. He had
suffered ; she in turn should suffer, and,
if it were possible, tenfold as much as
himself.      o
" Madam, I entreat you, compose
yourself and listen to reason.   I
solemnly declare this is the first time
I have heard of your loss. I forgive
you your suspicions, your wild accusa-
tions; perhaps they are natural. I am
an unfortunate man  I bear the cha-
racter of a harsh solitary ascetic; and
untoward circumstances have unhap-
ily made me my brother's enemy.
In the first heat of your bereavement,
then, to suspect me of being accessory
to the - infamous act spoken of, is, I
repeat, natural and excusable. But
oh ! do me justice! do even an enemy
who is candid, justice l I have made a
confession of my faults which I cannot
mend, and, of my bitterness which I
cannot soften. Do not lay this atro-
-cious deed to my charge. If, however,

you wish to be revenged on me-to
make the iron enter my soul beyond
the pangs I have already endured-
then indeed .you will persevere in call-
ing me the purloiner of your child."
The subdued manner, the mournful
look and voice of Hartley, were emi-
nently calculated to mislead. What-
ever his acknowledged errors might
be, a person listening to him might
well be induced to acquit him of hy-
pocrisy and falsehood. -Somerset, up-
right and honorable himself, was ever -
ready to view the bright side of human
nature. He was a man easily moved
and easily persuaded. He had, in re-
ality, no direct proof to substantiate
the charge, being influenced merely by
strong suspicion. That Hartley had
made an impression on him was evi-
dent ; and the wavering state of his
opinion might have been read-in the
comparatively mild look with which
he now regarded his brother, and the
glance of surprise he cast on his wife.
" Why, Roland, who but yourself
.could have had a motive in taking the
child? We have, hurried to London,
fully persuaded of your guilt ; but if
-if, indeed, you are innocent, then
Heaven forgive me for having accused
you!"
"He is not innocent!" cried Mrs.
Somerset; " of course he did not pur-
loin the child himself, but he employed
some villain to do it. Tell- me, Mr.
Hartley, if this be not the truth. Oh !
restore me my child ! On my knees I
pray-with tears I beseech-inform me
where it is,.and I will pardon you,-T
will bless you !"   -
The wretched mother had, indeed,
fallen on her knees, wringing her hands,
and sobbingwith unrestrained violence.
Her pale and worn face was, yet paler
from that agony which " bleaches the
cheek" while it rends the heartstrings ;
and- her disordered hair fell=over her
bosom, wet with her tears.   :
" This will not do," said Somerset,
raising his- wife from the floor. "If
Hartley be guilty, forgiveness is out of
the question ; the law will transport
the man hehas employed, and himself
also; and if the infant has died, the
gallows must be their portion. On the
other hand, if my brother is innocent,
we have to regret the wrong done him,
and to upbraid ourselves for the pre-
cipitancy with which we have acted."
" Hugh I how shall: satisfy you?'"

said the wily Hartley. "To prove t
you how deeply I sympathize on you
behalf, I confess I seem to have forgot
ten my late antipathy, the aversion
which my weaker or my darker natur
entertained for you. I am ready t
accompany you to a magistrate. I an
ready to do all in my-power to assist
you in discovering the offender. Bu
whether the robber be a professed child
stealer, or one of those vagrant wretche
whom we call- gypsies, I think, in thf
first place, a reward ought to be effere(
for his apprehension."
" And for the restoration of th(
cehild!I" cried the mother.
" Certainly," said Somerset, vacillat
ing between two opinions, and shaker
in his first belief more and more. Hi
doubts were beginning even to affect
his wife. She looked at Hartley, and
shuddered less. Her indignation visibly
subsided, and her manner, though ful
of sorrow, gradually softened towards
him,
"Children of a very young age,'
sId Hartley, addressing her, "cannot,
I believe, be easily identified, or de-
secibed. Are you aware, madam, that
the lost infant had any peculiar mark
whereby it might be distinguished from
another ?"
"Yes; a mole near the elbow."
"That peculiarity, then, should be
named in the description. Had we not
better at once repair to a magis-
trate ?".               - a
Mr. Somerset hurriedly for a few
moments conferred with his wife.
Hartley, as he stood behind them un-
seen, surveyed them from beneath his
bent brows. There was a singularly
malicious, as well as an exulting ex-
pression in the look which stole side-
ways from those half-shut eyes ; and a
sneer of ,.intense bitterness lurked in
the slight smile which, for'an, instant,
raised his thin upper lip. The speakers,
their conference over, turned,-and the
face of Hartley was calm and anxiously
sorrowful as before.,
"aRolad,"asaid the duped and kind-
hearted, brother, extending his hand,
"can you forgive us ? The, anguish
we felt in the first moment of our loss
impaired our better judgment. We are
now satisfied. We believe you to be
an innocent man I"-
Hartley did not consider it prudent,
this time, to refuse returning the court-
esy of him whom, nevertheless, he still

o regarded with sentiments of unmiti-
r gated hatred.
-   "Isabella," pursued Somerset, "is
n fatigued with her journey, and requires
e rest ; I will take her to the hotel, and
o return in half an hour, when we will
consult further together, and proceed
t to a magistrate."
t   Hartley approved of what his brother
- proposed, and Somerset and his wife
s immediately quitted his chambers.
e   It was with a feeling of indescribable
d pleasure and with much self-congratu-
lation that Hartley now, enabled to
e breathe freely, threw himself into a
chair. He had steered through the
- Scylla of a terrible difficulty, and had
not fallen into the whirlpool of Charyb-
s dis. So far he was triumphant, and
t all he desired had come to pass.
, But his pleasing .meditations were
disturbed- by a low knocking. in the.
l adjoining room, and he suddenly be-
thought himself of his coadjutor,-the
imprisoned attorney.  Hartley forth-
with proceeded to the closet, and set
him at liberty.
Mr. Pike, when he came forth,:was
pale, haggard, and trembling. He had
overheard portions of the late conver-
sation, especially that part which re-
ferred to transportation. beyond the
seas. Though conscious-of Hartleys
ability,,he had feared lest some chance
word, or unguarded burst of passion,
might have; betrayed their cause. , All,
however, had terminated satisfactorily;
and, receiving a full assurance of their
mutual safety, the little man grinned
a pleasant smile, nodded his head
briskly two or three times, and rubbed
together his lean hands.
" Now go," said Hartley; "for he
will very soon return. Stay a moment;
had you not better take the child and
the woman immediately into the coun-
try?"
"By no means. . The densely crowd-
ed districtof Whiteehapel, where every
alley and hole swarms with infants,
offers a safer place of concealment ;than
even, the wilds of Yorkshire, or the
mountains of Wales. I heard the mo-
ther speak- about that.mole on. the
child's arm; I'll find a method to erase
it, at least for the time: so if they should
be examining babies for the reward,
never fear, minesha'n't be identified.
But itis notlikely all the infantsin Lon-
don can:be examined-no,-it's an im
possibility. Rest satisfied, and trust

i1

26

27

r" +

- .             _     '  4 'S-may'
,             ,

I, :d:


i4

I

HESTER SOMERSET.

'HESTER SOMERSET.

to my long experience of London life,
and my knowledge of the best means
of getting easily through a difficult
business."
"Good day," said Hartley ; "you
will draw on me next week for the half-
year's income. I think it falls due
then."
" It does," said Pike. "Thank you.
Good-day."

i,
i :
i
t
.
.y
.w
.' -
t }  ; 4
J     ,i
-
i  '   i;
t,    ,   i'r
.^  -  'f
r - { t,
';'
f ,  i
f
,-
6
'7

MEN SOMETIMES- LOVE WHEN THEY DO NOT
KNOW IT.
THE wiles of craft baffled the lynx
eye of the law. Pike had taken his
measures so well that the child of
Hugh Somerset was never recovered.
Whether it died, or whether it was
subsequently received'into some me-
tropolitan workhouse as a foundling
dropped at their doors, did not appear.
The mystery remained unsolved. Pike
exulted in his cleverness, Hartley en-
joyed his revenge, and the parents
mourned ; but the world-the great,
cold, selfish world, including the magis-
trate, and the humbler police function-
ary-soon forgot everything respecting
the circumstance. That world had
something else to occupy itself withal;
and the dispensers of the law, busied
with new cases of crime, gave quietly
to oblivion that -which was past and
could not be remedied.
Yet Hartley had made a discovery
which startled himself as well as stag-
gered his philosophy. Up to the mo-
ment that Isabella had last entered his
chambers, he conceived the love he
once entertained for her had given place
to feelings of a precisely adverse na-
ture -that he hated, abhorred'her.
But his thoughts which, in defiance
of all his efforts, still reverted to the
image of her beauty--the never-ceasing
manner in which the tones of her voice,
low, tremulous; like mournf 1, music,
haunted his spin  is rest  ness; the
involuntary way in w ich her name
would frequently spring to his lips-
all convinced him that he had not, as,
he believed, -subdued a passion now
hopeless, and worse than insanity.
Solitude is the nurse of love. The
ethics of the schools, the frigid studies
of science and philosophy, fail to quench

its fire ; the lightnings of daring and
evil aspirations will not blast the stub-
born plant, nor will the commission of
crime, though it hardens, root its
tenacious fibres from the heart.
Hartley was a lonely man; his studies
were cold and gloomy ; his mind har-
bored daring and skeptical opinions:
and we have seen that he was no
stranger to criminal actions. Thus
situated, and his disposition moulded
of such elements, he was a man to love
and to hate, not as others who mix
freely with the world, but with a depth,
a strength, and an endurance, calcu-
lated to urge him to any 'kind of mis-
deed, and to steep his own soul in
wretchedness for a lifetime.
Whether Hartley paced up and down
in his chambers, his sinister eyes half
concealed by the drooping lids, and
fixed on the floor; whether he walked
the street abstracted, unobservig, un-
delighted with all that allures and
charms others; or whether he sat in
the Temple gardens beneath the trees,
the busy Thames -before him, and
children, with their light feet and
happy voices, gamboling around ; still
his mind brooded on one subject-the
envied position of his brother, blessed
with the woman he himself had loved.
And Hartley abandoned himself to
the promptings of the soul. He strug-
gled no longer. He clung to his pas-
sion ; he: fed upon it, as the Oriental
despot* is said to have banqueted upon
poisons. He wooed the image during
his waking dreams, and, in the wild
visions of sleep, his fancy, unchecked,
flew unto her side. He cursed her
beauty, yet still dwelt upon its witchery
with thoughts of fond delirium.
Yet what was Hartley's love ? Oh 1I
not the heaven-born unselfish flame
which seeks only the welfare and de-
light of the being adored. He wished
Isabella, now that she could not be his,
to experience no feeling but wretched-
ness.  He would lacerate, her heart
with every pang. He would drive kher
to despair, to madness, all saving death,
for death would defeat his purpose by
at once suspending her suffering, and
dissipating his dreams of solitary de-
light.
For how long a period would the
revenge he- had already taken satisfy
his soul? His life was monotonous,
* Mithridates.

and consequently time, having few long ago in the centre of the panels on
points to mark its progress, glided the right hand: The beams shot re-
swiftly away. His weeks, his months, 'verently and with a chastened softness
his years, were the history of each through the arched stone-mullioned
other repeated. To think, therefore, windows, lighting the picture-gallery,
of the deed he had done, and the pain so that old full-length portraits, in curled
he had inflicted on those whom he wish- wigs, with long straight swords and
ed to humiliate and crush, would afford lace ruffles, glowed again, and seemed
food for his evil genius to ruminate on animated with the life which had for-
during the space of years. Gold he saken the originals for three centuries.
lightly esteemed, scorning the 'world The coats of arms emblazoned in gold
and its "usages" too much to be a miser; over the principal doorways especially
so the money given to Pike was never attracted the bright messengers of the
grudged. That 'man was retained in sun, which showed to advantage their
his service, the villain's fidelity being quarterings and, supporters, to soothe
insured to his patron by the continuance the gazer with dreams of ancestral
of the annuity. In truth, Hartley renown.
knew he should have to employ the at-  But brightest, gayest, gladdest,
torney again in business probably more streamed the dancing rays of morning
difficult, as well as, more important, into the great oak drawing-room. The
than any affair yet undertaken.-    brown wainscoting, with its square
Meantime, like a. wasp humming panels traced with figures of heathen
around the forest deer when asleep, gods.and goddesses; the lofty ceiling,
the little man had recourse to divers divided into compartments, painted to
subtle means for disturbing the tran- correspond ; the heavy gilt cornices;
quillity  of Somerset.  Anonymous the polished oak doors-; the mantel-
letters, paragraphs in the papers, secret' piece of black Sienna marble, high,
scandal, aiming shafts at the honor of spacious, elaborately carved, and sur-
his wife-such were the, instruments mounted by busts of King James, Eliza-
and appliances Mr. Pike made use of. beth, and her royal father; the massy
These were but light exercises to keep, furniture of the room ; the ample dra-
as it were, his hand in practice-little series at the windows, green damask
skirmishes preparatory to a- greater fringed with gold bullion-all assumed
conflict. Pike's more important tri- a rich warm hue, the beams, that them=
ymphs were yet to come, and destiny, selves never grow old, so thoroughly
also, though he dreamed-not of that, brightening up and revivifying their
was weaving its web even for him.   faded honors.
Three individuals might have been
seen in that ancient drawing-room.
There sat Mrs. Somerset at her em-
CHAPTER IX.               broidery-frame.  Time had laid, his
hand lightly on her beauty, which was
OUR HEROINE.             of a description calculated still to in-
spire love in its ideal and spiritual, as
FROM what has just been stated, the well as its more mundane form.
reader will be prepared to pass over a  Had she forgotten her lost child?
certain interval of time.           Years had/ -healed the wound: more-
We must introduce him into Brook- over, the place of the lost one another
land Hall, the ancient Elizabethan supplied. Sorrow had long ceased to
mansion, the exterior of which we have weigh on her heart, and her days were
already described.                  days of peace and-happiness.
The sunbeams were streaming cheer- - Mr. Somerset was considerably older
fully through the windows in front than his wife, yet-their attachment was
of the house.    They warmed the mutually of the deepest and tenderest
pavement of the old entrance-hall, that nature.  He was now leaning in his
pavement being composed of slabs of chair, reading. His head had begun to
white and blfrck marble diamond-shap- exhibit, in telltale linos of silvery hair,
ed. The wide staircase wasno longer the quiet advance/of years. - His face,
gloomy, for the sunshine played on the though rather homely, was of that'pe-
richly-carved oakbalusters, and brought culiar description which cannot fail to
out the roses and fleurs-de-lis painted make an agreeable impression. The

28

CHAPTER VIII.

29

r't 7  I
{1:
'f'
-. __    ; 7  . r

)

r+a+~
.t

"-1
+  F


HESTER SOMERSET.

HESTER SOMERSET.       $1

Ji

9
Yi  ,

cheeks were healthy and florid ; the
eyes clear and open'; and his smile had
so much benevolence in it, was so full
of honest, joyous feeling, that its fas-
cination was irresistible.
Mr. Somerset, as he held his book in
his hand, at times glanced up from the
page. It was not to survey the park
without, the groups of old trees, or the
church-tower beyond: his eyes fell
with inexpressible pride and fondness
on- a slight figure near him: -it was
that of a girl about eleven years of age
-his daughter Hester.
She was sitting at the table bending
over a sheet of drawing-paper. A
bunch of flowers lay before her, and
she was endeavoring to emulate their
colors by the sweet mimicry of the
painter's art. Her chair being rather
elevated, she was compelled to stoop,
so that the bright waves of her long
auburn hair, falling forwards, half con-
cealed her features, and many a round
earl lay on the paper, like glittering
gold rings on a surface of snow. How-
ever beautiful in this position she
looked, the girl did not appear to like-
the intrusion of the hair thus shading
her face, for, ever and- anon, with her
little white hand, she impatiently flung
back the mass of ringlets, and in that
action her head was thrown backwards,
and the exquisite contour of every fea-
ture perfectly revealed.
The face of a child of eleven years
-ah I when the face of childhood is
handsome, there is nothing so lovely, so
fairy-like, so angelic in created nature.
It seems as if the shadow of man's fall
had not yet- reached those joyous sun-
-bright features. The light of Eden is
still undimmed in those innocent eyes,
and the withering influences of care,
of thought, and-sorrow-the curse pro-
nounced upon man-have not come to
steal one hue from those fresh peach-
like cheeks. Holy cherubimare painted
as children. Is it because these little
ones, their span of life being so short,
cannot have wandered far from their
original source-Deity ?  Or is it be-
cause their love, unmixed as yet with-
earthly passion, is the type of all purity
and holiness ?'
Hester, the light-hearted, the beauti-
ful fairy, free and gay as the butterfly
of spring ; merry as the summer bee ;
thou -pearl beneath the waters of life !
thou rosebud with thy delicate leaves
still folded up in their coy unblown

EARLY TRAITS-" HE WOULD BE A
SOLDIER."
LEAVING, our heroine, Hester, and -
her father in the oak drawing-room of
.Brookland Hall, we must quietly pro-
ceed to a spot about two miles distant.
There, in a small field, a lad, who
might be thirteen years of age, was

sweetness I  Wouhrf it were in our
power to paint thee as thou oughtest to
be painted, fair young child.! but thy
sweet features, scarcely developed, like
some star behind its silvery cloud,
must remain undescribed in their soft
haze. Little Hebe, with the pouting
cherry lip, with the full laugh of delight
ringingfrom the soul ; or with the tear
of infantine tenderness hanging on the
long lashes of thy deep blue eyes ; the
picture must be left to the imagination.
We cannot fix the magic hues of the
prismatic bow on earthly canvas ; we
cannot, therefore, hope to delineate the
ever-changing elements of such loveli-
ness, bright child, as thine.
The father hung over the chair of
his daughter, and watched the progress'
which she made in her painting. - The
pride he felt'in possessing for his child
a creature so purely beautiful as Hes-
ter was excusable, and- Mr. Somerset
spoke no word, but held his very breath
for the delight which he experienced.
Hester was so intent on her odcupa-
tion that, for a few minutes, she was
unconscious her father was near her..
A shadow, as he intercepted the light.
from the window, fell on the drawing-
paper ; then she became aware that he
stood behind her, and the young girl,
flinging aside her curls with both hands,
let her head fall back over the chair,
looking up into his face with a peal of
merry, silvery, musical laughter.
Somerset stooped and kissed' her
forehead. Happy moments overbrim-
ming with pleasure I reckless age of
the heart's gushing glee and trusting
fondness. The earth, with all its dark-
ness and misery, has still scenes and
transitory hours which  shine  like
glimpses of lost Paradise-those scenes
are scenes of home felicity and hal-
lowed love-those hours are the hours
of joyous bounding childhood.

sitting on a bank. He was attired in
a little blue smock-frock ; a black lea-
ther -cap, its only adornment being a
button in front, covered his head; his
stockings were ofcoarse worsted, saved
from the disfigurement of holes through
the compassion of sundry darns ; while
his heavy unpolished shoes were tied
with thongs, and full of bob-nails.
Nevertheless, the countenance of the
boy was remarkable, and-looking on it,
you entirely forgot the meanness of his
habiliments. There was a boldness in
the profile, and a pride, a resolution,
expressed in every glance he gave, to-
tally at variance with the usual cha-
racteristics of the peasant's child. The
forehead was high and large, the nose
aquiline, the chin beautifully rounded ;
the features altogether were singularly
marked, as well as prematurely deve-
loped; but the expression, which other-
wise had been hard and stern, was
relieved by the playful dimples of the
cheek, and the arch, penetrating, mer-
ry eye. His complexion was fair, but
the short crisp curls which escaped
from beneath his leathercap were black
and glossy as jet.
And what influence could the des-
tiny of this poor lad, with the hob-
nailed shoes, exert on the- fortunes of
tlje wealthy owner of Brookland Hall?
Men, short-sighted, too often ridicule
the notion of the obscure and little
rising over, and eclipsing, the already
illustrious or great. But genius never
stands still. Ambition breaks down
the strong walls of conventionalism;
and, w, long; as the world endures,
some will be incessantly struggling up-
wards, and climbing, by all .possible
and never-dreamt-of steps, above the
heads of their fellows.
Lewis Banks was the son of a snall
farmer, a poor but industrious man, a
tenant of Mr. Somerset. He little re-
sembled.other children of his age; the-
rustics, who knew nothing of character,
because the lad, had no relish for the,
toil in which their lives were passed,
considered him idle.  Some, seeing
him  moody, .absent, and thoughtful,
declared him to be mad; while all
agreed he was the most Junpromising
cub that ever tried the patience .of a
father. His mind had-taken a peculiar
turn from the time when he first heard
in the village alehouse a London news-
paper'read by a political blacksmith; de-
tailing the particulars of a great battle

-- -        .-..~--~-ago"--~-

30

fought on the continent ; from that day
he thought of little else but marches,
sieges, drums, banners, and all the
paraphernalia of glorious war.
It appears to be pretty generally
agreed, that what we usually denomi-
nate "genius," is innate, not acquired.
One is said to be bora with a genius for
oratory ; another for inditing verses;
a third- for painting; and a fourth
for the mechanical arts. So we'-must
conclude that our little peasant-boy
came into the world with a genius for
fighting, or, in other words, was de-
signed by nature to be a successful
destroyer of his species.
Lewis had been seat into his father's
field to weed and "bank" potatoes.
With lusty hand he plied his task for a
short-time; .then, as the humor seized
him, he turned aside, and commenced
very busily raising a mound of earth.
Childish and simple as the action was;
his whole soul seemed absorbed in it.
The mound was intended to represent a
fortification, such as he had seen in
pictures, and the old village veteran
with the wooden leg had described to
him. He raised ramparts of turf, and
a central tower by means of, a few
stones. He drew around it with his
hoe the "deep encircling moat," across
which a stick laid down served for a
bridge. Then erecting his hoe in the
centre, he attached to it his little red
neckerchief, which the breeze blew out
-and this was the enemy's standard.
Lewis was now sitting on the bank,
regarding with quiet complacency his
finished performance. His elbow rest-
ed on his knee, and his cheek was
leant on his hand. His countenance
was perfectly grave, and he seemed to
be intently thinking, for his lips moved
at intervals, and a smile, half expres-
sive of melancholy and half of fierce
pleasure, flitted across his intelligent
and beautiful face. Suddenly the boy
rose, as though he had formed a reso-
lution on which pended .a matter of
high, importance. ..He drew from his
pocket a piece of wood about six inches
long:; a hole had been drilled.in it, and
-the work of many an hour-it had
assumed under the plastic power of his
stick-knife the form of a cannon. The
same magazine, his pocket, furnished
forth, the ammunition, a halfpenny-
worth of powder, wrapped carefully in
a morsel of brown paper.
The process of loading commenced;

CHAPTER X.


K

0

1
S      '
w 1.ti.
k  :+  5.
    .
,"5

HESTER SOMERSET.

HESTER SOMERSET.

11
'  p

the cannon-shot, a marble, was duly
lodged in the throat of the "engine of
death," At this moment, on the far-
ther side of the hedge, a man might
have been observed cautiously stealing
along : his back was bent low ; an omi-
nous frown was on his face, and a long
carter's whip in his hand.
Wholly occupied by his task, Lewis
steadied his cannon between two stones,
and, falling on his knees in the dirt,
pointed it with the gravity of a veteran
artilleryman at the color flying over
his fortress. With a flint and bit of
iron (the lucifer-match was then among
the secrets and mysteries of earth), he
struck a spark above the touch-hole.
The wooden cannon exploded with a
report which sounded sweeter than the
burst of a hundred musical instru-
ments, in the ears of the embryo sol-
dier. The marble had struck the color-
staff-it fell, and the fine eyes of Lewis
glittered with phasure ; while giving
vent to the ardor of his bosom, he ut-
tered a faint applauding shout.
"1Holloa! you rascal I" cried a gruff
voice, and the man, before alluded to,
sprang over the hedge, and the next
moment, with his whip raised in the
air, stood before the affrighted stripling.
His great brawny hand trembled with
passion, and his red cheeks were puf-
fed out with rage.
"I've found thee again, have I?" ex-
claimed the farmer-; "thou young imp
of idleness !-thou torment of thy fa-
ther!-thou good-for-nothing disgrace
to an honest family !--thou born to
the gallows!  But I'll cure thee, I
warrant-I'll whip the Evil One out
of thee."         ,
Lewis, while this paternal address
was being delivered, had retreated a
few paces, but still,.as he went slowly
backwards, the incensed father fol-
lowed. The lad uttered not a word in
self-defence, but kept his dark express-
ive eyes. fixed on that bloated- peony
face.
"And how much hast thou done of
the work I set thee, sirrah ?" continued
the peasant, shaking his_ whip in a
more threatening manner.
"1What, not one row of 'tatoes bank-
ed, nor a dozen weeds pulled up ? and
you've been here four mortal hours t-
Now, you needn't try to run off, for I'm
going to flog thee."
"I don't mean to r'n off," said the
boy, doggedly, his fear, it was evident,

having considerably subsided. "Fa-
ther," he added, firmly, "I advise you
not to touch me with that whip."
"And why not ?" said the farmer.
" Zooks ! my lad, I suppose you think
I'm afraid of thee-a man afraid of a
child-that's a good joke, ha !" and the
honest ploughman's huge sides shook
with laughter.
Banks, however, was incapable of
comprehending his own sensations,
and as Lewis's bright eye was still
riveted on his bluff face, he did fear the
child he affected to scorn. Mind, even
ii such a frail tenement, exerted its
never-failing influence on mere brute
matter ; the whip gradually lowered,
and was less tightly grasped, ye he
bull-dog in the man was not su -
dued.
"And what's here ?" cried the far.
mer, approaching the little fortification,
and with his great shoes kicking down
the turf battlements. " Odso ! this -is
the way you spend your tint, is it?
The boy's cracked, quite mad, that's
certain.  Here's  your  gun, too."
(Lewis, in his hurry, had left his can-
non on the ground, but he now made
a plunge to secure what he valued so
highly.) "No, I'm too quick for thee,
this time, young rascal!" said the
farmer.-
Lewis had, indeed, missed it, and the
luckless lad beheld his treasure-the
idol thing-on the ,*workmanship of
which he hied expended so much labor,-
in the grasp of his irritated parent.
The farmer looked at it, shook his head
in philosophic sorrow, and then delibe-
rately broke it across his knee!
Lewis, for the first time, was visibly
affected. He stamped his little foot in-
unavailing rage ; and presently, as the
full amount of his loss seemed to im-
press itself on his mind, his eyes filled
with tears. Then the child spoke out
boldly, resolutely, but -he made no
allusion to his lost cannon.
"Father, you can. do nothing with
me. I tell, you again, I can't spend
my time working in the fields. Ibe-
lieve I was born for something better
and higher. You may laugh at me, if
you please; but I-cannot weed, I can-
not -dig, I cannot drive the horses.
There is something in me, I don't know
what it is, that makes me discontented
with those things, and weary of them;
they lead to nothing; you go on from
year to year, and leave off just where

you began. You work, you eat, an
then, father, you die."
"I tell you, boy, you're demented
stark mad!" cried the honest farmer
staring bewildered on his son, with hi
mouth open.
"Perhaps I am   mad. Give me
half year's schooling ; let me learn t
read and write, and I will trouble yoi
no more. You shall then have one les
to provide for."
" Schooling? learn to read? wha
next? Are you better than your owi
father, I should .like to know? andI
can't read. Learning only makes th
poor idle and rebellious. There's mor
evil than good in it. Thank God! .
can dig, plough, and cut down a fielc
of hay without the help of any stupid
stuff they .teach in schools. So, lool
you, my man, I sha'n't do you tha
great wrong by putting you to school,
Besides, I can't afford it."
The boy's countenance assumed an
expression of deep dejection, and he
muttered to himself: " Can't afford it-
true, true, he can't afford it." Then
he seized his hoe, and looking at the
farmer, said, "Father, if you will let
me, Ill work now."
* "But for how long? When I turn
my back, I suppose you'll be making
another cannon. Ah! I can't trust
thee, idle one! But there, PIl not flog
thee this time, so work away, my lad ;
bank the'tatoes, and root up the weeds.
I hope, by .teaching and patience, to
make thee a sensible, industrious youth,
after all." 
CHAPTER XI.
A BOLD DETERMINATION--THE PRETTY
PLEADER.
THE mind of the very young has
alwa1y"een considered a curious and
an in resting study; but the problem
has ever been satisfactorily solved
why one person, at an early age, should
conceive an insatiate, thirst for know-
ledge, or the acquisition of a certain
science, while another, placed in pre-
cisely similar circumstances, appears
to be dead to the higher impulses of
mind, possessing neither curiosity nor
ambition of anykind. The first awakes,-
as it were, at a .slight touch, from the
torpor of mere animal existence; the

32

d last slumbers on through life, in spite,
too, of every spur that may be applied
, to rouse him from his lethargy.
The mind of our little peasant had
s cast off this sleep so fatal to the myri-
ads of his class, and had sprung into
a a consciousness of its powers. He
o felt a longing for something unobtained
u -a burning curiosity to look behind
s the veil which ignorance hangs before
the eyes of the spirit. At the same
t time, he had sufficient knowledge
n already (a rather rare acquisition, be it
I said) to be convinced that he knew
e nothing. Still the boy prayed his
e father to place him under the care of
I the village pedagogue.   The same
answer was returned on all occasions--
I the farmer could not, or would not,
"afford it."  The spirit of Lewis was
t irritated, but not subdued, and in order
to enjoy the *advantages which the
schoolmaster's reputed learning held
out, he had recourse to a plan, the
boldness of which,- when it became
known, astounded his father, and filled
his rustic companions with amaze.
One fine day, having put on a clean
smock-frock, and brought, by dint of
hard scrubbing, to something like a
polish his bob-nailed shoes, the adven-
tigrous youth set out for no less a
locality than Brookland Hall. Yes,-he
intended to, pay a visit, on his own
account, to the 'squire of the parish.
When he drew near the fine old
building, with its arched, traceried
windows, clock-tower, and stately por-
tico, he thought that the man who
possessed such a dwelling had no occa-
sion to envy a king, and must, as a
natural consequence, be happy. Long-
ings, ambitions-mixed, however, with
no dishonest feelings-stirred within
him; fancy leaped in the gulf of years,
and some wandering demon or fairy
seemed to whisper in-his ear, "Brook-.
land Hall shall-one day be thine!"
Then his large eyes sparkled, and his
little heart palpitated beneath his
coarse check shirt.
Nothing  abashed, Lewis walked
around one of. the wings of the build-
ing, and entered the gravelled space
in frqnt.- He well knew that if he
applied to the servants. at the back of
the mansion they would drive -him
away, and this would have annihilated
his hopes, as regarded his contem-
plated interview with Mr. Somerset.
Accordingly, without hesitation, the

33

ilii ;#4 S
{l a l 4 3
I
is   t i I
{r #t I
tt
f t   { i
{   3 ,
c{
t
i i
l
I   , ss  !
ifi
I I
(? I
Ii,
( 1
i .

.4

*                                1 :. i. w .t                                            o


HESTER SOMERSET.~'r

HESTER SOMERSET.

rc
(,,'! ,

lad approached the hall-door; his iron- the summit of the forehead, where the
shod shoes sounded on the marble steps curls were parted.
of the Tuscan portico, his coarse frock  The first thing which appeared to
brushed the elegant pillars, and the attract the sparkling eyes of Lewis,
next instant-no, he did not raise the even before the presence of the great
knocker, but he gave a smart pull at man, was the display of books on their
tie bell. A porter opened the door- shelves around the room. Such a col-
a tall man, with large rosy cheeks, and lection he had not only never beheld
a powdered head. He looked down on before, but had no idea that so great a
the urchin who had thus dared to ring quantity could exist. He thought, in
at the front of the house with surprise his simplicity, that Mr. Somerset's li-
too great to admit of his- speaking. brary must contain all the learning in
His brows were elevated, his eyes all the world, and he who possessed
stared, and his cheeks were inflated,  ability, as well as time, to read the
" Please, sir," began Lewis, pulling books through, must needs be the most
off his cap, "is his honor at home ?"  enviable and blessed among men.
Then the porter gained the power of  Mr. Somerset leant back in his large
speech and action, surprise giving easy chair, and as he regarded the lad
place to indignation,              before him, a smile diffused itself over
"You dirty little scoundrel I what his calm benevolent face., Little, how-
do you want here ? His honor, indeed! ever, did he divine the nature of the
So, you are come to call upon the thoughts occupying the mind of the
'squire, I supposedly" added. the man, peasant boy, who was still gazing in a
with an ironical laugh.            sort of dreamy trance on the book-
"Yes, I want to see him."        shelves.
" Impertinence, too, as well as auda-  "Well, my lad, and what do you
city. If you are not gone this moment, want of me ?" asked Mr. Somerset.
my cane shall sound about your ears.  Lewis started, and turned his eyes
Off! to the back of the house. If you towards the questioner ; they drooped
want broken victuals, ask of the scullery for a moment, and he blushed and
maid."'                            hesitated. The  natural instinct of
Lewis in his turn felt the blood rush bashfulness which the poor feel in the
to his forehead. He was about to make presence of the rich was not entirely
a reply, which. possibly might not have conquered ; yet in a few seconds he
improved matters, when Mr. Somerset, lifted his curly head, and spoke in a
who had just advanced to the- window  low, but unwavering voice-
of his -library, caught a glimpse of - "Knowing that your honor is not
the boy's figure beneath the portico. proud, and that you believe poor people
Seeing some dispute going forwards, have souls as well as the rich, I have
he rang his bell, and, being informed taken courage to come to the hall."
that the lad inquired for him, with his  " That's sensibly spoken of you, my
characteristic good nature he ordered little man. I am happy your father
the applicant to be instantly admit- has told you that I am the peasant's
ted.                               friend."
Lewis Banks stood in the library,  " I beg your honor's pardon ; father
his cap in his hand, but his head did never told me that. I judge myself
not hang down, nor was the peasant's from your honor's acts in the parish."
awkward confusion expressed in his   Mr. Somerset stared: was it a grown
face ; yet the assurance and firmness man who made such a remark, -or a
he manifested were those of an honest, mere child as he appeared to be of'thir-
independent heart-not the low impu- teen years ?,
dence of the knave. His features,    "Boy, what is your name?"
slightly flushed, were eminently beau-  "Lewis Banks."
tiful, and the formation of the throat  "Ha ! the son of honest Banks, who
was the better displayed, inasmuch as rents that bit of ground adjoining the
he wore no cravat or ribbon around his Broadway farm. Well, what can I do
neck. His little blue shirt was just for you ? what are you in want of?"
turned over his rustic smock, and, his  "iMy chief want, your honor, is to
jetty hair, beginning at the nape of the be enlightened. I'n in ignorance and
neck, curled naturally all around his total darkness. I can't read, write, or
cheeks and temples, retreating only on cipher. I'm a very clod of the ground,

but I don't wish to remain so. The
parson has not set up any Sunday-
school, and father says he's too poor to
put me to Mr. Sharp's in the village.
What I would ask is-" the boy drew
a long breath, and continued, "I'll
.speak it out at once. Will your honor
treat me with a half year's schooling?"
" Upon my word, Master Lewis, you
are a bold beggar," said Mr. Somerset,
endeavoring to look grave.
There was a minute's pause, during'
which brief interval a slight rustle
was heard in the far corner of the
library, where stood a high painted
screen. A table'appeared to be pushed
away, and a book dropped on the floor:
then a fair young face was seen timid-
ly peering forth, a mass of golden ring-
lets half hiding her cheeks and white
-arching neck. Presently the whole
figure emerged; the girl, we scarcely
need add, was Mr. Somerset's daugh-
ter.
Light as a fairy, -walking over
flowers, little IIester bounded up to
her father's chair.
Strange was the effect produced on
Lewis by that beautiful apparition.
His eyes were fixed on her, but fixed
in astonishment and admiration, rather
than in rudeness or familiarity.
" Father," said Hester in her soft
silvery voice, " do not refuse him. Let
him go to the village school."
"Heyday, pretty pleader, and why?
What is the lad to you ?"
" Nothing," said Hester, hanging
her head, her little cherry lip pouting,
"but he's the boy who the people say
is a 'genius.' "
" A genius ! ha, ha !" laughed Mr.
Somerset good-humoredly.-
"-He's always building castles, and
making cannons and firing them ; no
doubt he wishes to be able to read about
battles and sea-fights,,so don't refuse'
him what he asks ; pay for his school-
ing at Mr. Sharp's."
Hester, as she finished her petition,
ventured to glance at Lewis ; her look-
was timid and given sidelong ; and as
.she encountered his great brilliant
eyes, with the beautiful instinct of her
sex felt and obeyed even at that early
age, she hastily turned away her head,I
her young cheek flushing, and the lily1
even of her forehead converted to a
rose. The next moment she glided
softly across the room, and again dis-
appeared behind the screen.

84

a

35

V'

Lewis spoke no more, but looked on
the carpet, at the cap in his hand, then
at the screen: $nally he cast an in-
quiring glance at the 'squire.
Mr. Somerset was not acute or sus-
picious enough to observe anything
extraordinary in the manner of the
children ; nor was he sufficiently phi-
losophical to speculate on character, 'or
consider how secret and subtile is the
magnetic chain which extends from
heart to heart,; how early in life its
links can be forged; and how small
are the incidents which sometimes
point man's destiny, and color the
events of after years.
"My lad," said Mr. Somerset, as he
drew a sheet of paper towards him and
began to scribble upon it, "you are a
smart fellow, and your father, though
poor, is industrious and honest ; per-
haps I shall lower his rent next half
year."  The letter was finished and
folded.. "Here, take this," he added,
" to the village schoolmaster, and he
will give you a twelvemonth's tuition
on my account."
Lewis received the note, and stan;-
mered forth his thanks, his hand trem-
bling with delight, and his eyes filled
with tears of gratitude.
CHAPTER XII.
FIRST LOVE.
IT was only six o'clock in the morn-
ing, yet the July sun, sworn against
sluggard habits, had been up for some
two hours. No human being, how-
ever, was yet seen in the wide-extended
park, saving one; a stripling was lean-
ing against a tree, just within the iron
palings on the northern boundary.
Behind him swept; the deep ditch in
which Pike had concealed himself when
he committed the, outrage on the in-
fant child of Mr. Somerset.   Lewis
Banks, for he it was, had heard of the
tale, but he thought nothing of it now.
The peasant-boy was smitten by love
of reading, a few months with the
village schoolmaster having enabled
him to acquire that accomplishment;
but his eyes were not fited on his book
now. The "Wars of -Marlborough,"
with'one covergone,and deplorablydog-
eared, peeped from his pocket, while
an epitome translation of Vauban,on

-n7

_                   _                _ .
.. _ -   ,
-      - ,-            - '                y-i c    t
.-            -           .i ,       _


86         HESTER SOMERS'ET.''r

HESTER SOMERSET.

"Fortification" (we are puzzled to con- may be love, it is generally imagined, in
ceive where or how he had succeeded the bosoms of the very young. But
in obtaining the book), lay unhonored probably we err in assigning so little
and unstudied in the crown of his cap. depth or endurance to early impres-
Some great subject engrossed his sions : the metal is cast into the mould;
thoughts, or some sorrow lay on his the stamp is given: true, those letters
heart, for, were not this the ease, the of the soul are frequently erased, but
young enthusiastic student would never sometimes they remain deep and legible
have permitted one leisure moment to for a lifetime.
slip without dedicating it to improve-  Lewis had too much iron p in his
ment. He was as avaricious of his time young nature, and was too full of all
as Pliny the Elder, who studied stand- the active principles of the mind, to
ing and walking, wrote in his chariot, yield to  espondency.  His frame
and to whom a slave read even during might be a child's, but his heart was
the process of "rubbing and wiping," that of a man. He dashed away his
after he had taken the bath.        tears: and assurance, energy, hope,
Lewis began to walk to and fro with a again beamed in his face.
quick step. He flung back, with an    " I will venture," he said to himself ;
impatient air, the collar of the little " I will see her ; I will tell her all I
round jacket which he had assumed in feel, and all 'I think. If in her pride
lieu of the smock-frock ; frowning and she rejects and spurns me, why then I
smiling by turns, and muttering to shall the better be able to give up the-
himself, he was evidently much dis- pleasant thoughts I now enjoy, forget
turbed.                             her dear sweet face, and go forth seek-
"Why    should I tremble? Why ing my fortunes in the wide world."
should I hesitate ?"  he whispered.    Ascertaining  that his treasures,
"But father says there's a great gulf "Marlborough's Wars," lay safely in
between the high and the low, the his pocket, and Vauban on " Fortifi-
rich and the poor ; no doubt there is ; cation," kept its due place in the crown
and I feel I can't leap across it. What of his cap, Lewis Banks walked rapidly
then? I must by toil and perseverance by the park-palings, and without hesi-
raise myself in the world. I must keep tation approached the garden of the
running up the hill, no matter how house. A low wall fenced it on the
hard the work may be. I must lay side where he stood, so as partly to
siege to the strong town of Fortune- screen him from the observation of any
that's a good figure-and carry the person who might be early abroad.
place if it cost twenty years' bombard- This was not the first time be had
ment. But woe's me !"-- the smile crept there with a hope of espying
vanished from the boy's countenance, Hester. He had ascertained that nearly
and was succeeded by a look of deep every morning, at an early hour, she
dejection-"before that happy time was in the habit of visiting the garden:,
comes, what will be her lot? . She will either to pluck flowers, or feed the
love adother--be the wife, perhaps, of silverfish in the fountainwhich bubbled
another ; and then all my toil, and up near the grotto of shells; but not
even my success, will be in vain !"  yet had he dared'to enter the place, or
He stopped and covered his face with in any way accost her. The time was
his hands; his breastheaved with sobs, now come. His impatient spirit could
and the tears forced their way through maintain its reserve no longer ; and he
his fingers. 'Ihe heart'of the strong resolved on the bold expedient of in-
boy was wholly subdued.             trudingshimself into her haunts.'
Love in one so young!I-have we       Lewis cautiously peered over the
faith in it ? Must we believe it a mere wall to ascertain that the gardener was
idea of the brain, and not a sentiment not in the way. He then hurried to a
of the heart ?-a light, morning cloud, small iron gate, and thrusting it open,
that will melt away ,as the day ad- found himself in a shady laurelled walk.
vances ?-a bubble that will burst al- Pursuing its serpentine course, he
most as soon as its glittering globe rises reached the open garden where the
from the inflater's tube ?-a butterfly, grass-plots, the statues, the vases, and
the gaudy hues of whose wings all dis- flowers were all dripping with dew,
appear at the first touch of the rude and bathed in the sweet morning light.
hand of misfortune or change ? Such flhe intruder looked around, trembling

lest any eye   should observe him.
The splash of the fountain sounding
in his ear, he was guided by its mur-
murs, and darting behind a trellis-work
thickly covered with flowering shrubs,
reached the entrance of the grotto. A
moment more, and Lewis was safe
within the sparry labyrinth. In addi-
tion to the reflection of the sunbeams
at the entrance, light was admitted
through a large crystal in the roof.
In this place Hester spent much of her
time, and everything arounfti announc-
ed her industry and her taste. Lewis
seated himself behind a pedestal,
which was surmounted by the statue
of a nymph, and resolved to wait there
until the girl might pay her accustomed
visit.
Meantime, his heart was a prey to
misgivings, as well as secret apprehen-
sions of detection.- Then the antici-
pated meeting with Hester filled his
bosom with painful, yet ecstatic flutter-
.ings.  Thus thinking, listening, and
half trembling, did he pass the time ;
but now heavy steps were heard on the
gravelled walk without, and a man, with
a hoarse voice, seemed to be keeping
up a running dialogue with himself.
"Who's been trampling on my beds?
That's not Miss Hester's foot,I'llswear.
Ha ! it's that young groom; if he comes
into my garden again, I'll chop off his
toes with the spade. But where's the
spade? where is she ? I think I put her
into the grotto last night."
Lewis started up in alarm. Should
he at once rush out and effect his es-
cape, or should he stand and boldly de-
fend himself? He was in a stooping
attitude, apparently in the  act of
springing, yet he did not move ; the
heavy steps were approaching, and
still the gardener talked of his spade
within the grotto, when a silvery voice
was heard, not far distant, calling him
by name. The man instantly trudged
away, and Lewis, relieved from his
fears, was again able to breathe.
She was, then, in the garden, among
the flowers-the sweetest, the freshest
flower of them all-the little adored
one--the light-footed fairy. Lewis felt
a dizziness come upon him, and he held
by the pedestal for support. His heart
beat so wildly that his breast seemed
too small to contain it. The gardener
did not return; probably he had found
his spade: but instead of him-was it
the light caroling of a bird hovering

enamored over the flowers, and winging
nearer and still nearer to the grotto?
Yet those notes, joyously musicals and
aerial as they might be, were also
human. It was the happy song from
the sweet throat of gay-hearted child-
hood-the spontaneous gushing forth
in melody of bright and pure thoughts.
Hester stopped before. the fountain
at the entrance, and the boy from his
hiding-place could distinctly see her.
She began to throw crumbs of bread
into the water, for the silver-fish to
nibble at. The attitude, as she bent
forward, was well calculated to display
the grace of her sylphlike figure. Her
dress, too, became her well, although
somewhat fantastic. A little straw hat
was perched upon her sunny curls ; a
scarf of blue silk was passed carelessly
over her neck, being tied in a knot be-
hind; beneath this her snowy muslin
frock spread to unusual dimensions,
but, at the same time, it was very short,
so that her beautiful little legs, cased
in open-work thread stockings, were
seen almost to the knee. Blue morocco
slippers completed, so to speak, her
picturesque attire.
The eyes of the peasant boy were
riveted on the fair form at the fountain.
His fears and apprehensions had de-
parted ; admiration and eagerness only
possessed his heart. -He longed fqr
her to approach. Every second he was
about to quit his retreat, but some-
thing held him back. Would she again
fly, and deprive him of the opportunity
of,speaking?
Again Hester poured forth her notes
-clear, melodious, glad: and, as the
breeze wafted them inwards, - they
seemed to fill the grotto. A little bird,
also, in a wire cage, behind where
Lewis stood, now warbled an answer
in its low, soft trill. Then Hester, in
childish sport, knelt on the brim  of
the fountain, and, baring her snowy,
rounded arm to; the shoulder, plunged
it into the water, vainly endeavoring
to catch ongof her favorite fish. She
sprang up, shook the water-beads from
her satiny skin, and. laughed a peal of
ringing laughter. But now   moving
back her straggling ringlets, she ap-
peared to recollect some unperformed.
task, and exclaimed,
Ha I I hear him. Must bring the
bird out into the sun; he wants his
breakfast."
Her words evidenty hallusionto

37

f

9
d
1    3
F    k
I
1
t
4
f
(
S
{
r
6

-Adman

STtm ~S'R131S94 3

: ::  'q:
',yr_ .


0

K

HESTER SOMERSET.

HESTER SOMERSET.

the bird in the cage near Lewis; and
Hester had no sooner uttered them
than she glided into the grotto.
CHAPTER XIII.
LOVES'S FIRST LESSON.
THERE was a start, a slight shriek ;
for the first feelings of Hester, as she
perceived the intruder, were alarm and
astonishment. Her gleesome course
suddenly checked, she moved back-
wards on tiptoe, yet kept her eyes fixed
on Lewis in fearful curiosity. The lat-
ter now sprang towards her."
" Stay one instant. Fear nothing.
Do you not remember me ?"
His bright eyes, his maanly little
figure, his black, curly head, and, more
than all, the penetrating and strikingly
intellectual. expression of his face,
could not be forgotten by Hester; and,
looking on him, she felt reassured, and
her alarm subsided.
"Yes, yes, I remember you. But
what do you want ? Why are you
here ?"
"I have long wished to thank you
for your kindness, when you prevailed
on Mr. Somerset to place me in the
school, but I have had no opportunity.
I am driven to this. Forgive me, then,
and let me thank you now."
Hester was. at a loss to account for
there eagerness and the agitation of
Lewis ; yet nature's book is early
opened, -and some of its- plainer pas-
sages are easily read. True, she under-
stood not' his feelings, nor. her own;
and yet a glimmering of the sense at-
tached to the word "love" broke on
her young mind   -
" must go. You have now thanked
me ; that is enough."
" Not yet !" exclaimed Lewis, who,
with his grave precocious intellect, saw
deeper, into things than the other.
"You' must first decide my fate."
" I do not know what you mean,"
said Hester, opening her sunny eyes.
" And even if you did, perhaps you
would only laugh at -me, and spurn
from you the ploughman's son. Your
family is high," he continued, de-
jectedly ; " mine is low.  You are
wealthy, and I am poor. Forone like
yourself to talk to me at all is a stoop.
ing-a kind of condescension.s Yes,"

added Lewis, looking steadfastly at
her, "no doubt you despise me."
Despise such a countenance-such
cleverness. It was impossible. Child-
hood but slowly learns the science of
veiling the sentiments, and the lip
promptly utters what the heart sug-
gests.
" No, no I" cried Hester, eagerly ; " I
admire you-not despise."
These words called up light in the
countenance of Lewis, and he felt en-
couraged-eperhaps emboldened. ' But
were we to pursue the scene further,
we might incur the charge of tedious-
ness. A dialogue between two chil-
dren must needs be made up of
littlenesses ; and their petty remarks,
however' interesting to themselves, the
chronicler cannot presume would be
such to the general reader. Before
Hester returned -to the house, Lewis
had convinced her that their minds
were near akin, though their lots in
life might be wide apart. He spoke,
of advancing himself in the world,,and
of one day probably occupying a posi-
tion- very different from that in which
heinow stood. She shook her head at
the bright dreams of his' fancy, but a
strange feeling already possessed her
in favor of the peasant boy..- The only
thing which caused her pain and- un-
easiness was that their present meet-
ing, as well as any other which might
follow, Lewis wished to be kept a pro-
found secret from Mr. Somerset.
"Good-by !" said Hester, as she
went fluttering'out of their " trysting-
place." " I will call off the gardener,
and do you return by the same way as
you entered."
Has nature been overstepped and
probability outraged in the incidents
narrated? ' Ponder on the early deve-
lopment of intellect in some children,
and we think,,reader, thou wilt answer,
No. Yet the conduct of these children
may stand in need of some excuse or
defence. As.for -the peasant's son, his
character is suaiciently apparent, the
chief elements-of which were boldness,
a thirst of knowledge, and a most rest-
less ambition. Our plea for Hester--
the unthinking; guileless child of the
flowers andsunny fields-must be her
utter simplicity, and her entire igno-
rance of the world. Do not condemn,
do not even judge, until. more of her
history be unfolded; for'the sunshine
must be succeeded by the cloud, the

sweet draught of rural felicity must be
exchanged for the bitter cup of trial, in
the wide and unsympathizing world.
Again and again, before the sun had
despoiled the grass and the trees of
their diamonds, did Lewis find his way
into the garden. Stronger and stronger
became the links which bound the heart
of the fair girl to the bold and beau-
tiful scion of poverty. Deeper and
deeper grew her feelings, until her
young, wreathing smiles were changed
into tremors and blushes, and often,
when alone, into tears, But stolen
bliss, "the sweeter for the theft," is
commonly short-lived. The paradise
of our little lovers was not fated to con-
tinue long, and their precocious passion
was compelled to resolve itself into a
memory.
"What do all this mean ?" said the
sturdy gardener one day to himself,
look ing suspiciously on the gravelled
walks. " I find strange steps every
morning which wer'n't here over night.
There's something wrong, that's cer-
tain. I'll watch."
And watch the man did, concealing
himself behind certain trees in the
neighborhood, when Hester and Lewis
believed him  out of they way. The
{      consequence was, that. the gardener
made, a full discovery of the identity of
the bold intruder,.as well as the pur-
2      pose for which he visited the place.'
One morning, just after Hester had
taken her tremulous "adieu," and left
Lewisto effect his way out in- the usual
lianner,,the, gaunt, hard-faced Scotch-
.man (for the gardener was a native of
the land of cakes) might have been
seen creeping cautiously around from
the back of the grotto. A malicious
smile distorted hisfeatures, and he not
only felt a pleasure in the anticipated
punishment of the audacious ":genius,"
or, in his opinion, the plague. of the
village, but expectedfor the discovery
he: had made to receive high praise
from his master, 1r. Somerset.,
Lewis was walking quietly forth, his
.head full of dreams and his heart of
sweet emotions,.when he suddenly felt
as iron grasp upon his shoulder.
.,        "Holloal I've caught thee at last,
have I? thouyoung vagrant!l thou imp
of the Evil One 1"-
Lewis beheld his.enemy, and: com-
prehended instantly the disastrous con-
sequences that would attend his cap-.

ture. His first actwas aviolent struggle
to disengage himself. He thrust his
head into the gardener's chest, and
twined himself around his body.
" Be still, rascalI" growled the man,
" or I shall shake the life out of thee."
The gardener for an instant lost his
balance, and staggered backwards ; but
he held in his gripe the boy's jacket,
while his left hand was around Lewis's
throat. Still the lad tugged at the
huge legs, winding about them like a
small constrictor. The man, reeled
again, caught hold of a tree to save
himself from falling -- the slender
branch broke off in his hand, and he
fell heavily on the ground. Could
Lewis have freed himself now, his swift
foot might have saved him. No; the
iron hand was still around his neck.
He could not move. He-was choking.
The Scotchman swore, raised himself
on his elbow, sprang again upon his
feet, and holding Lewis at arm's length,
was now certain of his prey.
" Come along, you young viper i you
hang-dog! you gallows-bird! we'll cure
thee of these cunning tricks. We'll
see what the 'squire will say to thee,
so we will. This comes of thy learning,
and thy playing with gunpowder, do
it ? trespassing on gentlemen's private
grounds, and, worse than=all, a-trying
to deceive a poor innocent child, and
to bring disgrace upon a noble family.
A public whipping and the stocks
would be too good. for thee. Thou'tIt
at least be put into prison for a year,
and worked at the treadmill."
.All the while that the brawny tar-
dener was. delivering this very pleasant.
and consoling speech, hecontinued to
drag Lewis. onward. Resistance was
vain. - The muscles- of fourteen had
little chance in fair contest with the
muscles of forty. The boy yielded
passively, but with, feelings of stifled
indignation and burning-shame. The
Scotchman,:with his prisoner, reached
the flight of steps leading to-the terrace.
One last, one desperate effort more on
the part of Lewis--it proved.unavailing:
Ie was hurried forwards, and now they
were within a}few yards of the portico
of the mansion.
Mr. Somerset had just-risen, and was
in his-library. - His quick eye espied
the scene, and he immediately came
out of the house. His perplexity and
surprise were great as-.he beheld the
excited aspect of the gardener,,wha

88

i

89

'     "        "~  _rA -A:L-'  V _!' - _       . ".          y  -          :mil                  -        t
_             -4                         ''  w:u   p " +14.ryrwkt..    X:wh a' I; w "V

_                               _                                 d
. .
A ilri a.ls,] Sl                          rasea


(N

HESTER SOMERSET.

HESTER SOMERSET.

trembled and foamed with rage, and
recognized in the little prisoner, whose
round blue jacket was torn into shreds,
the lad he had placed at school, the
promising, son of his honest tenant,
Caleb Banks. The gardener com-
menced stammering something not at
all calculated to enlighten Mr. Somer-
set's mind;.at the same time, 'he shook
the lad, his huge hand being still
placed between the fragment of jacket
and shirt, and the boy's neck.
"Man, you need not hold me in this
manner," said Lewis, feeling acutely
the : disgrace of his situation ; "the
'squire is here. I have no thought of
escaping now.".
His head was erect; his eyes flashed,
in spite of two large tears of shame
and anger which trembled on their
lashes. 'The expression of his face,
and his whole manner, were not those
of a culprit, but rather of a hero.
"What has the boy been doing,
Allen ?" asked Mr.- Somerset, quietly.
"Doing, your -honor? he is the
vilest, wickedest reprobate in the whole
country-he is."
"Iam sorry to hear it. But what
proof have you of this ?"
"Every proof, your honor.    For
one whole mortal month, every morn-
ing, he's been entering my-your
garden. I suspected the thing long
ago, but only found it out for certain
yesterday. So I've taken good care to
seize him to-day, and bring him before
your honor."
"But what has been his motive,
Allen? What has the lad been doing
in the garden ?-stealing flowers ?"
The curl of scorn on the lip of Lewis
was a fine contrast to the .wide grin on
the bluff features of the gardener. The
latter, however, was confused. Though
coarse enough, he had still some sense
of regard for his master's family pride,
and for a father's feelings.
"Excuse- me, your honor, but I
don't know exactly how to go on.
He's an awful daring character is this
boy, and I think, maybe, was born on
purpose to swing on the gallows. The
truth is, your honor, through some vile
and wicked means, he's been a-trying
to gain-I don't say more than a-trying
-but, you see, Miss Hester
Mr. Somerset slightly started, and
his brow  grew dark.  He perfectly
understood now the gardener's hints.
At this inoment Rester ran out upon

the terrace. Sie&amp; had just caught a
glimpse of Lewis from one of the upper
windows, and, seeing him in the clutch-
es of the dreaded gardener, was at
no loss to divine the truth. Another
person, too, entered upon the scene ; it
was the tall footman, who, suspecting
his presence might be needed, came
forward with a stick in his hand. Mr.
Somerset, anxious to avoid an exposure
before his domestics, was about to order
the gardener to lead his prisoner into
the house ; but the precaution was too
late. Hester, with a cry of terror, ran
up to her father, and clung to his arm.
" Do not punish him! do not injure
him ! It is not his fault, but all my
own.   He respects and loves you,
father, and is grateful to you. , He
will obey you in everything. Only
give him his liberty; let him go."
- These words were mtetered in such a
piteous .accent, and followed by such
sobs and such torrents of tears, that
the indulgent father found 'hi angry
feelings, soften, and was disposed to
view the question in the mildest light.
The fondness contracted by the two
children thrown accidentally together
was in no way surprising. True, the
intimacy-though a subject now to be
treated, he'thought, lightly-might, if
continued, lead to very serious results.
It was, therefore, incumbent on him at
once to terminate it.
" Boy," said Mr. Somerset, gravely,
but with mildness, "your conduct in
entering my grounds so frequently and
in so secret a manner is highly to be
blamed, but not unpardonable. Allen,
you have done your, duty in making
him your prisoner and bringing him to
me, but now you will set him at liber-
ty.".,
The Scotchman looked black, being
bitterly disappointed 'in-regard to the
expected:punishment of the stocks; .
whipping, or imprisonment which he
had prophesied would be Lewis's fate.
Like,a bull-dog drawn away from his
antagonist,: he reluctantly loosed his
hold.
"But, surely, your honor," said the
worthy gardener,-"you will let us give
the young villain some punishment for
insulting your honor."'
" Has he, then, insulted master ?"
said the tall footman, for he had heard
nothing of the story. "Why, tfien,
this is worse-than he behaved when he
raidg;'some time ago, at our front door'.

n J
,.
,
F-
t
r
/
P p  J,
P.
r c"'e

e;
i

I hope, sir," he added, turning to Mr.  "Good-by ; I shall never forget you.
Somerset, and grasping thestick firmly, God-bless-you 1"
" I have your permission to cane him." The child, with sudden energy, be-
The eyes of Hester for a moment fore her father was aware of her in-
were fixed on the man, and they shot tention, quitted his side, and darted
rays of fierceness through their tears. towards Lewis. She hung on his neck.
"You dare not, you shall not use She did not speak, but sobbed'and sob-
that cane 1"                       bed, as if her fond heart were gushing
The footman stared in astonishment, away with her tears.  As the boy
lowering his stick, and falling-back a stooped to support her, her long golden
few paces from his young mistress. curls covered his shoulder and his
But Mr. Somerset, who heartily wished arms.
to bring the scene to a conclusion,  That picture of artless innocent love
turned to Lewis, pointing, at the same a painter's pencil might have done just-
time, towards the gate of the ter- ice to, but words would "fail to repre-
race.                              sent. Even the rough gardener, and
"Boy, you have permission to leave. the cold formal footman, were moved
This time no punishment will be in- to a strange compassion; and Mr. So-
flicted on you. But I tell you plainly, merset forgot' himself so far as, for a
if ever after the present warning you few, moments, to forbear interrupting
are caught trespassing on the grounds, the last adieu of the peasant boy and
or even in the vicinity of that garden, his child. But a sense of his position
my servants will have full liberty to and dignity soon conquered the weak-
chastise you, and that in a very severe ness'which he felt creeping upon him.
manner. Now, go !" '               He took Hester by the hand and led
Strange to say, notwithstanding the her into the house, while Lewis, not
license given him to depart, the feel- suffering himself to look back, hurried
ings of Lewis seemed at this moment through the gate.
to be more harrowed than before. His
heart wildly palpitated, and his emo-
tions almost suffocated him. He did
not move, but kept his eyes fixed on        CHAPTER XIV.
the 'squire.
. "Sr," he said at length, "may I           THE TEMPLAR.
speak for one minute ? I have done
wrong; but never had a poor lad such  AND what change had time wrought
excuse, as myself. I thank you for in Roland Hartley'? Look at that sol-
your kindness in placing me at the itary figure walking up and down
school. I will never forget what I owe Fountain-court in the Temple l now
you :so long as I live. Do not fear I pausing before the ancient hall in which
shall: annoy you again by trespassing no revellers are seated over their cups;
on your grounds, for I leave this place, now with his eyes fixed on the sundial
perhaps, for ever. -I go forth into the whicha1ge after age, has been keeping
world with a 'hope "of one day being its chronicle of the great luminary's
what I am not now. But whether. I career, noting down the changes - of
fail or succeed, I shall never know any that heavenly traveller in brightness
but respectful and grateful feelings for and shade, and intimating to every man
yourself, while for; another--but this who passes below, although he cannot
seems in me only daring.or madness- or will not hear its voice, "Thy life is
perhaps it is, and on this account I fleeting as the shadow on my dial'!"
hasten away."                        Now  you may see him     leaning
His look here was directed to Hester, against the iron rail while he watches
who was bending down her forehead on the play of the fountain-shooting up-
her father's= arm. Lewis, as' he wit- wards and falling, shooting upwards
nessed her grief, stopped short in his and falling-splash, splash, and bub-
little speech. His stout heart instantly ble, bubble-sparkling and subsiding
gave way; hnd taking off his cap he -shining again, and again melting
covered his face with.it, that the menials into the dark smooth water in the
might not.perceive his tears. Then he round stone reservoir-the very image
walked steadily towards the gate, whis- and type of a monotonous life ; dull
poring as he passed near Hester,  butnever weary, that springing sib

40

41

ii

:; . ,


HES.TER SOMERSET.

HESTER SOMERSET.

very jet-on, on, through the long
heavy hours, like a remorseful memory
which strives to 'sleep, but cannot'.,
Little change might have been per-
ceived in the countenance of Hartley,
His physiognomy was one on which
years produce small visible effects: the
forehead, though it betrayed no wrinkle,
was more massy, and the cheeks had
parted with some of their freshness,
but the jetty black of his hair conti-
nued unaltered ; his teeth had lostnone
of their dazzling whiteness ; the firm-
ly-compressed mouth had its old ex-
pression of austere, serenity and un-
bending resolution; while his eyes,
usually half closed; and always averted
from the person whom he addressed,
retained, when lit up by.anger, all their
sinister fierceness and, withering fire.
We have represented Hartley of that
peculiar disposition which led him to
brood over one subject for a great
length of time.* Hence his love and
his hatred were passions, not of anmonth,
or a year, but of*a life's .duration.
The image of her he loved, long, ago
was as vivid to his fancy as it was era,
she had accepted his rival.' His hatred
for that rival had resigned not one
particle of its bitterness, and his de-
termination, of- regarding .him as a
victim whom, however the final stroke
might be delayed, he was resolved to
crush, remained unshaken. 'Having
contented himself with dreaming for
years over "the, vengeance which he
bad already obtained," he now awoke;
from a'state that had, begun to resem-
ble, so to speak, a reasoning sleep,.
During the; time which had elapsedhe
found that Soaeraet and his wife had
conquered old sorrows, banished early-
remembrances, and werenow perfectly-
happy. Strange to, say, he rejoiced at
this last circumstance, for had he not,
in a measure, suspended- his perseen-.
tions, and allowedthem to bask for
awhile in the sin of peace and good,
fortune, the, storm with which .he in-
tended to overwhelm, them would be
less severely felt. All conditions,-of
pain as well as, of pleasure are height-
ened by. contrast ; Hartley, therefore,
was not hasty or headlong, but refined
and methodical in the execution of his
designs.
Somerset and Isabella, then, were
d happy ; lHartley was miserable, and
they had occasioned, he believed,.his
wretchedness. He; must drag them

down to the same condition of moral
suffering as that which he conceived
his own to be, and until they were in
the abyss-an. abyss from which they
could not hope again to rise-his ven-
geance -would not be satisfied or com-
plete. He must go forward, and-.
work out his vow.

CHAPTER XV.

A QUAINT LOCALITY IN, THE CITY--* H.
JEREMIAH PIKE IN DOMEsTIC LIFE.
As the wayfarer-passes out of Grace-
church-street-than which no thorough-
farein the good city of London presents
a scene of -more continued turbulence,
inasmuch as it is the grand starting-
post for all descriptions of, vehicles'
bent on carrying her Majesty's subjects
to divers points of the compass within
eight or ten miles of the standard: in.
Cornhill-as he passes, we say, from
the shouts, the whirling wheels, and
the cries of fear peculiar to this useful
'and accommodating locality, into Lead-
enhall-street, and proceeds due east,
he will presently find himself in the
vicinage of thatpot memorable in our
history as being 'honored by the resi-
dence of the attorney, Mr. Pike.
Leaving the great mansion of the.
merchant-princes,  the  East  India
House,,on his right hand, he will at
onee enter St. Mary-Axe. When this,
narrow winding thoroughfare obtained:
its, picturesque name, antiquaries, we,
believe, cannot determine-a fact prov-'
ing that its origin, being unknown,.
must needs, date far back in the;night
of time.' Ere we have proceeded a
very few steps, our; attention.is arrest-
ed by a venerable church which abuts-
upon, the sti-eet: The tower is singu-
larly shaped, and issadorned with four.
pinnacles, a smaller tower ,springing
up between.. these,r andboasting a-gilt
vane.
"And what is. the name of this
church,?" we ask, of a native who has
driven his, business .in St.MaryAxe-
for, perhaps; the better half of a cen-
tury. Viecannot tell; he never goes
there. Another: person thinks it is,
called St., Andrew,; and a third fur-
nishes the. correct 'information-r--St.:
Andrew Undershaft.    . :
A dweller in the country may scarce-.

ly believe this ignorance' can exist with of the olden time was not actuated by
regard to' the very names of places of the spirit of the ancient Egyptian ; he
worship in whose shadow the inhabit- had no desire to preserve his dust, no
ants live ; but churches rise so thick- ambition' to perpetuate his memory;
ly in the city of London, and are so, and he was laid in these quiet little
little frequented--the  less educated nooks, content that forgetfulness and
classes plodding on and on, lookiiig utter oblivion should' wrap his deeds
only on the wares in their shops, and and his naue.
burying their hearts in their mioney-  But we hasten on our journey down
tills--that the matter, on due reflection, St. Mary-Axe. On our left are situated
will not appear either strange or very Great St. Helen's and Crosby-square,
improbable. Within this church rests famous in bygone years for their pa-
Stow, the indefatigable chronicler and laces. Crosby Hall alone retains a
antiquary-Stow who,. two centuries' vestige of the magnificence once cha-
and a half since, devoted his life to .raterizing the spot, foi the palaces
the study of the antiquities of his of dukes are turned into merchant's
country, and in his old age, like 'Homer, offices, and baronial halls into ware-
begged his bread. But the vagrant houses.
has a monument now, and from the We now arrive close upon the resi-
gilded roof, the Tudor architecture, dence'of Mr. Pike, and pause opposite
and: the portraits of England's kings to an antiquated archway, the summit
painted on the windows, the visitor of which displays a largo -white key-
turns to this object as ignore interesting, stone. Some tasteless, unpoetical in-
and sighs over the ashes of genius novator has, no doubt, robbed the
that' suffered and starved. Peace to place of its ancient dig ified appella-
thy shade; patient, toiling, gifted, ill- tion, for above this keystone you read
requited Stowe I                    the modern matter-of-fact name of
But we are outside of the church, "Brown's Buildings." Proceeding un-
and close by the iron railings which der the arch, the pi'osect we gain of
bolder the pavement. We enter the the region within is by no means en
gates.  Solemn   thoughts  instantly couraging. Where a porter's lodge in
press upon our minds. We are cut off past days-iight have stood;, a vendor
from the living, and' stand' upon the of coals, firewood, and dried 'fish has
dust of eeituries. There, but a few  set up his shed. The houses which
feet from us, the huntof traffic, the constitute the "Buildings" are neither
rapid'feet of busy passengers, and all very lofty nor very antiques The only
the sti- of life go forward. Iler-e We thiig ancient about them appears to
are with tte dead. Yes, eVery fiagtone be confinedto the door-ways. In truth,
beneath' us coveis a grave. Theiroc- one might :imagine that all the old
cupiers were once outside that rail, domiciles had been swept away, while,,
bustling along, driving bargains, chink- by. some strange- fatality,,every door
ing coin, and shouldering on one side remains in its first station. Resen-
the best of their. ,Let us now'quietly bling the entrances of the mansions in
stoop andread.' Why,'their.verynaines, Alderman's-walk andBroad-street, not
with a few exceptions, time has ren- far distant, we find here the door-posts
dered illegible .Epitaphs of one or and lintels curiously carved, in the'
two hundred years back we' can deci- quaint Dutch style. Above each door
pher; but all letters traced before that' is-seen a heavy projection, or pent-
date, the 'rain, and the few  steps house, which serves thedouble purp ose
which  reluctantly-'-very reluctantly of a screen from' the rain and a civic
--evei turniwithin those gates; hae flower-garden.
entirely obliterated Yes, the natives of this court, where
The little cemetery, about- twenty the' air is at all times sinoky and close,
yards'square, li's beyond. Some hun take a peeuliai pride in cultivating
dreds of the natives'of old London may Sowers oin the summits of'their doors..
have 'found here a resting-pkeee but The scene, when we visited the place,
not one nonurent'can ee perceive forcibly reminded us of the Greek his-
standing. The earth, to-day hasbeen torian's description of the  ingig-
turned over bydhi spade; probably gardens of Babylon. - These'hanging-.
grass-seeds are to lesown,:'or a few  gardens of"Brown's Buildings" might
fiowets planted. The real Lo&amp;id'one'r be'less gorgeous than the parteires of

42.

48


44

H.EST'ER SOMERSET.

Nebuchadnezzar's capital, yet, were we
much pleased to witness this struggle
after rural beauty in such a. spot. A
flower in a nosegay, even to a cockney,
is nothing compared with a flower
really growing. The red earthen-pots
were ranged in rows ; they boasted
dwarf lupins, emaciated geraniums,
and sickly mignonette, which sent
forth all the odor their consumptive
natures possibly could. The place is
comparatively retired and quiet ; a few
noisy children at times play on the
broad flat stones with which the court
is paved, or .disport themselves in the,
gutter which,-like the Rhine separating
two countries, pours gently its mud
along, and divides " Brown's Build-
ings" into two equal parts.
Mr. Pike was not a householder ; he
escaped all onerous responsibilities by
hiring, at a cheap rate, a second floor.
The stranger who entered his office
found that, unlike many lawyers, he
actually was a man of business. Bun-
dles, tied with red tape, thumbed and,
blackened by frequent reference-
heaps of paper recently written on,
lying about in great confusion-suffi-
ciently intimated that Mr. Pike did
not always dream or sit idle in that
room. Yet the apartment was mi-
serably furnished ; the chairs were
cane-bottomed, withholes worn through
the centre'; the table was worm-eaten,
and cracked across the top, while the
coarse Kidderminster carpet did not
exceed two yards square.
The door; standing ajar, revealed an
apartment beyond. 'There the   eye
was refreshed by the sight of sundry
cooking utensils: a display of half-
broken caps and saucers on a little
sideboard; an old iron coal-scuttle ;
and, in the corner, a turned-up bed-
stead.
These- were Mr. Pike's two rooms,
and formed his only place of dwelling.
We are led, therefore, to conclude that
the attorney was either extremely poor
or a remarkable miser. He was now
alone in his office.; his posture indi-
cated 'thought, for he * leant with his
elbows on the 'table, his lean hands
being buried 'beneath the bunches of
his red hair. His hatchet face time
had elongated, and rendered even more
sharp ; his body, also, was more worn
and meagre. In every other respect,
Mr. Pike appeared the same active and
intelligent individual he was a dozen

HESTER SOMERSET.

years previously. Between his elbows,
as he stooped over the table, stood a
small japanned iron cash-box ; on
this object his round, brilliant, sloe
eyes fixed themselves at times lovingly,
while his thin, bloodless lips-for they
had no hue in them--moved with rapid-
ity, although no articulate 'sounds
were produced. Pike, indeed, was a
miser: the addition made to his annual
income through the liberality of Hart-
ley had awakened the desire of saving,
and this passion steadily increased
with his increasing hoard, and strength-
ened with his age.
* It is a solitary joy that of accumu-
lation, yet an intense, soul-wrapping,
devouring flame. The miser's raptures,
as he gathers heap on heap, casting
more and yet more into the great
whole, none but the miser himself can
understand or imagine. All other
pleasures derived from the finer feel-
ings, or the exercise of the mental
faculties, seem to him poorE and profit-
less. He lives in his gold for his gold,
smiles over it, weeps over it, dreams of ,
it; the only pang he. ever experiences
is when some darker and desponding
'moment forces upon, him the convic-
tion that silver and gold cannot be
taken with him beyond the confines of
this world. Death is the cruel de-
spoiler, theunsparing bankrupt-maker
even of the miser.
"Fifty-a hundred-four hundred,"
Mr. Pike began softly to mutter.
"Yes, I think I shall add four hundred
pounds to the stock this year, which
will make that sum in consols, let me
see-ten thousand six hundred and
fifty pounds. Is this well? No; my
domestic expenditure has been, far too
great during the past year. I have
lived too well-much too freely. Why,
the year's expenses, not including
house-rent, amount to' no less than
thirty pounds four shillings and three-
pence--enormous ,wasteful! ruinous!
I must reform."
His brow was knit, and a dark cloud_
settled upon it. But as his eyes glanced
again at the cash-box, and certain'
schemes for retrenchment or domestic
saving passed through his mind, the
.frown Lradually softened, until his
wide nouth puckering upat the corners,
a smile of deep satisfaction fairly over-
spread his meagre visage.
A low tapping outside of the office
disturbed th awyer's reverie. "Comea

45

in," said Mr. Pike ; at the same time  Mr. Pike-looked grave, rather black,
he arose, and gently closed the inner but maintained silence, occupying him-
door, communicating with the single self in paring his nails with a pen-
room, at once his kitchen, parlor, and knife.
dormitory. The visitor or client was  "You won't enforce the payment, I
a middle-aged, sickly-looking man, and hope, sir ? Believe me,, I am in the
his dress betokened him to belong to utmost poverty ; besides, I am very
the humbler classes. He was well ill."
known to Pike, who had often endea- ,"Now, no nonsense, Tomkins, about
vored to get up a quarrel between him illness," said Mr. Pike, pettishly;
and his neighbors, for no other purpose "you are well enough, I dare say; and
than that he, the lawyer, might have you have plenty of vegetables in your
the happiness of settling the dispute. shop. I must have my money !"
The man kept a small greengrocer's   "But sir, common justice-common
shop in an alley leading from St. Mary- humanity=.  "
A      -e.  "I must have my money !" inter-
"Mr. Pike," said the tradesman, in rupted Pike, raising his voice.
a sorrowful accent, holding a slip of  "I'm pressed hard on all sides. I
paper in his hand, and which appeared don't like to have the parish doctor,
to be a bill, "I didn't expect, sir, and the other refuses to give me any
you'd have sent me this."          more advice or medicine unless I can
Why, Mr. Tomkins? It is all right pay him something."
-quite legal, I believe."            "Pay me first-I must have my
I don't know what you call 'legal,'  oney," roared Pike, warming into a
sir ; but I know I'm a poor man with passion, and striking the table with his
six children, and every penny is pre- fist.
cious; and since I lost my donkey,   "But I hope you will'bate something
which used to carry about my vege- of the charge, sir ?"
tables, everything has gone wrong with  " Not a farthing-my time is too
me"       .                        valuable to transact business on lower
"I am sorry for it, Mr. Tomkins ; terms. A letter-legal advice-total
but with regard to that ill-used donkey, charge only eleven and eightpence ;
I did my best, I believe, to gain you hang it, man ! what would you expect?
redress"h                          Not a farthing less-,pay me my
"Why, look you, sir, I just said to money !"
you one day, as you passed by my shop,  Then I trust you will give mne
that the man in Grayhound-alley had time.".
cruelly beaten my poor beast, and the  " Yes, until three o'clock to-morrow
blsws caused, in my opinion, her death. afternoon, by which hour, if the money
Whereon, without my orders, you sent, is not punctually paid, I shall take
hii a letter on the subject, threatening such steps for the recovery of the same
prosecution, and put me down for it in as the law  prescribes; but by this
this bill five shillings. Again, at.an- course, remember, the said amount may
other time, when you came to order a be about doubled, law expenses of
few potatoes, Ijust said, 'Do you think, course being always discharged by the
Mr. Pike, I could get damages from party who is debtor."
the man who killed my donkey?' and   The man, in his ignorance, believing
you answered, 'Very likely ;I think all that Pike asserted, was greatly
so.' Then ,you go home, and charge agitated, and his sickly face took a yet
for this as it is set down here: 'LIegal more cadaverous hue.
advice'oh the subject of damages in the  "Well, sir, swell, I'll stop such a
matter of a slaughtered donkey--six proceeding 'if it's possible. I'll go
shillings and eightpence!' Oh ! Mr. 'home, and sell some of my furniture,
Pike," added the poor greengrocer, his though, alas! I've little enough of
eyes filling with tears, "it was bad and that."
ruinous' enough for me to loseAmy use-  "Do," said Pike ; "dispose of some
ful little beast ; but to be obliged to of your furniture.",
pay this sum as well after her death,  "My own bed 'is already in pawn.
when I and my children are nearly I've only a deal table and the poor
starving, it's almost too much for me-  children's stools to offer the broker."
I shall break dewrn under it." "Now, no more words ; you worry

,  A

F ,..,fir ,

i
Viz

.
r
4
pp
3
6
q}
t
a

i;
t
+
"s
b"
f
E
:
3;
3
t
!

4
n
3
j
t
i
}
J
7
t

;
Yr  t7
41
. .
r


HESTER SOMERSET.

HESTER SOMERSET.

me. Go. I don't care how you obtain
the amount, so you get it. Good-day.
Remember, three o'clock to-morrow-
I must have my money !"
The man left the office with a sigh,
but Mr. Pike experienced a singular
description of pleasure, if the smile on
his lip might be considered an evidence
of such satisfaction.
" This is the way to munage the low,
uneducated classes," he whispered.
"Yes, yes, we must govern them by
fear. Humanity? I am as humane
and merciful as most men, I believe;
but lawyers must live. Were I to
forgive this man his debt, by the same
rule I might extend like lenity to every
other person -who owes me money.
Such a proceeding would be absurd,
highly reprehensible. I act then per-
fectly right, and in strict accordance
with honor, equity, virtue, and good-
ness."
At this pleasing conclusion of Mr.
Pike's little  self-examination, the
worthy man smiled again. He felt,
or imagined he felt, all that warms
the philanthropic breast ; and he ab-
solutely was not aware (so entirely:
may a man deceive himself) that his
heart was as cold as December's icicle,
and as hard also. Another visitormade
his appearance, but he did not belong
to that class which Mt. Pike was ac-
customed to browbeat. The lawyer
instantly rose, making a profound-
almost a servile-bow. Roland Hart-
ley stood before him.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE SECRET CoNsULTATION-HOw SHALL
THEY RUIN EIM?
Tims was not the first visit which
Hartley had paid to the attorney of St.
Mary-Axe. He called at times on Mr.
Pike, lest the too frequent appearance
of the latter person at his chambers
might attract attention, or awaken
suspicion, the character of Pike being
known to some of the. honorable mem-.
hers of This profession. The doors were
made fast, and the two, drawing chairs
close to each other, commenced their
consultation in a low tone of voice.
It had been a -curious, stu4g to have
watched the varying expression, indi-
cative of the workings of the mind,
visible on the 'countenances of these

men. Their physiognomies, as much
as their dispositions, were opposed to
each other. The massive features of
Hartley, the still, reflective forehead,
shaded by jet-black hair, and the
down-bent eyes, were in singular con-
trast with the sharp profile, low brow,
red bunchy hair, and eternally restless,
twinkling, little visual organs of Mr.
Pike. The one was' slow, moody,
severe, and bitter of heart; the other
was all activity, observance, curiosity,
and craft.An aptillustration ofthe posi-
tion and characteristics of these men
may be found among animals: Pike
was the attendant jackal who scents
and "points" the prey ; Hartley was-
the sullen, but fierce and terrible lion.
The lawyer stooped forward in his
chair, listening attentively, and nod-
ding his head from time to time, as
Hartley disclosed to him some new
wish he entertained, or some new duty
which Pike would have to perform.
" The time is come," pursued Hart-
ley, "for this decisive step. He has,
enjoyed his triumph long enough; and'
she, too-she has been happy long
enough. The wheel of fortune must
revolve. The property shall change
hands. Brookland Hall must be held
by another !"
" True," said the attorney. "I ad
mit you are more deserving, far more
deserving of that fine property than
your elder brother ; therefore, in spite
of the common notion of hereditary
right which prevails in this country, I
maintain the worthy and the most
capable should inherit what their pa-
rents leave. This is real justice ; this
principle, if carried out, would indeed
advance and exalt the social system."
"You mistake me," observed Hart-
ley, smiling; "I am neither ambitiouns
of broad lands nor eager for the ac-
quirement of wealth. In other words,
I do not desire to hold Brookland
Hall myself."
"Not ? I marvel at it." Pike was
indeed surprised. With his strongly
developed organ of acquisitiveness, he
could not well conceive how it was pos-
sible for any man to resist coveting a
fine old mansion and a valuable estate.
" I merely intend, if possible, to de-
prive the present owner of his posses-
sion. Do not question me concerning
my motive. I wish to place Somerset
in a position that shall give me full
power over his fortunes, and, perhaps,

his personal liberty. We must devise
means of bringing this about."
"Certainly, certainly !" said Pike ;
and in his anxiety to catch every low-
spoken word, he slid forward to the ex-
tremity of his chair, holding his head
on one side.
" The estates of my brother, though
well cultivated, are not every large. The
entail has been cut off ; consequently, it
is in his power to dispose of all he
possesses."
"Ay, he can turn his houses and
lands into bank-notes; I am aware of
that."
" Gold is a thing which slips easily
through the fingers," pursued Hartley.
" I am desirous that Somerset should
spend or lose all this gold, and so-be
driven to the necessity of borrowing.'
Pike, judging from his own feelings
and habits, considered such an event
or crisis almost impossible.
"Why, I have reason to think Mr.
Somerset a man of sound sense ; how,
then, may the least chance exist of our
inducing him to part-first with his
estates, and then to squander away the
entire proceeds? No, no," observed
Pike, shaking his head ; " forgive me:
we must not, sir, because we are cau-
tious and prudent ourselves, believe fall
the rest of the world fools-not quite."
"Every man, Mr. Pike, has his weak
or vulnerable point. There is scarcely'
a fortress, however strong, into which
an enemy, by skilful and persevering
efforts, may not at length win an en-
, trance."                  -
" True, very true.  Sage remark-
profound philosophy."
"I give you credit for invention, Mr.
Pike-that is, you have a lively fancy,
as well as deep penetration."
The lawyer bowed at this compliment,
and coughed. He was unable to blush,
for his parchment visage had not be-
trayed the crimson hue of modesty
since boyhood.
f 2      "Can you, therefore, devise a plan
whereby Somerset may be induced to
mortgage or sell his estates, and in the
end be driven to borrow money ?".
Pike remained silent for a few min-
utes, his head being bent, and his
linger placed on his chin. He was in
profound thought.  The little crafty-
face and the glittering eyes were raised
at length, and he spoke slowly and
{      cautiously.
" May went, Mr. Hartley-may we

not excite in him an ambition, to pur-
chase more land ? May we not, by
certain devices, draw him into ruinous
bargains ?"
" Pretty well,' said Hartley: "But
such a scheme, I fear, would only em-
barrass and impoverish, and never
completely ruin him. Try again."
" May we not, through certain visit-
ors or example; inflame his vanity,
and induce him to live in a more ex-
pensive manner? He might build a
new seat, give great entertainments,
keep a pack of hounds and race-studs.
Such a course would inevitably plunge
him into debt."
"No doubt of it. But that line of
conduct, I am fully assured, Somerset
would never pursue. Vanity, and a
love of pleasure, are not his vulnerable
points. I know him."
The attorney's face suddenly beamed
with smiles, and he clapped his hands
together.
" I have it !" he cried. " Let us lure
him up to town ; let us beset him by
'touters,' in the guise of gentlemen,
and entice him at first to billiard-rooms,
and then into houses of deeper play.
No fortune can stand against the gam-
ing-table. Once inside -a gambling-
house, and your victim is' secured.
Believe me, I have had some experience
in this kind of proceeding. Not that I
ever gamble myself-no, my principles
oppose that-but I've crushed an ene-
my by sending him to one of those
fascinating sinks of perdition. I caused
one man to cut his throat, and another
to blow out his brains ; but all ,were
evil-doers, and far better out of the
world than in it. So, 'you perceive,
such acts as mine cannot be called re-
prehensible, sincethey bring aboutgood
to the community at large.'. Mr. Hart-
ley," he added, with great warmth,
"by all means, trust to the irresistible
spell of gaming."
The words of Mr. Pike evidently car-
ried weight with-them; and if ,Hart
ley was not. quite satisfied, he never-
theless seemed disposed to attach con-
siderable:importance to the advice last
given. He remained for some time
without offering any observation, Pike
watching the expression of his counte-
nance with great anxiety.
"This," said Hartley, _at length-
"this certainlyiappears to me the best
idea you have yet started.- But the
scheme involves a difficulty, I fear,

l 4V°  r

47

f,

J
r


48

RESTER SOMERSET.

wholly insurmountable. One sentence after all, very different from my own.
will suffice to explain my meaning. No What is adventure but a; species of
art, no persuasion, will ever succeed in gaming ? People in general draw a
enticing my brother within the walls line, when in reality speculation and
of a gambling-house.  Whether the gaming almost merge into each other.
feeling he entertains arise, from  an A good man, an upright man, a reli-
aversion to play itself, or from qualms gious man will dabble in shares of bub-
of conscience, matters not; he will with- ble companies, but none, except the
stand all temptation."              reprobate, so says the largest half of
"The men I had to deal with," urged mankind, will throw dice in a gaming-
Mr. Pike, "at first expressed their dis- house.- This is the philosophy preva-
like of the dice, and refused to enter lent, yet I doubt its soundness."
the houses. ,I coaxed and encouraged;  "Oh ! never mind the philosophy !"
ttey entered, they staked, and were interrupted Hartley. "I don't think
undone!" ,-                         Somerset, though a thoughtful andacute
"I do not doubt your success, but I mali.enough, is much of a philosopher.
tell you I know Somerset., Jis ideas ie is Elke many others, guided in his
are peculiar-perhaps atitiquated. The actions by th$ opinion of the world."'
rofair              d open, an;1 the  "Right: but in what way-that. is,
sun'of honor must l'iht it up, or this in what kind of speculation or adven-
squeamish, cantiq g brother of mine will ture would you engage Mr. Somer-
ever travel upon it.,Now listen to me. set ?"
Your suggestions are good, and your   "Now, having decided on the line
plans might succeed, had we a dif- of action, Mr. Pike, here it is that I
feren't character to manage. '-Bef9re I stand in'need of your assistance. From
addressed you on the subjact,-I had a a long, residence In the city, and from
scheme.in mysmind. My object wa1 to the nature of your business, you must
draw-from you, if possible, a better one. needs know a great deal as regards
At present, I tftnk my own the best. -aommercial and speculative transac-
No disparagement to" your acuteness tions, and the nature of public com-
or sagacity ; I esteem both as highly as panies." '
ever. My brother's weak point, when   "A little at least, I hope- I know a
a young man, was a love of speculation little," said Mr. Pike, modestly.
-what the world calls fair and honor-  "I understand there are several asso-
able speculation, such as taking shares ciations now forming, that hold out the
in great public works,, the ostensible prospect of great profits to such as em-
object of which is benefit to the com- bark in their concerns. Do you think
munity-purchasing in foreign stocks, any of them are very hollow-very rot-
adventuring in mines, and the follow- ten ?"
ing up of all such fluctuating anddan- -- Pike's face assumed a remarkably
gerous modes of investment, which significant expression. His eyes wink-
buoy the mind with dreams of wealth, ed rapidly, a rare occurrence with him,
while they bring certain loss, and of- and he whispered into Hartley's ear-
ten ruin, in the issue. Now, since his''  " Any hollow ; any rotten ?-all of
marriage, Somerset has labored hard them are: I know the directors of seve-
to repress this natural propensity; but ral. Never speculate myself, but do a
I feel confident that a little excitement little that way for some of my clients.
and a few representations only are re- Believe me, without exactly violating
quired to awaken within him this dor- the truth, I can make a bad thing ap-
mant passion in all its old intensity." pear pretty, fair-rather alluring. I
As Hartley concluded, Mr. Pike ap- could name a man for whom last week
feared no way disappointed or dis- I.bought shares which cost two thou-
pleased that his plans had not been sand' pounds, he, the purchaser, being
considered exactly available; On the liable to 'calls' for twenty times that
contrary, he manifested high spirits as amount. As surely as there is a sun-
well as pleasure.                   above us, he will lose thirty thousand!"
"Excellent--the idea is excellent, The features of Hartley brightened,
Mr. Hartley.. Profound view of human and he grasped Pike by the hand.
nature that notion of rousing into life  " This, is exactly what I want. You-
an old slumbering,; passion ; and yet are my- man. I see we shall manage
the scheme proposed by you is not, the affair between us very capitally.

HESTER SOMERSET.

49

But let us be calm, cautious, consider- fices were fitted up in the first style, the
ate.  Bear this in mind, Mr. Pike, desks being of finest mahogany, French
and let the thought .animate you in polished; the- porters were dressed in
your exertions,-the day on which a livery, arms being emblazoned on their
bailiff is able to lag his hand on Somer- large metal buttons; and each director,
set's shoulder, saying, ' You are my with a view to raise in the public mind
prisoner 1' that day shall you receive, a strong idea of the flourishing nature
in addition to your usual annuity, two of their affairs, rode in an elegant car-
hundred guineas !"                  riage.
The heart of Pike knocked against We need scarcely observe that com-
his ribs, and his very hands trembled panes whose less dishonest and insane
with delight ; his soul was lapped in proceedings might possibly be attend-
all the unutterable joys of the miser, ed with success, Pike turned his back
and for a few minutes he was unable upon. Shares in such were not meant
to address Mr. Hartley., He gained, for .Mr. Somerset, since gain would
however, his self-possession, and. the defeat Hartley's purpose.- The attor-
two continued their conference, enter- ney only sought to transact business
ing into the minuter details of their with parties the most brilliant outside,
plan, and weaving, like magicians, in and the most dark and hollow within.
darkness and secrecy, the spell which His usual observations to the board
was to work the downfall of others.  were as. follow: ".iHe knew a gentle-
man of large property -who, if.ap-
plied to, no doubt would take many
shares. It only required a-little ad-
dress on the part of the board."  So
CHAPTER XVII.              the board,. ever anxious to -obtain sub-
segiptions, for on the installments of
T. MrTATIoN.            shareholders alone its members lived
and sported their cafriages, sent pros-
THE' mania for- speculation which pectuses to Mr. Somerset, and even
seized o the public mind, a short time, condescended, on certain occasions, to
prior to  e memorable panic of 1825, addres  letters to him. They, the di-
must still be fresh in the recollection rectors, o they wrote, were interested
of many. The multitude of projected in benefiting the country and thercapi-
plans whereby all men were to gain all talists of England, and therefore were
kinds of wealth for themselves, no indi- unwilling that so liberal a gentleman
vidual wl'atever failing in his attempt, as they heard Mr. Somerset was should
it is astonishing to contemplate. True, not reap a like advantage with his
the idea of railways had but just en- neighbors.
tered men's -minds, but companies of  We must view Somerset in his libra-
every description daily arose; so that ry at Brookland Hall, a short time after
while their number, we believe, equalled the manoeuvres of Pike had begun to
that of thepublic bodies of 1845 and take effect. He was leaning with his
1846, their breaking up was productive back to the -fireplace in a 'still, reflect-
of far more terrible results than the ive posture, his eyes fixed on  the
gradual extinction of the greater por- ground. Before him stood the ample
tion of the last.                   baize-covered table, not spread as for-
It is not our intention to follow Mr. merly with books-those shrines of
Pike in his perambulations from .office the mute eloquence of the departed-.
to office. His object was to discover but heaped with letters bearing large
such companies as offered the most al- official seals, and with long prospect-
luring prospects of gain, but which he uses of certain embryo mines in dis-
felt certain would involve-all whojoined taut quarters of-the globe, which only
them in the greatest difficulties and the wanted to be effectually worked in
largest amount of loss. As an invaria- order to throw up as.much silver and
ble rule, he found those associations, gold as would purchase a kingdom.
whose claims to credit and respecta- Charts, too, were there of seas and
bility were the most - doubtful, en- gulfs, where pearls were said to abound,
trenched in the handsomest buildings, though, by some unaccountable over
and fortified with the most dazzling sight, never yet fished for, In short,
and powerful prospectuses. Their of- there was a chaos in paper of all the

ti

A

+ ve
t
i
i             .
iI
1
i
t
;
1
a
,
;

N,' ,,-.,-

c-


4.

)

50

HESTER SOMERSET.

golden fancies and wild chimeraswhich
characteried the day.,
Somerset, we have observed, was
standing near, the hearth wrapped in
deep thought,:andit was-evident, from
the sucden changes of expression visi-
ble in his countenance, that his reflec-
tions were of-an anxious and painful
nature. His mind was torn by con-
flicting feelings and sentiments. Some
old passion was striving for the mass
tery, and its approaches were met and
opposed by principles and convictions'
of a -later growth. Philosophy and
calm prudence were at variance with
the wild suggestions of afeverish fancy;
indeed, the struggle going forwards
within seemed -every moment to in-
erease. He walked up and down the
oom, then - approached the window
which overlooked the; park: his eyes
were directed to the:garden, to the fine
clumps of -aged trees, to the groups of
deer-but the sight no longer yielded
him pleasure; histhoughts and feelings
were wholly.engrossed by another snub-
ject..
Somerset returned to the table, and.
stood beside it, looking earnestly on the
pile of -miscellaneous papers, but for-
bearing to touch them, as if they con-
tained some terrible secret, or might,
by contact, impart some deadly pesti-
lence. Yet did those documents exer-
cise upon him a spell, for he bent. over
them nearer and nearer. Slowly and
hesitatingly he raised one, but flung it
down again. - His lips moved, his hand
was pressed to his forehead ; and then
he sank into a chair, stooping forwards,
with his eyes fixed, and remaining in
that posture quiet and motionless as a
statue.-
A man yielding to temptation, yet
disputing, inch- by inch, the ground
with the tempter-fiend--the study of
such a character is ever replete with
Interest. Yet we shall not attempt to
enter into an analysis of the varied
feelings and antagonistic passions call-
ed into play within the bosom of So-
merset.
" I thank a Heaven for what "I pos-
sess," he said, softly, to himself. " My
income is amplefor all my wants; and
yet I should be enabled to do more
good to my fellow-creatures if I had
ten instead of three thousand a-year.
I have also long wished to be returned
for the county, but. always dreaded
the expense of a canvass. eSo, what a

splendid idea is that projected pearl--
fishery in the Indian Seas I The trade,
it appears, hitherto has been monopo:
ized by the Persians and Arabs; but
England's turn is come, One hundred
ships ! At the lowest calculation they
are to take pearls yearly to the amount
of 15,0001. each ship. Deduct 50001.
for expenses, and the net annual profit
to be divided will amount to one mil-
lion sterling !"
He ceased-whispering; his eye was
lit up, his foot beat the floor, and he
seemed fast approaching to a determi-
nation. But suddenly recollections as
of some former promise or resolve re-
curred to his mind. Gloom oversha-
dowed his face, and he was thrown
into the same state of cruel uncertainty-
and irresolution as that which agitated
him a few minutes before.
But the door was opened, and she
who, had license at all times to enter
her father's library walked into the
room. A child still in form and fea-
ture was Hester, yet thoughtful and
intelligent beyond her years. Her
step was less-buoyant and giddy than
when we last saw her. A pensiveness,
and a habit of frequent reflection, had
succeeded to light airs and joyous
prattle. Her character was softened,
but at the same- time rendered -more
energetic, while she was capable of
stronger feeling. Hester had remarked
the restlessness and anxiety which had
recently oppressed her father. What
knew she of public companies, specu-
lation , in mines, or pearl-fisheries ?
Such things to her were incomprehen-
sible mysteries, -and raised no ideas to
excite her fancy. She only felt as-
sured that something was wrong--that
something in the- strange maps and
long printed circulars -lately arrived
drew her father's attention away from
his usual pursuits, and.distracted his
mind.
- Hester had been several minutes in
the room, and still her father did not,
appear aware of her presence.- She
quietly approached him  as he stood
bending over the table.
"What are all these papers about,
father? They seem greatly to annoy
you."
qtr. Somerset returned no answer.
"'Why do you not -speak ? Have I
offended you? Tell-,e mp-faults, fa-
ther, that I may beg your pardon."
"Ah, child, is it you ?" said Snmer.-

HESTER SOMERSET.

51

Y.
A
'S
r'
Fg ^t
tS
F9 c
'j'
~ i
^i
k
F}"
P.i
Y. i
r Y
A ^
FY
k)
6666FLL....!j
r,
f
i
fi
I
[x
i
to
pk±'
s

set, at length, without turning his more riches than you have already?
head. " Pearls-Isthtaus of 'Panama This fine old house,:that garden, And
-gold dust--vell, what do you want ?" all those fields which would take we a
Hester regarded him with a puzzled day in-walking around. I think, father,
look.                               we have quite sufficient."
"I am very busy, child ; leave mei  Somerset smiled; and :patted her on
One   hundred  ships-expenses, five the head.
thousand pounds each ship-profits     "Poor child! good, simple child !
one million sterling. Quit the room, you don't know much of the value of-
Hester."                            money yet. The world to you is a
Never before had she been rebuked great unread book. But time enough;
by her too indulgent father, or com- you will know all, I suppose, by and
mended to leave the library. The in- by."
cident, though trifling, had an instan-  Know all by and by-little did he
taneous effect upon her young and imagine ' how prophetic -were these
sensitive heart; her lips quivered, and words! Little did he dream-the hour
her large blue eyes filled with tears, was coming when that unread book of
until those bright violet chalices brim- the world would be perused-by those
med over, and the sparkling drops roll- young eyes with bitter, scalding tears;
ed down her cheeks. The father heard and that she who knew nothing now of
her sob, and, turned quickly around. the .value of money, would task her
In a moment the papers that so tempt- energies for one object, concentrate all
ed him, his mental struggles, his her thoughts upon it, dedicate her days
dreams of wealth-all were forgotten. and her nights to it-that object the
He only saw the innocent weeper. gathering together of a few coins, and
His love for that child was deep as it not for herself but-for him.
was beautiful and holy. His wife was
his companion, the sharer of his hopes
and intellectual joys ; but Hester was
as a j  el set in a casket-a thing to       CHAPTER XVIII.
gaze upon,;to protect and treasure; or
she was to him all that the little image  run GREAT LONDON DIRECTOR.
of some propitious divinity is to the
fervid Hindpo. He worshipped the      ONE fine morning, a handsome car-
Idol, and poured over it his soul's adora- riage with an outrider, .and a footman
tion as well as his heart's gushing and valet in the rumble, drove up to
affection.               .          Mr. Somerset's house.. The knocker
"Come to me, sweet one !" he cried, having been duly plied, the porter, who
drawing her to his breast. " My fairy ! on a former occasion had so indignantly
my seraph! my bright-eyed, beautiful opened his door to Lewis Banks, wasall
child!  Why this sorrow, Hester? obsequiousness and bows. In answer
Why these -tears ? Tell me what you to the inquiry, he said Mr. Somerset
are thinking of, Now, do mot let the was at home, and hurrying in with the
recollection of that b'oy, the poor pea- card of-the great man, speedily an-
sant lad, thus disturb your happy nounced that his master would have
hours. No, no, I know all-you need the honor of waiting upon him im-
not explain-.that fanciful dream is at mediately.
an end now."                          The tallfootman usheredthe stranger
"I was not thinking of him, but of into the library. He was a man about
you."                              fifty years of age, rathercorpulent,
"Ofme I Then dismissyour sorrow, with a large nose, rosy cheeks,- and a
child, for you grieve without a cause." head bald on the crown. - He was fob
" Yes, but I have a cause," exclaimed lowed respectfully by an individual
Hester ; "why are you always here whose-appearance offered a remarkable
alone, and walking up and down? contrast to his own. Surely we cannot
Why do you not go into the village, or be mistaken; that meagre figure and
ride over thegrounds, as you used to quick black eye are Mr. Pike's. Yes,
do ?"                              the lawyer accompanies the merchant
" I would make you a great heiress, prince, the great London director, in
my -child."                        the character of legal adviser.
"A  great heiress? Do yo      want  ,And Pike did not trem   rls

s

1 r,

:h,.     -


. 4

i

HESTER SOMERSET.

his self-possession, though he had just am proud to give my countenance'to
passed the-spot where, in a former day, any undertaking calculated to benefit
he perpetrated his villanous theft, and our native land. That is-I don't mean
was now to enter the presence of him to say-no, no, I never speculate my-
whom he had so irreparably wronged. self; yet this will not prevent my taking
On the contrary, nothing could surpass a lively interest in all great commercial
the sang-froid he exhibited, and the questions."
apparent serenity of his manner.      He uttered these words with a
"I believe I have the pleasure of nervousness and hesitation which arose
addressing Mr. Somerset," said the from  complete indecision of mind.
London director, bowing low, as the Pike quickly read character, but the
master of the house made his appear- corpulent London director, though 4s
ance.                              clever a rogue as he, was more slow in
Somerset repliedin the affirmative.  deciphering the thoughts and senti-
"My 'name is Abercrombe--Mr. ments of others.
Abercrombie from London," continued  ."Never speculate, Mr. Somerset ?"
the red-faced gentleman, again present- said Abercrombie ; "you are right,
ing his card, that Mr. Somerset might perfectly right. But ours is no specu-
be doubly assured of that important lation, sir; it islegitimate commerce;
fact. "And this,' he added, turning certain gain. Perhaps you have never
to his small companion, whose features seen our prospectuses, charts, ormaps?"
wore a quiet smile, "this gentleman  "Probably not," replied Mr. Somer-
is Mr. Pike, attorney-at-law, one of my set: "but you have not told me the
legal advisers."          .    .   name of the company you represent."
The flourish ofself-introductionbeing  "Name-name-ha!" exclaimed the
concluded, Mr. Somerset naturally ex- director, plunging his hand into the
pected some explanation in regard toe side pocket of his large bottle-green
the business of the two visitors. But coat. ."I think those maps must be in
the great man, bent on conveying a my carriage; I always make a point of
due impression of his "greatness" and travelling in my own carriage, Mr.
high standing inthe world, made sundry Somerset. I detest the mail-coach : all
allusions and apologies in reference to very well that mode of conveyance for
his travelling-carriage waiting on the poor gentlemen and plebeians-ah, ah I
terrace, and his two "fellows" remain- The papers must be in"the carriage,
mag in the hall. At length Mr. Aber- Mr. Pike. My valet will get them for
crombie, drawing up his large person, you: stay-here they are."
and elevating his bald head, came to  Upon which, drawn like a huge cork
the point.                         from a colossal bottle, so tightly did it
"Sir, I am making a tour through fit the pocket, a large roll made its
this part of the country on business appearance. During the process of
highly important to England as a com- -unfolding these mysterious documents
mercial nation. I am visiting the ex- on the table,.Mr. Abercrombie did not
tensive landholders and capitalists, and cease speaking for an instant..
therefore have taken the liberty of  "Name, sir, name? you certainly
turning my carriage aside to wait on must have heard of an association
the owner of Brookland Hall. The which has created so great an excite-
fact is, Mr. Somerset, I am one of the ment in the metropolis. It is the great
acting directors of W large company Consolidated Diamond Company of
recently organized in London--a com- Brazil, and Geld-Dust Association of
pany which, beyond all others, has for South Africa. As for shares, we are
its object the raising of England to a at no loss to dispose of them, I assure
degree of opulence unprecedented in you, for we have thousands of applica-
the history of nations."           tions daily."j
Mr. Abercrombie-paused at this cli- "Yes, the head office in London,"
max of his eloquence, and Mr. Pike chimed in Mr. Pike, "is almost, as it
looked "silent admiration."        were, in a state of constant siege, so
" Ah ! I understand," said Mr. Soin- anxious are people to join this-wonder-
erset, "perfectly understand your busi- ful undertaking." -
ness now.   Of course," he added, "But our system," continued, Aber-
shutting the library.door, and pointing crombie, smoothing down the edge"of
to chairs; "I am glad to see you, and a map with his large red hand, " differs

HESTER.SOMERSET.'

53

F

:
'h
4 
ft
!"  3

from  the. systems usually pursued. His resolution not to speculate became
We are resolved to take high ground, weaker and weaker ; the.tempter-fiend
sir, high ground : therefore we refuse was gaining ground; the long-contested
to distribute small shares; we would battle-was nearly decided.
rather confine ourselves, to a limited  We may here observe that the great
number of the larger capitalists. Power man who rode in his own carriage, with,
and respectability, sir, is the motto of two "fellows" in the rumble, three
our company. So I think you will un- months previously kept a cheesemon-
derstand our m ties in the present ger's shop in Bishopsgate-street. Re
canvass. Our lst of subscribers will had but followed the example of many
be confined to o e hundred gentlemen, others in a similar line of life, men with
who will advance five thousand pounds clear heads and knavish hearts, who,
each,a half a million being the expected taking advantage of the general mad-
outla."                             ness which prevailed, built their for-
The prospectuses, maps, and charts tunes upon the ruin of their, dupes.
were all opened, and a most dazzling Abercrombie, shuttingup his shop, pro-
and tempting prospect indeed was held jected with some friends the undertak-'
out by the Great Consolidated Dia- ing above named; he formed of course
mond Company of 'Brazil, and Gold- one of the board of directors, and re-
Dust Association  of South Africa. ceived a lion's share of all the moneys
Even the pearl-fishery, with the one subscribed by the credulous people
hundred ships, shrank into insignifi- who joined them.
cancer beside this colossal undertaking.  " Now, sir, what do you say?" asked.
We must pause for an instant to sur- Mr. Abercrombie, a bland smile on,
vey that group. There sat the stout his face, which in its breadth and red
director, with the mass of papers now  tint bore- a strong resemblance to one
spread on his knees, passing each pre- of his own Cheshire cheeses. " I think
cious document from time to time into by this time you will be convinced
the ,finds of Mr. Somerset. All his that the objects *e have in view are
ingenuity and pompous eloquence were of high national importance. Unlike
called into requisition to resound the some other concerns, split into thou-
praises of the wondrous scheme, and set sands of shares, this will render at once
forth the picture in the most alluring our one hundred gentlemen : subscrib-
colors. 'Mr. Pike drew his small body ers merchant-princes. . The five thou-
close up to the great man's elbow, in- sand pounds of each will be certain the
geniouslyfilling any pause which first year to return in dividends-"
might occur by some pithy remark, "Ah, that is' the point," said Mr.
and cleverly expatiating on the solidity Somerset. " What may the profits be
of the company, organized on the broad estimated at?"
principles of established commercial  " The first year, I say, the dividends,
law. Mr. Somerset, to us the most cannot be less than double the outlay
important personage, was gazing silent- -that is,.ten thousand pounds a share.
ly but eagerly through his spectacles As the diamond-valleys, through an
on the large printed sheets. Here, his extension of the works, become more
eye ran along the mountain ridges of productive,.and our commerce with the
the Andes, some of the ' hills being Africans steadily increases, the wealth
painted yellow, and termed "gold-bear- that must be the result baffles calcula-
ing hills :" there, long bright streaks tion. For my own part, I do not scru-
were called " valleys rich with dia- pie to affirm, that in three, or-at most
monds." On the African coast, the four.years, each.shareholder will have
quantities of gold-dust to be had merely made a clear profit of one hundred
for'the trouble of taking away, were thousand pounds I"
described as being immense, a few A profound silence for a few minutes
worthless glass beads only being re- ensued, during which conflicting-and
quired t&amp; induce the natives to' bring strong emotions continued to -agitate
the "-dust" down to the shore in wa- the breast of Somerset. At length he
gon-loads.                          spoke.
Mr. Somerset every moment grew "Mr. Abercrombie, far be it from
more pale and more excited ; his hand me to raise, any argument against the
trembled; and when he spoke it was justness of your views. Indeed, the
in a husky and. almost inaudible voice. objects of your company seem to me


54

HESTER SOMERSET.

as honorably commercial as their scope
is comprehensive. At the same time I
hesitate-that is, I--I cannot at once
become a shareholder. I must reflect-
a little--make a little further investi-
gation."
"Quite right, Mr. Somerset ; take.
time. You, can write to the " board"
in London by and by; and as for in-
vestigation, we court it."
" But," suggested Mr. Pike, rather,
alarmed at the idea of a postponement
of the business, "suppose the shares,.
in the mean time; should be all sold,
this golden opportunity lost.
"   must, -investigate," repeated.
Somerset,.firmly.
'"By all means," rejoined the director.,
A luminous thought flashed upon the
mind of Mr. Pike.
" Pardon me, gentlemen," .he said,
" but listen.  In these stirring and
glorious fimes, when every-Englishman
possessing a small capital to start with
is raising- himself to- a: magnate of
the land, no man who. wishes' to ad-
vance the interests of his country, or,
elevate himself, should be' absent from
London. The information which Mr.
Somerset tardily gains here in armonth
concerning the public companies, if
he- were now in London, a single
day would put him in possession of.
Oh ! such a time, such an opportunity,
will never come again ! London is the
seat of all -knowledge, the mart of all
wealth. How I envy those Who now
have 'capital' there I  They must
amass large fortunes, even if they use
no erertions, and. are not desirous of
doing. it."
The words of Pike sank into the
heart of Somerset, and, though the
latter made no direct'observation, these
honeyed, crafty words were not soon 1
forgotten. He asked a few more ques-
tions, and invitedthem to take luncheon; 1
so :the stout London' director and the
little lawyer eat cold partridge, and sip-
ped Mr. Somerset's Madeira.   Suc-
cess was drunk to the "Great Consoli-c
dated Diamond Company of Brazil,
and Gold-Dust Association of South is
Africa."  Success, also (so liberal and
philanthropic. were. the two friends)
was wished to every other fair under-d
taking, including the- Pearl-Fishery d
Company, the Isthmuses-of-Suez-and- t
Panama-Cutting- Company, and, the,
Bridge-of- Boats-from -Dover-to -Calais
Association. Then they parted. The

great director was going to make visits
to other capitalists.  His carriage,
with his "fellows" in the rumble,
dashed along the gravelled terrace, the
grays  prancing, and   the  postilion
cracking his whip, while Mr. Somerset
returned' to his study to  meditate and
to dream.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE FIRST sTrP DOWN THE HILL oF RUIN
-FAREWELL TO THE COUNTRY.
AotrT a weekhad elapsed from the
date of our last chapter. The doors of,
the old oak',drawingroom, already de-
scribed in our pages, were closed. - Mr.
Somerset was standing near a panelled
recess, motionless as a person under
the influence of a spell. One foot was'
advanced, his body being drawn back,
as if he half retreated from some object.
His hand shaded his eyes, but the'
lower part of his countenance, being'
visible, expressed deep emotion and'
pain.
Before him, kneeling on the floor.
and clasping his right hand in both'
her own, was. seen his wife. Fifteen
years younger than himself, Isabella
was still eminently beautiful.' Her
figure, though full, had lost none of'
the elasticity of- early youth. Her
complexion was very fair, and her har-
monious features preserved their ex-
quisite outline, their general expres-
sion betokening great placidity of mind-
and warmth of heart. Her eyes were=
now raised to her husband's- face be-
seechingly, and brimming with tears,
and as her neck in that attitude swayr=
backward, her hair, escaping from its
band, fell in a black mass over her'
shoulders. Still no word was~ spoken
by either, 'looks being :the only lan-
guage of Isabella. -But Somerset
averted his- face gradually more and'
more, unable to withstand the pleading-
of those beloved and eloquent eyes.
The rays of the evening sun, steal-
ng through the gold-fringed damask
curtains, fell upon them. The very air
seemed glowing and soft, until their
[russ and their features assumed that
deep rich peculiar -tint which charac-
erizes the picture-groups of the paint-
er Murillo.
"Isabella," sa  Somerset, at length,
"I have now unbosoned myself. I

HESTER SOMERSET.

55

would keep no secrets-from you. Let and to understand and manage them
perfect confidence ever. exist between nature has fitted his powers. I oppose
us."                                your wishes and combat your opinions
" Thank you for this, thank you, my no longer;. and since you say these
dear husband. But again I call upon speculations cannot be termed gaim-
you to remember your promise."      bling, my ardent prayer is that success
" Do, not distress me ; do not strive may attend you."
any longer to shake my resolves. I    The bosom of Somerset was relieved
have considered the subject long and of its load, and, his satisfaction and
anxiously ; I have weighed    every pleasure were unbounded. in having
circumstance. My determination is won his wife's acquiescence with his
taken."                             views. So the matter was decided;
"Your promise," repeated 'Isabella. Mr. Pike's suggestion had not been
"Before we married, conscious your- lost upon the country squire, as he
self of that one weakness in your cha- intended to  start- immediately for
racter-a .love of the uncertainty and London. There he should be in 'the
excitement of play-you vowed never very field of action, enabled to watch
to take up a card, 'never to enter a the progress of events, and take all
gaming-house."                      proper advantage of such information
"I admit it ; but there is no gaming as might be daily gleaned on the spot.
in the present question. The compa- Since, too, his stay in the metropolis
nies I intend joining have for their .was likely to be a protracted one, his
object fair, legitimate. commerce."  wife and daughter would- accompany
"I am   told. differently ; I think him, a trustworthy  dependent, his
otherwise. The projectedschemes are butler, being left in charge; of the
full of hazard,. full of doubt. Your family mansion.
mind will be. constantly in a state of  The morning of the departure is
suspense, and forever on the. rack. come. Merrily the sun flashes on the
Our peaceful and happy days will have diamond-paned windows of the any
vanished, and in their stead.-"     cient Elizabethan pile.- The gilt vane
"Wealth will be ours ; wealth, Isa- on the clock-tower glitters, and the
bella, of which you can form no con- hand on the dial-below points at seven.
ception. Then, after toil: and. a little The shadows lately castby the trees in
anxiety, those peaceful and happy the park are chased away, like dark
times will come. again. Bat do not memories flee before- the smiles of pre-
misunderstand me. I am not- actuated sent joy. The deer toss-their antlered
by the, mere love of money, or even heads and form groups in the sun at
'by motives of ambition. I would. do the foot-of-the green knolls, or bound
good to my fellow-creatures, more good 'toward the dividing streamlet to-drink.
than hitherto I have been able-.to The robber-breeze, enteringthegarden,
effect: I wou ld build. another church is rifling the awaking flowers of their
in this extensive parish, erect and-en- first and sweetest breath; and the
dow schools; In Parliament, I would birds, instead of deploring the theft,
do all in'my humble ability to ameli- are-all singing in joyous chorus, as if
orate the condition of, the suffering they-exulted in the rich prize which
classes, and extend the blessings of that breeze is bearing away on his
peace and virtue.",                 heavily-laden wings. Nothing ;in na-
" There spoke.- my sanguine, yet ture, seems- to mourn, although the
my generous-hearted and noble bus- possessor .of the -be'autiful domain
band !" cried Isabella, smiling through. around are. about to leave it perhaps
her tears. Herfacile nature yielded; -forever.
her quiet and loving heart could op-  One fair form is bounding through
Ser; springing up, the garden; she goes there totake a
she flung her, arms-around his neck. last look of the flowers, the fountain,
"Hugh! Hugh 1 forgive, me for what 'and -the grotto. Change- and excite-
have rged upon you-for all I have meant are ever welco to the young,
said. You know I have only -your therefore Hester anticipates with pleas-
-   welfare, and our mutual happiness, at. ure her visit to the metropolis and the
heart.  Perhaps I view things with busy world. Yet the haunts of child-
the timidity of a woman; man is the hood are bound to her heart by many
best judge of business transactions, a tie-ties which neither time, nor

4  ;  1

iy
S
Y
_ eq
5


56

HESTER SOMERSET-

trials, nor sufferings, shall ever entirely
dissolve.
She approaches the fountain where
the gold and silver fish are sporting,
revived.by the return of sunshine. She
does not stoop to plunge her arms
playfully into the sparkling waters
now, but stands pensively looking at
the crowd of little finny inhabitants
who, perceiving her, and expecting the
wonted crumbs, flock to the surface
with their crimson gleaming backs.
Hark! to the note of the canary, as
from his suspended cage within the
grotto he welcomes his mistress. She
will not, at least, part with him, and
he is destined to accompany her to the
great city.. Go! bird,. go! nor regret
the sparry home thou dost leave, for
thou wilt be a solace to thy mistress in
many a coming weary hour; and while
she listens- to thy plaintive note, the
tears will stand still upon- the heavy
lids of sorrow, and dreams of home-
that which wasonce her home--will call
up a smile on her faded cheek..
Hester leans against the pedestal
which supports the statue of the wood-
nymph. Here long ago Lewis %Banks
had concealed himself when he entered
the garden by stealth. Her eyes are
fixed on the spot where she well recol-
lects he stood. His .image is before-
her; his coarse little jacket, his heavy
shoes, his fine intellectual face, and his
bold, independent bearing, .all are
present to the gaze of her ardent
imagination. Her arms are listlessly
leant on the smooth surface of their
pedestal; her dress, worn longer nowl
and more closely fitting, displays only
her taper feet, and one of them, during
that abstraction or wandering of the
mind, is raised slowly up and down.
Gone--gone"--said Hester, in a
scarcely audible whisper-" to a distant 
land, they say, where suns are hotter
than they are here, and wars, which hec
delighted to read of,:are continually
raging. But why cannot I forget him?C
Is this bitter regret, this constant wish
to hear of him, to be with him again, I
is this what is termed.-love? I cannot t
tell, and it matters little what it may 
be; I only know that-I dream of him, f
hope for him, pray for him, and that i
nothing in the world will ever cause
me to forget what is past, even if I i
should live to grow old, and he never 
return.-
Child of the early-developed passions

and thoughtful, heart, indulge . thy
young reverie, for those tears are not
tears of anguish which steal silently
down thy cheek! They are sad, yet
the outgushings of atremulous rapture.
Imagination is acutely alive, and can,
paint forthee an ideal paradise yet to
come. Alas! that time and experience
should draw  their clouds over the
beautiful picture,

CHAPTER XX.

BUSY LIFE IN LONDON--ROLAND HARTLEY
VISiTS HIS VIETIMs.
Ir was mid-day in the great metropo-
lis. Life was everywhere; but in some
localities beyond others the stir, the
toil, the energy of animal existence,
made themselves apparent. A tide of *
human beings was pouring through
Fleet-street, chafing arnd-fretting be-
neath the -contracted archways of vene-
rable Temple-bar, sweeping through
the Strand, rushing up and down the
multitudinous streets and   avenues
which branch therefrom, arms : and
tributaries, as it . were, of the great
main current. Then the mighty human
river, having reached Charing-cross,
divided itself into two principal chan-
nels, the one stretching on to West-
minster, and the other flowing up Pall-
mall and Regent-street. All the time,
as in the natural stream an adverse
current frequently sets by the sides,
there was a backward eddy of parties
hurrying in the opposite direction, so
that the motion, turmoil, and general
confusion were incessant.
With the exception of a few loiterers
around the print-shops, -and in front of
small hotels, every one seemed busy on-
his own account. Every man appeared
a strange- to his neighbor. None
cared which - way his fellow  went,
provided he could advance with due
celerity on his own path. Each. indi--
vidual, in short, was a little world in
himself; yes, not one of those countless
heads, thick as "leaves in Vallombrosa,"
but -was a..microcosm, full of hopes,
fears, schemes, and ambitions. His
nterests, his fortunes, were all in all.
,The old and the young seemed alike
nfected with-this, malady of restless-
ness, and to lie under a spell or curse
embodied in the words, "Stay not,
hink not, but press onwards."'

HESTER SOMERSET.

And is it always so? may ask. a
visitor from the country; ay, always,
if we except a very few hours during
the night; and even then this great
thoroughfare is never deserted, for in
those hours abound early marketmen,
police-constables, houseless wanderers,
the drunken returning from their revels,
women of dissolute character, and very-
frequently small armies of paviors and,
sewer-men, who must prosecute their
labor while others are supposed to sleep.
Sunday closes the shop fronts, though
not all, and diminishes the amount of
toil; but still the multitude is there;
the carriage, the many-formed vehicle
for the people, and the pleasure-seekers,
pour along. And thus has it been for
unnumbered years, for ages, no  inter-
mission, no repose, in the great and
ancient metropolitan highway of the
Strand. A busy being, nowstays his
course, and - dies; another takes his
place ; the last hastens by the little
burial-grounds of St. Clement-Dane
and St. Mary-le-Strand, but he thinks
not.of his brother who may rest there.
A generation passes away; a generation
of nep;faces succeeds, as full of activity
and recklessness as that which went
before. Again and again this process'
is repeated. The wheel eternally moves,
..     around. The man of to-day toils, and
earns his money; the past is nothing,
'M      the present to him is everything. He
asks no sympathy, for he seems wholly
unconscious of the perishing nature of
[       things around him, and the;mutability
of his own lot. Philosophy only, like
another Xerxes, surveys the crowd, and
sighs over their inevitable fate.
Emerging from beneath Temple-
bar, and proceeding west, might have
been seen an individual who, though
among the throng, appeared by no
means in that state of excitement and
bustle which affected others.- His step
was slow, but .not listless or loitering.-
Others elbowed him on one side, yet-
he neither resented nor was aware of-
that sometimes   necessary; though=
rather -uncourteous, usage. The jeW
eller's glittering mart, and-the enticing
picture-shop, were alike passed by un-
noticed. His eyes "seemed rather en-
gaged'in counting the flat stones of
the pavement than in ranging over the
divers attractive and-lively scenes by
which he was surrounded.
Yet, the person was not a philan-
thropi'st, or a sage mourning over the
75

57

follies of the human race ; nor'was he
a politician, or great moneyed specula-
tor. We recognize in the man Roland
Hartley: he was pondering on his
favorite theme, congratulating himself
on the success of his plans, and weav-
ing in=his mind the web by which his
revenge, the spider-reptile, was to
capture his victims. To obtain a few
minutes' release from the crowd, he
now passed under one of the heavy
arches which lead into the great court
or area of Somerset House. This vast
pile of Italian architecture, raised by
Sir William Chambers, in 1778,-on the:
site of the Duke of Somerset's palace,
affords a most welcome refuge to the
wayfarer from the noise and tumult of
the Strand. Here he may collect his
thoughts, and meditate in comparative.
quietness ; a. colony of tame pigeons
only will be constantly flying around
him, or perching, perhaps, at his feet,
in expectation of being fed. Hartley
paced before the  numerous public
offices into which the spacious building
is divided ; but dismissing other sub-
jects of reflection, he now yielded to
the promptings of his unreturned and
defeated passion-that. strange endur-
ing love which still burned, like lava,
in his breast ; and then he exulted in
his approaching triumph over his rival
and enemy.
"I will go-1 will linger no longer;
I will once again ravish my eyes with
her fatal beauty. I will address him
kindly, and proffer-yes, a show of
friendship will increase my power over
him tenfold. I will wind around them
both the chain of their destiny ; they'
shall never escape me.''
Such were the thoughts which passed
through Hartley's mind as he quitted
Somerset House, and turned again into
the busy Strand. About twenty mi-
nutes' walking brought him into Pall-
mall; and, passing through St. James's
Square, he knocked ai the door of a
house in Jermyn-street;
"Is Mr. Somerset at home ?" asked
Hartley
'The footman replied in the' affirma-
tive; and, in a few minutes, Hartley
was in the drawing-room-alone.
'he feelings which- for. an instant
crowded upon him we attempt not to
portray. He was in the house of his
foe ; the man whom, by a train of ma-
noeuvres which, he had brooded over
for years, he intended to crush., Gall

"     +{'
_   i " _


58

HESTER SOMERSET-

Jt
e
ar
:
a
T
y't
}*

was in his heart, but honey was now
to distil from hislips. As he thought
of the approaching scene, his brow
darkened and contracted from an uncon-
quered feeling of hatred, and his frame
was agitated, by, the secret passion
which he indulged. - But these out-
ward revealings of-what passed within
were quickly subdued, and he stood
prepared for the part. he resolved to
perform.
Mr. Somerset entered the room. His
surprise at seeing his brother was
great ; but whether the visit were made
with a view of establishing between
them a friendly intercourse suspended
during so many years, or whether Hart-
ley had some unpleasant business to
transact, he was entirely at a loss to
imagine.  A quiet smile overspread
Somerset's face, and seemed the index
of unmistakable kindly feelings ; he did
not, however, extend his hand to Hart-
ley lest the courtesy, as on a former oc-
casion, should not be returned.
"Hugh, hearing that you and your
family have come to town," said Hart-
ley, in a subdued tone of voice, " I
take the liberty of calling on you just
to bid you welcome, and to offer-that
is, if you do not greatly object-any
poor services of mine that might con-
duce towards rendering your . visit
agreeable."
Such friendly -language was so en-
tirely unexpected from  the gloomy
ascetic of the Temple, and from one
who, Somerset had every reason to be-
lieve, regarded him with unmitigated
aversion, that he could only stare on
the speaker without offering any ob-
servation.
"I know," pursued the hypocrite,
"that on many occasions I have ex-
pressed myself, and behaved towards
you, in an unbrotherly manner. But,
believe me, the bitterness of past
days has long ceased:-I perceive my
error, and heartily repent of the hos-
tile feelings once cherished by me. I
am ignorant of your own sentiments,
but I frankly acknowledge I am the
aggressor, and, if not too late, wish
now for reconciliation and peace."
Somerset, though taken by surprise,
did not for an instant doubt the genu-
ineness of Hartley's overtures of friend-
ship; his unsuspecting nature was at
once blinded and deceived, and his
generous? heart subdued; -warmeet.

HESTER SOMERSET.

cited her sympathy, and rendered him
almost an object of interest in her
eyes. Ah! could she have rent away
the shrouding veil, and beheld the
blackness, the hell within that bosom ;
recognized there the friendly spirit that
strove to) hurry on her father to ruin,
that would one day turn her mother's
gentleness into something worse than'
the ravings of anguish, and follow her
own steps in the world with unceasing
persecution, heaping on her head trial
after trial-how would she have shrunk
into herself I while that young fair face,
instead of wreathing with smiles, as
she gazed on the human monster, would
have been blanched with dismay.

emotions filled his bat6in, while his
eyes beamed with unmingled delight.
"Roland ! my brother, my longer
estranged beloved brother !" he cried,
grasping Hartley's hand, " this is grati-
fication indeed ; this is pleasure, the
extent of which I have not words to
describe. You know I loved you yeats
ago, and would have done anything
to repair the sad breach between us.
That [ pardon-no, such a word shall
not be uttered by me-that I love you
still deeply, truly, affectionately, let
the old man's tear (for I am old com-
pared with you), and this embrace bear
witness."
With all the abandonment and frater-
nal fondness of a too trusting heart, he
passed his arm over the shoulder of
Hartley, and leant on his neck. An
enemy entering his rival's country, bent
on hostility but feigning peace ; a Judas
saluting with a kiss while resolving to
betray ; a coiled-up serpent counterfeit-
ing sleep when meditating only the
fatal spring-such was Hartley in his
brother's house.
Mr. Somerset, impelled    by  the
warmth of his feelings, called his wife,
who quickly appeared ; Hester, too,
with her lithe airy figure, presently
tripped into the room. Isabella had
never credited in times past the
statements of Hartley; she believed
his disposition essentially depraved,
subtlety,hardness ofheart, and agloomy
moroseness appearing to her its lead-
ing characteristics. With the intuitive
quickness and penetration of her sex,.
she half saw now through the disguise
he had assumed.   That her husband-
had long ardently desired to be recon-
ciled to his brother was well known to
her, therefore it would have given her
great pain to have raised obstacles, and
become a bar between them. Feeling
this, she returned the greeting of Hart-
ley with as much cordiality as she was
able to show ; yet, as his searching
eyes were bent upon her, and his
fevered hand touched hers, a shudder
crept through herframe, while astrange
sense of fear, like a presentiment of
coming evil, oppressed her heart.
Hester did not share her mother's
feelings, but responded to the welcome
of her father's brother with the frank
and open spirit peculiar to the young.
She regarded him as unfortunate, and
the victim of some secret and unex-
plained sorrow; indeed this belief ex-

MR. SOMERSET AT THE STOCK EXCHANGE--
THE CONFIDENTIAL DINNER.
Ir was a busy day on the Stock Ex-
change. A great fluctuation prevailed
in the prices of stocks,.,and the prices
of all manner of shares in the foreign
mines, canals, and other public com-1
panies which had recently sprung into
existence.
Bartholomew-lane was alive with
human beings, all in quick motion.
Here, speculators, face. to face, were
eagerly debating ; there, brokers, with
slips of paper in their hands, were
running to their respective offices in'
the neighborhood, and anon hurrying
back again. Men, becoming thirsty
through excitement, were rushing to
the- coffee-houses around- the corner,
calling for soda-water and lemonade,
and then, like the brokers, returning
to the scene of action.
The entrance of Capel-court, in Bar-
tholomew-lane-and Capel-court is the
stronghold of the jobbers, members of
the Stock Exchange only having access
to the spacious building at the further
end-the entrance strikingly resembled
the aperture of a beehive when beaten
by a stick, and all the honeyed inhabit-
ants rush out, and round about, hum-
ming in curiosity and alarm. Only to
have gazed upon that crowd of eager,
bustling men, would have been suffi-
cient to give an indifferent spectator,
the vertigo, and he might, at least,
have imagined that the fate of king-
doms depended upon the result of their

59

proceedings. Then the divers passions
making themselves visible in the ex
pression of men's countenances and the
motion of their bodies : here suspense,
as the value of-shares fluctuated, might
be read in quivering lips, the contraction
of muscles, and the unceasing restless-
ness and trembling of limbs. There,
as some good bargain was struck, ex-
ultant joy flashed forth in sparkling
eyes, in the brisk rubbing together of
hands, and the bold throwing back of
heads. Anon, as certain stocks fell,
in which some unhappy holders had
staked their all, white faces, set'teeth,
and clenched hands, betrayed the in-
ward struggle of exasperation and die-
spair.
Such was the picture which this
great theatre of insane speculation dis-
played a short time previously to the
memorable commercial panic of 1825.
And whose gray head is that among
the crowd in Capel-court? He is not
noisy ; he seldom speaks, but he watches
the proceedings, and listens to the float-
ing rumors with intense eagerness. He
changes his position with feverish anx-
iety, and frequently walks' away to
the office of a certain broker in the
neighborhood, to give, - perhaps, in-
structions as to the shares which that
gentleman shall purchase for him ; but
speedily he returns.  Now he -looks
through his spectacles, now over them;
smiles joyously, but the next moment'
frowns; and then he takes off his hat
to wipe away, with his silk handker-
chief, the great drops of perspiration
which the excitement of the occasion
has drawn out on his forehead.
Mr. Somerset, led on by degrees, and
yielding little by little, had now fairly
delivered himself up to the Tempter.
The passion of younger days, long
kept, in subjection or in a state of
torpidity, had revived, and in that re-
snscitation acquired a tenfold energy.
Not content with joining a few comh-
panies, he bought shares in almost half
the schemes brought into the market.
To raise money for the purchase, and
to pay the consequent "calls," he had,
unknown to his wife, sold out his family
stock, and even mortgaged' his estate
of Brookland Hall. The course he was
pursuing was ruinous-frightful; and
yet, all the time, he never entertained.
the slightest doubt of realizing in the
issue a large fortune.
There was another individual well

.        +s-'Mac   -                      __                y  r-- t      n- r-.wv7r..n :.w+a.rv.? r"fr 7 +r+wrw           +"  -                               i.r                                          °                                 -

CHAPTER XXL

'I


60

HESTER SOMERSET.

known to us among 4hat crowd. Mr.
Pike was in the court among the Jews,
busily at work. His sharp eyes con-
stantly followed the movements of Mr,
Somerset. Unobserved by the latter,
he dogged him everywhere-his evil
genius, his. Mephistophiles. Mr. Pike
had still one object in view. Assisted-
in his task by several Jews, who, for a
small remuneration, agreed to abet him,
he endeavored, by circulating good ac,-
counts of certain American mines or
Spanish bonds, to induce Mr. Somerset
to purchase in the same : then, as soon
as-he ascertained he had done so, the
tables were reversed; for he and his
Jews ran about, as if intelligence had
only that instant arrived, deploring the
failure of the gold veins, the vanishing
of the silver lodes, and the complete
bankrupt condition of the Spanishna-
tion. By means like these, such was
the feverish, state of the times, prices
rose and fell to so great an extent that
it was no uncommon thing for parties
to gain or losethousands in an hour.
Mr. Somerset that day, through the in-
defatigable but unsuspected exertions
of Pike and his Hebrews, lost, four.
thousand pounds,!
The money-market was over ; the
doors of the inner pandemonium were.
closed, and the crowd was gone.,
We must enter a gay-looking mansion
at the west end of the town. There
were footrien with powdered heads,
and men out of livery-; , there was
elegant:furniture; there were statues
and valuable paintings-everything
bespoke luxury and wealth.,
The master ofthehouse had finished
his; dinner, and;was seatedover his
wine, in company with one friend.
The face of Mr. Abercrombie, natu-
raly broad and f orid, was flushed with
the good cheer of whieb he.had par-
takgen, Even the thin:sallow, visage of
Mr.Pike: had caught, in.its ext me
points, a -slight rosy tint,, So seldom
did the latter gentleman afford himself
a good dinner, that the one he bad just,
eaten had, caused his impeverished-
blood to circulate in anunusualmanner
throughhis withered veins.
The ex-cheesemonger, the great direc-
tor of the famous Diamond Company of
Brazil, had been remarkablyconle-
scending and affable in his communica-
tions with Mr. Pike, whose sagacity
he daily appreciated. They had talked
much during the dinner; but now the

hearts-of both being opened by the
generous wines, their conversation was
less reserved, and they imparted to
each other- their secrets in, the most
trusting manner possible. Mr. Aber-
crombie, resting both his elbows on the
table, and leaning towards Pike, looked
inquiringly into his face.
"So you don't think he can be induced
to venture another five thousand, do
you?"
"Impossible; he; is in difficulties,
already-his.estate is mortgaged. You
must be content with the ten thousand
you have already gained of his money."
"Good; but I've only ninety thou-
sand pounds in my hands. However,.
this sum  is better than nothing. I
wish, Pike, you would accompany me
to the other side of the water."
"No, I thank you.. I would rather
keep the little I possess snugly at
home,,than surround*myself with lux-
uries in a foreign. land."
"Well, every man to his taste* I
like display ; it's my hobby, and I
don't wish to hoard."
"You'll pay me the two thousand=too
morrow."
" Certainly; that is, when you have.,
obtained, my passports, and we have
laid everything in right train."
"Leave that business to me," said
Mr. Pike. "Of course I do nothing
wrong in assisting you tofget off, since,
if youdid not take this money, the
other directors most certainly would.
I consider you the most worthy man
of the 'board,' and therefore entitled,
on moral-grounds, to-carry off the cash
in preference to your fellows. This is,
mysview of the case," added-the law;
yer; "this seems to me equity and jus-
tice."
Mr. Abercrombie -smiled a pleasant.
smile, and, filling his. glass,. winked
and nodded his large bead-several.
times, for agreeable thoughts-werepass.
ing. through his brain.,
"I'll give you a toast, Pike.-.' Blind",
ness to my brother directors, and con.
fusion to the Great Diamond Company..
of Brazil and Gold-Dust Association of
South, Africa 'P
Mr. Pike's parchment face exhibited
a broad grin. Hetdrank the toast, and,
presently, in a whisper; proposed one
himself.--.
" Here's to your safe arrival with the
money on the other side of the- chan-
nel "

HESTER SOMERSET.

Thank you, Pike," said Abercrom-!
bie ; and they filled their glasses, and
drank-again, saying divers other pleas-
ant things, and indulging in many hap-
py jests.

CHAPTER XXII.

THE RUINED SPECULATOR.
MR. SoMERsET, in great nervous ex-
citement, was poring ove1r the morning
papers. They might inform -him  of
something which possibly had transpir-
ed in the city,-since he-left on the after-
noon of the preceding day.
A few months spent in that inces-
sant change from hope to disappoint-
ment, from success to failure, conse-
quent onppeculation, had deepened the
wrinkles on his forehead, and added
considerably to his gray hairs. Pro-,
ject after project, in which he had en-,
gaged had burst like bubbles. Foreign
loans and Mexican mines had alike to
him proved ruinous affairs. He seemed
fated never to turn up a fortunate card.
Still he clung with desperate tenacity,
like -a wrecked seaman embracing a
floating spar, to all of hope which was
left him ; and chiefly that hope was
placed on the Great Diamond Company
of Brazil.
We saw Mr, Somerset, on one occa-
sion, busily engaged in calculating
what his gains might be; now the pro-
cess was reversed-he was counting his
losse l     -
The money raised by the sale of his
stock was absorbed; the advance for
which his house and lands stood mort-
gaged had melted away, He could not
command another hundred pounds in
the world; and--harrowing thought
for an honest and fond heart-his wife
and child knew nothing yet of the state
of his affairs. On the contrary, the
elated spirits which he usually dis-
played in their presence led them to
conclude that high success attended, his
undertakings.
-Newspapers and price-currents drop-
ped from his trembling hands. The
gray-headed ifian leant back in his chair
and sighed. He thought of Brookland
Hall, and the quiet pursuits he once
followed there. He compared that
life with the turbulent scenes amid
which he had passed the last six'
months. And what .was the reward

61

for the sacrifice he had made ?-what
the result of his toil? Must they be
utter ruin? No ! he would not yet
yield, he would not despair. The altar
of hope still burned, and he would feed
it with the oil of perseverance.
"These large shares in the Diamond
Company of Brazil will retrieve all,"
he said to himself. " The concern must
succeed ; the profits must be very great.
Abercrombie is a shrewd man, a man
of powerful intellect. I am glad he is
at the head of the 'board'  No, I'll
not sell my shares. The profits of the
first year, unless I am very greatly mis-
taken, will enable me to reinvest the
old amount of stock, and, perhaps,
purchase back Brookland Hall."
He rose from his seat reassured, his
usual firmness returned, and a bright
smile took the place of the recent cloud
of sorrow on his brow. About half an
hour passed, during which he was in-
dulging in happy reveries, when a ser-
vant knocked at the door, and delivered
to him a note, brought, he said,,by a
messenger from the city. Eagerly Mr.
Somerset opened it, for the handwriting
was that of his broker, and, as the ser-
vant retired, he read as follows:-
"Sin-It is my painful duty to in-
form you of a fact only this morning
come to light. Mr. Abercrombie, the
chairman of the 'Great Diamond.Com-
pany of Brazil and Gold-Dust Associa-
tion of South Africa,' had been absent
from the office for the last, three days
on account, it was stated, of indisposi-
tion. ('Poor fellow 1' said Somerset;
'J am sorry for it ; I'll go and-see him.")
It now appears, on the other directors
opening the strong-bdx to pay into
their bankers all bills and moneys ad-
vanced to the company, they find the
said box entirely empty. On applica-
tion at the bankers, they likewise find
that Abercrombie, who had power to
draw checks with one countersign, has
swept away and cleared the whole ac-
count. In short, it has been ascer-
tamed, beyond the shadow of a doubt,
that the said Abercrombie has de-
camped with the company's entire
effects. He obtained passports to the
continent under a false name ; pursuit
is considered useless, since the authori-
ties abroad will not give him  ups;
therefore the remaining directors, being
insolvent, have closed their offices, and
the ' Great Diamond Company of Brazil

'L'k .x ^.4 ± 11r ?!#M7Qi0YY01sli

,      --    -_,.e   ,.


HESTER SOMERSET.

and Gold-Dust Association of Sout]
Africa' has ceased to exist.
"Your very obedient servant,
"ISAAC BEN SAMUEL."
Like a man suddenly overpowere
by some deadly intoxicating liquid
like a duellist who receives his antago
nist's ball in his heart, so Mr. Somer
set staggered, still holding the fata
letter in his grasp. He endeavored t
support himself by leaning his weigh
on both his hands upon the table. H
did not utter an exclamation or even a
groan. His heart was riven with an
anguish which had no words. The
shock had caused a vertigo, which
every moment increased until all ideas
were obliterated from his brain.. He
gave one wild stare around him, and
then the unhappy schemer, the less
criminal than thoughtless, the man
irremediably ruined, sank insensible
on the floor.

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE ANGLER ENSNARES HIS PREY.

BLESSINGS On the forgiving heart of
woman! She may feel mueh, upbraid
much, and weep long, when suddenly
plunged, by the errors of those she loves,
from happiness or wealth, into the gulf
of misery and poverty. Yet soon does
the harshness soften away, the tear
dry up, and she is ready to soothe, in-
stead of to ask consolation herself;
ready to -battle with fate, and face the
pitiless storm of fortune, forgetting her
former luxuries and "dainty estate,"
all but -her affection, whether that af-
fection warm the bosom of the wife,
the mother, or the child.
Mr. Somerset was supported in the
arms of Isabella and Hester. They
had heard from his lips the confession
of his mad, deeds, and the tale of his
ruin. They knew Brookland Hall was
no longer their home, and that they
were reduced to poverty, perhaps ab-
solute want. Yet natural feelings of
anguish were forgotten in their regard
and anxiety for him they loved ; and
M. Somerset, instead of being bitterly
reproached, as he expected, instead of
beholding them borne down by a flood
of unavailing sorrow, received condole-
ment at their hands. Such a return

h 'for his;folly increased his love, but, at
the same time, deepened his-remorse.
Somerset was a man of high honor
and stern principle ; he was therefore
resolved to meet all his liabilities, and
d settle his affairs in a straightforward
, manner. Convinced of his errors, he
- would withdraw  entirely from  the'
vortex of speculation, and gain his liv-
1 ing by'his own endeavors in some
o honest way.
t   One evening, as. he was arranging
e his accounts, and pondering on the
probable manner in which he should
now earn his bread, Roland Hartley
entered his room. There was a singu-
lar expression on the face of the latter;
a deep studier of the human physiog-
nomy might have been baffled in his
aim to read the perplexing page it pre-
sented. There was an endeavor to
tranquillize and soften the hard fea-
tures, as if the spirit felt sorrow' and
sympathy ; yet a sneer half wreathed
the lip, and the heart within, bounding
with exultation, sent a fiery light into
the eje.
"Roland, I am glad you have called,"
said Somerset, rising. " I want much
to consult with you. Come, I am aware
you know of my losses. I don't wish
to make a secret of my position, at
least to you. In a word, Roland, you
see before you a ruined man !"
'KNot so; not quite so, I hope," ob-
served the hypocritical Hartley.
"Yes, a mad dreamer-a man who
weakly yielded to temptation, and who
now reaps the harvest of his deeds in
misery and disgrace."
" Do not despond: something must
be done."
"True, something shall be done.
I will pay every penny that I owe."
Hartley moved uneasily, and knit
his brow, but he instantly checked
himself. If Somerset, indeed,, paid
" every penny," he should be cheated
of half of his revenge.
" Excellent ! I am delighted. Then
you think you can discharge all your
liabilities ? " You are quite sure of this
-" added Hartley, endeavoring to
lead his brother on.
" Why, I will do it. The truth is, I
have delivered up Brookland Hall to
the mortgagee ; the struggle. was a
hard one; but--but---" stammered the
poor man, "it can't be helped. I have
since, with my remaining property, met
every claim except--"

"Except--" repeated Hartley, look- not worth a straw.  The coveted op
ing keenly at Somerset from beneath his portunity presented itself-the wished
bushy brows.                       for moment had arrived,. He might
" Except one debt."              now place Somerset entirely in his
"Which you can discharge ?"      power, and the sacrifice would not be
"No, I can't; that is, not imme- great. - Gladly would he sink the five
diately. I wish I could."          hundred and fifty pounds to be the
Hartley again was enabled to breathe holder of a slip of paper bearing Som-
freely.                         -  erset's acceptance: the time would
"I wish I could," repeated Somerset. come when the latter, cut off from all
"I have balanced my accounts, I have means of discharging the amount,would
expended all my money, and still I owe lie at his mercy, and then
one man   "                         " Hugh ! make yourself easy. I
"How much ?"                     happen just now to have the sum you
"Not much; and yet I cannot by name idle at my banker's-consider it
any possibility raise the sum. This at your service."
creditor is beginning to grow impatient, The poor man knew not how to ex-
and to press me. Oh ! Roland, Ro- press his gratitude. He wrung Hartley's
land! I have a great horror of a prison; hand, thanked him again and again,
and yet I feel assured that, unless I and called him his preserver, the good
discharge almost instantly this last genius who had come to save him from
remaining debt, a prison must be my the horrors of a prison. = Somerset
portion."                         forthwith obtained the proper legal
I Hartley walked slowly away, repeat- stamp, wrote out a promissory note,
ing, half unconsciously, to himself, and which bound himself to pay Hartley
dwelling long upon the words-" A the sum of five hundred and fifty pounds
prison-a prison !" He then abruptly in six months from that time. Hart-
turned back, and looked inquiringly ley, in return for this, tendered him
into Somerset's face.              his check for immediate payment.
"The debt, you say, is not large, Never, perhaps, before did a man re-
and it is your last liability-your very  'ive knowingly bad paper for good
last."                             with such heartfelt pleasure. Being
"Yes, this obligation met, I shall sure that his brother would never be
be quite free; a man without a shilling, able to discharge the sum, hefelt, while
but a man who owes nothing. Roland" buttoning up his coat, that within the
-he took his brother by the hand, and small compass of his pocket-book he
continued in a low, beseeching tone of held, so to speak, entire control over
voie-" you are the only being I can the destiny of his enemy.
apply to in the present strait. Save
me from a prison!   You would not
behold me within the walls of a .pri-
son !"  ,                                  CHAPTER XXIV.
Hartley remained silent. The fall-
ing lids of his eyes concealed the fire THE RUINED GENTLEMAN'S RETREAT--THE
of joy that burned within them.              BASE OVERTURE.
"I do not ask this money as a gift.
Lend it to me for six months."       MR. SOMERSET was one of those few
Hartley continued thoughtful: he men who soon accommodate them-
spoke at length. "You have not told selves to circumstances. He did not
me the- amount; it may not be in my continue brooding in unavailing sorrow
power to oblige you."  .           over his ruined fortunes.  Knowing
"The sum is only five hundred and that every struggle to regain his lost
fifty pounds. A party is indebted to position would be in vain, he consider-
me as much, but cannot pay me for six ed-it his duty instantly to adopt some
months."                           means by which he might be enabled
"Ha! then people owe you money ?" to obtain bread for his family. Cheer-
" I wish they did, Roland. This fully and energetically he applied him-
party, Velasquez,the Spanish merchant self to the task. Mr. Somerset was a
in Broad-street, is the only person in scholar, and had read much ; better
the world from whom I expect money." still, just at that moment he was well
Now Velasquez, Hartley knew, was versed in the politics of the day. With

63

62

HESTER SOMERSET.

iC


64

HESTER SOMERSET..

some difficulty, through the interest of
a friend, he obtained an engagement as
a contributor to the columns of an
evening paper. His talents and his
industry were appreciated, and he was
shortly appointed to a permanentsitua-
tion in the newspaper-office.
Mr. Somerset took a small house, or
rather cottage, in the suburbs of Lon-:
don, at the very moderate rent of twenty
pounds per annum. Here Isabella and
Hester domiciled  themselves.  The
contrast of this cottage in the Holloway-
road, with its four little windows in
front, and -patch of garden, six yards
square, to their late residence of Brook-
land Hall, might be very striking, but
the wife, as was natural to expect, felt
the  difference far more than the
daughter.  The happy heart -of the
young does not continue bowed down
by misfortune; thoughts of sorrow and
regret, like birds of passage, never with
them remain long, and their fancy in-
vests the rudest scenes with the beauty
reflected from their own sunny souls.
Hester's busy hand soon garnished
their little home. Within and without,
the cottage bore evidence of her taste
and her industry. Flower-pots lined the
short walk from the garden-gate to the
doorway;.the clematis wreathed around
and hung its white bells over the lower
windows ; there, too, the canary-bird,
the only relic left to her of Brookland
Hall, enjoyed the sun.
When Mr. Somerset returned in the
evening, after the publication of the
paper, warm was the welcome he re-
ceived. Hester's wild fervent kiss, and
Isabella's quiet embrace, repaid him
for allihis toil. They, at least, in word,
act, or seeming, never caused him to
regret the luxuries and the wealth he
had forfeited. His mind, long tossed
by anxieties, grew serene. Happiness
had not yet for him-like the aerial]
forms of the Greek poet, scared from
earth by Guilt and Misery-winged
her flight back to heaven. 'The divine
presence of Love hallowed that humble
home, and therefore Joy could not flee
away.
Two circumstances only raised at
times uneasy sensations in the breast
of Somerset. Hester informed him that,
daring his absence at the offitte, she
had frequently observed a man lurking
around the house, and peering, with
an extraordinary degree of curiosity,
ever the garden rails. His object was

evidently to watch the' movements of
the inmates. She described him as a
small, thin man, with scanty red Fhair.
The same individual, she had learnt,
had been making inquiries respecting
them at some of the houses in the
neighborhood. Hester once suddenly
came upon him sitting behind the
holly hedge, where he had been watch-
ing, it seemed, for a considerable time.
She asked him what he wanted, but he
returned no answer, leaping actively
up, and darting away.
- Who was the man? and what was
his purpose ? Neither Hester nor her
mother had seen Pike, when he called
at 'Brookland Hall in company with
Mr. Abercrombie, and thus they were
unable to identify the present intruder.
Whether he were a-thief, a speculator
with whom Mr. Somerset might have
had former dealings, or an enemy having
some secret design upon them, the fact
of their being so watched caused them
all, we repeat, not a little uneasiness.
The other circumstance alluded to
was connected with the loan of money
made to Mr. Somerset by his brother.
True, every debt, but this one, was
liquidated, and Hartley, when the bill
should fall due, might not, so Somerset
thought, demand immediate payment.
Still he owed the amount, and the
merchant, on whom he :depended for
just a similar sum, might fail him in
the hour of need.
Thus were they situated, contented
in their altered circumstances, and
happy, but for the -drawbacks above
named. Hartley's visits at the cottage
had been frequent of late, so that one
morning, when he entered the house,
his appearance excited no surprise.
Mr. Somerset, as Hartleywell knew, was
absent at the newspaper office ; Hester,
also, chanced to be from home. Hart-
ley, then, was shown by the servant
girl into the parlor. - His business,
he said, was rather important; but
since the girl's master was absent, he
would speak with her mistress. Mrs.
Somerset, being informed of this, did
hot hesitate a moment to see the visitor,
and notwithstanding a little .reserve
and embarrassment, she   addressed
Hartley with that mildness and com-
posure of manner peculiar to her ; she
was friendly for her husband's sake,
and endeavored to hide those feelings
of mistrust and fear which secretly
agitated her breast.

HESTER SO  ER'SET.

65

Hartley, generally so cold and col- moment. Hester, I know, is perfectly
lected in his demeanor, had, strange to happy. This, then, being the case, I
say, lost his assurance. He raised his feel that you- will not-that is, if the
eyes to Isabella's face, fixed them 'for a merchant withholds from Mr. Somerset
moment -upon :her, and then turned the sum which would enable himto
them away as if in pain. , Neither did discharge the debt to yourself--I feel
-he speak; perhaps he was unable,'from  you will'not be urgent for immediate
-some secret emotion, to do so: 'but he payment."
drew a chair towards Mrs. Somerset,   "The city merchant to whom   you
-who seated herself, not a little affected allude, madam,-is a bankrupt. He 'is
by curiosity and surprise. *        in the Gazette thismorning," said Hart-
We have said that Isabella, being ley, unable entirely to mask the exulta-
much younger than her husband, was -tion which he-felt.
.still remarkably handsome.  In her    The poor wife, who was so deeply in-
general manner she was quiet and un- terested in the affairs of her husband,
obtrusive, but beneath a calm exterior started from her seat ; she clasped her
-slumbered feelings and passions which, hands, and uttered an exclamation; but
when roused, were strong, fervent, and a faintness oppressing her, she sank
not easily -governed. Her character. again into her chair.
was compounded of very opposite ele- "Hugh ! Hugh! !my poor husband !"
ments ; she could love warmly, resist she exclaimed,. in a low, distressed
firmly, and hate also.              voice. ".You were born to misfortune.
"Your business, perhaps, is with Everything seems to conspire to your
Mr. Somerset ?" she said at length.  undoing !"
" No--yes,"  stammered   Hartley.   While Isabella thus yielded to the
Again he paused; but the next minute, agitation of the feelings, Hartley did
by a strong effort, he gained command not take his eyes from 'her face. His
of himself. "I had intended to say own countenance expressed no compas-
something to Somerset respecting a sion, no anxiety, no pain.
promissory note of his which I hold."  " How will he bear the intelligence?"
Hartley fixed his penetrating eyes pursued Isabella. " He must hear of
on Isabella ; the latter visibly trembled, it to-day. But be assured, Roland, you
while the blood forsook her cheek.  shall-not lose your money. .Give us
"That bill-that unfortunate bill !" time, and - all shall  eventually be -paid
-she faltered. "But it is quite right ; to you."
he is indebted to you for the amount;  "Time !-time 1" observed Hartley,
and you were very kind in making with a meaning look.
the advance at-the time-it saved him,  "Yes. To be plain with you, my
Roland, from a prison."          .  husband's salary does not exceed nine-
"I did not mean to have alluded to ty pounds a year."
this transaction ; or, at least, to have "Little, indeed, on which to keep this
troubled you with any remark about cottage, and support a wife and daugh-
irksome money affairs. I merelycalled ter."
to apprise Somerset that the bill is " We must assist him. Pride shall
nearly due, lest he might overlook or not interfere with duty. Hester is now
forget the circumstance."           taking lessons in needlework at a
" Oh! n'o; he has not overlooked or dressmaker's in the neighborhood."
forgotten it. But, Roland-" Isabel-   " Is she ?" exclaimed Hartley, with a
la's tremors increased, her lip quivered, disdainful'sneer,
and she spoke in'half-gasped sentences, "We will payyou the sum by instal-
"this is the only debt he now owes. He ments, ,so much every year, or every
goes on cheerfully, though the toil is quarter ; but give us time, I repeat.
great in the newspaper-office. His sa- Oh, do not press for an instant settle-
lary is small, 'but perhaps it will be in- ment!"
creased.. We have a comfortable little  "Isabella, I thought you knew me.
home here, and are quite reconciled to I am not mercenary. I despise the
the change in our position."        grovelling miser too supremely to 'in-
" Not quite reconciled, I think. For- dulge in an act of oppression for the
give me."                           mere sake of gain, or even of avoiding
"I hope so. I stifle-any regret that a loss.  Nevertheless, you are aware
nay chance to arise in an unguarded that if the bill Ihold is not immediately

n A

ii

'

- ip,

_              ,     j',.
_''
;


66

HESTER SOMERSET.

discharged on its becoming due, So- listen to me. - I am driven to despera-
merset lies at my mercy. I can impri- tion, and the acts of one in my condi-
son him, not only for a year, but, if no tion may be fearful. I thus bare my
friend should make hin a present of heart and humiliate myself before you,
the money, for the remainder of his for I am at once your slave, and yet the
life-s                              master of your destiny. Live still with
Isabella-shuddered.               Somerset, if you must; but, oh ! tell
Such is the law of debtor and credit- me not that you love him ; each ex-
or at present. , Perpetual confinement, pression of fondness will only deepen
to a man like Somerset, would, I am for him the strength of my hate. Jea-
aware, be a fearful thing."         lousy and despair have made me what
"But you will not. exercise your I am. But I must not weary you.
power?" cried Isabella, stooping for- Permit me to love you--to breathe my
wards in her chair, pale and breathless. vows near you; and when, dearest Isa-
You will have mercy ?"             bella, you shall be convinced of the
"Hear me," said Hartley,' with a depth and truth of my devotion, then
firm, unwavering voice. "I shall un- let me hope, let me dream that some-
der no circumstances consent to receive thing like a return-"
the money little by little. I shall either He had seized her hand, and dropped
forgive Somerset the debt altogether, on one knee ; but the kiss of pollution
or enforce prompt payment of. the which he sought to impress upon that
whole. I shall be guided in my deci- hand awoke her from   the tate of-
sion by the part you may bepleased to stupefied. surprise into which, for the
act. In a word, Somerset's fate is in moment, she had been thrown. With
your hands."                        a sudden start, Isabella drew backward
"In my hands ? Impossible ! How ?" like one stung by a viper. Disdain
The overhanging brow of Hartley swelled her bosom; her features were
grew smooth ; his evil eyes suddenly flushed, and her eyes sparkled. Then
softened, and within their large, lurid the virtuous soul blazed out, reckless of
pupils there was an expression not consequences.
easily to be defined--a struggling of  "What mean you? what ask you ?-
deep love with natural bitterness, and Hold you, then, so lightly the marriage-
the burning of a passion which neither vow ? Is there no difference, in your
philosophy had been able -to stifle, nor easy creed, between vice and virtue ?
long years to mitigate in its intensity. -between fidelity and falsehood ?-
Isabella instinctively shrank from his Man, had I given you encouragement,
gaze, stooping her head: but no blush you might address me thus. It is not
covered her wan countenance.       ,so. Leave me, and never again insult
" Do not misunderstand me !" he ex- my ear with language like that you
claimed. "Be patient ; bear with me. have used."
Let me disclose, once and for all, the  Hartley betrayed no impatience, or
locked-up secret of my soul. I loved irritation. He slowly drew from  his
you many years ago, Isabella; you re- pocket a slip of paper, and, holding it
ejected me for another. The pang of in his hand, spoke calmly, laying a pe-
disappointment has rankled in my culiar emphasis on each word.
heart, turning all its blood to gall. I " Remember ! decide not rashly; re-
thought I had subdued my passion ; fuse me not without due consideration.
but I am mistaken, Unchilled by ab- I have here a terrible power which the
sence, unweakened by time, uncon- law gives me. This paper will enable
quered, unconquerable, that passion me to blight all Somerset's fortunes, to
remains the same. It poisons my soli- separate him from you, to thrust him
tary hours ; it clings to me like a curse. into a noisome jail, and hold him there
And yet the dream is happiness. In -ay, to his dying day. Love me; al-
its very hopelessness it is dearer than low me to be near you; in short, grant
all other fancies, more prized than all me what I have already asked ; and the
other joys."                        document I hold I tear into a thousand
"Roland, .you are mad !" said Isa- pieces, and cancel niy claim forever !"
bella, rising.                        He looked steadfastly at Isabella, ex-
"Perhaps I am--stay ; do not leave peeting an answer. She was in a state
me--hear me out ; for your husband's of agitation not to be described. Two
sake, for his welfare, I adjure you to pictures presented themselves to her

HESTER SOMERSET.

mind-her own dishonor and her hus-
band's impending fate. That Somerset
would be in Hartley's power, she could
not doubt for a moment. To avert his
doom, then, must, she sink her-soul in
infamy?   Virtue, womanhood forbade
it. On the other hand,,too weak and
timid affection pointed at the sacrifice.
The villanous Hartley still whispered
his unhallowed   tale, and  Isabella
moved backwards, pale and affrighted.
Then, as if her mind were overpowered,
or she had taken a resolution, she
sank upon her knees.
"Roland ! Roland ! have pity 'upon
me I" she cried, raising her clasped
hands in supplicating agony. "How
can you love me, and yet feel a pleasure
in causing me torture? Were I to
consent to your base proposal, were I
even to fly with you, do you suppose I
could ever be happy again?  Do you
think Somerset would wish to avoid a
prison by such a means? You know
not his character, and you are ignorant
of me, if you imagine this. Oh! awake
to a sense of what is right, abandon
your evil designs, think no more of a
miserable being like myself, and I will
forget all that has passed. Be merci-
ful to Somerset, nor plunge him into
deeper misery than the trials he has
already known. I ask you not tocan-
cel the debt, but consent to receive it by
degrees. Listen to this appeal! pity
my tears! No, no, you will not, Ro-
land, doubly ruin your brother and
break my heart !"
As she ceased, Hartley observed a
profound silence. He did not stoop to
raise her from the floor, but regarded
her with a freezing air. He crossed his
arms on his breast, and his head gra-
dually sank until' his eyes, beneath the
projecting brow, were entirely unseen.
Whatever passed in his mind, it was
not divulged ; yet no softening of the
features denoted that he felt the slight-
est sympathy with the sorrows of Isa-
bella. He stood there, as far removed
from allthe warmer and gentler human
feelings as an effigy of wax or a statue
cast in iron. -
"This is useless, madam. 'Be calm,
Y beg of you. Your ravings affect me
not. The time of chivalry and romance
for me is. over. You refuse to accept
my love., Be it so." A fierceness was
now stealing into his abrupt manner,
and the serpent was beginning to un-
coil itself. "Nevertheless," he added,

"I am firm in this ; if I cannot have
my love, I must have my-revenge 1"
"Your -revenge !" - cried: Isabella,
rising, and drawing herself proudly
up. " Have you not seen us suffer sufil-
ciently already ? Is not your revenge
satisfied yet?"
" No," said Hartley, between his
teeth; "not yet. Why, Somerset, in
spite of his losses, is getting contented
again, serene, even happy ; while I-
no-matter; this quiet life of his must
be changed. But blame me not, ma-
dam; rather thank yourself for the fate
which awaits him."
Hartley moved towards the door for
the purpose of leaving the room.
"Stay !" cried Isabella, still seeking
to avert the calamity from her husband.
"Will nothing move you?--no promise,
no humiliation, no sacrifice ?"
" You are acqTinted with the con-
ditions."
"Then Heaven help Somerset, and
protect me !" The woman's pride was
risingin her heart, and fear was giving
place to the firmness of virtuous recti-
tude. She slowly turned, and pointed
at the~ door-" Go 1-leave this room
-leave our humble cottage; you have
yet to learn that some, though losing
all of this world's wealth, are rich still
in honesty and honor. Go, sir !-do
your worst. Somerset and his family
will not stain their reputation, come
beggary- come imprisonment-come
death !"
Hartley, with a sullen air, strode
away, breathing inwardly a curse upon
the occupiers of that house, and resolv-
ing never to relax in his efforts, but to
go forward and "work out his vow."
Isabella, now left aloe, found that
high stern spirit, which had supported
her in the hour of need, gradually for-
sake her. The terrible fate which hung
over her husband filled her with dis-
may. Already fancy painted to her
mind's eyethe horrors of a prison; she
saw him there,' pining, wasting away,
his energies crushed, and his proud
spirit brought low.  With both her
hands she covered her face, as iflto shut
out the appalling picture; yet she shed
no tears: there is an anguish which
cannot sigh-which cannot weep.

:   _
..   -_
; ,_  'r
.. '.
"_,


68

HESTER SOMERSET.

CHAPTER XXV.

THE LAW DOES ITS WORK.

UNWILLING to inflict another pang
on her husband, Isabella did not ac-
quaint him with the insulting conduct
of Hartley. She would rather for him
to imagine that the unnatural brother
was- swayed by mercenary motives,
than the motives which in reality influ-
enced him. That Hartley's determina-
tion remained unaltered soon became
evident: the bill had been placed in the
hands of a banker, and on the day it fell
due waspresented by a clerk in the
usual manner. A notary-public, also,
in the evening made his appearance at
the cottage, demanding why-and where-
fore the bill was refused payment, and
duly " noting" the -same as dishonored.
Somerset wrote to his brother, but
received no answer. In a few days,
however, the following letter reached
him through'the post:-
"Sin--I have had the honor to receive
instructions from Mr. Hartley, of the
Temple, to address you on the subject
of a promissory note of yours, for five
hundred and fifty pounds, of ,which he
is the holder. He is surprised that the
said promissory note, being due, and
having been properly presented at your
house, should remain in his hands un-
paid.  I beg, therefore, to call your
immediate attention to the subject;
and if the said promissory note be not
immediately taken up and covered,
with the notarial. charges, the aforesaid
bolder, Mr. Hartley, will be compelled
promptly and instantly to adopt such
measures as the law authorizes and
directs.
"Ihave the honor to be, your obe-
dient servant,
JEREMIAH PIIE.
"Er6wn's Buildings, St. Mary-Axe."
" Pike-Pike!" said Mr. Somerset,
with blanched lips, as the letter fell
from his hand-; "why this is the man
who accompanied Abererombie, when
that villain called on me at Brookland
Hall.  Strange, at all events, that.
Hartley should employ such a low
rascal for his attorney."
" Pike is the name," said Hester,
" written on the back of the letter which
I found in our garden, near the holly-
hedge, where the strange man hadheen
lurking."

" Extraordinary !" observed Mr. So-
merset  " What could Hartley's attor-
ney want here? There must be some
singular connection-between them."
" Very likely, both being villains,"
said Mrs. Somerset, in a tremulous
voice, striving to hide the emotions
which were overpowering her.
Nothing transpired for a few days
after the receipt of the attorney's let-
ter. It might seem as though further
proceedings were dropped. But the
calm was deceitful; the stealthy work
of the law was going forwards; an ac-
tion had commenced, and the defend-
ant not replying, judgment was ob-
tained. " Then were sundry writs made
out, and duly stamped - mysterious
instruments of power not to be with-
stood. The result of all was'that, one
morning, a gentleman of a rather som-
bre and sedate appearance knocked at
the door of the cottage in Holloway-
road ; he was admitted,,being followed
by another person who walked close at
his heels. Mrs. Somerset naturally .p-
quired" whether he wanted her hus-
band.
" No, it's no matter, ma'am, though
the gentleman is absent. -I don't want
him-at least not yet ; I'm come to take
the things."
" The things ! What do you mean?"
"Why, the furniture, to be sure."
"No doubt the person has made
a mistake," obsei-ved Hester.  "He
should apply at the next house, where
they are going to remove."
The sombre-looking gentleman smil-
ed ; the man at his heels laughed out-
right.
"It's no mistake, pretty miss. I'm
-sorry, certainly, to be troublesome,
ladies, but law is law, and it can't be
helped. Look you, I'm a sheriff's offi-
cer, and this is my man. I come here
by the instructions of Mr. Pike, at
the suit of Mr. Hartley, to put in an
execution. -So remember, you won't re-
move any of the goods. They'll be
sold in due course by our auctioneer."
Hester, who knew nothing of the
law, was astonished. Mrs. Somerset
stood, a' picture of silent dismay.
The bailiff peeped into one room, and
then into another ; after which l1e
gravely shook his head.
, " Bad-badI   I fear .there  ain't
enough things in the house to satisfy
one-quarter of the judgment. No doubt
I-sliallh ave to serve another writ, for -

HESTER SOME,RSET.

the 'body,' by, and by. But let it be.
Law is law. Ma'am, I shall leave my
man here in possession ; you will give-
him  meat and drinks recollect. Per-
haps in two or three days our business
will.be finished."
Mr. Somerset,.if he wanted any other
proof than the proofs already given
was, now thoroughly convinced of the
blackness of his brother's heart. His
situation was the more trying. and bit-
ter, inasmuch as he was beginning,
-  by his perseverance and industry, to
retrieve his circumstances.: The= little
lac   furniture: in the cottage he ,had pur-
chased ,out of his scanty savings, and
all would now be taken from them.,
He had imagined Hartley would have
been the most lenient of his creditors,
but,: on the contrary; he was likely
to prove the hardest and-most inexora
ble.-
As the sheriff's officerforetold, the,
auctioneer came, and everything in the.
cottage was disposed of, including even
the beds on. which the inmates lay.
One thing only out oftthe wreck Hester,
with many supplications and tears,.suc-
ceeded in saving-that was her canary-
bird.
The unhappy family beheld them-
selves in an empty house. Mr. Somer-
set had a pound i his pocket. This
enabled him to procure a small lodging.
in the neighborhood; and, with two
bundles (all the worldly goods they
possessed), they sat down in their attic
room, sorrowful-crushed, indeed, yet
not in despair. So long as Somerset
could follow his employment in the
newspaper-office, they would not abso-
lutely starve.
In a short time the smile and the
happy activity of Hester returned ;
but the wild bursts of sorrow to which
Mrs. Somerset had yielded were suc-
ceeded by an unnatural stupor. Again,
after the lapse of days, a flood of an-
guish would break forth, and which
tasked all Hester's soothing powers to
check or mitigate ; yet her frame was
not enfeebled, and -she betrayed no
physical ailment. Meantime Mr:Pike
was hunting for them, although for
some time without success, and he
blamed the sheriff's officer for losing
sight of the "body." Like a blood-
hound, he tracked them at last, for he
discovered their attic; and then, smil-
ing pleasantly and rubbing his meagre
hands, he returned to the city.

6V9

"You are early-to-day," said a man
to Mr. Somerset, as the latter was in
the act of leaving his room, with the
intention of proceeding to his place of
business. It was the same person who'
had levied the execution.on his furni-
ture. " Ha I Isee you, know me. Well,
it is as I- thought ; the goods. didn't
fetch more than fifty pounds. The
judgment ain't satisfiedas you may-sup-
pose, so I've now-a writ to take the
'body'"
Although this last stroke did not
come quite unexpected, Mr. Somerset
for a moment lost his presence of mind.
He drew backwards,-and-the movement
brought him to the door of the room,
where Mrs. Somerset and hester caught
sight of him. In an)instant they were
by his side, and.the appearance of their
old enemy, the bailiff caused them the
wildest alarm.
"Now don't .be-frightened, ladies,"
said the man; " there's no need ,of
fear, no use in it, Itassure'e. Only'
want 'the gentleman to'-come quietly
along with me-; for law is.law."
"With you?" cried Hester; ''and
where ?"
" Only to Mr. Stronglock's in Chan-
cery-lane ; and afterwards, perhaps,- a
little farther on, to the 'house.' "
" What house ?" exclaimed   Mrs.
Somerset.
" Don't trouble yourself, ma'am.
There's nice lodgings in that house,
believe me ; that is, for those who can
pay for 'em; for, you see,-the Fleet's
rather expensive."
Mrs. Somerset shrieked, and clung
to her husband; Hester kissed him
weeping bitterly, it is true, but whis-
pering at the same time words of com-
fort into his ear. The officer, long
accustomed to such scenes, remained
unmoved, feeling not the slightest touch
of pity at witnessing the poignant dis-
tress of that unhappy group.
"Now, I say, good people, all this
crying is of no manner of.use, depend
on it. Law is law ; and, you see, we're
bound to submit to it, or what would be
the good of the fine institootions of this
country, if we didn't, work 'em' out?
Come along, mister; I've no time to
spare."
"But my situation, on which every-
thing depends-if I am not at my post,
I shall lose my situation."
" Of course, that must go," said the
officer, bluntly, "unless your gentle-

y
A" 'pta+ : K.ciysl:                                                 'ate  ' .

I
f
f


HESTER SOMERSET.

HESTER SOMERSET.

men will bring your writing-work toi
the prison, which isn't very likely-ha!
ha!"
Mr. Somerset turned away his head.
It was a spasm of unutterable anguish
which came upon him ; but it passed,
and for the sake of those whom he
loved he strove to calm his agitated
spirit.
"Be composed," he softly said to
his wife and daughter. "We must
bear this finishing-stroke to our des-
tiny, or, rather let us say, we must be
resigned to the will of Heaven. Good-
by ; I will write to you from-"
But they clung to him with an ago-
nized, a wild tenacity it was piteous
to behold., The matter-of-fact bailiff
buttoned up his coat, being prepared
to do his duty, and " work out," as he
termed it, "the institootions of his
country." He had some difficulty in
untwining the arms that so closely em-
braced his prisoner, whose person the
bailiff now considered to be the pro-
perty of the law.
They would go with him ; they

would be near him, and share his pri-
vations and sufferings. But Mr. Somer-
set could not accede to their prayer,
and conducted them gently back into
the room, repeating his assurances
that he would shortly see them again.
Thus he left them   to their bitter
thoughts and tears, closing the door
after him, and accompanying the officer'
down the stairs.
Mr. Somerset and the bailiff had just
issued from the house; a hackney-
coach was standing near, and on the
other side of the road a man might
.have been seen intently looking at it;
he had remained for a long time
motionless, but, on perceiving the officer
and his prisoner, he moved a few steps
nearer to the coach ; his hat was drawn
over his brows ; there was a malicious
sneer on his swarthy features, but the
light of some triumphant and gratified
feeling burned' in his eyes ; they were
now fixed on Mr. Sognerset, who felt
a thrill creep through him, for'the man
who stood gazing on him so exultingly
was Roland Hartley.

CHAPTER I.
THE RUINED GENTLEMAN IN THE FLEET
PRISON.
WELL has the Fleet Prison been de-
nominated the "house of sighs :" well
has the old structure, within the last
few  years, been levelled with the
ground., A  popular movement de-
stroyed the Bastile in Paris; but here
no national convulson, no blood-stained
revolution, no uptearing of the founda--
tions of society, were-required to-effect
the demolition of the hoary pile. A
quiet enactment of the legislature
brought about the desired event ; and
now the house of mourning, of cruelty,
and extortion ranks only among the
things which were.
But our story is retrospective, em-
bracing events- which occurred some
twenty years ago. Then the Fleet
Prison, though shorn of its ancient
terrors, when a NeWton, a Bambridge,
and a Huggins, memorable wardens,
plied chain and starvation to wring the
last farthing from the miserable debt-
or; then, however, it saw quite suffi-
cient suffering, and heard within its
walls an amount of sighs large enough,
to render it, at best, a very ominous,
unenviable, and fearful place.
We may remind the reader that the
old prison, situated between Newgate
and the thoroughfare now called Far-
ringdon-street, was surrounded by a
lofty brick wall, the outer portion of
which remains, standing at the time
we write. Access was had to the prison
through an iron-bound door beneath a
stone arch. After passing the porch,
you perceived on the left hand a small
room, and there sat the grim Cerberus,
the keeper. Beyond the coffee-room,
you reached the area, or yard, where
the melancholy debtor contrived at
times to kill weary time, and drown
thought by plunging desperately into
the exciting games of skittles and rack-
ets.
"Remember the ' poor debtor !"
sounded in your ear. The pitiful ap-
peal came from some prisoner placed

for the time, as it was termed; "on
the grate :" but whether the charita-
ble pence dropped by the visitors into
his box really went to relieve his own
wants, or to fatten the warden and re-
gale the tipstaffs, seemed to be a point
never exactly ascertained.
Burnt down by the great fire of Lon-
don, 1666-rebuilt, burnt, and burnt
again during the Gordon riots, and
still, like a huge phoenix, rising from
its ashes-the strange nondescript pile
of buildings within the high encircling
wall now spread before you. The at-
tempt were hopeless to describe the
place. Long passages, extending from
one extremity -of the prison to the
other, pierced with countless doors
opening into single rooms: galleries
above, and galleries below; large
square apartments, in which debtors,
unable to pay for private accommoda-
tion, were lodged half-a-dozen together;
damp rooms below the level of the
yard; narrow, dark paths, sweeping
around the entire buildings, and sepa-
rating them from the great outer wall;
a little town in itself, here exhibiting a
heart-touching picture of misery, and
there a scene of low, riotous mirth;
bakers, with baskets of loaves on their
backs for those who could purchase
them; Jews, with- great black bags,
driving bargains with gentlemen for
their coats, the said gentlemen being
content, until some kind friend from
the outer world should transmit them
new garments, to perambulate the lob-
bies in their shirt-sleeves; the stout,
facetious tipstaffs, with . red bottle-
noses ; the lean man of letters, invoking
inspiration with a sigh, and wetting
his paper with his tears; the new-comer,
staring 'around him in bewildered
alarm: the initiated of thirty years
pacing slowly along, and hanging his
white head in pensive resignation to
his fate ;-such was the scene which
this ancient establishment, this cele-
brated prison, presented.
It was, early in the morning, and
few of the inmates were yet stirring,
being too happy to shorten the long
bay by indulging in slumber. One

A

I,

70,

71

BOOK II*

Aw

4


72

H E ST E R-- SOM E'SET-

man, however, was awake, and had
risen. The room which he occupied
belonged to those situated in the low-
est part of the building. It was about
four yards square ; the sides and roof
were of stone ; the floor was of the
same cold material, relieved only, by
narrow.,slips of wood placed across-
very welcome indeed to the solitary oc-
cupants, especially in winter. A. low
truckle-bed, with scanty clothes, but a,
few sacks providentially kept in reserve,
in case the sleeper should feel chilly ;
two chairs, withoutthe convenience of
backs; a single round, table, standing
unsteadily on half-demolished claws ;
a, deal box belonging to the inmate,
containing his linen-these comprised
the garniture of the room.
He sat on the corner of his truckle-
bed; his elbows rested on the table
which he had drawn towards him, and
his gray head reclined on his palms.
The light which shone through the
sinall-window above the door rendered-
his features distinctly visible. No vio-
lent paroxysm of sorrow now affected
him ; his brow was slightly contracted,
his eye was .fxed on the opposite wall,
and his breathing was low and steady.
The mind appeared to be wandering-
can we assign limits to the ethereal
spirit?-can we chain the rainbow
wings of fancy?-it was wandering
away from that miserable room, from,
that house of, darkness. and sorrow,
from the vortex of. busy, and to him
fatal, London. Where was it-wander-
ing ? In some imaginary land ?- some
elysium of its own creating ?-no.
Hugh Somerset was again in the old
Elizabethan mansion  of Brookland
Hall.  He sat in his study, his favor-
ite volumes around him, with all the
charms, the luxuries,, of an ancestral
home. His eyes, directed-towards the
large traceried window,roamed over
the extensive park; the trees were
rising there in picturesquegroups ; the
deer were gambling on the knolls, and
the stream, spanned by the rustic
bridge, was bubbling along and sparJk-
ling in the sun. His ear was attracted
by a sound ; it was the silvery merry
laugh of Hester, a child once more,
chasing a butterfly on the terrace.
Swiftly with her tiny feet she darted
along the white shining pebbles, down
the flight of polished steps, to the gar-
den, and up again : around the large
urns and vases; off to the fountain,

cooling her arms in the liquid crystal;
then flying, with the long golden hair
like a stream behind her, towards the
house : a thing of joyous impulses, to
whom the mere sense of being seemed
a rapture. So, flushed, breathless, but
still all loveliness and laughter, she
entered her father's study. She rushed
up to his knee and hid her face on his
arms, while Somerset stooped: down
and showered kisses on the neck, the
brow, the hair, of his loved and beauti-
ful child.
Ecstatic dream of hours never to re-
turn! Kind fancy . which can thus
restore to the bereaved heart scenes of
such exquisite bliss Oh ! if, by some
happy process of mental alchemy,
these moments of golden imagination
could endure through life, theseeming
wretched would be wretched no more;
but the silvery mist floats away ; the
sun of reason must rise. A brawling
in the outer court of the prison between
some tipstaff and pugnacious debtor
awakened Somerset to the reAity of
the scene around him.. Slowly he turn-
ed his gaze to the stone roof, the stone
floor, and, the wretched-pallet. Brook-
land Hall, the park, the trees,. the,
young child, all the fairy scene ha4
vanished, and he was alone--ruined
-without hope. The once-envied, the
wealthy and h appy man, was a prisoner .
in a squalid jail. , Again his head
dropped on his supporting palms, and
his eyes were riveted on the- rough-
table ; yet he uttered no complaint to
himself; he did not sigh, but remained
there silent and immovable as a sta.
tue.          '

CHAPTER II

HESTER VIsITs HER FATHER IN PRISON.
PRIsoNERS unable to pay anything
towards their lodging or support were
placed in that part of the building
called the "common side." There they
were quartered in large rooms, capable
of holding several beds, and they ate
their scanty fare at a common table.
Anxious to avoid such a mode of living
altogether repugnant to his feelings,
Mr. Somerset preferred a room apart
in the lower story, even though it
might be damp and cold. For this the
terms were one shilling and three

HE'STER       SOMERSET.                         73
pence per week. He might have ob- scarcely believed himself capable of
tained for the same sum an apartment experiencing in a prison. Moving
higher up in the building, but then he away from the court, he entered his
would have been subject to the annoy- room, for he felt a dislike at betraying
ing system of "chummage ;" that is, his emotions before the unsympathizing
others might have been billeted upon people of the place.
him, to get rid of whom a certain weekly  His door was ajar, and he stood
allowance would have been demanded. looking out; he heard the bolt with-
The rooms alluded to, as may be draw, and the gate open. The devotee
supposed, were the worst in the prison, may be late at the altar; the lover may
since a pound and two pounds a week be after the appointed time at the tryst-
were commonly charged for apartments ing-place ; but that poor child did not
offering the least degree of comfort, so disappoint her expectant father. A
not to say luxury, to the occupiers.  minute had not elapsed before her
There was--a knock at Mr. Somer- dress might have been seen fluttering
set's door, and he sprang up with ani- through the porch, and across the pri-
mation. No, it was not she whom he son-yard.   She, was coming, like a
expected, but the morning charwoman gentle angel of peace andmercy,,to the
going her rounds.  So the poor man, careworn and broken-hearted.
wrapping atattered coat about him (his  Mr. Somerset threw open his door;
best garment had been sold to a Jew), Hester could understand his delicacy
walked out into the court-yard. Mr. in forbearing to meet her in the open
Somerset paced slowlyto and fro, but space, for love like theirs was too sacred
was too-much absorbed in his own bit- to be scoffed at by the rude hard spirits
ter musings to take much notice of that surrounded them. Here unseen,
those around him. He would raise except by Heaven, the father and child
his eyes as if to gaze beyond the iron could indulge in that gushing fondness
spikes which fenced the summit of the which is not less beautiful, less sanc-
lofty wall, yet it was not to lament the tified, because a natural instinct.
impossibility of escape, or to dream of  She lay in his arms, her lips mur-
the world without, but to observe duringg words of affection and comfort,
whether the sky were fine, or the pass- soft and almost indistinct in their
ing clouds were likely to pour rain.  sweetness, like the balmy breathing of
"Yes, she has a long way to come," summer's eve through some old forest
he whispered.; " and her poor, delicate trees. Mr. Somerset's gray head bent
little feet-but it won't fain, it won't over her, and he was unable to utter a
rain ;" and again he pursued his hur- word, his emotions taking away for the
ried walk.                          moment his voice, and almost choking
He stopped, and mechanically felt him.
for his watch, then, recollecting it had Such was the greeting, and such was
been pawned, shook his head. Did St. it every morning ; nor did the pleasure
Andrew's clock strike eight? the hour experienced by each grow less' because
at which the prison-gate was opened often repeated. They became calm,
for the admission of strangers - the and Mr. Somerset seated himself on a
hour intensely longed for by him every chair, only, it would seem, to look at
morning. He stood in a listening at- his child. There was little-now except
titude, straining his ear ; but it was softened sadness stamped on his face,
not eight o'clock, and the father must and memory, like a dark cloud, had
have patience a little longer.      gathered on his brow. Not so Hester;
"Your room is done, and your break- either with aview of cheering her father,
fast things are set," said the charwoman and that he might not believe she suf-
to Mr. Somerset, as she passed care-- fered, or that her spirit did in reality
lessly near him; but he did not heed rally, mounting like a brave little bark
her, thinking only of the hour of eight, over the billows of destiny, she evinced
and the appearance -of Hester. An- all her former lightness and energy.
other ten minutes-a quarter of an hour Misfortune and sorrow seemed in.vain
passed-five minutes more : the clock to have assailed her. Her slim rounded
does strike 1-that is St. Andrew's on form was active and flexible as ever ;
the hill, and that is St. Sepulchre's by her rosy ihps were wreathed with
Newgate. The strokes vibrate on his smiles, and her full blue eyes beamed
heart, yet carry with them apleasure he with joyous light.
6

)

-


'HESTER SMER     T           TER SOMERSET

But the daughter was now to act the
part of the good housewife; her bonnet
was thrown off, her fair hands were
ungloved, and she was busily searching
in the corner of a small basket which
she had carried on her arm. The roll
appeared at last, and the butter, the egg,
and the coffee ; and Hester kept prat-
tling all the while of a thousand ide-
scribable things-trifles to which the
sweet tongue of woman only can give
interest and significancy. Then she
invited her father to partake of the pre-
pared breakfast ; and the melancholy
man did eat, and talked to her, and at
.       times his worn, anxious countenance
was cheated into a smile.
Hester did not often refer to her
father's affairs, dreading the effect of
such allusions, but she loft the issue of
events rather to plans which already
were passing through her hopeful

thoughtful, then turning slowly to.
wards Hester, he said in a low voice,
"Well, well; I pray to be resigned.
Heaven's will be done I The shock
was great-too great for her fine and
sensitive brain: but the tangled thread
may be unwound, and the bent reed
again be made straight."
"They will, father-they will; hopeI
The storm shall pass away, and the
sun shine again upon us all, by and by
-hope!-Yes, we shall meet, and be a
happy family once more. Suffer a little
longer-bear up bravely a little longer.
Oh! hope ! hope !"
So' whispered the heart of- youthful
love, which never yet desponded. But
Somerset, with the less imaginative
temperament, and the more deeply-
seeing eye, shook his head. St. An-
drew's clock struck eleven, and the
father and daughter parted.-

brain.
Mr. Somerset was unwilling for' his
daughter to remain with him long ; she
would gladly have borne him company          CHAPTER III.
through the day, but such a practice,'
the father knew, in a place like the  HESTER IN HER SOLITARY LODGINGS.
Fleet Prison, where the coarsest lan-
guage was constantly heard, and vi-  HESTER had been residing about two
cious habits witnessed, would be highly miles from the prison, but the house
prejudicial to the female mind.    was situated at a greater distance from
They were about to part. Why had her. father than she wished; conse-
not Mr. Somerset yet made inquiries quently, she determined on changing
for his wife-the mother of his child? her place of abode. A -sympathizing
He was about to do so several tiines, but poor friend recommended her to a
but some undefined feeling stopped his woman who kept a lodging-house in the
tongue ; his hesitation seemed to imply neighborhood of the. Fleet. This poor
an unaccountable aversion to allude to friend accompanied her to the spot,
the subject, although it were connected and placed her under the protection of
with a fearful and harrowing secret. the mistress of the house.  Hester's
After a fruitless effort, and another, to youthful age and defenceless situation
speak of Isabella, he at length said, especially needed the watchful care of
with difficulty,                   an elderly person. Such guardianship
"Did you call-at the-, yester- the woman promised, and meant really
day?"                        .     in her heart to give-so long, ,at least,
"Yes," answered Hester, her sunny as the inmate duly paid her weekly
countenance becoming suddenly over- rent.
cast.                                Near Green Arbor-court, in the Old
"Did they say there was any- Bailey-Green Arbor-court, once the
change?"                           residence of the luckless Goldsmith,
"They told me there was no altera- but now more famous as the noisy de-
tion; but she continued calm, quite pot of a railway-carrier-a little below
calm, except-"                     this court, the pedestrian enters Fleet-
"Except, Hester? that is a fearful lane. While. streets around have un-
word."-                            dergone remarkable changes, and drop-
" At short intervals."           ped their ancient names, this narrow,
Somerset drew a deep breath, and sinuous thoroughfare has extended in
averted his head. He lifted his hands the same direction, and borne its present
to his temples, pressing them  there, appellation, for many long centuries.
and stood for a few moments-silent and It winds zigzag. down a declivity,

. 2
; ax
e N
"b
iMl
(h'.7
iiiiRpppL
t
Nk
r{
Gtr
+rl
N
,.4
v
fy

75

and connects the Old Bailey with Far- motive for that pardonable deception
ringdon-street, formerly the Fleet Mar- was removed, and nature's impulses
ket. The lane has no very peculiar would not be resisted.  No one is a
features to distinguish it. Like the hypocrite in solitude.
old London streets before the great fire,  The girl was sitting opposite to her
it is very narrow (about five paces canary, its cage being suspended ,near
across), and the houses are very high the window above the flowers. How
(generally four stories). It ' boasts, pale she looked; how thoughtful ! and
however, in the present day, flagstones yet how beautiful! The age of fifteen
on each side for foot-passengers, and had developed those graces which we
two purifying gutters. The inns, re- saw budding so sweetly in the child
nowned a century and a half ago for of eleven. At no other period do four
the celebration of the Fleet marriages, years make such a visible change as
have disappeared, the present hostel- at this epoch in the life of a woman.
ries being limited to two, which display The cheek had lost its peach-like tint,
the anti-picturesque and commonplace yet it was as soft, delicate, and dimpled
signs of the White and Red Lions,   as formerly; the eyes, retaining their
It was in this ancient lane that Hes- brightness, expressed more character
ter took up her abode. The room she and depth of feeling; a higher resolve
occupied was on the topmost story of seemed to sit on her expanded fore-
-the house, and looked down into the head, and more energy and decision
street. The rent was eighteen-pence breathed from the whole face. Her
a week; the occupier waiting on herself, figure had gained the fulness of a
or, in other'Swords, being her own serv- Hebe, without losing any of its grace
ant. The apartment, as may be sup- or natural elasticity.; and it were diffi-
posed, wad scantily furnished, and only cult to say whether the wild flowing
the clever and tasteful hand of one like ringlets of earlier years were not well
Hester might have rendered it at all exchanged for the luxuriant hair which,.
endurable. Yes, even there the trans- being braided and wound around the.
forming skill of woman was soon visi- head, displayed the swan-like neckand
ble. The small carpet under the round superadded a little dignity of appear-
table had ceased to exhibit a hole. The ance where all before was childlike
paper patches in the window, designed loveliness.
to supply the absence of glass which  Hester was stooping forwards in her
had been broken, were half concealed chair, apparently listening to the song
by a white muslin curtain. The rough of her bird, which trilled its notes
sill was adorned by sundry flower-pots, of gladness, no matter whether in a
where mignonette soon began to grow, dungeon or a wild-wood forest. Her
and small geraniums already put forth hands lay listlessly in her lap, and.
their fresh green leaves. The love of every now and then a bright bead glis-
flowers was a deeply-rooted passion in tened upon them. Yes, tears filled-her
-Hester's heart, and whether she luxu- eyes, and, stealing quietly down her
riated in a conservatory at Brookland long lashes, dropped one by one upon
Hall, or gazed on the .stunted floral those folded hands.  Separated from
abortions nursed in a London fog, the her parents, she felt alone in the world;
sentiment remained the same. Hester, yet it wasnot.her own lot over which
too, had a companion-a companion she brooded or mourned. Her form
that had not deserted her; the canary- was in that room, but the excursive
bird was there, singing to the girl and spirit was in the prison with her father;
to her flowers.                    now it would enter the cell of a lunatic
We must view her now in her little asylum, and she heard the sighs of the'
apartment.   She had just. returned sorrow-stricken maniac, and the clank-
from the prison where, with her accus- ing chain of the hopeless and furious.
tomed buoyancy of spirits, she had That last picture Hester could. not
been endeavoring to cheer her father. dwell on; a shudder crept through her
We lately saw this exhibition of hope- veins, and she altered her position, half
fulness and gayety on her part, but' imaginingby that movement she might
Hester had then a purpose to serve, change the course of her meditations.
and she appeared happy for Mr. Somer-  ' Did a sunbeam flash across the room,.
set's sake, while her heart was break- that a brightness so suddenly over-
ing. But it was different now: the spread Hester's countenance?   Th:

HESTER SOMERSET;,


76

HESTER SOMERSET.

memory of past days, of a past passion, livelihood, and' she had lived on the
filled her heart--a past passion? no, it money procured by the sale of her
was not past, for it lived through time, wardrobe. One by one her articles of
through misfortune, unconquered and dress had isappe red. Mr. Somerset,
unblighted.  Quietly, in' the inmost as we have een,had been compelled
shrine of her soul, she worshipped the totfollow the same humiliating course.
image of him who won her childhood's The tilne,'however, was nearly come
affection. No'other would ever occupy when such a channel of supply would
his place there ; he might be lowly cease, for neither of them now possess-
born ; he could not boast blood which ed much more to dispose of. Hester
had flowed through the veins of a race did not close her eyes to this fact; she
of heroes ; yet to her that spirit seemed was aware of the terrible strait to which
to require no such adventitious aids. she should be reduced, and felt, also,
It was in itself noble. Such as he would the necessity of action. It was not,
achieve his own fortunes, and elevate however, by mourning, or by dreaming
himself by the force of his own genius. over the past, that she should be able
Oh ! was not, she thought, a position so to ward off starvation from herself, and
won, tenfold as honorable, tenfold as render benefit to her father.
glorious, as that granted to mere birth,  The paths open to woman's exertions
and gained without an effort on the are few, in  comparison with those
part of the possessor, and held often- which may be entered on by the other
times without,a virtue?      .       sex ; yet limited as they are, Hester did
So thought Hester, never imagining not despair of succeeding some way or
that -genius and perseverance in this other. The great world was around
world often struggle on, endeavoring in her ; all were striving for themselves;
vain to snatch the laurel-wreath, and and she must bear a .part in the scene
dying at last, their claims unacknow- -she must not shrink from contact
ledged, and their names unhonored.-  with the vulgar, nor bend servilely
Ernest Banks had entered the army in the presence of the great, and she
in India, but held a low and subordinate must accustom her eyes to behold suffer-
rank. One letter had reached her nine ing, as well as patiently'endure suffer-
months previously, since which time ing herself. She must be made familiar
she had heard nothing of him.   He withthe haunts ofsqualor and wretched-
might have fallen in action, or been cut ness, and the homes of toil; with insult,
off by one of the deadly maladies of the wrong, persecution; with dark hours
country ; but this, her heart, which was of despondency, and gleams of hope
essentially hopeful, would not believe. between-all, in short, which may at-
So she ,dreamt of him, wove pictures of tend the career of the friendless and
the future from fancy's rainbow threads poverty-stricken in England's great
of light; and, more than all, treasured metropolis.
up, sweet miser of the soul! his looks,  What, then, were to be the aim and
his words, his vows, till the idea of him end of her struggles and her plans?
became blended with every other sen- merely to provide for herself, and supply
timent of her mind ; and she only her father with a few comforts in ad-
wished to exist, to struggle on, and to dition to his wretched prison fare ?
battle with her hard destiny,, for his This, no doubt, would have been a
sake, and the-sake-of them to whom she sufficient, even an arduous task ; but
owed her being.                     Hester had a greater object in view,
And how had Hester contrived up to and had meditated a more comprehen-
the present period to support herself? sive scheme. She ha~d dared to conceive
She had written to friends, and had im- that, by her own unassisted exertions,
plored some distant relations to.assist she should be able to gain a sufficient
her father and herself.; but their an- sum to effect the liberation of herfather!
swers were cold, and their purses drawn but by what means, and within the-
close, for, they all seemed to consider compass of how long a time, this con-
that Mr. Somerset's difficulties and summation was to be brought about,
misfortunes were richly merited, being even her own ardent spirit could not
a just punishment for his reckless and declare.
mad speculations.                     The liberation of her father from
Hester was too much harassed to prison ! Poor dreamer !-gentle de-
adopt yet any measures for obtaining a visei- of impossibilities! Pence will be

HESTER SOMERSET.

difficult enough for her to earn, much
less pounds and hundreds of pounds.
To say that the oak on the mountaintop
was once an acorn, and the long coral
reef in the sea,. on which fleets are
wrecked', commenced in a tiny insect,
may be truthful and picturesque, and
the fact may afford an appropriate
parallel or metaphor when we speak of
certain undertakings; but here the
figure is not in place. Hester would
have no centuries through which to ex-
tend her . operations, and even that
which she might treasure up would,
perhaps, in a world of fraud, be again
snatched from her.
No matter.; what youth 'undertakes
in the..firm spirit of faith, youth will
sometimes accomplish, even in defiance
of the dicta of philosophy, and the
warnings of experience. Time only
will prove whether Hester's project be
a shadow-a bubble to. resolve itself
into air, or whether, indeed, she shall
be capable of .carrying her conception
into a reality.
The light through the half-uncur-
tamed, window is streaming on her
now, and the bird has ceased its song,
as if under the influence of some in-
stinctive awe. The girl kneels onthe
floor ; her blue eyes are uplifted and her
hands clasped ; - her lips move, yet no
articulate words are heard, those lips
obeying but the breath of the inward
spirit, as rose-buds wave in the sum-
mer air, but make no murmur. She
beseeches Heaven to grant her strength,
to smile success. on her undertaking,
to support and protect her, in world
where she has now scarcely a friend.
If white-winged ministers of angelic
race are said to surround the hoary
saint, ready to fly.up with his prayer
to heaven, then were those ministers
in that lone and squalid room; their
pinions overshadowed the head of that
innocent and fervid-souled suppliant;
they stooped down their celestial ears
to catch what the spirit was breathing;
and they smiled at being able to convey
such a prayer n high to the footstool
of mercy. Alas ! that behind them a
fiend pointed with black finger at the
future, and scowled.

77

CHAPTER IV.

HESTER IN SEARCH oF A sITUATION.
THE - original sum owed by Mr. So-
merset to Roland Hartley was- 5501.
The sale of the furniture in the Hol-
loway cottage had reduced the amount
to 5001. This debt, then, did Hester
purpose, by her single unaided efforts,
to liquidate.
How   should she commence ?   By
means of what occupation might she
hope to: save money gradually and
surely, after . providing for her own
wants, and allowing her father a small
weekly sum?    This question for a
considerable time had: occupied her
mind, and puzzled her brain. Any
situation to which a certain annual
stipend might be attached, such as
that of a teacher in a school, or a go-
verness in a family, would not answer
the purpose. No hope could possibly
exist of effecting the freedom of her
father, if she could gather together no
more than the limited sum of 151. or
201. a year. The pursuittnecessary for
her to adopt must be one from which an
increasing remuneration may be ex-
pected, and it must be one whereby
extra exertions shall beattended with
extra gain.
The eyes of Hester had been dazzled
by the splendid shops of milliners and
dressmakers in the west end of. the
metropolis. Were it possible, thought
the girl in her far-stretching hope-
were it possible for her to rise gradual-
ly to be mistress of one of such esta-
blishments, her aim would be accom-
plished; her father would be free, and
she should be able to support him and
her afflicted mother in comparative
affluence.
These golden dreams were filling her
head, when one morning she set forth.
from Fleet-lane towards the aristocratic
regions of the west, Eagerness gave
her wings as she passed up Holborn ;
her, heart -began to throb when she,
entered Great Russell-street; more and
more these palpitations increased, as
she proceeded along Oxford-street: her
step grew slow, and her limbs trembled,
as she approached nearer to the place
where she designed making her first
application. Hester was a novice yet
in the business of the world,,and she
had not, alone and unsupported, come
into collision with the merciless and
scornful.

. -
L

rt
#Y
Y$
u4'{
1
e;
i


HESTER SOMERS"ET.

Her agitation, caused by uncertainty
and suspense, did not subside, and she
stopped before a print-shop for a few
moments, to collect her thoughts, her
eyes being fixed, notion the pictures,
but the card that bore the number of
the'house in Regent-street to which
she was proceeding. Who cared for
her ? The throng passed up and passed
down ; what to them was the little
world within her bosom? What cared
those reckless passers-by for the fears,
.the anxieties,.the sorrows, which wrung
her heart? Yes, she was in solitude
amidst that vast busy. crowd. None
asked her whom she sought, or what
she wanted. Sc there did Hester
stand, leaning on the window-sill, look-
ing on her card, her cheek pale and
her hand trembling. At length she
felt a slight tap on her shoulder; it
awoke her to her recollection, and she
looked up at the -person who touched
her. It was one of the newly-organ-
ized police, who, about this period, be-
gan to perambulate the streets of Lon-
don. "You must move on," said the
man ; "you mustn't block up the pave-
ment."
The idea of such a fragile creature
as-Hester blockingg up the pavement"
was novel and preposterous enough ;
but the functionary said so, and his
word was sufficient. Casting a piteous
look at the man, whose face was
"made" stern for the occasion, the girl
obeyed. The. incident, however, was
not without its good effect, for it roused
her spirit, and by, urging her into
action, enabled her, in part, to conquer
her agitation.
Reaching the Circus, she turned
down Regent-street. It was now by a
desperate effort that Hester strung her
nerves, and resolved to go through her
intended task. The magnificent shops,
with their huge panes of plate-glass,
and 'gorgeous display of fashionable
trifles, blazed around her. Carriages
were drawn up in front of the doors,
and tall footmen, with their gilt staves,
were standing, grave as Oriental eu-
nuchs, on the edge of the pavement.
Hester reached the house which she
sought. It had a private entrance and
no shop-front, resembling in this re-
spect many other great fashionable es-
tablishments of its kind in London.
Several splendid equipages, in waiting
outside, denoted the place to be one of
no small consequence. Ringing the

bell (the daughter of the ruined 'squire
was no longer a lady, so she dared not
knock), Hester was questioned by the
porter in livery as to her business.
"I wish to see the mistress of the
house."
The man, with the scrutiny peculiar
to his class, eyed her from  head to
foot. Her clothes were plain, but not
vulgar. . Her beautiful figure was now
erect, and her veil, half removed, dis-
played her striking countenance. The
worthy janitor of the house saw nothing
objectionable in her appearance, and
thei'efore condescended to be civil.
" You want madame ?-good. Do
you bring an order, miss ? Excuse me
for asking ; as we don't permit every
one to enter madame's room."
" No ; I am recommended to apply
here for employment."
The man's manner changed, and he'
was immediately coarsely familiar.
"So, so, my prettygirl, that's it, is
it? Well, you did right to ring, and
not knock. The girls who oon{f a-
knocking after situations, we, that's
me, always turn away. I don't allow
'workers to knock at my door. But
come inside, my near, and don'tblush.
I never take liberties--that's against
the rules."
"Let me see Madame Mongolier !"
said Hester, in an impatient and rather
indignant tone.
"Can't !" exclaimed the man. "Ap-
plicants for situations never see ma-
dame, or she might be pestered all day.
But follow me; you may speak to the-
forewoman."
Hester walked   after the  porter
through a long passage. Several doors
opened on either hand, revealing with-
in splendid assortments of all kinds
of dresses, and indescribable nicknacks
intended for the adornment of the fe-
male person. Ladies also were there,
choosing, admiring, purchasing, and
envying; while the music of soft sweet.
tongues was    floating  everywhere.
Meantime Hester was hurried forward,
and at the end of the passage her guide
mounted a few steps, and, turning
shortly to the left, reached a door which
opened into a very spacious room.
Here was discovered a multitude of
heads, all bending down in the same
attitude, while countless hands were
plying the needle without a moment's
intermission. The porter stopped at
the entrance, and addressed a little

1i
V
[

_n
L
,e

HESIER SOMERSET.

starch-faced woman who happened just
then to be near.
"Mademoiselle, this young person
wishes to speak with you."  Having
thus delivered himself, he hurried
back to his post at the front door.
The forewoman, Mademoiselle Har-
fleur, was a genuine Parisian, about
thirty-five years of age, small in her
person, but strong and active. She was
sharp in her countenance, and sharp
in her intellect. Her skin was dry and
sallow, but a little rouge skilfully laid
on gave an unchanging freshness and
piquancy to the face. She had superb
and ravishing curls, subject only to a
slight drawback-they were all false !
The pearly teeth, said to have beautified
Una, Beatrice, the  Floras, and the
Sylvas, were brown in comparison
with the stain   masticators of Ma-
demoiselle  arfleur. Oh! divine den-
tist of the Palais Royal! who didst fix
those white treasures in'the coral gums!
Nature, defeated, bends to thee, and
confesses thy superiority, surpassing
Parisian dentist!I
Madenmoiselle was busily employed
giving directions to one of the work-
women, so that several minutes elapsed
before she took any notice of Hester.
Having finished her story, she turned
quickly around, and spoke in a rapid
manner, with a strong French accent.
"Ha! the porter, I think, said some-
thing about you. Well, what do you
want, my girl? Speak !"
Hester answered in French, suppos-
ing her knowledge of that language
might be considered advantageous, and
win her the good graces of the fore-
woman.
"HaI ha !" laughed Mademoiselle
Harfleur, holding her sides ; "you are
no Parisian, I perceive. No foreigner
was ever yet perfect in our immortal
language.  You are English; -speak
your own tongue, child."
"Forgive me; I did not presume to
pass for French. I am recommended
to Madame l\iongolier; I am in want
of employment."
"Oh !well, very well !" cried the
little woman, turning every moment,
and darting here and there her restless
eyes. "We need a few extra hands
just now. What can you do? Whose
employ have you been in ?"
emI have as yet been in no person's
employ. I have taken a few' lessons."
"Where i7"

79

" In the suburbs of London-at Hol-
loway."
" Ha! bad, very bad !"  And Made-
Inoiselle Harfieur shrugged her shoul-
ders, and shook her -luxuriant false
curls.
"I do not expect high remuneration,"
said Hester.
"Of course not. Your employment
must be that of a seam-runner."
"Most willingly, madam."
"You can aspire to nothing higher.
Well, we want some good seam-run-
ners, being rather busy. What is your
name ?"
As Hester answered, the little wizen-
faced lady took a small book from her
pocket, and, producing a pencil, was
prepared to write.
" You will pardon my questions, but
we always make inquiries respecting
those we employ.    Where do you
live ?"
"In Fleet-lane."
"Where is that? Stay, I think I
know ; it is a dirty place somewhere in
the city. Well, what is your father ?"
He was a country gentleman."
Was ?-then perhaps he is dead."
"No, thank God, he is still alive."
"Then, what is he?"
Hester knew not how to answer the
question: at length she said-" No-
thing."
"h6 Oh ! he is 'nothing ;' that is very
bad again. He won't support his fami-
ly, I suppose? Where is he now ?"
This was terrible interrogatory.
It took Hester by surprise, and she
found it impossible to return a reply.
The paleness which overspread her
face, and the agitation which suddenly
oppressed her, raised a singular suspi-
cion in the mind of the Frenchwoman.
"Excuse me, my girl, but it is ne-
cessary these little particulars should
be known before we engage young wo-
men, for we are select, very select.
Where, Irepeat, is your father now ?"
" Spare me !" gasped Hester; "ask
me any question but that."
"  a, foi! ma cthre, this is strange 1"
"I beseech you, have compassion on
me!"
In her eagerness, clasping her hands,
she had moved up close to, Mademoi-
selle Harfleur.  The curiosity of the
latter was awakened, not her pity, and
she drew the girl a little apart from the
workwomen. Hester spoke in a low
voice, and did not conceal the truth.

-1


-, ,

80

HESTER SOMERSET.

This was sufficiently evident from the
strong pantomimic action of the foreign
lady, for Mademoiselle Harfieur elevat-
ed her eyes until little more than the
whites were seen ; then raised, her
hands--gestures intended effectively to
express the greatness of her surprise
and horror.
"A prison ?" whispered mademoi-
selle,; "how dreadful!  But I spare
your feelings, I will be silent. Your
father in a prison ?-that's surpassingly
dreadful, young woman. What a de-
praved character he must be ! Never
mind-you need not explain-say no
more about the matter, I pray you; my
nerves are shocked-quite upset. Of
course I pity you, but I don't think,
under these unhappy and most dis-
agreeable circumstances, that you are
suited to our establishment."
The trembling of Hester increased,
and bitter disappointment was added
to the, sorrow she already felt.
"Give me a trial! I will be diligent;
I will do all in my power to give you
satisfaction.  You know the person
from whom I bring my testimonials."
"Why, yes; Madame .Mongolier
knows her slightly," said the fore-
woman, with a freezing accent. " She
does recommend you for honesty,
diligence, and so on, which is all very
well." The little woman meditated for
an instant, placing her forefinger on
her tawny brow. "Well, let me see ;
Madame Mongolier leaves the business
of engaging assistants entirely to my-
self. We, are in want of hands, I re-
peat.. You shall have a trial. . You
may come."
" And when may my duties com-
mence ?" asked Hester, with delighted
and palpitating heart. -
"Lose no time-we are busy-come
to-morrow."
CHAPTER V.
NEsTER'S FIRST STRUGGLE IN THE GREAT
METROPOLIS.
THE hours during which Hester
worked in the large establishment of
Madame Mongolier were from nine in
the morning until nine at night. She
was allowed two meals, and the remu-
neration she received exceeded that
usually given by other houses to young
women in, her capacity. It was 9s. a

week. From this amount Hester pur-
posed to expend, during the same length
of time, 3s. on herself, 3s. on her father,
as an addition to his prison allowance,
and the remainder was to be put by for
the grand object she had in view. The
last sum would, indeed, be a small
niite towards raising the 5001.  But
Hester did not stop here ; she intended,
after the. cessation of her labors in
Regent-street, to work half the night
at her lodgings in Fleet-lane, and all
thus gained would be clear profit, to be
appropriated entirely to what may be
termed her "general fund." -- The
weekly accumulation might further re-
ceive a small increase, in the shape of
interest, by being placed in a savings-
bank.   These monetary schemes and
devices, although strange at first, soon
became familiar to the child of neces-
sity, thrown on her own resources ; and
poor Hester became a financier, a,
Necker, a Pitt, in her small way ; a '
hoarder, a miser-but, oh, for what a
purpose !     -
It was three o'clock in the afternoon,
and Hester was seated among her sister
laborers in the great depot of fashion
in Regent-street. Carriages were drawn
up before the door as on previous occa-
sions;, loud knocks were heard, and
the footman in waiting was hurrying
to and fro. Fashionable ladies crowded
the show-rooms, where the august Ma-
dame Mongolier herself did the honors.
The room, we have already observed,
which contained the " workers," the
fabricators of the gay things for those
who themselves "toil not nor spin,"
was very spacious, but little care had
been bestowed with regard to its venti-
lation. This latter circumstance,' we
need not remark, was calculated seri-
ously to affect the health of the inmates.
There was a mass of heads confused
and mixed, and bowed down like pop-
pies when charged with rain. Hair of
all colors, from the light auburn to the
jetty black; complexions of most shades
saving those of the tropics; figures an-
swering to our ideas of deformity and
our notions of elegance ; beauty :of
many descriptions-these were blended
together in that room of toil, and af-
forded a striking picture.
The little Frenchwoman, with her
rouged cheeks and false curls, reigned
the queen of the place; and as a voice
was heard, or a half-laugh broke forth
from some younger creature not yet

HESTER SOMERSET.

81

thoroughly tamed down, the quick- clings to home, and the fields, the
eared Parisian instantly suppressed it. woods, and the flowers. Her fancy is
From time to time the countenances of with her young brothers and sisters,
some would be lifted from their work, playing in the meadows, gay, joyful,
daring to breathe a moment 'from their and without a restraint on their move-
toil.  Alas ! what languor and pallor ments.  Their voices sound on 'the
were seen in many a young and gentle summer air ; she hears, too, the chime
face ! what sorrow  spoke in those of the church-bells, for the tower rises
faded eyes ! what tales of privation were just on the other side of the stream, the
written on those wasted cheeks !    old gray pinnacles shooting above the
That girl, with the black glossy hair, green elms. During that wandering
and features bewitchingly handsome, of the mind, the work falls into her lap,
displaying the faultless Greek profile, and the needle drops from her fingers.
and the Spanish sleepy but soul-melting One by one the tears gush forth uncon-
expression, is an orphan cast upon the sciously, and, as she stoops. forward,
world, but happy to labor here, rather trickle upon the floor. One loud burst
than enter the flowery fatal path of of sorrow which she cannot control,
life, which attracts so many in her follows, and then, waking to a sense of
situation, leading them on to perdition. her situation, the poor girl, to conceal
Yonder female, more advanced in her emotions from her companons,
years, from whom the freshness which covers her face.
delights the eye has passed, whose fea-  Another picture-it is our last. In
tures are marked and hard, and whose that corner of the room we hear a low
back, from being long bent in one posi- cough-a cough not coming by violent
tion, has acquired an habitual stoop, paroxysms, but just audible,, and often
may be, like the imprisoned bird, recon- repeated.  There is something pain-
ciled to her lot. She toils on and on ; fully distressing in the constant recur-
she does not sigh ; she does not speak ; rence of it, and attimes it is more hollow,
the needle is plied, the thread is drawn; appearing to proceed from the deepest
she has no wish to see the green fieldA, cavity of the sufferer's breast. She
an  no hope to break her chain ; her is about twenty, and has worked here
daily task seems to be the sole object since the age of fourteen. The depart-
for which she was born. And so she ment which she fills obliges her to labor
labors on, week after week, weary year usually until midnight, and sometimes,
after year, treading in an unending in the busy season, until three andfour
circle, an unthinking piece of mecha- in the morning. The French forewoman
nism, a being who is neither happy, nor may see the bright red spot in the cen-
yet altogether sad.                 tre of her thin cheek, but no notice. is
We view a different picture in the taken of it ; she may hear her distress-
girl who sits' near Hester.  She is ing cough, but she heeds it not. Even
young, about the age of our heroine, Madame Mongolier herself, when in-
and though she has far less character specting occasionally her workwomen,
and intelligence impressed on her face, starts at beholding that frame, once
she is almost as beautiful as Mr. Somer- full of redolent health, now worn to a
set's daughter.  Her ringlets are of skeleton-at beholding the fingers so
light brown, falling on her shoulders; long and transparent, the cheeks ,so
her features are small and classically sunken, and, except in the centre, so
chiselled; her eyes full and of a hazel deadly white ; the eyes so painfully
hue, have a candid and innocent ex- prominent and glistening, with a dull
pression which seems to declare that no leaden circle around them; even Ma-
guile or sinister passions could ever dame Mongolier is shockedat witness-
enter in, and make a temple of her ing this, She is sorry and regrets it,
heart. Her thoughts are evidently but her sympathy goes no further.
absent, for though her head is depress-  " Some of the young women," she
ed, and her hand mechanically holds philosophically reasons, "must get ill,
her work, her needle is inactive. She and die-of course., It can't be helped.
has been sent from a distant part of The work must be done. We can't
England to learn the mysteries of fabri- shorten the hours of labor, and keep
eating dress, being one of a respect- ladies of rank waiting. Oh! no; that
able, but numerous and poor family. would never do."-
Her h     .eart is not in her labor; it still  So the poor consumptive girl, wo

I


82

HESTER SOMERSET.

must either work according to the
rules of the establishment, or enter a
parish poorhouse, prefers the former.
She ftdils, sits up through the night,
and dies;-and not one of all the "ladies
of rank" whom   she has -assisted to
clothe in their dazzling apparel drops a
tear of pity above her grave.
Such were a few of Hester's compan-
ions, whose positions and appearance
we have endeavored briefly to sketch.
We need scarcely say that, among all
the group, no one was found more
anxious to give satisfaction, or more
diligent than she. . Blessed with glow-
ing health and a strong constitution,
Hester- did not seem  as yet much
affected  by  the  confinement.  She
labored in Regent-street twelve hours
during the day; but, when she return-
ed to Fleet-lane, it was not to retire to
her bed.- No; if she sought the luxury
of rest at the ordinary time, small pro-1
gress would be made in accumulating
the nzoney. Every hour given to toil,
she considered an hour taken awayE
from the term of. her father's cap- t
tivity.  -_I
Hester was skilful at netting purses,'
and designed by this means to aug-c
ment her earnings. Seated at her t
small table, the blind ofRher window c
drawn down, there might she have
been seen laboriig while .the surround- t
ing neighbors were asleep.- Her rush- b
light afforded a dull and varying light,n
yet it was sufficient to enable the busy t
fingers to ply the red and green silk p
threads. St. Paul's clock struck hour
after hour, for, scarcely heeded by day, e
during the profound stillness of the F
night those loud, far-pealing, tremen- s
dous tones drown the chime of all other .
clocks in the vicinity, and sound like n
the solemn voice of incarnate Time o
announcing the gradual approach of his fc
last foe-Eternity!                  h
Deep into the night, far on towards b
morning, toiled the prisoner's indefati- n
gable daughter. It was some consola- w
tion to reflect that, while divided, she g
was still near her father ; a few houses T
off-a few steps, and there stood the l
walls of the gloomy prison. She would o
think-but while she thought, would
not suspend her netting-she would d
think, was he then asleep? or did his w
perturbed spirit meditate and mourn? a
Was he using on Brookland Hall, on
his ruined fortunes, on the fate of her m
mother, or was he thinking of her ?- F

A tear-a low sigh-a gradual closing
of the eyes, as fatigued nature was
nearly worn out-a sudden waking up
and renewal of her task-L--another hour
tolled on the deep solemn bell-again a
dropping of the languid hands, and
the falling forward of the fair head;-
so passed the time, until the natural
weakness and weariness of humanity
could be resisted no longer, and Hes-
ter would creep to her pallet, and--
slumber.

CHAPTER VI.

THE HUNOBACK MUSICIAN.
SEVERAL other lodgers, both male
and female,.were domiciled under the
same roof with Hester. Two of these
lodgers we shal now introduce to the
reader.
The persons alluded to were an only
son and his mother, who rented a sit-
ting-room and closet immediately be-
.ow the garret occupied by Hester.
The apartments, if they may be so
called, were miserable in appearance,
the furniture being half broken, or
clumsily patched and mended. Thus
a table, shattered in the centre, served
he office of two; a worm-eaten form,
having met with a similar fate, gar-
nished both sides of-the hearth. Carpet
here was none, its place being sup-
plied by a thin layer of yellow sand..
Jester's apartment was    cheerless
nough, but the dwelling-place of Mark
Flemming and his mother was far more
0.
At the fragment of' table the young
man was now seated. He was probably
older than his appearance indicated,
or his complexion was very fair, and
is person diminutive. -A large music-
ook lay open before him, and if we
night judge by the nature of the tunes
ihich the book contained, his musical
enius was of an ambitious characte .
'he collection appeared to be a me-
ange of marches, grand - overtures,
peras, and oratorios-
Measure not the intellect by the body's
imensions, and seek not for genius al-
rays in the soul of him who possesses
striking or beautiful countenance.
Whatever the spirit's attributes
eight be, nature was not kind to Mark-
lemming. He was one of those abor-

I

HESTER SOMERSET.

83

tions which, from time to time, come sweep, and with a velocity which
into the world only, it would seem, to momentarily increased.  Bold  and
be a subject of curiosity, a mockery of sharply sweet 'the  notes poured out,
humanity, and a hideous jest to their now thrilling, now mellow, now deep,
fellow-men. As he sat on his stool at and now vehement, until that violin,
the table, his legs, being .of the ordi- beneath the " divine frenzy" of the
.nary length, touched the ground; but performer, seemed a very fountain of
his body was extremely short, measur- sound, a living thing, a breathing soul!
ing from the nape of the neck down- The eyes of the musician brightened
wards scarcely fifteen inches. The as he grew thus energetic, and his
hump on his back, also, was so promi- countenance was no longer impressed
nent, that, seen from certain positions, with its accustomed melancholy. The
it almost looked like a second head. late ashy cheeks glowed, the veins
As he.squared his elbows in the action swelled on the high forehead, and the
of playing the violin, for such was his whole physiognomy was instinct with
instrument, it might have been per- a rapture which none but a lonely
ceived that his arms were of an extra- enthusiast, such as he might know.
ordinary length ;' yet those arms were  On the broken deal form close by
bony and vigorous, while the long atte- the hearth a woman was seated-the
nuated fingers possessed remarkable musician's mother. ThoughJittle more
play and power.                     than forty years old, she exhibited in
The hunchback's hair was of glossy her-gray hair, thin drawn cheeks, and
black,- and fell behind in massy curls wrinkled forehead, symptoms of pre-
over his threadbare coat.  His face mature old age. In addition to this,
was thin, and so entirely without color, as she raised her eyes, either in thought
that it resembled almost the face of a or towards-that part of the room where
lifeless being. The features, upon the she imagined the window to be, a dull
whole, were regular, even finely chisel- film, a blank whiteness which, was
led ; and the lofty broad brow would spread over the pupils, betrayed that
have formed a good study for a phreno- she had lost the richest of God's bless-
l]gist: the habitual expression, more ings-sight.  The woman was now
particularly of the eyes, was that of listening attentively to her son's music,
thought and melancholy-a melan- and it might not be too much to say,
choly so quiet, so tender, and yet so in- the she appeared nearly as enwrapped
tense that it irresistibly affected the as himself. Her face was turned in the
gazer's heart.                      direction whence the sounds proceeded,
The love of the poor -hunchbacNor and from time to time her countenance
music was not a common sentiment or was lit up with a smile of pleasure.
an acquired passion, but it was innate,  Thus in the attitude of listening, her
resembling in this respect an instinct, hands 'folded on her lap, would Mrs.
He did not practise music as a study, Flemming continue for hours together;
so much as he revelled in it as a luxury. yet her devotion to sounds might owe
It was his inner world, his second life. its origin less to a natural love of music,
He was wrapped up, lost in it-enslav- than that it was one of the few plea-
ed by it. He knew no joy of which it sures remaining to her senses, the light
was not the basis, and in his dreamy of heaven, and the countless objects in
mind scarcely believed that heaven the breathing world, being shut out
hereafterwould be heaven, without the from her soul. Then, too, the sweet
divine spells of harmony.           melodies were produced by the skill of
Softly the notes were now fluttering her son. Music gave him delight ; and
over the awakened instrument, the low his joy was hers,' his hope hers ; his
trillings of the small Paradise bird, success, his advancement in the world,
with the rush of its humming-painted were the great objects of her existence.
wings, being scarcely more delicately She loved him as a mother only can
,distinct. It seemed as if some tiny love. His poor-misshapen form was to
'spirit or fairy were flying off at every her memory not a monster, but that of
touch of the quivering bow, and sigh- a child of beauty,.and she could recal
ing as it went., Flemming himself ap- those hours, ere her eyes closed in
peared scarcely to breathe, his lips darkness, when she nursed him on
apart, and his eyes fixed. Anon those her bosom, and then his deformity was
long slender arms moved with wider deformity to her no more; for love,

A",                                      _

1-


HESTER SOMERSET.

by its Protean spell, had changed hit
to a radiant thing. The image stampe
on her brain remained unaltered ; an
now, not willing to disturb her dream
she world pass her hands nowhere
but over his face ; there the touch, s
finely sensitive in the blind, would fin
all harmonious, all beautiful; and as
with her span, she measured the high
broad brow, she would murmur witl
proud pleasure about his gradually de
veloped intellect, assuring him that
mind like his would eventually triumph
over difficulties, and bear him on to th
honors and the fame which he coveted
Flemming had for some time filled ao
situation in.the orchestra of a minor
theatre. This precarious source of in
come was all he-possessed, and barely
put bread into the mouths of his parent
and himself. His musical talents had
never been appreciated. The fine notes
of his violin, and the highflights of his
tasteful, exuberant fancy, were lost at
the low City Theatre, where the musi-
cians, only intent on striking the vul-
gar ear, blew their trumpets, shrieked
on their clarionets,and beattheir drums,
imagining that the loudest music was
of necessity the best. Who would be-
lieve genius could exist in Fleet-lane ?
or the soul of an Orpheus be enshrined
in a hunchback seated on a broken
stool, amidst squalor and wretched-
ness ?
Flemming's instrument was silent,
his fervor had abated, and his features
settled into their accustomed stillness,
expressive of thought and melancholy.
He remained for several minutes with-
out moving or speaking: and so ab-
stracted was he, that he did not feel
the light passing of fingers over his
face. His mother, stationed Behind his
stool, was bending over him, and those
fingers moved across the cheeks under
the eyes, but chiefly over the forehead.
This was the only method the blind
woman possessed of discovering the
sorrowful or happy feelings which, at
different times, might affect her son, and
it rarely deceived her. She did not
find the traces of tears on his cheek,
and she felt no contracting of the lips
indicating harsh or bitter feelings; but
the brow was gathered in a manner
which plainly assured her that he was
not simply studying music, or reading.
"Now, what ails thee, my boy? You
played that piece exquisitely, and it will
be sure to attract attention."

m    Flemming did not speak,
d    " I know you ought to perform solos
d in order to be judged fairly by the au-
, dience ; but you say they will not per-
e mit this at the theatre."
o   Still the hunchback made no obser-
d vation. The blind woman found his
, hand, which had been buried beneath.
h his waistcoat.
h    " My boy, what means this agitation?
You are in a fever !1
a   "Not of the body, but of the mind,"
said Flemming, at length.
e   " A fever of the mind," repeated the
. mother, in an anxious tone ; " then this
comes of your deep study."I
"It does not arise from that-no,
- no !" The meagre arm rested on the
table, the pale forehead was leant upon
t the hand, and the thoughtful eyes were
I fixed on-the mother's face. That look
of intense sadness turned instinctively
to her-instinctively, for a moment's re-
flection would have told him that is
- sorrows so expressed could not be made
known to one who was blind. Much'
of the same feeling came over the heart
of the great conqueror,* when, his
armies at length defeated, and his em-
pire lost, he turned, in the anguish of
his spirit, though she who had given
 him birth was not there to hear him,
and exclaimed-"My mother! my
mother 1"
"Here are two nosegays," said the
woman, feeling about the table ; " why
have you divided the flowers which
you got for me this morning into two
nosegays? I would rather have had
them in one bunch."
. "One is for you, and one for her,"
said Fle-mming., And his pale cheek
glowed, and his lip quivered.
"One for ier ? Who is that ?"
" For the young lady up stairs."
The blind woman started, but her
surprise soon gave place to anxiety and
distress.
" That young lady, Mark;' she said,
hesitatingly, some sudden and strange-
suspicion having awaked in her mind--
"that young lady, though she is so
poor, though she labors sohard night
and day, is the daughter of a fallen
gentleman-she would not accept your
nosegay."
"I do not mean to offerit to her ; I
only place flowers or ,e ,mantle-shelf
during her absence "
- *
Nar

HESTER SOMERSET.

" Have you done this often before,
then, silly boy ?"
No answer was returned ; therefore
the mother presumed her son had been
guilty of the folly.
" Surely," said the woman, in a
hurried and anxious tone, "you are not
in love with Miss Hestr Somerset ?"
"In love with her ?" said Flemming,
rising from his stools and walking to
and fro in the small apartment ; "it
is not love, mother, which I feel, for the
sentiment I entertain for you is love ;
but it is a hopeless bitter dream, a long-
ing after that which can never be ob-
tained, a frenzy, a consuming fire-a
passion which has no name !"
The -hunchback stopped before the
window, and slightly raised the sash
to let in the air, for he gasped for
breath.
" Mark, you have strong sense, and
an aspiring intellect; 'subdue these
idle feelings, which can only bring
with them disappointment, and embit-
ter-your life.''
It cannot be.  I have struggled
long and much, but the torrent cannot
be stemmed ; I am borne away in the
whirlpool of my mad passion. Do not
reason with me; do not endeavor to
show me my folly,.for I am conscious of
it already-wretched abortion! mise-
rable deformed monster that I am !"
"Hush ! hush!"
"Men regard -me only as an object
of ridicule; women turn from me with
'     horror."
"Pity  me, Mark ! For :my sake,
hush !" cried the mother, clasping her
hands.
''Why fell upon me this heavy curse?
Oh! why, why did I come into the
world ?"
His .hands were pressed upon his
forehead ; his white cheeks, quivering
lips, and straining eyes all evinced the
agony of his working and perturbed
spirit; but these passionate gestures
from the poor mother were kindly con-
cealed ; she could only hear his words
yet they were sufficient to overwhm
her with distress. She strove to sp ak,
but utterance failed her.; yet no tears
filled her eyes. That woman had not
wept for years, for, with her sight,
seemed also to have departed the capa-
bility of shedding those drops which
relieve the heart.
Her arms were now thrown around
the neck of her wayward son-the boy

85

all beauty to her fancy, all perfection
to her partial judgment. She was able
to speak at length, and prayed him not
so to upbraid Heaven, not so to curse
his own -destiny. Then she strained
him to her breast, kissed his forehead,
his neck, his hands, his hair, in all the
wild abandonment and blind devotion
of the mother for her offspring. Wo-
man ! woman! in joy and in wretch-
edness, in youth and in age, who
among God's creatures can love like
thee?
Flemming relented, his heart soften-
ed, and every sentiment of bitterness
vanished. He returned his mother's
fond endearments, beseeching her to
forgive him. The wilder and harsher
passions, indeed, subsided, yet, in spite
of the seeming calm to which he was
restored, an undercurrent of strong
feeling ran beneath the tranquillized
surface ; the eruption was over, but
the lava still boiled'in the dark depth
of the volcano. The love of the poor
deformed for the child of grace and
light, hopeless though it might be, con-
tinued the same.

CHAPTER VII.

THE TWO VILLAINS.
"WHAT    news ?-what have    you
learnt?" asked Hartley of Mr. Pike,
as the latter gentleman entered, the
Templar's chambers. ,With his usual
quiet sneaking air when in the presence
of his superiors, Pike shut the door
after him, placed his hat upon the
ground, and with his red silk hand-
kerchief began to wipe the perspiration
from his forehead. This action, simple
as it might be, was performed so slowly
and quietly, that it spoke better than
words a happy confidence on Mr. Pike's
part, while at the same time he seemed
to say-" I don't mind.~fatigue; I am
most willing to labor, even to the
sweat of my brow, in the service of my
patron." The lawyer then seated him-
self, and significantly smiled.
"Pretty good success, Mr. Hartley,
pretty good ; I have discovered the
place where she lives, and her employ-
ment."
"Very well," said Hartley, nodding
his head; "and where does she re-
side ?"

__  .
asss ck.a-,+s-f  a n

+          .r'r'
.  ,

-e


86

HESTER SOMERSET.

"Not far from her father-in Fleet-
lane."
"And her occupation?"
"To support herself, and supply Mr.
Somerset with a few little comforts in
the prison-for prison-fare, you must
know, is not far removed from starva-
tion."
" Comforts ? supply Somerset with
comforts ?" and Hartley suppressed an
oath.
" She has obtained a situation in a
certain establishment in the west end
of London; they pay her, I learn,
rather handsome wages."
"This will not do !" exclaimed IHart-j
ley ; " my object will be defeated--the
keeping of Somerset upon bread and
water ; for. through him," he added,
speaking in an absent manner, as if to
himself, "I have lost this woman for-
ever. . Have not her anxiety, her love'
for him-ay, for him I destroyed even
her intellect?  Go on, Mr. Pike."
"1I have to tell you a little in addi
tion to this. Not contented with labor-
ing through the day, she sits up half
the night manufacturing purses, for
which she obtains a good remunerating
price at the shops."
"Worse and worse! What can the
miserable child be aiming at?"
Now it was Mr. Pike's interest to
throw as many difficulties and dangers
around the subject as possible, where-,
by he might awaken Hartley's alarm,
and impress upon his patron's mind
how veryvaluable were his (Mr. Pik4's)
services.
"What is she aiming at, ask you,
Mr. Hartley? Ha! I have learnt that
as well 1" exclaimed the little -man,
knowingly shaking his head. " You
will smile, perhaps, when I name the
fanciful, and apparently preposterous
design which this young girl has con-
ceived. A blindowoman in the house,
whose acquaintance I have nIade,- in-
formed me of it, for Miss Hester, in a
moment of childlike fervor, hinted as
much to her. What think you of the
possibility of her saving from her shil-
lings a week a sufficient sum to liqui-
date her father's debt, and so release
him from prison? This, I assure yoti,
is the daughter's grand object, the end
for which she so unceasingly toils."
Allthe bitterness of Hartley's nature
was awakened by these words. The
mere idea of his victim thus, at length,.
escaping from his hands incensed him

to a degree which kindly and forgiving
spirits might, indeed, marvel at. His
hatred had a onenesswhich gradually
absorbed into itself all other passions;
and his vengeance, like some ravenous
vulture, though it constantly devoured,
was never satisfied. The foul bird of
the soul remained there hanging over
the prey, nor would it depart while
one remnant was left for a future
feast.
"The debt," said Hartley, "for
which I detained Somerset in prison is
now 5001. I have taken measures to
influence distant relatives, for near
ones we have none ; therefore I have
no apprehension that the sum will be
advanced him. -wBut, Mr. Pike, do you
indeed imagine it ® possible that the
wretched child can save up the mo-
ney by following the occupations you
name?"
" Can't say," answered the wily; attor-
ney. "Your question is a difficult one
to answer, Mr. Hartley. We have read
and heard of very wonderful things per-
formed by children for their parents,
especially, I may add, sir, by daugh-
ters."
He coughed, and looked obliquely
from out of the corners of his twin-
kling black eyes.
"'We -must put a stop to this," said
Hartley, in a decided tone.
"How? what power may the law
give us to' restrain the actions of this
young woman ?"
" Never mind the law; I tell you we
must stop .this; even if the daughter
should not eventually succeed. in her
aim, the very hope of such a consum-
mation will buoy up the father in pri-
son. A man who has hope burning in
his breast, though it'tells falsehoods,
will never sink, never be crushed."
"He will not. I echo your senti-
ments," said Mr. Pike.
" Then listen. - You seem at a loss to
understand how we shall frustrate this
Hester Somerset's designs,; the thing
may be done in the simplest manner.
Cause her to be dismissed from the
situation she now fills."
" Ha ! truly; that will be striking at
the root-cutting off her chief. re-
source."
" Let your task then be the effecting
of this object."
The little man pondered, leaning his
bristly chin on his bony hand. Good
and virtuous thoughts were passing

HESTER SOMERSET.

through his mind; at least he himsel
thought so. In a few minutes he spok
in a subdt ed tone, his eyes fixed on th
ground:-,
" So, I must devise a plan to csus
and obtain Miss Somerset's discharge
I must be the instrument used in de
feating a virtuous child's pious design
Is this line of conduct consistent wit]
the principles of honor, justice, an
humanity, which, -I am proud to say,
have always advocated? Tell me, Mr
Hartley, is it?"
The   Templar impatiently kicke(
away a stool near him, and-" pshaw'd!'
only - adding, "remember your annu
Mr. Pike turned himself uneasily it
his chair. "Well, let me see. ThI
young lady works so extremely hard
at present, and must do so, if unmter
rupted, for a series of years, that ten
chances to one but her labor will de
stroy her health ; ay, bring on consump-
tion; and consumption in this country
is certain death. What then? the
question is whether a man shall remain
in prison, where he may muse on philo
sophical subjects, and read books all his
ife, or whether a human-being shall
die-prematurely, I say, die, drop into
her grave in her young .and virgin
bloom. Alas l I perceive I must not
hesitate ; I must suspend the labors of
the child and so save her life, while the
father must remain in jail.  This is
humanity -this is justice! this is the
part of a Christian!1-Mr. Hartley, I
will most readily do what you desire."
".Thank you; see that she be dis-
missed from the place, and cast upon
the stream, within a week."
"You may depend upon me. Yes,
yes," added Mr. Pike to himself, as he
walked down the, stairs, " I will save
this innocent female from a prema-
ture grave; it's only my duty."

CHAPTER VIII.

MR. PIKE'S FIRST MANCEUYRE.

IT was a subject of deep regret to
Hester that she was not able to spend
daily a longer time with her father ;l
the prison doors, for the admission of
strangers, did not open before eight in
the morning, and were closed at sunset.

f Her occupation in Regent-street confin-
e ed her from nine to nine ; consequently
e the only time allowed her was in the
morning, from eightuntil half-past, the
e remaining half hour being occupied by
. her walk to the scene of her labors,
- We have been thus particular, because
. on the above apparently trifling cir-
h cumstance hangs an event of no small
d importance. Mr. Pike, from whose
I keen scrutiny little could be hid, when
. once he.resolved fairly to search into
matters, soon made himself acquainted
d with Hester's position. He also learnt
" the rules of the establishment to which
she belonged. One rule in particular, as
expressly calculated to favor his design,
he kept in view ; namely, a workwoman
who was late at her post in the morn-
e ing, and repeated the offence, was sum-
d marily dismissed.
" I think this will do," said the little
gentleman to himself, as he turned his
- plans round and round in the sour
- churn of his mind. "I'll proceed that
way ; it is as good, and perhaps as easy
as any other ; it won't either cause the
poor creature much pain or mortifica-'
- tion, which pis a great poipt gained,
humanity considered ; yes, I'll never
l inflict pain on a fellow-creature; that
is, unless some high moral purpose is
to be served."
Thus soliloquized the casuist of St.
Mary-Axe, as passing down Ludgate-
hill he turned into Fleet-market. Anx-
ious to serve Hartley, and to lose no
time, he- was come to watch the mo-
tions of his unsuspecting victim. Mr.
Pike walked to and fro, at a distance
from the .prison; his hands - in his.
pockets, and his head hanging down.
Every now and then his eyes glanced
toward the prison doors, where he ex-.
peeted the girl would present herself
for admittance, the hour of eight draw-
ing near. No doubt she would come;
Hester never missed coming, in rain, or
cold, or storm-he well knew that.
Even when weak and indisposed, still
she was there, patiently stationed at
the gate, until the regulations allowed
the porter to open it. Oh 1 yes, Pike
knew the strength of a daughter's love,
and built upon7it.
" I see her 1" he . muttered, a smile
puckering up the corners of his long
thin mouth, which seemed to have no
lips ; and then he turned into an alley
on the opposite side of the street to
conceal himself.  Meantime Hester

;"--
,.


88 p

HESTER SOMERSET.

had'approached the gate, and after the
lapse of a few minutes it was opened.
They met-7*the father and child, with
the usual welcomes, the usual inquir-
ies, and the usual fervent embrace.
Such a repetition of endearments might
tire an observer, but themselves it could
never tire. Hester endeavored to im-
press upon her father the excellence of
her situation, but concealed from'him
the knowledge of the fatigue which she
underwent. She said pleasant things
to cheer his heart--pleasant things,
with smiles of hope, and bursts of de-
light, still pointing-to the day when he
should be-free.
Limited, indeed, was the time, as we
l7ave observed, allowed to these inter-
views. The minutes hurried on as if
each had a wing. The hands on the
dial of the prison-clock seemed to pos-
sess a cruelty in them-they moved so
fast.
But the half hour was spent, and she
must not peril her situation, for her
duties demanded her presence in Re-
gent-street at nine. Again the embrace
of affection, a little trembling . of the
limbs, a choking of the voice, but no
tears, these the daughter always spared
the father, and then she hurried away.
Hester had proceeded about half the
distance to the place of her destination,
when she saw a man with a quick step
cross from the other side of the street;
he faced around, appearing to have
missed his way, and then, meeting her,
suddenly stopped. He slightly raised
his large hat, for he recognized Hes-
ter.
" How fortunate I" said Mr. Pike;
"my dear young lady, how fortunate !"
Hester stared at being thus accosted.
" I have wished to.see you above all
things, but knew not where to find you.
My name is Pike-Mr. Pike, the soli-
citor."-
I recollect," said Hester, recover-
ing from her surprise; "you are Mr.
Hartley's attorney."
"Exactly; employed at his suit
against your father, poor Mr. Somerset
-unfortunate, but:noble-hearted Mr.
Somerset. I regret the business sin-
cerely: I bleed for him ; I lament-,his
fate, and-I sympathize with-,you, my
dear young lady; , but it cannot be
helped.-s 1 have acted throughout a
reluctant part; believe me, quite :con-
trary to my feelings.  Alas ! .alas !
such are the unpleasant and sad tasks

which we men of the law are oftentimes
compelled to perform!1"
Hester's interest was awakened, and
there was so -much plausibility in Mr.
Pike's words, and- so much apparent
genuine feeling in his manner, that her
candid heart did not suspect him, She
perceived not ther-fiend in the little,
smiling, insignificant man before her;
she detected not the serpent beneath
the flowers.
" Sir, I am much obliged, and very
grateful for your kind remarks. What
business may you have with me? I am
rather pressed for time."
They had, for a few minutes, been
standing still on the pavement.
" Business? ha-yes," said Pike ;
" rather important business, Miss So-
merset; it concerns the fate of your
poor father. We must arrange matters;
we must get him out of prison."
Hester uttered an exclamatio 1, her
eyes sparkling with pleasure.
" Can this be, sir ?" she cried. "Oh !
there is too much rapture in the thought
of such an event to believe it possible."
" Certainly, it is possible. Why, you
are laboring, are you not, for his re-
lease? excellent, dutiful young lady
that you are.".
Mr. Pike looked at her with his
quick penetrating eyes, and the beams
they shot seemed to enter into her
brain, for she was fascinated, spell-
bound, and could not withdraw her
head.
Your business, sir?" she murmur-
ed. "Will you not kindly talk to me
as we walk along? I must-forgive
me-I must be at Regent-street by nine
o'clock."
Pike took out his watch, looked at
it, and quietly returned it to his fob.
" Nine o'clock-certainly--nothing
like punctuality. I have something
most important to communicate to you,
but it is rather unfortunate that I have
a pressing engagement myself in the
city at the same hour, and I cannot
get off. Suppose, for once, you are a
little after your time ; tell your em-
ployer that. business which respected
your father detained you, and I am cer-
tain she will not find fault. Come,
walk my way."
Hester was at a loss how to acts and
her look expressed extreme uneasi-
ness.
"I'll tell you all as we proceed down
Holborn. ULpon my word, I can't stop

HESTER SOMERSET.

another minute, my engagement in the
city is so urgent. What! your father's
welfare, his very release dependent on
my communication, and still you hesi-
tate ? I did not expect this of you,
young lady.
The last appeal was sufficient, and
it decided Hester. She would break
through, for once, the rules of the es-
tablishment, and so turned back with
the lawyer.
And what was the subject of Pike's
"important communication ?"  What
light or hope did he throw on the dark-
ness of Mr. Somerset's lot? True, he
talked very fast, and he talked a great
deal. He spoke of bills, judgments,
detainers; of sheriff's powers, and
warden' rapacious propensities ; of
plaintiffs and defendants: in a word,
he succeeded in interesting, but, at the
same time, quite puzzled and perplexed
the mind of Hester. She listened and
strove hard to understand him, but it
passed her capacity to do so. The
words "release from prison" were
often repeated, but how that release
was to be effected, Pike, by some
means or other, did not, or could not
explain.
When they reached the Old Bailey,
the attorney said he had finished, and
wished Hester a good morning. All
the way was now to be traced back; but,
this she cheerfully did, and proceeded,
lost in thought, endeavoring by recall-
ing the words of the lawyer, to compre-
hend their meaning.
As soon as Mr. Pike had passed
around the corner, he chuckled to
himself, and again drew forth his
watch.
"'Tis nine o'clock; she will be half
an hour after her time., This is a very
good beginning. Yes, I'll get her dis-
charged within the week."  And then
the little man, quoting some beautiful
moral passage in support of his con-
duct, shot off to his office in St. Mary-
Axe.

CHAPTER IX.

MR. PIKE IS INDEFATIGABLE-A SCENE AT
MADAME MONGOLIE E'S. .
THE following morning saw Hester
Somerset on her accustomed way to the
place where she obtained her livelihood.
7

89

Having passed through Holborn, and
entered Oxford-street, she had proceed-
ed more than two-thirds of the distance,
when a man might have been observed
following her with hasty steps.  He
speedily gained her side, and touched
her arm. Mr. Pike appeared com-
pletely out of breath through the rapid-
ity of his walking, so that, whether
his exhaustion were feigned or not, he
spoke with difficulty.
"Miss Somerset ! Miss Hester Somer-
set 1"
The, girl instantly recognized Mr.
Pike.
"I just entered the prison this
morning to see your father on business.
It must have been a few minutes only
after you left."
"Well, sir ?" cried Hester, startled
by the speaker's manner, for he was in
great excitement.
" He was taken suddenly--"
"Ha 1 what do you mean ?"
" Suddenly ill-ill, young lady-des-
perately ill, and he begged me to hurry
after you-to overtake you, if.possible.
Thank Heaven !" he added, wiping his
forehead, "I have succeeded."
The alarm, the terrible dismay of
Hester, may be imagined, and for an
instant she stood rooted to the spot.
That was not a moment to weigh well
men's words and sift their motives ;
that was not a moment calmly to pen-
etrate the veil of the hypocrite, .or
elude his snares. Judgment was in-
capable of exercising her powers ; fear,
apprehension, and anguish only swayed
her mind.
"Ill -very ill ?" at length she, ex-
claimed. "Will you-call a coach ?"
"Now, can't you walk back to the
prison, dear young lady? I'll support
you," sail Mr. Pike, in his blandest
tone.
"I cannot walk ; I can scarcely stand.
This intelligence is so sudden, so over-
whelming."
Pike perceived her situation ; so, a
hackney-coach-passing at the time, he
lifted. his finger, which sign quickly
brought the vehicle to the pavement.
He assisted her in, but, before he fol-
lowed, took the opportunity of Whisper-
ing into the ear -of the coachman,
"Drive slowly to the Fleet; the young
lady is an invalid, and cannot bear
quick driving."
Hester thought an unusual time had
elapsed; and still they did not arrive at

A :. _                                                    r. a
f4: tn7': i{ +

. ,   } ^
-.


' ± 4

KN"

90

HESTER SOMERSET. --

the prison.  She expressed. her sur-k
prise, but Mr. Pike told her there was
a stoppage of carriages in the street,.
which circumstance annoyed him ex-I
ceedingly. Now he leant out of the
window, and order ed the driver to
proceed another way, of course a
further one, for he (Mr. Pike) was cer-
tain the street before them was being
paved, and consequently the thorough-
fare blocked up. The driver, although
he knew the gentleman was mistaken,
conceiving he had some private reason
for prolonging the journey, implicitly
obeyed the directions given him. Thus,
before the coach drew up in front of
the prison, a very considerable as well
as unnecessary time had passed.
" Here we are," said Pike. -"Now,
get out, Miss Somerset."
" My fare!" demanded the driver,
addressing the gentleman.,F
" No," said the attorney, buttoning
up his coat; " that young lady will
settle with you. 'Tis her business.",
The girl, in her anxiety to join her
father, rushed towards the gate. The
driver followed her.
" Stop, if you please, miss ; the gen-
tleman says you are to pay."
" Pay!" cried Hester, wildly. " Oh!
do not detain me. Where is Mr.
Pike ?"
That individual was moving off.
"I can be of no use to your father,
young lady. I dare say the--the doc-
tor is with him now; besides, I've urg-
ent business."
"My money !" demanded the coach-
man.
"I would pay the fare," said Pike,
"though it isn't my concern, but un-
fortunately I left my purse at home-
good-morning."
"Now, then, miss, if you please !"
repeated' the man, in a rather angry
tone.
"What is it ?" cried Hester, hur
riedly.
"Eighteen-pence; for I must have
something extra, taking you so far
around."-
"Taking us so far around? We
were most anxious to get here."
The man only smiled, still holding
out his horny hand for the demanded
fare. Hester said not anotheraword
ut ill as she could afford it, paid the
m ney, amounting to-one day's wages
an hurried into the prison. Great
was the surprise of Mr. Somerset ai

seeing his daughter return in such an
alarmed and excited state.KAs the
reader will be led to anticipate, the d
gentleman was perfectly well,    or
had he seen anything that day of Mr.
Pike.
Hester was thunderstruck, casting
around her a bewildered look,sand Mr.
Somerset was totally at a loss to con-
ceive what motive the attorney could
have in fabricating such a falsehood.
haWe knowhe is a villain, Hester--a
crafty, designing scoundrel-the tool of
my cruel and unnatural brother Hart-
ley. Yet cheer thee, child; you will
not be imposed on a third time."
"No," said - Hester, confidently.
"But we will talk more of this when
we next meet. I must leave you; for
look, father, at the clock ! I shall be to-
day at Regent-street one hour after my
time."
Hester saw nothing more of her
enemy, Mr. Pike, for a few days - but,,
on the-Saturday morning of the same,
week, just as shehad entered Oxford-
street, where it joins High-street, St.
Giles's, she caught a glimpse of his
thin brown visage. There were several
people standing about ; for St. Giles's
was ever famous for its numerous idlers,
drunkards, and thieves. Hester could
not pass without entering among some
of these people, but she hurried for-
ward with trembling step and averted
head. Presently Mr. Pike might have,
been seen edging towards her. He
walked by apparently with an: absent
air, but, at the same time, brushed-
rudely against her. Then he stopped,
thrust his hands into his pockets, and,
searching them hurriedly, the next in-
stant raised an outcry.
"I am robbed !    I have lost my.
purse !"                    .   --
The men gathered around him, for
the least outcry in the streets of Lon-
don speedily collectsa mob. The cir-
cle of curious idlers enclosed Hester
and Pike, so that the former was
unable to escape, and all were mixed
together.
" Who has robbed you ?" asked, one
man.
"How much have you lost, sir ?"
I demanded another.
,  " I hope you don't accuse me 1" said
e a third, fourth, and fifth, whose shrewd,
, villanous, faces proclaimed them. ac-
t. complished thieves.
t" No, gentlemen, no; I don't accuse

HESTER SOMERSET.

i
4
u
f
F
.3'
F
.k
"
Y"
i
l
'4
1
.,
i
s
,
w:
i
i
s
J

91

you," cried Mr. Pike, gazing around.
"I am sure it was a female who thrust
her hand into my pocket; but she has
escaped; better, perhaps, that it should
be so, poor unhappy creature I I'm not
one, gentlemen, who loves to prosecute
women. Let her go."
"But she 'ain't gone," exclaimed a
man, who rudely laid his hand on Hes-
ter's arm. "I saw this young lass
only a minute ago close by the gentle-
man, and as he passed she seemed to
spring away from him."
" True," observed Pike. "That is
the female. Well, since she has not es-
caped, hold her fast--'tis our duty to
do so. Poor chatureI" added Pike,
shaking his head, his heart melting, it
appeared, with compassion.   " How
young she is, too ! A sad thing tQ turn
thief so early in life ; but, perhaps, she
is starving."
Hester, as much in astonishment as
in alarm, gazed from face to face; she
seemed paralyzed, being unable to
speak; and there, like a condemned
victim, powerless, submissive, she stood
trembling in the ruffian grasp of the
man who had seized her.
"Do you understand, young woman,
the charge against you?" asked the
fellow.
"No," answered Hester, at length.
" What is the meaning of all this ?"
A, horselaugh broke   from  those
around her ; they thought her crafty,
and therefore they laughed. That
mirth to her ear was horrible, and she
shrank away and coveted her face ;
but Mr. Pike now came forward with
a police-constable, who quietly told
Hester that she was accused of robbery.
Then did she comprehend her situation;
her face turned deadly white, and a
shriek sprang to her lips.
"You had better, I think," said
fr. Pike to the constable, "take her
to the station-house at once."
"I robbed a person!     Oh! you
mistake-you mistake ! Hear me-I
am innocent. - I would perish sooner
than be guilty of such an act."
" That's what all you girls say," ob-
served -the constable, calmly. " It
won't do, however. Now just come
along, young woman; it's of no use
struggling." -
" But search me I" urged Hester, in
her agony. " See if I have the purse
in my possession."
"9We'll do that," said the police

., "                                   Jeh _ru                                                                   , 'NVt. h .:f" AFik'tb'PnT.h    4nM4°R                                     °_??; W* ,

functionary, drawing  her forward,
"by and by at the station-house."
"Poor thing !" murmured Pike, fol-
lowing them. " I won't prosecute-
I can't do it--she is so young. We
ought to pity her, gentlemen; however,
the laws must be obeyed."
Owing to the pressure of the crowd,
some time elapsed before they reached
the spot. Moreover, Hester had fainted,
and the constable was obliged to carry
her. When they entered the station-
house, the doors were closed against
the mob. The usual process of reviving
those who faint was resorted to, and
Hester at length opened her eyes and
recovered her senses. The necessary
questions were asked by the inspector
of police, and the search was made ; no
money could be- found upon the girl's
person except one shilling, which her
own poor purse contained. Mr. Pike
and his witness looked confounded ;
the former was peculiarly restless, now
looking into his blue bag, and now
busily hunting again through his
pockets.
"Well," said the ins ctor,'"we
can't find the purse, it is true ; but
this, I am sorry to say, doesn't prove
the young woman innocent. 'Tis an
easy thing to-.drop money when the
theft is found out."
" Or," added the witness, " to slip
it into the hands of an accomplice."
"Hold your tongue !" said the in-
spector, jealous of his prerogative to
offer suggestions. " It isn't your place,
my man, to fancy this, or fancy that ;
you can only answer to facts. Silence!.
This is an awkward case; the gentle-
man accuses the girl of taking his
purse, but the purse isn't to be found
upon her. Now, don't speak," said the
inspector to Hester ; " prisoners are
never called upon to speak here ; be-
sides, perhaps you'd do your own cause
harm.- I think we must lock you up,
and on Monday you.can be examined
before the magistrate."
These were terrible words to Hester ;
her gentle, ,pure, and innocent soul
quailed within her at the thoughts of a
public examination. -But Mr. Pike, at
this juncture, was seen to draw forth
from his deepest pocket a quantity of
papers, consisting of bills, rough drafts
of deeds, writs, and other legal docu-
ments. He hunted among them, and
suddenly starting, exclaimed,
" Surprising! gentlemen; -I am


92                    ESTER      SOMERSET.
thunderstruck: I am overwhelmed with durating nature of his office, he pos-
regret and sorrow. Here's my purse, sessed a warm and feeling heart. She
and the money in it! By some means quitted the spot, and hurried at once
it got into the wrong pocket amongst a to Regent-street; but it was some time'
mass of my papers. The young woman before she was able to collect her
is innocent-I declare her to be inno- thoughts. The past appeared to be a'
cent !"                             dream ; the hour of the day only im'.
The inspector smiled one moment, pressed upon her the conviction that
but frowned the next. He smiled that something wrong had happened. By
Hester, whose youth and beauty had the time,, however, that she reached
impressed him highly in her favor, was Madame Mongolier's her agitation had,
thus exculpated, and he frowned at to a certain extent, subsided.
the conduct of Pike.  -               Hester walked into the large room-
"Sir 1" he exclaimed, "'to say the the room so full, as we have already
least of it, your accusation has been described,.of busy workers. She took,
most hasty : you might have brought her place in her chair, and was medi-
this young lady into much trouble. tating a little speech to address to the
Here, then, the charge is at an end, Frenchwoman, containing a plea for
the affair turning out an entire mis- being so late at her post.. Suddenly
take."-.                            her name was called by that lady,; the
"It is,"- said Pike, " an entire mis- accent was sharp and ringing, and
take."                             seemed to -embody, as well as sounds
"I hope you will make her some could, anger and ill-humor. .Hester
compensation," observed the inspector, instantly stood before Mademoiselle
" for the pain you have caused her." Harfleur, and, anxious and trembling,
"-Certainly," returned Mr. Pike. felt a presentiment of coming evil.
At the same time, he took a half-crown  "Don't be alarmed; I am  never
from his well-lined purse, and offered severe. Permit me, my child, to say
it between his two bony fingers to that this is the third time in one week
Hester. She repulsed the hand in un- you have thought proper to violate the
utterable disdain: upon which Mr. rules of our establishment."
Pike, with feelings ,of great satis-  "Oh ! I confess it," cried Hester,
faction, returned  the coin to  his her eyes filling with tears; "but hear
purse.                              me."
" My heart is wrung at the event of " I have heard you twice," said the
this morning," said Pike, addressing other, coldly. "First, some lawyer de-
the - inspector. "I grieve I should .tamed you with business about your
have committed such, an error ! For- unhappy father, a convict or felon,
give me, dear young lady; the past is whatever you call it, in prison. Next,
ever ; you are innocent, and will bb some man runs after you in the street,-
happy ; but I shall upbraid myself for says that your father has been taken
this terrible mistake as long as I live; suddenly ill, and back you hurry, to,
but then, I = trust, you will ~forgive find, after all, a falsehood has been told
me."                               you. Why, girl, this looks very much
The lawyer bowed; he bowed to all, like falsehood on your own part-
smilir g aplacid, benevolent, half melan- mere stories invented to serve the o,..
holy smile, and the next minute he casion."
left the.station-house. So much .time  "I have spoken the truth, I assure
had been consumed by the proceedings, you. Heaven bear me witness that I
that it was now eleven o'clock.    would not deceive you !"
"Good," muttered Mr. Pike to' him-  " This day, miss, you are later than
self;. " not a :bad ruse; it has worked ever ; more than two hours past your,
pretty well-two hours after her- time time. What have you to say for your-
--capital! We shall see."          self now-?"
The little man, with a, light -heart,  Hester, as well as she could, related'
skipped along the'pavement ; presently the event of the morning, in her inge-
hei mingled with the mighty mass of nuousness hiding nothing. Mademoi-
human beings moving in divers direc- sell Harfleur.did not interrupt her, -in
tions,.and was seen no more. dulging only in those gestures peculiar, ,
The inspector of police kindly ad- perhaps, to her nation ; and which con-
dressed Hester, for, in spite of the in- sisted in raising the eyes, then the

HESTER SOMERSET.

93

hands, and shrugging the shoulders, vicious, fancied she might be some un-
all expressive of surprise, disgust,.and fortunate, ruined and deserted by -her
not a little herror.-               lover, so passed on -in disgust rather
When Hester finished, the French than in pity.
woman was perfectly calm, and merely  But Hester continued to weep and
ordered her to remain there while she to think, three subjects principally oc-
spoke with Madame Mongolier. The cupying her mind-the loss of her
moments during which the forewoman situation, the distress of her father in
was absent appeared to Hester mo- prison, and the villainous acts of Pike.
ments of fate. The Parisian returned,
and was smiling, for, in accordance
with her declaration, she resolved not
to be harsh. Apples, so says the story,        CHAPTER X.
temptingly red on the Dead Sea shore,
but ashes, poison within--such were HESTER SOMERSET HAS TURNED ARTIST-
the sweet smiles of Mademoiselle Har-       HER DEFORMED LOVER.
fleur.; malice and ruin lurked be-
neath !                               HAPPY spirit of the young, though
"My dear young woman,' she began, frail and easily bowed down as the
" you have been a good child in most reed, yet elastic also as that! the winds
things since you have been with us, but of misfortune pass not to rend or to
you have now been guilty of grievous shatter, as the storm crushes the tree
offences-offences repeated three times; of sterner manhood ; for the reed stoops
offences," she added, raising her voice, to earth, and rises again with its soft
against the rules of our house and feathery blossoms uninjured, and ready
which cannot be overlooked. - Besides, to drink once more the fragrant dews of
a young woman connected, like your- even.
self, with an imprisoned felon, hunted  Who is joyful again? Who smiles
by lawyers, taken into custody by the in that little room, the white-curtained
police on a charge of theft-such a window of which looks down into the
young woman, I now think, with the squalid street? Perseverance is Hes-
head of our establishment, is not at all ter's great virtue; she is one never to.
suited to us; therefore we discharge sink-never to relax in her endeavors
you. By these misdemeanors you have -never to despair.    Perseverance !
forfeited the privilege of a week's best friend of man in hours of mis-
notice ; consequently you will leave chance. Perseverance ! that conquers
to-day-yes, this very hour.   Now, when valor fails;-that performs so oft
don't speak ; it is of no use ; but you what genius cannot achieve-the sister
need not be alarmed, for I am never of -Hope, and the mother of Success.
severe; I am always kind to our de-   Hester, seated at her table, was
pendents. Here are your wages for bending over a sheet of drawing-paper,
the past week-take them. Silence ! I for she had resolved on turning artist,
will listen to nothing-now go 1"    Her natural talent for drawing had
When Hester found herself in the been early cultivated. At Brookland
street, ruined, friendless, and thrown Hall, when a mere child, we introduced
again upon the world, she could scarce- her studying her art; then she laid on
ly support herself, but felt a strong incli- 4he magic tints, and made the breath-
nation to sit down upon the first door- ing paper emulate Nature's beauties,
step, and give way to her grief. Her for amusement only. The time had
bosom heaved with sobs which would arrived when she must do this for
burst forth, and she placed her handker- bread. The time had arrived when her
chief to her eyes. But spectacles of sor- father's fate, his very life, seemed 'to
row in the streets of London are of such depend upon the efforts of her pencil.
common occurrence that the passengers  Yet happy looked Hester now, stoop-
took little notice of her. The men were ing at her employment, and beautiful
too busy to care about a young creature as she was happy. The tear recently
in tears. The police told her to " move shed had left no stain on those soft
forward." The girls of her 'own age cheeks ; they might have been thinner
regarded her, butonly for a moment, than in years past, but the excitement
with feelings of curiosity; while the of far-looking visions spread over them
women of mature years, usually sus- a rosy glow.   Her deep-blue eyes

'k,   -   -, ,                                                        . I                                             -   -                                                                         4r-l

,.


94

HESTER SOMERSET.

beamed with liquid light, like those de-- her emotions. Her hand would not
licious patches of heaven seen in April be steady. She was unable to guide
when showers have ceased falling. the brush.
Her head did not now, as once, throw  The girl rose, spoke to her canary-
down its luxuriant ringlets on the draw- bird, and watered her flowers. Gradu-
ing-paper, half concealing the picture. ally her spirit became composed-now
The shining hair was wound back from  she would try. Carefully, slowly, was
the forehead, and bound in a mass be- the outline traced; crisp black curl
hind. No necklace adorned herthroat; after curl encircled the high intellec-
no golden trinkets, which women love, tual brow of the peasant-boy ; the beau-
sparkled on her bosom; poverty forbade, tiful Roman nose-the firm resolute
this: but, instead, Nature's snow shone mouth-again the hand began to trem-
there; the blue wanderin veins marked ble, and lose its command. Leaning
the satin-like skin, and ihe soft breast back in her chair, and dashing the
beat and beat, every throb telling of the fast-gathering tears from her eyes, she
goodness of the young heart beneath; began to sing. At first her voice was
every pulse speaking of virtue.     low and tremulous,- but it gradually
On the table beside Hester lay two gained strength and volume.  The
or three pieces in water-colors, pictures canary, too, in emulation apparently of
of fruits and flowers, a description of its mistress, piped its clear shrill notes.
painting in which she evinced no ordi- A half an hour passed, and the fair
nary talent. A subject of a more am- form again bent over the canvas. The
bitious nature now occupied her; it feelings were subdued now, the diffi-
was a landscape in oil-colors. Fancy culty was conquered, -the task* was
or recollection assisted the young artist, achieved ! The peasant-boy, Ernest
for she had no original from which to Banks, breathed -in the picture, and
make a copy. Already a farm-house the likeness to him whose memory
stood out upon the canvas, such as farm- seemed Hester's second existence was
houses appear in the county of Norfolk, strikingly correct.
consisting of a low, sloping, thatched  The sun had not set when that little
roof, narrow windows, the diamond- landscape, which had occupied her
shaped panes being set in lead, and a during several days, received the last
rude wooden porch, half buried in a touch. And there silently gazed the
mass of creeping plants ; next a-rid, girl on her own finished creation. Mo-
with its quickset hedge, appeared, the tionless and scarcely breathing, she
tenants being a cow, a pony, and a looked like a Diana contemplating, in
goat ; but in one corner of the field the hushed caln of twilight, the sleep-
something now like a human being ing form of her beloved Carian youth;
seemed to grow gradually into life,some- or, like a nun, bending her head in pen-
thing which the artist touched and re- sive devotion before the symbol of her
touched, between each effort placing faith.
down the brush, as if the task demanded  While Hester had been thus employ-
her utmost skill, or deeply affected her ed, another person, in the room below,
feelings.  There was a round coarse had likewise been practising his art. A
jacket, and on the feet were heavy hob- wide difference existed between the
nailed shoes; but the figure vas sym- feelings of Hester and those of Flem-
metrical and erect ; the cap lay upon ming in relation to their respective
the ground; one hand held a spade, but studies. The one regarded painting as
the implement appeared to be dropping a means of livelihood, and of raising a
from it; the other firmly grasped a certain araount of money for an import-
book. All this was- drawn; the open ant purpose; the other studied music
throat, too, was completed, but where for its own sake, fed- and revelled, on
were the features?-a blank still remain- the luxury of sounds, his very soul ap-
edfor them. Hester's breath camequick, pearing to have entered into and ani-
and she leant back, her hands lying in mated the instrument which he played.
her lap, and the lashes falling over her  But the long arms of the hunchback
eyes. She was not busy endeavoring had ceased to draw the bow, whose
to recall an image, for that image was quivering touch, like the wand of an
stamped on her brain and heart too enchanter, could wake into life the
deeply ever to require an effort to re- viewless :spirits of harmony. Unknown
vive it. She was struggling .against to his blind mother, he was crouched

HESTER SOMERSET.

95

upon his stool near the door, which he impatient, but did not move from the
held half open. His black, prominent position he had take. Lightly trip.
eyes, which glittered in strikingcontrast ped down the girl, her straw hat halr-
with his colorless face, were directed to covering her beatifulsta ha af-e
the landing outside. He sat there pa- shawl around her. She reached  er
tiently, but having only one object in hunchback's room,and perceiving he
so doing-the mere hope of seeing in his doorway statederck afew
Hester pass down the stairs. He did steps, uttering  involuntary exelama-
not intend to accost her, for his heart tion,for that spectacle was one more
had never mustered sufficient courage calculated to excite fear than even to
to do that; he would be content simply raise pity in the breast of a woman.
with, looking at her, and breathing The trembling, slapeless limbs; the
after her a prayer that Heaven would white face, at times expressively hand-
continue to shield her, and grant suc- some, but now wild and haggard; the
cess to an undertaking which, to all eyes gleaming with an unnatural fire;
human calculations, appeared hopeless., the look of despair breathing from the
Hour after hour passed ; the blind whole countenance : these formed a sad
woman had fallen asleep in the corner, -an appalling picture, which well
and still Flemming continued at his might cause Hester to shrink and hur-
post. He held a small nosegay in his ry away with quickened step.
hand--for no opportunity had been
given him that day of placing it in
Hester's room--the flowers, in the hot
straining grasp, had withered, and they       CHAPTER XI.
fell over the long lank fingers, their
freshness and beauty gone. The hunch- THE GREAT HOSPITAL ACROSS THE WATER.
back gazed on them, smiling bitterly,
as he shook their limp leaves and mise-  As the wayfarer passes up Black-
rable petals, and then he flung them friars-road, and pauses by the Obelisk,
upon the floor. Such was he, thought raised, it is presumed, in proud imita-
the poor wayward being, in the hands tion and rivalry of the great Obelisks of
,of destiny: a crushed, bowed, withered- Luxor, that tower over the Theban
up thing ; and it was fitting that men, ruins by the " sedgy Nile," he finds
too, should cast him in contempt away. himself in the- centre of six roads,
Flemming stooped forwards, and several of which lead directly to the
placed his ear against the wall to listen. great metropolitan bridges. His'eye,
Hester did not move, and all was si- at this point, is irresistibly attracted
,fence, except that occasionally were by the architectural magnificence of a
heard the coarse tongues of some lodgers very noble building. A lofty dome,
on the floor beneath. Her light step now  pierced by long-arched windows, is the
crossed the room, and his heart palpi- distinguishing portion which, in the
tated. Presently she commenced that' distance, he beholds ; and, at first, he
sweet air which we described her as feels almost inclined to believe that the
singing for the purpose of tranquillizing cupola of St. Paul's has, by some magi-
her feelings. As Flemming listened to pal power, been suddenly transported
the low gushing voice, which, soft as a across the water. Passing down Lam-
silver bell, 'rang from the squalid apart- beth-road, in which thoroughfare the
meant, his emotion increased. All sen- edifice is situated, he approaches a vast
sibility, all fire, and possessing little umbrageous area planted with trees and
power- of governing the passions, that flowers, and fenced around by lofty
poor deformed was a very, martyr to the iron rails imbedded in blocks of granite.
impulses of the spirit. His lips open, He looks within, and, if it be spring or
his eyes straining, and his lean, mis- summer, nothing will be more fresh
shapen body bent forward, he drank in and exhilarating than the scene. To
the sounds, as .though each note were square in the aristocratic West End
intoxication, or a maddening poison surpasses in neatness and beauty these
which he was compelled to swallow.  gardens.  In front of the building
Hester, having finished her painting, spreads a large circular grass-plot,
was now going out on an errand. Her shaven close, and green as an emerald,
door opened-her step was on the a wide gravelled walk stretching around
stairs. Flemning heard, tremblingly it, from the stone lodge at the entrance,

G-S"4---    -- ----      - -    sy.                                     s         ..
7 rrKv.;sr sc tSSa-rte                               e .:.^xz^.r a

oh


96

HESTER SOMERSET.

to the portico of the house. On the
right and left, the grass forms an ex-
tensive sweep, relieved by beds filled
with choice flowers ; while trees of
various descriptions, from the laurel and
silver fir to the ash and lime, beautify
the grounds, and offer their grateful
shade.
All this is rendered doubly pleasing
and delightful, inasmuch as the scene,
though not in the most thickly popu-
lated'district, is still in dusty, smoky,
busy London, some of the very worst
and most squalid streets lying in the
immediate neighborhood.
But the edifice itself now strikes the
beholder. The size is at once apparent,
and much exceeds that of the National
Gallery, or the Royal Palace at Pimli-
co. Yet the magnitude of the building
does not detract from its beauty. The
far-stretching balustraded wings are in
perfect harmony with the grand centre.
The Ionic portico of six columns, sur-
mounted by a handsome pediment, in
the tympanum of which are displayed
the royal arms, has a very airy and
elegant effect. -Immediately above rises
the majestic doie already alluded to.
And who occupies this edifice ? or
for what design was it raised ? Curious
questioner, do not start, do not turn
aside in dissatisfaction, and say, "Can
so muchbeauty be appropriated to such
a purpose ?" It is not a house of jus-
tice; it is not a convent of nuns, fast in-
creasing as convents are in England ; it
is not a musical hall; it is not a theatre ;
it is a hospital for the diseased in
spirit-it is a madhouse !
A madhouse--the very word chills
our hearts ; we can enter, without be-
ing appalled, a hospital where bodily
tortures wring the sufferers, and death
seems to breathe in every low and sti-
fled groan. But to walk through the
place where the inmates exhibit the
sickness of the soul, the godlike intel-
lect wrapped in darkness, we shrink
with a feeling somewhat, akin to that
we might experience if brought in con-
tact with disembodied spirits.
Away ! it is an illusion-a morbid
fancy that cheats us: there is nothing
in'the spectacle of our rained brother
which should excite such sentiments.
Pity, treat kindly, but fear not the in-
sane.
Bethlem Hospital, which derives its
name from the Convent of Bethlehem,
founded in 1247 by Fitz Mary, a citi-
zen of London, on the nprth side of the

Thames,. is one of-the most famous
institutions of its class in England.
The arrangements now, and the treat-
ment of the insane, differ very widely
from the system prevailing even forty
years ago. Then chains clanked, and
the frequent scourge raised dolorous
cries through, the galleries and cells of
those  melancholy abodes.*    In the
present day mildness and persuasion,
rather than force, characterize the treat-
ment here, as well as elsewhere. The
men, those at least whose insanity is of
a harmless description, are allowed to
amuse themselves in divers ways ; they
play at trap-ball and leap-frog in the
airing-grounds ; the women are en-
couraged to employ their time in needle-
work; and occasionally the younger
ones may be seen, on a fine evening,
on the great grass-plot in front, practis-
ing . those dances which, unforgotten
amidst the wanderings of a clouded
intellect, have still power to harm the .\
female heart.-'                  .
But we must not suppose, because
all smiles and beauty without, Bethlem
Hospital. within manifests little now
but scenes of tranquillity and happi-
ness. Those iron bars which fence all
the windows in the male and female
wings, for so are the extreme portions
of the building termed, betray that the
mad there will shatter and destroy.
Those massy stone cells in the base-
ment story, appropriated to the furious,
send forth still, in the dead of night,
howlings that may wellfreeze the blood.
The long galleries on the second floor
contain the hopeless and - melancholy,
whose faces, looking as if turned to
stone, chill the beholder into awe.
It was about three in the afternoon,
at the date of our narrative, when a
young woman presented herself at the
gates of the asylum. The grounds
then were not so extensive as they are
at present, nor was the lodge,which we
now see, built. The woman appeared
well known to the porter, and he silent-
ly admitted her. She was dressed in
mourning, and her eyes expressed a
deep, but quiet sorrow-the woman
* Thegreat reform in Englishlunatic asylumsbe-
gan4s .16. The following is an extract from the
Report o he Committee appointed byParliainent to
investigate the treatment practised in these prisons
prior to 1814: " One of the side rooms in the wo-
men's gallery contain-ed ten patients, each chained
by one arm or leg to the wall, the chain allowing
themamerel to stan upt h bench fixed anst
the feet being naked."-

HESTER SOMERSET.

was come to see her husband. In a
few minutes another personfollowed-
a man. His worn and haggard look
betrayed a grief very different from the
sorrow of the woman. His soul was
the prey of remorse, and he visited the
place to inquire respecting a young
girl whom he had loved, but forsaken;
his conduct towards her had destroyed
her intellect.
A pause ensued, during which the
porter sat on his bench in the sun. He
had long ago, ceased to be affected by
the anguish of the visitors, or the
scenes of woe and fear which took
place within the walls. So there he
sat, admiring 4 flower with which he
had garnished the button-hole of his
coat, knocking his heels together, or
humming a low song.
The porter arose with his keys, for
another applicant for admission stood
at the iron gate. The old man smiled
now as he espied a young face between
the bars, fresh as the freshest flowers
he could boast in his gay asylum-garden,
yet pale and sorrowful, too, as they
appear when drooping in the moonlight,
all steeped with the tears of night.
" So,.miss, you are come again, are
you? Ha ! I fear I let you in too
often."
"The matron will not be angry, nor
any person here, I am sure," said Hes-
ter. "I have a written order for ad-
mission."S
" Oh! I don't doubt your order,"
said the porter. "(ome in, my dear
young lady ; it. does one's heart good
to see you ; the image you are of my
own poor child, who, if she were living
now, would be just your age. Heaven
restore your poor mother, my dear ;
they say-  "
"What.?" asked Hester, eagerly.
"That she's- better."
"Heaven bless you !" cried Hester,
taking the old man's hand between her
two little ones. The girl's heart was
full, and she hurried towards the asy-
lum.                             '

CHAPTER XII.

HESTER AT BETELEM HOSPITAL.

How small looked the slender figure
of Hester as she mounted the stone
steps, and. paused for an instant be-

9T

neath the lofty portico ! She entered
the hall where the two fine statues of
" Raving aid Melancholy Madness"-.
the work of Cibber for the old hospital
-looked down upon the visitor. But
Hester was familiar with the place, so
she commenced at once ascending the
stairs to. the second floor, where pa-
tients whose insanity isof a harmless
nature are confined.
Meantime, we will glance down one
of the galleries, some of which are of
great length, opening on each side into
rooms and dormitories. We are in-
duced to follow the woman in black,
who had arrived at the hospital a short
time before Hester. She paused before
a cell, the occupant of which was af-
fected at times with fits of madness of a
furious description, and therefore he
was lodged on the basement floor. The
woman now, with her dark veil thrown
back from her face, sat tranquilly on
the outside of the bars, looking at her
husband. The man within was walk-
ing to and fro, and did not appear to
notice her.  His garments were com-
posed of a coarse stuff, like sacking, so
that the material being very strong he
was unable to rend them. His beard
was long, for he would allow no one to
shave hini.  Beheld in certain posi-
tions, his face was handsome, and had
a highly intellectual cast. In a corner
of the cell laya bundle of green rushes,
for he was continually calling for
rushes, and when the keepers- refused
to supply him he became furious.
Stooping now, he gathered up a few in
his long fingers, and began busy
weaving them into a circlet. In a few
minutes his task was completed, and
the maniac, placing his rush crown
proudly on his head, strode up to the
front of the bars.
"Yes, I will wear it," he cried, ex-
ultingly. "If the world will not crown
me with the bays of Parnassus, I will
crown myself. Petrarch was crowned
by the senate in the eternal city of
Rome ; and for what ?-inditing a few
love-songs-,childish, idle rhymes--ha !
ha! ha !-songs -one might write in a
few minutes at the breakfast-table.
Oh ; monstrous absurdity! and I who
have toiled for years on works of phi-
losophy, written dramas, romances,
and poems longer than the 'Paradise
Lost,' have gained no crown, no ap-
plause, andiot even known to exist."
Rage began to gather in his flashing

"' "  7- .i7  __'"^_ .F~tr:~t,'. . -   -                                     1-+; _

i       ZM"        j   v

:.  :   _             ,.                                                              1 .       .i',,,.  x
,.
,,  °
'.                                 .,                 ..


.4

4

98   +    HESTER SOMERSET.

eyes, and he struck the floor with his for that-it was not written by Pope
foot.                              or Byron."
"But here is my crovn ! I say I    "Both books, Walter, have sold
will crown myself.  Ha ! you are the rapidly of late, so that they have now
company, are you," he added, looking reached a second edition."
at his wife," come to witness this coro- The words " second edition," which
nation, this apotheosis ?  Well, what had never before sounded in the neg-
do you see?   Where is the king? lected author's ears, in connection with
where are the ministers of state ? I his own works, had a magical effect
am to be the Petrarch of England." upon him.. He sprang to'the bars, his
He suddenly turned around, tearing face radiant with smiles, and his limbs
the rush   circlet from  his  brow. trembling with joy.
" Away ! this is not fitting : I am  . " A second edition !" he cried breath-
mocked; the world will not admit my lessly. " Is it true ? Are they, then,
claims ; the critics jeer at me ; people at length beginning to discover that an
will not look into my books to judge obscure man may possess a little talent?
for themselves. They are hoodwinked, My works sell-sell?-reach a second
led like mere children, and told to ad- edition ? I cannot believe it."
mire a few poor idle drivellers-authors  The wife, who had practised a harm-
without genius, education, or brains ; less deception, by causing the words
and I must write, toil, and die, un- "second edition" to be stamped on the
known, without a monument, without title-page of the books named, presented
an epitaph, without' a tear on my them through the grate. The insane
grave !"                           author, looking at them, and espying
He clenched his hand, and, raising it the welcome words, fell into a fit of
in the air, shook it at some imaginary rapture and ecstatic happiness, which
object, and then the unhappy man evenconveyed a pleasure to the wife's
rushed around his cell, howling in- desolate heart.
cessantly as he went.                Neglected author! farewell, poor
"I must die unknown, without a broken reed! the immortal intellect thus
monument, without an epitaph, with - crushed by injustice, and darkened by
out a tear on my grave !"          despair. - The -intoxication of sudden
"Walter !" said the, wife, mildly, renown 'is'said sometimes to turn the
lifting her finger, and looking fixedly brain ; the opposite extreme drove thee
at him-" Walter !"                 mad.   What now may bind up -thy
"Who calls ?" cried the man, stop- wounds ? what bring back'the glorious
ping in his swift circles ; " I know that visions of poetry, and the warm gush-
voice: what do you want ?"        ings of love? The enchanter's wand
"You are mistaken, dear Walter ; is shivered-the fountain is dried for-
your works are read ; you have a name ; ever.
you have renown in the world."       But we must follow Hester to the
"A name ! renown! No, no; these second story, where the quiet and harm-
are not for me: and yet I pant for them less patients are lodged, and where in-
-I die to gain them."              sanity takes a gentle form which de-
" I speak the truth ; you are renown- prives it of its terror. The rooms open-
ed," said the persevering wife; "only ing into the galleries are of a more
you will not believe it."          cheerful description ; no straw, no
" Now, you make my heart leap clanking chain, no scourge, are found
within me," exclaimed the'poor maniac, here as in ancient days ; but neat pal-
a smile breaking over his worn pallid lets, chairs, and tables are seen, with
face.                              books, draft-boards, skeleton-maps, and
"Why, look, Walter! in confirmation other things calculated to engage and
of my words, I bring this book; it is soothe the minds of the various in-
your 'Treatise on the Figed Stars.'". mates.
"Oh, my 'Treatise on the Fixed     As we pass along, we see the young
Stars!' Nobody looks at it, because it man who had followed the woman in
is not written by Herschel."       black into the asylum. His heart is
"But they do look at it. And here relieved of a part of its load, and his
is another-your long Oriental poem, late haggard features are softened and
'The Pilgrim of India.' "          tranquil. The girl he had loved, but de-
"Ay, ay; the same answer will do serted from mercenary views, is daily

HESTER SOMERSET.

improving; she has raved less of his
cruelty ; her thoughts have more coher-
ence, and her affections seem wander-
ing back to their former channel ; she
now leans on his arm, and her sleepless
eyes, that lately burned with fire, are
filled with tears. Low, soft, endearing
words are breathing from her lips,
which assume again their fresh coral
hue. How plaintively fall those tender
accents !
"My heart was broken, but it may
yet healif you never forsake me again.
You were a heaven to my miserable
lost soul, and still I am  yours, only
yours, in time and eternity. My brain
wanders-I am mad--I am lifted above
the earth-but still my madness is love
for you. Then say'you will not fly
from me ; let me live here, here in your
bosom, my home, my palace, my de-
fence, my all. And if you will not take
me as a wife, let me be your servant---
a faithful dog following your footsteps
.- a bird-anything rather than be
sent away. Do not, oh, do not cast me
from you !"
Then the fair arms were thrown
around him, and passionate entreaties
were poured forth, with the wild apos-
trophes of the still unsettled spirit.
Woman ! beautiful thou art in thy love-
ly and loving nature, even in madness.
The intellect may be a wreck,,the high
aims of life forgotten, and religion blot-
ted out from the frenzied soul; but what
shall quench the enduring spark of the
affections?
Hester crept towards the door of the
small room in which her mother was
confined. The people of the asylum
well knew her, and therefore she had
been allowed to pass unquestioned.
The door in a few minutes wassopened
by the nurse.
Mrs. Somerset, we have elsewhere
observed, had always been in her de-
portment tranquil and reserved, while
her beauty was of that description
which may be termed the dignified.
She appeared now to be in a state of
apathy, leaning back in an easy chair,
with her feet on a stool. Her cheek
was colorless ; her hand, which dropped
over the chair-arm, was cold as ice:
and her eyes listlessly wandered from
object to object. She rarely whispered
to herself, as the insane are accustomed
todo'; nor were any gestures made by
her, except that occasionally she would
raise her right'hand, and wave it im-

99

periously, as if repulsing some object;
at the same time, her face would as-
sume a severe, even fierce, expression,
and she would mutter, "Fiend, fiend !
thine is not love !" These were the
only intelligible words she had spoken
for a month, but they had been repeat-
ed every day.
Such was Mrs. Somerset, still stately
in her bearing, and handsome in her
person, though the fine threads of the
brain had become entangled, and the
mind paralyzed by suffering, the work
of him who sought revenge, and had
gained it-Roland Hartley.
Hester approached without speaking,
and seated herself close by the chair
of her mother. She glanced at her by
stealth, and asked questions in whis-
pers of the nurse. A slight but favor-
able changed seemed to have taken
place in the invalid ; her manner was
less abstracted, and there was more in-
telligence in the expression of the face.
For a very long period the mother had
not returned any direct or reasonable
reply to the daughter's inquiries, and
she seemed to have lost all recollection
of events, persons, and things, being
dead to the living world.
"Mother!" Hester ventured to say,
taking the hand of ice, and kissing it.
That word, associated in woman's
heart with so many sweet and holy
feelings, evidently affected Mrs. Somer-
set, for she raised her head, and gazing
around, faintly exclaimed,
"Mother ! What does that mean?
Who calls?"
The gentle appeal was repeated.
"I know that voice. Girl, who are
you? -What do you want?"
This gleam of reviving sense filled
Hester's heart with hope and pleasure.
" I am your daughter-your child,
Hester."
"Hester !" said the poor woman,
placing her hand on her forehead, and
beating rapidly with her fingers, like
one who strives to rouse dormant
memory. "I think I have heard that
name before. Yes, Brookland Hall-
Hartley-no, "Hugh, Hugh."
"Hugh," repeated Hester, desirous
of leading her on to talk of Mr. Somer-
set. " Father is quite well."
4 Who is well? I wish I was, for I
nearer sleep. Ten thousand figures are
dancing before my eyes, and a fire is
always -burning here -here, in my
brain." -

Now, 'Ar.


,'

100

HEST.ER SOMERSET.

'
a
K

:'

CHAPTER XIII.

"You sleep at night, dear mother ?"
"I never close my eyes. I have not
slept for two years. Oh, no !-I shall
never sleep- again." She lifted both
her hands, and repeated: "Never sleep
again, until my bed is the grave."-
There was a pause ; Hester leant
forward, and covered her face - she
then heard her mother move7aew
steps from her chair, and, turning, saw
her gesticulating in the manner al-
ready mentioned. _ Alas ! a lucid in-
terval was notyet come. The unhappy
woman waved herihand, slowly moving
backwards as she spoke:-
"Hypocrite! I defy thee-! Monster!
work out thy revenge ! All the fiends
below have entered into thy soul-but
I defy thee!"
Her hands, as if suddenly arrested,
remained above her head ; her teeth
were set ; her black eyes were dilated,
and darted fire ; her high brow con-
tracting, seemed to speak indignation;
her look was beautifully terrific-=the
look of the Pythia, when, on the Del-
phian tripod, she delivered her oracles
in passionate inspiration and poetic
madness.
The daughter approached the mother
as the latter stood in that fixed attitude;
and the young, fragile girl hung upon
her arm, and looked piteously into her
face.
"Be calm, mother-you remember
me now.".
The stately lady looked down upon
her child with a meaningless stare.
The large eyes were fixed upon her,
yet Hester did not turn away in fear.
Gradually the eyes resigned their fero-
cious expression, and the pallid, face of
the maniac stooped nearer. The lips
moved, but the low   murmurs did
not shape themselves into articulate
words.  A. softened expression stole
over the countenance, and the arms
falling, slowly enfolded the form of
Rester. The light of old affection was
gleaming through the mist of forgetful-
ness ; the heart was struggling with the
brain. Close, more closely, the parent
strained her child to her breast; in spite
of rebel Reason, omnipotent Nature
claimed her sway; and Mrs. Somerset
found in Rester something she had
known and lost, though unconscious
where - something which s4e loved,
yet knew not why.

HESTER SOMERSET.

HESTER AMONG THE PICTURE-DEALERS.--
THE BROKER oF THE "SEVEN DIALS,"
THE INGENIOUS "MAKER OF THE OLD
MASTERS."
IT was about eleven in the forenoon,
when the light figure of Hester might
have been seen gliding along Fleet-
street. Under her arm she carried a
small portfolio, which contained the
produce of a fortnight's artistic labor,
consisting of four pieces in water-colors,
and the little oil landscape of which
we have had occasion to speak. She
had toiled exclusively on these draw-
ings, having suspended even her night-
ly occupation of netting purses. To
equal, therefore, her' former gains, and
defray the expense oficanvas, paint, and
paper, it was necessary that she should
receive for her performances about
three pounds.
On Hester tripped, anxious to learn
what success might await her new
speculation. Reaching the entrance of
the Temple, where the old doors open
upon Fleet-street, she turned pale, and
trembled. The image of the dreaded
Hartley within those walls seemed to
rise before  her.  Mechanically she
crossed to the opposite side, and looked
over her shoulder, to see that he was
not actually following her ; and this
natural gesture of fear.was continued
until the black arch of Temple Bar
having been passed, that massy relic
of by-gone days concealed Fleet-street
and the Temple from'her sight.
The first shops that Hester entered
were those of fancy-dealers,' whose
windows displayed an endless variety of
articles of an ornamental nature. Some
of the shopkeepers treated her with*
neglect, and a few with rudeness. In
one place, however, she met with court-
esy; the master was an elderly man,
and, looking kindly at the vendor and
her wares, expressed an inclination to
become a purchaser. With his spec-
tacles on his nose, he scrutinized the
flower-drawings, smiled, shook  his
head, but still his look was very bene-
volent.
Pretty well-may do for screens,"
said the fancy-dealer. " Many nice
touches ; must have taken you, miss,
some time. Sorry we can give so little
for these kind of things now; but the
fact is, so many artists in the field."

101

t I do not expect a high price," said
Hester.
.Right - sensibly spoken.  High
price ?-no, indeed.  But let me see,
you shall have their worth-that is, the
trade price.  Two fruit pieces: two
flower ditto. I'll give you a shilling
each."
Hester's blank countenance express-
ed surprise and sorrow.
"You don't speak, my girl. Isn't it
enough ?"
" The paper ;alone cost me half the
money. If I sell them at the price you
name, I shall have labored five days
for two shillings."
"Sorry for that, my dear child, but
must learn to paint faster. Quantity,
swiftness, that's the order of the day-
ha, ha, ha ! But come, won't be hard,"
added the man, taking out five shil-
lings from his till ; " say three pence
more-fifteen pence apiece-therec!"
Little as this was, Hester, fearful she
might be offered even less elsewhere,
received the money with an inward
sigh, and, returning her quiet thanks,
stepped out of the shop.
Her chief hope remained-her oil
landscape, representing the Norfolk
farm, the cattle, and the peasant boy.
This might set all right, and handsome-
ly remunerate her for her labor. There
was no lack of picture-marts; the
Strand, Pall Mall, Piccadilly, were
dotted with then; they abounded in
every street ; but their showy entrances
abashed and daunted Hester, and it
*as some time before she could muster
sufficient courage to open one of the
high glass doors.  At length she en-
tered a shop in Piccadilly ; it displayed
bright new paintings, and dingy old
ones, and was garnished with great
gilded, staring frames.  Hester, in
nervous agitation, approached him who
appeared to be the master, but her
hand trembled to such a degree that it
was with difficulty she could unie her
portfolio, and produce her painting.
As the "great dealer," the man of
Titians, Claudes, and Dominichinos,
took the landscape into his hand, he
just glanced at it, and then politely
asked the name of the artist.
"Oh ! yourself," said the gentleman.
4I confess I never heard of your name
before;" and a look of surprise over-
spread his dark and solemn'face. Hes-
ter considered this -a good omen; he

n,            -    ,.y.a....a v               -,              s.. .ti.                              i...,

might be surprised that an obscure girl
could produce the painting he saw.
The connoisseur, whose dignity per-
mitted him to utter but a few words,
returned the landscape with one hand,
and, with the other, pointed at his
glass door.' "Good-morning," he said.
" Do you not purchase paintings,
then?"
"Certainly we do."
"Will you not kindly offer some-
thing for mine ?"
The look of surprise increased, and
the eyes opened to a staring width.
"I am astonished, young woman,
at your asking such a question. Don't-
you know great firms, like' ours, never
buy obscure pictures ? We sell nothing
but first-rate names, and therefore; of
course, cannot purchase any   but
them."
tm""I -don't say,"' observed Hester;
rather puzzled by the gentleman's
words, that mine is a good painting;
but this, perhaps, is your meaning--
however good my performance might
be, you could not purchase it."
"Certainly n t."
"Is that picture," asked Hester,
emboldened, for her spirit was rising
-is' that little picture which I see;
against the wall yonder by a high
name?
It was a small landscape, somewhat
resembling her own, except that the
farm-house ,was one daub, the cattle'
like round red spots of ochre 'dropped
at random on the canvas, while the
figures resembled orang-outangs rather
than human beings. The gentleman,
the servile worshipper of fashion and
names, gravely told her the landscape
was invaluable-worth at least five
hundred guineas ; it was a real-.
Rester could not recollect the Dutch-
man's hard and barbarous name; she
only felt assured that, were the picture
by her hand, the highest sum she should
dare-ask for it would be about asmany
shillings as the dealer asked hundred
guineas. Alas ! she had yet'to learn a
stern lesson,, and become acquainted
with a most -melancholy prejudice
which prevails;in the world of art.
Paintings are rarely or never judged
by their intrinsic merits, but are valued'
in an exact proportion to the notoriety
or fame .attached to the party by whom
they may happen to be drawn. A
very memorable instance of this truth
some time since occurred; whehia com-

n
g
h
t
pA
3
{g
g6Y
,i


HESTER SPMERSET.

102

HESTER SOMERSET.

11

.
z
a
r .
r
e

mittee of "enlightened men," great
critics and judges of the fine arts, pur-
chased for our National Gallery, at the
cost of many hundreds of pounds, a pic-
ture said to be a real Holbein. In a
few months this painting was discover-
ed to be not a real Holbein. There it
hung, its merits, if it possessed any,pre-
cisely the same as-before the discovery,
the difference only existing in the feel-
ings of the trustees. It was without
delay degraded from its place, cast forth
in scorn, and the- picture for which
nearly a thousand pounds,.we believe,
had been given, would not now very
probably fetch the sum of one guinea.
The connoisseur of Piccadilly, deigning
not to say another word to Hester,
again stretched his ringed hand towards
the door, and the fair artist, convinced
that any further appeal would be use-
less, quitted the, room  of renowned
names and enlightened criticism with a
heavy heart.)
Other picture establishments in the
neighborhood Hester in turn visited;
but the same answer, varying only in
the mode of expression, was given her
as by the connoisseur of Piccadilly.
We do not say her painting was a fine
one; it was only a passable performance
by a young hand; but had its merit
been great, its fate, we believe, would,
under the circumstances, have teen
precisely similar. She was advised to
apply to a small broker, pnd this, in-
deed, was the best course the poor girl
could now pursue. Already exhausted
by her long and weary journeyings to
and fro, we see her passing through sun-
dry narrow and dirty streets in the vici-
nity of Covent Garden. At length she
perceives the name of a certain street,
which, forgetting its previous crooked-
ness, runs in a direct line to a. point
where seven other streets meet, giving
to the locality the picturesque name of
the " Seven Dials." .
" Ah i this is the place," said Hes-
ter, to herself; " I shall find the shop
they spoke of here."
Ina-few minutes she paused before
a house, the front of-which, protruding
rather beyond its fellows, formed a
shop of .a very, singular description.
Old spinets were here mixed up with
cane-bottomed chairs; dingy tables and
rusty fire-irons were relieved by pieces
of bright-colored carpet, all warranted
nearly new. Monsters, and curiosities,
in the shape of serpent's skins, stuked

103

monkeys, and-one real alligator's mail-
like case, hung from the ceiling. The
display of pictures, too, was consider-
able. Old and new, oil and water-
colored, little and great, were piled up,
and suspended on the walls in beauti-
ful confusion. Hester entered this em-
porium, and, advancing a few steps,
perceived a, man sitting in the centre
of the room on a low stool. His coat
was off; his legs, for ease and comfort,
were hoisted upon a neighboring chair,
and he was quietly smoking a pipe. His
sallow cheeks, his eagle nose, and the
crafty but very intellectual expression,
of the dark eyes, betrayed him to be a
member of that wondrous family-the
people who have preserved their reli-
gion and their personal characteristics
unchanged, through all their troubles,
their wanderings, and the persecutions
.which have assailed them, since the
age when hoary Nile saw the mighty
Pharaohs enthroned on his banks.
Mr. Methuselah Moses,y perceiving
Hester enter with her portfolio, partly
guessed her business. He did not rise {,
from his stool,.but merely nodded his
head, and continued his smoking, so
that the-white and odorous vapor, issu-
ing at stated periods from one drawn-
down corner of his mouth, mounted
in picturesque wreaths, half veiling his
large hooked nose, -and hanging like a
crown of glory above his head.
"You purchase pictures, I believe ?"
began Hester, hesitatingly,     4
" Purchase?  Certainly, my dear ;
yes, yes, yes," answered Mr. Moses,
with a sharp nasal twang ; " but I
would rather sell, any day-rather sell;
yes, yes.'-
"I have a small oil-painting, repre-
senting a landscape in Norfolk-"
" Well, never mind where the land-
scape is, let's see it," said the Jew,
holding his pipe .in his left hand.
Hester opened her portfolio, and gave
the painting to .the broker. As his
sharp eyes scrutinized the piece, he
nodded his head briskly, and smoked
with quicker and-more ferocious puffs.
"What d'ye call this?-oil-painting.
What master is it after ?-Gainsbo-
rough, Moreland, Cuyp, or Teniers ?"
"I have copied it from no master ; it
is my own."
" So much the worse. Buy?     I'd
rather sell, I say-rather sell. Young
Woman" he added, waving his hand in

i
w
3
s
s
x
s
1
3
i
3
i
i
x
gp
C

"'      Y "  .                             °
..-,gee~-.,,-'  . . .-.  -  .-..a. .tir. ":. '...::   ..y.    -   -        ]d--                                   -              i eSv:: acr*,t w fwr0

4

a dignified manner, "look around you;
these are pictures."
Hester cast a melancholy glance in
the direction intimated. What to her
were the broker's pictures, good or
bad? they would not put bread into
her mouth, or assist her in her grand
design of releasing her father from
prison. Oh! she felt she was toiling'
for something dearer, holier far than
fame.
"Real ones, a'n't they ?" said the
Jew ; " and all done by the right
masters: yes, yes, yes. That's a Cuyp,
that's a Teniers; and that's a Moreland.
Ho ! ho ! I've got them !"
"Strange," thought Hester, as she
stood musing for a moment; "here, in-
this mean shop, I find the same spirit
actuating the owner as prevails in the
fashionable marts of St. James's ; the
same bowing down to names ; the same
hero-worship ; man the very slave of
prejudice and fashion, and wholly un-
able, or, if able, not daring, to. form a
judgment for himself."
" Ah ! could you come up to that
Teniers, now-"     The Hebrew sud-
denly checked himself, and rose from
his stool. "But 'tis of no use talking.
You want to sell the picter ?"
" Yes, I do."
"Well, listen to me," pursued Mr.
Moses, after he had meditated for some
minutes. "You don't want ability, I
think; but this piece, fair little laad-
scape as it is, done by a modern, and
a painter, too, without a name, is just
worth nothing at all, or, at most, four
shillings."
" Four shillings ?" cried Hester, in
a tone of voice betraying too plainly
the keenness of her disappointment.
" Stop, young woman, not so fast. I
say its present worth is four shillings;
but," exclaimed Mr. Moses, turning up
his little canning eyes, and winking
significantly, "do you think you could
make it into something else-say a
Cayp ?"
"Make it into a Cuyp ? What do
you mean ?"
" Ah !rsee you don't take ; not been
long in London, I suppose. Now, I'll
tell you a secret, for you shall paint for
me, and then it won't be to your inte-
rest to tell tales. My chief business is
to collect Uuyps, Tenierses, Morelands,
and so on. I don't expect to sell them
here; people are to poor in the 'Dials'
for that; but I supply great West-End

dealers with these choice picrs by the
old masters. I employ several painters,
young hands who job cheap; for cheap-
ness, my dear, is everything. Well, I
think you'd suit me ; for this landscape,
with the cows, the fields, and the ragged
boy, might be made into a bootiful
Cuyp, or, at least, into avery respect-
able Moreland."
Hester was still rather perplexed,
though her mind was gradually becomi-
ing enlightened.
"Now," said this collector, or maker
of the old masters, " just take your
landscape home; give it a dingy and a
brown hue all over. I think if you
were to hang it up your- chimley for
about twenty-four hours 'twould be as
well; that is, if the chimley hasn't a
register-stove."
"Hang the picture up the-himney I"
said Hester, astonished; " and why ?"
" To smoke it, of course ; for then
'twill look old. My artists generally
find this the best plan ; and I alwys
recommend the chinley-back, espe-
ciallyn in making the Cuyps and the
Tenierses."
Hester now perfectly understood the
object which the ingenious Mr."Moses
had in view, yet she was unable to re-
gard such a proceeding in any other
light than that of base fraud. Only
surprised was she that any respectable
dealers could patronize such a man, or
wink at practices so thoroughly unprin-
cipled. She marvelled, too, that the
public could be so dupedl; but Mr.
Methusaleh Moses was better acquaint-
ed with the world than Hester Somer-
set, and was profoundly skilled in the
philosophy which teaches the many to
follow the few.
"Then you won't take the drawing
home, and do as I tell you ?" said the
broker, observing that Hester hesitated.
"No, I cannot be guilty of such a
deception."
"Oh I never mind," observed the
Jew, resuming his place on his stool,
and taking his pipe. " Don't put it up
the chimley then ; I never force artists
to make money against their will; if
they refuse to get their fortunes by
doing as I tell them,' 'tis their own
fault. I never push sovereigns into
their hands. Good-day."
"But will you not take the landscape
just as it is?"
"What I all fresh and fair, and done
by somebody living, and, worse than

s
S
S
S
I
r
{
t
y
S
A
a
t
i
4
.


104

HESTER SOMERSET.

all, by  somebody  nobody  knows?
Why, such a picter, I say, is worthless
in the trade ; however,"' added Mr.
Moses, musingly, scratching his ear,
with the tip of his pipe, " as you seem
a good girl, and a young hand, I'll
encourage you, though 'tis like giving
money for nothing ; you shall have
seven shillings for your landscape-
there !"
"Seven shillings ? Night and day,
have I labored at this piece for more
than a week."
" I can't help it if you've worked
more than a yearyoung woman. That's
my price, and I°don't think you'll get'
any broker to give more.".
The head of the Jew, with his fine
Rembrandt-like profile, was again ob-
scured by wreaths of fragrant smoke.
Hester, who thought of the cold treat-
ment she had already experienced at
the hands of other picture-dealers, felt
loath to quit the place.{
"Well, will you take the money, or
are you going?" said Mr. Moses fromi
out of his impenetrable cloud.
Hester drew a few steps nearer, and.
her low sigh might have been heard.
"1The poorest artisan gets double by
his labors.. Even if I were to sweep a
corner of a street-"
" Now, never mind artisans and the
streets ; sell the drawing, or go !"
"Say," exclaimed Hester, with' a
desperate effort, " say nine shillings !"
" Not a farthing more. In selling I
sometimes 'bate, but in buying never'
rise. Here's thecash."   -
The bony hand was thrust forward
beyond the cloud, and seven shillings
lay in the man's palm. Hester, with
a sad and slow motion, .took the few
coins, and then quitted the residence of
Mr, Methusaleh Moses, the celebrated
" maker of the old masters."

CHAPTER XIV.

[R. PIKE AND HIS SOLITARY DINNER.-
'THE FAIR ARTIST'S LAST HOPE.
"WHAT! she'has taken to drawing,
has she'?" said the attorney of St. Mary-
Axe, as he threw himself into a chair
in his kitchen with a black dissatisfied
countenance. The door communicdting
with his office stood ajar, so that he
could espy any client, if such aniindi-

vidual should happen to enter. Mr.
Pike was busily employed in cooking
his dinner, for, though -possessingmany
thousands of pounds, he did not commit'
the extravagant enormity of keeping a
servant.
"Drawing! That's vexatious. Some-
thing may be got by that. The girl-
will make money," pursued the solilo-
quist. "Have we labored, then, for
nothing ?-caused her to be discharged
from Regent-street only to throw her
on another track ? Why, she may even
improve her fortunes. What will Hart-.
ley say to this ?"
Mr. Pike scowled an ominous scowl.
He then rose, and turned his red herring
on the gridiron. This was his dinner;,
for the. fundholder indulged in the
luxury of animal food only once a week.
He couldn't afford it oftener.
"She'll make money. Ah! now I.
think of money, I'll just add that eight
hundred pounds at once to the sum in-
consols, for the stocks are very favorable
for an investment. I'm getting on a
little-getting on. Well, it's- every
man's duty to provide for his old age.
Heaven and reason bid him do it. Yes,
'tis a solemn and religious obligation.
Pooh! the girl need not think of this
yet. She is young, but I am growing
old. Therefore, if I can get anything
by stopping her proceedings, I act but
fairly, and in accordance with the
dictates of justice ands reason. Yes,
yes, I am all right;.and my conscience,
I rejoice to think, is perfectly clear."
Then the worthy gentleman, be-
coming more composed and happy,
spread his cloth, and placed his dinner
on the table. A frugal meal, in truth,
it might be, a herring and potato ;
but so many sweet and pleasurable
visions of saving and amassing hovered
above the scanty board, that we doubt
much whether an epicure ever expe-
rienced more satisfaction over his
venison and - champagne than that
miser derived from his solitary rand
miserable repast.
"We must stop her," murmured Mr.
Pike, at every interval which occurred
in his eating. " We will stop her,"
he still said, as he placed down the
glass, having drained the cold water it
contained. " Ay, we will stop her."
Putting away his dinner things, and
raking out his Aire to save the expense
of coals, Mr. Pike stepped into his
office. There he remained alone, lean.

HESTER SOMERSET,

ing back in his chair. Yet it was not
to enjoy an afternoon siesta. No; the
mind was too active to suffer the body
to indulge in sleep, so long as the sun
continued above the horizon. He was
wrapped in meditation. First his law
business claimed his thoughts-; then
his connection with Hartley, -and the
best method of frustrating the designs
of Hester, put his mind on the stretch.
But these themes for reflection ultimate-
ly gave place to the cherished subject
of his heart. le mused on his increas-
ing hoard ; guinea added to guinea,
thousand to thousand. Oh, the dear,
delicious, soul-absorbing dream! Say
:nt themiser, while he starves his body,
and drops by inches, through emacia-
tion and feebleness, into the grave-say
not he has no reward on earth. Shut
out from his brain the imageofthe
tomb, and it is the wild, sweet intoxica-
:tion of the opium-eater that he feels.
.Eis very frenzyis an excess of rapture;
and helaughs at the astronomer- and
his glittering stars when he surveys his
heaps; more bright and precious;in his
eyes than the golden orbs of heaven..
And did Hester, after the little en-
couragement she received, relinquish
her. efforts with the pencil and brush?
Notyet. -She resolvedon concentrating
.her powers, and bestowing a greater
length of time on one piece.' The sub-
ject of the intended paintingwas Brook-
land Hall and the surrounding scenery.
Each spotwhereier infancy was passed
had so inpressed.itself on her mind,'
that she experienced no dif iculty in
drawing entirely-from memory. The
painting, when completed,wasintended:
to be hung for sale in -one of the ba-
saars. Week after week passed, and
still Hester toiled at her easel. Mean
tinie she lived on the little which she'
had previously contrived to save. It
was or a great stake 'that ;he thea;
success would be triumph4  .utshuld
the. performance prove a"lure, the
defeat to her would be ca  ous=in-
deed.
Mr. Somersetwas aware of his daugh-
ter'spursuit, and the subject on-whieh'
her ;pencil was employed.   Hester
assured him that her labor would-be
certain this tinie of gaining a handsome'
recompense, and the ol-l gentleman
hoped andf prayed such  ight beathe
case. Brookland Hall-how   dear it'
was to-thememory of the ruinedaand
captive man! how lovely the house and
8

105

domain of his ancestors;still shone on
the mirror of his fancy! Such a pic.-
ture, he thought, even - if indifferently
executed, must needs be beautiful.
And Hester completed her task. As
as work of art, independently of its
associations, the picture was good. -In
truth, the 'indefatigable young artist
had surpassed herself. And now, at
his urgent request, she was to take it
to her father in the prison; for Mr.
Somerset would delighthis eyes with
it, and congratulate his child previously
to its being exposed for sale. With
feelings of pride and happiness, Hester
consented to his wish. As, however, the
painting was - of rather large diinen-
sions, she could not herself very well
transport it to the Fleet- Prison ; but
she hired a boy, *rho, for a small sum,
would ,carry it on his shoulder. One
thought gave her great satisfaction:
Mr. Hartley's solicitor, Pike, could not
persecute her now, for what shouldlhe
know of her present movements ? Even
if he discovered, her  ainting in the
bazaar, it was not likelyshe'thoughi,
he would remain there all day depreP
ciating its merits, so as toprevent
people 'from. purchasing it  No, she
was secure from his miachinations now.
Crafty, subtle, sneaking little'Pike I
peering into corners with untiring in-
dustry, and gaining intelligence we
scarcely know -how, 'thy secret' agency,
we grieve to say, was not so easily elud-
ed.
" Take great care," said Hester to the
boy, as he carried the painting before
her down Fleet-lane in'the direction
of the prison. "When we reach the
door I will knock, and you have only
to walk straight through the passage
into the further yard. Oh ! stop one
instant; I have left something at my
lodgings, and which my father must
I have."
She had indeed forgotten her purse .
the last shilling in which was to be
given to her "father that morning.
Lightly Hester'tripped back, while the
boy remained stanZig  on the pave-
npent, the picture on his shoulder, le
was an honest youth, and Hester knew
him well.
".My goad lad," said a ,man who,
wrapped in agreat coat,:walkedupto
him immediately that ,ester had.van-
ished .into the house, "can you tell me
where Hollybush-alley is ?"

A''

i               y             T'
K  r..               r

4


16

HESTER S OMERS-E=T.

The boy looked puzzled, for he did
- not know of such a place.
"Holybush-alley, sir? Take care,
sir; this is a painting I've got here';
don't knock against it, please."
"I won't hurt it, my dear youth.
Here's twopence for you, if you'll just
tell me where Hollybush-alley is."
One hand of the boy, as he took the
money, was    necessarily withdrawn'
from  the picture-frame ; and a very
slight knock which the man gave, as if
by accident in turning around, caused
the painting. to "fall, from the lad's
shoulder upon the pavement.
" Oh! whatwill the lady say ?" cried
the boy, in great consternation.
"I'm very sorry, but it is not injur-
ed," sa : the man; "the wrapper has
saved.it; the picture is not even soiled.
Now let me place it on your shoulder."
"Quick, then: .for miss will be here
in a minute," exclaimed the trembling
youth.
* As the stranger lifted the picture,
and .the boy :turned from  him, the
former.might have been observed to
draw hastily fromhis large side-pocket
a. common painter's brush, smeared
with black paint.. What his object
might be himself only knew : and why
he lifted the cloth covering, thrusting
his arm beneath.it at the very moment
he was settling the -picture in the de-
sired position, was equally a mystery.
"It is all right," said the man. "I
won't trouble you any more about 1ol7
lybush-alley, for I think I know it now.
There, you may keep the twopence ;"
and the speaker, who in truth had not
expected this golden opportunity of ac-
complishing so easily what he meditat-
ed, vanished around the'corner, just as
Bester came, up, out of breath with
climbing and descending the countless
stairs of the high lodging-houses. The
'boy'did not mention the incident-which
had occurred, since no damage seemed'
to have been done. They reached -the'
prison:;°and the picture having been
carried to the room of Mr..Somerset,
the lad went away.
The "father and the daughter stood.
before the painting, as it leant, conceal-
edby its -overagainst the wall.  .
Somerset was, anxious to- see it;but
Histe- repressed his ardor, and would
2not,' for  a.few minutes, perrnit lim to
'raise the Canvas.
M4[Now, you expect too much," she
said. "KBrookland Ball and the coun-

try around, we know, are very beauti-
ful"--the old gentleman sighed-" but
I have not done justice to the subject,
although this piece has occupied me
exactly six weeks."
" Six weeks, my poor child, laboring
for me I" eaid Mr. Somerset.
"But for myself, too, father," ob-
served Hester, smiling.
"Well, I trust you will receive a
due reward for your toil. Perseverance
is a noble virtue. It will sell-it mut
sell-yet I shall grieve to lose it.- Now,
Hester, gratify me."
The girl playfully put back the in-
truding hand.
" One instant stop, dear father. Let
me open the door, that more light may
fall upon it. Much 'of the effect of a
picture, you know, depends upon the
light in which it is placed."-
Hester moved 'back the door, and
drew aside the little curtain which
hung over the single ,window., Then,
with a girlish pleasure and an artist's
pride, she stooped to raise thecanvas
which covered the fair representation
of Brookland Hall. Already,in fancy,
the late .-proprietor- saw his beloved
Elizabethan mansion, the smooth velvet
park, the fresh green trees, the deer, the
running brook, the hills,-and the dis-
tant sea. He half-shaded his eyes with
his. hands, until 'e t delightful.vision
should be realized to his senses. But
his daughter, suddenly started'back,
and a shriek sprang -to.her lips. She
tottered towards him, unable-to:articu-
late words ; but her hand was pointed
in the.direction of the uncovered paint-
ing
Oh, that piteous, agonizing look! It
sent a thrill to the father's heart. And
there was the performance-not a beau-
tiful landscape now ; but on the fairy-
like colors stood large daubs of black
paint.  The blue, delicate sky, the
greendfelds, the ancient mansion, were
crossed and-recrossed by-broad belts
and smears" of;thea'same obliterating
paint. The ruin had been done quick'.
ly, but done eompl4tely.
The pale fae of=Hester layon her
father's shoulder; and tears, relieving
the first shock and the .agonyt "were
flowingnow."M. Somerset saw all,
and understgod at brce lher feelings.
None bat anemy cold'r have perspe-
trated the infamrous act ; and who that
enemy was he had little diffienltyiin
divining.  One hand supposed his

H ESTER 1OMERSET.

drooping 'child, whosehopes wer
crushed; and whose labors were all i
vain; the 'other was oclenched in rage
- and his eyes were full-of the fire of in
dignation.-Another injury was heape
on his head; another stabihad been in
stigated by the cruel 'brother ! , Wil
the law give him no . redress? Wil
justice award to the evil no punish
nent? He was in a prison, without
resources, without 'a single pound
Who would engage attorneys ? ---wh
fee counsel for him? ie must bear it
patience-his destiny was tosuffer.
The injured man turned slowly, fo:
he heard a step approach the door. -.A
figure now darkened the entrance, thi
figure of a person-well known. Th
intruder stood still, with his arms
'quietly folded. This was not the first
time he had made his appearance in'a
-similar manner. Roland-Hartley came
to indulge in the luxury of certain
feelings, and tb behold the humiliation
-of hisenemy. The lids were half raised
from his; glowing eyes, and the pupils
dilated with singular expression-of
malicious enjoyment.
-The two brothers gazed on each other,
.:strange to say, -without uttering a
single word. Their 'looks seemed to
lascinate each other by some deadly
influence, and theyedid not advance a
step or move a limb.;- Hester 'only
cowered away, sinking gradually from
her father's embrace, until-her fair form
half lay upon the floor, one hand-being
tremulously extended towards him who
stood at the entrance, as if she would
entreat his forbearance and-mercy.

CHAPTER XV.

THE TWO.ENEMIES.--THE I'AGISTRATE.
S INDIGNATION' at his unparalleled 'in-
-juries bore down at length all. those
feelings-of sa mild forgiving' nature
which hitlrerto had rendered Mr.. So-
merset a patient endurer.losing com-
rmand of himself,inow-syrang towards
Hartley, and seized himby the collar.
Miserable man! 'areyou not content
,with perpetratinig7our infamous deeds,
-but you m0strcoieto a4dinsult to? our
wrongs,'an'dmock our miseries ?',
Hartley,perfectly3calm, made :no
'effort to disengagehimself..-
"Hugb,"hesaid;gin a low,measured

107'

e voicee"you einjoyed'your good things
n for many years-the time has 'one
, when you must receive your-evil.
- This'is the natural course 'of earthly
d events-this is the doom of man!"
-   "Your philosophy is the philosophy
l of a demon, hypocrite, and liar IIf I
1 ha e sinned, Heaven hathnot appointed
thee tobe an avenger."
t   "Perhaps it- has," said Hartley,
. with a sneer.
o   " No, Heavento execute its purposes,
n will not have recourse to meanness and
malice. You 'are instigated only by
r the Evil One beneath. You seek to
drive the iron into my soul deeper and
e deeper by afflicting this poor child;by
e blasting her hopes and frustrating her
s designs.  Look-yonder !"--Somerset
t pointed at the ruined picture-" Did
you not do that?"
Hartley at first was surprised, but
presently, comprehending the truth,
laughed, if that hideous writhing of the
I hard features might be called laughter.
" I am not guilty,, Hugh. I did not
f besmear that fair picture. I faith!
those black-lines: and daubs do not
much improve the piece."
- "-You- employed, then, some villain
to do this base act."
" If so, brother, mind:it is your place
to discover- the instrument, and then
prove me to be the employer. The law
does not call on me to assist you in the
matter."
I need no assistance. Your tool,
the.diabolical Pike, is the man."
"Very well;.proceed against us; we
are ready to :appear. In the Temple,
and at St. Mary-Axe, you will 'always
find your obedient servants. Good-
morning." Hartley glanced around
him, and added, " Snug quarters-
wholesome stone floor,and clean stone
walls--cool, pleasant in the summer,
exceedingly so; but--winter is coming
-good-day !'
Hartley turned on, his heel, and
crossed the prison-yard. He placed
five shillings in the debtors' boxand
feed:the turnkeys;for by tesesaeans,
often practised before-means peculiar-
ly eficacious in' the Fleet-he-had
ingratiated: himself 'with-the officialss
and, inmates, so that'-his visits were
hailedwwith? pleasure, and .marked
attention was always shown him.
Hester forthwith-questioned:the lad
who had carried.thee-painting, and-the,
incident of the man inquiring for

4

11

i

t+nrao seu

3

i
s
i
1
}


'a.

&amp;f

108

HESTER SOMERSET-.

t
d
_
a
}
Ia
f
i C
l
f
f
QI

t
3
Z
4
4
P
8
,
7
9
Y
F
t
¢
7
Y
1

HESTER SOMERSET.

Hollybush-alley, now first told to her,
sufliciently explained the truth,; the
description, too, given by the boy of
the stranger's appearance---though his
face had been muffled up in an old great
coat-convinced her that the person
was Pike. Urged by her father, she
consulted a magistrate, who, consider-
ing the case, requested Mr. Pike's
presence at the office. So plausible,
however, were that gentleman's state-
ments, so mild his manner, and sound
his arguments, that the.magistrate soon
became convinced Mr. Pike could not
have been the ,man who accosted the
lad and destroyed the painting.
"Alas 1" said the worthy attorney,
" we gentlemen of the law, your wor-
ship, are frequently placed in a very
unenviable position,. being -considered
enemies when, in reality, we are friends.
This young woman's father has the
misfortune to be in prison, having run
through all his property by means of
unsuccessful:speculations. I was em-
ployed on behalf of one of the creditors,
and was compelled,/in carrying out the
law,. to be , the reluctant instrument
of causing his 'present -confinement.
Hence it is that the good, innocent,
and affectionate daughter, mourning
her father's condition, regards me as a
bitter enemy. Everything that goes
amiss she ascribes to me. All the ills
she endures are traced to my agency,
as'if I could have any motive or pleasure
inpersenuting a poor.defenceless girl.
Alas t I wish.I could convince her that
I pity both herself and her father, and
would assist them to the utmost of my
ability."
Mr. Pike smoothed down the tufts of
his red hair, drooped his little watery
eyes. and looked the picture of candor
and benevolence.
"Wretched, hypocritical man!" cried
flester, her cheek-flushing with honest
anger; "you well know that all you
now assert is a tissue of falsehoods.
our malignant, your fiendish nature
"{hush, girl, if ou please.t" said the
. magistrate, frowning ;." these  hard
words must notbe used, in my presence,
against a respectable attorney. I make
very; allowance for the -state of your'
feelings, and can well imagine why
you consider Mr. Pike an enemy, when,
,as he :justly observes, he .is no such
thing. le is an attorney, miss, and
austat in conformity with the law,

109

and consult the will of his clients. - The
lad is unable to swear that the man in
the great coat, who encountered him in
Fleet-lane, is this gentleman ; no proof,
therefore, exists of the identity of the
two individuals. The case, consequent-
ly, must be, dismissed. Mr. Pike," I
have no further question to ask; you
may leave. Now, hush, young lady;
don't utter another word.; the question
is decided. What! you will speak !-
you ,brave my authority, do you?
Fang," said the worthy magistrate,
turning to, one -of the functionaries,
"you had better lead her out of the
court."
CHAPTER XVI.
HESTER ENTERS A NEW FIELD OF EMPLOY-
MENT.-THE AVOWAL OF LOVE.
HESTER was alone in her room, pon-
dering on past events.  During the
time she had been painting, nearly all
the money previously saved by her had
been expended. Illsuccess as an artist,
and her late terrible misfortune, caused
herinexpressible grief, and for the time
crushed her spirit. Moreover, she be-
gan .to doubt her ability to produce,
pictures sufficiently meritorious to com-
mand a sale, so as. to be a source of
remuneration. Fame she did not covet;
the possession of the sum  of money
necessary to effect the liberation of-her
father being all her heart desired. Her
brushes and her palette, then, were
thrown aside; she would paint no more.
In a word, Hester abandoned the idea'
of prosecuting an art which, circum-
stanced as she was, held out no hope.
A tap at her door disturbed the train
of her thoughts, and the blind woman,
Mrs. Flemming, crept into the room.
"I have heard of the great' wicked-.
ness of some persons unknown," she
began, "who have destroyed your paint-
ing ; ;but I am not come to -speak of
=that ; I bring.a message from my son."
"From Mr. Flemming?"said Hester,
in a tone of surprise.
"If you. would let -him have the
honor of stepping ug for five minutes,
he-thinks &amp;could inform you of some-
thing, or advise  something, which
:might be to your advantage.",
"Certainly he may come,.Mrs. Flem-
ming. You will accompany him."

d
f
Y
}a
t

4

-When- the hunchback entered the
room, with his slender spindle legs,
long arms, and stooping head, the,
hunch being seen like a small hill be-
hind;it, the object he presented might
be-pitiable; yet, unlike some misshapen
uulfortunates or monsters, his appear-
ance, did not excite disgust or fear.
Gazing only at his countenance, you
were interested by -its highly intellec-
tual expression, while the quiet melan-
choly which softened every feature
touched the heart. His thin face now
glowed, and his eyes were lit up, but
his limbs trembled ; and, as he looked at
Hester, the agitation he betrayed every
moment increased.
The blind woman stood by the side
of her son, proud of her ofspring-the
child of deformitybutof genius. Hester
had only one chair; she drew it to Mrs.
Flemming, and the latter seated herself.
""Now, Mark, tell'the lady what you
think about the music."
The hunchback, being thus brought
face to face with her he secretly adored,
suffered some moments to elapse before
he- could summon courage to address
her."' At length he spoke:-,
"I am not ignorant, Miss Somerset,
of the great design you cherish with-
respect to your father.  Would we
were able to assist you; but I can only
offer my poor advice. I am told you,
play the -piano, and that you under-
stand music well. Why, then, devote
your time to the thankless unprofitable
employment of drawing?-an employ-
muent by which one 'gains a living and
twenty starve."
"But I have no piano -now; mine
was sold with my father's furniture,
and I have not sufficient money to buy
another." .
- "No matter ; obtain the few neces-
sary music-books, and you can give
lessons to 'young ladies in families.
supplied with instruments."
'Yes,". said the blind- woman ;
"thergis nothing easier or more com-
mon than, for teachers to attend at the
parents' houses. -Much money may be
made thatsway, depend on it."'
Hester was. thoughtful, but; she did
not long hesitate in expressing her
opinion; Gifted with 'an ardent and
hopeful spirit, she, was one easily to be
illed&amp; with bright dreams." In truth,
Flemming's-scheme 'seemed -to her -a.
very happy one, and she thanked  him
for his- suggestions,-and would imme-

diately use he best endeavors to profit
by his advice.
The next, day an advertisement
appeared in one of the morning papers,
setting forth Hester's intention ofteach-
ing the rudiments of music in private
families, her terns being unusually
moderate. This appeal was not 'attend-
ed- with much success. Two'.pupils,
however, were gained; and the beauty
of Hester, her-gentle manners, and her
fine natural talents, were soon appreci-
ated. The parents of the two children
she taught recommended her to others,
and thus she progressed, the circle of
her labors gradually enlarging, and her
gains consequently increasing..
We see her, then, after her usual call
at the Fleet Prison-for never yet had
she passed one day without visiting her
father-hurrying forth to the different
houses where she gave music lessons,
Her step was light, and her heart was
happy. She pleased, for with her the
art of pleasing was a natural, and not
an acquired talent. Her pupils might
be dull, but her patience triumphed
over their stolidity ; some of the mo-
thers might be coarse and overbearing,
but Hester's humility and unvarying
good-humor disarmed and"conciliated
even them.
Three months from-the commencement
of this career, Hester, for the first time,
proceeded to a certain old and sub-
stantial-looking house in the Strand-
it was a savings' bank. The indefati-
gable daughter of'the imprisoned ian
deposited there, towards her great de-
sign, the sum of thirty pounds!
But we must now relate an inci-
dent which much affected her peace of
mind, and' subsequently led to a scene
that well, might terrify a young gi'ri,
alone and unprotected 'in the great
world of -London. -Mark Flemming,
the hunchback, heard of Hester's suc-
cess, and rejoiced at it. The unfortu-
nate and apparently hopeless ,passion
which he had conceived for her had by
no means lessened in its intensity.
Still his love was of the most" timid
and reserved description. His-actions
might have betrayed:his secret, buthie
lips were mute. The hour, however,
was coming which must decide his fate,
for' he felt ,it impossible to maintain
silence much longer. He struggled day
after day to imprison the whirlwind in
his heart until that heart was bursting.
Nature! with all thy running skill,

':


110,

HES'TER SOMERS ET.

and harmonious adaptation of part to.
part through creation's, range, dost
thou not sometimes commit melancholy
errors ? How else should we find a
spirit like Flemming's imprisoned in
such a body? His deformity was not
the result of an accident, for so he had
come into the world.  Listless had
Flernmming grown in prosecuting his
musical studies ; :his violin, once so
worshipped,,his second self, was cast
aside, or only played on when necessity
compelled; his new passion usurped
the place of all other affections of the
mind and heart.
The hunchback was standing in his
room, being too restless. and feverish
to-sit; for he had come to a resolution
that dayof1dressing  Hester. She
was - alen , giving one of her music
lessons, but he expected her every min-
ute. His motherwas asleep in her ac-
customed corner, a circumstance which
favored his design. -Flemming, anxious
not to disturb her, crept to and fro on
tiptoe. The poor young    man had
dressed himself for the occasion with
great attention and care; his long locks
had been ,combed, his linen changed,
and his threadbare coat scrupulously
brushed. _ What mnad fancy entered his
soul? What mocking demon whispered
in his ear, that woman could love, could
accept a being like him ?
Flemming gazed from   his window
into the squalid street, but Hester was
not to be seen. Oh ! that, she would,
hasten and relieve his suspense ! for,
having now formed his resolve, the tor-
ture of'that uncertainty was terrible to
endure. A quarter of an hour passed
-a .few minutes more--still his eyes
were- riveted on the pavement below.
9isrestlessness andagitation increased.
Suddenly he stepped back from   the
window; he perceived her at last.
Hester was come.
'She was sitting in her chair; her hat
lay on the floor, and her shawl had fall.
enbehind her; except this, her dress
'Was notdisarranged; but her hair, hav-
ing: escaped fom its comb ,fell in wave-
like and glittering'-masses; rather than
ringlets, down her shoulders.'She
looked inexpressibly 'heatiful,:yet nei-
ther ,blushing. timidity nor anger was
apparent in _her face;:pit bore.only' the
stamp of sorrow. Her cheek was pale,
and the long fringe of the lids, as-her,
eyes were cast on the floor, sustained

tears, which, one by one, fell into .her
lap. She- did not move or speak, for'
the thoughts which oppressed her heart
admitted not of utterance.
Fleminingremained at a short dis-
tance : his attitude half stdoping, half
kneeling, betokened supplication.- His
thin hands were clasped before him;'
the colow on his usually ashy cheek-
fluctuated every moment ; and his
breathing was hard and hurried. His
secret, then, had -been revealed ; he
had declared his love for Hester-the
passion which half paralyzed his facul-
ties,- and -daily and hourly consumed
him. He felt by ono means confident of
success, yet, in spite of all he knew, in
spite of the consciousness of the blight
and curse fallen on his miserable body,
the poor hunchback was not entirely
without hope.-
"You are alarmed-you shrink from
me," said Flemming,'stealing an ardent
glance at Hester. " I am award that
to an ordinary woman I must be an
objectof contempt; perhaps of loathing;
but the belief that you possess a high
soul, endowed' with genius, has -em-
boldened me to address you. Oh! re-
gard me not as I appear ! Let our love
be of the immortal spirit! letour union
be a union of souls!".
Alas ! Hester was still flesh and blood,
and had not conquered the instincts of
humanity. She had not become an
idealist, capable of living out of matter,
or soaring above it. Her hopes, her.
fears, her joys, were still associated
with things of earth, and her whole
nature was tremblingly alive to the
beautiful.
" You do not speak !" pursued Flem-
ming. " Perhaps you condder my
station in life below your own; and it
is, I am conscious, of it, notwithstand-
ing all the circumstances of distress
which now surround you."
" No,"  answered  Hester, softly,
"'What have I to do with pride? 'iny
father and myself cannot be reduced
more low."     a
Flemming's eyes brightened, forehe
felt encouraged, anddrawing a step
nearer, he spoke Tapidly and 'with vehe-
mence:-
"If to watch around you, to obey
your slightest command, to love you
respectfully but ardently,-to-be a pro-
tector while' asubmissive-slave, to join.
my: efforts with your own in- raising
that money which shall setgdur father

H:E S T-ER, SOMERSET.,

at liberty; to appreciate your high men-
tal gifts as well as your beauty, to cen-
tre all my hopes, mayjoys,- my-life, in
your own welfare and happiness, and
to consider even fame and the 'world's
applause second to your love--if all
this may-entitle me to your attention,,
your regard, hear me ! I beseech you,
hear me 1"
The arms of Flemming were raised
imploringly, and, as he knelt on the!
-floor, his head was thrown backward :
his features at the moment looked
strikingly fine, but behind was the
disfiguring hump on the_- summit of
his crooked back. Could the young
fair flower; ;the bright-eyed Peri, the
Psyche without her butterfly wings, be
linked to aa, being like this? Our
human feelings recoil at such a union..
We overlook the- soul which animates
the formless clod. We cannot help our
sensations: we obey but the laws of
our nature.
Rester, who had long struggled to
repress what she felt, spoke at length,
but with mildness,'carefully abstaining
from=,very allusion that might pain the
unfortunate man.
"I am very young, Mr. Flemming,
very unprotected, and possess little ex-
perience of the world. Situated as I
am,:and laboring for my father, I can-
-not accept-it is utterly impossible for
me to accept--that is, I mean I cannot
listen to your proposals."
"Well, I may hope-some future
time-     You do not decidedly reject
me."
"It would be wrong in me, to lead
you astray. I feel it my duty to speak
plainly. I admire your genius, your
noble mind, and your filial affection in
supporting  your blind  mother.  I
will esteem you as a friend-as a bro-
ther-"
While she spoke these words, Flem-
muing's agitation was pitiable to wit-
uess: his projecting breast heaved
-with rapid :convulsions, his muscles
worked, and over the swollen veins of
his, forehead spread a moisture-which-
gradually gathered into beads.-
"A friend-a brother !" he gasped.
"Go on!"
But never can I regard you in any
other-light.*'
".Then I hear myfate-! Heaven sup-
port me Lthe dream is.over 1"_
'He moved back, a few -steps, and
leanedonthetable..As hestooped his

111

head on his long a'mshis face was uhh-
seen. That attitude, although it gave
more grotesqueneseto his misshapen
frame, indicated the last degree-of suf-
fering and prostration ofsoul.
Hester could not see him thus mise-
rable and broken down without being
sensibly affected. Her young heart
bled,-and the very fact of his hideous
deformity operated as an appeal to her
commiseration.  Drawing her chair
towards him, she placed him gently
into it, for he yielded passively to her
guidance.
"Mr. Flemming," said Hester, in
her low, silvery accents, "be calmn. I
am utterly unworthy of this regard-
this grief. -You must not be angry
with me : I have said only what duty
compels, and the respect I have for you
renders necessary."
"Duty, respect !" said Flemming,
bitterly ; "-these are words I would
-not have you utter ; yet why should I
find fault with them? Love, hopeless
or happy, you have never known, and
if it must bring torture like mine, may
you ever be a stranger to it1"
Heater was silently meditating. Her
absent manner betokened that her
thoughts wandered away from the un-
happy man before her, and the room
in which she stood. . Flemming ob-
served her averted countenance and
her thoughtfully-fixed eyes.  He ad-
dressed her by her name, and she
turned abruptly.
"You said I had never.loved,"whis-
pered Hester, her voice quivering with
emotion.
"Because one so young as you, so
beautiful and pure as you, would never
have met with a fitting object."  The
hunchback suddenly raised hie hands:
"Dotard ! presumptuous wretch that
I am! and did I, in my madness,
dream that I was a 'fitting' object?
I, on whom rest the curse of nature
and the ban of God.. Could a-seraph of
light like thee love a demon?2 a foul
hideous thing whom   a veil, should
enwrap, whom the earth should co-
ver ?"
A peal of laughter, the spirit's bitter
mockery, rang through the room. Hes-
ter shuddered:
"But. I will be calm, dear Miss
,Somerset ; I will not distress you. I
will bow to my destiny. I will endure
my lot.. But tell me,have you indeed
met -with one whrom you can regard

: ,
r .                                                                                   . _ ,                  ..,                          .

. -   -
_                                           ,.     _ _ .


112

H E S T ER SOMERSET.

with-those feelings you can never en-
tertain for me:?"
"Yes," said Hester, frankly ; "and
this, beyond any other circumstance,-
shouldexplain why Icannot listen ,to
the addresses of another; your up-
right mind must allow that falsehood,
is a black crime."
" It is," observed Flemming, mourn-
fully.  -
"From - childhood I have been,
pledged to one who is now---"
"Do not hesitate. Think not in my
misery I shall utter maledictions. My
prayer :will be, 'Heaven bless you, and
bless him1'
"One who is now in a distant- coun-
try-the East Indies."x
" A great officer,, perhaps ?"
" No ; he is a poor lad, a peasant's
son, self-taught-without money and
without friends."
Flemming was eagerly attentive, but
evidently surprised.
"As you cherish an intense love for
music, so did he conceive a passion for,
military life." -
"You hear from him frequently?"
"No; he is ignorant of the calamity
that has befallen my father, and if he,
writes, his letters do not reach us
now."
" Then he may have died of one of the
diseases of the climate-he may havel
been killed in battle."
"God grant otherwise !" exclaimed
Hester, her quiet, sorrowful face grow-
ing-more pale.
" Or," suggested Flemming, " he -
may have altogether forsaken you."
"That is: probable, very probable,"
answered Hester, her eyes filling with
tears.
"Should this be true, can you not,
in turn, renounce him ?"
The girl's features became animated,
her hands were clasped, and her eyes
raised.
" Renounce him,!- woman's heart
does not so soon forget; we cannot soi
readily-obliterate impressions of early
years.F Never, even- though he desert
me, can I be false to him-never can l
I cease to cherish hismemory."
The ardor evinced byHester carried
a conviction to the heart of Flem--
ming that she spoke the-truth. The o
knowledge that her affections were'
placed .on another did not .cool his
own passion, butAit gaveS this feel-a
ixgs a harshness and a bitterness they

did not before possess:; he was neither,
tranquillized nor satisfied, but in. his,
bosom the evil- principle began to war
with. the ;good; and-this struggle was
doomed thenceforth to divide his being,,
now prompting him to acts of gene-
rosity, -and now leading him to crime.
Flemming did. not take a formal
leave of Hester, or endeavor to excite
her sympathy by dwelling on his own
hopelessness and suffering. Pride as-
sisted him now in smothering all that
burned within, and he quitted her
presence, apparently resigned to inevi-
table circumstances, and the defeat of
his pretensions.
The heart.of Hester rejoiced at the
mastery which Flemming seemed -to
have gained over himself.. She beheld,,
the sunlight restored to the surface- of
the smooth stream, yet her eye could
not penetrate into the dark and trou-
bled waters beneath.
CHAPTER XVII.        Y
THE VISITING MEMBER Or THE "RAUD-
PREVENTING SOcIETY."
HESTER's success, as a teacher of
music, exceeded her expectations and-
her prospects daily grew more bright.
The monotony of Mr. Somerset's. ex-
istence was relieved and cheered by the
assurance of his child's=welfare. That
she would ever,-by any exertions, al-
though extending through a series of
years, savesufficient to procure his re-
lease, he held to be a chimera and a
dream; yet he did not discourage her;
in the prosecution of her design,-for
whatever money-might be accumulated
would be her own, when death should-
put an end to his trials, and hischild,
be thrown without a protector on the
world. Nevertheless, he was surprised
when Hester informed him how much,,
in so short a period, she hadlaid by.-
Her progress, too, was- a sufficient
prdi6f how: greatly she was esteemed
by the families into which she-had the.
good fortune to=obtain an introduction.
Meantime, we must not imagine the-
venom of Hartley's hatred was staydd,-
or that' Mr. Pike had fallenasleep;=
The, latter. had  made-limselfac-
quainted with the fact that- Hester-
had; deposited a sum of anoneyina
avings:' bank. -Thei information was

HES-TER S O MERSTE.

duly communicated- to the revengeful
Hartley, and .caused him great irrita-
tion and rage. The: two consulted to-
gether, and the happy scheme which
they concocted for.defeating their puny'
enemy will presently appear.
Day after day,.the indefatigable at-
torney dogged at a distance the steps
of Hester; when he saw her enter a
house, he would with his pencil quietly-
mark down the address. This course
was persevered in for a week, until the
respective places at which Hester called
amounted to twenty-a number, he had
reason to believe, including the entire
round of her musical engagements.
It was about five o'clock, just after
the family; dinner, that a gentleman
knocked at the door of a house in the
neighborhood of Bedford-row. His ap-
pearance was that of a clergyman, for
he was dressed. in black, with a stiff
white neckerchief,. shovel hat, and
black silk stockings. His look was
very respectable and very sedate, al-
though he might not have been called
a personable man, so broad was his thin-
liplessamouth, so small and round were
his twinkling eyes, and so fiat in the
front his receding skull.
"is the lady of the house at home?"
asked the stranger.
The servant girl said that she was,
and inquired the gentleman's name.,
"'The Reverend Mr..Smith. I have-
business, my girl, which interests your
mistress"
The-reverend gentleman was accord-
 ingly introduced into the little parlor,
for the owner of the house was not a
wealthy, though a respectable trades-
man. Mrs. Greatheart (such was the
female's name) presently- appeared,
and courtesied to the visitor with that
respect: in her manner which his walk
inSlife seemed to demand,
"Madam," began the, Reverend Mr.
Smith, "my visit is one of philanthropy
-no, no," he quickly added, perceiving
'the lady look grave, and press her hands,
to her sides, as if forming a strong de-
termination not: to introducethem-into.
her pockets-"I4do not call to beg for,
any charity-I do not go about:collect
ing money for the building of churches
-oh, no-; my object is to do you,
madam,. a personal service."
Mrs. Greatheart, at this assurance,
was immediately all smiles,; and seated
herself opposite to Mr..Smith:.Alasli
for human nature  so widely different,

11$

are the sentiments we experience,- wben
our own individual intests°are eon}
cerned, and those of-the' great family
of mankind!is  
" I amn a.member, madam,;of a'iso
ciety whose object is to prevent fraud
being practised on innocent and unsus-
pecting families. We, the members
take it in turn to visit allhouses where
we suspect or fear evil designs are
meditated."
" An excellent society, truly; but,;
bless me ! I hope no wicked persons
are plotting evil against us."
The. gentleman in black shookhis
head, which shake seemed to intimate
a great deal, and, more thapi words
perhaps would have done, excited Mrs.
Greatheart's curiosity and alarm.
" I trust you will not suffer any ina
jury, madam;: however, information
has been ,given   at the 'Society's
Rooms'".-for we employ many officer
in this good work-that certain- evil-'
disposed parties have gained:occasional
access to your house."
"I am   astonished, sir, and: yet I
thank  you for this - timely notice.
Where, pray, "may your 'Society's
Rooms' be, that I may communicate
if necessary, with you ?"
"Excuse me, madam, answering
that question; we-we," added the
reverend  gentleman, with a short
cough-" we are compelled to-be very
secret in our laudable exertions; ,if our
rooms-in fact, if-the ' Fraud-Prevent-
ing Society'-were once generally known
to exist, we should soonibe crushed by
a coalition of the wicked, and the- ends
of justice and' virtue would thus be
defeated."
"Very well-I understand -your
reasons are quite satisfactory. But
pray, tell me, sir,: what suspicious
characters visit our-house ?"
" Fraudulent ;persons, madatm --
thieves, madam. Our great aim isto
save  private families from   being
robbed.'
"Ah! perhaps the servant-"
" No, our officers have learnt thatshe
is an. honest creature; but they have
seen entering your door occasionally a
young female, who assumes.the guise of
a lady'"
Mrs. Greatheart started, uttering a
slight exclamation.
" Thereis a gang of thieves, madam,
just now employing young girls, edu-,
cated for:the :purpose, to teach music

i
d                                        .k  ,'lC' 4

r


114                 HESYTE R      S
and the languages. These girlspbeing
once installed in houses, take all they
carl in the shape i of plate, coin, and
watches, The scheme, hitherto, we
learn, has been remarkably successful,
and much booty has accrued to the
gang.  Oh-!-. London, madam, is a
dreadful place-knavery here is- car-
ried on in so refined and clever a man-
ner-yes, it requires all the exertions
of such societies as ours to combat
with, and put down, the iniquity of
the times P"
The Reverend Mr. Smith's eyes were
raised to the ceiling, and she sighed
from the bottom of his philanthropic
breast. ,
" Sir," said Mrs. Greatheart, much
moved, "this is, indeed, terrible, and
yet to us housekeepers, most useful
information. But I don't think," con-
tinued the lady, visions of brooches
and silver spoons flitting through her
'brain-" I am  not quite certain we
have lost anything yet."-
"Very probably -not, ma'am; the
opportunity hasn't come."
" Of course, reverend sir, you allude
to the young lady who teaches my
children music ?"
"Yes; by what 'name do you call
her ?"
"Miss Somerset."
"Oh-ah !" said the wily gentleman,
careful not to commit himself too far--
" I don't know thatname-Miss Somer-
set ! 'tis a pretty and an'innocent kind
of name. The officer who traced the
young woman here told me she is
called Mary Sparks--the youngest lass
employed by the gang."-
That is strange," observed Mrs.
Greatheart.
" Not at all strange, madam. 'I dare
say the unhappy female goes by a dif-
ferent -name at every place where she
teaches music. , Bless you I London
thieves are the most adroit set of peo-
ple on earth."   ',
" But then the girl is so gentle, so
kind to the children, so= beautiful, and
so ladylike, that I can scarcely believe
her guilty."  Mrs.-Greatheart said this
in a sorrowful tone, for her' heart
yearned secretly to Hester, and human
nature spoke out. The Reverend Mr.
Smith smiled; and' brushed the crown
of his clerical hat with his coat-sleeve.
"Madam, a a clergyman, I respect
your sentisnents and feelings ; they be-
speak a generous- heart; yet, believe

O MER-SET.
me, it will be wrong to.yield to such
kind but mistaken notions. These
young thieving-girls are taught bland,
gentle, and insipuating manners; in
fact, it forms a part of their education-
and their trainig.'"
" True," cried Mrs. Greatheart, thus
enlightened;  'I dare say you are
right. But, reverend sir, what shall I
do when this Hester Somerset-----"
" Mary-Sparks, madam."
"This Mary Sparks calls again; shall
I give her in charge to the police ?'
"I think not,',answered the mem-
ber of the Fraud-Preventing Society.
"You say you have lost as yet no-
plate or other valuables; therefore,
though morally convinced that she in-
tends theft, being employed by the
gang, we lack proof to convict her. I
am of, opinion, in order to save need-
less trouble and unpleasant proceed-
ings, you had better quietly at once
dismiss the young woman, cautioning-
her never again to enter your house,
Thus your interests willbe protected,
and the wicked deigns of the knaves
upon a respectable family defeated."
"I will follow .your advice,.sir,"
said' Mrs. Greatheart; "and I most
sincerely thank you, and the excellent
society to whichyou belong, foryour
timely information. Bless my soul
what an escape I have had !     But
won't you honor me by takingaglass
of wine before you leave ?"
Mrs. Greatheart brought forward the
decanters, at the contents of which Mr.
Smith :cast a very longing eye: he,
however, shook his head, and mur-
mured something about its being con-
trary to his principles and his prac-
tice to  indulge in vinous drinks : and
yet, smiling benevolently, he said, on
second thoughts, as he felt much ex-
hausted in prosecuting the duties of
his office, he would take one glass.
This beingdone, the reverend function-
ary retired to pursue his philanthropic
way through, the streets of iniquitous
London; while the excited Mrs. Great-
heart -hastened to reveal:all she had
learned to the divers members of her
astonished family.
-Mr. Pike having, as we have -seen,
made himself acquainted withthe ad-
dresses of the respective- parties in-
whose families Hester gave her =music
lessons~ found no-diffeulty in following
up rapidly: his plan of action. The
consequence was that, in two days, he

HES TE"R   S1
had-called at all the houses frequented
by the poor piano-forte'teacher. We
have given theabove visit as an example
of his iode of proceeding; and since
he carefully concealed the wheret
about" of the Society's Chambers,,and
had adopted the widely-spread- and'
most blinding appellation of' Smith,"
he ran little or'no risk of detection.  1
Hismission being done the Reverend-
Mr. Smith, with his white neckerchief
and blacrsik stockiiigs; vanished'from'
the scene, and the "'raud-Preventing
Society" was solemnly entrenched in
its accustomed secrecy  the terrible
effects, as they bore on the fortunes of
Hester, only remained..

CHAPTER XVIII.

V.-,

O M E-RSET .                  15
'Fraud-Preventing Society' informs
me."
"System? Fraud-Preventing Socie-
ty ?"
"Yes, part, of the education, the
training--apparent -innocence, kind-
ness, gentleness, and so on"e Oh! it-is
shocking What dreadfull world we
live in !"
"Madam ! what does all this mean?
tell me l" cried Hester, in her eager-
ness and distress seizing the arm- of
Mrs. Greatheart.
"Off! girl !" exclaimed the other,
repulsing her. " Pollute ne not with
your touch."   But presently, half
relenting, she added, "Poor ,child! I
pity you nevertheless so early. to be
led into the paths' of vice-but not you
* so muchuas your employers are-guilty
-that dreadful gang !"
"A gang, madam ?"
"Of course: thatgang; that regularly
organized body of thieves,_those clever
adepts at knavery who send young girls
such as you into respectable London
families. Your name is not Hester
Somerset ; that is only an assumed one.
But words are useless. The labors of
the excellent 'Fraud-Preventing Socie-
ty' are fast breaking up the iniquitous
system."
" Where is this society, that I may
fly to them and defend my character ?"
cried Hester, wildly.
"I don't know," said Mrs. Great-
heart, in a cold accent; " it is a secret."
" Ah ! did a man-did a lawyer
named Pike tell you this?"
"Certainly not ; I know nothing of
such a person ; my information was
given me by a clergyman. But words,
I repeat, are utterly thrown away. I
cannot attempt to reform you; I can
only pity.; and since no plate, or_ any
other valuable article seems to have
disappeared--
"This is dreadful! insupportable ."
cried Hester, feeling acutely the implied
accusation of theft.
"I shall not,-young woman, give you
in charge to a constable. Indeed, Iam
instructed to let you go."
'Hear me, mnadam !" exclaimed
Hester; sobbing and dropping on her
knees; "=you are :deceived in; ;the
person; there is some dreadful inis-
take. -Myfather, though in' prison, is
an honorable man, and I am his honest
child, who would rather starve thaa

r       - .y

MISFORTUNES ACCUMULATE ON- HESTER.
IT so happened that the house of
Mrs. Greatheart was the -first which
Hester visited after the labors bf Mr.
Pike'had been brought to a close.
Little suspecting what a tale had been
communicated to the inmates,- the
young teacher came, as usual,-to give
musical-instruction to Mrs. Greatheart's
two daughters. The servant opened
the door to her as at other times, and
she proceeded to the drawing-room ;
but the piano remained locked, and
there was something extraordinary in
the demeanor of the children, who did
not welcome- her, or hang upon her
arm as on former occasions, but shrank
away in aversion or fear.
Presently Mrs. Greatheart, in a cold
and stately manner, entered the room.
She gazed slowly around, apparently
in search of some object, and muttered
to herself: "No, nothing is gone, and
there is nothing here to take--we are
safe."
The lady then bent a keen inquiring
look 'on Hester, neither bowing nor
nodding. The surprise of-the latter
incraased.-:
" So, you are come, Miss Innocent.
Very well; now, perhaps, you will have
the goodness to leave.the houseasgain."
*And why, dear madaa ?" asked
Hester, in great trepidation.
"Of course you- don't know why-
you are ignorant of everything-ah!
this is a -part of the system, as the

)


L._

116

HES'T.E:R 'S O MERS ET.

commit a theft.   Pause, then, and found every house at which she called
make further inquiries."           to instruct her pupils a place of hos-
"I cannot do it-I cannot :be mixed tility!  Here she was received with
up in the matter. I hate police-courts, threats, there accosted with bitter and
and I tremble at giving evidence at the rutting reproof; while some, giving no
Old Bailey. I took you, girl, to teach explanation at all, drove her from their
my children more on your pretty -ap- doors.
pearance and pleasing address than on  Again in her; heart-brokenness, she
any real recommendation. - I shall be applied to the magistrate; but that
wiser for the future. - Now, if you fundtionary, remembering her situation
please, quietly leave the hose. Stay, in connection with Mx. Pike, and the
I owe you for two lessons: here is the delusion under which, he considered,
money-go I" she labored, would not grant a sum-.
"And without any further explana- mons for the attorney to appear. He
tion, madam ? Bitter-bitter, indeed, could not, said the magistrate, consist..
is the persecution I bear !" Hester ently with his duty, continue to annoy
looked at ,the two children, for whom  a respectable professional gentleman
shie had conceived a strong 'affection ; by these groundless and-frivolous accu-
her eyes brimmed with tears, and in sations. Who came forward to show-
spite of their coldness-for they had that Mr. Pike was the clergyman, the
been instructed how to behave by their Mr. Smith, the member of the "Fraud-
mother-she stooped to embrace them. Preventing -Society ?"  No one but
"Will you, too, believe me wicked and Hester Somerset, the singularly de-
guilty ? One day, if God -be willing luded young woman. The idea was
to spare my life, you shall' love me absurd; and such statements he (the,
again.'                            magistrate) had not by any means time
The children, as Hester's tears to attend to. Then very sagely he gave
dropped on their faces, felt all their Iester advice to dismis these strange
former affection, revive; and, swayed notions from her mind with respect to
by Nature's instincts, they forgot the the attorney who acted for her father's
stern : lessons of their parent. They creditors. He pitied her friendless situ-
clung around. her neck, and said she ation, but, alas! there were too many
should not leave them'; and Hester, in young women circumstanced like her-
the depth of her own'sorrow, and love self in London. He hoped,' indeed,
for her little pupils, lost all command that she would never join a gang of
of herself. Even Mrs. Greatheart, for thieves; that she would profit by his
the ipoment, was affected; she turaed friendly words, an4 continue to get an
her head aside, and whispered, " Poor honest living.
being! she must have a good heart    Hester would spare her father pain,
after all. Alas ! that one like her and avoid exciting in - him that anger,
should'be made an instrument of evil fearful but unavailing, which, on some
by abandoned men-. No, I see through occasions, he had evinced, against his
it-she is 'acting'-'tis the part she is persecutors: she forbore, therefore,.
taught to perform. I must do- my disclosing to him what had happened.
duty.".                            Let him drag on, his-monotonous days
The mother then advanced,-and drew in the prison, sorrowful enough, but
her children away from the embracing not in torture. She only would rink
arms of Hester.. She cally rang the of the last bitter cap--she-only would
bell, and desired the servant to show writhe under feelings insulted, exaspe-
the "young woman" out. The poor rated-she-onlywould witness the frail
music teacher, forbearing  to offer canoe her hand had been prepare ingto
another observation, quitted the room, save her father from fortune's.wreoh,
Mrs. Greatheart' herself suspiciously shattered to pieces on the pitiless rook:
following. her'to the door; tosee that let him 'believe the slender- apk still
nothing, was purloined., Then that breasts the waters; for even that idea
lady returned to her children,' her niay cheer and beguile his weryhours-
mind greatly relieved, and feeling-very:
grateful for the kind warning given her
by the-benevolent Mr. Smith.
What was 'Hester's consternation
when, during the following week, she

HE S TE R SO M E RS E-T-.

CHAPTEl XIX.

HAXTLEY AND MB. PIKE HAVE ANOTHER
CONFERENCE.
" Ti  fountain has been cut off again,
and the stream must dry up," said Mr.
Pike to Hartley. "You see I grow
quite poetical, sir-halI ha ! In plain
words, our plan has answered admi-
rably, the people have all shut their
doors against the girl, so her money-
making in that way is for ever at=an
end."
" You are a clever knave, my friend
-a very clever knave 1" said Hartley,
shaking the little man by the hand.
"Not a knave, sir, if you please.
Thr ugh these exertions, do I'not gain
a title to my annuity, which, being
laid by, will form a 'provision for a
peaceful and happy old age ?'Do I
not, by bailing the designs of the,
daughter, aid in working out a just
ptuishment for the'fathert Yesajust
punishment for his pride, and for his
having-pardon   me-blighted   your
happiness by defrauding you of the
Woinan you loved. How then can I be
a knave for keeping Mr. Somerset in a
place he so richly deserves ? I should
rather deserve the character were I to
assist him in escaping from prison, and
so violate the laws of this. country.
No, no, Mr. Hartley ; call ne not a
knave."    =
The moody Templar smiled, and beg-
ged the attorney's pardon. The word
was not uttered as a term of reproach,
but of commendation. Mr. Pike was
satisfied, and bolted his office door,
lest any client might enter- without
first knocking.
"But your inner door," observed
Hartley, "stands open; I hope your
servant is not there to overhear us."
"I have no.servant,",said the-fund -
holder: " I-I can't afford such a thing.
Servants 'are ruinous beings, and I am
thdeavoring to savea little for my old
years"   s       -   .
'Well, confess this girl, this Hester
Somnerset, troubles me greatly; indeed,
she seems e persevering,'. that one
wouldthinkithe creaturereallyimagines
she shall ultimately defeat us-; that is,
obtain her father's freedom. No sooner,
do_ e drive her from one point-than
she flies to another."
'Exactly: we cut off the plant one

li1T

day, only'to see itsprout up the next
as vigorous as ever."
"Can we not put an end to this alto.
gether?"
" How?" said Pike,:turning upin-
quiringly his shrivelled face.
"By removing the girl."
"RenovingCher,?"
"Yes, that she may trouble usno
more."
"There is danger in that," said Mr.
Pike, thoughtfully ; "dangerto your--
self as well as to me."
"Pshaw! danger."
"Miss Hester is -no infant; the other
was an infant, and couldn't tell tales;
we, carried that other of), and it was
dropped in the street. Wherever the
child may now be-if she isn't dead-.
I hope she is.an honest servant;atd so
not the worse for the change. Oi?!es,
I trust the dear innocent I-'bore away
from- the halls of pride and luxuryis
now happy."
"Never mind that child, and lten't
allude to things of past'years _ intruth,
I had nearly forgotten that' matter:4f
'Somerset's eldest ,hild,"  observed
Hartley, moving'in his chair {rather
1menisily.
"What can-we do with this young
woman ?" asked Mr. Pikes
"Thrust hernout ofthe waystop
her hand, and silence hertongue."
The emaciated Jtimbs of' the miser
trembled in his oldblack clothes and
his cheek'took a livid, huea sle slowly
turned' his eyes to Hartley.
"What ails thee, friend ?" whispered
the Templar.
'Tis dangerous, I say; far too-dan-
gerous."
"What?"
" The-spilling=--of--her blood l"
"Dismiss such a thought; youmis'
take me entirely. I would not' have
thee burden thy sensitive conscience
with, the memory of a murder.   I
meditate nothing algainstthe life of the
girl "
Mr. Pike breathed again, and, wiping
his forehead with his coarse cotton
handkerchief, hisagitation  passed
away; while a -satisfied.sbile drew up
the corners =ofhisthin mouth.
" I simply1wish?,".observed-Hartley,
that she' should be =taken out gi
London-quietly, but permanently) out
ofLondon. Can you'dvise no means ?"
Mr.-Pike mused, hiachin resting en
his handf ii a few minutes he spoker,

a                                                                                                                                 vf                                  ...                        y,   : ) "40

, .,d, .,

i
k

-


118

RES T;ER 8 OME:R SRT;

4

"Mr. Hartley, I have, on several
occasions, run considerable risks. The
matter of the Regent-street mi liner,
with the feigned illness of Mr-. Snierset,
and the alleged robbery in Oxford-
street, went offwell enough,:;but the
affair of the spoiled picture was rather
an awkward business, for I wa ssum-
moned before the, magistrate; while
this last transaction-my personating
the Reverend 1r. Smith,.member of
the Fraud-Preventing:Society,' would,
if discovered, place -me in a very dan-
gerous -position; ,nevertheless, Iwill
never flinch-L am again at your ser-
vice."
Worthy man," said Hartley, "you
shall lose nothing'by your fidelity, de-
pend uponit."'
"It has just occurred to me that we
might cause Miss Hester tc be carried
away from- London in a very natural=
manner. ,..mean that the act, should
it come to light, will appear to the
world by no means strange; but .only
one of those, bold deeds.which so fre-
quently occur, prompted, by human
passions.  At the same time,.;come
what maysthe party who decoys the
young woman will have to bear all the
odium that may attach to the 'outrage."
"A very good'-a capital idea., But
who will be.fool;enough to elope with
this needy child "
"I have gained information that a
youngman, is deeply in love with, her,
and, that Miss Hester has rejected his
suit, probably;because he is' defoi-medb
-a~ hunchback."
Pike's meditated project was in-
stantly apparent tothe clear head- of
Hartley, and he saw how much might
be made of the incident.
" Ahunchback ?-is he in a low walk
oflife ?".
"He is a violin-player in the.orches-
tra of a minor theatre."
Anotheridea rose in the fiendish
minad otartley. Evenhis familysp'ride
was second to his revenge. He would
rather that his niece were the wife of a
ploughman than: of   , peer. Hester
borne off, and married to a theatrical
musician, a hideous deformed being--
here again he should humiliate his
enemy,:proud, although in prison ; and
hereturn one screw more in the instra-
ment of.torture.
"Mr. Pike, I approve of your scheme,
but I leave the details, and the carrying
e         out of the business, entirely to yourself,

being satisfied as to your sound judg-
ment and unvarying sagacity.    Re-
member, my friend,,however great
your exertions may be, you shall lose
nothing, I repeat, by your fidelity."
CHAPTER XX.
A COFFEE-HOUsE NEAR THE RLEE PRIsON.
-THE HUNCHBAnK MUSICIAN is raMr-
ED TO COMMIT A VILLANY.
A6 the .pedestrian.:passes through,
Farringdon-street,.the paving stones of
which cover the renowned Fleet River,
up which, in days of old, Dutch and
other European ships were wont tosail,
on hostile or commercial, purposes -in-
tent, as far as thebridge =that spanned
the streamat the foot of Holborn-hill
-as the pedestrian, we say, wends
through the;time-honoredthproughfare,
his attention is drawn to a remarkable
fact. It consists in the melancholy
exhibition of a continued, series of
spirit-vaults and undertakers' shops.
On the east side above the Fleet Prison
the principal portion of the houses be-
longs to publicans and undertakers,
and their places ofbusiness occur, as
if by the mutual consent of the owners,
nearly alternately. The common ob-
server ;will conclude that the men of
black, those friends of death, those-
familiars of- the charnel-house, have
ensconced themsa ves there because
spirit-shops abound, well knowing that
these invariably bring great custom to
their dark profession. They might
naturally reason on the advantage. of
being upon the spot, for as the draught
of fiery poison kills, so no time would
be lost in huddling the victims into
their narrow homes, and bearing them
away where the "dram" shall cease to
excite, and the tavern brawl be heard
no more.
We are, however, induced to ascribe
the phenomenon to another cause. We
must travel back even a few centuries
on the great dusty'road of London
records, in order to obtain-a solutionof
the enigma. We think, then, 'the
memorable, "House" connetedwith
our narrative, the Fleet Prison, origi-
nally gave rise to this superabundance
of spirit-marts and undertakers' shops.
Who so thirsty as prisoners?- The
lBed1 Indian, pants after the' "fire

119

water" not more eagerlythan, gene-
rally speaking, the man of sorrow and
of debt.. Spirits might not have been
publicly-sold in *the'prison, but the old
wardens, for a small.bribe, winxked at
their introduction through the gate.
Where .did men die'so fast as within
those damp unwholesome dens? .Phy-
sical suffering was there, when Newton
and Bambridge -had recourse to the
chain, and plied the scourge;:'broken
.    hearts were ,there, when many an un-
happy inmate,, virtuous but unfortu-
nate,s pined without hope.
Oh . yes, the Fleet Prison was the
great patron of the spirit-sellerdadthe
coffin-maker. The "House" brought
them large custom; theydrove a thriving
business. within the shadow of its-grim
walls; -and therefore these merchants
established marts close by; while,
generation after generation, the: sons
have' perpetuated the trade;, and 'are
loath, even at :the .present. hour,.to
quit the scene where' their forefathers
amassed so much money.
At'the time of'our story, the.street
was called-Fleet; Market, vegetable
stalls and butchers' shambles being
ranged along the. centre of the thorough-
fare. We must enter a smallcoffee-house
which stood at' the corner -of an alley
on the west side.    Theroom -was
divided, into a series of 'little boxes
painted red, the 'partition between each
box being about five feet high. In the
early part of .the day, the hduse was
much "frequented, because gardeners'
and othermarket-folks usuallyrise.with
the sun; after its setting, the place was
solitary enough.
At this coffeehouses, Flemming,
when   not engaged at the theatre,
frequently spent :his evenings.  He
had .now drawn   himself up in the
corner of the inner box. His usual
cup.of coffee, was drunk, and he. was
busily engagedwith the old stump of-
a pen copying' music.' He continued
for a considerableatime absorbed-in-this
occupation, when a gentleman, dressed
inrusty black, quietly -stole into the
box, and seated himself on therextre-
mity of the form. The coffee-room was
almost deserted; Flemming, therefore,
turned rather angrily towards the in-
truder,a&amp;nd looked at shim as much- as
to say,"Gould you' not seat yourself
elsewhere? there is plenty of-room?
But the' stranger did not take the
implied hint;he only looked hard and

4'

I

i        rub    i                                                                                         *!"                1.e                                                                            £                               F                                                     Y     '             i
..               1

kindly at the hunchback, and even shuf-
fled a little-nearer Otowards him.
"Oh! .is it youMr. Jones'?" said
Flemming. ":I beg pardon; I am glad
to see'you."
"Mr. Jones-extended:his hand tothe
hunchbacksmiling='benignantly. :e
did not" take off-his. hat, the' brim of
which was ,remarkably wide,.but he
quietly pressed it furtherover his-eyes;
his drawn-up shirt-collar, too, concealed
much sof the lower part of his-face, the
mouth only being seen extending-from
one white linen-point to the other.'
It was at this coffee-house thatilem-
ming firstmet Mr. Jones, who appeared
to himia singularly discreet and quiet
person. Mr. Jones:introduced-himself
as a man of letters, and an author;'but,
becomingTacquainted with'Flemming's
pursuits, he immediately, in additidh
to his literary predilections, professed
a great love for the divineart of-musie
Indeed, Mr. Jones-had seemed 'to take
a strong=interest in -the welfare as well
as the occupation of the solitary young
man;. and the poor deformed, rarely
receiving courtesy or attention,-felt'his
gratitude awakened while his heart
warmed towards the=stranger.
"May Ipresume," said the gentle-
man in rusty black, after, a-little 'de-
sultory conversation, and edging'more
closely to Flemnming-" may I presume
to wish you joy?"
"Joy Ion what account?:Becautse
we brought out a.neW-piece last night
at the theatre-? -Yes, it was gather suc-
cessful."
"'Nonsense l" said Mr. Iones. "I
allude-to=more:personal matters.'I.
allude to a subject which, it appears to
me, will greatly affectyour happiness
in life.- Ah I scarcely know why, my
dear young gentleman, but I have taken
a great fancy to you ; my heart yearns
to you even as to a son."
Upon this, the worthy man looked
tenderly  e the hunchback, end:gently
pressed his hand.'
{'",I- ammuch obliged to you; sir, for
the interest which yow-take inne "'
'"Itinay be" pursued the old-gentle-
man, yf thathavinglostmy own-beloved
son, havingemournedaer :the grave-of
my only child'I see in you his lkeness
his. thoughtflniitelligent features reo
need. But spare me,Ibeseech you;
these sad remembrances are- tooimuch
for .me.  enough that-Iwatch over
your destinies; and pray for your hap-

HES"-T E*,R- S0XEl"S'E'T:.

" ,
R

x
8
r
a
T
T
9
z
t
a
F
1
1
r
f
J
I
i
r
t.

_                 -vim=


0

120

h E=S-TER SOMIE'R S ET.

1
i
r

piness. Iam poor, very pov crI would
immediately do=something for you ;n A
pecuniary way; as it is, I; cah only ad-
vise-and direct,"
Mr. Jones was silent for a few mi-
nutes his mannerswas deeply abstact-
ed; yet, in familiar phrase,:we 'Cmay
say'he was meditating on the:best way
to spring upon his'game, and was beat-
ing;c refully about the bush.
Yes, my dear;youth, I wishyou to
,be happy;;consequently,' I "must fel
much interest'inr'your-connectionwith
that young and" aniable-lady, 'who, I
have reason to believe; possesses your
heart. : Ah .the :tender passion-I
speak from  the experience of ,early
7ears'- is,the ,great source of all real
joys in, this poor and barren world.
Tell' me; Iask,'may I .not wishyou joy?
Has not =theydear young creature ac-
cepted your suit?"
Deep ,gloom :shadowed the counte-
nance of Flemming, and he cast at the
man who addressed him look full of,
anguish, but did not speak.
" Pooryouth !- -unhappy child!"said'
the sympathining Mr. Jones, alias our
old friend, 'Mr. Pike.  I 'read:the-
truth ; shehas-refused you. :But why
1o8cast down ? There is hope ret."
"None-none 11"said Flemmmg with
a groan.
"Oh! yes,there is, hope. -I know
what woman is; experience has taught
rue thegrand 'secret.. The love of wo-
mfan is-always tobe-won."
"But not by. 1e-not by a being'
like me 1"
Yes,f by one like you. Your fea-
turesare ,ine-Antinous-like--your
mind is theinind of a philosopher and
a poet. I affirm, Mark Flemming, you
are in every:respect worthy of Miss
Somerset!"
,:The poor hunchback looked incredu--
lously at the speaker, and shook his
head.
"Partiality, 'my:'rgood friend, has
rendered you blind."
"No.; Lean 'see,"'said Mr. Pike,,for
-   so shall :e nowcall the counterfeit
Jones ; "and I can appreciate,' too.
But listen. If the dear nd beautiful
girl has, through ,ignorance, ofUyour
merits,; indeed refused you,I an not
one to advise:huinility on your part.
Rinility never won;a=victory overthe
will andi heart of-wbman.- Believe a
man deeply reading the book of'human
uature,- who says it: we must enot

H-ESTE-:R S

kneel, abut-rather take: higher ground
after being repulsed. And why ? be-
cause man is the superior animal; yes,
remember, this-.the superior animal,
my boy. 'Tis ours not to cringe and
pray, but toconquer and command I"
The :little lawyer, on making this
bold, and, in.his opinion, manly and
philosophical assertion, struckthe table
with his clenched fist.
"Alas !" said Flemming, "what you
say may be true or false; it concerns
me little. I only feel that Miss Somer-
set is lost to me forever--she loves
another!"
"That's it,-is it? So much-the bet'
ter; more glory in triumphing over a
rival.",
"Why, you speak as 'though the task
were nothing :to -conquer a wqman's
antipathies, and bend'her to our will."
" And it is nothing," said Mr. Pike,
in -a confident tone; "that is, nothing
when: one is resolved to do ,it. .The
brave;of heart must-triumph ; it is, the
law of nature. but tell me candidly,
do 'yourthink your happiness would be
enhanced by Miss Somerset-becoming
your wife ?"
The eyes of 'the hunchback sparkled
andiflashed,,until, like-diamonds, they
seemed 'to be:instinct; with light; the
glow of,-enthusiasmmounted' from his
cheeks 'to his -forehead. 'Rising from
the form,, he whispered into Pike's ear :
"To possess' her would be paradise
.4o live without heris --"
"Very well ; I: understand. Your
passion -is precisely whatit :should{be,
and, if gratified, will form.the, spring
of all earthly bliss. My:dear youth----
my adopted son--if- Imay be' allowed
to call you so--the young lady, never
fear, shall be'yours;I",
Mr.= Pike moved out of the box, and
looked cautiously-aroun d; no listener
was near ; one old man, only, at the ex-
tremity of the room, hung asleep over
his toast. The time had come when-the
houseiwas usuallyclosed for the night;
b'ut he crossed to the'waiter and ordered
two cups ;of coffeessaying that:he and
his friend wished remain half an
hour' longer', having some particular
businessto transact.
a= Pike returned -o Flemming, and he
now-spoke in 'lowj cautious whispers.
For a=longe time the.hunchback was a
patient=listener, while the other ap-
peared to be proposingsome plan  r
execution. Pike wa~s isold and cn,

but the nervousness and excitability of
Flemming Were roused to a fearful
degree.
, "I would win her-I would marry
her !" cried the latter; "but to disre-
gard her own feelings and wishes-to
compel her to become my wife-this is
base ; this is an outrage not to be con-
templated."
"'You reason falsely, dear youth.
I am a man of experience ; I know the,
world, and human nature ; I am a
strong advocate, too, for all that is
humane and honorable.    Look you,
what peasant or beggar-boy is this she
has set her affections on? A scamp,
no doubt ; a drunken, idle vagabond,
who, fit for nothing else, enlisted as a
common soldier, and is now sunk in
dissipation, or worn by disease, in a
foreign land."
":Ah!" saidFlemming, eagerly,"that's
a good view of the question ; such an
idea never struck me before. Thank
you, thank you! I will believe this."
" Why, to save her from such a
wretch would be a meritorious deed.
Women will not understand, or believe
what is good for them. Obstinacy is
the besetting sin of the dear, pretty
creatures. But be it yours to rescue
Miss Somerset from her evil position,
and make her happy."
"Againsther will?"askedFlemming,1
"Yes, against her will."
This is singular.reasoning, I con-
fess, and quite new to me."
"It is philosophical, , sound, ,and l
good, nevertheless."
"But ,a serious difficulty occurs :toa
me.   How, in the name of law and I
the holy church, shall I induce Missa
Somerset to marry me ?"^t
"Why," answered Pike,. "in these i
cases, we cannot always do as we wish. t
Circumstances are our masters. We
must use compulsion."
"Fiend?" said Flemming, winding
his muscular, trembling fingers about
Pike's arm; "are you a man or a
devil?'"
S"The first, I hope ; and, perhaps,
your good genius,"
- ",An infernal one,. rather, leading
me on to sin and perdition I"      b
Mr. Pikesaw at once that Fleruming b
possessed high and. stern principles, a
he had, therefore, to call into requisi-
tion all hislogipal powers in order to t
bear; these principles down., .His so- d
phistry so far succeeded, that, in a s
9

L JL

,

ME:RSET.                        121
brief -time, he lulled to.rest the first
rebel emotions which virtue and a sense
of right raised in Flemming's,reast.
"But admit you reason. rightly"
said the hunchback, "in asserting that,
to work out good ends, we rmustfre-
quently have, recourse; to means ap-
parently evil, is iS probable or possible
that Miss Somerset, after such &amp; ter-
rible transaction, would ever love me?"
" Certainly she would; your kind-
ness will soothe her; she will become
acquainted with your worth and super
rior intellect. Her former preposses-
sions will vanish, and love, the deep
and entire love of a wife,.will be the
result."
"Now could I believe this, or that
such indeed would be.the happy con-
sequence, I would risk breaking for
once the law of man,.and beg pardon
of God for violating his."
The clock on St. Andrew's-hill struck
twelve.
" Please, gentlemen," said the waiter,
drawing near to the box, "the alf
hour is, up, and .we, must shut.the
house."
The two rose together, and, having
paid for their, refreshment, walked
forth into the street. A little longer
Pike urged his friend to make up his
resolve on the subject under considera-
tion. Flemniing wavered and argued,
being tossed on a sea of perplexity.
One moment he repulsed his .coun
panion as a monster, and ;the.next,
listening to his reasonings, and blinded
by his own passion, he regarded him
as an oracle of wisdom. Nevertheless,
he' prayed for another day to, consider
of the matter; and once more thanidng
he pseudo man of letters for the warm
interest which he took in his welfare,
he hunchback returned to his lodgings.
CHAPTER XXL
THE STRUGGLE -BETWEEN VICE AND
vIRTn.
FLEMMING threw himself upon his
ed, yet it was-not toslumber. Thz
rain was in -a state of too intense
4tivity; .shebloodrushed-along;their
tingling channels" too tumultuusly
o admit of-the approach of the bagm
stilling angel of sleep., Thoughts
themes, hopes, fears, horrible ideas


122

HESTE-R SOMERSET.

w

her this grievous wrong cut him to the
heart.
Alas ! poor wanderer on the desert
of a despised existence! weak strag-
gler with the strong passions of hu-
manity ! we would throw, a veil over
that night of mental conflict and keen
suffering.  Thou  didst strive  long
against the sweeping tide of all that
is evil in our nature ; but the Tempter
was there. The fiends held out to thee
the intoxicating joy of sin, and, the
barren bliss of virtue.  They mad-
dened thy soul with their hellish cup,
and they triumphed. ' Thou wouldst
make the helpless one thy victim.

like wave on wave, followed each
other, and flooded his soul. Y et the
fair being; the subject. of all his wild
cogitations, was asleep in the apart-
ment above him. Her mind, though
steeped;in sorrow, was free from guile,
therefore .the angel spread his downy
- winnowing wings over her, and soothed
her with visions of radiance and beauty,
and opened to her pure spirit glimpses
as of a fairer world.
Flemming regarded Hester as his
victiin, and yet in the light of his
cherished wife. Then the-idea pre-
sented itself of her aversion, of her
horror at 'his deformity; and such
thoughts were followed by the con-
virtion that nothing short of stratagem
or force would ever make her his.
The wily arguments of the Tempter
possessed their due weight ; yet Flem-j
ming's judgment was sound enough to
enable him to distinguish right from
wrong ; and he could not disguise the
fact that, in carrying Hester away
from  her home and her father, and
urging her to become his wife against
her will, he should commit a heinous
crime. - The question to be decided
was, should he, preserving his honor
and honesty, stoically abandon her, or,
listening to his passion, perpetrate thea
wrong ?                        -
Had his mind, by a course of profli-
gacy, become hardened, or had his
principles been -less high and fixed, his
line of-conduct would soon have been
adopted, and -the struggle, if any,
easily brought to a close. But now,
all that was pure and noble was op-
posed- to all that was black and selfish.
Virtue combated with Vice. His heart,
in a 'word, was like a battle-ground,
where the fiends strove with angels.
"Mine-mine 1" he muttered to him-
self; ."she shall be mine. The despised
hunchback, the mocked, the trampled
on, the loathed, shall know one bliss at
least before he dies."
His hands clutched the bedclothes ;
his eyesin the darkness gleamed
wildly, and he lay for some moments
in a dream of happiness.. But speedily.
his better feelings revived; the voice of
conscience sounded through thecham-
bere of his soul : the distress of -Hes-
ter, theeanguish of :the imprisoned
father, appalled"his fancy,and above
all, the: unprotected, friendless -posi-'
tion of=the dutiful child made appeal to
his mhercy, and the thought of doing

THE MEETING IN BARTHoLoMEw-CLosE--
THE WEB IS ~WEAVING MORE CLOSELY
AROUND HESTER.
MR.- PiRE and. Flemming met, by
appointment the next day, in the small
square north of Christ-Church Hospi-
tal,, known by the name of Bartholo-
mew-Close. The attorney was all en-
ergy, good-humor, and, buoyancy of
spirits, but the hunchback was reserv-
ed, stern, and silent.
" How is it with thee, my dear young
friend ? You look pale, and your man-
ner is disordered ; but take courage-
yes, courage -is the noblest attribute of
man ; without it we can achieve nothing
great, nothing worthy of our destiny."
"And nothing stupendously wicked,"
added Flemmiag.
" That which constitutes wickedness
is a matter of opinion-quite a matter
of opinion.  Some call Alexander,
Casar, and Napoleon wicked ; others
hail them ?as heroes and deni-gods.
To. pluck the flower of beauty, to bear
away the goddess of your worship, this
is not wickedness. You do but follow
the great examples of the worthies of
old; the names of Paris and Theseus
are crowned with the deathless bays of
poetry for the abductions they made.
That whieh French and other Euro-
pean kings, enjoying every gratification
besides, did not scruple to do, surely a.
subject; whose means of pleasure are
so contracted, may well be excused in
performing.  But we must descend
from the classical and the past to the,
life-of the present hour. AhI my

HESTER S OM E R S E'T.

friend, this existence of ours is lament-
ably short ; let us enjoy the dream
while it is in our power ; let us not
dash away the' cup of rapture when
offered to our lips !"
"A truce to this philosophy 1". ex-
claimed Flemming, impatiently; "you
are a man of letters, Mr. Jones, and I
am a devotee of music ; we cannot,
therefore, exactly understand  each
other."
" Speak not so, my adopted son ; I
wish'our sentiments'to be in harmony,
And our esteem and love to be mutual.
But how say you ? will you possess the
being of your- heart, or will you re-
nounce her? Will you render yourself
and her happy, or will'you be content
to be lonely- and miserable ? What
determination have you formed ?"
"1The struggle is over-passion has
triuinphed -hell has prevailed," said
Flemming, groaning inwardly.
Mr. Pike seized his hand, and cor-
dially shook it. The little smiling
visage of the lawyer offered, indeed, a
striking contrast to the countenance of
the other, which was livid, and had a
ghastly expression.,
'Right, my dear friend, right ; your
decision is-that of a man of sense and
of courage. But, out'on you, boy ! you
are always dreaming of the bugbear
crime.  Had you lived as 'long, and
studied as much as I, these mists which
now float around your intellect would
have vanished, and in the pure sun-
shine you would behold 'the sublime
forms of'Reason and Truth.""
",To business, Mr. Jones.  What
now is your advice ?"
" Yes, certainly, to business. I have
got up the programme of that imagin-
ary concert, which, we. must suppose,
will be held in the West-end of London.
Let me see; on what night had we bet-
ter fix it?"
Mr. Pike, as he spoke, drew from his
pocket a long slip of, paper, which re-
senibled any 6theit theatrical or.concert
bill, except that it was 'in manuscript,
he himself being too cautiousto einploy
afprinter.
"What night, I say, ;shall our con-
cet e e?"
"Sir," said Flemming, "you speak
as if I were ertainof winning Miss
&amp;onierset'5 coseit toaccompany us."
"" True'' Ioalfnfoiot th t little
matter; blit think the innocent lure
weshall     ) use will;revai over h'er

123

scruples; ,she is so morbidly eager to
obtain money for that father of 'hers.
Mr. Flemming, let us moveto the"dead
wall yonder ; I don't like these houses
here--some one may be listening."
The com panions walked to the spot
named, and there, in cautiously why
pered words, the apparently kind pa=
tron and the blinded prote9 consult-
ed further together, and settled their
plans.
The day succeeding the above 'meet-
ing, Flemming resolved to address
Hester: By a long and violent strug-
gle, he had thrust aside his better prin-
ciples, and brought his' mind to em
brace a black determination. Fo the
first time in his life ie'was about to
act the hypocrite and villain.
Flemming entered Hester's room,
holding a printed programme in his,
hand ; for, at the suggestion' of Pike,
to carry out a seeming of reality, le
had caused a few bills tQ be printed.
His step was steadyand his hand did
not tremble; his countenance only.wa
deadly pale.
"Miss Somerset, may I say ' word
to you'? May I ask you a question ?"
"Walk in," exclaimed Hester, cheer=
fully ; for, endeavoringd toforget' her
late 'sorrows, she had -been busily en-
gaged thinking of some method-to rg-
trieve her fortunes. At present she
was without employment, and had
formed no definite plans forthe future.
Hester did -not regard Flemmningwith
feelings of aversion, but had forgotten
and forgiven the past. She hopedand
believed that his: good sense had en-
abled' him to conquer the unfortunate
passion he once entertained. 'Perceiv-
ing now the bill in his hand, she ad-
dressed him without embarrassmenti
"Well, Mr. Flemming, you offered
good advice to me on one occasion,;and
I profited by it, until the enemy worked
my ruin. What have you to propose
noW ?"
"Not much," said Flemming7 in- a
husky voice ; "but believirig'that your
time just at present is unoccupied, and
that a few pounds gained by';a' 'little
exertion Wduld not altogether be unac
ceptabl-"
"They would be mot -acceptable.
My poor-father's weekly' allowance,
whether I labor or not, must 'be Tpad'
and I wish to procure for hini'some
necessaries which he has lot gsto'od in
need' of."

9                      V

,

CHAPTER XXII.

+                                                                                         -                , - .
. ,.                         _


124

HESTER SOMERSE-T.

These words of the innocent, unsus-
pecting, and dutiful child powerfully
affected Flemming. Hegazed in her
beautiful face wistfully. And must he
overthrow her fond 'filial projects, and
link the lot of this lovely confiding
being to that of a monster like himself ?
He was unable to proceed with the
words he had intended to utter, but
presently subdued the choking in his
throat:-
"I have here the programme of a1
concert in which I am interested, being
one of the projectors. It takes place at
the Hanover-square Rooms in a few
days' time. The instrumental and vo-
cal performers have all been engaged,
except one ; we are still in rant of a
good piano-forte-player."
"Impossible !" exclaimed Hester ;
" I have never played in public."
"But every one must have a begin-
ning, dear Miss Somerset ; and this
debAt-may be highly advantageous to
you ; it may lead to other engagements,
and ultimately prove -the means of
your gaining much money."
Much money-this was the hre, the
all-powerful spell, that ever operated
on the mind of Hester. The obtaining
of her father's freedom was the subject
always uppermost in her thoughts. To
advance this end, what feelings would
she not sacrifice? what project would
she not dare ?-
" But even if I were inclined to offer
my services, do you think, Mr. Flem-
ming, I can play well enough to fill the-
part assigned to me,?"
"There is no question of it.",
"I doubt it," said Hester, shaking
her head.
"The sum is small," observed Flem-
ming, anxious to bring his task to a
close ; "'very small, I allow,; the piano-
forte-player for the evening is to receive
five pounds."
"Five pounds. I.Ithink it a great
deal-very handsome.   Five pounds
would support my father and myself
for a month."
"Then make yourself mistress of
the money, dear Miss. Somerset; no-
thing, I: assure'you, will be easier."
"Let me see the programme," said
rester, eagerly ; "what tunes shall I
have to play? there is so little time for
preparation."
"The tunes selected are very simple;
I think you  nothem all. Iut say
the wo-d, that you will attendhe eon-

cert, and I will immediately hire a
piano, so that you may at once begin
to practise."
You are kind-verykind. I do not
know how to express my obligations,
to you. This concert, coul4 I muster
courage to attend it, might indeed be
a desirable opening for me. Well, I
will endeavor," ,she exclaimed, her-
heart palpitating, and the color rush-
ing to her cheeks-" I will endeavor to
conquer my timidity; I will consider
the step as a great-and a solemn duty,
and then I shall be supported. Heaven
bears me witness that I am influenced-
by no promptings of vanity, no desire
of public applause. My heart and my
soul are devoted to the cause of a suf-
fering and imprisoned father."
"Then we have your consent ?" said
the exulting Flemming. "I will ac-
quaint our gentlemen that the parties
now filled.. Everything shall be ren-
dered easy to you,; and I doubt not
you will give high satisfaction to all en-
gaged in this musical entertainment."
When Flemming had retired to his
room, he crept into a corner. Anguish
of the most poignant description min-
gled with his happy dreams. 'Hisrun-
couth limbs'shook as with a frightful
palsy, and he struck his forehead'with
his bony hand.
"Wretch! liar ! worseJhan murderer
that I am ! What do Imeditate ? Into
what an abyss would I plunge this
child of innocence and nature?9 But I
adore her-my passion devours me
Hypocrisy, cruelty, I must embrace
them-guilt, death, Imust defythem !"

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE HOUSE OF MOCK-MARRIAGE AT
wEsTMINsTER.
Nor far from the venerable abbey at
Westminster, and lying in a south-
west direction fromthat ;building, is a
district which has long been famous
for 'the profligacy, drunkenness and
other vicious propensities of itsinhabait-
ants.  What the Alsatga of-White-
friars was two centuriesagoethe region
which boastedathe Sazicuary and Cax-
ton's rihtin gfice has been fpp-the
lat fi y years, andis lmst. to-day.
The propin.uity of:aristotratiWhit-

HESTER SOMERSET.

hall, and the gay park of St. James's,
has imparted no polish to the rough
and ragged colonists; nor has the
divine harmony of the bells of St. Mar-
garet,=though' pealing over the spot,
solemnized their souls, or, by remind-
ing them of a hereafter and a God, de-
terred-them from one act of low iniquity.
The place, in a word, seems entirely to
have been given over to the, squalid-
ness of poverty, and the }dominion of
vice.
-iAt the south extremity of this region,
and lying back from one of the main
thoroughfares, there existed, at , the
time of our narrative, a short street al-
most--destitute of inhabitants. The
reason- of this comparative solitude
might be that the houses were in a very
dilapidated- condition, some having
their windows and doors battered in,
and others presenting large apertures
in their roofs, which circumstance
might lead to the conclusion that they
proved such bad property to the land-
lord, that he felt no inclination to ex-
pend any money in repairs. On the;
other, hand, the inhabitants of the
neighboring district might, by mutual
consent, have appropriated these houses
to the transaction of certain business,
turning them into depots for the recep-
tion of merchandise which had not
been paid for; or into places of ap-
pointment for the commission of sundry
criminal acts. Consequently, thieves
and murderers, having a common in-
terest in the premises so well suited to
their designs, guarded the spot with
peculiar care and zealous love.
That one house, however, contained
some sort of inhabitants was apparent,
inasmuch as smoke was seen issuing
from a half-fallen chimney, and, in the
windows, fragments of brown paper
were pasted over divers shattered panes,
with a view, evidently, of protecting
the inmates from wind and rain.
A man, now in the dusk of the even-
ing, approached the door of the forbid-
ding:and ominous-looking domicile.
He tried to turn what appeared to be a.
loek, but it would not move ; he pushed
against the door, .imagining it might
yield to pressure, but he pushed to no
purpose; then, for knocker there was
none, he struck smartly the lower panel
with his boot. This painful and awk-
iard application for admission having-
been made again and again, a little
window was obseved at length to open

125

above the door, and the next -minute a
head presented itself, rendered huge
and. uncomely'by a frightful mass of
red matted hair; -at the same time, two
bloodshot eyes glared down suspicious-
ly on him who sought entrance into
that house of dilapidation and mystery.
"What do you want?" said a gruff
voice, issuing from between two huge
flame-colored whiskers.
"The parson."
"What do you mean? there's no
parson here. We don't preach, man
we are honest tradespeople."
" Of course you are ; but I want the
parson, for all that."
The large head drew in for -a few
inches, and seemed to be meditating.
Again it spoke :--
" I don't know you. Who sent you
here ?"
" A friend."
" That's nothing. Friends turn-trait-
ors and enemies. 'Tis so in the great
world, and so in ours."
The visitor mentioned a name which
seemed well known to the occupier-of
the house, for he instantly exclaimed,
"Ho, ho ! we're understanding each
other nQw. Perhaps the parson is in
the house. Anything else ?"
"The password- Free marriage-to
all the earth.' Now are you satisfied?".
"Yes," said the owner of the head,
which instantly disappeared.
In a few minutes the un drawing of
a rusty bolt was heard, and the black
door opened just wide enough to admit
the body of the applicant, who glided
in. The passage where the men stood
was almost dark, one tallow candle only
burning in a hole in the wall, formed
by the removal of some bricks. The
doors of the two rooms -on the ground
floor were carefully closed ; but un-
washed, wo'rmeaten stairs, flanked 'by
half-broken balusters, intimated that
dwelling apartments might be found'
above.
Mr. Pike was constitutionally bold,
or his heart would have failed him,
thus placed in such a den, face to face
with the ferocious man of the huge
head. The fellow was 'dressed in a
brown fustian jacket; his brawny chest
was open, rough as the chest of Esau,
except that the hair, matching with his
whiskers, was"of a fiery hue. His
nether .person  displayed  corduroy
breeches ard yellow leather gaiters.'

V -

1
E
M

M7,M4 .7-7-

?=
-.


126

HESTER SOMERSET.

" I am the keeper of the house. .A
customer, I suppose ?"
"Yes," said Mr. Pike. " This is th
first time I have had any business ii
your way, but it may lead to more."
"Thank'ee," said the man, whose
name was Judkins.
"A good institution yours, friend
when people want quick nuptials. _ Bu
don't think me a fool; I know, o
course, your marriages are worthless.'
"1Worthless !'' said Mr. Judkins
with a frown.f
" Come, come, friend, we understand
each other," said Pike, taking the
man's rough hand. " Good blind to
satisfy girls, scrupulous. damsels, who
else woul  never, listen, perhaps,, to
those whql want to be their husbands.'
Saying which, a pleasant smile showed
Mr. Pike's sharp yellow teeth from ear
to ear. The man also grinned, and
smoothed his great whiskers.
"Why, we do transact a little busi-
ness in that way. The girls who come
up to London from the-country don't,
of course, know very much ;. but then
they're remarkably shy,; so we pacify
them with our parson here, and they
live very peaceable and easy with their
husbands afterwards. Yes, asyou say,,
ours is a fine institution."
"Well, friend, can I see this parson,?"
" No ; he don't manage' the business.
The concern is mine, and I make the
bargains."
As Mr. Judkins said this, he took
the candle out of the hole in the wall,
and, touching a spring, one of the doors
in the passage flew open.
"We.won't stand here in the draught.
Come into the church," said the mas-
ter of this house of mock-marriage._
As Pike- entered, he cast his. eyes
around the room, the original windows
of which appeared to have been blocked
up. The smoky flame of the dripping
candle -which his companion carried
in his hand enabled him faintly to dis-
tinguish objects. The brick floor was
sanded; two wooden forms stood in
the centre, while, .at the head of the
apartment, was a small desk made of
smoothly-planed boards, ,painted red.
A pillow, covered with ,a green cloth,
served for a cushion, and on it was
seen a clasped book, that might or
might not have, been a Bible.
N1 ow, then," said'Mr. Judkins, "I
usually make bargains in the church,
as the most fitting place." Relieving

I his hand of the candle by placing it on
the desk, he continued, " Who's to be
e married ?-yourself, eh ?"
n    " Not now--not I-no, no 1" said Mr.
Pike; "I'm rather too old for that, Mr.
e Judkips."
"Not at all-better late than never.
, Bless you ! we marry gentlemen here
t double your age. 'Tis very strange,
f but I remark the old ones are always
more eager after this sort of thing than
, the young."
"Well, the bridegroom, in the pre-
sent case, is a young man, and the
lady a few years younger than he."r
"Is-the gentleman wealthy,?" asked
Mr. Judkins; "we always square our
. charges with the circumstances of the
parties.  That's fair and just, I think
-oh yes, we are honest men here."
" I am sorry to say," observed Mr.
- Pike, shaking his head, " that the
young man is poor ; so you mast be
as moderate in your charge as possi-
ble."
" But the lady, perhaps, is rich ?"
"Poorer still-her father is in the
Fleet."
At this unwelcome intelligence, a
shadow came over the countenance of
Mr. Judkins; the huge head dropped
a little 'as if in thought, and the blood-
shot eyes half closed. " Bad--bad;
however, friend, we must- make the
best of it, and so I'll name my lowest
price-ten shillings for myself, five
shillings for the parson, and a half-
crown each for the witness and brides-
maid."°
" Which just make a. pound," ex-
claimed Mr, Pike, with a severe look.
"I must say your terms are rather
high."
"Can't take less," said Mr. Judkins.
" Higher than.I was led to expect."
"We never lower our price when
once named."
;'Higher than those of the Estab-
lished Church of England."
" Of course, because we are more
accommodating-can't say a shilling
less."'
"Hark'ee, my friend, I agree to your
terms, if you will oblige me in one
particular."
"What is that ?"-
" Canthe witness .and bridesmaid
appear like a gentleman and lady ?",
" Of course they can, if I lend-them
clothes."
" Thenlet them assume the dress and

HESTER SOMERSET.

air of foreigners, and speak broken En-
glish."
"What possible use can that be ?"
"I will send a coach for them," con-
tinued Mr. Pike; "they will drive to
the lady's house in the- character of
professional singers, and the bride-
groom being with them, they will suc-
ceed in getting the young lady quietly
off."
Mr. Judkins was remarkably quick
in diving-into the meaning of every-
thing which bore upon his peculiar
line of business; 'e therefore readily
comprehended the half-explained pro-
ject of Pike.
"Perhaps," said he, thoughtfully,
"I sha'n't be able to spare the SWit-
ness and bridesmaid: besides, there is
the dressing of them up-the clothes,
the mustaches, the gold chain, and the
female turban-oh ! I must have more
money for all this!"
"I can't give more than the pound,"
said Mr. Pike, firmly.
"Must have more money," urged
Judkins.
Mr. Pike walked about with his
hands in his pockets.   He himself
would be called on to pay the pound,
for Flemming, he knew, did not pos-
sess so. much- money in the world.
The thing was like drawing the blood
from his veins-; but a bright thought
now struck him: possibly,, on repre-
sentation, Mr. Hartley might be in-
clined to defray the expenses; yes, it
was but reasonable, he thought, that
the burden should fall on Hartley.
Without further murmurs, then, he re-
solved to meet the demands of Judkins.
" That's like a gentleman," said the
latter, as Mr. Pike consented to an
increase of the fee. "We always work
better when paid fairly-'tis human
nature, sir. I'll meet your wishes in
everything, and no doubt all will go
off smooth and comfortable."
"To-morrow, then," said the attor-
ney, "the coach shall be here. But
look you, suppose the girl is difficult to
manage, and should swoon or shriek."
"Oh, that's- nothing," observed Mr.
Judkins; "'tis generally the case with
our younger customers. Shrieks and
other noises are rather common in our
quarter ; the police, through custom,
seldom take- notice of them. Ah ! we
have gone through several rough jobs
in our house, sir; so I do not much fear

127

of performing your little business.in a
respectable and satisfactory manner."
A half sovereign being placed in the
broad palm of ~Mr. Judkins, to " bind
the bargain," that worthy, with his
flaring candle, preceded his visitor out
of the church. Mr. Pike followed at
his heels,.and the next minute, stealthi-
ly as a fox, glided through the half-
opened door of the notable house of
mock-marriage.

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE ICTIM.IS LURED INTO THE SNARE.
Sr. PAUL's bad just struck six, yet
it was already dark, for the month of
October' had begun-a period of the
year peculiarly cheerless in our great
metropolis.
A  hackney coach, -slowly passing;
down the Old -Bailey, entered Fleet-
lane, which contracted, thoroughfare
just admitted of its progress, the
wheels extending almost from curb-
stone to curbstone. The=vehicle rcon-
tained a man in foreign attire, having on
a thickly-braided frock-coat, a hat very
high in the pole, and wearing a massy
gilt, chain, while, his mustaches were
large and black as jet. By his side
sat a woman, finely but tawdrily-
dressed; yet her robe of staring col-
ors, huge turban, and sundry mosaic
and glass ornaments might be in keep.-
ing with the general costume of a thitd-
rate Italian cantatrice.
These-two persons were Signor and
Signora Ruboni: they called themselves
brother and sister, and the part they
had to perform had been fully explained
to them.
The coach stopped at the house where
Hester lodged, and the driver, knowing
his business, without any intimation
from the parties he carried, knocked at
the door. Presently, Flemming, made
his appearance. In, spite of his,:en-
deavors to be calm, there was something
hurried in his manner, and.a wildness
flashed in his eyes which singularly
contrasted with the quiet, cold self
possession of Signor and Signora Ru .
boni.
" Is the lady ready ?" asked the sig-
nor.
Flemming replied that she would be
with them in two or three minutes.

x"

10                                                                                                                                                                                          r  eY    l.r                                  !                   r                               w

.i ,
F'  2

,L


128

HE'S-TER SOMERSET.

t

"There is no time to lose," said the
signora, in good English; casting a sig-
nificant look at the hunchback.
But even at the last moment Hester
hesitated, for she dreaded appearing in-
public.  A timidity and a shrinking
now seized her, and it was with diffi-
culty that her trembling hands could
arrange her hair, or place on the last
article of her dress. Flemming knocked
at her door ; she would come instantly;
he retired, but again returned, saying
that the concert conmenced at half-past
seven, and they ought to be early at
their posts.  '
"Shall I abandon it?" said Hester
to herself. Then the thoughts of the
money, and the hope of making more
in furtherance of her great design, rose
in her mind, lent her energy, and set-
tled her determination.
"Signor and Signora Ruboni send
their compliments, and hope you will
not be much longer," said Flemming.
This was sufficient.. Hester left her
room, and, her music-book under her
arm, hurried down the;atairs. Flem-
ming, in silence, assisted her into the
coach, sprang in himself, and the
vehicle drove off.
They proceeded through Fleet-street
and the Strand. The heart of Hester
was ,too full to admit of her speaking
much, but she addressed a few words
to the female at her side in reference
to the approaching concert ; the signora
was one of the. singers, so Flemming
had, informed Hester, and,- residing
with her brother in the city, had kindly
agreed to take the two friends in the
coach hired for the occasion. Hester,-
however, was sorry to find that the lady
in the bright turban could speak no
language but Italian, which she herself
did not understand; all the signora
could do was to nod her head, and
make gestures with her gloved hands.
Though her features in the lamp-light
were only- faintly distinguished, she
appeared to be a remarkably coarse
.and vulgar woman.
The signor talked in broken English,
his voice sharp, and his manner abrupt.
But what struck Hester as being most
strange, was the complete taciturnity,
of Flemming; he sat in a corner of the
vehicle; =his- arms were folded, his
cheeks were deadly pale, while his eye-
brows were contracted until they met
each other.  His whole countenance

H ES TER SOMERSET.

expressed intense thought and inexpli-
cable sorrow.
Hester regarded him with feelings of
the liveliest interest and pity.
" You are very silent, Mr. Flemming.
Does anything perplex you connected
with the concert? I hope I have not,
by my little delay, caused 'the party
inconvenience."
Flemming returned no answer, but
Signor Ruboni did. Hester shrank
from this man with an instindtive feel-
ing of dislike. He might be an Italian
singer, she thought, but certainly one
of the lowest description; in spite of,
his gold chain and frogged coat, he re-,
sembled a brigand rather than a gentle
professor of Melody's divine art. - She
leant back, and remained silent for
several minutes ; but again glancing at-
the sad countenance of Flemming, she
could not resist addressing him.
"Nay, rouse yourself, and let us talk
of the parts we' have to go through. Of
course I feel anxious and uncertain as.
to my success, having never sung in
public before, Mr. Flemming, will you
not speak to me ?-are you ill?"
He heard her now, and started. The"
color rushed :to his faded cheek, and
light beamed in his eye. He stooped
forward, and seized her hand --
"Forgive me-forgive me! I am a
fiend, but when the storm is passed, the
sunshine will again smile. I am not so
black in soul as I may-appear. I will
protect you-I will devote myself to you
forever-Ionly ask you to forgive me."
Hester was astonished   at  these
strange in herent words, and almost
began to ink that Flemming's intel-
lect was disordered.  The unconcern
and apathy of the two Italians might
be attributable, she imagined, to their
slight acquaintance with the English
language. Flemming,bythe lamp-light,
perceived the expression of wonder
which her countenance betrayed.-
" Ahi I strangely forget myself," he
said, appearing to awake to a conscious-
ness .of his position. "I believe I was
half-dreaming, or thinking of a scene
in some play. Well, your songs-you
will get through them with applause.
How slowly the coach-moves ! We have
only reached Charing-cross."
The driver, however, had been flog-
ging his horses to a rapid pace. The
anxiety of Flemmingpand the fever of
his mind, might well cause -all motion
to appear -tardy. Hester glanced.

129

through the window, but she perceived
now that, instead of turning to the
right towards Regent-street, they were
proceeding down Whitehall to West-
minster.
"Mr. Flemming, the coachman has
misunderstood your order; he is taking
us in a wrong direction."     -
"-Oh, no, miss," said Signor Ruboni.
"The concert is to be held at the
Hanover-square Rooms, is it not?",
"Yes," said Flemming;- "but, dear
Hester--amiss Somerset-I, I had for-
gotten to tell you that we go to West-
minster first." He suddenly thrust
his- head out of the window, and de-
sired the coachman to drive faster ;
upon which the whip was heard to-play
around the horses' sides, and they
broke into a gallop.
" This is extraordinary," said Hester;
" why go to Westminster ?"
"e have agreed to take up a lady
there-a singer-to save her the coach-
hire)" said Flemming, shading his face;
"she lives in a street behind the ah-
bey."
"Yes, and when she gets in, I shall-
turn outside on the box," observed Sig-
nor Ruboni.
Hester appeared satisfied, and yet,
unsuspecting as her nature was, the
vulgar manners of the Italians, and
the singular demeanor of Flemming,
together with their- present route to a
district so far from Hanover-square,
raised feelings of surprise and mistrust
in her mind. Swiftly turning out of
Parliament-street, with the abbey on-
their left hand, and proceeding down
Great George-street, and along the west
side of St. Margaret's Churchyard, they
soon entered the region, where squalor,
idleness, and low iniquity begin.
" It is nearly seven o'clock," observ-
ed Flemming.
"We are in the Broadway," said
Signor Ruboni; "we sha'n't be long
now."
Few lamps were seen, except in the
immediate neighborhood of the gin-
palaces. All -shops of a respectable
appearance had vanished ; costermong-
ers, small grocers, dealers in marine
stores, and owners of coal-sheds, being
the chief tradesmen in the locality.-
Groups of people stood here and there
on the pavement, men leaning against
posts smoking, and women without
bonnets discussing domestic questions
before the spirit-shops. Now a fight

was got up, the crowd nearly blocking
the way ; and now the shrieks of fe-
males frenzied with drink, and tearing
each other's hair, rang in the ears.
The scene, although  Hester'caught
only a passing glimpse of it as the
coach hurried along, excited in. her
strong sensations of fear.
"I hope we shall soon pass out of
this dreadful neighborhood," she ob-
served to- Flemming. "Where does
the' lady who accompanies us to the,
concert live ?"
-"Not far off-we have nearly reach-
ed the house."
'-Oh ! surely she° cannot reside here.
Fleet-lane, where I lodge, though mean
and wretched, is quiet and retired-
this place is horrible."
The coach dashed down a narrow
turning on the left; the noise of the
more populous streets was left behind,
yet what the place gained in one re-
spect by the change, it lost in another.
The aspect of the houses herewas cheer-
less, dirty, anddesolate; a-few wretched
beings in rags moved to and fro, and
even the spot seemed forsaken by dogs
and cats, as though aware they could
find no food in that poverty-stricken
region.
The vehicle jolted over the rough
stones. It reached, at last, the myste-
rious little street already-described in
our pages; the street of thieves, and
their depots for stolen merchandise--
the street where was situated the silent
house of mock-marriages.
"Here we are, then," said Signor
Ruboni; " mam'selle will be anxiously
expecting us."
"How dark -it is!^ I do not see a
single lamp," observed Hester, trem-
bling now for the first time, and shrink-
ing into a corner.
"Oh, there are plenty of lamps,"
said the signor:,"only they have not
lit them yet."
"Mr. Flemming," cried Hester, turn-
ing quickly to the hunchback, " there
is something wrong-there is some-
thing in all this which I do not com-
prehend. Tell me the meaning of it,
I beseech you."
But Flemming seemed to have re-
lapsed into his former state of abstrac-
tion and'stupor.
"Mark Flemming-dear Mark," said
Hester,in a tone of entreaty, ''"speak to
me--I am in your hands-you-you
are my protector."

11

I

..  +i   ._ '4

.

.
.-h  g:
:a,.,
:,:


,                      , .         r                         _,       _,,,     ,                                                ",   .              ,"                          ,te  r                                  -.
""l' ;f c      . r            ,F1 ..i , t  -          _y'      ,i  '          n .    ,                      ,  "u',a5 %fi i-   {         , ,,.,                  w         .! r,,lt ,;x:        a                                                        1.
.                     +
,"Yt ,  y          t ,"i   .    r
.   °W1:..'    tx      l. ;lip  {  k      ;.Y   .1w   i                  .a r 4i .4+, Y.1 "s4 rol!            ~"rrr          "JV~   aa"  tl               ,'
1 I   lips

-                            -     I '  fi                     "                     -   f..                     ^; " 'S. F.r         ;  "       w      i                       + W "ti"-nt    « ' i,               i4' yT  i+      ~S: "'i
^' "'    -        _"a''.                    v'                    y'.  ky5.        , a r '15   d                          t" v        i"'  't"r let     _~n"~         ' '    ~, .^         ' '        ~
w                         , .   -                                -                            -                                        "  S    ,tom       .Jqq                  -                ".'r "      =';,       ::~ j' I     '      ';sy         ' ti
"                             . ,,                                                                                  J 1  ,,:  . ! .wr',5'  -                        i,       Ir.. t       "'L'Mkz ^"          .+..         .,'' Y"' "'L ~     +,       j.  ,
'                                            -         ,         ,                     s    ;  ;Li. ,}~nf,"',«:.:+'.  ,     " ;,  u ,t , ,F, ."           3.H  trF , ^ '        ,kiv1.'7

il3o

HESTER SOMERSET.

The features of Flemming could not the wall, and there was the side door
be seen in the darkness, but he w s standing ajar, and opening into the
heard to groan.                    room termed the." church." Present-
"'Tis all right," cried Ruboni; and ly heavy steps were heard in the dusk,
as he spoke the carriage stopped. The and the man with the ferocious bull-
:driver immediately let down the steps. dog head, Mr. Judkins, strode up to
-"I'll get out," said the counterfeit the group. He did not speak, but
Italian, " and fetch mam'selle."  immediately closed thd front door and
A grating bolt was now withdrawn, bolted it.
and a door cautiously opened. The    " Where is the sick lady ?" cried
heart.of Hester beat wildly.. She felt Hester, wildly gazing around; " why
her arm  grasped by Flemming, and are we shut in this dark house? Tell
her terror increased every moment, me-am I awake, or only in a frightful
she scarcely knew wherefore.       dream ?"
Signor Ruboni returned to the coach.  She saw the countenance of Judlpns
"I'm sorry to say mam'selle is taken as he held a candle in his hand. The
ill, and can't go with us to the concert. wild mass of red hair, the bloodshot
She wishes to-see-Miss Somerset."  eyes, the bloated cheeks, and the sav-
See me ?" exclaimed Hester ; "for age expression of the hideous mouth,
what reason? I do not know her."   gave him the appearance of an ogre, a
Why, miss, she is a singer, and satyr, or some monster of cruelty and
was - to sing at our concert, as ,you ugliness.
know," said the wily ruffian. "She's  "Save me !" cried Hester, clinging
too 11 toleave the house, but wants to to the arm of Flemming, and looking
give you some directions concerning imploringly into his face.
her part; she will not detain your a  "Save you from myself, you mean,"
minute."                          exclaimed Flemming, with bitter laugh-
"Shall I go ?" said Hester, ina half ter. " I am your worst enemy-your
reluctant and frightened manner to attendant demon. No, no, no ! I am
Flemming. "You must be my adviser, your worshipper--your devoted slave;
dear Mr. Flemming; and if the lady is and, Hester, dear Rester, you will now
indeed ill--"                      be mine forever!"
"Yes," said Flemming, abruptly ;  The whole horrible truth seemed at
"let us go into the house and see length to flash upon her understanding,
her-now, come." .              : yet no shriek broke from   her lips.
The hunchback handed Hester out der voice and the power of action ap-
of the coach, and she leant confidingly peered suddenly to betaen away, her
on his arm; the darkness prevented her grasp on Flemming's arm relaxed, her
from distinguishing the repulsive and eyes closed, her head swayed back-
miserable entrance of the ruinous wards, and she sank on the floor,
building. They passed within the lying there in her white dress like a
door, and reached the passage. There wreath ofsnow, or a beautiful alabaster
was the candle burning in the hole in statue cast down from its pedestal.

CHAPTER 1.

HESTER SOMERST Is IN THE PowER Or
* THE HUNCHBACK.
THEY carried Hester into the room
where the mock-marriages were per-
formed in the house at Westminster,
and there, by means of strong remedies,
they succeeded in restoring her to'-con-
sciousness. Opening her eyes, she found
herself on one of the wooden forms in
frontof the rude desk, and the group
had gathered around her, as if anxiously
awaiting her, recovery.  Conspicuous,
stood Mr. Judkins, a smile upon the
coarse mouth, that was half concealed
by the large red whiskers. The coun-
terfeit Italian singer had taken off his
mustaches, and the signora had doffed
her false hair and bright turban. A
little man, with a brushed-up foretop
onz a bullet head, and dressed in a dirty
white robe, held a book and a glass of
water in his hand. This individual
represented the parson-the kind qui-
eter of the consciences of country ladies,
and all those who were weak enough to
be enticed into a belief that a ceremony,
performed by him, would sanction their
runaway loves.
Hester did not seem to notice any of
these persons; her eyes were fixed on
Flemming, who'stood half bowed down
.by a sense of shame, and half exulting
in the prize he had won. But the first
shock of fear being past, Hester ex-
hibited a singular firmness: when
placed in situations of danger, real and
understood, woman sometimes will re-
tain her presence of mind, while man,
similarly circumstanced, will by no
means act the hero.-
"Mark Flemming, I address myself
to you; speak the truth ; falsehood will
no longer avail you, for I understand
all. Vile has the scheme been to lure
me to this horrible place, and you have
been the contriver of it-you have con-
nected yourself with these miserable
men."
"Pshaw !'' said Mr. Judkins, "we
t      are not miserable men."

"Ay, the deed rests with me!" ex-
claimed Flemming.-; "my excuse is-"
" Can such villanyfind an excuse?
And this is your protection--this is
your professed love !"
"Love!" cried Flemming, drawing
close to her ; "that tame word but ill
expresses what I feel. Mine is a wor-
ship,a wild adoration that would sacri-
fice - at its shrine - self-esteem, peace,
earthly hope, all things. I am like the
poor devotee of the-East, driven on by
his fervor, ready to commit all-excesses,
and to cast himself at length beneath
the crushing wheels of his Juggernaut."
-1 You would also sacrifice me?"
":No, no ; I have endeavored to dream
that you might be happy. I loved you;
I threw myself at your feet ; I was re-
j ected ; but I grant your refusal was
natural, and such as my mocking fel-
low-men would approve of.- But the
hunchback had a soul,though repulsive
the clay in which it was enshrined.
Despair goaded me on; I would possess
you, reckless of{the means by which I
accomplished my purpose. Hope whis-
pered, that when your spirit should
know my spirit, when habit should
have familiarized you. with all which
now appears hideous to your{ eyes,
esteem might be succeeded by interest,
and interest at last beget love?
The fire of passion in the eyes of the
speaker struggled with the softer light
of that deep melancholyfeeling habitual
to him. After a short'pause, during
which Judkins and his associates be-
trayed much impatience, Flemming
continued:
"Thus have I had recourse to strata-
gem, dark hellish deceit, convinced that
by no other means I could win you.
Pardon me, then; my, great love is-my
plea, the only excuse I have-to offer for
my sin, my cruelty, my madness. Con-
sent to be mine-link your lot toxiine-
place your happiness in my hands-I
swear to be all, ay, more to you than
man ever was to woman;before. Dear,
dear Hester, listen to my prayer !"
"Now, young lady," said Mr. Jud-
kins, advancing, "wethink quite enough

4

HESTER SOMERSET.

11

BOOK     III.


132

HESTER SOMERSET.

has been said; the young man can't
speak fairer, so -marry him quietly,
there's a good girl. Mr. Bumpus," he
added, addressing the parson, "you
had better, I think, go to the desk and
begin."
There was much that was ludicrous
in the scene, and yet the half-lighted
miserable appearance of the room, the
savage countenances of the men, and
the compulsory nature of an act which
might lead tothe ruin of one who, had
no one there to protect her, and who,
if she shrieked, might'shriek in vain-
these had something in them fearful
and horrible..
Stay ! your mummery is useless,"
cried Hester, springing up from  the
form on which they had placed her.
"You--are mistaken," said Mr. Jud-
kins;- "we have married hundreds of
ladies here, I assure you, some from
the country and some of the town.
'Tisquite right;:you will be man and
wife when you leave this place ;'tis my
duty to tell you so ; however," added
the, considerate gentleman, "if you
should like to do as they do at Gretna
Green, you can,'by and by, be married
again in the regularChurch of England,
just by way of satisfaction. -'Now, Mr.
Bumpus."
"False and wretched man !" cried
Hester, with desperate resolution; "free
will and mutual consent hallow the
union of those who fly to the North;
here fraud is used with force ; you
commit a. crime which the law will
severely punish."
The heavy eyes of Judkins grew in-
flamed, and he muttered an oath.
"You are rather impertinent, mfy
dear," he- said; "but there, never
mind;- we dogi't take much account of
words here;.we epcuse you; but don't
let us have a rough business of it, I
beg; -it will be wasting strength and
time to no purpose."
These coarse threats, which seemed
to imply more:than was expressed,
made the girl shudder;-her blood ran
cold- ;:all, color forsook her'face, and
she sank on the' form as if overcome,
but presently rose again on her feet.
Mr. Flemming hear me! II appeal
to -you,I address-myself to your better
nature, if there is anything generous,
left there. You perceive my situation;
that I am in your power, weak, - and
without help, relying -only on God and
my own innocence. Would you compel

me into marriage? Would you possess
me without a particle of my affection? I
have esteemed you, respected you, loved
you as a brother; shall I not now, if
you proceed to this length,despise and
abhor you? and will you not, by de-
stroying my hopes and peace, fix a
pang in your conscience, and impose a
burden on your own soul so long as you
live ? Think of this, pause, and trem-
ble f.
The beautiful girl stood a4 her full
height ; one arm was extended, her
eyes were raised to heaven, and her
disordered hair fell back over her shoul-
ders in a wavelike shining mass. Thete
was an energy, a wild majesty in her
manner, which seemed to awe even the
black and daring spirits around, for no
one spoke, and each gazed steadfastly
on her. Such is the influence virtue,
which is of heaven, willfsometimes ox-
ercise over crime, which is of hell.'
" But you will not, Mr. Flemming,"
continued Hester, relapsing into a tone.
of entreaty more natural to her wo-
manly nature-" you will not commit
this cruelty, this sin. Think of my,
father now in prison-what will be his
sufferings added to his present misery,
when he hears of this outrage on his
child ! Think of my mother, whose mind
sorrow -arid misfortune have wrecked,
and let her very madness plead on my -
behalf! Mark!Mark !" she cried,seizing
him by the arm, hanging on his clothes,
and looking up into his face in an agony
beyond any grief yet manifested by her,
"think, too, of' one now far distant,
whose story I have told you-to whom
the-heart of the child was given, and
my after vows have all been pledged-
if you love me, think of my love, my
despair, and have mercy. May a God
of justice and-of pity soften your soul!
May the darkness depart which now
shadows you, and the sunlightof honor
and goodness light again your noble
nature! Mr. Flemming !-dearMark !-
listen to my supplication-may I not
plead in vain-hear me--protect me-=
save me-have mercy-mercy!"
Gradually, as she held by his clothes,
she sank lower and lower, her face still
upturned to his, and her eyes now brim-
ming with tears ; and thus she knelt on
the floor before him. Flemming saw her
on her knees, but did not stoop or move.
Her fate might be said to quiver in -the
balance, and the ruler of her destiny
was that deformed being in whose.,

II

HESTER SOMERSET.

mind mieht have, been sown some of
the seeds of 'virtue, but thickly also
sprang up with the harvest the tares of
vice.,
CHAPTEI II.
THE FATE OF HESTER IS DECIDED.
THERE is no fiercer trial, no more
violent excitement to which the mind
can be subjected, than the contests of
antagonistic passions ;,ad of all other
emotions, perhaps, those raised by the,
struggle of the two reat principles of
od and evil, are the strongest. Mark
Flemming was an illustration -of, this
fact. We have seen him during his
connection' with Pike in a state of con-
stant and painful vacillation. .Like a
penddluni, he swung to that -side, and
stillreturned. Like Mohammed's coffin,
he wasphalf in the heaven of honor and
virtue, and half on the earth of crime.
The evil at length predominated ;-he
had been vanquished, and came hither
with his victim.
Now, at the eleventh hour, roused
by the appeal of Hester, and stung by
remorse, his resolves were shaken. The
angel of good had flown back again to
dispute the mastery of his heart-all'
his old struggle was renewed.
What passed within his breast might
- not have been divined 'by the expres-
sion of his countenance, for, in, the,
presence -of Judkins and his men, he
struggled hard tosuppress what fain
would have burst forth, 'and to assume
a tranquillity he was far from feeling.
He regarded Hester for several minutes
in profound silence; then, turning from
her, abruptly walked across the room,
'and back again.' Judkins stared, and
the little parson grew restless and-un-
easy ; probably the latter feared. after
all he might lose his expected fee.
"Come,. young man," said Mr. Jud-
kins, "we can't stop any longer; we've
heard all the speeches out now:.it's
quite time the affair was settled. Take
up your bride from the floor, and bring
her forward."     '
Flemming advanced tothe man, and
said, in a husky tone,
"Have you iron in your breast? Is
your blood ice ?"
Mr. Judkina broke into loud laugh-
ter.'7

138

"What! puling are you, my doughty
knight ?  Come, let us have no non-
sense. Surely you won't listen to the
little-speeches of a child like that?-we
are used to such things here-ohI yes,
tears, and sobs, and all those fine sen-
timental things-but.we never listen
to them; we know our duty, and act
up to it. Here, I'll carry the lass for-
ward, for I see you.need help. dMr.
Bumpus, go into, the desk, and begin.
Why, we shall be all night marrying
the young people, at this rate."
s-Mr. Judkins spoke, he laid: his
rough hand on7TIester, with the inten-
tion of dragging her to the front of'the
desk, in which the parson had stationed
himself. Suddenly Judkins was thrust
aside, and felt-a hand at his throat.
"1Forbear, ruffian! Add not the pol-
lution of thy touch to the other indiggi-
ties this lady has suffered."
Flemming, though small as well as
deformed, was possessed of extraordi-
nary vigor: the Herculean frame of
Judkins staggered, and, unprepared for
the sudden attack, he was borne against
a wooden form, over which, he stum-
bled, sinking on one knee. -He gained
his. legs again, muttering an oath; hut
the giant was tioo conscious of his own
superior strength'to take any vengeance
on the stripling.
"That was cleverly done, I must say;
Who would have thought those thin
fingers and spider legs of thine could
manage such a feat ! - Don't fear; I'm
not in a passion: we never give way to
anger here, for there's nothing got by
it. However, my man, what do you
mean?, I am your friend, and only
want to do you;a service."
"That service is no -longer needed,"
said Flemming, with compressed.lips.
"Not? Strange 1 Why, my parson
hasn't married you yet-of course you
need our services?"
Flemming turned ' towards Hester.
Though the struggled ceased-
though the demon was quelled-great
was the agitation he betrayed. Oh !
hard was it to surrender all which his
heart clung to--ifficult to renounce
that for the possession of which he had
bartered his peace. and his honor but
his- resolve was taken; and his life
thenceforth-mustbe; a .blank and a
darknessenlivened by one memory--
the recollection of an act of penitence
performed ere it was too -late. The
[uivering lip was stilled nw, the

. z                                                                                                                                                           _
P i                                                                                          1

1
+^rF' '" , -           r  +            -l.r'   i          \,1t                   '4    :,  ;  y^y4 , a         r      r  r   I r                                           ,
SAW. to                                       yj


184

HESTER SO MERSET 

choking of the threat subdued,- and
the eye assumed its wonted expression
of thoughtful sorrow.1
"Miss Somerset, to speak to you of
my repentance and remorse were idle;
idle also to asks you to forgive me-to
excuse my conduct on account. of my
hopeless and miserable love. Enough-r
that I have awaked to a sense of right ;
that I am- an altered man. I expect
not your pardon, then, and I ask not
your pity. You, are free. You shall
leave this place untainted, unmolested.
Heaven and the angel of your own
pure nature have been your guardians,
and ever, ever may they protect you!"
Hester was" unable to return -her
thanks in words, or express the deep
gushing joy which overpowered her.
Impelled'by the feelings uppermost
that moment in her heart, she- threw
herself into Flemming's arms, and the
repentantiman bentover her, feeling the
full satisfaction arising from the per-
formance of a virtuous deed-; and how
immeasurably'greater is the happiness
it gives than any wild, unholy bliss re-
sulting from the indulgence of crime!
Both remained silent; the low breath-
ings of Hester only being heard, while
scalding tears trickled down the cheeks
of Flemming.
As Judkins witnessed the scene, a
black scowl gathered on his brow; he
crossed his arms on his brawny chest,
and looked menacingly on their.
"This is all very well for you, my
friends, no doubt; but if you will be a
fool, Master Hunchback, I am'not. I
look to interests and the security of
my house. You don't leave us quite yet
-no, no; you're both in my power!"
What' mean you, villain ?" cried
Flemming; "would you offer us vio-
lence?".
As he spoke, he sprang: out into the
room, as - if preparing for' a defence ;
the next instant he caught;up a short.
iron bar which he saw lying onthe
floor.
"AhaI" 'exclaimedJudkins, "you're
arming yourself, are you? A very
good precaution; but, look you, Master
hunchback I can'do the same thing."
The man with the ferocious' bulldog
head dived his hand'into the pocket of
his=fustian coat, and brought to light
a large' horse-pistol;'he deliberately.
cocked it, and presented-it at the head
of Flemming.
"Take care,4tis loaded," said Juda

kins. "Now say, my lad, who has the
best of it?"
"Be- calm, Mt. Flemming !" cried
Hester, shivering with fear; " do what
ever he tells you."
"Fire, scoundreli!-I-reck not. What
is life now to me?",
'"Nay," said Judkins, "we don't do
these things here, unless driven to it.
I only want you to know what we can
do. Quietness and a fair living are
all we'ask. Well, you've altered your
mind, and won't marry the girl-good ;
I care nothing for that; I only demand
two things-secrecy and mhy money.
Swear, young man and woman, that
you won't inform against our house."
" If you will let us go," said Hester,
in her terror, "we will swear."
The required promise was given.
" However," continued Mr. Judkins,
"these oaths are just for form's sake,
and I accept them; but my best secur-
ity is the full certainty you must have
that, if you betray us, your lies won't
be worth a week's purchase."'
Hester, at this cool intimation Of
murder, shuddered,
"And now,",added Mr. Judkins, "for
the money. You must pay exactly the
same sum as if the marriage had been
performed;,for-we've had all the trou-
ble of it."
"What is your demand ?" asked
Flemming.
" I've received ten shillings 6n ac
count of the business--I want twenty
more ; this was the agreement.",
The money having been paid, Flem-
ming was permitted to conduct Hester
to the coach; he placed her inside, but
feeling now his own unworthiness, and
that the tie even of friendship must be
severed between them, he himself did
not accompany her. The, driver, who'
was to have proceeded a few miles into
the country, was not a little surprised at
receiving orders to return to Fleet-lane;
and there, in a brief time, Hester, with
a heart full of gratitude -to-'Heaven,
found herself in safety at her old lodg-
inge.

CHAPTER III.

THE HUNCHBACK AND IS MOTHEER-A
SCENE IN TH'FLEET'EISON. .
LEEMMING that night~ confessed the
guilty design he had entertained, and

*ESTER SOMERSET.

the issue of the affair, to his mother.
The blind woman, at first, bitterly con-
demned his conduct; but her heart be-
ing soon softened by his repentance,-
she could only mourn over the unfor-
tunate passion of her misguided child.
He quitted the house; whither he went
none knew, but days elapsed and no
tidings were heard of him.
"He is gone," said Mrs. Flemming
to Hester; "and I am alone in blind-
ness, alone amidst increasing infirmi-
ties and years. What do I live for but
my toy ? He is my all-my more than
life. Oh! let people call him deformed,
and regard him as a monster ; to me he
is passing beautiful. You know not
the mother's yearning to her offspring ;
how lovely to her the unloved and de-
spised can be, or you would pity me !"
She bent her head before Hester;,her
hair wat prematurely gray, not with
age=but sorrow ; her thin pallid face,
once beautiful, expressed anguish, yet
her sightless eyes shed no tears-their
fount was dry. Hester took her hand,
and endeavored to console her.
"I pity you, Mrs. Flemming; my
hert would be of stone if it did not,
indeed, bleed for you. I allow that
this man, this villain whom you call
Jones, by urging on your son, is.guilt-
ier than he. The description which
Mr. Flemming has given you of him
convinces me his name is not Jones--
he is a bitter enemy to my father. Oh!
when will this miserable being cease
to persecute us?"
"Promise me- again," said Mrs.
Flemnming ; "promise me that you will
take-no steps against my son, so as to
expose him to the penalties of the law.
AW! .girl, I will tell you," added the
blind woman, seizing the arm of Hes-
ter, while her face assumed an unac-
countable expression ; "you know not
who he is-what he is-my secret I
have kept for long years -shame,
shame has sealed my lips; but now,
to'render him service, and obtain for
him a pardon, the, truth shall be di-
vulged, at least to you. Bend nearer,-
child, for my voice fails me. Mark
Flemming"-she continued to speak
in low tones, an interval between each
word-" is your blood relative-he is
of the .famil- the ancient -family-of
Brookland hall P"
Hester started back, incredulity and
amazement depicted in her counte-
nance.

185

"Impossible! I have no sister, no
brother, no relation living except ir.
Hartley; and he and my father are the
last of their line."
" Believe me, or believe me not; I
can say no more. 'Pardon him     in
whose veins runs the blood of your
father's family."
"On account of your own lonely
situation, and your' own sorrows, I
grant all you require..- The past is
forgotten; your son shall receive no
injury through my means."
The blind woman thanked, blessed
her, and returned to her solitary room.
There she sat by the hearth, whisper-
ing the name of Mark; it was all the
happiness which she seemed to have.
Then taking his -violin fromthe wall,
she touched tremulously those strings
from which her son had been wont to
draw such sweet inspiring sounds; and
thus she would remain for hours, think-
ing, .sighing, but never weeping-the
mother with the broken heart.
"I must know all; nothing shall be
hidden from me !" cried Mr:'Somerset,
vehemently, as Hester disclosed to him
a few of the incidents which had re-
cently occurred. She softened the tale,
and endeavored to render her position
less fearful than in reality it had been ;
but the father saw through the little
artifice, and understood her motive.
Overcome by his importunities, and
yielding to his command, Hester con-
cealed the facts no longer. The first
impulse of Mr. Somerset was to thank
Heaven for the. preservation -of his
child ; and like the Oriental, who ne-
ver hesitates to kneel,, whether it be
in the street or the desert, to address
his God-in this far more devout than
the Christian of Europe-he dropped
on his knees on the stone'floor of the
room. --Fervently and audibly he offer-
ed up his thanks, and Hester, stooping
close beside 'hir, followed the words
he uttered in her own sweet angelic
whispers.
That was a scene rarely witnessed
within the walls of such a 'den 4as the
Fleet -rison. A few. yards off there
was uproarious mirth, and in the neigh-
boring rooms drinking' and rioting
went forward ; while across the yard,
or sounding from the lobbies, oaths
might have been heard, or shouts of
abuse from parties in fierce contention.
Ah! iruly might it have been said, here

9Y                                                                                4

t                                                                                                               ,                                                                         ..1

n                              rr   }'
i.w

' ---'

v_ 1:
[              { w
''   *+


H16 ESTE R SOMERSE T.

were breathing " airs of heaven," there so the sound of that sweet beloved voice
sweepisig " blasts of hell." Mr. S.ner- gradually softened and charmed away
set pressed hlis child to his heart; it the fiery passions of that injured man.
was for his sake, to obtain money for
him, that she had encountered the late
evils. He kissed her cheek, her fore-
head, her hair,; his soul yearned over CHAPTER IV-
her as an idol thing, dear and prized
beyond wealth, power, and even his       THE TURNKEY $ DAUGHTER.
liberty.
Invincible Nature ! holy and myste-  ONE of the* turnkeys of the Fleet
rious are the ties she weaves, from the Prison occupied two small rooms, ap-
insect to the brute, and from the brute parently sunk in the wall, not far from
up to man; and, shall the golden cord, the entrance ; the man Was called leu-
uniting intelligence to intelligence, ben ; but whether that was his Christ-
stop here ? Does not the link of love ian or his surname, none seemed ex-
bind the unclothed spirit to its fellow, actly to know, Reuben being his;only
burn through the cherubic ranks,.knit designation. He was about sixty years
seraph to seraph, ceasing only at the of . age, but a hearty, jovial-looking
throne of the Eternal ? for there, in one fellow ; his shoulders were broad, and
grand centre, all the divergent lines so was his face ; his cheeks were rosy,
and streams of love meet.          and his eyes were always glistening
Mr. Somerset's prayer was over ; the with good-humor; he had a word to-
dream of softness passed away, and say toevery one, of bluff courtesy and
earthly thoughts and feelings claimed kindness ; he was the universal peace-
their natural dominion over his mind. maker amidst brawls, and the general
With Hester he was -led to conclude soother of those in distress. Reuben
that the counterfeit literary man, who could do al but relieve the physical
had induced Flemming to commit the wants of the debtors, for, being only
outrage, was no other than Pike, while an under-turnkey, he had few of the
that miscreant was still the tool of pecuniary privileges; enjoyed, by some
Hartley.. "And what a base revenge !" of the other officials, and was conse-
thought Somerset; "what untiring dia- quently very poor.  ,.
bolical persecution 1" His anger was  So the old man lived in his little do-
excited far less against the misguided micile in the wall, happy in himself,
Flemming than the men who had thus and striving to diffuse resignation if
made him the blind agent of their par- not happiness around him. The larger
poses. room served for his general dwelling,
"And would they have sacrificed and the dormitory of himself and wife;
thee'?"  cried Somerset; "heartless a smaller apartment, with one little
knaves ! cold-blooded demons --sacri- window looking, out into the passage,
ficed thee, my innocent, my gentle, my was appropriated to his daughter.
pure one!  And must I, like a wild  Reuben was proud of this young wo-
beast in a cage, look out from my prison man; not on account of her personal
here,'without the power to succor thee ? attractions, but the qualities of her
-without the means of punishing those mind. She worked hard; but never
who do" thee. such grievous wrongs? complained; she was gentle and, corn-
Just Heaven I will retribution, never plaisant to every one, obeying her fa-
come? must villany triumph forever?" ther, and consulting his wishes in, the
The  grayheaded man lifted - his minutest particular, his word being her
clenched hands in impatience and des- law. Like Reuben, she bore one name,
peration ; his eyes were filledw!ith a say- and was known by no second. Her
age light; and his whole nature-yielded father called her July, but other peo-.
to the fierce'passions which his trying pie Julie; and no doubt the last name
situation was so well calculated to ex- was the correct one. Julie, then, had
cite. But Hester trembled; she would been brought up all her days within
not see himi thus.                 the. Fleet Prison: she knew or cared,
"Father, let us forgive our enemies ; little about the great world without ;
it is. nobler to forgive than to punish." the, prison was her world; and what
As the harp of the Hebrew boy chased passed withinthe circuit of the Fleet
the evil spirits from the Israelitish king, walls-the arrival of new debtors and

137

the departure of old ones ; the cares,  "Then, my good July, she resemble
the griefs, the changes, the hope, the you," said the smiling, ros old rman
despair, which agitated the breasts of stooping and kissing te agirl'
the divers inmates, with the constant head; "your natures agree,rand the
bustle and frequent noises of the place, feeling of that draws youto her"
seemed sufficient for her contemplation,  "No, no ; I wish I were like her
and to occupy her attention through father; yet, if you-were ini such trouble
the hours of her narrow existence,  as Mr. Somerset, I think I wouldtry
And yet there were times when, em- to be as dutiful as his daughter."
ployed in her humble tasks, Julie felt  "He is in trouble;" said Reuben-
a6 thirst for more knowledge than she shaking his head;' "and I-think his
possessed'; she longed to be able to; troubles, instead of wearing themselves
read and write; but some one told out as commonly they do, increase
her such notions were ambitious- and every day. There is some gentleman
wrong, and - therefore she endeavored' who-very often comes here, and fees
to stifle the vain aspirations.     the turnkeys well; but I always refuse.
Julie was four-and-twenty, but her his money, for I have a strangedislike
formi was so slim, her countenance so of him  he walks up and down before
fair, and its expression so ingenuously Mr. Somerset's room, looking, as one
simple, that she appeared to be no may say, like some evil spirit, or Cain,
more than seventeen. Hard labor had whom we read of in the Bible, after he
not rendered her coarse ; her features slaughtered his brother. Everynow
were delicately small, and yet they and then he stops and looks in -at the
were interesting rather than handsome. window, or through the half-open door;
Hereyes were of deep blue, and, with- then he laughs, but the laughter is a
out being sunny or mirthful,'expressed sort of mockery, horrid to -hear, and
cheerfulness and sweetness of disposi- makes -one's blood run cold. I think
tion. Her hands-and her feet were as him sometimes a devil sent to try and
diminutive as those of a Chinese beauty, torment the poor unhappy gentleman."
and her coarse cotton dress, with her  "I know whom you mean-they call
check apron could not' conceal the na- him Mr. Hartley. Don't let him enter
tual-grace of her slight rounded figure. the gate."
Such was Julie) the daughter of Reu-  "I've no power, child, to keep him
ben, the good'turnkeyof the Fleet.  out ; his money- makes all the other
"Have you' seen the young lady for turkeys his friends."
the morning, father ?"               Julie began to think, but presently
what younglady?"-asked the turn- returned to the subject of Hester. She
asked her father certain questions;and
"The tall, interesting,.beautiful one, begged him to 'speak to Miss Somerset
I mean-Miss Somerset."              on a matter which had long occupied
"Now, howyour-thoughts always run her mind.  What it was will very-
upon ier: If you were a nan; I should shortly appear.
think you were in love with her,"    One morning as Hester was entering.
added Reuben, his happy face rendered the passage of the prison, on heinsual
more brad by a waggish smile,      visit to her father, old Reuben stood
"And so I am iii love with her," re- full in the way, so that she was -ob
sponded Julie. "I don't know why, liged to stop. The turnkey respectfull
but I am   always thinkingof Miss touched'his hat:-
Somerset ' I watch for her entrance  -"Good-morning, Miss Somerset. I
every morning, and look at her'as' she beg pardon, miss, but I would=say one
passes; I mark everything she wears; word to'you."
I count the stepswhich she makes from  "I am always glad to speak with you,'
the gate to her father's room, and long Renben: I only wish you would)allon
to follow her as a companion-oh, no, me. to thankyou more than I do for
I mean .as.a servant' My heart warms your kind attention t m my-father"
towards her,-fateri not'because she is "Oh, no, Eb ain iot kind," said Ren-
so beautiful, not on account of her mild ben ; "however, I have ithe willto be
maniersand sweet silvery voice-". useful and, to do good, though I want
"*Why, then, foolish child ?" the power. Listen, Miss Swaerset. I
""Because  he is 'so attentive and have a message to you from a poor girl
kindioher father."                  -my daughter ; ishe is so timid that
10-

lL.UL
_         «.

.

F'E'S'T'ER SO M'ERSET.6,

186


188

OHESTER S OMERSET.

she can't speak for herself; and be-
sides, she being in a low station and
you a lady, perhaps you might b  of-
fended if she took the liberty to address
you. Of course I, in my office of turn-
key, speak to all--that's nothing."
"Now, Reuben, I thought you knew
me better. I suppose you mean Julie.
T haveroften seen her in your doorway
as I have passed; but you shall intro-
duce me to her. Show me at once to,
your rooms, and she herself shall tell
me what she wants."
The turnkey,-after a little hesitation,
complied with Hester's request, and in
a few seconds they reached the hole
in the wall. When they entered, Julie
was sitting on a stool, her hands in her
lap; she had evidently sent forth her
father to speak to Hester, and was
waiting an answer to her message. The
girl now rose in confusion, and blushed
deeply.
" I did not mean this, father; I-did
not wish the lady to trouble herself to
come here."
"But I proposed it," said Hester,
"and it is no trouble. ,I wish I could
do anything for Reuben, and you, too,
for Reuben's kindness to Mr..Somerset.
You have something, Julie, to ask of
me."
"You know my name, then" said-
the turnkey's daughter, looking up
more assured, and faintly smiling. "I
am glad ,of that. I did not suppose
you knew that a poor person.like my-
self lived in the prison."
" Then you see I take more notice
than you imagine. But tell me in what
I can please you."
Julie looked at her father, and looked
at the ground.. At length she spoke-
"have thought, Miss Somerset,
that T can be of some little service to
you, if you will permit me. You are a
lady, and, it-does nt seem right that
yeou should do what I hear you do-
darnMr. Somerset's clothes, mend his
linen, and .sometimes attend to his
rooms. Let these things be my task.
I am :accustomed to work which you
+annotbe."
"And how am I to pay you, Julie?
I would willingly be the means of af-
fording you a"little pocket-money:; but
all my endeavor is to save, not expend
money."_
Thegirl'aface became crimson, but
the next instant her eyes filled with
tears.

"Oh! it is not for this. Do not
think me so mean-so base. And yet,"
she added with energy, "I am presump-
tuous .enough to ask for something in
return. Will you bestow upon me, say a
half an hour a week? I never go out
of the prison, and no one here will
teach me. I am ignorant, and long to
learn. Will you, then, give me a few
lessons in reading and writing ?"
"Yes," said Reuben, seconding his
daughter's suit, " this is all the girl
has been thinking of for a long time
past. I can't read or write myself,
and am too poor to send her to school;
so you see how the matter stands."
" Reuben, say no more. I cannot
allow Julie to mend my father's linen'
or do other little things for him. The
task is a pleasure, a source of happi-
ness, which I cannot abandon to an-
other."
Julie, though she perfectly under-
stood Hester's feelings, betrayed in her
look deep disappointment, for she con-
*sidered her prayer refused.
"But this I will do" continued
Hester, after a pause. "I am already
under deep -obligations to Reuben;
therefore, most willingly, three times
a week, I will give you an hour's tui-
tion, and will attend you here. Let us
commence to-morrow."
"Gad bless you I" said Reuben, his
cheeks, eyes, and very forehead return-
ing in smiles his honest thanks. "This
is kind indeed. Julie now wilL have
her heart's content; and be a learned
lass after all."
The girl 'did, not speak, but drew
nearer, to Hester. Knowing nothing of
the conventional ways of the world, she
was influenced by a spontaneous feel-
ingi ofnature-a feeling which might
have prevailed in, the primitive ages of
the world. She stooped, raised a part
of Hester's dress, and fervently kissed
it; thus expressing at once the grati-
tude of her heart and the humility of
her mind.      -

CHAPTER V.

HESTER SOMERSET AND HER PUPIL IN THE
FLEET PRISON.
TnEY sat together, the teacher and
the pupil. The room was the turnkey's
common dwelling, being the Ihole in
the wall already alluded to. Reuben

HESTER SOMER-SET.

139

i
f
c
a
s
1
_z
r
i

engaged in his accustomed duties, we
walking about the prison, and his wi
was busy with her knitting in -a come
Hester found Julie an apt schola
and the progress which she made we
rapid. In truth, the girl's intellec
though it had never been develope
was of a high order. The' diffiden
andsquietude of her manner- were i
beautiful contrast with the prompt
tude andanimationwhich distinguishe
that of Hester. But a very few word
will suffice to point out the diserepanco
physical and mental, prevailing b
tween these two young women. Heste
was tall and commanding, inheriting
to a certain extent, the majestic depor
ment of her inothpr. Julie was littl
timid, and retiring, being formed rathe
to lean on than to be the support of an
other. Hester's features were -full o
life ; her large eyes beamed with fir
and -energy. The face of Julie had
still, pensive expression, which- ar
proached the sorrowful, and that fac
was not cast, like Hester's, in a fauli
less classic mould.- Their hair, how
ever, was precisely of a similar color
and the complexion of each was th
true English blonde.
The untaught mind of the turnkey'
daughter was like a patch of ground
f'or the first time receiving the beams o
the genial sun afteradark and protract
-ed winter. It imbibed with gratefu
delight the new ideas-called up by th
teaching of Hester.= The world of let
tears was to her an essentially new
world.  The notion of countless coun
tries besides. her own,.natural truths,
history - that dream  of the past
-seemed to, her as gorgeous as they
were novel, and her mind expanded,
throwing off the chain with which it
had so long been bound.
One day, as Hester continued her in-
structions, by an irresistible associa-
tion of ideasher thoughts were carried
back to the time when the peasant boy,
Ernest Banks, thirsting, also, for know-
ledge, came to her father, begging to
be placed in the village school. In fan-
cy, Hester- was again in the library at
-Brookland Hall, listening to the boy's
solicitatious.- ,.-She saw his cap iin his
hand, his coarse jacket, and hobnailed=
shoes; his manly front, great black
eyes, and beat ifully chiselled features
-all were before-her with the vivid-
ness of reality. Her mind was so ab-
~sorbed by the picture that she sat. ni-

r.

r    -                   ---   -- - - -- - -                '' '--  .amt--

I

as tionless for many minutes, appearing
fe to forget entirely the presence of Julie.
r. Her head bent forward; her hands
r, were clasped ; a smile overspread her
as face ; and yet tears, one by one, drop-
t, ped from the long lashes of her down-
d, cast eyes.
ce   Julie was surprised and troubled at
n -the singular absence of mind betrayed
i- by her teacher. She would not; how-
d ever, disturb herb reverie, but-sat oppo-
Is site to her, silently looking into'her
y, face, and she seemed fascinated by the
e- contemplation.- Like the nup, who-
3r while gazing at-the pictured lineaments
g, of the divine Cecilia, grew breathless
t- with delight and adoration, so Julie ex-
e, perienced a strange pleasure approach-
r ing to a species of worship. She re-
1- garded Hester as a superior being, and'
)f in her humility, believed herself born
e only reverently to love and to serve her,
a Hester at length recollected herself, and
- observed her pupil sitting near her, the
e book she had been studying having
t- fallen on the floor.
r-   "Go on, Julie; you have not yet fin-
r, ished your lesson. But I think we are
e both idly inclined to-day. Well, put
by the lessons, and let us have a little
s conversation; You are not so old as I
d am, Julie, I think ?"
f   "Perhaps I am."   And she named
her age.
l - " Ah ! then you- are about a year
e older. And you have lived in the pri-
- son all your life ?"
- "Yes-; that is, so long as I 'can re-
- member ; though my father says I was
not born here."
" Have you ever been out of London,
and seen the-green fields ?"
"Never-stay.    I was once, many
years ago, on father's birthday 's far
as Hampstead. I can only i llect -
the scene as being most beautiful; the
heath so wide, and the hills so. far
away, as much in the sky as upon the
earth ; then London, with so: many
towers, and huge St. Paul's above all
the others, spread-out at our feet cover-
ed with smoke, but it was- so still"that
not a sound travelled to us; and Icould
scarcely believe that down yonder all
the bustle of life, the whirl;of coaches,
and the shouts of the people, were still
going forward. Ah t that was a strik-
ing scene--a rich, verdant prospect;
for there were clumps of trees, too, close
by-trees as tall, Issuppose, as St. Dun-
stan's tower 'in Fleet-street. I wonder

J4"t

a
t y
t    i,
4
I N
F
i'


140

HESTER SOMERSE T.

4C

if there is another scene so fine as
Uainpstead in England ?"
Hester smiled, at the simplicity of
her pupil, and patted her on her cheek.
"There are scenes nearly as fine, I1
dare say,in, a few other places ; and I
hope, one day,yeu will see them, Julie."
Hester looked at the girl, earnestly
for some time without speaking, and
there was something unusual and pierc-
ing in her scrutiny.     I,
"Julie," she said at length, "it may
be onlya fancy o°:mine, but your voice
remind me forcibly of one who is very
dear-to me."
JThe interest of the turnkey's daugh-
ter was excited.
" Your words give me great pleasure.
I am glad that I resemble in any slight
thing those you love."
"The dear person I mean is my mo-
ther."
Alas! poor lady !" said Julie; "my
father his told me where she is."
"Yes, she is still in the asylum," ob-
served Hester, with a deep sigh. " But
another word, Julie. More than one
person here has told me that there is a
likeness between yourself and me."
The poor child of seclusion and low-
ly birth, who was 'fully conscious that
she was not handsome, while Hester
appeared,,in her eyes, the type of all
perfection, sprang up and laughed.-
Unbelief°was; expressed in her laugh-
ter, yet joy:too.. That she resembled
the beautiful lady before her seemed a
thing utterly impossible;. yet,:even for
a distantand faint shadow of Hester's
loveliness to be-reflected on her filled
her -heart with pleasurable emotions.
"Ilike you, -Miss Somerset ?-no, no.
How could such a notionenter people's
head     I have seen in print-shops
draw   s of the graceful rich-colored
tulip, though I never beheld a real one,
and of the hedge-side primrose. They
are bothflowers, but oh! the difference
between one and the. other 1-such are
we !"
"I can:tell you, then, the primrose
is the worthierflower of the two. If
the tulip7have some-advantages in form
and color;, the-sister flower has a sweet
perfume, that renders her the most wel-
come amongall the flowers of spring."
Pleasure shone in the glistening eyes,
of her whose heart was all humility;
and Julie, in the ardor of the moment,1
would have.-embraced Hester, but the
consciousness of her position, little ret

HESTER SOMERSET.

141

moved from that of a menial servant,
held her back.  She knelt, however,
and kissed again her companion's dress,
and even ventured to press:her hand to
her lips. Hester looked at her thought.
fully, and seemed to watch her emo-
tions with deep interest.
" Julie," she said, smich moved by
the betrayal of her artless affection, "I
feel an interest in you which I cannot
account for. This distance must not
exist, between us ; if your father is
poorrmine is eqiually.so."
"But he is a gentleman, and you
were born a lady. I am nothing."
"Speak not in this way. In spite of
external circumstances, is not your soul
as good and as worthy as mine ?"
"No, not so exalted--not so good."
"Our spirits are attracted to each
other, Julie; our sympathies are the
same ; there is a bond between us-the
holy bond of Nature: then let there be
no reserve, no cold and. humble dis.,
tance shown by you.    We must be
friends, and thus I would embrace you."
Hester drew the girl towards her in
a fond, endearing manner; but the lat.
ter, though trembling with delight,
still considered the act too great a con,
descension on the part of her compan-
ion. She shrank, and would remain
on her'knees; called Hester her mis-
tress, whom she would serve solong as
her life'endured; and _as her face -was
uplifted, it -was covered with tears-
that pale face thus resembling the low-"
ly flower before named, the sweet, co-,
lorless primrose, when bathed in the
sparkling dews of morning.
CHAPTER VI.,
HESTER SOMERSET HAS TURNED SCHOOL-
MISTRESS--A SCENE AT DOCTORS' COM-
MONS.
Bur Hester must not remain inac-
tive. The daughter of the imprisoned
man has a great task before her,.little
of which she has-yet performed. Natu,
rally hopeful and energetic- was that
young fragile being,,and not one to be.
crushed or overcome by past disap-
pointments.  The nmouse performing
what- the lion could not; dripping
water wearing the stone ;A the tiny
coral insect building, with its;fellows,
the broad islands-all offered her les-
sons,inculcated perseverance, nd bade

'4
f3y N
.aka
s,  1

I

U                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Fn                                                                                                                                                                                    .

r
1
1

..     .  V,
_k  ,
.,     -

'her heart never despair. Before her, in foggy atmosphere, 'encompassing;the
the night of coming years, there shone district exercises an influence favora-
a star. It burned brightly on the -eye ble, to the command, "increase and
of fancy-it was the star of her father's multiply ;" and the philosophy 'of
freedom-a freedom to be won by her Malthus, with his population-restrict-
own exertions.                     ing laws, seems here especially to be
Anxious to elude the persecutions of held in scorn.
Pike and Hartley, Hester abandoned   Hester's gentle, manners and pleas-
her lodgings in Fleet-lane:; and she ing appearance went far in her favor.
hoped to succeed in keeping her next The people in the neighborhood of this
residence a profound secret from them ; ancient seat of law,- though of hum-
for the solitary, unprotected girl found ble. pretensions, are not generally
she was no match for the wily attor- needy; many, therefore, in a brief
ney of St. Mary-Axe. Still she re- time, sent their children to the young
solved to be near her father, or to lady's.school, and Hester soon hadthe
live at least within ten minutes' walk satisfaction of seeing around her an'
of the Fleet Prison. Accordingly we increasing and 'promising establish-
find her located in a little square in ment. Arduous may be- the duties,
the vicinity of Doctors' Commons. and frequently trying the position- of
The building called Wardrobe-place, those who teach- the young; but toil
though.surrounded by a multitude of was a delight to the indefatigable
small.-labyrinthine streets, is in it- daughter of Somei-set, when it pro
self singularly retired. It boasts four mised to lead to the desired end.
stunted lime-trees, an extreme luxury  It is morning; the woman of the
in this close and dusty region'; and a house prepares Hester's breakfast;
lamp stands at each extremity of the and, that finished,,fresh and happy
place.                             she hurries to the school-room on the
And what did Hester here ?    So ground floor, to make ready for the
much pleasure had she taken, and still arrival of the children.  Meantime,
experienced, in the tuition of Julie, Julie comes from the 'prison to help
that, by a natural linking of ideas, she her in her morning's task, for this the
conceived the notion of extending that turnkey's daughter insists on doing;
pleasure, and converting it into -a the latter removes the forms. and
source of profit. She would open a chairs, and, a broom in her little hand,
school-a day-school for an unlimited "sweeps the- room."  In defiance. of
number of children. If success should Hester's wishes, Julie is still the serve
attend the undertaking, an income ant, and will hear of nothing else.
might be the result beyond anything At nine o'clock flock in the children,
her hopes had yet anticipated ; and and then : commence the buzz, the
then what a march, she reasoned, stamping of small feet, and all the
might be made towards the goal of her nameless disagreeables of a prepara,
great design !                     tory school. . A -continuance ofthis,
The plan had scarcely been con- hour after hour, might well weak the
ceived,,before Hester, ever prompt and refined and gentle spirit of the tea e r
decisive, was prepared to carry it out. but- Hester is never wearied; one
We see her now in her pretty attire, thought supports her, one idea sheds
always genteel, though never showy, light ,and- glory over .her apparently
tripping through the streets in and irksome occupation, and her heart
around Doctors' Commons. Her reti- overflows with happiness.
cule hangs on her arm, and its pink  At five, the duties terminate for the
recesses contain. her circulars, setting day, and then  she "hastens to, her
forth her address, the nature of the father in the Fleet. There she talks
intended tuition, terms, and- other to him, cheers his lonely hours by her
necessary items. These she leaves at anecdotes, or reads aloud some .amus-
divers houses where families reside. ing book; and thus the ruined man,
The locality, with the exception of the amidst - his misfortunes, experiences
law-offices, is low, and apparently colo- consolation.
nixed by a vulgar class of people; yet - Spirit of social intercourse! -Spirit
it is remarkablyabundant in children; of love I there is no phase, however
they are seen in every corner, every barren and dark, in this our -changeful
alley, and almost every doorway. The existence, but ye have the power to


HESTER S
brighten. Ye can'render poverty en-
durable;- ye can remove the crushing
load from the shoulders of crippled
misery; ye can call up smiles of peace
and resignation on the hollow cheek of
wan disease ;in the chamber of death
ye are still angels, filling the dying
with hope, and pointing to a reunion
whose duration shall be eternity.

CHAPTER VII.

HARTLEY VIsITS MRS. SOMERSET Ar BETH-
LEHEM HOSPITAL.
Ma, SOMERSET, .two or, three times,
had purchased   a "liberty ticket."
This term may be explained, by stating
that for a :certain sum, usually four
shillings, the warden of, the prison
granted leave to prisoners to be absent
for the space .of a day, good, security
that they should return to their quar-
ters having been previously given.
Such a practice, as may be supposed,
was a source of great emolument to the
wardens, so that we find them making
many hundreds 'a year by it. The
system, as regard debtors' prisons, in
the present day is entirely abolished.
Mr. Somerset obtained his " liberty
tickets" for the purpose of- accom-
panying Hester to Bethlehem Hospital,
for, however painful to.-him might be
the sight sof his unhappy wife, he felt
it his duty to see her, and to watch the
progress of her distressing mental dis-
ease. On no occasion had Isabella yet
recognized her husband. It is fre-
quently the case with the insane, that-
the 'whom they once loved -the most
dev  dly, they regard with total apa-
thy or dislike. The' fixed eye, or the
meaningless stare, the waving of the
hand at some=imaginary object, still
marked her..demeanor; and she con-
tinued, in every respect, much in the
same, state as when we described her
in a previous portion of oar history.
But we do not intend now to accom-
pany the husband on one of his visits:
we must direct our attention to another
person-.
A man with a moody and contem-
plative aspect presented himself one
morning atthe iron gates of the asy-
lum.. He had obtained the usual order
of admission from one of the governors,_
for he represented thata relative was

OMERSET.
'confined within the walls. Crossing
the gravelled. walk, he slowly mounted
the steps of'the beautiful Ionic portico.
He did not raise his eyes to admire the
grace and majesty of that entrance,
but, within the hall, he stood several
minutes before Cibber's statues of
Raving and Melancholy Madness. , An
expression of strange pleasure flitted
across his saturAine countenance, as
though he experienced a morbid grati-
fication in gazing on that embodiment
of human frailty breathing in the
marble.
This was the first time Hartley had
visited Bethlehem Hospital. He had
long resisted the desire of going thither;
but the wish of seeing the woman he
had loved, and still loved even in her
melancholy condition, grew so strong
upon him, that he could .combat with
his inclination no longer."
The spirit of Hartley was never so
scornful and, gloomy as when he wit-
nessed' happiness in his fellow-crea-
-tures. It seemed to him that the joy
manifested by them was either hypo-
crisy or an infallible s ign of mental
weakness. He looked upon all men as
moths whirling around the glare of a
lamp-as being sporting about the edge
of a grave. Such a mind, as a natural
consequence, was coldly indifferent to
the spectacle of suffering and misery.
Sorrow, discontent, and gloom accord-
ed with the nature.of his own internal
world. Man, he considered, was not
born to laugh, but _to think and mourn.
To the eye of that despondent muser
the heavens wore a pall of blackness ;
the sunbeams, the flowers, and the
gushing streams, were not types of,
beauty, the reflected snile of the Be-
neficent One ; they possessed no spell
to soften his sdul or charm his sense.
In a word Hattley's philosophy was
steeped in darkness, and the very at-
mosphere he breathed seemed charged
with misery.
And yet there were moments when
he experienced a sort of pleasure, or
he had not- otherwise belonged to the
human family. That pleasure- sprang
from the recollection of his passion for
Isabella, and from the indulgence of it
still in his waking dreams. Another
and more debased source of gratification
was the conviction that his envied and
hated brother, like .Job of old, suf-
fered now as much as he once enjoyed ;
and that the revenge pursued through

HESTER SOMERSET.

143

a
'r
a
e
i
9

ti

long and. weary years was working gether with a handsome fee slipped
towards its consummation.,          into the "hand' of the'woman, greatly
Hartley was informed that, he could conciliated her, and seeired lier good
not see Mrs. Somerset for a short offices. When the door was opened,
time ; and to while away the hour, he Hartley followed the nurse, but not-
passed down some of the galleries withstanding his usual collectedness of
which extend the whole length of the mind, a slight tremor affected him.
building, opening into rooms and cells. Something unearthly, connected with
In the basement-story, his ear was ap- the presence of Isabella, seemed to be
palled by the howl of the violent, and in that room., There was the wreck of
yet he experienced a singular pleasure beauty, the grave of soul; for was not
in watching the gestures of those whose the body the tomb of the intellect
intellect had been reduced below thatof which had perished and dropped into
the -brutes. The spectacle to him was its dread repose before its time ?
a fine psychological study.           He turned his face away from the
"And all this," said Hartley to insane woman, for he could not imme=
himself, "proceeds from  some slight diately summon resolution to look at
injury to the brain; some disarrange- her. The morning sun was shining
ment of the fibres of that delicate organ. faintly through-the narrow window,
What men call the soul acts through and the shadow of his tall, motionless
it--cannot act without it ; and yet the figure was thrown on the opposite wall.
organ' itself is common matter, while In the deep stillness the birds, were
the soul is immaterial, an emanation heard singing among the garden trees
from the Deity. Oh wondrous, incom- in front of the asylum. - Alas ! a sad
prehensible  connection! Mysterious contrast, their free,- happy jubilee to
Giver of Life ! wilt thou never solve the dark scene of human blight and
the problem to man ?"               ruin within that pileT!
'The quiet suffering, the pathos of  "Now, sir, this is Mrs. Somerset,"
sore'ow, evinced by those whose insanity said the nurse,who found it necessary
was ,of a gentle description, awoke a to draw the visitor's attention' to her
different train of thought in the mind charge.
of the curious'speculator. The author,  Hartley slowly turned, for he longed,
whom we introduced on a previous oc- yet dreaded to behold her. She was
casion, was still there, though removed stooping forward in her chair, her thin
to another cell-one of a class appro- colorless hands resting on her knees.
printed to those whose cases are im- She was dressed in a robe of light gray
proving. Still he talked of his works, stuff, which set closely around her
his neglected performances, and be- throat ; her abundant black hair was
wailed the obscurity to which his name braided tastefully (for she was indulged
was doomed ; and still he mourned that in this little vanity), and a flower---it
over him would rise no column of re- was a natural one, a, mass-rose-droop
nown.                               ed from the side of her head. Her
Hartley heard the calculations of finely-chiselled features were perfectly
the ruined merchant over imaginary still; insanity had not' stamped its
heaps .of gold ;  and  the  lovesick signet there ; -its wild, wandering fires
maiden's sigh breathed in his ear ; but only burned in the eye.
he walked along with crossed arms, his  Beautiful she looked; for years, as
lips being compressed, and his large. if hi consequence-of the inaction'of
bushy brows concealing his eyes. It mind, seemed to have suspended their
was not pity that he felt for his stricken usual work on the frame. Yet it was
brothers of mortality; they were all, the beauty of a marble  statue: the
all ir their ideal sorrows, their ideal carved lip moved not, the damask
transports, .more blest than himself. cheek smiled not, in the dimple-of the.
He felt that truth-he knew it; and, small chin love ambushed not--all was
in ihis wayward creed, imagined that cold, withoutfeeling, and withoutmean-
insanity, under many circumstances, is ing. Oh ! ethereal fire of vivifying
an enviable condition.             soulI thine attributes extinct, what is
Hartley was conducted to the room the most perfect mould of human love-
of Isabella by one of the nurses.~ His lioness ? A corpse under the power of
subdued demeanor, and apparent sym- the galvanized's art, mimicking life.
pathy with the scene around him, to- "'She is not mine now," 'thought


S

144

HESTER. SOMERSET.

Hartley, "and she is not his. . Well,
better as it is. I would behold her
thus, far rather than know her bestow
the endearments of her love on my ab-
horred brother."
He moved nearer, curiously contem-
plating her. His eyes were fixed on
the downbent features of the unhappy
woman. He admired. Thee passion of,
long years was not yet subdued ; still
lie loved. 1lIe may touch her hand
yow; hernay raise it to his lips. "She
will not," thought Hartley, " recognize
orrepulse me how."
The thia fngers were clasped in his
own, and Isabella did not move. He
kissed that hand again and again. At
length, roused by the action of Hartley,
she turned in her chair.;
"Who is this'? I do not know you.
Are you the surgeon ? I am not ill.
Leave te room, sir."
"It is not thesurgeon, dear madam,"
said the nurse, "but a kind friend come
to see you."r
"A friend? I have no friend-yes,
Hester, "lugh--no,, no, they are my
enemies.
"Dearest Isabella, you have no ene-
juies," said Hartley.
Mrs. Somerset uttered an exclama-
tion, and started from her seat. Will
the ear of madness revive in the .shat-
tered soul 'the recollection of sounds,
when the eye fails to remember fea-_
tures ? However this be, extraordinary
was the effect produced on Mrs. Somer-
set by the voice of Hartley. She. moved
Mack several paces; her limbs trem-
bled,; and her eyes, gradually concen-N
Creating the vague light they possessed,
were fipd wildly upon ;im.
"Who speaks ?".she cried. "That
yoice ! Iknow him now; it is he-the
fiend .,that I have been beseeching to
leave me these three years, and he is
come at last in. bodily shape. Demon,
avaunt !-ruier of my husband!cease
to torture me 1"
The poor lady, usually so tranquil,
was now in 4 fit of frantic violence,
such as the nurse -never beheld her
yield to before. She tore her hair,
stamped, waved her hands in agony
above heriead, while her shrieks were
appaing. The nurse endeavored to
soothe her to no purpose; and not until
Hartley had quitted the room did that
storm  of excited feeling abate. But
the object of her indignation being re-
ruoved, sorrow and lamentation sue-

ceeded; and in a short time she again
took her place in her chair. Gradually
her features resurned their wonted com-
posure; her hands again rested on her
knees, and her expressionless eyes were
fixed on vacancy.
Alas! poor heart ! desolate broken
spirit ! might it not have been a mercy
if that torn flower in thy hair-breathed
its fragrance on the turf which should
cover from human eyes thy woes and
thee ?
CHAPTER VIII.
HARTLEY RECEIVES AN UNEXPECTED VISIT
AT HIS CHAMBERS IN THE TEMPLE.
hARTLEY, returning from Bethlehem
Hospital, found in the scene which he
had just witpessed much matter for
profound thought. When he reached
his, chambers in the Temple, he threw
himself into a seat, and remained for a
long time wrapped in deep meditation.
To dissipate the gloomy images which
so thickly crowded upon him, he had
recourse to his favorite philosophers;
but not long had his book been open
before him, when he heard steps on the
stairs, They appeared to be those of a
person who mounted with difficulty,
for the ascent was slow, and often in-
terrupted, while a short distressing
coughs was frequently heard.
"This way, ma'.am, if you please ;
here is the door,"'said some one with-
out, whose sharp, voice was evidently
that of a child. The next instant a low
tapping was heard.
" Come in," said Hartley, carelessly.
The doer opened,-and a woman,
stricken with blindness, being led by a
little girl, advanced into the room. It
was Mrs. Flemming.
"Mr. Hartley lives here ?" she said,
in a. low tremulous tone.
"My name ,is Hartley," answered
the Terplar, marvelling much what
business the. woman could have with,
him, for he had not the .slightest re-
collection of her person.
~9" That will do,my dear," said Mrs.
Flenming to her little guide; "leave
the room, and shut the door after you;
when I want you again, I will call."
The blind woian stood still, her
hands crossed on her, breast, and her,
face turned towards the spot where she
believed Hartley- sat. There. was a

HESTER S
firmness, a quiet dignity in her look,
which the countenance of Mrs. Flem-
ming never expressed before,. She
uttered no word, still standing there,
like one whom some sudden spell had
turned to stone. The surprise of Hart-
ley increased.
"Oh ! that I .could see thee I" she
said, at length ; " worlds would I give
only to see thee for a moment !"
"Who are you, woman? I know you
not."
" Roland Hartley ! have time, and
sorrow, then, worked sqch change upon
me, that even each mark of humanity,
all likeness of what I was, is oblite-
rated?"
Hartley gazed searchingly on her.
"Woe has wrinkled my forehead,
and turned my hair gray before the
natural course of time-the tears of
long, long years have made me blind,
and now they have ceased to flow-I
am
"Impossible !" cried Hartley, rising
suddenly from  his chair;- "I do not
see-"-."
"Yes, you see her-her you wronged,
ruined, deserted in her youth-her
who, too proud to accept alms from
him who refused to fulfil his vows, fled
with her child. I am Flora Arundel !"
"Flora Arundel ?" repeated Hartley.
- "I hid my shame from the knowledge
of all, and, under another name, toiled
for my own living and the .support of
my child. I knew where to find you,
but never revealed myself,,never sought
you; and I would have died unknown,
but--"
The callous-hearted man for a moment
appeared moved. The flame in the
lamp of Nature and feeling, though
nearly out, rose for an instant. He
took his victim by the hand :-
" You did wrong, Flora; I would
have rendered you .assistance; you
shall have money now."
" No, no; your gold I despise; I
have not struggled with poverty for
twenty years to receive alms at last.
One, motive only brings me here. I
am wrapped up in my child, my loved,
my talented son ; they called him a
hunchback, but to me he was all beauty
and perfection. I have lost him now
-he has left me forever."
She bent her head, and mechanically
raised her hands to cover her eyes.
- .~"Be composed Flora," said Hartley,.
" He is your child, Roland."

0ME-RS-E T.

145

"Mine !" be repeated, sullenly--
" yes, yes, let that pass."
"The, hunchback is your child,"
said the mother, in a louder tone.
"Well, I admit it."
" To whom, then, should" I come in
my bereavement, my distress, but unto
the .father ?-I-Roland ! Roland ! pity
me-assist me 1"
The scene was becoming, annoying
to Hartley, for he hated to have his
sympathies appedied to, or his peace
disturbed. The first natural surprise,
and the first touch of feeling being
past, his hardness aind apathy returned.
"Now we will not multiply words,
Flora. Tell me at once-what you want."
"Oh ! Father in heaven 1" cried the
blind woman ; "Thou who hast afflicted
thy poor sinful servant with the heavy
course of bodily darkness, hear him who
should have been- my protector, my
husband, ask-what do I want ?"
" This is mere raving, woman. Talk
reasonably. The lad, you say, is a
hunchback; what name have you given
him ?"
" The name ,I had assumed-Flem-
ming, Mark Flemming."
The Templar started; paleness over-
spread his cheek, but he speedily re-
covered himself.
"Strange-singular   coincidence,"
he muttered. " Flora, this is the young
man who formed a-a design to carry
off Miss Somerset."
" Yes, lbut he repented, of his evil
conduct. Roland, you and some other
person were his abettors in that un-
happy affair ; I am  confident of it.
But now that you know Mark Flem-
ming is your own son, save him-find
him-restore him to me-1"
A smile passedover the frigidfeaturbe
of Hartley. The interestatfirst excited
in his breast had entirely ceased.
"Hear me ! this is why I seek you
Mark knows you to ,be,.his' father., I
discovered to him the secret before he -
left me, and the intelligence seemed to
overwhelm him. Roland, assist me in
ascertaining where he has led. YJa
have sight, you have strength and
energy-oh!ChowI need them all nowI"
" Advertise in the papers," said
Hartley, turning away, and walking to
the window.
" That will be useless.. If he should
see the advertisement, he will-not heed
it. I must find him-I will draw him
home by force-I must, I will have my

'                              _

, ~                                              F,.

a
8
3
a
4
v
L
Yy
b
CA
F}
5


146

HESTER SOMERSET.

son," sihe continued, raising her voi fe.
" Is he not all to me ?-more than
riches, and even good fame in this
world? Oh ! villany, cruelty shall not
deprive me of my child. Haste, then:
let us fly to him before madness be his
portion, or death overtake him. Igrow
frantic without: him; every moment
lost seems an age of agony, and wrings
a drop of blood from my heart. Roland !
come-Roland Hartley! I say, let us
search for our child '"
" Flora, this is folly. To tell you
the truth, I cannot mix myself up with
this affair. If the $d has left you, and
refuses to return, I cannot help it ; and
aif you are resolved on finding him, you
must seek him yourself, for I shall take'
no steps in the matter. Understand-
this distinctly. Now, you had better
leave my office."
The'calm cold words of Hartley were
as -swords piercing the heart of the
bereaved mother. Oh! the bitter pang
that wrings the soul when, in our
wretchedness,,we seek for support and
sympathy, and find none ! The heart
recoils upon itself, and our loneliness
is doubly lonely. The- blind woman
hung upon the arm of him who had
betrayed her in younger, years. She
called upon him mildly, pathetically,
to hear her, by her sorrows, by her
blindness, caused through weeping for
him; but he remained deaf to her
entreaties. Her prayers were breathed
more passionately, and her gestures
became more ,vehement; then, as the
mother's impatience and agony mo-
mently increased, Hartley, wearied by
her appeals, thrust her rudely and
forcibly from him.
The pride of the woman for an in-
stant returned ; she stood at a short
distance, and drew herself up. Raising
her hand, she spoke in a deep and
measured accent:_
"Roland Hartley, I loved you once,
and believed your affection for me was
not feigned, was not all a lie. You
have destroyed my happiness in this
world and that whichis to come. I
ask you now only a small favor--to
search for our child-and Iam refused.
What have I then left but to pour my
malediction on- the false lover and
unnatural father?  Take then   the
curse of the wronged and the broken-
hearted woman ; and may it cling to
thy soul like a canker and a leprosy ;
may it ring in thineears like the knell

of dead Happiness by night and day.
Roland Hartley, man of iron and
cruelty-"'.
- She lifted her sightless orbs to
heaven, and seemed "preparing to
speak, but words would not flow.
Some revulsion of feeling suddenly
took place within   her bosom-the
rigidity of her features relaxed, and a
softness stole over her thin cadaverous
face. Recollections of past years, and
sympathies long dormant, woke to life;
her old and ill-starred love, the cause
of her ruin and all her woe, came back,
like a revived dream, upon her soul,
and Flora Arundel could not curse the
worshipped one of her youth, the father
of her child.
Her head drooped, her arms fell by
her sides, ands the ifext minute, Sub-
dued and comparatively calm, she knelt
on the floor.
"Oh, GodI whose laws I have
broken, pardon me, and forgive this
man! Thy unhappy servant will curse
no one ; let.'me bear my heavy load-
the burden of my misery-alone !"
Mrs. Flemming, arose from     her
knees, and, turning from Hartley, in-
stinctively passed towards the door.
She called the child who stood outside
on the stairs, and then the blind wo-
man,- with her little guide, silently
pursued her way from the precincts of
the Temple.
CHAPTER IX.
THE DEATH-STRUGGLE IT HYDE PAR.
"I HAVE you again-I clasp you
again-I call, you mine again-my
loved one, my joy, my more than life !
I reek not blindness now, for you are
the sun of my soul; I defy sorrow and
pain now, for you will comfort me !"
Thus spoke the mother, as she strain-
ed her son in her arms. Flemming
had returned after the absence of a
fortnight : and why had he deserted
his parent? 'For the first time she had
informed him he was base-born, for
hitherto Flemming had imagined his
father died when he was an infant.
Remarkably sensitive and keenly alive
to all that the world considers dishonor,
his mother's position, and the blot on
her name, affected him powerfully.
His first feelings towards her were in-
dignation and shame, amounting al-

HESTER SOMERSET.

most to abhorrence; and, in this frame
of mind, he fled from the unfortunate
woman, resolving never to behold her
again. But Nature's pleadings were
soon heard; the thought of her unpro-
tected situation, her wrongs, and her
sorrows, melted downthe iron of pride,
while filial love urged him back to her
whom his heart clung to, in spite of the
past, with a strength of affection ex-
ceeded only by her own.
" Then you forgive me ?" said Flem-
ming. " The feelings I entertained I
acknowledge to be unjust and wrong.
You are to be pitied, my dear mother,
not condemned."
"I have no -forgiveness to grant, my
son; I feel only gratitude to Heaven.
I have nothing but love to pour upon
you."-
"But on one," pursued Flemming
-" on one man must justice, the bolt
of vengeance, fall.. Too long, too long,
have your wrongs been unredressed."
The mother could not behold the
working features and the clenched
hand of him who spoke: and. well it
was so. Had she known all which
burned in that bosom-the - hatred
cherished for Hartley, the determina-
tion to obtain revenge, her nature had
shrunk, and all her recent, anxiety for
the fate of her child would have been
renewed.
Days passed. Flemming had called
several timesson Hartley in the Temple,
since his mother's visit; but after two
or three interviews, Hartley, annoyed
and wearied, would see him no more.
The hunchback, persevering in his
calls, the Templar employed one of the
porters to-prevent the youth's entrance
at the door; and finally the police took
himinto custody, and he was cautioned,
never again to repeat his ofence on
pain of imprisonment.
Flemming was doggedly obstinate.
He.would not bend from his purpose,
or relinquish the idea of .obtaining
justice for his mother. Since he could
not gain access to his father's cham-
bers, he would watch him in his walks.
Hartley's solitary habits frequently
led him to the suburbs of London, and
one of his favorite rambles was in
Hyde Park. It was about ten o'clock
in the evening, when, returning from
Kensington-gardens, he crossed the
park in the direction of the Piccadilly
entrance. The moon, in   her first
quarter, hung over the clumps of trees,

147

the tops of which were faintly silvered,
while all below was black massy shade.
It was profoundly still, but the air was
cold, the latter circumstance having
caused loiterers and pedestrians to re-
turnto theirhomes. Hartley passednear'
the Serpentine River, the crisp wave-
lets of which glittered at intervals as
the moon's rays fell obliquely on them.
The stream thus doubly answered to
its name, for' it wound its sinuous
course, and shone also, like a serpent
trailing his scaly length through the
green grass.
At a short distance on his- right,
Hartley perceived a dark spot close by
the water. It moved, and he imagined
it to be a dog.. As the path, however,
conducted him nearer, he discovered
the figure to be that of a human being.
The man was sitting on the ground,
coiled up in the ,form of a ball; but
now, as it were, he unrolled himself
and sprang upon his feet. In the short
deformed body, and long legs,,Hartley
at once recognized Mark Flemming.
The hunchback placed himself "i.
front of the solitary walker; -his eyes
glared beneath the black mass of his
uncombed hair, and his white - face
shone yet more white in the faint and
sickly rays of the moon. Hartley, at
the unexpected appearance'of hin who
had recently watched his movements
and harassedhim in no small degree,
drew involuntarily backward. Flem-
ming did not move, and the other, re-
covering from his surprise, was about
to proceed without speaking.
"No," said Flemming, "y6u will not
escape me. --I have not followed you
from your chambers, and waited here
two hours, for nothing. Mr. Hartley,
my father, we must now come to an un-
derstanding with each other."
"Boy, my answer is the answer I
have returned before.'- ' I will. have
nothing to do with you. Being of age,
you possess no claim on me. Gain a
livelihood in the world in any way you
choose, and torment me no mere."
"Not for myself do-I plead: the son
has no personal favor to ask of his
father ; Ionly demand again, and-if it
be not granted, I'must continue to de-
mand it while I have breath-justice
for my mother !"
"Folly! you know not what you ask ;
I-cannot listen to you-out of my way:!"
"Not yet: by Him who framed thee
and me, and beholds -us now, thou

I"'i

g.
rPe

)


A               7J-- R

U"

148

HESTER SOMERSET.

shalt hear me ! Look at me, my father!
Have I not sufficient to bear in this
blighted misshapen body?  Am I not
the scorn and ridicule of my fellows ?
My calamity weighs down my soul,
and bids me think death would be a
blessing. Now, in addition, I have
the knowledge qf my being base-born
-a thing thrust out from the pale of
law and society. I cannot lift my head
for shame-I am stricken to the dust-
the ineradicable spot clinging to my
name forever. Who has done this ?-
thou: what has caused my deep degra-
dation -thy falsehood to my mother :
art thou not, then, instead of a father,
my blackest foe ?- Yet I forgive thee
on one condition--be just and honora-
ble at last; it is not even now too late :
fulfil thy early vows-restore to thy
victim an honest name before she dies
--be true to thy promise, though it be
at the eleventh hour."
"JDreamer and fool !". interrupted'
Hartley, " I understand not your sense-
less babble-I can'remain listening to'
you no longer.",
"Father l" cried Flemming, seizing
him by the arm, "justice to my mother
-keep your oaths-wipe from her name
the foul stain--wed her, and then per-
mit her to die in peace."
Haftley laughed aloud.
Bitter mocker! cruel betrayer!
her misery and her blindness have a
double claim upon you."-
"Your utter ignorance,:boy, makes
me laugh. Know you so little of the
world as to believe it possible for me to
marry your. mother? She does not,
and never did belong to the class of so-
ciety entitling her to become my wife."
"Then why did you tender-her vows
of honorable attachment ?"
"Pshaw! that is the young man's
common practice. He vows, prays,
and promises, of course, but it is un-
derstood that his words mean nothing.
He forgets them afterwards. 'Tis the
way of the:world-'tis human nature."
Flemming was goaded to frenzy by
these light bantering words. " I have
been guilty," he cried; "my deeds
have been black enough, yet I had no
intention to- embitter by dishonor the
life of her I rashlyloved. Heaven be
praised ! she -is taintless, restored to
her father again, And free forever from
my polluting touch. But your cruelty
and falsehood were pursued on system;
your villany has never been repented

of; and now, even when an opportunity
offers to repair the past, you refuse to
do it.".
"Yes, I refuse,; and, in addition
to this," continued Hartley, "know,
wretched and insolent boyI that I
never loved your motherr"
"Never loved her ! after all that
passed? Oh ! villany on villany !"
" Ay, and as much as I loathe you,
vile piece of deformity! I now detest
her. Away ! I east you both from me ;
I- renounce all connection with you;
and here I command you never to cross
my path again !"
" Cross your path ?" cried Flemming,
fiercely detaining Hartley as the latter
was about to proceed-"I will never
cease to do it. .I scorn your commands;
I laugh at your threats. I will pursue
you through life. Thou shalt be an
Orestes followed by the Furies, for-thou
art worse than he. Where thou art,
there shalt thou behold me' - thy
haunter, thy demon. And never will
my efforts cease., Can my task be com-
pleted .until I gain redress and ven-
geance for my mother's wrongs ?"
As these words were spoken vehe-
mently, the countenance of Hartley
underwent a fearful change. Difficult
to be moved from his wonted cold col-
lectedness and stoical hardness, when
his passions were aroused, he lost all
command of himself; his rage com-
pletely metamorphosed his nature. It
was not with him an honest storm,
which blusters and blows itself to rest;
it was the fearful tornado which suc-
ceeds the calm, and brings with it the
lightnings which shiver and consume.
Hartley fixed his eyes on the youth
with fiery malignity ; his overhanging
brow was contracted into thick lines ;
his thin lips, drawn back, showed dis-
tinctly his white .dazzling teeth; and
his throat swelled like the throat of the,
constrictor when about to spring on its
prey.
"Thou will cross me, thou sayest; .
thou wilt not cease to-follow and tor-
ment me. And is my peace to be,
broken by a thing like thee ?"  -
"Yes, a thing like me!--a misera-
ble, creeping reptile, like me, who am,
nevertheless; thy son."
"What matters ?" said Hartley, as
though speaking to himself;. "if a,
part of me, I have a greater right to
cast it from me, and to quench its ener-
gies when it embittersjiy own exist-

H E S TER S O ME IRS E T.

ence. Whether it sleep now or thirty
years hence, it can make little differ-
ence."
As he ground these words through
his teeth, rather than spoke, Hartley
continued, to drag Flemming nearer to
the Serpentine. The latter, half com-
prehending the meaning of the action,
struggled in his grasp. The hunch-
back was vigorous, but in the iron
gripe of the athletic Hartley he seemed
a mere child.
"Would you murder me ?" cried
Flemming--" would you-kill your son?"
"Send thee to slumber, unhappy be-
ing, only a little while before thy natu-
ral time."
The bank sloped away to the edge of
the water, which in that place was of'
an unusual depth. The air was still;
the moon had sunk behind the trees,
and there was no human being, besides
these two, in that part of the park. All
favored the unnatural father's design.
Down towards the water they still went
reeling. With a violent effort, Hartley
bound Flemming's arms together, and,
thus manacled, he would be unable to
swim. The margin -of the bank crum-
bled beneath their feet-would the
murderer relent?
Night ! draw thy veil over the -scene.
Humanity 1 hide from Virtue's eye the
spectacle of cruelty and horror. When
will the spirit of Cain cease to walk
the earth, andithe demons be chained
in their adamantine caves, to stir up no
more to madness the hearts of men?
" My mother ! my mother 1" were the
last words that gurgled over-the water;'
then:quietness fell around. The stars
shone placidly on high, the little waves,
crept "on with faintest murmurs, and
the flowers on the bank drank the night-
dews with their odorous lips. Nature
changed not in her aspect of peace and
beauty,, but all things .continued to
smile, as if no soul that instant had
been disunited from its fleshy bonds,
and sent from life and light into the
dark unknown.

CHAPTER .X.-

THE PAUPER FUNERAL-THE PRoSPECTs
-     oF RESTER BRIGHTEN.'
TrE truth was not discovered. A
person was found drowned in the Ser-

149

pentine--an event of very frequent oc-
currence in connection with that sub-
urban river. All marks of violence
being absent, and the man's arms
having been bound with a handkerchief
bearing - initials  which  afterwards
proved to be those of his own name,
the case was considered one of despe-
rate self-destruction, and a verdict at
the coroner's inquest was returned ac-
cordingly.
She who might have guessed the
perpetrator of the deed was unable to
give her testimony or state her convie-
tions to the world. Therecognition of
the lifeless Flemming, who lay at the
workhouse to be claimed by his friends,
proved a shock too great for the already
enfeebled mother. There are cords of
the heart which anguish can literally
strain and break; there is a grief that
can kill. The parent died on the body
of her child.
A pauper funeral-the two victims
at least received this last acknowledg
ment of humanity from their fellow-
creatures. A few boards hastily nailed
together ; a hurrying away of- the ide-
ceased on the shoulders of men who;
being allowed no " dram," do their work
sulkily; no one to follow, no one to drop
a tear over remains so mean and de-
spised ; a thrusting of the coffins into
shallow holes, rather than- pits, in one
corner of the crowded parish grave-
yard; no-stone, no raised turf to mark
the spot, but a trampling and beating
down to make-the place level with the
surrounding soil, so that new-comers
may be piled upon the last without sus-
picion-such is a pauper's funeral!
Well may we sigh to muse on thy lot,
Flora  Arundel I -to think of thy
youth's spring, thy beauty, thy loving
heart, thy betrayal and. desertion, thy
anxious character as a toiling mother
thy poverty, thy bereavement, and-thy
pauper's grave at last I Sad destinyif
God's created! Ohbd Heaven, the eter-
nal fount, of justice, if, another world
did not await us, where the sufferers
of earth shall be comforted and -receive
their-good things, how might we recon-
cile the acts of Providence with the
laws of equity and the attributes of
mercy ?
Time passed, and the tragic occur-
rence began to be less thought of by
Mr. Somerset and his daughter, for
these two alone it affected. The pros-
pects of Hester daily brightened in her

r
b
'    ;
,r"         . '   _'

d
A
1
f d
di
1  a
+
111
'{F
fS}+ v '
s-
N     e w,
1   Y
/Ji
yy. wr
+rSi
AT
, err
LK
*s r
1: 4
a          sl

" i1;
-.t
'
..                                    1 x ^;S
S
'                                        S' r:
~1:


k:

U

150

HESTER SOMERSET.

school near Doctors' Commons, The
young mistress was universally liked,I
and her pupils became so numerous
that the task of superintending them
was one of close application and unre-
witted exertion. Julie, the turnkey's
daughter, never failed to assist her
every day in the more laborious por-
tions of her duties. Hester, however,
wished her to relinquish these menial
offices, but the girl, in her humility and,
anxiety to be useful, would not abandon
her accustomed tasks; yes, her pride
and happiness seemed to consist in -be-
ing considered Hester's servant ; her
intense love and devotion were tem-
pered by a meek spirit of distant re-
spect,-and this mingled sentiment; while
it urged her to embrace one towards
whom her heart so yearned, imposed
on her silence, and prompted reserve.
The income which Hester derived
from  her pupils, forty in  number,
amounted to about 1201. a year. Of
this she saved more than   one-half.
Should she be able to maintain her
present position, the happy calculator,
the clever and thrifty financier,, con-
sidered that in five years she should
have accumulated   the sum  desired.
Already had she labored six years, but
the fruits of her toil, at. that moment,-
amounted to no more than forty pounds.
Brighter skies now spread above her,
and richer harvests seemed to wave at
her feet. " Five years"-how : often
Hester whispered these words to her-
self!-five short years, and the neces-
sary sum would be in her hands ; then
Hartley's schemes would be baffled, and
his malignity defied, for her father
would be free t "Five short years'-
had any one at the still hour of night
hung over her couch, her lips in.sleep
might have been    heard  breathing
these words. She dreamed of money,
of bills of exchange, of saving pound
after pound for one holy purpose. The
once  reckless, frolicksome  girl of
Brookland Hall-had beenconverted into
a plodding merchant, an-,anxious accu-
mulator of thst sordid dust-gold and
silver. So her fingers, in her dreams,
would move quickly,;as if .in the:actiof
counting; then the words, "Lawyers,
Insolvent Court, Debtors' Prisons,"
would follow at intervals, being always
succeeded by:the "five-short years-
free-! free l"-while smiles would steal
across her face, and tears of the heart's
full ~rapture well. from beneath the

snowy lids, which lay so tranquilly on
her sleeping cheek.
Thus the daughter of the poor debt-
or in the Fleet continued to press on
towards the goal of her desires. Beau-
tiful dream of affection ! bright hopes
of coming joy!1 and must they, too, be
scattered and dissolved ?

CHAPTER XI-

MR. PIKE AND HIS NOTABLE PLAN. FOR
BREAKING UP HESTER'S SCHOOL.
MR. PIKE in his last project had suf-
fered a defeat, and this was occasioned,
thereader will remember, bythe repent-
ance of Flemming, who, after the fear-
ful scene through which Hester passed,
had sent her back in safety to her
lodgings. The circumstance caused
the little attorney much chagrin and
anger, for failure in anything he under-
took was almost unknown to him, his
sagacity and professional wisdom usu-
ally triumphing over every difficulty.
Thinking of his discomfiture, he stamp-
ed to and fro in his office in St. Mary-
Axe ; anon he stopped, apd beat the
table savagely with his fist, uttering,
at the same time, many threatening
words..
At length the indignant gentleman
-consoled himself byborming plans for
the future, and in dressing his frugal
dinner.; the :last was prepared inthe
inner room, and consisted solelyof cheap
vegetables: thus engaged, the fund-
holder sank into deep meditation ; and
whether. his thoughts were of a plea-
sant description, or the savory fumes
of his favorite viands gratified his ol-
factory sense, certain it was that-he
smiled till his broad mouth puckered
up at the corners, his three .solitary
teeth obtruded- th selves, and his
little round eyes twinkled like' black
glass beads.'
"Hai ha ! she thought I shouldn't
find her out, did she ?" whispered the
happy gentleman. "To be sure I have
had considerable trouble in tracing her;
and odd it was to stable upon her in
that way, amidst all her scholars. What
a nest of them, too, the young creature
has contrived to gather around her!-..
There's money coming in, no doubt of
it ; but the thing must not go on-no,,.
no."

HESTER SOMERSET.-

The face of Mr. Pike assumed a more
serious and anxious expression. He did
not,. however, soliloquize again until
he had finished his repast, and drunk
his usual tumbler of springwater: that
beverage agreed with him far better,
than ale or other strong drinks, the
love of which, he maintained, in his
rigid code of morals, ranked among the
greatest of crimes.
"I wonder," said Mr. Pike, "if Hart-
ley did make away with that youth,
after all. If I were sure of this, what
a hold I should have upon him !-,-I
would not drag him to justice-no, no,
that would never answer my purpose ;
moreover, I am averse to the system of
hanging, for it cuts off a man from, the
possibility ofrepentanee, and of amend-
ing his life. I should act most wicked-
ly if I brought Hartley to the gallows,;
but -instead,. making good flow from
evil, I would demand from him, for
keeping silence, in lieu of my paltry
annuity, say one thousand a year ; or he
should pay me a large sum at once, as
a provision for my old age.,. Thus
Flemming's death would serve him and
serve me, while= the youth himself,
spared the troubles and temptations of
this evil world, would be happy in an-
other-at least, I hope so."
With a placid and benevolent smile,
Mr. Pike rose from his table, and began
to brush up the faded nap of his large
hat; he brushed, too, his threadbare
coat, and his little black trousers, worn
very white down the seams; he then
passed his straps under his broad heavy
shoes, which, to save the expense of
blacking, were oiled,,so that they look-
ed in dull but respectable mourning
all through the year. These things
Mr. Pike did preparatory to his going
abroad, for he hated slovenliness, and'
prided himself on being-not smart
indeed inhis toilet-but always" neat."
The attorney was gojpg to the print-
er's office,,to urge en the completion of
certain placards.. As usual, he assumed
in :the business a feigned name ; and
from this habitual precaution arose the
difficulty of ever tracing an act to the
agency of the politic lawyer.
A few days after the little scene just
described, a man might have been ob-
-served walking slowly up and down in
the vicinity of- Wardrobe-place; he
wore .atop coat-for the weather was
rather cold-and round his neck was
wrapped alarge woollen comforter, into

151

which, his chin was plunged, little of
his face beiug seen besides his eyes.
He looked at his watch ; it was almost
five o'clock; and as that apparently
wished-for hour approached, he drew
nearer to the entrance of Wardrobe-
place.
".They'll not be long now," said the
little gentleman as he took a large
packet of what appeared to be letters
from his side-pocket, looked at them,
and returned them once more to the
deep repository.  "The school is al-
ways over at five-that I- know; we
will put a stop to this money-making,"
he =added. " If I was defeated last
time, I'll try not to be defeated this.
Why, I learn she saves money fast-a
very annoying circumstance to Mr.
Hartley; but I'll please him-I'll do
his business for him cleverly, and~ he
shall not upbraid me again with a fail-
ure. What do I meditate doing?-an
evil action ?-certainly not. First, I
serve my employer-and every man's
duty is to be faithful to his employer.
Secondly, Mr. Somerset must not be
freed from prison ;,he is better there, I
say again, and leads a more quiet and
virtuous, life than' he would do if at
liberty, surrounded by the.temptations
of the world. Lastly, the close atmo-
sphere of a room filled with children
must be highly injurious to the health
of this young woman.. Oh1 yes, Iam
justified in my conduct, and I feel quite
satisfied and happy in my conscience."
Saying this, Mr. Pike, with a cheer-
ful step, walked under the covered way
which leads to Wardrobe-place. He
took his station at the corner, opposite
one of the old lime-trees;she looked up
among the branches, and a red-breas
was there singing merrily.; the little
chorister was harmless, and free from
all guile, just as Mr. Pike believed his
own spirit to be.
St. Paul's clock struck, five; the
attorney gazed. anxiously at the house
in which Hester held her school.-The
dooropened, and the children, one by
one, not noisily ori in confusion, issued
forth. They walked toaartis the covered
passage where our afriend;stood,_each
proceeding- to -her , home. Then Mr.
Pike might have been seen with his
larrge packet.ofletters in his handjhia
snipy face half; buried in the.great
woollen comforter, and his hat drawn
over his eyes. The orderly condut of
the children, who did not crowd t-

CS
4'M1
xU
77N N.;
jc 1
yf 4
'rat
'^r4pg ,f
f lY
f eFt
t  br
ilyrN+.
3 l°G
t                  a}

-, , , a.,.--,.

J
r   '
+d


m

152

HESTER SOMERSET.

i
{
s
c
4
4
8
i
{
r
t
td
f
I
+3
9
r
a
a
3
w
Y

gather, facilitated the performance of
what he had in view. Quickly, as they
severally passed, he -placed into the
hands of each one of his letters: it was,
carefully wafered, and addressed " To
theiMother of this Young Lady." Some
of the children stared; but letters ten-
dered to them by such an amiable-look-
ing old gentleman, and directed to their
mothers, awakened their curiosity, and
they willinglyreceived them.
",Don't give them  to any one but
your excellent mothers, my dear' chil-
dren," said Mr. Pike, in his mildest
and most winning tone of voice. " Go
home-now, sweet innocents!1 and take
an old man's blessing !"
Reaching the main street, the chil-
dren dispersed to their respective dwell-
ings; and Mr. Pike also turned away
from Wardrobe-place.
"I think that will do," he said; " I
have done it quietly-very comfortably.
A happy thought it was, ant- far bet-
ter than the plan I adopted on the for-
nmer occasion, when I called on the
parents. We shall see how the society's
name in this way will work. Pike, you
are an ingenious fellow-a clever dog-
yes, yes, but a conscientious man too.'7
So the attorney went home pleasantly
chuckling, and feeling all the while
"satisfied and happy" in his own con-
science.
Now, what might be .the contents of
the letters' or circulars which Mr. Pike
had so carefully distributed among
Hester's pupils? Each,- as we' said,
was addressed "To' the Mother of this
Young:Lady," and it ran as follows :-
"REsPEOTED MADAM-Perhaps you
are aware that, i our great metropolis,
two excellent societies exist, whose-ob-
jects are to protect private families from
thedesignsof thieves,-and to watch over
the morals of the people-their names
being 'The Fraud-Preventiig Society,'
and the,'Society for'the Abolition of
Vice.', . You are now respectfully ad-
dressed by the last-named association.
Oar officers' and visitors; in'their
philanthropic'' rounds through  this
populous city, have discovered thatin
the neighborhood-of Doctors' Commons,
a certain schoolhas been set up,'pur-
portingo-to bekept by a young [,ady ;f
respectable andvirtuous character. We
are sorry to be under the' necessity of
warning and undeceiving the people
who reside in this locality; -but our

HESTER  SOMERSET.

CHAPTER XII.

duty must be performed. One.motive
only influences 'us in our exertions-a
desire that the rising generation should
be honest, virtuous, and worthy of the
parents who bore them. How import-
ant is it, then, that children, and espe-
cially young females, ,should be placed
under the tuition of those only whose
principles are correct,;. The school
alluded to has been started by a young
woman who appears to be a lady, and
possessed of amiable manners.: alas !
so ihuch greater the danger !-Our of-
ficers have discovered that she is not
'what she should be;' in a word, that
she is an impostor. The unhappy crea-
ture has borne two or three different
names, to hide her previous actions, and
aid her designs in getting money. She
is well known at the police courts, and
has been in custody several times for
divers offences-and among them, theft.
At this very moment, her father is a
prisoner in a common jail!
- " Under these circumstances, respect-
ed Madam, we feel it our duty to give
you a friendly warning. If you desire
the well-being of your child, take her
away from that school. Our letter will
be tendered to your daughter by one of
our visitors ; this mode of. communica
tion, for certain reasons, appearing to
us most expedient.
(Signed)
The Society for the Abolition of Vice,
"cJOHN  Jons, Secretary."
In addition to the above alarming
epistle, the indefatigable Mr. Pike had
caused; in the dusk of the same even-
ing,= several printed .-placards to be
posted on the walls near Wardrobe-
place. The men-who with their cans
of paste and long poles make their
employment a regular profession-per-
formed their duty well; for, in the
morning, all who could read -might
learn that a certain young female of a
very doubtful and dangerous -charanter
had come -to that neighborhood, and
established a school. -'The codnterfeit
name she then bore, it would be need-
less--the: paper hinted-to mention
but mothers were urgently called upon
to-.-beware!
What-effect all this might have, may
easily be divined; alarm is-so soon ex
cited in the breasts of women,- nd peo-
ple, for tthe most part, so readily give
credence to evil reports concerning
their neighbors.

158

Xa. PIKE'S SCHEME PRODUCES REsULTS.
AT the accustomed hour, Julie made
her appearance to assist Hester before
the school opened for the day; but, as
the latter welcomed her with her usual
happy smile,, the turnkey's daughter
seemed agitated and alarmed..
" I have seen a most strange placard
against the walls this morning."
"Very likely," observed   Hester,
laughing ; " for Londonu is a strange
place, and contains strangepeople."
"Oh! I hope I may be mistaken.
The school it describes as rapidly in-
creasing cannot be "
"But it can be.   You teach the
smaller scholars admirably; and I be-
lieve, my dear Julie, it is chiefly owing
to yon that my school has become so
flourishing."
The poor girl caught her mistress by
the dress. " Do not jest-; but perhaps"
I am   deceived ; perhaps I read it-
wrongly ; there may be other schools
in the neighborhood."
Hester seeing Julie so serious, and
struck by her vague words, altered her
manner, and asked her what she meant.
"The infamous placard, Miss Somer-
"Well, what does it say ?"
"I have drawn one from the wall
just outside," stammered Julie. "Here
it is!"
Hester took the square piece of red
paper, and her eyes were riveted on it.
At first her countenance expressed in-
credulity, then a gradually awakening
conviction of some dreaded fact, and
-lastly, bitter and sharp anguish. The
paper fell on the ground, and she moved
backwards, sinking into a chair. Oh!
the piteous look which Hester cast at
Julie, as she felt that a cloud had'sud-
denly come over the delightful prospect
which lately spread before her1!-' He
has found me I" she said, in a low tone
of voice, betokening an agony words
may not express.  All that her poor
companion could:do was to stand b
-her side, kiss her hand, and cover it
with tears.  At 'length Julie spoke,
with a-hope of encouraging her mis-
tress.
"Grieve not thus-may we not both
be wrong in supposing this paperdi-
rected against yourself? Even if it is,
11

1'
1    +
t
Y
r
ii
' aaF
fir?
pt,

5
pp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t                                                                                                                             '

-                     +t

can you not prosecute your wicked per-
secutor ?"
" There lies the difficulty, Julie. So
cunning and-cautious is this man, that
while we are certain of his evil deeds,
we have no proof to convict hini in a
court of justice. You observe, no ad-
dress is given on this placard-no real
name ; and the 'Society,' put forth so
pompously, is merely an imaginary one.
But people will believe.all!" she cried,
yielding again to her wild grief-" be-
lieve all, and I am ruined !"
"But wait the event--be patient for
a short time," suggested Julie. "Per-
haps we shall find every fear ground-
less. Yes, yes, no doubt all the scho-
lars will attend as usual."
Hester listened to her companion;
but it was not without great anxiety
that she tarried for the hour when the
pupils were accustomed5to:flock to the
school. That hour came ; two children
only appeared. , Still she waited, and
expected ; but so well had Mr. Pike's
measures succeeded, that not one more
arrived.  The -parents of' these two
children were all out of, the. entire
number who did not attend to, and be-
lieve, the malicious statements, of the
attorney. Even these 'children evinced
a kind of shrinking and fear, and spoke
of letters given them by some gentle-
man on thepreceding day.
About an hour had passed, when
several women were seen entering to-
gether Wardrobe-place. Their steps
were hurried, and their eyes sparkled
with anger. They looked at each other
in surprise, for their business seemed
to be the same. By a simultaneous
.movement they advanced to the house
where Hester resided, and so eager
were they to gain admittance that two
or three extended their hands to the
knocker together. The unsuspecting
Jalie opened the door,-and the women,
without naming their business, in-
stantly proceeded to the school-room.
"You are here, then-?" said the fore-
most woman,, throwing back her hair
from her'inflamed cheeks.
"'Found out at last!i" exclaimed a
second.
"Oh, what hypocrisy and guilt'we
have around us in this evil world'!"
cried a third,' sentimentally lifting her
hands and eyes.
Hester'noved back from the group
with feelings;of terror, but they kept
gradually-advancing upon her.

r
4
n
T
.Y
y
33
1
b
ii
)i
u
Y
k
{N
F
z
4
tt


HESTEE R S'OMERSET. EO1

" What do you mean? Please e4-
plain yourselves, I beseech you."
" Oh!1 that's of- no use !" cried the
foremost-; "you know.your own cha-
racter, young woman, so you cannot be
ignorant of our business."
"We are come, ma'am," said ano-
ther-" andI dare sayIspeak Mrs. Gub-
bin's, Mrs. Montmorency's, and Mrs.
Stubbs's sentiments-we are come just
to speak our mind, and serve you as
you deserve."
Again the group drew nearer, and
their gestures became more threaten-
ing.
"We love virtue, ma'am; and gen-
tility," said the sentimental one, "and
you appeared to possess both; therefore
we loved you, and sent our poor inno-
cent children to your school. Our eyes
*are opened now. Your ;school would
be to them the nursery of perdition,
and the road to the gallows.-Oh, un-
happy young female I what mercy can
you expect at our hands ?"
The other women applauded this lit-
tle speech ;{but Julie, perceiving their
passions grow every moment more vio-
lent, threw herself before them, and
endeavored to plead on behalf of her
beloved mistress.
-"What. !"cried they, "are you in
league? ?and do you both pretend not
to understand us yet? At least, then,
you shall know how we have become,
enlightened, and how -poor deluded
mothers have been warned to save their
offspring from contamination and ruin
-thanks to that excellent Society for
the Abolition of Vice I"
Each woman now drew forth Mr.
Pike's letter; Hester eagerly seized one,
and read it. as well as her swimming
eyes and sinking frame would permit
her. The women regarded her in bit-
ter and-silent indignation, yet curious
to observe hew she might bear the full
'discovery of'her presumed guilt.
The:plausibility, the hellish cunning-
displayed bylthe writer, surpassed even
what she mighthave expected from her
persecutor Pike., She could no longer
blame-the conduct of those before her,
but rather marvelled that theytere not-
even more. exasperated,.;During -that
morning, her nerves;had undergone a
strain siufciently severe; this 'last
stroke exceeded 'almostwhat nature-
could bear. : " Infamous, falsehoods!
Oh, I am wrongfully accused l" was all

she could exclaim ; and the poor victim
of her father's enemies, like a flower
bowed down to the earth by the step of
some reckless passer-by, seemed crush-
ed by the weight of her calamity, for
she sank, without sense or motion, into
the arms of Julie.  4

CHAPTER XIII.

HESTER'S nIFE IN DANGER--THE DISTRESS
of THE IMPRISONED FATHER.
IT was nearly twelve o'clock, and the
night was profoundly still. The spar-
rows= were 'asleep in the trees of the
little square ; the overlabored mechanic
had crept to his bed ;, and the measured
step of the police on the pavement was
the only sound that fell at intervals on
the ear.
Wearily drag on the hours of night
to the sick who cannot sleep.p The cur-
tains were drawn around the bed; on
the floor stood the shaded candle; ,the
small table displayed sundry bottles
with labels, some being half emptied of
their contents; there, too, the divided
orange spoke of the patient's thirst-
grateful fruit, which fever and pain
hold dear, and even the dying loveI
Mohammed should have placed it in
his paradise, to bloom by the. rivers of
amber, and by the throne of Allah.
An anxious quiet reigned in that
room. Two persons were watching the
sick;, an elderly . gentleman, with a
placid, benevolent face, sat near the
head of the bed: notwithstanding the
great danger in which the patient lay,
he was perfectly calm, as a medical
man ever should be. His- gold repeater
rested on his knees, and every now and
then he consulted. it, as he stretched
out his hand to feel the pulse of the
invalid. .Occasionally a smile softened
his Wrinkled countenace, but it was
quickly succeeded by an expression of-
anxiety and severe thought : he was
evidently watching a crisis.
The other attendant was the turn-
key's daughter; and she stood by the
.table, in readiness to give to the doctor
anything that might be required.,The
anguish of the heart was checked, lest
it might interfere withthe duties of the
nurse;,but it was not felt the less. Her

eyes might be filled with tears, and her
bosom might be bursting, yet not for
an instant did Julie turn away to vent.
her natural feelings: there she re-
mained by the doctor's -side, all eye
and ear, only at times stooping forward,
and cautiously moving back the curtain
to look for a moment on her who was
so near the portal of death.
Yes, occasioned by the severe conflict
of her harrowing feelings, since her last
hopes had been crushed by the ma-
noeuvres of Mr. Pike, Hester had been
seized with a fever: it was one which
did not affect the brain, but the disease
had taken a very dangerous form. And
there she lay on the pillow, calm and
still as the night around them, but
feeble as an infant. Her forehead, not
contracted' by pain, was smooth and
beautiful, but her face had no. hue of
life, except a red spot burning in the
centre of the cheeks. Her eyes were
half closed, the long lashes shading the
blue, as. strips of black cloud conceal
the azure of the "rainy April" heaven.
Her hair (they had not found it neces-
sary to deprive her of that adornment)
lcy in its dishevelled length over the
pillow and on the coverlet of the bed-
golden, wavelike, abundant hair, such
as the heads of angels are painted
with-hair, the loveliness of which dis-
ease cannot affect, and death would not
triumph over.
No word, 'no groan fell from the lips
of Hester; she continued without mo-
tion, and apparently without breathing.
Julie now whispered into the surgeon's
ear:--
"Has the crisis you speak of passed ?"
The medical man did 'not answer,
but placed his finger on his lip,'and.
the profound quiet was unbroken dur-
ing another hour; then, for the first
time that night, Hester feebly spoke
"Where is he-my father ?"
Julie looked painfully at the surgeon.
She -knew the reason why Mr. Somerset
was not there, but felt reluctant to name
it to Ifester:-
" My dear young lady," said the doc-
tor, ."do not distress yourself about
that now."   -
"I must see him."
"He.will be here in the morning."
"The, morning ?"-Hester paused,
and sighed-" I shall not-live-to see
the morning."'
"Oh! yes, yes, you will, my dearest
'child," said the good man encourag-

ingly; "and many mornings more, I
hope."
" Let me see him. Is he reluctant
to look on death? Is his fear of being
infected by my complaint stronger than
his love ?"
Julie now scrupled no longer; she
resolved to tell the truth, and the medi-
cal man gave her liberty to speak.
"You do your father wrong,- dear
Miss Somerset, in 'supposing him un-
willing to come. When he left this
afternoon, we believed you better. I
have been to the prison to-night, but
unfortunately the hour was past when
the mates have liberty to go out on
payment of money. The turnheys re-
fused, on any consideration, to permit
him to quit the walls."
" Not even to see, his dying child !
Oh ! cruel laws of the hard and merci-
less ! but let it be," continued Hester,
turning her head on the pillow. "I
can pray for him, if I cannot see him;
I can bless him, if I cannot weep my
last tears in his arms. Father, you are
growing - old ; trials and -misfortunes
will shorten your natural days-it will
not be long, ere we shall meet again."
Her look was placid and resigned, and
the expression of her face was one, of
trust and hopefulness. Her lips niur'
mured at intervals: "Bless thee-bless
thee-God protect thee! May some
kind heart at last do that for which I
have labored in vain-give thee liberty;
and-may thy closing days be yet bright
and happy .
" Who is this loitering in the pass
sage ?" said one of the chief officials of
the Fleet Prison to the turnkey then
doing duty at the gate.
"'Tis No. 10, inner-yard, Mr. Somer-
set, sir."
"Mr. Somerset ?-what does the man
want here? 'Tis time -he were in his
bed: you know the new rules-prison--
ers are not to keep these late hours."
" I've ordered him baeh to his room,
sir; buthe'won't go.".
"Disobedient 2-disorderly-eh:? We
will soon-see what he means by this."
Saying:which, the gentleman function-
ary strode up to the prisoner,who was
leaning against the wall near a lamp,
his eyes fixed on the prison door open-
ing into the ,street. -He did not at first
hear the voice of theyperson 'who ac-
costed him. "What! do:you pretend
to be deaf?--you prisoner there, Mr.

V                                         -

154

HESTER SOMERSET.

155

A
Z
tp
1
S   tl
3
[t
i
9
C


HESTER SOMERSET'

T
s
a
x

HESTER SOMERSET.

Somerset? what do you mean by re-    " I wish to bid her farewell-to hear
siting the turnkey's order?- Retire to her last Words-to look on her before
your room; 'tis my duty to see that pri- her dear eyes close for the last time.
soners don't in future keep these late Oh ! if you are a father-if you have
hours-off!"                        the heartof a man, you will sympathize
Mr. Somerset only groaned, and with me-you will pity me!"
looked at the closed door. The officer  " Well, well, I am sorry," said the
laid his hand on his shoulder.     fellow, drawing up his shirt-collars,
" My good man, then you won't un- " but it can't be helped ; go to your
derstandme-have youbeen drinking?" room orderly ; I dare say she'll manage
The ruined gentleman who once pos- to live out the night. Now, walk back,
sessed his thousands a'year, the re- will you? for I want to go to bed my-
spectedmagistrate ofa populous district, self."
moved back a few steps; the foul words  More bitter than insults, worse than
of this upstart menial caused for a mo- stripes would have been, were these
ment the blood to mount to his cheek, cold words to the bleeding heart of the
but he instantly recollected himself:  father.
"I bear your insults-I forgive all-  "Hear me !" he cried, raising his
only, for the love of Heaven, open that hands in passionate eagerness ; "this
door !"                            daughter is more to me than my life ;
" A strange request, truly; you want she has mourned for me--toiled for
to escape, I-suppose ?"            me-given me bread for years ; the la-
"One hour's absence-it is all I ask; hors and the persecutions which she
only one hour.'"                   has endured for my sake have caused
The official stared:             this grievous.'illness : and I must not
"Well, man, I should think you had see her again; I am denied the sad
been in this house long enough to know satisfaction of one last look. My child-~-
better; surely you are aware that we my expiring child-my little one-my
neverallow prisoners to goout, for love Hester !" He paused, for the strong
or money, after sunset, and now 'tis man was overcome, and his breast
nearly midnight."                  heaved with choking sobs.   "Have
"I know it well," said Mr. Somerset, compassion on the sorrows of a father!
with an agonized look;. '"but I throw  Give me leave to depart -deny me
myself on your generosity, your pity. not-an hour, I say, one short hour-
I wish to see my daughter ; she is ill-  you shall have money-=you shall have
she is dying !"all I possess-it is in your power-they
"Yes," said the under-turnkey, old will not blame you for being thus mer-
Reuben, approaching, for he had been ciful-let me fly to my daughter-let
sorrowfully- pacing to and fro, at a me go ! let me go !"
short distance,; "the gentleman's daugh- As the Hebrew patriarch, when be-
ter -i dying; my young woman-my reaped of his favorite child, forgot his
child who is :with her-came here just manhood and wept, so did that old man.
now to-say so.-.                 What were worldly trials, caused by
"You hold your tongue, Reuben," the - loss of station and wealth, com-
said the superior sternly. "Don't speak pared with the woes now of that strick-
till you are spoken to, sirrah. If I en heart? He only saw death and the
nistakenot, Mr. Somerset hada liberty- grave.  Fortunes, however desperate
ticket to-day; why didn't he- see his or ruined, may be repaired.; but never,
daughter then ?"                   never more shall come from the realms
"1was with her,"replied the father; of silence, and dark, unwaking sleep,
she rallied, and appeared better this the beloved ones of our soul, with their
afternoon, so at -sunset I hurried back soothing voices and their happy smiles.
to :the prison; b.t now-now," he    Old Reuben, as he witnessed the
gasped, "perhaps the last hours come. father's emotion, was deeply affected;
Let me go--I implore you--let me go I" but he had no power to act ; he sighed
"Madness !- folly !" exclaimed the and drew his rough sleeve across his
officer; "if twenty daughters were dy- eyes, for the gathering drops obscured
ing, we can't-violate, the rules of this his sight. The officer, whose heart was
place. Why, man, if the young woman callous by nature, as well as indurated
is to die, your being with her couldn't by habit, spoke in a decisive tone:-
prevent it I suppose!1 "Now, all this is very ell, but 'tis

157

ings, sir. We sha'n't lose the dear
young lady this time, thank HeavenI
-no, no. The crisis- has passed, and
we are better, much better; our fever
is 'abated, and our pulse is good. We
shall get on now very well--charming
-believe me."
"But may I not see her ?" stammered
out Mr. Somerset, in his delight.
" Certainly : only piomiseto be calm,
for we must be careful not to agitate
her nerves. I will return to the room
with you."
Quietly Hester lay in the embracing
arms of her father. Happy she felt,
and grateful as happy.
"  thank God," she whispered, "for
this. He has heard my prayer for your
sake ; a little longer shall I be spared
to love you, father, to be near you, and
to hope-hope that your present mis-
fortunes will pass away."

of no use. We must attend to our duty
here. Why, to let you out, Mr. Somer-
set, at this hour of the night, might
. even be a hazarding of my situation ;-
yes, my situation, sir," added the man,
than the loss of which he could con-_
ceive no stroke or affliction more ter-
rible. "In a word, you can't and you
sha'n't leave the prison. Return to your
room, or I shall order the turnkeys to
drag you there by force."
The wretched father, perceiving that
all was over, yielded to his fate.. He
addressed not another word to the in-
human man who thus controlled his
destiny, but slowly walked back to the
prison yard, where his own apartment,
was situated. There he passed the re-
mainder of the night in anxiety and
sorrow only to be imagined; Yet he
was not alone, for Reuben insisted on
sitting up with him, the poor turnkey,
in his rude and honest way, endeavor-
ing to render him consolation.
The morning-the prayed-for morn-
in g-at, length dawned.  The, usual
liberty-ticket was procured, and the
moment the rules allowed, eight o'clock,
the ,impatient father hurried through
the opened gate of the prison. With
feverish haste he passed up Ludgate--
hill, and a few minutes brought him to
Doctors' Commons. As he drew near
to Wardrobe-place, his anxiety and
suspense were intolerable.  Did his
child live ? or was she no more,? Dread
and hope alternately filled his heart.
He reached the covered passage, and
entered the little square; there his agi-
tation became so excessive, that ' his-
palpitating heart seemed as though it
would burst his bosom, while his knees
smote each other.
He saw the house-the shutters-were
not closed-thank Heaven for that !
Death, at least, was not there. He
knocked softly, and the door was opened
by a servant-girl. He was too much'
excited to ask a question, but at that
instant the surgeon was descending the
stairs. The good gentleman had been
sitting up all the night, and was now
going home to obtain some rest. As -he
saw Mr. Somerset, he hurried forward
to meet him. There was no shaking of
the head-no gloom now in that benevo-
lent face. Oh! what a light his smile east
on the darkness of the father's soul!
" Good-morning," said the doctor,
taking Mr. Sopierset cheerfully by the
hand; "I am the bearer of happy tid-

THE COTTAGE AT BROMPTON.
THEY removed the invalid, whose
health was daily improving, to Bromp-
ton-a locality generally esteemed for
theinildness of the air. She would.not
consent to reside at a greater distance
from her father ; and an hour's drive
would-take her from that place to the
Fleet Prison.
Brompton was not then, as- now, to
accommodate a plethoric ,and over-
grown population, covered with bricks
and mortar. Green fields refreshed the:
eye of the exploring and adventurous
citizen. For Bow-bells, and the. crush
of wagons in Thames-street, he -heard
here the low of cattle and the bleat of
sheep;' the thrush sang in the thickets,
and the winds that, sweeping over east-
ward-spreading London, whirled about
only dust and smoke, were=here sur-
prised and gratified at being able to
load their pinions with rich fragrance,
breathed upwards: from countless gar-
dens.
Oh! ye destroyers ! Civilization and.
advancing Prosperity lye arch-enemies
to Nature and Nature's delights-! that
scene now is blotted out.-The tuneful
blackbird has winged away to regions.
that still offer a covert ; the lowing cat-
tle have been driven to Smithfield, and
converted into food ! and where trees

1{                                                                                            J

CHAPTER XIV.

a
s
Fy
7 S
1t
lYYs +'
mayy
4 .
S'  r
rk°


158

HESTER SOMERSET.

'
f
+5
yky
A
i

waved, where hawthorn-hedges divided
the velvet meadows, and the odorous
gardens laughed in the awakening eye
of day, little now is seen but long, long
rows of red-brick domiciles-a wilder
ness of chimney-pots, which discharge
their black or yellow clouds, generated
by inferior "Inland" or Wallsend
coals ; while omnibuses-, rattle along,
and legions of shops-draper, grocer,
and costermonger-stare at the sorrow-
ful muserr from every corner. Alas!
for that once rural suburb-for 'plea-
sant, pleasant Brompton-!
The cottage in which Hester lodged
belonged to a gardener. It- was not
surrounded by trees, for medical men
have an aversion to trees, shutting out
the free air, and breathing at night
pernicious gases into windows ; but it.
stood embosomed among flowers and-
aromatic shrubs. The place was near
to'London, and yet so retired, so still,
so rural, that it well might seem a
hundred miles away.
The afternoon is warm, the air soft
and sweet, as-if breathing over Shak-
speare's " bank of violets."  Hester is
resting on a rustic seat near the porch
of the cottage. Her faithful attendant,
Julie, is also there, for the turnkey's
daughters=now seldom quits her side.
Each has a book in her hand, but they
seem wrapped in their own thoughts,
heeding,not the page over which they.
bend.- The eyes of Julie now wander
across the garden, then along the mea-'
dows beyond, and, lastly, are fixed on
the ,crimson clouds which are begin-
ning -in the west to roll themselves,
around the sinking sun. There is an
expression of simple wonder, and in-
tense adoration, in the young girl's
look, as if she sees in those masses of
gorgeousness and glory the sky-throne
of Nature's:God.; or fancies she looks
through their long vistas of branching
gold into paradise. Hester watches
her, and, as the rays grow -deeper and
richer, their reflection is cast on each,
girl's countenance, on their long, wavy
hair, and on their garments, until they
appear surrounded by an atmosphere
of soft and living'purple.
Heliotropes turning to the sun seemed-
those fair, motionless eings--worship-
pers of the Persian Mithra, praying in
sileice, and mourning that the God-of
Day should number now so few disci-
ples on earth. Hester at length spoke,
to her companion:-

"You admire the scene, Julie. It
does not much resemble the prospect
which, for twenty years, spread before
you within the walls of the Fleet Pri-
soti ?"     1
" No, Miss Somerset ; but I told you
I was once at Hampstead,-and father
said the scene there is the finest in the
world."
i' Then Reuben has been a travel-
ler ?"
"He says so, for he has been at Bar-
net, .at Norwood, at Gravesend, and
even at Margate. I once thought, the
last place was almost at the end of the
world ; but, thanks to your teaching, I
know better now."
"Yes, by reading and by patient
study, Julie, you are advancing won.
derfully.  That mind of yours is a
bright star which has long been ob-
scured by the mists and clouds of igno-
rance ; these fogs are fast passing
away."'
" Would that they were ! but I am
still a poor, ignorant, uncultivated, and
blind being. I feel I was born to serve,
and to look up to another for direction.
I do not understand the feeling that
prompts some to elevate themselves
above their fellow-creatures. Ambition
seems to me a curse rather than a no-
ble passion -of the mind. My happi-
ness has been, and I trust long will be,
to wait on and serve you."
"Now, Julie, you are- most obsti-
nate. I tell you again, you are not my
servant, but my companion and friend.
For your care of me, and your unwea-
ried attention during my late illness, I
owe you a debt I shall never be- able to
discharge. Listen to me. ' Shall we
henceforth live entirely together, toil
on together, and assist each other in
buffeting the assaults of fortune-sworn
friends in good and evil ?"
." That is too much to hope, far too
much for me to expect. Your proposal
overwhelms me with happiness, and-yet
fills me with sorrow-sorrow, because
I am so unworthy of your regard."
.." Dear Julie," said Hester, " you are
all I ask, all I desire in a friend.-
Would that a nearer tie than friend-
ship's existed between us !"
"A  nearer tie ?-you must mea,
then, that of a cousin or a sister ; such
a thing to me would be strange, yet in-
expressibly delightful, for I have no re-
lation in the world but my father and
mother."

HESTER       SOMERSET.
The turnkey's daughter looked with light of the ey
a loving smile into 'Hester's face. Was mental and phyi
there an electric chain of sympathy recent illness le
binding together the two gentlhyspirits ? cept that her fig'
Did that mysterious affinity exist be- degree, thinner t
tween them, known sometimes to those were her thoug
proceeding from the same stock'? How- To her old andc
ever this might be, they gazed and fecting her father
gazed in silence, and, drawing nearer, then, her unavai
clung, at last, into a close embrace.  numerous misf
The round glowing orb of the sun hopes, or crush
rested on the horizon, and, through the mental qus
the softening golden haze, the eye Hester's nature]
could follow its course. The farewell ly of the masc
rays rested on the summit of the old essentially Eng
church tower across the meadows; yield to difficult
they played around the tall graceful evade or overcoi
poplars, whose leaves glistened and   A great caus
trembled as with delight;. and they that, during hei
lingeredlovingly among the autumnal compelled to liv
roses, and kissed each smaller flower and thus her s
into sleep, the odors of which were diminished.
breathing, like the sweet voluptuous now ?" was th
sighs of gathering fairies, around those urged itself upoi
two lovely forms.                   pursue ?" The
The golden globe dipped down; its school was opp
upper rim flashed and shot corus- that, wherever
cations, like arrows of fire, in its in- Pike would still
tense departing glory-lower and low- fecting its ruin
er yet-one. burning point---it disap- man, as regarde
peared at last.                     was like a cons
. Love on, dream on, gentle spirits! tween herself an
The stars, as they are slowly distilled shed a witherin
from heavenin drops of liquid silver, object-cherished
are not brighter than your bright sign, but would
thoughts; the stainless azure of the execution ? Sh
deep sky is not purer than your pure alas ! would he n
natures. Oh! where shall we find a down?
type of holy innocence, of perfect It was while
mental beauty unmixed with -guile,orgcertain state, m
all that approaches nearest to, the but adopting no
divine nature of the mysterious unseen ing on the old ri
One, the reflex of whose shadow we garden at Bros
are-where, if not in the breast .of request of Juli
woman, in that soft spring-time of life often she exerce
when the affections are fresh as new- been taught to b
born flowers, and the wings of passion out power, comj
and earth's more sordid feelings have sweetness, howe
cast no blight on her path?         able quality it
the secret, chor
could deny. TI
words were as ft
CHAPTER XV.
HESTER's 5SON
THE MUSICAL COMPOSER.           Remember me, w
Laugh in sweet
THE young are soon prostrated by     when fairies quit
sickness, but nature has kindly or-     In which they'
dained that,' when convalescent, they  remember me, w
shall as sneedily recover. With the raint with ric
b  7                  Andbirds pour S
renewed hioom of the cheek, and the     And Nature, hb

159-
ye, Hester's energies,
sical, returned, and her
ft no visible trace, ex-
ure seemed, in a slight
han formerly. To what
;hts again- dedicated ?
cherished design of ef-
er's freedom. Had not,
ling struggles, and her
ortunes, clouded her
ed her spirityet?  In
ality of perseverance,
partook,perhaps, large-
nline ; at least, it was
lish ; she would never
ies, but hoped either to
me them.
e of regret to her was
r illness, she had been
'e on her little capital,
savings had been much
What should she do
e grand question that
n her-" what new path
idea of reopening a
osed by the conviction
she might establish it,
have the means of ef-
n. The image of this
d her efforts and plans,
taut cloud passing be-
id the sun ; the shadow
and a mildewon every
by her. She might de-
d he not prevent the
e might build up, but,
Lot more speedily throw
continuing in this un-
using on many plans,
ne, that, listlessly lean-
ustic bench in the little
npton, Hester, at the
e, sang a song._ Not
ised her voice, having
believe it inferior, with-
pass, or flexibility: its
ver, and the indescrib-
possessed of touching
ds other heart, none
he air was simple ; the
follow
G-" REMEMBER ME."
hen hill and dell
Morning's rosy light;
I the liby'sbtell,
ve slumbered all the night
rhen dying Day
Ii hues the gorgeous weat,
north a softer lay,
abe-like, sinks to rest.

ve                                                                            v-, pq          rye                                            )                7 i                                                             ..                    ,  v.

I


16Q

HESTER SOMERSET.

Remember me, when stars unclose
Their golden lattices on high,
To watch, like angels, Earth's repose,
And soften Sorrow's tear and sigh.
For oh! my heart can ne'er forget
The joyous days of life's sweet prime;,
The rose of Memory bloometh yet,
Unseared hy grief, undimmed by time.
Lands, seas, our lots may severwide,
In fancy's dresm I'm still with thee, r
Unchanged, still thine, whate'er betide-
Repay my truth, remember me!
how often are trifles, or what appear
to be accidents, followed by important
results i ,While Hester had been sing-
ing, and, in the fervor of the moment,
singing, perhaps,, with a greater degree
of pathos and power than she had dis-
played on any former occasion, a gen-
tleman, walking in the. path beyond
the garden,,might have been observed
to stop. He was listening attentively.
A  hedge of prickly holly completely
screened him from the viewof the two
companions. ' As Hester proceeded, he
appeared fascinated and struck, while
an approving smile, such as a connois-
seur, when pleased, betrays, lit up his
countenance.    Creeping  under the
hedge, the stranger drew   nearer to
the songstress; and when     she had
finished her warbling notes, that had
seemed to thrill the air, as if poured
forth by some spirit of the flowers, the
charmed listener stood motionless and
thoughtful.  Yet he speedily formed
a resolution, for he entered the garden
gate,;and, advanced without ceremony
to the bench where Hester and Julie
sat.,
He was a man :above sixty years of
age, of the middle height, and dressed
in black: his appearance was gentle-
manly, and his countenance singularly
mild and prepossessing. As-he ap-
proached, he slightly lifted his hat.
"I have to beg athousand pardons,"
he said, looking at Hester, "for the
liberty which Itake in accosting you;
but fear and surprise must be my
pleas:  fear that, since you   are a
stranger, remaining'at Bronpton pro-
bably but a short time, I may not see
you again-and surprise at what I
have this moment heard._ Do not be
angry with me, my dear young lady;
as you perceiveI am an old ,man with
a white head, and. am.more suited to
act the father than to playthe lover."
The gentleman smiled so benevo-
lently, that Hester felt her heart warm
towards him.         -

"That is my house yonder among
the trees, and I have .occupied it now
thirty years. I have a wife and three
daughters-my name is---"
Hester started.
What ! sir, have I the honor to be
addressed by the great composer and
professor of music of that name ?-a
name long familiar to me ? '
The gentleman, whom we shall call
Kellerman, again smiled.
" Not great, but little-a gleaner in
the wide field of art, after the renowned
masters who have preceded me. But
if I still compose a few bars, I can sing-
no more,; my voice is broken and de-
parted, and yet I am passionately fond
of singing. ,In a word, I am in search
of some voice-some English female
voice, which, by training and tuition,
may eclipse the voices of these foreign
ladies, with whom, to the disgrace of
English art, our country is inundated.
I think," added the professor,. "you
have never appeared in public, for
your face is quite unknown to me.".
"Never," said Hester,,quickly.
" Pardon my presumption--I know
not your position or your prospects in
life ; but should they not be adverse to
my views, then, I believe, judging from
what I have heard, my search is over.",
." I cannot understand you. I am
no singer-I have no voice."
"Forgive me if I differ from you :
the ear that has attended to musical,
sounds for forty years mustneeds have
some quickness of appreciation. A
dozen notes always enable me to judge
hether a voice is worthy of being cul-
tivated.  Allow me, then, to repeat,
my search is over."'
" No, no," said Hester, laughing
outright ; "you must, at least, be mis-
taken here. I have no musical talents
-no strength of lungs, or execution ;
and every person who is acquainted
with me knows it."
But the professor was persevering.
"°I am no idle enthusiast in the art,
my dear young lady-I always form
quiet, unbiased judgments, and I tell
you I am right. But to be very plain
--are your predilections against culti-
vating your natural talent, or would
you bie famous and gain much money?
--the matter rests entirely with your-
self."'
The earnest and serious manner of
Mr. Kellerman fixed Hester's atten-

HESTER SOMERSET;

tion. Surprised, as she might be, she
was compelled to believe him sincere.
" I am willing to improve any poor
talent I may possess ;. but, believe me,
I have no ambition to be famous. If,
however, I thought money could be
gained-"
" To be sure it could. Then you are
desirous of gaining money? You are
too young, I know, to love gold for
its own sake ; but you wish to obtain
a livelihood, perhaps ;-let that neces-
sity act as a spur."
t I want it," said Hester, hesitating-
ly, "not for myself, but my father.
He is unfortunate. -Oh ! if"I could
get money-that is, sufficient -he
would be happy again.'
Mr. Kellerman seemed to read a tale
in the expressive countenance of the
speaker, for he regarded her thought-
fully for several minutes.
"Not ffe worlds," he said, at length,
"would I pry into your domestic af-
fairs ; but perhaps your father is in
embarrassed circumstances ?"
"He is," said Hester-" he is more
than embarrassed, sir-he is in pri-
son."
"For child-poor gentleman !" said
the professor. " And can no one as-
sist him ?"
" His only relative persecutes him,
and they who were his friends con-
.sider his misfortunes deserved, for he
lost his property in speculation; so-no
one will help him in the hour of need.
havee been endeavoring to 'do some-
thing-yet, shame on me ! during six
years; I have saved little or nothing.
True, I have had my misfortunes---the
will is strong, but the hand is weak."
"You are a good child, and a dutiful
daughter ; but what can you possibly
do'? No doubt the sum for which he
is detained is large."
"It is," said Hester..
"Many thousands ?"
"No; about five hundred pounds."
Mr. Kellerman smiled.
"Upon my word," he exclaimed,-
"sad is the existing state of the law,
which suffers a gentleman to be de-
prived of his"liberty for years on ac-
count of-such a paltry sum."
Hester stared. The sum, to her, by
brooding over it, and .dreaming of it,
had become of fearful magnitude.
"A paltry amount,, I say--that is,-
speaking comparatively.  Why, my
dear young lady, if I -did not think, in

161

one year, you could gain double as
much by the, exercise of your voice,
never should I advise you to cultivate
it."
"Oh! impossible-you ,dream,;. the.
very thought of such a thing fills my
heart with delight."
"Then be guided by me; consent to
study and practise under my tuition.
Your advance, I am persuaded, will be
rapid."
" How long do you imagine it would
be necessary for me to remain as your
pupil?"
" That entirely depends on your ca-
pabilities-probably fifteen months, or
it may be two years."
Hester shook her head, and her
happy smile vanished.
"I thank you, sir; but it will not do.
Even if I possessed talents - a very
questionable thing-I could not neglect
other duties, and means of "gaining a
livelihood,. during that protracted pe-
riod. The truth is, I have to support
myself, and make a small allowance to
my father in prison."
The professor paused, his eyes being
fixed in an absent manner on the
ground.
" I see, I see ; by working honestly
together, we shall be mutual gainers.
Listen to me. We can easily over-
come the difficulty you name, for dur-
ing the time of your tuition I. will al-
low you a maintenance. Stay, cease,
your surprise; I am not so generous,.
as you imagine. In return for my out-
lay, I should expect you to enter into.
a certain compact--that is, agreement
to pay me, for two years after your
dd bt, one-half of the proceeds arising
from the exercise of your art."
Hester knew not what to answer.
Her whole communication with this
musical professor had been so, brief
and extraordinary, and the ideas and
expectations he entertained appeared
to her so unwarranted and extrava-
gant, that she- was bewildered, and
believed him half a madman.. On the
other hand, his fame in the world had
been so long 'established, while his
manner to her was so kind, that she
could not doubt his abilities or sincer-
ity, nor help feeling greatly interested
in his proposals. She begged him,
however, to grant her time for reflec-
tion, and chiefly, she was desirous of
askiig the advice of her father.
'-Dy all means," said Mr. Keller-

Now
w    ea

' t-ti


- s.-'

A

U

162

HESTER SOMERSET.

man. ;"Never would I persuade a
child to enter on any course contrary
to the wishes of her parents There-
fore consult your father. Yet I trust
you will- become my pupil, sing, en-
chant thousands, and obtain ten times
the amount necessary to liberate your,
father from prison."
Then the celebrated composer and
musician bowed, and quitted the gar-
den, leaving Hester and Julie to their
own meditations.

CHAPTER XVI.

A DISCOVERY.

Mn. SOMERSET at first expressed -a
great objection to Mr.-Kellerman's pro-
posal.  Family pride, or, it may be
termed by some, prejudice, was not ex-
tinct in his breast ; and the idea that
his: daughter should study an art which
would unavoidably bring her before
the- public, much galled him. .-But
what trials had she not already gone
through ?-what indignities had she-
not suffered?. And when Hester re-
presented the possibility, although she
doubted it in her heart, that this one
project might free them from their
persecutors, and all their sorrows ; and
when Mr. Kellerman himself assured
him how certainly Hester would com-
mand success, and how easily obtain
the money required, the proud man
considered it his duty to yield. Ac-
cordingly, he consigned his daughter to
the care of the venerable professor,=the
man who had recognized in her what
others'had failed to discover; and what-
ever the result might be, he would be
resigned and patient.
Hester commenced her lessons with
little confidence, and less hope; but as
the training of her voice, and its deve-
lopment,-proceeded, her natural cour-
age arose, and she resolved to conquer
difficulties by assiduity and painstak-
ing. The master never doubted her
genius, but the pupil continued blind
to it. The problem  remained to be
solved. Hester, however, was not so
much engrossed by her studies but that
she found time daily to visit the Fleet
Prison. Julie resided constantly with
her; but far from being a burden, the
turnkey's daughter more then earned
her own living by the exercise of her
needle. But we must here describe a'

scene whichoccurred not long afteriHes-
terhad entered upon hermusical career
"Julie," she said one morning, "I
must take you to -the prison to-day ex-
pressly to see my father."
" What can a gentleman like him
care about me ?" observed the turnkey's
daughter, as her hands were busily en
gagedinbraiding her companion's hair.
" He tells me that he has never yet
spoken to you, or properly seen you;
for when he used to come to Wardrobe
place, during my illness, his -eyes and
his whole attention, dear man, were
directed to my poor self."
"That is true ; he never, I believe,
even glanced at me when in the room;
and very natural it was, considering his
daughter's situation."
1" Well, he wishes now to return you
his sincere thanks for all your kindness,
to me. Let us go.
"I want no thanks.   Stay, I have
not yet finished your hair."
And still the girl's fingers twined the
silky and'glittering threads, until, her
task being completed, she wound the
mass round and round, coiling it up
at the back of Hester's head, where,
fastened by a pin, it looked like a
beautiful serpent asleep in the sun.
" We must, and we will go now,"
repeated Hester.
Julie obeyed, and the two proceeded
together to the Fleet Prison.
So often had the turnkeys and other;
inmates seen the gentle, unobtrusive
figure of Mr. Somerset's daughter pass.
along the lobbies and steal across the
yard, that they began to regard her ap-,
pearance  almost as natural as the re-.
volving days, while it was as expected
too. Not one of the 'well-disposed but
felt an interest in her; not one but
would offer her a kindly greeting : even
the coarse and the callous refrained
their jest, and never insulted her-
proof that virtue can make itself re-
spected even among the profligate; and
that filial affection and duty are regard-
ed as beautiful things-by those to whom
the - domestic virtues themselves are
practically unknown.
" Let me be at least your attendant,
your servant here," said Julie, t'What
will the people of the prison say if I
talk with you familiarly? I would not
that Mr.~Somerset should think me as-
suming or forward';
And the girl dropped Hester's hand,
and walked behind her. In a few

HESTER SOM ERS E T.

163

minutes, they reached the, door of Mr. length. 1Explain to us why you are
Somerset's apartment.  The ruined thus affected."
gentleman rose from his chair, and his  Mr. Somerset again rose.
thoughtful countenance was lit up by a  " I am striving : to collect myself,"
smile of welcome.                he said, drawing his hand across his
" Then you have brought to me forehead. " I am.not mad, dearHester,
Reuben's daughter at last, my: dear although I'appear to be so. Bear with
Hester. Happy I am to-see her."'    me: you know not what is struggling
Julie courtesied, standing at some in my breast.' That girl-^" he'ex-
distance, and Mr. Somerset put to her claimed-" whom you call Julie---"
a question which she readily answered.  "I will leave you, if you please:
Her words seemed to have on him an perhaps I have done something to of-
extraordinary effect, for he turned fend you."
around, looking at the door which stood  " Stay ! I command you 1" He' drew
ajar, as if the voices like that of a ven- her farther into the room. "There, I
triloquist, had proceeded from some' will be calm: Hester, stand by the side
other quarter.                     of your companion - uncover your
"Hester," he 'said; his face pale, heads-please me in-this."
while a tremor was visible in his limbs,  They obeyed him. Hester, with her
"she is not outside:? Surely, you have taller and more elegant form, and Julie,
notbrought -her with you? No, no, with: her pretty sylphlike figure, stood
that is impossible."       ;       opposite the scrutinizer. Their beau-
"Father, I do not know what you tiful hair was of the same shade, their
mean."                              eyes were of the same color ;but, more
" Oh I'it was only a fancy-a passing than all, their faces, 'in their sweet, in-
fancy; j perceive now it was the young describable expression, bore that ex-
woman who spoke. What could make traordinary similarity to each other
me imagine-and yet ' those tones so which we sometimes remark in twins.
like-Stay 1" he added, with energy, Mr. Somerset, his hands shading his
addressing Julie, "you stand in the eyes, regarded them in deep silence.
shade-open the door-I am doomed,.I   "I understand now, father - you
believe, to be the sport of dreams and think us alike. This has been remarked
fancies."'     -       ,,before."
The light fell upon the face of Julie,  " And yet you never named it to me,"
and Mr. Somerset gazed attentively on said -Mr. Somerset, in a choking tone.
her. At first, his eyes expressed little  "I did not think it worth while to
beyond a strange curiosity; gradually trouble you."
they opened, staring with surprise, :" Ah1,I remember," he, said, speak-
while almost unconsciously he moved ing apparently to himself, " poor Isa-
nearer and nearer to the object of his bella told me of something a hundred
regard.                            times-let me-"      He approached
"Who are you, girl ?" he exclaimed Julie, but again stepped back.  "No,
abruptly.. "I have seen. you before, I have not courage-pshaw-1 after 'all,
"   but have not observed your counte- it may be a dream-yes, I will believe
nance."                            it a dream-but if this - this mark
"Reuben's daughter, if you please, should correspond    Hester," he
sir," answered Julie, half alarmed.  said aloud, "draw up ;the sleeve of
" Ha ! that voice again," said Mr. Julie's dress--the left 'atm-do you
Somei-set, seizing her by the-arm ; but see anything just' above the elbow ?"
he instantly let it-go. " Forgive me;  "Father I" cried Hester, running up
my mind is disturbed; ideas I can to him breathlessly, for he had kept
scarcely account for rise within me."  aloof, covering his face, " what do you
He stepped back and seated himself mean by this ? How should you know
on a chair; crossing his arms,. his that a mark is there? But you are
head drooped on his breast, ant he ap- right; there is a mole above the elbow.
feared to sink -into profound thought. I am beginning, like yourself, to enter-
Hester and Julie were struck dumb tain an extraordinary idea."
with wonder ; they could only gaze on  " Girl-Julie-Blanche !" said Mr;
the singularly perturbed man before Somerset, with a desperate effort at
them, and then at each other.       calmness, f'is Reuben in the prison ?'A
'Speak, father !" said Hester at "Yes, father is, sir."

A

sa
Mn
.
,t
: +

4


164

HESTER SOMERSET.

" Call him, I pray you-call him in- and I, somehow, took a liking to the-
stantly 1"                         ehild, and having none ourselves, we
When the honest turnkey appeared, resolved to rear this poor come-by-
he was not a little alarmed at the agi- chance, or foundling, as they say, for
nation manifested both by Hester and our own. Of course, the parish was glad,
her father ;,and'when-the latter abrupt- to be rid of the burden; so we brought
ly asked him where his daughter was the child up, and named her July,
born, and in what church she was because found in that month, though
christened, he:stammered and made no others have always called her Julie."
distinct answer.                     "I am satisfied-a thousand thanks.
"Tell me plainly, good Reuben," are due to you," said Mr. Somerset,
cried Mr. Somerset; "is thatgirl yonder wringing fervently Reuben's hand.
your own child'?"                    The turnkey stared, being at a loss
-" Of course I am," interrupted Julie. to conceive why the gentleman should
"Why, sir, do you see," said Reuben, be so warm in his expressions of obli-,
at length, ,I hope I've done nothing gation to him.
wrong, but, to say truth, my wife never  "I've only done my duty, sir, and as
had any children. Poor girl-poor little long as I live, and have a penny in my
July, I kept the matter a secret from  pocket, the dear young woman shall
you, thinking it might distress you to never want a crust."
learn you had no father or mother'; but  "You have been indeed a father to
,since this gentleman seems to under- her," observed Mr. Somerset, "and
stand something about you, the truth she- must love you deeply and truly,
had best be told."                 as you deserve. But I trust," he con-
"Have I no father, no mother?" tinned,, with a tremulous voice, look-
eried Julie, in a tone of bitter distress. ing ardently , at Julie-"I trust she
"Then I shall be doubly alone and will be able to love me a little also."
desolate in the world!"              "I do love you, sir!l" cried Julie,
"Who is she, Reuben?" demanded with her usual sweet simplicity; "you
Mr. Somerset. "How came she into are the father of Miss Hester, and that.
your hands?. I implore, I adjure you alone makes you dear to me."_
to .tell me.'                        "Bless you, poor child!" said the,
"I can't guess why you wish to old gentleman, struggling with the
know," observed the turnkey;- "but feelings which 'evidently were over-
though-July, as I suspect, is the child powering him. "Oh! 'would that Isar
of some poor creature who' wished to bells were here, and could understand!
conceal her shame from the world, she -would she could share with me this
has been. a. good girl to ' me, and I moment of supreme happiness !"
don't want to lose her."             "Father!" cried Hester, her cheek
"No, do not cast -me from you!" flushing, and her heart throbbing with
cried Julie, clinging to Reuben's .arm. a rapture strange as new,-"you cannot-
"You are my father-I will not believe name the word, but I will. Alli's now.
anything  beside- do not. send me' plain to me, as it is evident to you..
away !"                            That mysterious tie, which. seemed at
"Poor thing!" said the turnkey, the first to draw Julie and myself to-
looking down upon her, and smooth- gether, is now fully accounted for: the
ing her brighthair caressingly. "Poor likeness too, the mark which my poor
little girl !-you see she loves me, Mr. mother often told me of, and Reuben's
Somerset, -No, no, don't fear, July; tale-all are alike convincing, and
I'll be a father:to you still. But this, banish every doubt. Julie!" she add-
sir, ,is the truth.- Long, long ago,,one ed, in a voice- broken and quivering
night-'twas twelve o'clock--as I was with emotion, taking her. hand,. and
barring the prison- gate for the last pointing at Mr. Somerset, "that man
time, I-thought I-heard a feeble cry. -that dear unfortunate gentleman, is
Thecry was repeated again and again, your father, and I-I am your sister!"
so, opening the- gate, close outside  -'ester, as she spoke the last words,
on, the ground I saw -a.basket.  It rushedinto Julie's arms.  The two
contained an infant. I took it in, as fond girls had often embraced before,
I thought it my duty tot do, meaning but never with the feelings they cx-
the next day to acquaint the parish perienced now. The newly-discovered
authorities with the fact. -But my wife tie between them, awoke their most im-

,HESTER SOMERSET-

assioned, their holiest .sympathie
Love was speaking in their tears, an
breathing in their sighs. Two sister
had-they been, living together, serving
each other, yet all the while Sknowin
nothingof their relationship. And there
they, embraced and wept,- and drev
back and embraced again; while Mr
Somerset, leaning over them, was un
able to give utterance to the emotion
that melted his heart; his poverty, hi
un       arisonment, were that m
ment nfel andforgtten

CHAPTER XVII.

HESTER MAKES-HER DEBUT AS A SINGER
FRoM what we know of the character
of Hester, we shall not doubt that she
studied very diligently under the inusi
cal professor. The more brief the term
of her tuition, or initiation into th(
mysteries of the art of song, the more
speedily would her object be accom
Polished, or,. at least, her fate decided
Mr. 'Kellerman, himself, was surprised
at the, progress which she made. He
felt assured of her ability, and of the
excellence of the voice with which Na-
ture hadendowedher; butknowinghow
fluctuating a thing is public taste, and
how fashion, the whim  of the hour,
sweeps all before it, he could not gua-
rantee for her that triumph which
others, far less gifted, have achieved.
At the earnest request of Mr. Somer-
set, Hester was to assume another
name ; hence heA identity, when she
might appear before the public, would
not be discovered. She had resolved,
too, never to sing on the stage, but to
confine herself to the concert-room.
Time passed. Week after week, and
month after month, did Hester practise
and toil. She spent hours daily with
the venerable professor; and when by
herself, the poor;songstress.would-shut
herself in her room, warbling, those
notes which she hoped, ere long, might
avail to melt away the iron bonds-of
her father's captivity. . -
The chorister of the green-wood sings,
amuse himself, and give vent to the
exuberant joy of his swelling heart.
The cantatrice of theopera burns-for
fame,.or her every note is a sordid one,
exchanged for, a coin-money that is
to minister perhaps to her own gratifi-
cation and luxuries. But neither for

165

s. amusement, fame,' nor' self-aggrandize-
d meant, did the young pupil of Keller-
's man pour from her dulcet throat the
g magic of sweet sounds. She dreaded
g notoriety, shrank from  popular-ap-
e plause, and the thoughts of her ap-
w preaching debt filled her ,heart with a
. fear little short of any agony. Yet ies-
i- ter felt that, having entered upon the
s undertaking, the terrible trial must be
s gone through.
-   It -cane at last-the day on which
she was to make her appearance-the
day when she should be rewarded for
her long and unremitted studies, !or,
meeting with no. success, be thrown
back again on her-own resources, her
. time lost,: and farther than ever from
the goal of her hopes and wishes.
r   The occasion was a grand concert of
e sacred music, to be held- at Willis's
- Rooms. The projector Wasthe veteran
Kellerman, and one of the pieces to be
e performed was Handel's "Messiah?
It being the height of the London sea-
- son, the concert, it was expected, would
. be very fully and fashionably attended.
Hester proceeded in a.carriage -from
Brompton, accompanied by Mr.:Keller-
man and his three daughters. Pale
she was and agitated; but very differ-
ent were her feelings from those she
experienced  two , years previously,
when,.entrapped by-the snares of Pike
and the hunchback, Flemming, she was-
to be carried to a concert which existed
only in the imaginations of those men;
The company was assembling. There
was a rapid whirling of carriages into
King-street, a great letting-down of
steps, and slamming of carriage-doors
there was a mighty rushing to and fro
of powdered footmen .with gilt staves,
and. as confusion; was caused by the
darkness, vehicle jostling against vehi-
cle, coachmen were heard to swear on
their broad hammer-cloths, while.the
pushing and shoutingrof policemen,
who -were very zealous in  endeavoring
to restore order, had only the effect=of
increasing the excitement and hubbub
in a tenfold degree.
Within 'the building; there were
chandeliers casting a brilliant light on
plumes, turbans, and-an indescribable
variety of jewels..Men were there,
critics, connoisseurs;, the Aristarchs 'of
music, and men who, pretending to be
no judges, could judge the best. Old
dowagers and young beauties-chape-
rons andprotdgles-the-rich plain heir-

h
ism
E
f,
r
r
r
h
w
Y ;"'333
i
i~

l


HESTER "SOMERSET.

HESTER SOMEfRSE T.

ess the penniless beautiful maiden-the was whispered  through  the room.
lordl mayor's lady, and the lady hose " Who is this lady? and how will she
family had been noble since the Con- get on. with it?" were questions asked
nquest-these formed the staple of the by ox e of the others
assembly; and all considered themselves Hester'appeared; her modesty, her
the chief of England's "gay select," timidity, her unadorned classic beauty,
very refined, very much td be envied, immediately -aised a feeling in her fa-
and withal very happy.             vor. But she advanced with dificulty,
Stealing in through the throng, and for her heart palpitated, and her limbs
placing himself as near the performers trembled with that agitation almost in-
ns possible, one gentleman might have separable from a first, appearance' be-
been observed whose claims to aristo- fore a public audience. A kind en-
cratic birth were very questionable, eouraging whisper from the old profes-
inasmuch as no one there seemed to sor, and an anxious, smiling glance
know him. He was a little active man, from Julie, who sat near, failed to re-
with red hair, and remarkably brilliant assure her; and now, too,.that little-man
eyes; his black coat and pantaloons with the red hair and stiff, white neck-
were rather wornbut, if the truth must erchief was observed to lean forward,
be told, they had received that day an and fix upon the debutante his black,
ample 'wash of "black reviver ;" his glittering eyes ; -they had an evil and
little white neckerchief was freshly fascinating glare, like the eyes of the
starched, and lhe * had on-borrowed rattlesnake. Whoever he might be, it
probably for the occasion--a pair of was evident that Hester saw him, for
white kid gloves.- He sat quietly taking her chee!k grew ashy pale, while a
snuff, and looked very profound and shiver ran through her frame.
knowing, sothat people -at length con-  " Even here-driven, as she is, to
sidered him some great critic.     her last resource-is he come, stealthy
The mu'sicianahad taken their places, demon ! to bar her from success, and
and futes, bassoons, trumpets, drums, blight her hopes-bitter,aurelenting
and not-to-be-counted  violins, were persecutor!" -,Such were the thoughts
ready to commence the full crash of which passed through Hester's mind ;
harmony-the thunder of sublime but a reaction will sometimes take
sounds. There, elevated :above the place when our spirits are most -de-
band, like Prospero surrounded by his pressed.  Though paralyzed for the -
subject spirits, sat the leader, old Mr. moment, pride and courage -awoke in
Kellerman, and his ministers anxiously the breast of Somerset's daughter; and,
awaited the first wave of  his magical strange ,to say, the. very knowledge of
wand.                              her enemy's presence bore her up, and
It commenced-the "Messiah" was gave vigor to: her, nerves. The weak
performed, and with that applause girl as resolved to defy him, and to
which usually awaits Handel's master- triumph in spite of-his foulendeavors to
piece. But Hester took no part in the crush her.
oratorio.  The young debactante was to  And now theyoung singer commenc-
make trial of her powers in an origi- ed the. solo in Kellerman's - original
nal, conposition-that composition was piece ; but, alas ! after the first few
an anthem by the professor himself, warbled notes, the woman's nature re-
and it contained a long solo part turned, and, shrinking into herself be-
designed expressly for Hester.  Oh, fore that-large assembly, her voice
how often had she practised'it !I-each shook and quivered, and was fast dying
bar, each note,-had=shestudied, day away into a mere thread. The profes-
after day;'anxious too, was.she- to do sor who endeavored to catch=her eye,
justice to the genius of her benevolent was nervous and uneasy ; not only did -
master, who hadbestowed much pains he consider that the success of-his an-
on the compOsition. Everything that them entirely depended upon Hester,
Kellerman-produced-was sure to corn- but he felt extreme interest in her in-
mand attention; and the fact that: the dividually. She was his esteemed pu-
weight of his new performance devolved pil; he had:persuaded her to: embrace,
on a  lady entirely :unknown wasp a the profession,-and had filled her heart
proof that he, at least,entertained a with the brightest hopes. And must
high-opinion-of her-capabilities,   the concert which was to crown her
Hush! Kellermanapannew anthem I" with fame 'bring only-defeat and ruin ?

Up sprang Mr. Pike, and, in his as-
sumed critical capacity, looked an :ap-
peal to, those around. . It was not a
theatre, so he dared not- hiss, but he
ventured to whisper to those nearest
him, " Gentlemen, we are insulted--
this is not the young lady who was to
make her ddft. I know her--she's an
impostor-she can't sing. I tell you,
we are insulted I"
" Hush " said several voices at once.
Mr. Pike, careful not to proceed too
far, again seated himself.
Hester, at. this critical juncture,
-gainedher self-possession. She thought
no more of Pike, but the idea of hin
gave place to the image of her father;
she saw the latter in prison, and felt
how his future lot, his liberty, his hap-
piness,-hung, as it :were,. on that mo-
nent. Holy as powerful was the feel-
ing that now sustained her ; her voice
was no longer uncertain ; every note
was distinct and perfect, from)the low-
est that died away like the scarcely,
audible murmur of the harp of Al.olus,
to the highest that filled the room.,
The solo-was but-half completed when
Hester thus obtained the full command
of her voice. The audience was now
convinced that Kellerman's pupil was
worthy to undertake the arduous task
assigned her. There:was a continuous
stream of under melody, each birdlike
note gushing full as the nightingale's,
yet rich.as the tones of4he flute. Anon,
where the anthem required, the-voice
broke forth with solemn cadence and
sublime power; and it was truly won-
derful that a frame so small could send'
forth such a volume of sound. A note
'of thrilling power, sustained.for an en-
tire minute, took the audience by sur-I
prise; and few present, except some oft
the elder ones who remembered Cata-
lani, had ever heard it equalled.
How glowed the-eye now of the 1
white-headed Kellerman; as he-lookedg
around him with an air of triumph!
"I said she 'could sing, and I knew it I"t
were the words expressed by his mean-t
ing looks., But hushed; was theassemn--
bly';: not a-whisper was breathed ; for t
each seemed wrapped in admiration of'
the anthem, and to hang spellbound 1
on the lips of-the youngmsinger.    t
Hester finishedSher part at length, v
and stepped modestly back. .:Then feel- b
ings, long- repressed; gave themselves t
vent,: and, like &amp;pent-up whirlwind,'the t
applause burst-foilr;not a few decorous 1

rounds, but shout upon shout, each
person vying with the other who should
applaud the loudest. One voice only
was heard in- dissent; it proceeded
from the critic with red hair.
"She is no singer-she can't sing!"
vociferated Mr. Pike; 'she is an i.m-
potor--I tell you her voice is execra-
ble !"
But a-gentleman who wa near seiz-
ed him  by the " black-revived" coat,
which, from1its rottenness,.threatened
to part in his hands.
"You are no critic, but an enemy, I
perceive now," said the gentleman; "I
command you to be silent, if you would
not be choked l"
-Then .the' applause was renewed.
Three cheers also,-were given for the
composer, Kellerman, whose well-earn-
ed fame was thus enhanced by the suc-
cessful efforts of his pupil.. Hester re-
tired, followed by the good wishes and
admiration of all; but, flattered as she
could not help feeling, one thought was
uppermost in her bosom, and,' in her
excitement, covering her~face. with'her
hands, she murmured,
"Kind fortune, I thank you! Now,
perhaps, the task will no lorigermbe im-
possible-now I may, indeed, be, en-
abled to gain the sum that shall setmy
father at liberty."
CHAPTER XVII.
THE SINGER'S SUCCESS--THE EQUANIMITY
OF MR. PIKE IS DISTURBED.
M. KELLERMAN, as well as being a
proficient in his:prt, was acquainted
with the world and humanmnature. He
had promptly judged of Hester's capa-
bilities, and judged correctly; he had
prophesied, and .his prophecy had be-
gun to be fulfilled. In England, as
elsewhere, he knew that success, ob-
ained one day.usually.insures success
henext; that fashion:isethegeat lever
which moves the mass of society;-and
hat people 'will open theirpurses
whenever any distinguished-neighbor
heads the example,He had calculated
hathis pupil,once considered "star,"
would be.oterei large: sums to sing
oth in'London and the-provinces:; and
hus Kellerman, receiving one-half of
he proceedsmassagreed, would be treb-
y paid for his previous outlay.

rJ i
,  ,
r. a
4
L
nth
r gxir1
J' nY
a .
t
K
rf'i .

"AAA

'167

16

u
I
c4}:

I'

" =  ," '


168

HESTER SOMERSET.

The professor was right.' Hester,
under the name she has assumed,
weekly, almost daily, increased her ce-
lebrity.. She was eagerly sought after
by the projectors of concerts; and the
town being full, large audiences were,
generally insured. The young singer
became the rage, and not to admire her
was considered bad taste. The result
may be anticipated ; at the end of four
months, when the London season clos-
ed, the delighted Hester found her por-
tion of the receipts to amount to no less
a sum than five hundred and twenty
pounds.
Oh, blissful realization of the fond
daughter's far-stretching dreams! After
all her toils, her privations, her disap-
pointments, her persecutions, is the-
prize won-is the triumph achieved at
last?
But we must direct attention to ano-
ther character in our history. Mr. Pike
was walking to and fro in his office ;
his manner was greatly disturbed ; a
scowl sat on his brow, and every now
'and then he muttered an oath.
"What! the girl found-recognized-
proved to be his daughter? Would I had
-sent its tiny spirit, to heaven, instead
of dropping the child at the prison
gate ! Hartley is incensed-I know he
is; he blames me for want of precau-
tion, and I may lose my annuity-yes,
my . annuity-my three hundred a
year-ten thousand furies I",
The miser, in anticipation of this
falling off of his annual stipend, which
hitherto had been punctually-paid him
by Mr:. Hartley, grew  furious ; he
groaned, and struck his forehead with
his clenched hand.
"Then,too, this persevering, obsti-
nate, and miserable girl-is not her
conduct enough to exasperate the mild-
est spirit? -But that rascally music-
master has been her chief assistant in
the business; he first brought her into,
notice, and raised a current too- strong
for me to.oppose. Ha,-the-villain !"
cried-Pike,grinding 'his teeth;. " what
would I give to see him: dangling at a
rope's end in the Old Bailey!- They are
all getting g=the better--of-Hartley and
me-Hartley, I tiemble to meethim-
I dread to hear him say,'Pike,=1 must
now stop your: salary. Oh, my three
hundred a year i-whatewill become of
ine in my old' age? Pshaw! that-fif-
teen thousand which I have-in Consols,
I won't think of it-'tis nothing ; I

shall lose my annuity-I shall be a
beggar, ruined-undone I"
In the paroxysm of his distress, he
struck his bony hands together, and
tore his red hair. He then cast his
empty purse upon the ground, type of
himself and his dreaded expected po-
verty,
Mr. Pike was standing gazing on the
purse, and ruefully shaking his head,
when Hartley, dispensing with the
usual ceremony of knocking, opened
the door and walked in. The Templar
was' not in a passion-as far as the fea-
tures may be considered the index of
the mind, he was calm; but there is a
thoughtful,-quiet bitterness, a subdued
anger, as fearful in their effects as the
choler which breaks forth like the un-
ruly tempest. Hartley fixed his eyes
on the little attorney without speak-
ing; the latter quailed and shrank, in-
stinctively looking up, while his knees
knocked each other..
" No bad news-no worse intelli-
gence, I hope, Mr. Hartley ?" said
Pike, stooping still lower.
"Yes," was the monosyllable.
"Why, they surely have not disco-
vered that we were the purloiners of
that child, now a woman ? Oh, no, it
is-impossible !"
"Let that matter rest; it is a' bad
affair,' and your doing."
"My doing, good Mr. Hartley?"
"Yes, sir; 'you have been outwitted.
You played the fool; instead of trans-
acting my business properly."'
"-Say not so, dear sir," whispered
Mr. Pike, in a tremulous tone. "My
whole study has been-and still shall
be-to serve, you, and carry out your
wishes."
"That- young woman ought never to
have been restored to her family; you
should have found her in the Fleet, and
lured her away;anywhere-even to her
grave-rather than have suffered such
a discovery to take place. But let the
matter rest; I :repeat.  The greatest
-triumph-of our enemies is in reserve.
Fool!,what hast thou.been doing ?'how
hast thou tamely permitted this- mise-
rable child of Somerset's to collect such
a sum? Why,-sixw months have not
elapsed since she commenced singer.
I thought you were to attend all the
concerts at which she was engaged, in
order to prevent her-success ?"
" And'so I have, -Mr. Hartley," ex-
postulated Pike. - iverys concert and

HESTER SOMERSET.

musical party, to which I could gain
admittance, have I attended+-thanks t
you for defraying the expense of th
tickets ; I have spoken, I have insinu
ated, and I have hissed; but somehow
the stupid people have not been dis
posed to listen to my opinions. In fact
the party got up by that rascally Kiel
lerman, to applaud the girl, has beer
too strong for me."
"Wretched imbecile! knave withou
brains !"
"Don't blame me-don't be severe
good Mr. Hartley," cried the eringin
miser. "I'll do anything to serve yoi
yet."
" It is too late, fool."  As Hartley
spoke, he drew a letter Irom his pocket
"'Here, read this; I received it to-day;
and then confess how well'you have
served me."
The letter was addressed to Hart-
ley by Mr. Somerset's attorney, and,
couched in legal phrase, gave him no
tice that his client was now prepared to
meet and discharge the bill of exchange,
or promissory note, held by Roland
Hartley, and bearing the signature of
Hugh Somerset, in default of payment
of which, the said Hugh Somerset had
8o long been detained in prison. The
said bill would be duly honored on its
presentation .at the banking-house of
Messrs. Candy, Sparks &amp; Co.London.
If, after this notice, the bill was not
presented for payment, he, the attorney,
would lave the pleasure-of waiting with
the money at Mr. Hartley's chambers,
demanding the delivery of the said
promissory note, so that Mr. Somerset-
mightforthwith-be releasedfrom prison.
- Mr. Pike's face assumed a most me-
lancholy and blank expression.. " This
is, indeed, bad=--very bad," he said.
"Who should have expected it? The
girl, I well know, a few months since,
through.my'assiduity in defeating her
projects, did not possess forty pounds.
Ah I 'tis all owing to this villain-this
music-master, Kellerman."
" Rather say it is owing to yourself,
. Mr. Pike ; -you have been remiss and
inactive."
!- remiss! I inactive !" -.cried the
little attorney, raising his hands and
eyes, astounded by the charge.' "Do
not say so, good'sir, after all mrn long
' and faithful se vices."
"rLook you, the money:has'been
gained by. the daughter-my enemy
will be r-free, -and triumph over me-I
12

169

n have allowed- you three hundred a
o year."
e   " Yes, generous Mr. Hartley-three
-hundred a yeai--I thank you."
,   " For what purpose ?-to obtain the
- imprisonment of my ene py, and when
, in prison to keep him there. You suc-
- eeded in the first-you have failed in
n the last. Ih afew days, Somerset will
be at large."
t   "Confusion!" cried Pike.    "Oh,
that the girl, Hester, could be burnt
for a witch I"
 "These are idle words ; our con-
u nection must cease. Your annuity-"
"My annuity-yes--what ?" gasped
Pike.
  "Must be suspended."
"Heaven forbid !" cried the miser,
in an agony. ".Believe me, I can still
serve you., You can't do without rme-
no, no, you can't do without ne 1"
Hartley cast on the man crouching
before him a look of withering con-
tempt.
.I tell thee thou art nistaken. No-
thing now can prevent Sonierset from
obtaining his freedom.; so- Ihave no
further use of thee. But surely,". an,
thou dost not covet, thy annuity any
longer, for thou art nch enough.'?
Rich enough!    Ohi when, did-a
miser ever feel he was rich enough=?
"No, I am poor, good Mr: Hartley,
very poor, I assure you. - T only-want'
to make a little provision for'my old
age. Oh ! it -is a -horrible thing, the
idea of starving when one is old and
infirm.. If you take away my annuity,
I shall soon want a crust-a bed' tolie
on; but you will not be so unjust and
cruel."
" I can see no injustice or crtueltyirn
the matter; I am' resolved on doing it;
say no more."
" Ha !" cried Pike, in a sharp ac-
cent, looking askance at Hartley hi
manner throwiiig off its usual abj'et
servility, and his face assuming an e-
pression' of viperous malignity-- I
will have my annity-I dare you to
stop 'the payment."
Hartley- was astonished at thebold- -
ness of the  an whnm he had made
his tool.
"I do 'not understand you, Mi-.
Pike:"
"I;mean, I will have my three hun-
dred a'year-so long, at least, as yu
live. . Thinkme very moderate that.

-I'

H

i; ri
z+.

,,-.


i1TV

HESTER SO- ME.RS ET.

dt not ,demand of you double that smile, ".that the case is not so despe-
sum."                              rate; something strikes me that the
" Insolent rascal! what mean you money which the attorney speaks ofin
by this ? Are you mad ? NTot a penny the bank of Cundy, Sparks, &amp; Co., de-
more shall you receive from me."   signed to discharge Mr. Somerset's
"But I will have it," said Pike, debt, may, by some means or other, be
firmly.  " There's a building not a withdrawn,,andthen seized upon."
hundred miles off, called Newgate;   " Ha !" cried Hartley, "true ; or if
there's a gallows there-gentlemen these people could be made bank-
have suffered'before now-I tell you, rupts-".
I will have my money."              "That- would be a circuitous and
Hartley changed visibly. His cheek, tedious way. - Before I could spread
that lately burned with indignation, reports which might cause. a'run'
turned deadly white, and a tremor upon them, Miss Somerset's money
came upon him. Pike intently watched would be forthcoming, and her father's-
his emotions.                      discharge obtained.  No ; I have a
"Madman I" exclaimed Hartley, re- plan, in my head, but it will require
covering himself, "your insults - are some hours thinking over. Yet, be-
without meaning."                  lieve me,-I will act with zeal, and, if
" Then I will speak plainly, and at needs be, with daring; for I am con-
once. Roland Hartley, you- have ren- vinced nothing. short of a bold deed
dered yourself amenable to.the crimi- will serve us now."-
nal law of this country. You made    "Pike,"ssaid Mr. Hartley, apparently
way with the hunchback Flemming- much pleased, "you are an excellent
you murdered your- own illegitimate man ; forgive, me my late hasty act,
son. I know this to be a fact, how- and for doubting your sincerity or in-
ever ignorant the world may be re- dustry in my cause. Listen to me: as
specting the matter." .            a spur to your performance of this 1m-
Pike could say nO more, for he felt portant business, I agree that if: you
himself suddenly seized by the throat' can: by any means extract the money;
Hartley dashed him back against the from the hands of these bankers, the
wall, and held hint there, until the entire sum shall be yours : in addition
latter, struggling in vain, grew black to which, I promise that your annuity
in the face.                       shall be continued."
"Foul-mouthed liar!l swear never to  The heart of the miser leaped up
repeat-this calumny. Thou cast not within, him, and -his:lean face was
prove what thou dost assert, and thou covered with smiles.. Happy, happy-
wilt lose all by a false accusation.".  Mr. Pike! a; singular compound thou
"Unhand me-I will swear never to wert of avarice and cunning,.of mean-
allude to, your deed, if-my annuity is ness and self-delusion, of groveling
continued."                        servility yet_ acuteness and -daring.
Hartleyaseemed suddenly to awake Man of the tender conscience' excuser
to the impolitic nature of his conduct, and: glosser-over of flagrant iniquity I-
for, unloosing his grasp, he flung Pike But the annuity iestill to be thine ;
from 'him, and turned away with a the guineas, are still to be raked to-
laugh of contempt.   Mr. Pike had gether, swelling the great whole-the
only -one ,end in view-his own ag- provision for thy declining yeurs-
grandizerent. The two men knew    happy, happy Mr. Pike I
each other, and their respective posi-
tions.-
"Mr. Hartley," said Pike, gradually-
resuming.the cringing address natural        CHAPTER XIX.
to him, "1 have no wishto pain you,
far less' to offer you an insult. You RESTER AND HER MONEY--THE ROBBERY.
are rich, and I am poor-very poor;
I entreat you not to withdraw{your   HESTER and Julie continued tovreside
bounty. Youterr greatly insupposing in the pretty cottage at Brompton, sur-
that. I cannot-serve you even now. rounded by shrubs and flowers..They
Your earnest desire is that Mr. $oner- livedhere chiefly at the solicitation of
set should be detained in prison.  I Mr. Somerset, who was anxious that
think," continued Pike,0'iith a hopeful they should enjoagthe benefit of *a

HE STER SOMERS.ET.

purer air than the-close London streets
afford. At the same time, they pos-
sessed the advantage of having for
their neighbors Mr. Kellerman and
his family, whom they might well re-
gard in the light of protectors.
The sisters were walking up and
down in the flower-garde'n. The heart
of Hester was full of joyous anticipa-
tion, for it appeared, by the arrange-
ments of Mr. Somerset's attorney, that
in two or three days, at-furthest, the
money was to be tendered to. Mr.
Hartley; consequently-the "detainer"
against her father would be withdrawn,
and his dismissal from the prison, as
a matter of course, would- -instantly
follow.
"Julie," said Hester, " the blissful
moment is fast =approaching when,
after so many years, so many hopes
defeated, and -so many sufferings and
privations on the part of our father, we
shall see him free. Ought we not to
be thankful to Heaven, and bless God's
kind providence, which has thus heard
the prayers of the children, and smiled
upon their efforts ?"
"My sister !" said Julie.  "How
dear is that new name !. , I cannot re-
peat it too often. You kindly couple
our names together ; but all, all the
credit-is due to yourself. You alone
are the good benefactress, the giverof
freedom and joy. to'our father."
"No, let us share the happiness of
having served him, as we intend to
share everything else in the world.'
At this instant the postman was
seen approaching the garden gate. He
held a letter in his hand: it was for
Hester. She carelessly broke the seal:
but the writing, which was a loose run-
ning hand, was unknown to her. At
first, so-reckless was she, that her eyes
seemed scarcely to trouble themselves
to glance at the words ; but, continuing
to read, she :grew pale and agitated.
The contents of the letter were as
follows :-

"MAAM---I make no apology for ad-
dressing you, since I write entirely on
business. I am one: of the clerks in
the banking house of Messrs. C., S.,
and Co.; and.by our books Iperceive
you have a deposit in our hands. I
may be acting wrong with regard to
my employers,;or rather their-creditors,
but having, by chance, learnt the,
praiseworthy purpose for which your

r'T

money has been saved, common hu-
manity prompts me to the disclosure
I am about-to make. Madam, I would
spare you a bitter pang, and I sincere-
ly trust your poor father may obtain
his freedom at -last. -I write, then, to
apprise you, as a profound secret, that
our bank is :in difficulties. The firm
must suspend payment in a few days
at furthest. In fact, they cannot go on.
Consequently, your money, unless
promptly drawn out, must be sacri-
ficed ; for, from the state of- the eac
counts, I much fear the firm will not
pay one shilling in the pound. Do
not, however, hurry yourself. Your
check,: if presented  to-morrow, no
doubt will be duly paid,; that is unless
a heavy demand should be made on us
this afternoon, in which case,,the house
most probably will close to-morrow, and
the firm  announce themselves bank-
rupts.
"I am, madam, with every feeling
"of respect and-sympathy,
"Your obedient servant,
"* * -*.,
Hester re-read theletter aloud to
Julie, and both were in a state of ter-
rible excitement and alarm.   What
motives- could the clerk have in address-
ing her but those of humanity? Sure-
ly no mercenary feelings swayed him,
for he would gain'nothing by disclosing
the state of his employer'saffairs. But
was the letter a hoax,,to raise in her
needless fears-a forgery of their ene-
my's ? Oh, no, reasoned Hester; it
bore- the stamp of truthfulness and
honesty in every line. The clerk had
learnt her situation, and was moved by
compassion..
But time pressed. It was now four
in the afternoon; and London banks,
she knew, closed at five. To- delay
drawing out the money until the mor-
row might be a fatal procrastination.
The firm might then be insolvent ; and
the very chance of such an event it
was dreadful to contemplate. Was
there time to hurry to the Fleet Prison
and consult with their father?  She
thought not.   Hester's resolve was
taken ; for promptness, in- cases of
emergency, is frequently the best-po-
licy. At her request, the master of
the cottage ran to the nearest mews for
a fly, and the sisters were whirled off
to Chariag-cross, in, the vicinity of
which-the banking-house was situated.

r
i,
_
,
t
i_

___

---------- --
jl  I

..                                                                                                                  '  '
a
-                                                             1

I

1
1
E
,


172

HESTER SOMERSE T.

WhenHester entered the bank,-she
was rather surprised at seeing such
large bundles of =Bank Hof England
notes, and such piles of'gold, in the
possession of:parties, said, by ler in-
ormant, to be on the -point of ruin.
But, no doubt, the sight was fallacious,
the display of wealth being meant for
a " blind."  She wrote the check
hastily on the counter. Her signature
was well known to the head clerk, and
he did not for a moment scruple to pay
her the full amount of her deposit.
When she left the bank, it wanted only
a few minutes of the-time when pub-
lic business would be closed, and the
poor girl congratulated herself on hav-
ing thus saved her all from the ima-,
ined approaching wreck,.
It was already growing dusk, it
being the middle of November. The
first question that presented itself was,
where for the night should she deposit
'the money? p ester would have hast-
ened to her father; but the idea of car-
rying such a sum into the Fleet Prison,,
where numberless rogues and sharpers
were lodged with honest men, could
hot be entertained. With the timidity
and suspicion natural to those who
earntheir money hardly, she feared to
place it, without proper security, into
the hands of her father's attorney.- So
she stood on the pavement irresolute.
Julie, too, knew not what to advise. At
that moment a man, wrapped in a great
coat, passed them  hurriedly, crossed
the street, and stationed himself near
the door of the bank which they had
just .quitted.  There was something
suspicious about the- person, for he
seemed carefully to hide his face, and
yet to peer about him quickly and
constantly.,                -
"That man watches us," said Hes-
ter, uneasily, to Julie, -concealing the
reticule'which held the money beneath
hex cloak. " We had better, I think,
call a' coach; and return at once to
Brompton."
Julie was of the same' opinion.
"Certainly," she' suggested, "we
may keep the money in our possession
safely enough until to-morrow; then,
in the broad daylight, we might go to
our fatherland, consult with him."
" Yes, we will ask him," said Hes-
ter, "' if we shall not, accompany.the
lawyer immediately to Mr. Hartley's,
demand the delivery of tha bill he

holds, and so, without further delay,
complete the business."
'That arrangement seemed a very
satisfactory one to Julie; but as they
proceeded in:the coach, Hester, look-
ing through the window, perceived an-
other vehicle rapidly following them.
" Why does that cabriolet track us?"
she observed to her companion.  In-
to whatever street we turn, it turns
also."
" I saw that man in the cloak jump
into a cabriolet as we drove off: yes,
it is the same--I know it by the white
horse."
"Julie," exclaimed Hester, "I feel
very uneasy.."
"'Oh 1 we need not be alarmed--
why should we ? Of course the man
can know nothing of what we have
with us; he only happens to be going
the same way.\ There, he has turned
down another street: I dare say we
shall see-no more of him."
Julie in this was right. They saw
no more of him. His object, perhaps;:
was accomplished; for be now knew
they were proceeding home.
Hester, by the time they had reached
Brompton, had entirely dismissed her
fears ; but it'was now dark, and the
sisters did not, by any indiscreet word
or action, betray to the gardener who
owned the small house that they had,
anything valuable in their possession.
At the usual time, they .wished him
and his wife good-night, and retired to
their bedroom.- In spite of her usual
self-possession, Hester could not help
feeling great nervousness regarding:
the safety of the money. She wished,
when it was too late, that they had pot
scrupled to trust her father's attorney.
The muffled figure of the man in the
cloak again began to haunt: her, and a
fearful idea rose in her mind, but she
did not mention it to Julie. Suppose,
after all, the banker's elerk was in
league:with some:London rogue, and
had frightened her into a withdrawal
of -the money only to.rob her of it I
However base aman Mr. Pike might
be; she could not believe he had sunk,
so low as to become a common thief;
and yet he might have incited the
clerk to commit the villany,:and even
employed the .rogue
"What are you thinking of, lies-
ter?  asked Julie, observing hersis-
ter's absent manner.     -
" Nothing, iibthing--only," whis-

pered Hester, "I cannot forget that
man."
"Now, to me, nothing seems more
groundless than your apprehensions."
" You are right.'- However, I shall
not go to bed to-night," she added in
a scarcely audible tone; " I shall sit
up and- watch."
"You will -injure your health. I
hope you will not do this."
"It will be the safest plan. Be-
sides, I shall be unable to close my
eyes. Think, Julie, of-the great im-
portance of our trust.  A  father's
freedom  from an imprisonment that-
might be, continued to the end of his
life depends on the possession of this
little packet. Yes, public taste and
fashion are- so changeable, that, ano-
ther season, I might be unable to save
any money.- .Here, then-here are
garnered all our hopes."
"Well,. ,dear Hester, be it is you
will; but don't think I shall rest my
sluggard head, and leave you.to watch
alone."
An amiable contention now took
place between the sisters--a conten-
tion carried on chiefly by kisses. It
was who should sleep; and who should
remain awake. At length it was de-
cided that ~they should act sentinel
- by turns, the one alternately waking
the other every few hours, or as they
might feel tired.
"We must burn a light," said Julie,
"until daybreak."
"Yes, it will be an additional safe-
guard.""
Hester resolved to watch first; her
sister accordingly crept to her bed,
and was soon asleep.   The money
drawn from the bank consisted of
Bankof England notes, being chiefly
fives and tens, and one hundred sove-
reigns. Suspicion and fear again had
prompted her"to this. Had she chosen
large notes, and any one happened to
be forged, if it could not be :traced to
solvent parties, the loss would be ter-
rible.. Smallnotes, she imagined, would
be saferpwhile sovereigns were safest
of all. The poor girl had been cheat-
ed so many times, and Pike had ha-
rassed her by so many villanies, that
this general mistrust was very natu-
ral, and almost excusable. She had
taken the precaution to copy on a
sheet of paper the numbers and dates
of the :several notes; they-formed a
rol, whichL, -together with the sove-

173

reigns, could not be containedin her
pocket; so from her reticule she had
transferred the money, first placing it
all in a bag, to the drawer of a bureau
near the bed;, this- drawer she. care-
fully locked, and placed the key in
her pocket.
Hester Seated herself at ,a table
which stood between her and the fire,
which was burning -steadily, though
not brightly ; on her left was, the bed;
where Julie now placidly slumbered:;
and near her, so that her outstretched
hand could touch it, stood the bureau.
The window of the room overlooked
the garden;- it had no shutters, but- a
thick curtain was drawn across it.
The gardener and his wife slept, in
the apartment behind, which was divid-
ed from the one we have been describ-
ing by a narrow passage.
It was about half-past eleven; the
night was calm, and all without was
silent, except that occasionally a slight
gust blew against -the front -of the
house, causing the rose-trees to wave,
and the climbing honeysuckle to make,
a flapping noise as it brushed against
the pane, The moon was nearly at
her full, but diffused a very uncertain
light through the patches of dark
clouds which overspread the sky.
Hester -had a volume open before
her,. but her anxious look, and her
glances, so frequently cast towards
the bureau containing her treasure,
betrayed that she was ill able to read.
Then her eyes would wander to the
window, back to the fire, and at last
fix themselves on the placid face of
her sister.  Now that the -newly-dis,4
covered  relationship  endeared  the.
slumberer to her, the mild disposition
of Julie, her trustfulness, her simpli-
city, and her intense love, were as so
many ties that bound her to her heart.
By the feeble rays of the half-shaded
candle, Hester might have been seen
approaching on tiptoe, and- bending
over the-couch. Like an infant;-Julie
lay there in sweet unconsciousness;
Hester kissed her cheek, and then re-
tired to her seat  Hush=I what sound
did she hear?-it seemed like.a rustling
among the shrubs of the garden, ac-
companied by a light-step: mechani-
cally, she went to thee bureau, and
ascertained that the keyswas safe in her
pocket ; then,; advancing to the win-
dow, she moved the curtain a little
on one side; everything was still with-

1

I

REST-BR. SOMERSET.


174

HESTER SOMERSET.

J
k
qq
Y
d
i
i
1

HESTE. SOMERSET.

out, and no one could be pe :ceived glittering sparks-they were the eyes
walking in the lane, beyond the gar- of a man ; yes, a man was looking in,
den. The moonlight faintly revealed and he had been enabled to mount to
the flowers, whichwere hanging their the cottage window, about twelve feet
heads, heavy with- dew., The rustling from the ground, by means of a rope- -
just heard, no doubt was the creeping ladder, one end of which, having an
of the wind ; and as for the step, she iron hook, had caught the bar placed
must have been mistaken.            horizontally a few inches above the sill.
Hester =trimmed her fire, and en-   The man wore a mask, therefore no
deavored to -compose herself.  The features were visible except his eyes,
neighboring clock struck twelve-she which, we have said, glittered with a
read, and thought, and read again: it remarkable brilliancy. Now the head
struck one-she felt herself yielding to disappeared, as though  the person
drowsiness, and in order to shake it off, hesitated in his design, if that design
inoved etwo or three times across the were to enter the house. The next
room. Suddenly the gardener's little minute the eyes shone again, and a
dog ran barking down the garden ; this hand traced rapidly a circle on the out-
was not_ a common practice with him, side of one of the glass panes; a round
and instantly'roused Hester's attention. hole was dexterously cut by a diamond,
She stood before the-window, listening; and the hand being introduced, in-
her ear was painfully on the stretch, stantly unbolted the window. . Slowly
and shefelt a tingling sensation through .and without noise the sash was raised;
her veins,                         first the head was thrust through, then
Another sharp bark-a low growl- the shoulders, and, finally,. the right
and the dog was quiet. Either he had leg being passed over the sill, the man
laid himself down among the shrubs, stood in the room.
or had retired to the porch of the house.  He was small and thin in person,
Not a sound, not a breath, could now  but - possessed, apparently, of much
be heard.; - so, having listened about strength and agility; - a leather cap
half an hour longer, Rester drew back covered his head, meeting the mask at
from the window, being satisfied that the forehead ; his clothes were of dingy
her fears were groundless. Should she black, and his coat was buttoned tight-
now awake Julie, and indulge in a little ly around him, that no impediment
rest herself, according to their agree- might be offered -to his progress. He
nent ?- -no; she felt a reluctance to held in his hand -a short staff or -blud-
arouse -her sister from her quiet sleep ; geon ; his design, no doubt, in case of
rather would she bear the burden, and surprisal, being to stun or felf any one
watch through the weary hours.      who might oppose him.
Three o'clock--Hester's eyes are    Again those eyes, through the holes
fixed on the fire, which burns low with- of the mask, were glaring around the
autbeing replenished; they close, open, room. At length, he. appeared to be
and close again; objects fade and grow  satisfied that the two ,young women
indistinct, the, candle remains un- were in sound slumber, for he crept
trimmed, and the leaves of her book towards the table on which Hester was
are unturned. Nature seems striving now resting her weary head. He had
to overcome the watchful spirit, and the precaution, however, to hold the
tired Nature gradually triumphs. Her bludgeon firmly in his right hand, in
hands, falllistlessly on her lap, her readiness for instant use should occa-
head droops forward on her bosom, and sion require.
the: young watcher, worn out, has sunk  How the burglar should have known
into &amp;-deep-but quiet slumber.     that Hester had a treasure concealed
A very short:time had elapsed when somewhere, seemed one of those strange
there was a slight scraping against the mysteries so frequently thrown around
front of -the house, near the window, the actions :of thieves. They gain in-
The dog did not bark; for,'truth to formation through channels the most
say, he had -been struck down and undreamt- of, and appear almost en-
stunnedrinthe garden. A small por- dowed with a power of sometimes see-
tion of the curtain before the win- ing through stone walls and into iron
dow, Hester, by accident,-had left un- chests.
drawn,,and now, shining- throughthat  The man cautiously opened the desk,
aperture, appeared, as it were, stwo which stood on thestable. He forced

175

CHAPTER XX.

out the private drawers, and turned
over the papers, but no money was
there. He softly felt Hester's pocket
with his left hand, still holding in his
right the bludgeon above her; which
action plainly intimated that he should
not scruple to stun- her, in case she
awoke prematurely. No roll of notes,
no sovereigns, were about her person;,
of this he felt satisfied. Gazing from
object to object, the bureau quickly
attracted his attention. Ife tried the
drawers, but those which remained un-=
locked, he cared nothing about, for
thieves are well aware that property is
seldom deposited in open drawers. Ha !
he found one that was fast; now, no
doubt,, the prize 'was near. He dared
notwaste time in searching for the real
key, but plucked from  his pocket a
bundle of keys, called skeleton, and
which were of all sizes.
On the first trial he made a slight
noise, and the drawer would not open.
That grating sound had no effect on the
deep sleep of Julie, but it caused Hes-
ter to move in her chair. The man,
perceiving the last circumstance, in-
stantly stepped up on tiptoe behind her.
His leaded staff was raised above her
head, and we shudder to think what
Hester's fate might have been, had she
chanced that instant to awake! But,
after a few words feebly murmured in
her dream, she remained quiet as be-
fore, her forehead resting on her arms,.
which were crossed on the table. 'The
man in the mask again plied the keys.
His perseverance was at length re-
warded with success, for the drawer
was opened.   Oh, how   eagerly he
peered into it!  His band clutched
something-it was a bag; this bag con-
tained a soft substance, which proved
to be a roll of bank notes; that-slight
jingle-his practised ear could never
be mistaken-it was the chink of sove-
reigns!
The treasure-the precious treasure,
thus fell into the possession of the
miscreant, and no one-was there to
arrest his flight ; excited by his-success,
and trembling with joy, he retreated to
the window, and, as he passed by Hes-
ter, extinguished her candle, leaving
the room  in total darkness.  Then,
creeping through the opened window,
and closing the sash after him, he hur-
ried out of the garden.

t
Y
'll
L
1
Y^
!
{e
1
H
4
{a

a  .
1:1J   :  L

maul

4"
i 4
nw
%'
sjA
'a?

HESTER S MONEY HAS VANIsHED--THE'
POLIoE-oFoICE.
IT was notlong before Hester awoke,
and her first-sensation was surprise at
finding herself in the dark. She struck
alight; and that surprise was increased
when she perceived that her candle had
not burnt down, but that some person
had placed the extinguisher upon it.
Julie was awakened by the movements
of her sister, and had begunto dress
herself in order to take herturn as sen-
tinel. A slight scream from Hester be-
trayed that she had now discovered the
fatal truth. The drawer of the bureau
was open, and empty,; the treasure--
the hoarded hope of a father's freedom
-all the money was gone!
Pitiable was the picture of consterna-
tion, anguish, and despair, which the
girl' presented. For the first' few mo-
ments she was speechless, and, could
only bygestures make Julie aware of
the terrible-stroke which had befallen
them. By degrees, however, she gained
self-possession, and was enabled, amidst
the whirl of her feelings, to act and
think. She rushed to the door, but no
one -could have entered by that way,
since it was looked on the inside. The
window, with its cut pane, quickly told
the tale-; and as she threw open the
sash, the ladder of ropes was ,seen still
dangling from the iron bar, the thief,
in his hurry; having neglected to take
it away.
Hester's first suspicion fell on the
gardener, but the old man seemed the
very personification of honesty; and
when she saw his little dog, that at one
time had roused her by his bark, lying
dead in the garden, the idea was in-
stantly dismissed. -But Julie now awoke
the inmates of the house, andi all was
excitement and-consternation.  The
gardener hurried through the fields,
and down the lane ; but, as- might be
expected, nothing could be seen'or
learnt of the housebreaker.
Morning -dawned.    Unfortunately
their-neighbor, Mr. Kellerman, was ab-
sent -from home, and, ,therefore,no ad-
vice or assistance-could beobtained
from that quarter. Julie proposed go-
ing to-the Fleet Prison without delay;
but Hester, even-now kindly consider-
ate, overruled her sister.  She was well
assured that the poor prisoner, their

y . L
"   F.! y   _
w'( Tom'


176

HESTER SOMERSE.T.

I)
r

father, could render them no aid, and
anxious was she to spare him the know-
ledge of the bitter stroke, so long as any
hope of recovering-the stolen property
existed. One mode of proceeding offer-,
e4itself, and the most rational one it
seemed to be-it was to apply to a ma-
gistrate, in order that- efficient steps
might be taken for the discovery and
apprehension ofthe robber.
The master of the house in which
they lived accompanied the sisters to
the police-oflce, and they arrived at
Bow-street before the magistrate had
taken, his, accustomed place. Sad it
was, under such circumstances, to be
obliged to wait; but rules of office are
stubborn things-iron, that refuses to
bend: a magistrate will not sit before
his time._
The court opened at last, and some
uninteresting  business having  been
gone through, Hester was permitted to
make her statement,
Even in her distress, there was an
air of superiority about the ruined gen-
tleman's ; daughter which . conianded
respect. The ushers, clerks, and mat-
ter-of-fact functionaries of such a place
are not readily charmed, yet the beauty
and grace of Hester had an evidentef-
fect upon them. -.She, detailed, in a
plain and straightforward manner, the
circumstances of the robbery. The ma-
gistrate-not the one who had harshly
treated, her on a former occasion--ap-
peared to take great interest in her case, -
the mare especially when he learnt for
what object the money had been accu-
mulated.
"But, my dear young lady," he said,
"had you takes, the trouble to inquire
respecting the bankers you name, you
would have found they are among the
richest in London. The letter, raising
an alarm as to their stability, was evi-
dently written by a party connected
with therobbery. But Ican feel for
you; timidity, and suspicion are not
always readily conquered,; the money
was designed for a purpose so import-
ant, that, by a;dutiful daughter, like
yourself, it must have-been valued al-
m4st like life itself. ut,.no doubt, you
are impatient; you are anxious:for; a
way to be pointed out whereby the lost
property may be recovered: We will
do kwhatwe can, and if our efforts prove
vain, I shall.very sincerely pity you.
In the first place, have youpreserved
nimlier~s and dates of the notes?"

HESTER SOMERSET.

Hester produced the list of which we
have spoken, and it was passed to the
magistrate.
"Bless me, all fives and tens, andone:.
hundred sovereigns! Tlgis is valuable
booty; the villain will pass the small
notes easily in the country, and the
stoppage of them at the Bank of Eng-
land will, I fear, be of little use."
The countenance of Hester assumed
an expression-of anguish which a paint-
er might have depicted, though words
may not describe. But two police-con-
stables now stepped forward, and one
of them addressed the magistrate-.
"Please your worship, Bateman and
I think we can throw some light on this
business, if your worship gives us leave
now to speak."
"Speak on," said the magistrate.
"Last night, or rather this morning,
for 'twas near four o'clock, I found a
man lying across the pavement in Pic-
cadilly; he seemed to be in a fit, so I
raised him off the stones, and called
assistance, when Bateman came up.
Searching his pockets. to find out -his
address, that we might carry him home,
we discovered a bunch of skeleton-keys,
a small crowbar, and other housebreak-
ing implements; then, from another
pocket, we drew forth a heavy bag-it
was full of money!"-
Hester uttered afaint cry at the bare
possibility that. this might prove her,
lost treasure.
"A bag of money," said the magis-
trate; "go-on."
"We carried the man to a surgeon's,
who said the fit was a bad one, and
brought on, he thought, by over-excite-
ment of mind. I put a seal upon the
bag, and gave it to the inspector; and
he, your worship, has the money now.
in court."
"Very well; let the inspector pro-
duce it. If .the sum is composed of
bank-notes, the numbers of which cor-
respondwith those marked on the sheet
before me, of course the matter is de-
cided. that the property is the young
lady's."
the inspector of police came forward,
and at once placed the bag of money on
the table. OhI to have seen Hester's
glistening eyes, her clasped hands, and
to have heard her exclamations of rap-
tare, might have touched the hardest,
and warmed the'coldest heart..
"-That is mine!-ours?-J-I know it-
thank Heaven! I am happy now!"

i[

self at last, .His hypocrisy would
avail him nothing now; his hardihood
could not face out the. terrible andpal-
pable truth: the wretched man knew
it, and felt it.
Ay, he felt it, and therefore he
shrank into himself; - therefore his
lean and withered limbs trembled, and
his teeth chattered. In a word, his
moral and physical courage had fled.
A-miserable object, he appeared, of
fraud unmasked, and long-flourishing
iniquity receiving retribution at last.
He answered no word to the questions
of the-magistrate ; in sullen silence he
was, removed from the police-ofice, and
in sullen silence locked up. - On the
following day, he was placed again at
the bar, and examined ; the depositions
were taken against him, and no doubt
of his guilt being entertained, Mr. Pike
was fully committed to take his trial
for housebreaking and robbery.

And, overwhelmed by the - feelings of
the moment, and scarcely conscious of
what she did, Hester ardently embrac-
ed her sister, while tears filled her eyes.
Meantime, the moneywas turned out
upon the table, and the magistrate's
clerk began to count the sovereigns.
They proved to be a hundred. JThe
notes were enrolled, and their dates-and
numbers exactly agreed with Hester's
account.
"Well," said -the good magistrate,
taking off his spectacles, with a happy
and beaming look, "this is, indeed, a
fortunate affair; and I congratulate the
young lady most sincerely on the prompt
and unexpected recovery of her lost pro-
perty. But," he asked, "where is the
criminal? Did he recover from the fit?"
"Yes, your worship," replied the in-
spector; "he is now quite well: we
have him here-locked up."
"Then bring him before the bench,"
said the magistrate.
There was a movement among the
people, and a turning of heads in the
direction that the prisoner was expected
to 'come. Already. the- housebreaker
seemed to be an object of morbid inte-
rest, and each one asked the other if it
was known who he was., But the pri-
soner now appeared, and was led for-
ward by the constables, and placed in
the dock. Then an -involuntary ex-
clamation of wonder burst from the lips
rof many present, to whom the person
of the unhappy man was well known.
"It is Mr. Pike !--Mr. Pike, the at-
torney !--.impossible !" were the-words-
echoed around.,
Hester and Julie, too, were taken by
surprise ; for they had not conceived
that their.~ father's persecutor , and
Hartley's tool would have proceeded
to such a length-committing at once
an act of the lowest, vilest description,,
and yet of consummate daring. And
how  did Mr. Pike comport himself,
with the eyes - of all fixed upon him,
and his guilt revealed so completely
that no loophole was,: left him for
escape..
There ha stood, the black, relentless
persecutor of the innocent, the ,pan-
derer to the evil passions of an. un-
natural brother-; his 'career having
been pursued for years, long years-
his one object the amassing of money.
There he stood, the plotting, the cau-
tious, the crafty; .spreading snares for
others, but caught in the snare him-

MR. PIKE IN NEwGATE.
THE money was safe, and the heart
of Hester was full of.happiness, .yet
she did not exult over a fallen enemy.
That enemy was now in a ,prison-mi
Newgate-awaiting his trial.    -
From the serious nature of the crime
with which he was-charged, and other
considerations, Mr. Pike was not lodged
,in one of the common wards, where it
'has been the custom to place. three,
six, and sometimes even twelve pri-
soners together.. He was confined in
a separate cell, with liberty to take air
and exercise in the yard twice a day.
The cell was not altogether cheerless,
light being admitted through a grating
about eight feet from  the ground,
There was a little iron bedstead, with
a Straw mattress;:in the corner; he
was allowed a wooden chair, with a
small; deal table, and, enjoying the
privileges of prisoners before-con-
viction, writing materials were .,sup-
plied him.
That he deeply felt his degradation,
may be supposed. He,-the respectable
gentleman-the upholder, :by profes-
sion, of the laws of his country-the
flourishing fundholder--to be confined
in Newgate jail! the fact was enough

'
e
_
;
h
S
N
f
}
t
P
E

U

y         M.
LJ   r  +

CHAPTER XXI.


S

j7g

-HEST'ER SO-M-ERSET.

to cover him with shame, and fill his in their power; my agony is, that all
heart with indignation,             mye plans--my deeply-laid schemes--
Mr. Pike sat on his wooden chair. are' of no more avail.  And oh!" he
He had been drawing up a defence cried, starting up, and grinding his
which he intended to read at his trial; teeth, "my worst agony is, that all I
but, alas! he found all his skill and have saved - all for which I have
legal knowledge utterly fail him in tacked my brains and starved my body
making out a case so that an acquittal -my  annuity, my stock, my dear,
might be expected, the evidence against dear guineas--everything must go.
him being so-strong, so overwhelming. They will take away from the old man
fHis lean arms were now folded on his his hard earnings, the provision he de-
narrow  chest, and his great head signed for his declining years; they
drooped in profound meditation. In will call him a convict, and send him
appearance, the man was much- the acrossthe seas; they will not.pity the
same as when we described him in his old man-fools! monsters! murderers!
little counting-house in St. Mary-Axe. -they will not!"
His white neckerchief, on which his  He sat upon his low iron bedstead,
prominent chin seemed always to take and began-to draw a skull-cap over his
pleasure in resting', was drawn tightly misshapen head, and to take off his
around his throat; his seedy black coat shoes.
was buttoned up close, and carefully  "I'll go to bed. Pll sleep. I'll for-
brushed ; while leather straps drew  get all the business until the trial
straining down his shrunken panta- comes on.    But then those dreams,
loons, to meet the upper rim of his long, those horrid dreams! No, I cannot
well-polished shoes. His, features, how- lie down; I can battle with the fiends
ever, were thinner and paler, his large better awake."
hooked nose standing out, in more de-  Suddenly Mr. Pike began to smile,
fined prominence, and hisround, restless anrd to pace up and down with a quick
black eyes added to their natural lustre and cheerful step.
the almost ferocious glare which dis-  "Well, well, bear up. my heart!
tinguishes those of a wild beast.   Come what may, I shall not die.
Solitude, it is said, prompts medita- Thaiks to the change in our laws, I
tion, and loves to send memory back shall not swing on a gibbet.   This
over the past, whether evil or good is ,something. No grave,.yet; no blot-
deeds have marked our course. Mr. ting out of -the light; no worm; no
Pike's contemplations at that moment grave-ba, ha! This, I say, is some-
were retrospective. ,He thought of all thing. The most they can prove is
he had done-of his triumphs and his burglary, acid what they ignorantly
defeats; but he felt no repentance, no call theft; and the severest sentence
remorse,                            they can pass is transportation. But
"Plind, misjudging world!" he said, for how  long?  Seven, fourteen, or
in his quiet reverie, "you know not twenty-one years? The last would be
what 'eally is crime, or what is virtue. for life; for I am getting old, and my
Each act I have committed may be de- mind and body are not what theywere.
fended on, a sound, philosophical prin- For life! Oh! misery. But cheer up;
ciple-the principle of expediency. I shall not die. No grave yet; no
Even my last deed, which men' stupidly darkness; no foul worm beneath. Yes,
call robbery, and for which I am in- yes, I shall live; I shall live."
carcerated in this vile dungeon, was"- His hands were clasped, and his eyes
only the obeying one of the grand in- were raised to the ceiling of his cell;
stints of-our nature-self-self-ag- yet these gestures were not expressions
grandizement; -and no man is expected of an inward thankfulness to Heaven
to fight against nature. I wished to for life prolonged ; they merely denoted
lay up .something for my old age; I the exultation of the coward who feared
would not starve. That girl's money to'die. But again one black and with-
was better in my hands than in Hart- ering thought oppressed him.  His
ley's; for tohimitwould eventuallyhave smls-vanished, and his haggardfea-
gone. Ohl yes, my mind is peaceful tures worked with rage, while he shook
and happy in one sense, and my con- his clenched hand, as if uttering male-
science is at rest. My agony is, that dictions against some imaginary ene-
my miserable fellow-men have me now miue.

HEST-ER SOM E RSET.

"They'll do it; the law gives them
the power. A- convict's property is
forfeited to the State. Oh! that curses
could slay ! Then every wretch who
dared to touch one penny of that money
should fall blasted, dead in the attempt.
It is mine," he cried, furiously; "they
shall not take it from me. Have I not,
earned it?-gathered itlittle by little?-
debarred myself of all which others'
indulge in?   'Tis fifteen -thousand
pounds.: fifteen thousand! Think of
that. In one day I might have con-
verted it all into guineas, and hid the
amount somewhere in the ground.
Then, when I returned from banish-
ment, I might have found it, recovered
it, enjoyed it again. But it is too late
now. - Woe is me ! They won't let me
go to the bank and sell it out. They'll
seize it; thevultures will seize it. But
they shall not; I'll move earth and
heaven ere they shall take my property.
Rather than they should have it, I
would die, and it should be placed in
my coffin. Yes, my head should be laid
upon a bag of gold, and my feet be
buried in sovereigns.  This would
soothe my spirit-I know it would.
But, alas 1 these are idle dreams. I
shall-lose my money. I am undone,
and my heart is broken !"
With an air of abandonment he flung
himself into his chair. His lean body
was bent double as he rocked himself:
to and fro; and in his agony the miser-
wept.
CHAPTER XXII.
MR. PIKE IS VISITED IN PRISON BY HIS
OLD PATRON.
THE door of the cell was opened, and
one of the jailers of the prison entered.
"Here's your counsel come to see
you, Mr. Pike," said the man. "This
is the first time, I believe," he added,
addressing the stranger. "How long
do you want, sir?"
"A half an hour, perhaps, will be
sufficient."
The jailer retired,- closing the door
after him. : In no othet capacity than
that of legal adviser would Mr. Hartley
have been allowed this - private inter-
view with Pike; but since the former
was known to be a barrister, however
little he practised, the liberty had been
4very easily obtained. Hartley now stood

179

before the.prisoner, but remained for
several minutes without speaking, and
all that Pike did was to raise his-eyes
imploringly, and fix them on him who
had been so long his employer and
patron.
"You are come to do something for
me-come to save me," said the attor-
ney.
"You are past that," observed Hart-
ley; "I will not buoy you up--there is
no hope for you."
Mr. Pike groaned.
"'I thought your last game was to be
.your best-it has proved 'your worst,
for , you have disappointed me, and
ruined yourself."
"Don't upbraid me; the calamity no
human foresight could guard against.
I had succeeded in my enterprise, as
you know, when that bodily ailment
struck me down. I lost my senses be-
fore I had time to dispose of the money,
or throw away the implements I had
used. The fit passed, and I found my-
self in custody, discovered-ruimed!
Mr. Hartley, I have sold myself for
you."
"Not at all; you have been liberally
rewarded for everythingyou have done.
Pike, I believe we"understand each
other.  I well know, if you imnagineit
may benefit yourself, you will not scru-
plc to be tray me."
"Why, Mr. Hartley  said Pike, look-
ing obliquely at him, "iou have been
my master, as it were, my abettor, my
inciter, through all the business, and I
have 'thought that, were I-to tell this to
the jury, it might go far to soften the
rigor of the punishment which might
be awarded me."
"Miserable man!" exclaimed Hart-
ley ; "but I expected this of you. It is
not enough that the'power I once pos-
sessed over the fortunes of my enemy
has passed from my hands, but the vile
tool I used is turned into a dagger to
stab me."
"Ay," said Pike, with a grin of ma-
licious pleasure; "and-I can tell them
of something more. I don't see whyI
should be transported, and you escape.
I'll tell them that Flemining, the hunch-
back, met-"
I."Liar! and -slanderer!" interrupted
Hartley.
" Thy victims lie in a pauper's gravel"
said Pike.
"Do you'wish to die yourself? Hush!
or the turnkey beyond that door may

+r^

I

V VV

; ° _.

.
R
gg
T,

i-
F
y
d
}


180

HESTER SOMERSET.

H E-ST'E  S O M E R S-E'T.

ii
d

hear your foul but dangerous lan- a
guage.f
"Strive,:then, to save me.
"I cannot do it; but this I will do, d
and to make the proposal I came here p
to-day. You will be found guilty ; there n
is no help for that-transported, per-It
haps,-for fourteen years.; Whatever
money you possess, as a matter of i
course, must be forfeited."
"Ha!" cried Pike, clenching his,
hand.
" Listen to me-accuse me not-men- x
tion not my name in connection withs
your, own, and  I swear that, on your
return, all you have lost shall be made I
good to you from my private prperty." I
Mr. Pike mused, his long chin resting
on his hand, and his eyes fixed on the t
'wall of his cell. He shook his head, and"
counted on his fingers: at length he
spoke without lookingat Hartley.,
"It won't do-fourteen years-a long
thne it is to one who is growing old;I
besides, the sentence may be for life,
and of what use then will your money
be ? On the other hand,iflI=pove to
the jury that you have set me on, that
you are the principal, and I only the
agent, I calculate it will make a great
difference as regards the severity of my
sentence-perhaps I may get off with,
"seven years. It won't do, I say-I
can't listen to you.",
"Be reasonable; think again; mine
is the best plan."'
"No," said Pike, firmly;."you shall'
not get off. The truth is, I think I shall
be transported for life, unless you are
shown to be my prompter and abettor:
I can't help accusing you-I must do
it; so that's settled."
Hartley was acquainted with the cha-
racter of the man so well that he - de-
spaired of moving him; and. he knew
Pike would not lift his little finger to
save the life of a-fellow-being, if nothing
personally was to be got by the action.
e flt in his heart the truth of the-
other's reasoning, and believed, under,
any:circunstances, that Pike, would
tra sported for life;}consequently, the
promise of miakingover to him property.
on his .presumed return would, hoW-
ever urged, possess no weight in influ-
encing his conduct. In a word,.Hart-
ley was now assured that Pike-would
betray their connectiona.ud bring him
to shame.
An idea crossed his mind.: might it
not be possible to remove the evidence,

nd silence the man's tongue forever,
or he had that concealed about him
which would enable him to effect the
eed? What then?-should he aim
prove his position? no; for pn ignom'
ious death on the gallows would be
he inevitable consequence.
On all sides he saw himself hemmed
i: here, certain accusation; there, if
he sought to prevent that accusation, a
doom of shame; while the gratification
he had received from carrying out his
revengeful projects was at an end,
and the triumphant countenance of his,
enemy rose like a mocking vision upon
his waking dreams. Half his life had
been wasted in the morbid indulgence
of oneb.dark and demoniacal passion---
the offspring of an unhappy, disap-
pointed love. He had fed, as it were,
on the poison of revenge: the pains,
trials, and sorrows of his enemy had'
formed the only. source of happiness
he had known, and, with fostering
care, he had; spread his persecutions
over a wide space of years. -His heart
was now not the seat of remorse, but,
of cankering wretchedness-of gloom
deeper than that of a Cain-of a wear.
ness, a loathing of mankind and the
world, which words may not describe.
Anger or excitement was no longer
betrayed by, Hartley: his manner
settled into a deep imperturbable calm;
and, he now addressed the man who
had been his tool and accomplice.
" Hear me; you will be banished to
a distant land; you will be made to
work in chains; every farthing of your
property is lost forever. You will be
a wretched being-a blot on the earth
-a loathed thing of shame, for men to
wag their heads at. Will you escape
all this?-I know a way.".
Mr. Pike sprang up breathlessly,
hope and joy beaming in his counte-
nance.
"A' way ? Then tell me; dear Mr.-
Hartley; show me the way, and I will
not accuse you-I will bless you V'
" There is a passage in :one of the
Greek writers which-teaches-'when the
ills of life counterbalance the good,when
misery is stronger.than happiness, then
it is the part of.wisdom-:to die!'"
" To die?" repeated Pike, staring on
Hartley-"to die? I don't understand
you. That's not the way you mean,
is it?"
"Yes; are you reluctant to leave a
world which has no moi-e good to offer?'?

181

"Rather," said Pike, turning pale;
' I think I would rather not leave it--
at least not just yet."
"Do you fear to sleep in the earth
instead of in your bed ?"
"Don't talk so, dear Mr. Hartley-
I don't like to hear you talk like this.
I tell you, I would rather not die-a
great deal rather not. Sleep in the
earth?-'tis horrible to think of."
"This is the only method, then, I
can recommend, if you wish to escape
the evils which surround you."
" Thank you; I would rather be
excused following your advice," an-
swered Mr. Pike. "Under any 'cir-
cumstances, I am resolved to live."
"Poor coward " said Hartley, mus-
ingly; "governed by the instinct that
governs the unreasoning brute-cling-
ing to life fe life's:sake. Pitiable man,
live and be wretched! I envy thee not.
Betray me--say what thou wilt-it
will be the, same to me now."
Hartley turned away, and searched;
for something~ beneath his vest. He
again approached Pike, and the latter
perceived. that he held in his hand a
small pistol. The attorney, who only,
thought-'of himself, started back in,
terror.
"What ? you don't mean to murder
me, Mr. Hartley? In pity, forbear!
think of the consequences to yourself.
I don't wish to die, I say-I will live.
-I rnust live!"
"Fear not, timorous idiot! live, for
I can wish thee no deeper curse than
the life thou dost cling to. Here," he
said, looking at the pistol, and speak-
ing to himself rather than his com-'
panion,-" this little thing will give me
all I now covet-oblivion and peace,
It will solve the grand secret. It will
send me, perhaps, tojoin company with
Cato, Brutus, and all who, to escape
defeat and the ills of life, dared to cut
the thread. of their own destiny, rather
than to-wait patiently for the dividing,
shears of the dark  sters. Welcome
-welcome the future, whatever it be!"s
:Mr. Pike, paralyzed by terror, re-
main ed in the corner of the cell. He;
could not call the jailer-he could not
utter a word; his "limbs shook, his
teeth chattered, and his eyes were,
riveted '-on Hartley.  But he  who
meditated suicide appeared suddenly
to alter his determination, and return-
ed the pistol to his pocket, muttering'
to - himself, "Not here-not here; 1

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE FAREWELL TO THE FLEET PRISON-
THE, LAST VIsit TO BETHLEHEM HOS-
PITAL.
EvIL as Hartley was, and though he
had followed hie brother, during so
many years, with bitter; relentless
persecution, that brother mournedhi s
untimely end. ,But it was' feeling of
terror and awe, rather than of sorrow,
which oppressed Hester and Julie, when
they heard of thetragic occurrence.
Ere the scene described in our last
chapter took place, the bill of -
change held by Hartley had been paid,
andlthe day was now come when the
prison doors were to be opened to the
captive.  Ten years had   Somerset
languished within those walls, but free-.

:4                    1"
moo"

would not be carried forth from  a
prison." One silent, contemptuous
look he cast at the unhappy attorney,
and moved to the door of the cell; he
passed out, and Pike, much to his
relief and satisfaction, found himself
alone.
That evening, when all was calm and
quiet in the Temple, and the lawyers.
had closed their offices-when the dews
were lightly falling on the -shrubs and
flowers in the Temple Gardens, and
the first stars were shedding down their
silver threads of light on the old hall,
.the p saying fountain, and the church
where the dust of centuries is laid=-
the report of a pistol was heard. It
proceeded from chambers in the King's
Bench-*alk. and a porter, hastening
up the stairs, found Hartley on the
floor. The ball had entered a vital
part, but, as the porter raised the bleed-
ing -man, he still breathed.
" Tell people I committed this act-
pshawl you need not fetch a surgeon;
it is of- no use. Somerset-" he'
gasped, endeavoring to raise his hand,
"my enemy--it is your turn to triumph
now; so moves round the wheel'of
inevitable fate!"
lIe sank back-; his fierce and malig
nant eye grew diim; and the unhappy
Hartley-the mnan whose nature disapa
'pointed love had changed almost into
a demon's-the brooding recluse-the
'incarnation of a revengeful spirit-ha&amp;
ceased to breathe.

}
,a
i
E
un

m


182

HE S T ER &amp; S OMERSET. S

dom had arrived, at last. The morning  "1 have reason to be cheerful, Mar-
was fair, and the sun shone as brightly tin," answered Hester,: unwilling to
as it could shine through the atmo- cheek the old man's -garrulity; "n y
sphere of the cityhen he took leave father will not return to the - place
of the turnkeys of the Fleet....He grasp- where, you know, he has been detained,
ed old Reuben's hand with the warmth so long."
and affection of a true friend; and Julie  "Is it then so? God bless you, sir;
kissed his rough cheek again and againandnd forgive a-poor man like me wishing
assuring him, he was still her foster- you joy. I have .heard the story-'tis
father, and that she would often come the dear child that has-done it-'tis her
and see him.                       noble work.   You have an: angel in
Free! IFree ! With what a buoyant that-daughter, your honor, believe me.
step the grayheaded man walked off It'is now nine years and upwards since
between his two daughters! The houses I began to let her in throughthat gate,
looked gayer, the people's faces hap- and here she is still, never a-weary
pier than formerly-he thought it was coming to see her poor mother. I had
to welcome him. The heavens, too, a daughter once, so like her-gentle,
seemed to smile upon them,. and the kind, and loving; but she. is gone,"
very pavement on whichtheytrod added the poor man, stooping his head;
spread to their fancy fairer and smooth- "she's in a better place now, and I have
er than it had appeared to do before, no comfort but her memory in the
Free I free ! The sense of liberty, the world."
assurance that non black walls, locks,  Mr. Somerset said a kind and sooth-
and bars were to shut him out any ing word to the childless man, .and
longer from the breathing world, filled passed on with his daughters to the
his heart with thankfulness and exu- asylum.
berant joy. How proud, too,- was lie  All there wore much the same aspect
of those children I-Julie, the lost one, as when we visited the spot with Hes-.
and Hester, to whose, energy,. perse- ter some years before. Several-patients.
verance, and unconquerable spirit, he had left; new ones had been admitted; .
owed his release. Oh, yes iMr. Somer, and others had. passed with their; dis-
set now felt the true :magic of that tempered brain through the- portals of
word-liberty. He was free! he was death. The ruined merchant, whom
free!                              we described, was still there, not tired
They took lodgings' in a .pleasant yet of counting his ships, n'nd piling
part of London. The old man looked his imaginary heaps of gold. But the.
around his room, made cheerful and young girl who had been forsaken by
comfortable by the busy hands of her lover had left the asylum cured,
his daughters, and rendered happy by and was happy, for he loved her now,
their happy faces. What was want- and they were married. The ambitious-
ing to complete his satisfaction ?  The author, too, writhing in madness under
presence of another-the partner of the neglect ofthe world, had regained
his life. The chair she should have the brightness of his soul. He had
filled by his side was vacant; and yet exchanged;his cell for a quiet and ele-
Isabella lived.                     gant study. The world, that had been
"We will go," said Mr. Somerset to deaf so long, heard him  at length;
his daughters; "it is right Julie should fashion had whispered his ,name, and
see her. She recognizes you, Hester, the works in: which no one{yesterday
and your voice has always-a soothing could see anything, good or beautiful.
effect upon her. Oh! that she. could no -person to-day could sufficiently
remember me ! How would it rejoce praise.:
my heart if only shewould call me by  The father and his children were
mynamel But,mychildren,wewillgo." introduced into. the room where ;Mrs.
The-porter opened the gates in front Somerset was lodged.  They  trod
of Bethlehem  Hospital.. He always gently, and, without speakiiig, station-
displayed more than his accustomed ed themselves at a short-distance from
alacrity when he admitted Hester,'for her. She wasstill habited in the dress
he had begun to regard her almost like, of the establishment, but-the long-gray
his own child.                      robe,.fitting closely to=her shape, be-
" Good-day miss ; glad I am to see came her well. Her luxuriant black
you look morecheerful than usual." hair had remained unshorn, anst amidst

s't

183

it still the poor admirer of flowers wore that - Hartley is dead?" cried Mrs.
her fragile rose.                   Somerset, with vehemence. Suddenly
Insanity had notemaciated her form, she dropped on her knees, clasped her
or rendered her features haggard. hands, and her lips moved as in prayer.
Though age was now stealing. upon The nurse was astonished at an action
her, her commanding beauty was un- she had never witnessed before, and
impaired. Her manner was. tranquil, the others regarded her with breathless
subdued, pensive, and her whole ap- interest. After a fewminutes, she arose
pearance was that of a nun-a Sister with a look of .composure and dignity:
of Charity-rather than of a person of "Then the blackest man that God ever
disordered intellect. - She was engaged suffered to walk this world has left it
in embroidery-work, and, bending over at last. I thank Heaven that such has
it, was so entirely occupied by the task, been its will; I shall live now without
that, for some minutes, she did not re- fear for myself and my child, Who--
mark the presence of the visitors,  ever you are, sir," she exclaimed, ad-
Here are some friends, ma'am, to dressing Mr. Somerset, " I will no long-
see you, said the nurse.            er believe you an enemy. You look
With instinctive politeness the in- too kind to do me or my child an injury.
sane woman rose from her chair; Mr. But who.is this ?" she continued, look-
Somerset advanced cautiously before ing atJulie-" this young person? what
his daughters, and took his wife's hand does she here?"
in his.                               "Mother," said Hester, "she is a
"Isabella!" he said, venturing only dear friend-one whois greatlyattached
to pronounce her name.              to me."
She looked at him, shrank back, and  "Then for loving you, I will love her,
shuddered.-Come here, little one-pardon me for
Are you come once more to perse- looking bsointo your face. Fair is your
cute and torment me? I have told you hair, I see, and blue are your eyes. Ah!
again and again how I abhor and de- it is a fancy; I am in a dream, and yet
spise you. Wretched man, leave me I" I am not in my bed ; tell me, nurse,
Sad was the countenance of the hus- am I in my bed? How much, girl, you .
band, as he gazed mildly and beseech- resemble iy daughter Hester!"
ingly on her.   - "Mother," said Julie, "I may-well
Dear mother !"said Hester; "this is be a little like Hester, for Iiam her sis2
no enemy--you mistake; this is my ter."' Mrs; Somerset looked vacantly,
father-your own husband-Hugh--"    yet wonderingly around.
"Poor child, good child, you wish to  "What did you say?"
deceivevme.  Come here,. Hester, for: "That I am Hester's sister, and your
you I know and love. Take off your own child."
hat, and let me look at your bright  "Ha, hal"- laughed the mother ;
hair-so--thank, you; how happy you "poor dreamer ! I have only one child;
look, and how joyfully shine your eyes.! but I will love you, I repeat, for Ies-
You are my child, my only friend; why ter's sake."
do you, then, ever leave me-here alone?  " Isabella," said Mr. Somerset, "can
You once lived with me ; others, too, you remember, long, long ago, that
who are lost, made a happy family, your eldest child was taken, from you?
Oh! yes,.I was happy then.         Thinkof Brookland Hall--call to your
"Dear mother, I wish to live with mind an infant-"---
you," said Hester; "'we all anxiously  Mrs. Somerset. placed her hand on
desire never to be parted fromyou."  her forehead, and appeared.striving to
Hush! hush!" said the poor woman  waken:thoughts thatsomewhere'were
under her breath; ,how can we live sleeping in her disordered brain. Half
together?  Hartley, yonder, will still of her mental 'malady seemed to have
persecute me,                      been an, utter- forgetfulness of persons
",Pause, Isabella-reflect; look at and events; but, the end of:the chii
me," said Mr. Soierset,. "and you will of memory once caught, the links might
not mistake me for that man, I am  be continued,and thus scene afterseene,-
not Hartley ;'he is no more; alas! .Ro- and face after face, might become fami-
land Hartley, my brother, is in the liar again.
grave."                              "Brookland Hall where is that?
"You mean, then, t say he is dead- Stay, I know it-I think 17 lived there

I.~

-              r.           IL                    -- ---     -J

HESTER, S 0 MERSE.T.

N           Ml


m

184,

HESTE.R SOMERSET.

once; it was a lovely spot, the fine old
house-"
"And the oak drawing-room, the
terraces, the gardens," said Mr. Somer-
set, assisting her, "the quiet lawn, and
the clumps of trees-"-
" Yes, yes; but how should you know
this, sir?"-
" The-infant that was carried away,
and the fruitless search for it in Lon-
don."
"Oh, yes, I remember all; that time
comes back to me now like a dream
long forgotten. - What have I been
doing all these years?"A
Mr. Somerset made a sign to Julie,
who drew close to her mother.
" Isabella! that infant had a peculiar
inark on the arm; here, look here; say,
will not this prove what we have
stated?"
Mrs. Somerset stooped, and, looking
at Julie's arm attentively, seemed lost
in thought. The web. of reason was
evidently disentangling itself-one idea,
prompted another; trifles sometimes
are impressed on the brain, when the,
recollection of great events is oblite-
rated,-and smallincidents will bring
about what years of training and dis-
cipline may have failed to accomplish.
The poor woman took Julie's hand;
she also seized Mr. Somerset's, while
Hester stood close behind them. She
looked, bewildered, from one to- the
other, as if some light, for the first
time was pouring in upon her soul.
" What does this mean?" she cried,
in a breathless accent. "You tell me
this is Hester's sister; I am assured of-
it now-she is my lost child! A veil
seems-to be drawn back, and scales to-
fall from:my eyes. The whirling and
ringing have ceased in my brain, and,
1, appear to be a new being, full of new
thoughts, feelings, and energy. My
child, my little one!- you shall share-
my heart with Hester; and you shall
both comfort your wretched - no!
wretched no longer-you shall, both be
a delight to your restored-and happy
mother.. Ah, blind that I was," she
continaed,:turning to Mr. Somerset-.
"blind that I was'; but I see you-I
know you now. - Hugh, High, -my
husbandI1"
And the wife rushed into the open-
arms of him who felt a rapture beyond
the power of words.to express -
"She is weeping," said the nurse.

"This is the first time I have seen her
in tears. No sign could be better."
And weeping, sobbing, she remained,
nor did they strive to check that soft-
ened and tender grief. It was human,
and betrayed that the functions of the
mind and the fount of feeling had
awakened from their torpid state. Yes,
memory had' first been roused, and its
beautiful mechanism, as it were,' being
readjusted, imparted life and action to
the reasoning powers: the godlike soul
again claimed her sway, and Mrs. So-
merset's intellectual faculties, by a pro-
cess simple as effective, werecomplete-
ly restored. The next day she left the
walls of Bethlehem Hospital, never to
enter them again.
CHAPTER XXIV.
RESTER AND THE~TEoPESSoR or MUSIC-
WE TAKE oURF AREWELL OF R. PIKE.
Mn. SOMERSET, we have elsewhere
observed, had 'felt very reluctant 'for
his daughter to appear before a public,
audience, even as a singer at concerts;
but, fortunately, Mr. Kellerman's repre-
sentations, and Hester's earnest wishes
in connection with her great object, had-
borne down his scruples. What was
she now to do? continue the career ,say
successfully begun? Her own feelings
were as much adverse- as the feelings,
of her father to a line of lfe that una-
voidably placed her-in a public position.
Yet her engagement with the musical
professor could not be broken. Mr.
ellerman's good faith, the pains he
had taken with her as a pupil, and his
unvarying kindness, were also claims:
upon her no less strong than those of
honor. Hester, then, was to sing an-
other season under the name previous-
ly assumed, the professor, as agreed,
receiving half her gains.
The duty was entered on; but more'
and more the sensitive and, retiring
nature of Hester turned- with aversion
from apublic exhibition of her talents.
Happy, indeed, was she when her last
piece was sung, and-her last instalment
of money placed'into the Mands of Mr.'
Kellenrman. I taking leafe of that
gentleman, she- expressed, herself in-
terms of the warmest gratitude; Mr.
-Somerset equalled his daughter in the
fervor with which he acknowledged his

HESTER SOMERSET.

obligations, and hoped, so long as h
lived, that he should be honored by th
acquaintance of one who had prove
himself to be his true friend and bene
factor.
Meantime, the trial of Mr. Pike hat:
come on at the-Old Bailey; but in spite
of all his talented pleading--for he de
fended his own cause-in spite-of hi
innocent and demure looks, and the
grievous wrongs which the deceased
Hartley and other evil men, in shori
the combined world, had showered
upon his head, he, Mr.: Pike, the inof-
fensive old man, whose only aim had
been-" and surely, gentlemen of the
jury," he said, "it can't be called a
crime"-whose only aint had been to
make a comfortable provision for his
decliningyears-this excellent old man,
we say, was found guilty of common
housebreaking and an atrocious robbery.
The judge passed sentence on the de-
fender of English laws, the once
respectable fundholder, and the man
who had been such an active member
of the Fraud-Preventing Society; that
sentence was - "Transportation be-
yond the seas for the term of his natu-
ral life!"
Mr. Pike did not bear his fate with
the equanimity and fortitude which
might have been expected from a man
of his education, and one who had been
engaged in so many undertakings of
spirit and.daring  He shed tears one
minute, and shook his fiats at the judge
and jury the next. But it was of no
avail; his sorrow and his ferocious in-
dignation were alike useless. They
took him out of the court, and barred
the respectable old gentleman in his
cell; they took him away to the hulks,
and in due time transferred him to the
convict-ship. There they chained him'
to another felon, who proved to be the
man of Greyhound-alley, whom    he
once served with a letter, threatening
prosecution for his. maltreatment of
the costermonger's donkey. So the
ruffian was to be his companion, and
now, resolving to be revenged, swore
and grinned at him, and mocked the
sorrows of the fallen attorney. He
asked Mr. Pike what had become, of
his office, and his papers tied with red
tape, and all the poor lawyer could
return in reply was to call him a foul
insulting demon; he asked the ex-fund-
holder what had become of his proper-
.ty--and all the hard-working, penuri-

185

ous gentleman could do was to gnash
his teeth, and howl out curses on his
tormentor and those who had robbed
him. So, while in this situation, one
fine morning the vessel weighed anchor,
and our old friend and companion-he
who has accompanied us through so
many scenes of this history-set out on
his pleasant voyage to the far-off land
of Botany Bay.

CHAPTER XXV.

UNFORGOTTEN LOVE-THE coNFESSIoN.
TEN years' imprisonment had unfit-
ted Mr. Somerset for any active duties ;
though his health was pretty good, his
frame had become enfeebled. He was,
however, cheerful, and the restoration
of his wife to the full enjoyment of heir
faculties was a source to him of su-
preme happiness. . Still, it appeared
that on Hester devolved the task of
supporting her parents; Julie, who
had obtained a situation, uld do little
more than provide for h rself. Hester
commenced teaching     sic in private
families, and having no  nger any ene-
mies to contend with, her  ils steadi-
ly increased. Such a life   'ght be
laborious, but she greatly prefe edthe
duties it imposed to any other ode of
livelihood it had been her fate at dif-
ferent times to follow.
Yet, not unfrequently, a sadness
came over the spirit of the ruined gentle-'
man's daughter, and which neither her'
parents nor Julie were able to account
for. The great object for which she had
labored was obtained; the plans that
hitherto had put her faculties on the
stretch wereunneeded now; theturmoil,
thefears, the bitter disappointments and
sorrows, all were over.  Why, -then,
was she not happy? ,In the 'absence
of excitement, the spirit had time to
think, and the past rose before her.
There was an image impressed on her
heart. Like the characters traced irm
sympathetic ink, though they may re-
main for years invisible, yet, place
them before the fire, bow the lines
spring into sight, as if by the spell of a
magician! So the image on the heart
of Hester, never obliterated, though
none knew of its existence, was. now
called forth in vivid colors by.quiet
and contemplation. It waste image

L    T , TI  I

p


186

HESTER SOMERSET.

k
r
i
}f
F
f
t
1
s3
t
4j3
Y
i
3
3
f
{{y  .
{j$i}
Ct
1
f
I
3
j j
rt
{
$}
{4
i
t
4
i'
r Lyy
N'
1
t
F
3
i
r
r
i
t
y
3
f
c
1
k
F
i
g
l f
t
3

of one with whom her early dreams
and young affections were entwined-
the image of one she strove to forget,
but could not-the image of one loved
in girlhood's days, when scarcely she
knew what love meant, and whose
memory still, through tie mist of years,
shone like a star. Talk not of the fick-
leness of woman, nor say the love of
her childhood will never survive the
joyous spring-time of life; marvel ra-
ther at her constancy, and confessthat
love, then formed, is the blossom of the
heart-a blossom which In time pro-
duces the full and perfect fruit.
"Father, again you ask me why I am
unhappy. I will conceal nothing from
you; I will confess my folly-for- such
it is. -Bear with me; do not condemn
me, although I may deserve reproof."
"Reproof! never, my child--my bene-
factor-never shall you receive reproof
from me."
As Mr. Somerset sat in his chair,
Hester leant forwards, and rested her
head on his arm. Oh how he loved
her The idolatry of his affection might
even be a sin, but the blot of such a
sin the "recording angel" would surely
wipe out with the tears of mercy and
pity.
"Do you think he is still alive?"
asked the girl, looking up.
"Who alive, Hester? I do not knovt
what person you mean."
"Ah! how could I suppose you
should? So many years have passed,
and I have not even mentioned to.you
his name. I thought, too, at one time,
I had forgotten him ; but I was mis-
taken.  Well, father, you remember,
long ago, when we lived at Brookland
Hall-"
Ashade overspread the countenance
of Mr. Somerset; he turned in his chair
and sighed. Brookland Hall, the seat
of his ancestors, but long in the posses-
sion -of strangers-what thoughts of
happy hours, and pursuits of former,
days, did the name call up in the breast
of the ruinedman!--the oldElizabethan
pile, the venerable rooms and family
paintings, the slopes, the gardens,-the
trees, and sweeping park-:-the picture
rose before his fancy in all the fresh-
ness of reality. But not for him-
never again for him-must the scene
spread its beauties; his eyes must close
far away, and he must not even sleep
in the old church where his forefathers
for centuries have reposed..  --

HESTER SOMERSET.

Mr. Somerset stooped his head, and
covered his face with his hands:- '
"Go on, Hester," he said, after a
pause. "What of Brookland Hall?"
"You remember one of your tenants
called Banks? He had a son, placed
by you in the village school."
"I recollect perfectly. Yes, I think
too much and too often of Brookland
Hall for any incident of old times to-
escape my memory.    Banks--Lewis
Banks, that was the lad's name-a bold
little fellow, who called once at the
hall, begging to be sent to school-a
lad of most precocious intellect, smitten
with the love of military life, forgetting
to drive the oxen 'afield,' or hoe pota-
toes, in his ardor to read Vauban on
'Fortification' and the battles of Marl-
borough. You see my memory is good,
Hester."
"I rejoice at it, father.  But you
sent him away afterwards, and dared
him to trespass upon your grounds."
"So: I did, poor youth; yet was I
sorry in being compelled to do it.
Bless me! I had almost forgotten that
little circumstance. He took it into
his head to love you, I believe, child.
At that time I considered such a thing
daring and presumptuous on his part;
and, of course, situated as we then
were, I was justified in my sentiments.
But, Hester, why do we allude to all
this now? What have the fortunes of
a peasant's son to do with ours?"
"He went to aforeign land. He wrote
me several letters ; but when Brookland
.Hall was taken from us, none of his
letters, if any more arrived, reached me
in London.- So perhaps he is dead, or
has-has forgotten me."--  -
A low sob burst from Hester; and
when Mr. Somerset raised his child
from her stooping posture, he saw that
her face was bathed with tears. Then
he knew her secret; then he understood
the cause of her melancholy--a love
that was ill placed and without hope.
" Do not yield to this -distress. I-
will not, I cannot reprimand you,"
said the old man tenderly. "Yet little;
did  I imagine these   recollections
and early feelings would be cherished
by you during so many years. Bit
whether such constancy be a weak-
ness or a virtue, your peace of mind
and your welfare in life demand that
you should make efforts to conquer an
attachment which, in any case, can
bring you no-happiness. Most proba-

bly-I feel it my duty to speak plainly
-the young man is dead. If he be
alive, good conduct or cleverness may
have advanced him to the rank of' a
corporal or a sergeant; but with such
a person, you are aware, no female
much above a menial servant could
form an alliance. Therefore, I repeat,
consult your mind and your judgment'
in this matter rather than your heart.
Renounce feelings that can only be a
source of disquiet, and forget that such
a person as this poor youth ever ex-
isted."
" I will strive, father ; but your ad-
vice will be difficult-very difficult--
to follow. One thing let me say ; the
mind of Lewis Banks was not the
mind of an ordinary person ; it was
noble by nature. And I will believe
But it is enough. Let us speak
no more of a subject which crushes
my spirit, while it" gives you pain.
Father," said Hester, after a pause, "I
have a favor to ask of you.",
"A favor ? What would I not grant
or do for you, my child ?"
"I have long wished-my mother
and Julie, too, are very desirous-we
have long wished to godown to Nor-
folk, just to see the place where we
passed so many years-to look once
more on the well-known spots, and the
old house---"
" What? go to Brookland Hall ?"
said Mr. Somerset, who turned pale,
while his lip quivered-" the house-
that was once mine, but- is now ano-
ther's-the place so dear to my heart
that scarcely a night has passed for
twelve years without my dreaming of
it?  Oh, no!" he cried, waving his
hand ; " I could not bear the trial--I
could not support the sight !"
" Now  you are mistaken, father.
You would be soothed and gratified ; I
feel confident of it. And perhaps the
present owner is a kind' man, and
might allow us to look over the rooms.
Let us pay a visit to Brookland Hall."
Mr. Somerset remained for a con-
siderable time without speaking. At
length he raised his head.
" Well, Hester, I confess that, while
I have shrunk at the thought, I have
sometimes longed to see that spot
again. -There is a strange fascinating
interest about the home of my ances-
tors which attracts me to it. I will
see the old hall again, and the sweet
village, and the venerable iviedahurch,

187

before I die. Yes, we will go down to
Norfolk."
CHAPTER XXVI.
IN WHICH OUR HISTORY DRAWS TO A
CONCLUSION.
IT was a beautiful afternoon in
spring when Mr. Somerset, his- wife,
and two daughters, alighted from the
stage-coach near the village of - , in
Norfolk. They stood upon the slope
of the well-known hill, contemplating
in silence the scene before them.
Lovely and picturesque, as in former
days, spread the verdant landscape.
The warm sun, shining obliquely from
the west, tinged with yellow light the
tops of the tall elms that rose around
the old Norman church, and threw its
lustre on the stream which wandered
away in the direction of Brookland
Hall. The clear song of the black-
bird was heard from the thicket, and
the low of cattle came softly from the
opposite hill.
The little party walked into the vil-
lage.- Every step they took awoke
some old remembrance, except in the
breast of Julie ; yet she, having been
born in the neighborhood, could not
consider herself a stranger ; faces,
however, were altered ; the merry
young children that had gambolled
under the trees had grown into sturdy
peasants, and the old slept in the vii.
lage churchyard.
They entered the cottage where Mr.
Somerset's tenant, honest Banks, had
lived; he and his wife were no more,
and the sexton occupied the hovel.
Mr. Somerset differed so greatly in
appearance from the jovial and. rosy
squire of a former day, that a recog-
nition seemed improbable; even Hes-
ter and her mother might not have
been remembered, but they took the
precaution to draw their veils closely
around their faces.
The sexton was verycomplaisant, con-
sidering himself honored by this visit
from strangers. "You seem tired,
sir," he said. " And will the ladies be
pleased to rest themselves on this set-
tle? 'tisarough and poor seat, I confess.
Any business, sir ?"
"No," answered Mr. Somerset, en-

J
""   Y.
4

r
r y.
r  ,  y
'T
az
1
F^ r4
y
c
Y.
'.. Y
h
II}}
Tr~'p
"

k
g
Y
Q
F
B

Jll .


188

HESTER SOMERSET.

,
f
s
2.
r
x
F
a
S
a
4
4
t).
1

HESTER SOMERSET.

189

deavoring to calm his feelings; "my  They wandered on, until they found
visit is merely one of curiosity. ,We themselves in front of the mansion.
knew this sweet neighborhood well in Mr. Somerset cast a rapid glance over
former years."                    the building, every window of which,
That was, may-be, in the old every rusticated quoin, every arch,
squire's time. Heaven bless him, be every stone, seemed dear to his heart.
he dead or alive! Ah I sir, he was a They  were about to retire, when
man loved by us all."              Hester's quick eye, which had been
" Who," asked Mr. Somerset, shad- directed to the library-window, perceiv-
ing his face with his hand --" who ed a gentleman within, apparently en-
occupies Brookland Hall at present ?" gaged in reading.
"Why, you see it has had two or    "Father, look yonder! that is Colonel
three owners since Squire Somerset left. Gordon, no doubt."
About six-months ago,ha very rich    Mr. Somerset saw  him. Strange,
man came into these parts, and bought but at that moment his thoughts
up Brookland estate, the manor-house, flashed back on an incident which had
and all ; and a main curious gentle- happened long, long ago. There, just
man he is, though kind to the poor."  in that position, had he been studying
And why is he curious?" asked fifteen years before, when, on the steps
Mr. Somerset.                      of the front door, he perceived the
"You see he's come from the East little peasant boy, Lewis Banks, who
Ingies, is Colonel Gordon -a - fine had come'to entreat him to place him
handsome man, though burnt up by in the village-school; his cap was in
the sun, and cut about the face with a his hand-the porter was driving him
great many scars. He's been in a away; but these retrospective medi-
number of hot battles, they say, in tations. were disturbed, for Colonel
that country."                     Gordon, having evidently seen the
But why should this render him. strangers, rose to ring his bell; the
curious, good old man?" asked lIes- next minute the hall-door opened, and
ter'                               a footman approached them.
" ,'Anan ?  Oh!I you spoke, miss.  "Sir, my master say-s if you wish to
Well, you see the colonel isn't mar- see the inside of the house, and the old
ned, and all them bachelors are 'cen- paintings in the gallery, you are quite
tric and- queer. He'll walk by moon- at liberty."
light for hours, say the servants, along  Mr. Somerset was embarrassed; his
the terrace and under the- trees in the hand shook with emotion, and he
park ; while, instead of hunting or glanced. at his wife and daughters.
riding about, half his day is passed  "Do as you please, my dear," said
moping in an old ruined grotto made of Isabella; "but we should very much
spars and shells in the garden. Then like to see the rooms."
he has begun to build another house at  "Thank you," said Mr. Somerset to
the top of the valley, nobody knows the man ; "then we will avail our-
why or wherefore. Some say, too, he selves of Colonel Gordon's kind per-
wants to- find the old, squire, and put mission."
him again in possession; and that for  As they entered the hall, Mr. Somer-
a total stranger to do for another, is, I set started at seeing the portrait of his
think, the oddest thing of all."   grandfather, which he thought had
Quitting the garrulous sexton, the passed into the possession of strangers.
party proceeded at once to the manor- But Colonel Gordon, attracted, per-
house, which was situated about a mile haps, by the venerable appearance of
from the village. .Applying at the theold gentleman, now introduced him-
lodge, the keeper informed them they self to them, as if for the purpose of
had liberty to walk in the grounds. being their cicerone. He was a man in
Many a sigh did old familiar objects the prime of life, and, notwithstanding
call forth from Mr. Somerset. Tha the scars on his forehead, and the
fields that spread around them, the change which the burning suns -of the
park, studded over with trees, the East rarely fail to effect in the counte-
shrubberies, and the gardens-all had nance of a. European, remarkably
been his own; and here once he was handsome.
lord and master, while now he felt   "You seem struck by that portrait!"
himself an intruder and austranger- observed the c lonel.

f

~                                        ply'                            r            "r             i                                            1            Y        i                               r

"I am," said Mr. Sorberset, in a lives?" asked Colonel Gordon,-eager
low voice, "for I knew the original." ly.
"Indeed! then come into my library,  "I do."
and see whether you are acquainted   "Bless my soul! What is his ad-
with any of the pictures there. To dress ?"
tell you the truth, I have taken much  "Pardon me if I do not answer the
gains, since my purchase of Brookland question," said Mr. Somerset, greatly
all, to collect the old family portraits moved.
that belonged to a former owner, for  Women are not, perhaps, so easily
they had been sold without reserve to deceived as men, and, more quickly
Jews and picture-dealers."         than they, recollect individual features,
"This is one of his eccentricities, however altered. Whether. Hester
father, alluded to by the sexton," was affected by a strange misgiving as
whispered Hester, as they followed the to the identity of Colonel-Gordon, or by
colonel into his library.           other feelings, we cannot say ; but
Several portraits were hung around her agitation was increasing to such a
the room, perfectly familiar to Mr. degree that she retired to a recess in a
Somerset ; but presently they came to window, and pressed her hands against
a ,picture carefully veiled by a curtain; her throbbing temples.
this being removed, an exquisite paint- "If, Colonel Gordon," said Mr. So-
ing was discovered of a girl about merset, "you will be candid enough to
twelve years of age.                tell me your motive for wishing to
" Do you know who this is?" asked discover or drag these unfortunate
Colonel Gordon, with no little anxiety people into notice-for, though unfor.
in his manner, for he believed he had tunate, they are proud--I' may assist
met at last, in the gentleman before you in your search."
him, with some member, or at least ac-  "Then, my dear sir, I will be candid;
quaintance, of the lost family so long and, to gain your confidence, while I
sought by him in vain,              expect you to be communicative in re -
"That," replied Mr. Somerset, sink- turn, I will state the fact that the
ing into a chair, apparently through money which has enabled me to pur-
fatigue-" that picture, I have reason chase this property was not all ac-
tobelieve, the former occupier of this quired by the sword. I rose in the
house would never have parted  with, army from a very low, beginning, and .
had it not been taken from him almost not by purchase. Three years ago, I
by force. It is -a portrait of Mr. had but an officer's pay, and also
Somerset's daughter"                bore another name. But a gentleman
"You know all, my dear sir; I seeof large fortune at Calcutta, and who
you know all," said the soldier, with had no family of his own, took a fancy
increased warmth. "I hope you may to me, and made mehis heir on the
be able to give me little further inform- proviso that I should assume his name.
action concerning this rejected but t was after returning from a campaign
most unfortunate family."          in the north of India that I followed
the   r   nfruae" si      mtery patron to the grave.. His property
They are unfortunate, said the then was mine. I returned toEng-
o h gentleman, with a deep sigh.  land ; and this, sir, is my native place.''
"I have written letters and employ-  "Your native place?  Impossible!
ed lawyers to Ao purpose. ' All I have There is no other seat or good residence,
ascertained is that, about a year and but the manor-house, in the' neighbor-
a half ago, Mr. Somerset was- libe- hood."
rated--my heart bleeds to think he "Nay, nay," said Colonel Gordon,
:#ap ever in such a 'place-from. the smiling, "I was not borm in a 'seat,'
Fleet Prison. Since that time all clue or any proud mansion. But we will
of him and his family has been lost." not talk of that now. My object in
"Very likely. An obscure person, finding the old squire is simply to
in an obscure street in the great place into his hand a packet."
metropolis, is almost like a shell on  "This is strange !" exclaimed Mr.
the sea-shore. It is not very extra- Somerset, in surprise. "I confess I
ordinary you should have failed to dis- am interested in his affairs. What
cover him."'                       may the packet contain? Shall I take
"Then do you know where he really it to him ?"

r ;,
s
.  ;
-'
. t ,
a;
hM1r,
Aj
}
:J
V^+:

I


4M -7       ;

190

HESTER SOMERSET.

r
k
r'd
Ka.
,i2
a.
3
e
c.
Y
sS
7
t
Y+

An extraordinary expression broke
over the countenance of the soldier, as
if, while he witnessed the old man's
emotion, a sudden light had flashed
upon him.
"lBe not offended," he said, taking
the poor gentleman by the hand, " but
I am no longer to be deceived. Thank
Heaven, my search is finished at last I
This packet is for yourself; for, honor--
ed and respected sir, you are Mr.
Somerset."
" What does this mean ? ~How should
you know me? The parcel,,too-
Why, these are the title-deeds of the
Brookland estates, and-and--  You
mock me, Colonel Gordon."
But as the open-hearted soldier re-
garded him with moistened eyes, Hes-
ter, who had retired to the window-
recess, was heard to sob violently, and
the next minute, overcome by her con-
flicting feelings, she .sprang towards
her parent.
"Father! father ! look at him!--do'
you not know your generous friend ?"
"Yes, Mr. Somerset," said Colonel
Gordon, "you see before you the once
poor ploughboy, that, many years ago,
you kindly consented to place=in-the,
village-school."
know it-I see it now !" cried
the ol man. "Brave, noble-hearted
Lewis Banks ! Heaven, then, has
smiled on you indeed! "
"Not more, I hope, than Heaven
will from this hour smile on you, my
dear sir; for surely Providence means
well in having thus, when we little ex-
pected it, brought us together again."
And now came explanations of past
events, pressings of the title-deeds on
Mr. Somerset, and, at last, their ac-
ceptance : then followed allusions to
early affection on the part of Colonel
Gordon, showing how, times without
number, he had written to England,
his letters, from a good cause, having
failed to reach their destination; while
Hester, wishing to spare him pain, had
never, informed him of the ruin which
had overtaken the family.
This conversation at length came to
a close. Mr. and Mrs. Somerset, with
Julie, walked into the room beyond,
examining the paintings there; but
Hester, gently objecting though not
unwilling, for some unaccountable-rea-
son fund herself detained by Colonel
Gordon ; she tqlso heard him, in low,

HESTER SOMERSET.

Iy
y- ^

191

ral pursuits he was often assisted by and trials in our "great metropolis,"
Julie, who never failed every day to was blest in performing two parts har-
visit her foster-father. From the park, monizing with her loving nature-the
too, they could plainly see the new    part of a dutiful and affectionate
mansion built by Colonel Gordon ; and daughter, and that of a faithful, devot-
there Hester, after all her struggles ed wife.

tremulous accents, urge many things
about first and only love, and con-
stancy never shaken; so that, quite
unexpectedly, and, as it were, unknown
to- herself, her eyes filled with tears,
and her trembling hand was clasped in
his.
When Mr. Somerset returned to the
room, he soon perceived- how matters
stood, and the colonel begging to speak
privately with him, the old gentleman,
then and there, without hesitation, con-
sented to give his daughter to one she-
had loved as a peasant boy, and who
had proved himself to be as generous
and noble as he was endowed with
abilities and genius-genius which,
triumphing over-all obstacles, had
raised him to the rank he now enjoyed.
The good father pronounced his bless-
ing upon them ; and it were difficult
to say which heart of the respective
persons who made up that pleasing
group overflowed with the most intense
happiness.
On the following day, when it was
known in the village and among the
surrounding peasantry, that the good
squire and his family had returned to
them once more, old and young, linked
together, walked up to the manor-
house to welcome them back; and for
days afterwards there was nothing but
feasting and ringing of bells.
What has the.chronicler now to add,
ere he writes "end" to his history? It
is this*while the once bitter-souled
Hartley slumbered in his grave ; while
Abercrombie, the swindling director of
the Great Diamond Company of Brazil,
having spent all the money he carried
off, begged his bread in a foreign land;
while the poor girls in the Regent-
street establishment, governed by Ma-
demoiselle' Harfleur, continued to toil
and to die-; while Mr. Moses, the pic-
ture-dealer of the Seven-Dials, indus-
triously persevered in- ,"making the
old masters ;" and while Mr. Pike la-
bored in chains on the shores of a penal
settlement; at Brookland Hall the re-
stored owner passed a peaceful old age,
with his wife and daughter Julie. From
the park they could see a neat cottage
standing at the foot of a green knoll;
there lived Reuben 'and his wife; and
Mr. Somerset had given the-m a plot of
ground for a.garden; the ex-turnkey of
the Fleet revelled among pinks, dahlias,
and peonies- as broad and red as his
own happy face; anid in his horticultu-

THE END.

4A

}

II

1

_                        fJ
~V   !           -lit.:    _, e 6«^   n
_'             s   __


  
             
         
       
   
