
    ----CITATION----
        Robinson, J. H. (John Hovey) (b. 1825). The Maid of the Ranche, or, The Regulators and Moderators .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7614
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The maid of the Ranche, or, The regulators and moderators 
            
               THE

MAID OF THE RANOItE
OR, THE
REGULATORS ANDIQDERAT9KS
I STORY OF LIFE ON THE TEXAN BORbDER

By Dr: J. H. Jobinson,
AUTHOR OF "THE WHITE ROVER," "MARION'S BRIGADE,"
NICK WHIFFLES," "THE GYPSY BRIGAND," &amp;c., &amp;c.
fEW YORK:
PEEUD~lt1    A. BRAD, P1uhliir,
3.. Am= Stweet,

i
f


THE MAID OF TE1ANCII
By Dr. J. H. Robinson.
C H A P T E R I..
TIlE TWO HUNTERS.--AURICOEl HARPER.
THE gentle winds of a cloudless summer morning were sweeps softly over
the Texan prairies. Two men in a small boat were floating down the Brazos
river, occasionally plying the paddle to direct the movements of their diminu-
tive vessel. Both appeared thoughtful, neither in a hurry, but 'surveyed the
shore and surrounding scenery with the nonchalance of persons inured to the
forest.
"The times look rather dubious, and I think that we may.-calculate that
there are breakers ahead," said one of the men deliberately.
"That's the general opinion, and it requires no loic to find it out;" returned.
his -companion.
"Perhaps not, and yet there are many who don't seem to realize it, friend
Manuel," resumed the first speaker.
"There are many stupid people in Texas, as well as elsewhere, Noel Noon,"
added Manuel.
" The storm will burst on us soon, and I shouldn't "mind havin' a-try at the
common enemy myself. A few of our backwoods rifles would tell the blank-
etted ruffians an awful story," said Noel, earnestly..
"I don't perceive that we need trouble ourselves about this war business. Let .
those that want to, fight;it out.- What care weY? The woods are large enough
for us ; if there isn't room enough'here, we han fall back to the Rocky Moun-
tains, where General Cos and his army wouldn't care, to come.
"'You and I differ on this point. I think it our duty to fght for liberty ; be-
side's there'll be some sport in'It. T'There's women and children that ought to
be defended, too."
"Let them that hate w4men and'children tale are of 'em," responded Man-
uel, with a slight chuckle.

11
I

*

4
E,
J
i
5
¢
3
:
ji
x

0

' k     .     i                li,       t
2"
....tit         -      " K

i e   P  y             "


8

Tim MAID OF THE RANCHE.

4 You're not exetly the man I took you for, if them's your feelins. I know
females that I would fight for to the last gasp. Liberty is sometimes repre.-
sented as a woman ; that's very appropriate, for it naturally reminds an honest
feller of theibest and fairest portion of creation," rejoined Noel Noon, decid-
edly.
" Perhaps you're thinking of Iris Rathbun ; it sounds to me oncommonly
like it. I've been wantin' to speak my mind to you on that subject for -a long
time, and I reckon I might as well do it now, and have it -off my hands. It's
po Si, }yokrgo  a c it's o 19    9 ou  op' , tl}a Fve hal ny ey  pn. tlt
gir fter:c cridieb1 itretca  mp, and'4ioul }e w l , 4otto q  fyad%,
of you, not to cross my trail," added Manuel, moodily.
Noel Noon's nether lid curled a litle as he replied but otherwise he gave
no sign that            g ieooticalni    .
" I'm not the man to be frightened by threats, although I can't say that I
ever fixed my thoughts on Iris Rathburn, always considerin' her too much my
superior to think of her as anything more than a friend; but if it wasn't so,
and I aspired to more, all th ehuq e s, trappen apd yillins on 'the Brazos couldn't
frighten me off'the trail ; so the least you say on that subject the better."
" I'm glad you aint inclined that way, for such things sometimes make trou-
V ppag ,g f   ig en; ,b     9 ox9obqy,. $hat te ?pap hocopmpa  etre  me
a        aJgn      e ap 5eiguglof        stir inthe  ori"-
e puoupe      oswo rd. a, aqiqe   a4( full sggin
"  og caa acts y  plage; but let me,tel ylu tyg ilt nt. agoodprineigle
to gp og; ig ge     .igl t  r      . Wt's, y notion, f ia4 na uel that
she'll never have anything to say to you in that way."
cc.      g I  ( gel 9vox '
" For many reason; php' o.qpeeltpdhadsone, has a, largt aogat 9 gbok
larnin,! end.  nteally.gi L b . Tna ure. You u derstan w hat I'e aya ' at,
I take it ?"
" I sig4    n  I pight" et to   napuel,,with  sneer. "You tn'k plain
enough, so far as that's concerned. Perhaps. a  gee ghat you're ,in .,
and perlp9I en't,"
"I wouldn't do anything dishonorable, Manuel Hart."
"I wort dno;g  og   eriled u  a   ti r v Qut i, that way; but,
word for it, Iris Rathbun will 4 aeo fl I ai s4ar"
~' I:    e! gyitoW=       o   .         xe,  YQ   are eivioUs , Isup-
fn,.  yn, o !    u d't  ng  .  a   o en     a onfo , not .
thing,,nor a quaui1 '
'      qip nTpg  pl    e     cel oXn; b t we  ont stop new to argue
t; we'i eleqt Ic t~pore ter-tmp, per ast,
I meant no offence.'
"Bonefla never. do       l lcee o talkin' forever,, in a  y thtis

I

'THE MAID OF THE RANCHE.
right down insulin'. However, let it all go, only remember that Iris is ".
good as engaged) and govern yourself accordingly."
Noel made nb rply, and the "dug-out floated along in, silence for some mo-
ments.-
" Have you eveIr seen thatstrange craft that's cruising about in these wa-
ters ?" demanded Hart, at length.
You allude, if I understand, to that young man who has been seen on the
river lately ?" returned his companion.
"That's what I mean. Can you say anything good of him I"
"I can't say no hurt of him, and that's rather more, I fancy, than can be said
of the majority of people living hereabouts."
41I hope you ain't ,ubbin' hard on me again, in that quiet speech; but that's
neither here nor there. I want to know what you think of the youngsprig.
" Well, to, be candid and speak to the point, I like the, lools of him, He's
straight as a young oak, and seems about as firn in his makes"
"Do you call him good-lookin' ?"
"Yes, that's what I was coming' to."
"We differ there Noeli he appears, in my eyes ~greeniboy, plaiti, enongh~
acd awkward enough, and not experience enough to ;keep him qut f fire and
water. He'd be quite likely -to take a moccasin snake for an eel, and a cypress-
brake for a Texan plantation."
"He carries'a fine rifle and alold front ; and as nice a dog- runs after him
as I have seen for a long time."
"Rifle indeed I what can;he do with a rifle ? Pshaw I' you talk like a green-
horn, Noel Noon. There's no spirit in that chap!; he isn't, fit for this country.
He can't stay here !"
",n't stay here ?"
"uAye, that's the word-ean't "
' And why'not ?"
" Because he isn't wahted."
"Who doii't want him ?"
"I don't fdr one ;: atid theri's others, I dare say, teat will back me up.
"I believe in lettiti' everybody have their own way. I. don't, know who will
be fool-hardy enough to meddle with the -yiing stranger:  He ' behaves well,
and I can'tsee as it's anybody's business how long he stops here."
" It's my liuslnds I The'fact is, he has been at Rathbun's."
"Ah, yes ; I seewhere the shoe pinches.  He's seen the girl,.and there's
jealousf in the camp. If the 'plain; awkward, inexperienned ;boy' should take
a shine that ray, they'll be father pddr-chance for you, I allow, fog he'a much
the best lookin', though I don't say it out of any ill will to you."
Manuel Hart grew red with anget, but managed to choke down any vocal ex-
ptessibn of hisresentient   N
"'YTu have affirmed," resumed.oel " that .e can't usearifle,,now in
estimation, that remains to be proved. The lad is perhaps ss ldfulin tha hie


0Tm MAin or THE RANCH.

as you or 1. I've watched him pretty closely, and concluded at last, that Mau-
rice Harper is no fool."
" It's hard tellin' what a man is now-a-days ; but its evident to me, that he's
go etirely out 'of his reckonin', and has no more knowledge of the country he
is in, than a child ten years old. I know fellers in these parts that can scare
the hair off his head jest by two looks. What does he know about huntin', or
the Regulators, or the moderators ; or, for that matter about this new trouble-
that's brewin' tor us by the way of Santa Anna:?"
"I presume be knows his own business, and that's enough," said Noel, drily
"He'd better 'go! he'd better go ! or he'll find-".
" Finid what?" .
" Find himself regulated or moderated out of the world some fine mornir'."
understandd you now, but let me tell you, that you'd better not attempt
any game like that."
"V ou'll stand up for him, I suppose?" exclaimed Hart,-with a sneer
"I can't say what I'll do, Manuel Hart; but I'll take this opportunity to
warn you to be careful."
" Trust me, I'll be careful-I know how to be careful-I can work as silently
as the spider, and I'llentrap the silly By as surely-yes--yes /:
"I've said all I need say now; jest set the dug-out to the right shore, and I'll
leave you'for the present, hopin' you'll be in-a better mood when we meet next."
Manuel gave a few effectual strokes with the paddle, and the boat shot into
the bank, when Noel Noon, taking his rifle and a small knapsack, stepped on
shore.
" Cultivate more Christian feelings, Manuel," added the hunter, as he adjust
ed the knapsack upon his shoulders, and moved away.
Hart made no reply, but propelled the dug-out once more into the stream:
" He does very well for a hunter ; he can bring down a deer," muttered 'the
backwoodsman, " but Noel Noon ain't the man for this country, exactly; he's
too honest, and honesty is the death of a chap here. I can trust him with all
I'm worth, and feel as safe as if it was in the Bank of"England ; but come to
the case in hand, he ain't the man to play a despenate game where there's a itt-
tie underhand shootin' or drinkin' to be done. That's his failin', and it's one I
can't forgive. There's no great love atween- us now, and'it' won't be long, I
take it, before there'll be absolute hatred, on'my part. I don't like the way he
goes on about this strange, youngster that's driftin' about with his rifle and dog.
I believe the loon is trying to please the Itathbun girls, notwithstanding his as-
sertions to the 'contrary; Well 1'll watch e'm both, and if things don't go to
my mind, they'll' be missed hereabout suddenly. NoelNoon don't know' Manuel
Hart yet; he as no idea; of the power- which I wield, and perhaps he won't till
he feels it."k
Whiile the backwoodsman thus soliloqulsed, the dug-out was drifting slowly.
down the river., A dozen seconds had elapsed, perhaps, after the last word had
left his lips, *hen thesharp report of a rifle echoed through the woods, and a

li
r"
ft

10

1TANMAIn OF. mTE    RAaCH                     '11
bullet struck the boat just forward of the thwart upon which he was sitting, and
passing through the side, fell, spent and hurtless, into the water.
Hart seized his rifle and cast a hurried glance at the shore whence the nex-
pected messenger came. The first object that met his vision, was a young man
ding a short distance from the river, 'quietly loading his rifle.
The sight seemed to madden Manuel beyond endurance, and he instantly
brought leis piece to his shoulder. ' But his hand shook with excitement, and
his aim was unsteady. He was in the act of pressing the trigger, when the
youag man became aware of his intention, and instantly stepped behind' a gi.
gantic cypress. Perceiving that his design was frustrated, Hart lowered his
rifle with a suppressed oath.
" What is your purpose, sir f" asked the young man, stepping into open view
again.
"That's a more proper question for me to ask, I should judge !" retorted
Hart, in a gruff tone.
"Explain," added the young man.
"The affair'don't need any great explanation ; here's the mark of your rifle.
ball in my dug-out plain enough. What you aimed at, I'll leave other folks to
judge ; -but it was evidently not this boat."
"i was not aware that my shot struck your dug-out, certainly. I fired at a
birdion the wing; more for the purpose of getting'rid of an old charge, than
for anything else."
" A very good story to tell off hand, I'll allow, stranger ; but it won't g
down-it won't, by no means. Balls don't fly about in such a careless way,
without being' sent,"'rejoined the forester, in the same unfriendly way.
46I trust, sir, you do not mean to accuse me of an intention to do you mis-.
chief?" said the young hunter, quietly.
"It don't require much stretch of the imagination tounderstand what Imean.
This is rather a serious matter, and it must be settled sooner or later."
" It is not serious unless you chose to make it so. Your dug-out was struck
by mere accident, and you cannot well be angry with me for so slight and unin-
tentional a provocation."
" Every assassin in Texas could make as good a plea eas that, if he should
miss his aim, and hit a dug-out instead of a man. I want satisfaction I"
" I perceive that you are resolved on a quarrel; but answer 'me one question.
How happens it, that if I really had a design on your 'life, did not immiediate-
ly discharge the other barrel, for my rifle is double? What an you, say to that?"'
" That it's a shallow apology for a want of skill. Quite likely the other bar
rel isn't loaded, or i-fused fire. Don't think I shall let du o'ffin this way. I
care as little for a Northern six-footer as I do:foa Texan kangaroo. If you've
got any courage or honor, you'll, promise to meet ,ne, aised and eq ped, a.
-cording to the 'by-laws and regulations of this uncommon land of liberty."
" Speak and tell me what satisfaction you require ?" said the young hunter.
"Nothia' very wonderful-only that we should stand up at a convenient di.


la

e insuch a rlaner as to look right uttaight into the ;mu sles of :eah 4tls
her's rifles, and see thefire and,smoketpne oukand whatever other ixials thae
mnay) appen to he iA 'epni Thsat's al str'angeri'
"I do notsee theleesiyt eta preceding so extraordipary." ,
I dare say not-iaost "kelytot  ,  at  d 4o;iso that makes jnst th '
W y should went oorhies in  ech jperil mesrely on account of sa se
" You paint the fightinli nd, I perceive but yen a' live in this enlightaid
coon ry, without using the ri e snd the  owie-,nife reely. -The wAitefeather
don't do here'; so make up your mind to be perforate v itka  quarter ottierbaI
in due course of time, as soon alajutipeigets8'luady Io doetheightthing"
"Will'nothing short of a meeting of this kind satisfy you, my friend ?"
"lot a bit-of It ; .it must lejest a I have saidor Ishal.spread than-ert
all over Texas that you are a sneak of a coward.";
" Come ashore then, as quickly as'possible," said theshunter, Cllrmnly'and .gne.
what irmperatively.. '+Coms ashoregndl wiligive you all the-otisfaeties To
will ever *ant.",
*Manuel Hart was by no means a manuof poarge ;' bathe liked to v.'b at'
and over-awe where he could, and.-thus esqaire the credit of-much belddesA
*asice Harper, the young .aa with whom h9 we.dealing, appeared ta~hhl
one he ould easily terrify, and he had resolved to take advantage of t e-..
l ,'ty.)
Harper pronounced the ahoe words with soauch reat earnetnesod,
self-possession, be felt considerablyembarrassed and disappointed; for -4as
the last man'to wish to fight with ,an adveraary inas penieltd wheretheasses
were equal.
The thing uist be fairly done wems haye-seconds," he replied .
*We can get along without then; it will' be as fair; for, oursbru T I'
presume you have been engaged in such afairsbefore?":repiedHarper,poatpt-
ly.                '
"This isn't the first, by sixteen, and-I can't say that I ever missed gymo,'
returned Manuel, brayely;althoughbe uttered an ezaggerted falsehood;bing
too careful of his sefpty to give any ope-=n-opportunity of shoqtingg  ..4%
"I go in for order and forqi in these (affairs of honor., ; c uldn't on-m oo-
coiut fight withouta second. Don't be in a, hurry, mister.; there wonthe any
tqo" nich time to arrange your earthly affairsI'll warrant. I shallget .mnaof
Ua  iffends to fix thissiness as it ought to be.- A. daor tqwont matterto
ie, aid rI ather like teides of keepigbyeasis hotvater, thiin' aho  yr
approachn' end," resued Hartina bantering.tone.: ' ,   '.A'
"Have it your own wa7, but be assured tt I-shall nb losamuek  ete--
aceount of it, although I preferto hateit come oft at once. I a p
that there is a  t ealmeres oke about youthan fire; but that'agypo fder
not-   e

MAC . TH ' B.N4EE.

Tag 14A   OF '   RArdrE.
-""Well sO, mister, 'e'll see. 'I'm perfectly willin' you should run of that no.
flo, unt I shall bring you up to the scratch when you don't expect it.- I never
forget a bad tarn, but lay it up till the proper time comes to remembert. When
we. meet again, it's my opinion you wont take the matter so coolly.
With these remarks, delivered in a menacing tone, Hart put the dug-out once
more in motion and 'moved down the river.
.,CHAPTER IL
IRIS RATHBUN. JACK LAWLESS.
Savi=a looked after the rough backwoodsan ashe fidted-oc- with sat e-
pression half-serious, half-comic. The red spot that had appeared upon either'
cheek a f seconds before, disappeared, and 10t4 his face of its wanted complex-
ion, calm and undisturbed by passion. A ddg-of the largest size and of rare
blood , laygerouchingquietly at his feet,-watthing his countenan e; apparently
with' much interest.
;Honest, you have 'a better nature than that man," said Harper, observing
the earnest and trusting looks of the' animal.
" Honest" responded tothe flattering remark by a-sigaiisant wavy modeofh
of his tall.
K I can trust you, ily dog; yonder biped I wonld not trust with a sieglefal-
thing, if anything of importance'wasstaked on his faithfulness.
4' Honest," by variousimodest of expression, known.to the-canine raue,aindiea-
ted that he was fullyf'of his masters opinion.
WhIle Harper was interpreting the language of his hunible friend,. n-far
was placed lightly upon .his shoulder. Turning with a start, he beheld- a tall
and:dignified figure, *hows e untenauce and' costume -betrayed im of another
type of men.
"White, hunter must *atch-'his ears must be open-his 'eyed must not be
shut. He must hear the leaves when theyrustle, and the winds must" bring to
his nostrils the scent-ofhis enemies," said, the son Of the forest, With emphasis.
" True, red man, very true. Should not -uffet myself to be thus surprised':
'tita stain on my knowledge of woodcraft," replied Harper, coloring.
"The bird of war hovers over the border.  The, Camanehes lie in wait fb
whitey gealp4ooks. The :pileface must-look'well to the path whih he-tread i or
the rifleRbail may sing inshie ears, $ id the knife may flaskbeforehis eyes"
J p red brotliergspeakl like an  prienied warrior 'What may I call his
r;$  anmcalled Warpath by my people,,because my foot Is sure on the trail of
mjyenemlies."
l'have hean of your deeds. Baptiste, the tapper; hascaon extolled your
bteeryy and address. Yon are chief of theLiipanat"

A


14THE MAID -OF THE RANCH.
" Yes, white man, I am the chief of the Lipans. We have dug up the hatch.
et, to wipe out the wrongs which we have suffered at the hands of the Caman-
ches."
The Camanches outnumber you, and war must eventually end in disaster to
you and your people.".
"Let it be so, if the Great Spirit wills. It is the red-skin's nature to resent
and revenge injuries, and he cannot learn to do otherwise. Every drop of blood
in our veins tells as to fight when we are wronged. If it pleases the Master of
Life, we will die as we have lived-with weapons of war in our hands. The
happy hunting grounds are ever open to all tru souls."  4.
Harper made ne answer, for he knew that the voice of nature was stronger
with the red man, than the voice of argument uttered by human lips.
"My brother is fall if thought-; he has met the big moccasin snke," added
Warpath, at length.
" You mean thei'man that has just floated down the river in the boat 2" said
Maurice, turning to Warpath, inquiringly.
"He is a-serpent that crouches in the breaks and in the reeds, and stings,
aid then runs into his hole where he cannot be found. Hunter, walk carefully
when you move through the tangled grass, and always be:ready to spring aside,
that the deadly reptile may be foiled," continued the Lipan, earnestly. -
"I will treasure up the wisdom of Warpath, and it shall not be lost."-
"To-day I saw the trapper-he will kindle his fire to-night at the .foot of a
liii yonder is the direction of the, setting sun; white brother, you'll find him
there. He can speak to you of this fine moccasin snake, and' his words will be
wise. He has a white skin but his heart is red. His aim is sure; the voice of
his war-cry is the shout of death. He can learn my white friend much. He can
show him how to read the signs of an enemy, and how to follow a trail through
a chapparal, the swamp of cane, and the tangled thicket."
Warpath waved his hand, tightened his belt, and walked hastily into the dark
. forest.
Harper stood in deep thought, then shouldered his rifle, and followed by Hon-
est, pursued his way along the bank of the Brazos, For ,an hour or more he
moved on without stopping ; but not without the obser vance ot caution. Sud-
denly the dog paused' and indicated by actions that an object attracted hisatten-
tion. He did not. appear alarmed orexcited, but gazed steadily towards a small
thicketrof post oak that grew down to the river's bank..
"It canbe nothing very dangerous, or Honest would.not remain so passive,"
thoughtthe hunter, bringing his rifle into a position to use it if necessary. He
advanced noiselessly towards the thicket, and separating the branches of the
trees, looked in among the dense umbrage. He saw neither deer, panther nor
Camancbe ;- but a female of some seventeen or eighteen summers, seated upon a
mossy knoll. - Her right arm rested upon the verdant eminence which arose in-
a gentle swell beside her,; and her finely forced. head was supported by the
corresponding hand. The whole attitude',wasthoughtful and graceful. In tha

THE MAID OF THE RANCHE.                      l0
left hand she held an open book ; but it was evident that the was not reading :
her full, pensive eyes were fixed dreamily upon vacancy. Her. dark and redun-
dant hair fell with native freedom over her white neck, and curled with be-
witching grace. Her features were somewhat oval in outline and studiously
regular.
Maurice Harper gazed at this singular aggregation of female charms with an
admiration so genuine, that no interpreterwas required to explain his emotions
to a third person. He placed the breech of his rifle softly,upon the ground,and
made a motion to Honest to the purpose that he should lie down and keep still ;
and he was too sensible and honorable a dog to demur at so reasonable a de.
mane upon his obedience. He stretched himself upon the ground wondering,
doubtless, what kind'Qf game his master had started now, and querying whether
he was not losing his precious ttkne with no prospect in view of trying his skit'
as a hunter.
Harper knew the young lady who had chained his attention and dazzled his
eyes with her beauty. He had seen Iris Rathburn at the" Rathburn' Ranche"
(as it was called), a few days before. On that occasion, however, he had obtain-
ed but a passing glimpse of her person, and only a momentary view of her fea-
tures, afforded him by her while casually passing through the corral, where he
was conversing with her father. He made the discovery that her face and figure
were uncommonly attractive ; and felt a strong and almost irresistible desireoto
see her -again, and with that object in view, had visited the ranche several times
afterward, but without success.
Her sister Ramona, he had met and conversed with : and though not wait-
ing in beauty, she had failed to make that impression upon him which the mo-
mentary appearance of Iris;had done.,
He was much gratified that chance had finally given him an opportunity to
see the maiden who had so strangely excited his curiosity. When the first sur-
prise bad passed, he began to have some misgivings in relation to the propriety
of intruding upon her moments of retirement, and taking advantage of his pres-
eat concealment to watch the play of her features, and, read, as. it were, upon
her ingenuous face the pages of thought passing within. It appeared to him
likea breach of etiquette, although his approach to that position had been to
tally accidental. Harper gazed a second more at the sylvan beauty, and then
with reluctant steps glided away.
He did not go far, however, but threw his manly figureupon a grassy hillock
near the river, and tried to employ his mind bywatching the movements of a
young alligator that was rolling lazily about in the water. Honest took his
post beside his master with characteristic :quietness and docility. The young
man looked at the amphibious and awkward monster until it became monoton-
ous, for his thoughts were really in the oaken growth just above him. He was
on'the point of rising to leave the spot when a sharp cry, as of fear, reached his
ears. Snatching his rifle instantly from the ground, he ran towards the thicket.
Honest was equally active, and bounded with a threatening growl in the same'


tO              Tait, MAin of    E RAiron
direc' iin: *ith 1fig'htand 'agile ate i', ta~per :sprang' throes h ' the cor i!6i at
trees 'bat sBut nt uthe bowel, of the miden, and' bias wt &amp;fiafW yards oathef
betor*s had heari the aoin of l4a coniingk.'
Iris*asstadin a ~  fet fontthe spot  where bie had jel her, in anlltU
tude indicating mnnch alarm. Near her was the object of her terror, in the e
o( aima, whoperhaps, Wi t t de t ui y= 'd ' eai'sof age, u *I e *hvisage'
markedhiand rendeired V1ribtft ii-b the free, or1zi  d disfpa~te* lifeId' ovjih&amp;
1             i                           .     h  Ta  h1is'headt ei edby a cap 6t uh&amp;ne '°d   s'ue, Which, in oj bitn'
with his lonig, iinhort ieatd'ad hai1 vehii a upper ar a'etdenre   i4'an
uncoufhappearance:  is' au .ens n l ~aloenxlght li'avbeen 'an exutahbl
object{oI terror,- sttig'abide all else.' '1 a e rO b1f"his appai way,1t uficily h
kcep ~    ith     *6tedsrbd          ptsagOpiItciled
ngw         a   ehv  ec'b M wg,                   iiidhis neck was guiltless o l"a bdk eroeeif, * ollat,'-nd-  in tact there "Wtdd
have been but little room foi either, on account of the redundant shrubb~eryo
hair thiat adaorhe ti prtcniai, rag on' Mere'  thioear icles are g  era1l  iiai.
plied to the human' body.
~ewasabonu 'lix feet one ink'his etockogs.    'ie atrn sconsiste t  acdn
barl 'crbine,  a brace of - pitols:' a bowieknif ,tnd  a hatcliet 'All but the-
first weapn tand' that he held fin iiift ai ud) weei''sutik into  aihblt ; hich'he
wore  around hi n'~.tir                                _.
Wh en Maurie hrper :re ched the sceer' eis fith  si s  'c nof hutnat-
itpW~   trig a   rs   i  a malicious grin, aupatsently highly dblightcd wiAh
th9 contemplation of the emotions of fear which hti appearance had ' xcited  iii ,
the girl.                               '
' WYhat' may'bc y~un prtceuiat °b islnes with clyhi  g womn, iP  kd
Maurice, calmly, at the same time pressing clbse t6  iwis; whose inw dhniigued'o
prussion  told what. asnsationt'r e lehis p sen~&amp;1i is  brought h ler.
'M 'maiextin cdb," eA d' tie intuder, WithiF- i u*aggeriug air, neddt  n
tirnidate.~t in
"fyou are  auil itiois td ~ccboni fa ill grown'bear, you had better be'seek
ing  thise sternal 4eny'?"  i ejbIn~d   arper.
~You're thar,are you? my niortheril fehChiken t  Von  'havd't been 'Ion  ""i
thesepatsI'rekon. WB' a ou}eiverswaltowed by an alergat ~or pawe~
a-catamrount"If' you' wasn't prepare tb 'be chued1 in  a few 'seconds less th "
no time. Stranger, I'm a heap ofwild cats and other votaeos iriits. Thar
is 3ior rcis -4t?'ios tteiaeiii
"V  auide the iacell is a famnous  Phrse- in LPes, and signifies that ,thob
noiobus individuni to whom it is addressed sliuldabseithimself as speedily a
poi sr jle, of su fl6 the eonsequen ces: The  leaning . of the "'Tefan eiaib," 'as Ire
hadc civ rarous y styled himself, was perfectly apprei t to oli-herd;"'butif  w  '
not in a m iann~edispdosed to  abandon 'his' ground.
"Do :not, revoke ihim~, Ibeg et you 'butl4t.4 1eave thd sot,"'sidI .
a:low f rce to harper4F,

T u MAID orEm1A4 q7
'r!gorpeh   you. didn't hear whettI saidto y,  'ourwant A love
Your, liar, step and be mnovin'," said, the eflw, naming l} iucarhi , nkp
*~ tE S ri !r t;itinia~o.
"DA,   nod art: iss t o  ~th~uk. nothing serlpe Gill qcu,. inl  y v
menaces of the desperado.
"Is'pose you've made your il  4.t     pth a v en 't ye,; xn serr sa© ttia
wort be no aisputes about your p soua prop rt y end Q$Je rplh nde ?  ,.hope
you h ve, causee ~t he. b s of' iw   1' ud1gm -t,, you're pretty iear the
i ndw    bu hspriel         eid",Would you injure an ~honest young nom foxpxotectiul  defenceless; irl?'
it terrpted Iris, eiornestly
« I couldip't stop. to taljk ~ you onthet Subject,,ypoung woman, tbit I linos
what I like, I calkerlate. If you don't ky.-about seeing a cldel en kille, you'd
bettq tunyou " fuce totherwy'
"Tip is a gam~e Itwo can, flay at 1" exclninied, ]~rper impatiently, at ¢A~
same tie displaying i.asigi44cant w  hy lis double-1barrel itife. ,,
The desperado Vis inkW  ac of 1p tilling his ,ea rl  b Wn iri s teppea e41r
tweeu ,him end Ma~lipe, aad thy. co aen4/~ygthelatter with er persnu.
"I'you moat; her~e a v ti ;,let .l be, spys l1f," ,she st~dj irmly.
"4Iyou mean to t pe a d of the W o o yo  VWell, th, ts ratlhr eIpky
ca cunneape4for him, I relk®a P'
,tperjp4 thesm 4en paty, ai e, and lookeeeadl it 4Qc. t f por t)
Texan. His manner had. clugd  O~etty for now h' .rape,.wrap crinrs w'tb
",-W,  pd his- eyea spanJ e4w th  ei neat..,°..
"Lawless and gasconading villain, you are beneath the chastisement of ml..
olvn p  o nalarm !you are  o bey dealt with ©ily tby dogs. RBei re, the re-
{ ard 'o finsolence. T ak hi ,~ ~one i'
4hehe pronounced' these wds, homade. a tiontp the, doer Vh had been
watching his 'master's mov~me tw jha intelligence h helin~an. ]nyedii~tdy
t e iual utteiedpa. warning oWJ,biundedhi, h  thp ai,.{ nd  thirene.4$econd
ca eE cown upoqptlhe ;u ashed, aQ Oy~rpow ,ring ~so, . hQ~nean muscle,
excited, with strength, and quivering with rage,",
Cloipg his.great p~outI, l~lhe.a vice upw fthe, neckof hi victimi'Ath oQne .t  t  s tik  , ,_ ,  gi-
l'tis        b ~oug 4 #hipJt, the: g o t o Q aer , lees . I sti uck to
"tIbid him, but don't tear him," said Harper, and by q, motiou of lip tail,
Honest signified that he knew his duty  } l . e, seR  ~et hi  on t ,u  j ws
The young man then took up t he carbine w1h' lc. &amp;5alewutee n#ti
4e prad 'e.grae, ;?n l d    .both barreladin: ther fte  b , !,.bt clib-
ectelysdrew 1 h p  ~os froi  is; belt a 4dfired the  u ath fine i asun ex .
" Do not let the dog kill the poor wretch,", said Iris,  who ,  p1ljes, were
now excited for the saffei~er,                       .


0

38

THEu MAfD OP' THE RAriCHE.

"Let go-- dat will do," added- Harper, who, glancing at the fello's fes,
perceived that'i t }ag going hard 'th him.
The faithful creature was not quite pleased at'this command, and by a wish
ful look seemed to ask permission to continue his efforts,; but he reluctantly.
relinquished his hold, and the outlaw inhaled a long breath, and made 'a disa-
greeable rattling in his throat.
"Will he die?"asked Iris, withia shi'fer of horror.
"Trust me, he will not-; bad men do-t die so easily ; they cling to life to
the last,for they fear the futureand Would live on any conditions, however mis-
erable. He's only somewhat cramped for want of breath, and slightly wounded
about the neck. lie will soon 'be upon his feet again."
Harper was right ; the injury which the man had received was not serious.
In a short time his respiration became regular, and he appeared entirely con-
scious-of his position.
" Come, sir, get up and stake the trail," said Maurice. " Your presence is
not wanted, as you must now realize. Don't let him attempt mischief, Honest."
The "Texan cub," now pretty well tamed; slowly assumed the position natu-
ral to human bipeds, while the dog, by sundry low growls advised 'him that he
was watching him closely, and should punish any rebellious acts on the spot.
"You can fight with your imp of a dog, but you can't fight like a mnan i"
He exclaimed, while his shaggy chin quivered with passion. ~"+This wont be
the end of it I the end will be a different thing altogether.  I shall fix you, I
wont sleep sound till I Aix you," he continued, speaking with extreme difficulty,
and'pressing' his band to hislacerated throat, still smarting with pain.
" How frightful !" cried Iris, turning from the scene with a feeling of faint-
ness.'
"You shall hear of somethin' more frightful than this bit of a skrimmage, or
my name aint Jack Lawless, young woman. You've had a hand in this busi-
ness, and ' sha'nt forgit ye. We shall meet one of these days, -when the power
will be on my side, and I'll use it. I'm a Texan cub I"
Without making any rejoinder, Harper and Miss Rathbun walked from the
spot towards the Ranche, leaving Lawless pouring forth the most bitter'invec-
tives and direst threats of vengeance.
But few words were spoken'by the parties as they moved away. Occasion-
ally, Maurice east a furtive glancee at his fair conipanion, but could at that mo-
ment thipk of no fitting words to address to her. He walked by her side until
they reached the corral.
"Here you are safe!' hesaid, pausing
" Will you enter and receive the thanks ofiny friends for your disinterested
and timely ervices?" returned Iris.
"I requireanddesir no thanks. The reflection that I have perhaps saved
you from something very unpleasant, is all the reward I deserve or aspire to,"
he replied, respectfully.
"It would certainly give me pleasure to have you enter and partake or our

THE MAID OF THE RANCB5.
hospit.aity ; but like all hunters and foresters, I suppose you are extremely
wayward, and will do as you please. If you will not accept my invitation for
this occasion, accept it as extending to an indefinite period, and consult your
own convenience, added Iris, gracefully.
",Be assured, Miss Rathbun, that your kindness shall not be forgotten., I
will avail myself of your generous invitation, as soon, as circumstances will pas.
sibly permit; until that time, allow me to say adios amigo."
"Adios," said the maiden, in a sweet voice. So the youth and Iris parted.
CHAPTER III.
THE COMPACT. MELTIAH Moss.
AFrE leaving Rathburn Ranche Maurice Harper turned his face in the dire..
tion of the setting sun, in order to join his old friend, Baptiste Lorrimer, At the
spot indicated by the Lipan. He made determined efforts to think of every-
thing but Iris, but instead of succeeding, could not, for five consecutive sia-
utes, fasten his mind upon any other object.
Ourhero was one of those persons who fancy that they can come in contact
. 'ith the loveliest portion of creation, withoutexperiencing any deeper emotion
than common friendship. He imagined, in ahort, that he could control the cur-
rent of his affections, and place them where he saw fit. But when he had ar-
gued himself into this belief, he had not'seen Miss Rathburn, and consequently
had no means of judging of the effects of beauty like hers. He mentally cor-,
fessed that she was very agreeable, and concluded that he should call at the Ran-
che and see her again when it was quite convenient.
The report of a rifle caused him to pause. Looking rapidly around him, he
perceived a man leisurely advancing. He was young, well-formed, and clad in
hunting guise.
"I fired at a deer, but the distance was long, and I believeI missed my mark,'
he said, observing our hero.
"One cannot always be successful' replied Harper.
" It cannot be expected when one fires so far ; but I seldoni throw away a
shot. You must understand, stranger, that my nerves are steady, and my eyes
are used to lookin' through the sights," added the'other.
" You have been long-used to the woods, I suspect?"
"Tou hmay well say that ; for I took naterally to the timber when I was a
mere lad, no higher than my ramrod; and I've been in itbf and on ever since.
I take it you are fresh in these parts ?"
" I have not been in this particular locality long, I'll allow," returned Maur-
ice, who began to-be already interested in his new acquaintance.
"It's rather a lawless place, take it altogether, and it's sometime before stran-
gers can get the hang of the country."

.
r


I

Tgg MAIiD OF THE BNCS.
:    neaas r  can lrtin l auar  eoil get aor of the k. offit -*
like, 6king to $ fgeg  of.JadgeLyneh.".
S Tlat'a the truth't B tween &amp;e Regulatr; * oMeutoe Indiana, gamble%
horse-thieves, and Santa Anna, Texas has-rather toggletine  it"
'h'avd frequently heardl about-,b  leggi .a-and *4eMdero  ArM tpy of
a   service t* the edutty     --
'I aint much of apoliti iany way,   d should; sa thy' kBth prtips:ar4
a enraeo -it., Itftiue, thattho ideaof regulating the- aoupteWa  in: the first
instance an honest one ; but it soon .degenerated. The Regulators originally
comprised the respectable portion of community. They administered justice with
a rigid band. Disguised in some manner, they would pounce upon the offender
and hang him, or administer some terrilbeipanithment. Well, this alarmed the
rogues, and they lost no time in joining the Regulators; and Regulating soon
became a species of outrage and-wholesale killing; for; you see, stranger, that
whenever a villain-ha&amp;-awlittle spite,..he)would he, s ue to. be doweon the eg-luc
less fellbw- with a pose  ol his fellars: The people, 1 ec ane alarme, en. wolf
they migbt, for thecouitrywas=themieflreunsafe than ever ;eaud the eOuse
q      g ee oas, they foinedanotherparty, callae&amp;oderator  Wha wa athera.
suit?  Why all the rest of the scoundrels, gamblers.thievsrand wnarderersget
erally, rushed' i tmttheranltsif ,the: new assooiatiop.. The moment there were
two parties in the-feld, things'went:on from had' to. worse., %.olliions ,t90l
place almost day, andblood hasp been sieilelilse    rangerr. I. allow
dere has been'So  -of, the hardestafights between theglato s"and the MNdr
orators that you overhead of. TheReguiato:in trgtp regulate the Ma-
erators; and tl Moderators is trying tomoderatehthe Begulators,have tiaef
the country into-an arena for wild beast  Sothats* th  present positioa:Q
affairs."
H ill not'thia tegioa fnaision; se va to turn the attetin of all.pa ties in
another direbtibn; andkeep;thep.fromtrending each the ?" asked harper.
"Perhaps so, sir ; I hope so, at least, for as it is, no one can tell when. bis
hour caitieti. A person'may go to, bedia apparent sority, with the prospect
of a long life afore him, but be called up in the u4dlep.of the. night !  a
pressing invitation to be hanged!"'
o idraw er=gtioml pirotureJmy fdend'
"Me% a   :heep d, widders'that ooddspaint   e   awful one,.atranger.--
There's a place called WIdder Creekl,' whthar!s~twAntyrfves al told, lose
husbands' where regulated andhmoQteroutatfd t hewgr  "   s
l'r iee,':yfriend, thatyau do ko   bali g  w eit he qf tsbe :   ?"
saie Haip eewithig6lledesitation:.
" Not I, sir-not 1  I profs e to be 'a  es:      fi   0' w      to, 1e.
co r     bl 'y60W   fiitherdog-wish t eep  Inopody.-  want they wqods
-the river, atsksl  tur't LFttme ba   thee, udth   gpve'nrentc 9f 19y
own Etions,'airetaaktioimore",
"Your language pleases me, sir. I alaoadnmire nature.ip,,all, her -aried do'

Trt-  Mll {OP H .  tl  'E

*1

eloemaent&amp;   'y nanefr I$Maurice Harpert formnerig  native f old firnk
I aint greatly lied  in t ie fashTos of the *rld, hOt 1 take it' that' s c.
verlent to asking whot X'm called byY Noel Noon is the beginning and ialag
of rynanye;so-thr'as white-folkarohetel-ned. the Iagin eritt.rs oe, nes
caHl me 'Open-Hand,' 'TrueeT=ong@i,-andfsish like ; me aim' I  h ir Ila t thir
-*way that I aint givei b=deception, and that kind of-idig.a
"'The Indians are rnarellous readeit of Obaraeter, and tppellations of that
nature Are asgood as letter of recommn ndatioa. 'It's my opinion, Mr. No,
that thdse naines are well}appie."*
"Don't, if you please, Ail:#me m itet-foi, I  uedidn't tliuk of adsweri6' to
anythin' short of Noel Noon."
"If you will admit me among your fiend, I will certainlf epakto you in
that  hliliar way."
"There's a difference between ; sttanui ; you' e gt irnin' and I din't got
any to boast of';e nly enougli toe1kan expert baclwoedn. I rely don't
nthi ak     ond lare to reckomesich  i  an gh  oheultivade  ida ioido  in  the  ni nbi
of yOnr friends; it don'tseeim aetlylIkuly."
-  obaye gifted with hnti   heal,  e1 'dobi, authat makes yoe pa
good as the best man that walks the rest; I like yot; theie's natural id
true manhood in you. A    'iny Un il-take itan    iaher  ft ' t is be tre
friends."
Noel fixed his large, black eyes searchinglytpdt° arp  and afterthe jao
of a tfd_ atoonles lowfyteootb e yo ia' h.       i
"Mari     irper," ie sld,'in I ser otseeardest oin' 4O vi'ce,  nmied1l ih.
with me, a sacred wort. T etn  el fi I   iy'trtri 4o%
wardbuider any ceumuslae le       ibei  tlt trbiena  If Isay NrAl be your
friend, I am bound to stand by you in every emergency whatsumever. T ir
my notions ot friendship; perhaps yours arediflet ; if they ar', we'df ieer
take different trails, and let the subject drop."
'F "Iiendship, in my opinion; Ml- bear no other construction  than' what
have gi n it. I agree   itb yiu fully findi'tityn; aediarttk an insu
NoelNuill'be'ti ibnsitto Murice Hper,'' a dd our Ife - , sliag the
backnodnibA'sshi.
a o rnetM       and   in compact to '6 nres' tll  oae or botfh
gives nyeresythin g a Mlber a'itun. h'6 dtl a           atgep  ie N i
your trll, it's-highl  h ib et  this ul titfd   IiM   ont be fu, oWi
The twti yiywgei'*   g1ekch-ther's ak &amp;d hi ilene    ldx1    , a
larperaid;       the ole~r,~ni!y dp oF~he~ 5%. e   a    , ,16uk    o
psaibly prevOnt the mointard6frsitt  l       }yringin9il ey -. 1
" Wonder renupig~'Mer, '  kih lyfre%   ht M thesl~fi~~te %H
sky above us, and He that made all, shall be our witness to'  if on
meant   at#may althe inleie  of eartlind air  rf h    Iidf," r  i d
Haryer.
." May the waters drown me, the trees fall on and ciensh me," tte tbilge no

"


1'

2-                    THsa MAID OF THE RANCHE.
longer shelter me, and the sky and the stars, and the great soul that dwells in
thgm no longer nileson me, when: I betray my friend," replied Noel,3impres-
sively..
6T Good! :.he Master of Life s pleased!" said a voice near 'them, and the
stately form of the chief pf the Lipans approached.
" Union makes streng-gives one arm the-power of two. The bird of- war is
screaming on the border. There ie danger in the cane-swamp, and in the cy-
presa brake ;in th valley and on the hill-top on the, mountain and in the prai-
rie; at the ranche and in the wigwam ; in the white clearing and in the wild
woods Therefore,,true hearts should be bound firm together like a quiver of-ar-
-ows," added Warpath.
"Is there:any new feud,?" inquiredHarper.
"' ie means that there are dangers en the border and within the border-
from civil feuds, and from, foreign invasion," said Noel.
j'The unsettled.state  the country generally, is as serious;in its- aspects as it
can ,ewl be, if I rightly comprehend;the matter. Every man' here appeals' to
let his passions run wild, and dealsout(justice as it suits him. No longer ago
than this morning,;by the merest accident, I involved myself in a quarrel which
prgbably.not ended yet,",continued Maurice.'
"dhe Moccasin Snake will not forget,' said Wsrpath.      -
" That's Manuel Hart, you mean, I take it, Warpath?" replied Noel..
" Wa, waI it-is him," replied the Limian.
Harper hereupon gave a simple statementof what, had occurred in relation to
Manuel1Hart ; after:wrich, he narrated the incident which had transpired ,in
the forest oft oak, wherein Iris Rathbnn had been concerned.
Noel listened with }respectful attention, occasionally shaking his 'head and
looking serious,
Warpath stood motionless as a cypress at his side apparently absorbed in his
rejections on some topic more interesting.°
"I'm sorry for yo, that these things have happened, for you have, made two
dangerous enemies, who will be content with nothing short of, your blood. I
know Manuel jart. We, never got along very well together, though we've
had io open quarrel. He'is too much of a coward to quarrel above-board ; he
prefersto work in an underhand way, andstrike like a serpent when you don't
expeedit. tawless is rather a different kind  f chap-more of a game bird
than H art. He has some courage, while the other aint got an atom. Between
them they'll do you mischief enough. ,I have my suspicions that they have
deni's withtheM9derators and Regulators ; and what they can't do them.
selves, they'll have done for theytin come; shape or other. You'll, be -tracked
e a fat bneapn4 be shot down on thesrpt occasionthat offers.- What do
yog thin-Wgr pt
"3ad menr--don'ta come out in sight-kepp in grass-creep along-hearts
very small-full'ot hate. Our white brother must have eyes on all sides of his,
hlad," returned the Lipan.

I -

THE MAID e    THm NR   E.                   28,
Noel Noon kept his eyesfastened on ur hero's, face as he spoke, aluiough
without 'the appearance of watching him:
"IDoes the coward presume-"
Maurice suddenly checked himself, and Anished the sentience;in ..more calm
and commonplace tone, while Noon and Warpath exchanged sigqificant looks.
"~Does the coward presume to think of one so far his superior ?"
"I may safely say that he does."
"And, is Miss Rathbun aware of it, do ye imagine ?"
"Well;if I was to tell my thoughts and suspicions, I should reply in the af-
firmative."
"Does she encourage him ?".demanded Harper, in a hurried tone, intended to
be very indifferent and ordinary.
"I should do wrong to throw out any hints to that effect.. There's something'
atween Hart and the girl's father that I can't fathom, and which, I fancy gives
her some uneasiness ; but what the natur of it is, I: have no means of knowin."
" Perhaps she feaE5 this boorish and heartless woodsmen ~"
"It wouldn't be strange. I shan't on no account say anything' ginthat view
of the case. If-there is some kind of a mystery yhich giyes Eart power over
Rathbun, I've.only to remark that I wouldn't be in his place for any consider-
ation- In my; weak comprehension, there's something' naterally sbopkin' in bei'
governed by an unprincipled critter like him, without the means.of 'helpin' one's,
self ;'and it would place Iris in an onhappy position."
" I trust that you would not scruple to assist her, or her sister, if you discov-
ered that they were being wronged or rendered wretched ?". dded Harper, earn-
estly.
"-If it should ever come to pass that the efforts 4frough, NoelNoon can
make.either of them young women-God bless 'em- any  happier premore coup
fortable-like, he won't probably be far off! That's the way I-stand in that-
poet at the present time," replied the forester, in his own honest style; of speak-
ing out.
"I should much like to converse with ygg, on these subjects.,gain," resumed
Mauric ; " lpt Qw I must hasten to, joie Baptiste iorrimer. Wi1 yoqg
with me ? I can warrant you a welcome; and notonly you,.but the' chipfe,'
"Not now,; I've got somematters to talk over$ith$ arathr butI will be
with you probably, before many hours pass. Be watchfultatPdrememberthat.
you have arfriend in Noel Noon."
.Shaking hands once mpre, the young)man hastned way towaads a low .ang
of hillsbthat were visible in the west.j s n, e, and seemed i better. pp'i
ashewalked'on,                            .     r
" Ah," he said to himself, "they think that the prospect of danger will make
me sad and fearful; ths4proves tha  eydono,tknow .e yet,  hings   be-
gi to assume an aspect to suit mysomewhat wayward fancy.. To dwell in a,
spot like this without adventur, Ton d be dreadfully monotozopsu &amp; et re'
peril come as quickly asit may.; it will,aford me amusement, and. preventm.

I


w4

T u: fl[D iowpmTAN. im

ffog  "  ito )  olet 1 '  .. Tha  . f    t~  hnkt, igbtty *f bu$tkDoWI
edge of woodcraft ; well, that is natural-'W  Wblo 3tim{ willhoW'*ht .
er heis right."".u;,                             r#     .,.f,  n
lit  fee       d     n-ess    f    .60t4aby aran Vmina
t1-1,h     1ft - e i   WW m   =at    , b(V ax p  iat 0d:edb yt  e  =~
ern'trapper and' "ebotee..  .- .
" Fine kind of weather this, stranger. Nice ttk  t "(4-  r1tbee&amp;a-',aity
mart, Ishould sayat atni~le''
'i  *et .F i + 6  g to df a s t /yo vi  nA t rep~e d Mauioe, Yery
carelessly.
*    ' 'A il   l ~~bbb   otie, I Mlow  r Anb6f 'the weed . e t y r clothes?"
continued the man.
#iit-- afi tbacco,'- trp  C ; Id$ ot to' i."r.'
:&amp;'S  ;'O hea'fit  , ft  $  -o*erititse it, id sodie shape orOt ir"
"B e s tthing y o u Calido.: If ajid Wh e Nt iA 'e~broth' ,o r  l a&amp; d .a lir  i } e~ *  .-~n  hSa  r ime
tPoM iold Yfgin Ah  no t ohi li, ftIn the tJnion," replied' Itirr
jil. h'g r ble in' l}I *nbb±&amp;i 6d eddi te tb  ,and I allow I'm gte d to -e
The backwoodsman paused, but 31 mr d&amp;iidtfall fitoMb the tp adip
=wee,' ° T hi t figit'the nabne:" le ades&amp;
-Never mind; don't stand oni ceremony with me. 'Call me Briarwood."
knwleolgi~     ~Vcgf&amp;iv-ea           a tOf," oit ied the
4fs~r*~hsb~~~t?.~i ftblik ,on re4       ble -°the taiilj~Le pe.
i  6,thdiaik a i&amp;.';
" Fact, every, word of it--great memory I've got. I° astonish myself otn
ttem;mimbe t        ties  au l1tof, and e rybhody elsehba=fo  otter.
fir: s  ei S tceard fla! atie  l  'i   f1tah Mos: TeiN heere d ,of;
the  oeds#tt  to a'o i# tIlW~b
~he l i     i  bty -  Mt  li to, mi 4  r , mac fmeeda tate
'jit ought- to be, for the Mosses are all of noble dert ; and flie- o3'e
tlir   o laW, p1o Iv10t3' llough1T buld havoc done- *eft at-alof
'em, if I'd been so minded. I scorned sich trifles, jest as a man of geueb~f
"   t  heaera i~to, If              '*b~~Wtt Ili&amp;f gait* ai
'kettshb owps  fai ct s i       ' bok at, .nce *Mhhela~ tte
t d not oser e, orat le;stdidiiot o ~toU. TBut herfttled on' a etekty
ever,

-1

Tam MAC) of 'E isRATiE.                 '

itWhat kind of game you aik? Well, si, I'rply with a frankness worthy
of Meltiah. I'm huntin' that sort of anpcwhich other people pass by without'
noticin'."
O ee, -a4ou!l'ssro wt neephasis when y1e ko ouats         III!
Thelsaine ost riofsls  ii  - ed fai         ve erte z swnn
aoceath °hiod.p erd thee n  betle  ud - sthI    de   ntI   by
'ffM Y t ra i l runs'in thisdirect; I s u apemnat  Umt br~' ald Harpex.
"If you go th*Ly_ ,I- ik=l #'y is~beeliof  ip   kitileeo' a 'Q'
Lorrirher, the hlu teti ,look } his super ae ' ieieimtbsy n kbu healof
them tall trees, andf I've gotbuieswthm.                      -     -
b                  uinsIw   t  h m .   et him   this  Affterb dr  ; ,- w h pp ied to  be  orseijn?  stte r the  a a dee r.
Jest as I had got within gunshot, I looked up and who should 1se' bat -U1ri
seei, jesti gbiiii kill tlgger'ft  ray Ogame,  =  s -t- , s:
" It was then that he informed Vii}hVii hh shoul4dcamp at the, upot -you have
"You're right, Mr. Blar'*ood. Thtat'S the eplaiiti;tiof the eft; anod you n
see I can't coneiesently go' athatiral, 11 ot L aat-thivea'f* o wesof talk
with Baptiste."
34'   -5repecting to meet=Lortiiner m ~elf at the Moae of yond&amp; ridge or
hils, added M iu i 'e, Wthinrltastib n. a ,  ,  ,  f...,#, 1 fI  , , -
isIt's lucky I tumbled upon you; then, for it's saved you a long, tramp 'fot
nothin'. Come, let's, be a WO i'. ?       .
'Harpier dklOc t  ; 'b~e r  aIW  tandii in a'tate of nd leesor, 'leaning
upon his double-barrel He *ns ftiideep  eo 'tat ot-e a 8avori©g''to study-ad
ar " y  t     z~m**o cdled iiia ''MeldishMos... , a- -  .. _  .
Mau ice io ts'atiisillyquiok fic- lew  b  w Ohe- eon! , 'ed 'himself at
fari .jwas hi~if r' f' frnoe s ennin ''o 'was It assumedi: -'a$'Plying
a s ttdied part, o racing out hiss bwn 'nature? I U6iraked :hiiisdi What jeet
Moss could have for deceiving him, and could think of no re asoale answer.'-
"The times are dangerous, I ac-ell- ava e,:esatd 'to ,himlV, or rather
those ht, 4",aid'4 will*tteh this Tid ual ;'If hep ed.-ea or i, et him
"I f piitaid-'toe alike a tree, it'll be' d ark ate-inkstore reachh the
rap"rsmdMs.              ..a                            ...Harper stooped down and stroked with his hmnd=thb large =head ot Honest,
and .then, straightening up, said, in a voice from which all traces of'$ :decision
'hdnse:Lest' on, sir-I will follow.'
44                  -   -
--  ~   ' -'  A  t

I5


0

T11 1HAID OF THE RANCHE-
- n ESAYED.
THE person addressed favored Maurice with another. searching glance, and
then shouldering his rifle,:took northeasterly.course, and put his moecagoned
feet in motion. +Por some:momentsathe parties;walked on in silence, harperr
keeping a sharpblok.out in every direction, and Honest, treading. close at his
heels, with his glowing eyeballs fastened upon the stranger, occasionally placing.
his nose to the ground, and then raising his bead, snuffing theair as if to take
any strange scent that thergentle winds might ,happen to bring,
The sun andlower-and:loweriand finally-went down,l4ea4ing, a sky without
a staror a moon.
The darkness drew deeper, and Meltigh  oss walked with ;less,assured steps.
.I reckon-I've got a, trifle bewildered," he:said, pausing and.casting anxious
glancesq around him,             f
You have been diverging from the.,Qurse which you q4 first indicated as
the truerone, for half;anhour," replied Harper
" I allow that it isn't easy to navigate these parts .when it's so oncommon
dark, butit's very seldom that I lose the pints o' compass.'
' The moonwill be up soon, andperhaps we had better -renain where we are
until it appears."
"I wasjest turning' that subject over in my ming,stranger, for it seems like
workin' agin' natur tryin' to get through this chapparal while the  igt is so
black and; heavy."
I shall endeavor to get a little sleep," said. Harper.,
'"What, sleepthere, among the reptiles, copperheads, and other poisonous var-
mints! You must be sum'at wild i your notions, I take it."
Harper stretched his athletic person at;the foot of a cypress, called.Jonest,
bade hinm lie down, and then-placed hie head upon the dog's shaggy shopl4ers.
.4Perhaps that curus critter'll keepoff the noxious perductions of this site ?"
remarked,.Meltiah, looking fixedly at the dog, whose eyes were glowing brightly
through the darkness.
It's very possible," returned Maurice, quietly.
"Smart ookin'-rifle, that of yours 1 Must be, rather heavy, I reckon." While
Moss was speaking, he stretched out his hand carelessly, and took Harper's rifle
'which be bad set against a tree-near him. .A deep, angry growl admonished the
backwoodsman that his movements were watched.
"What's his name?" he asked.
Honest?'
"Will the varmint bite ?"
"It wouldn't be strange."
Meltiah scowled, and evidently wanted'to send a ball through the mastiff's
head, but determined on a pacific ograe, at least for the present.
"Honest-HonestI good feller 1" he said, in a tone intended to be vastly
conciliating.

I

A more savage growl warned hin to relinquish his hed. upon the gun alto-
gether, which he was prudent enough to: do. Hey* retreated a few paces, and
seated himself sullenly upon the trunk of a-tree which the winds had overturn-
ed. Resting his chin upon the palm of his right hand, and his elbow upon his
knee, while his rifle, with the breech upon' the. ground, was; supported by his
left arm, he gazed intently,-through the-gloom at the dimoutlines of Iarper and
his dog. . This position he maintainedfor some minutest and changesl it only to
cast uneasy glances about him, or to play with his rifle impatiently.
-"        "If ever a person meditated villany," thought Harper," Meltiah. Moss iQ the
man:''
Half an hour elapsed, which evidently seemed a long time, t our hero'sauew
acquaintance.' At the expirationof that period, the latteerose, produced ma-
terials, ignited a flame, and applied it to the bark of a dried cedar.:,.
Instantly it was a-blaze, and the fire rant crackling and leaping, in glowing
wreaths to the top. - This act confirmed-thesuspicions of 11arper,:and he began
to experience a feeling of insecurity quite unconmnop to him..
"It seems to me somewhat imprudent to light such.a beacon as that," he said,
with some asperity of tone.
"For what reason ?
"It might attract a war party of Camanches upon us,"
,Let 'em come, stranger. I'm never safeard of dying afore my time comes
though I've seen some folks as is, and can't never make themselves happy under
no conditions, whatsomever."
"Words are very cheap, my fine fellow, but they do not go far with me. I
have always observed that those who talk the most bravely in moments of secu-
rity, display the least courage in time of danger."
S      rI Ihope there's nothing personal in. that remark o' yourn, mistr,,because as
how, I shouldn't wan't to offer any oncommon violence to anindervidoyal fro n
Old Vargiriny. But cypress brakes and copperheads I if you should go on in
that *ay scarely no time at all, I should be obligated, on account of my own
honor, to put you through aourse of sprouts, as weyoung allergators say."
"What's that ?" inquired Maurice.
" It's- what you can't know till you experience it. Fifty galvanic batteries,
allilet loose on you at once, wouldn't be nothin' to it."
"It must be dreadful 1" said Harper, quietly.
I'll allow that it is," pursued Mltiah, impressively.
"You've no fear of anything of that sort, yourself, I suppose?" added the
young man, in the same tone.
" Nohtn-the least; because 'you see I'm posted up :ia these things, and as
oncommon hard to beat."
" It will be well for you to bear in mind, sir, that if you attempt toplay off
any of your tricks with me, I will give you good cause to ,regret it to the;last
hour of your existence. You fancy you are 'deep, shrewd,.Dunning, anl .annot
be out-witted or over-reached; but I have sounded you, and know your mental

THE MAID OF' THE RANCH.


28

T&amp;. M inOF TRE0i

tonnage, and how much sil you cap carry without straining your masts. You
aia raft thatican saitnsha l r and maudd.water; alook out for breaers
wbeffyoutsi ate with nie. lam watcbin you, and it wil be extremely hard
f~ you to readily discover when you aia afe'l
Q, do t beafeaed, sister I I shall layany buyer4ece like that 7ou 7}My
be guilty fto your inexperience. I shaut be. bard;on you, eein's you ain't
u5 dte the'manners oft hse Texan allergstor
"What's thatr'OcIaimed Harper.
What's whatGetortedMoss,wahode feature would now be plainly seep in
the glare of the blazing cedar.
"thought I  ardt toisE_
MVery likely ; begiaders in this sor$ ef lifeare ery ept-to hear noises.:  t
they aint so skeel'y edsthegrgit oldei" '
Honest sprang to hisfeet, andhis ereotear ae4,liate ing attitude attested
theAhie master ws not the only-no who had heard sounds.
"Better keep that quadrepid animal stilt, if you 'eo'$ wart rin hurt by some
wild crittei." said Meltlah.
"He'll take care of himself; don't fear on his account? replied Harper.
" Honest ! look sharp-go in there-be quick I" he added,patting the dog on
the head, and pointing into thep.sw imp.
1ostantly the #atif bounded offlike an arrew.
"Wish:I'd shot himr' muttered Moss.
"What did you say ?" inquired Maurice, who had heard enough to get the
purport of the autce.
 Itte ateata ount,1ikely sa not, -add you'll lose your do,' replied the back-
woodsman.
"HC knows anmuch about the nature and habits of tpat animal' as you do.
#Ali there'stroubler'
While Harper was speakiig, the sound-ofa anudden onset and a pierce strug-
gte reached his ears, The features of Mom grew pale, and-for a moment he gp.
peared at a loss how to act.
"I'll risk the dog, if you will the catamount," said Maurice, eyeing his new
Mend closely.
" Help-help-murder !" cried a voice from the swamp in stifled togioa of
agony and terror.          '_. .,.       ,
Maurice darted into the thick growth. without a second's delay. When he'
reh4 the place of conflieI he discovered Honest keeping guard over a man
whom he had brought to the ground by a single tugat his threat.  Our .hero
sted him to arise, and was leadingibim towards the light of the burning tree;
,but to this proceeding he was evidently averse, for he struggled and held ack.
arEore; walkon; let9 us see who you-are, ho# much yon are injured, and'
fat' eparatiei Ow  yenyou'?
No,Ri s wi otseroalyckart-.call ofthesavage beast, and Jet te go,"
uid M'voice'whili Earper fincied was n abgholly unf miliur

4

TF MAID OF 'H .RANCUI.
Yes ; let the man have his awn ,way.'isgt your businoss,.I t k it, to
meddle-with other people's eonerns;' said Mosesbos wacy " bi ti.ime4 ati
"I must see who he is, and will ! at All eveata" retired we beradirIly,
tightening his grasp on the mie'- shoulder,&amp;and dragging b  alng by mere
physical strength.
"I reckon as how that sort of thing wont-d4 in this saad'e libery audiequal
rights," cried ;Meltia , aimig a blow att Harper's heqd, ..hiel:thoatter had
the adroitness to parry, and the good fortune to give one in return that blled,
thb aggressor to the, earth, where he -was immediat ly pounced apex by our
hero's unfailing coadjutor, Honest=; but in dealing this e tl_ puiske, Mau,
rice had partially relinquished his hold upon the unknqwu, wb4, proftieg by the
same, took te his heeisLand ran if with desperate peed
".Get up !" aid' Hhrper, to the backwoodsman.
Moss recovered his feet without a word, looking cbeep end ret4flka.
"What do you thi:of yourself t' asked Manrics
"I haven't madeup my mind. Wha's your opinion"
aThat yonare a tillain of the frat water:; that you ietndedd to betray me
into the hands of Manuel Hart, when, between you both, I should have beea
murdered."
You're a queer chap, you areand I ullwn I don't know jest what tomake
of you. - I'd advise you as a friend to kill that ere dog,. he'.so rude tg atrau.
gers."
" If you were half as honest, youwould ba.better map.; t would be dess a
crime to kill you than him. He is true to. his natures while yq  are fla to
yourself and everybody else," answeredaurice.
', such remarks aint pleasant to hear, but ite strikes me there' sequstruth in
'em, and I can't feel it in my mind to hit you for it."
"Tou would like to, no, doubt; but persons of your ilk are apt tq be coward-
ly. Meltiah Moss, your safety depends entirely on your good behavior. TWhat
prevents me from despatching you,.and sinking you in the first bayouI can fincd?
Who do you suppose would inquire:after you, or even regret your death ?
The moon was now up, and her beams shono brightly upon the parties. Moss
stood before Maurice unarmed, the latter havingsecuted both rfles; ad Uen-
est sat at his feet ready to{ leap:upon the former wheueverrbidde .
'i There is no good reaso why yo shoul live," resumed Maurice, seriously.
'4 ou do no one any good, but.injure.all witl whom yowcome in contact. Now
the question arises in my mind, if it be not my duty to shoot you on the spot,
and rid'the} earthof a bad-man."
The rffian' facee began to take. on-a deadly;paer
AlLatkingsoonsideredr you deserve to dies What hav you to msy, for your
self ?" continued Maurice, in the same serious voi
"I aint prepared to die," said Meltiab.
4'Neitherare godprepsred toylive."


80-        -         TnE MAID oF THE R4NCHE.
 tou couldn't think of killing.a fellow in this cold-blooded sort of a way !
Come, you're only ,anterin' like," resumed Meltiah, in an unsteady voice.
"Have y9 anything particular to say before taking a leap in the dark?"
continued Matrice, more ippressively.
" Now dont talk in that way I You make a fellow feel oncomfortable. The
fact is, it's all owin' to Manuel Hart, this scrape is, and I shouldn't have been,
in it, if it hadn't been for his meddling' disposition.",
" I hid' arreidy made up thy mind that Manuel Hart employed you to aid
" Yes, 'twas him as told me how to act. I've watched you, all the arternoon.
This mornin' you know you had a quarrel with Hart.",
"You'were to be well paid, I suppose ?"
"Nothing to brag on, for thatmatter.' Manuel aint over and above liberal
-'tian't in him to be. If I'dknown fully the natur of this anermal, I shouldn't
been eatchhed in this'here onpleisant fix."
"The excuses of bad men when detected ins crime, usually come with an ill
grace. You cannot well extenuate your fault. Had you borne the reputation
of au honest man, Hart would not have attempted to draw youinto his nefari-
ous schemes."
" That's ryther 'philersophical, I take it.'
" So, that was a fabrication about Lorrimer's: being on the spot you indica-
ted'?" pursued Maurice.
"I should say it was, 'cordin' to my weak comprehension."
"Here's your rifle, Meltiah, Ihopg you'll live to be a better man. If you
wish, you can accompany me to old Lorrimer's camp."
"I knew you wasn't so bad as you pertended," said the backwoodsman, evi-
dently much relieved. "Seein' you're so kind and obligin' as to ask me, I'll go
with you,"
Maurice now changed his course and walked rapidly towards tie spot where
he had good reason to suppose that Lorrimer was expecting him, followed by
Meltiah'and Honest.
Whether our hero felt perfectly secure with this singular being close at his
heels, we Will not pretend to say; btt we will venture to affirm that he tttrned
his head with an expression of considerable surprise,.upon hearing the sharp
snap of Meltiah's rifle Soquickly didMaurice turn towards the woodsman, that his
piece was still levelledat him, and his finger pn the trigger. For an instant the
young 'man's eyes flashed with anger, but the excitement passed as rapidly as
it came..
"Itook the precaution to take the cap from your rife, andtput a damaged one
in its place. To that device, I probably owe my'life. I see: plainly that you
arenot to 'betrusted. Snome {men would shoot'you down upon the pj ot 1 but I
can't find it in my heart to kill'you.?'w
"I only meant to give you a start," said Meltiah.
" Yes, a start to the next world, and would then have been obliged to have

THE MADworTHE RANCEE.                        81
settled the matter with Honest. Come, let us change the order of march ; lead
the way towards yonder range of hills, and don't attempt anything more to-
.night:las you value your life 1".
"I'm afeared you'll let me have the contents of the double-barrels when 1
paint expectin' it," replied the ruffian doggedly.
" I give you my word that I will not ; so go ahead," returned Maurice.
The proposed change was quickly made, and the parties pursued their lonely
way-towards the camp of Bapite Lorrimer.
CHAPTER V.
AN INTERVIEW
A FEW days subsequent to the scenes narrated in the foregoing chapter, Iris
Rathburn, while walking a short distance from the Ranche, was unexpectedly ac-
costed by Manuel Hart. The circumstance of 'meeting him alone was not at
all agreeable to her feelings, for reasons which may perhaps appear as we pro-
ceed. With all his roughness of manner, the hunter was shrewd, calculating
and persevering ; qualities highly dangerous when characterizing a bad man.
Having, as the reader is aware, a given purpose in view, ;so far as our her-
oinewas concerned, he commenced operations with considerable skill, disguising
as well as he could his real object. At first his remarks were of a general and
commonplace kind, and made with more than usual courtesy ; for even Manuel,
as clownish as he was, felt a rational desire to please such a maiden as Iris, so
far as it could be done in the way of mere words.
Butthe backwoodsman'was not, unfortunately for him, highly gifted in the
divine art of expression any more than he was in the graces of deportment. Af-
ter alluding to several things'in which he felt no real interest, he approached
the subject uppermost in his thoughts, as follows:
"I've heered that you got quite a fright tother day, all on account of that
wild-lookin' chap as is coastin' hereabouts."
" I was somewhat startled by the rudeness of a stranger, I confess," replied
Miss Rathburn.
"I don't know the partickerlers of.the case, miss ; how was it ?"
"Simply this ; while enjoying the luxury of solitude in yonder growth of
wood, I was terrified very much by the rude 'conduct of a wild-looking man
who unexpectedly intruded upon my retreat."
" How'did you get away from his imperdence?" asked Manuel, giving his
fair acquaintance a searching look,
in making:the statement as above, Miss Rathburn had not been wholly free
froi embarrassment, for she intuitively guessed Hart's object in drawing, from
her the details of her adventure; and wlfen 3b proposed the last query, she
could not refrain from  manifesting more: marked evidences of confusion. Shp
did what ladies are apt to do when obliged to speak of certain persons.-blnshe?
...atthe sainetiume trying to display the utmost nonchalance and indifference.


Tau. MAID OF -THE RAN       .
NI may justly say that I owe m delivery from insut paxtly to a dg ':'
said, With a smile.                                       -
"A very honest critter, certainly ! Didn't he have no master?" remaew g t
with anotheierching glance
"Of course he had -a master ; and the maaster wan s- cleut as tho4Qg,"
added Iris, still smiling.
"ii you wouldn't be put  oft, IDd like to ask  ,name ? "
"It was-I think it was Harper, or some thg like that," returned th eal
den, a red spot appearing upon each cheek.
.                                                 " ,
"Ab, 'twas him, was it ?"
"Do you know him ?"
" Better nor I do you, miss."
" A gallant young man I Doi't you think so, Mr, Hart 7" asked our heroine,
somewhat maliciously._
"I doa't never like-t' odir witJ females," replied flart, drilp
I am shure there isa no eed that you should difer ith me on the. subject"
t Perhaps not, miss; but I  nra older than you, an4 a ran snaed o know
this Harper afore he left Varginny."
i'he serious tone in which Maeul ptterec these words gave Irip a feeling of
uneasiness; for, truth to tell, she was unwilling tot her hero should sink it her
estimation the merest trifle.
He bore a good characterthere, I dare say ?"
"Perhaps we'd better change :the subject to s mthls, , as I never like to
speak agin any person that I can'tsay any good oft,,
.' fou really stevle me, Mr. Harti What do-you know of the gentleman ghat
is derogatoryIto his'charpcter ?" inquired Iris, with real pxnestnesa.
":Don't'ask me, because [know too much to s#y anytinang bi the naked
truth, if I express my feelings about the patter, 4d, ap I said, I don't wat
to ruin nobody down. The feller as goes by the name of Harper, aint what
he'd ought to be, by no means. He left.Varginey in a hurry, and wont be very
likely to go back, usleqs he's carried."
"You must be deceived respecting the young man!I" cried, Iris, earnestly.
"You have confouided him with some other pron"
"I wish I might obnfoad-him with sdme other person I" retorted Hart, ra-
ther aibiguously, abd with something much like a scowl. ,
" I am not ready to believe anything derogatory to the character of Mr. Iarp
per, although he 'Is cormparatively a stranger to-me. The toege of dstraction
is easily set in motion, Mr. Hart."
" It's not my business to look arter things' this s&amp;  0Ift  State qf Var-
giniy is Interested in:the ehap as ealls himself harper, wly 14 the Stats #ke
care ef it in the proper ay. I played up an old n ewapaper awhile g  th,,th
had s onetidn' 't say about this paticailar eass It's possible I pa find ita $
Manuel Mt in his pockets, but tould not pegance the document is qsatlje.

fTat M~itn Op mE 1kCua

3$

gt it it lh   bM btdent hap    m     iabbat me -nowe Bow-
ey ai, et'     'a  q 1hbe Ildon'tlipose yp  cafe tb tube abanmt lit'
-..1he itis. 1"Yrt" f               e 'if~ii  i  71 h.y.t are tlldig.n
"Well, the paper only made a few statement) at 'the. Steex ens 0 00wiW
a        e ati  money iforsiullAf's bedy," retrnid Hart, arejeslyi
" You nean to say that Mr. Harper is a fugitive fro'instiseand a reward
is offerell fo his apprebonsloit " rejoined 'Mliss-1atlmbitipo, :ros iog pais "
Don't mean to egay ndth ia d ell, but jest peat shatiredd.  I ait one
of the sort that g6es for to condemn others without judge or jury, though I'm
rather friendly to the Regulators, ss a geiiera thing."
" i ,re say not;' answered Iris.
" o  'I n ut uioie o'r justice in 'In'so, and hardl that  It alp
1es goes aginetheraii, -to ese afage  to ihjure the ohlravter of a fellereritter
-.u atween you and I, Miss'1tathbarn, this cha had better keep elear of the
Regulators."
deed 1yoti ft  my mind' with wonder aad slarmy
'bike confidentialii rieanslought tooadvfrk himntoliloarf the, cotretryad fait as
three horses cat% carry  h 11'; aid Manue).
'4 Is the danger .really to nimni~t ?"
If the Regulators iould light onhiin, hie'lide -wouldn't be worth praying
't an this be true ?" ft ellIi's  yre tly.
j'go urt her, an till yogthat the    tilatols re Iready' on: his trams
and heyI have it   aore ;week goesetat h1s head". don  ged  apel,
p 'a ioiuly  "Of oise -you know what'llomie of it," headdedsignifietly.
"May heaven--'
"ot lining of consequence. This isa eery'singular story."
Oncommon singular like ; but then' tie world'is M of 'strange things" It
don't do to be surprised at iothi' that may happen no*-a-day; -Human natur
seems to be goin' down hill, a  lere."
"Good mornIng, Mr. Hart."
" Don't le i, a hurry7 Miss Rathbiirn. 'I ha,  hssn d  fInrk - you, htely."
ha s nod my ait, you'know.  hue duties thsteUse t a hiome.'
"neohard: f tii's, ,T5hbpe7
certainly  ot," turned Iis, quietly, and truing 'frotathe spot proceeded
t n                     --tf. ly towards tj a' h'refltai  'tpnwh t' s e had heard. Ath  g h
~       .tse Wlttle 0oor'a ine the    b  rdof Mtuel : rt, she   oitd not
h ~ptee\  din j l pjat *le'snbject o Iis ozmnmni ations. Mairipe  rper
h.    ea  dh  A1fC          f'aka    1b6e-dahnerd'  ml  r ig and Iand-
onto.figure, She was grateful for the service he had rendered her; a l.To ed
o        aofte to mits ©te  eiaion; or'theaaderi, aware t      # aty
for the pure apd gpileless was seldom found in that wild region. Miss  athbura
was idterested in the ydug str gepr aotng'te-oand to hear such astound-
i ag disclosures relative to hin, uite ovtromeher.


84                   Tne M=D OF THE .RmacE.
Asshe approached the Ranche, she sawN Noel Noon near the corral, convers-
ing with Ramona. She slowly advanced and joined them, which, circumstance
appeared to be a great relief to the hunter, who was evidently much pressed to
find imitable subjects of remark.
"I am glad to see you, Mr. Noon. What have you to communicate that is
new ?" she asked, familiarly.
" Nothin' very cheering , Miss Rathburn.. There's trouble all around us, at
present.; General Cos continues to advance, and the Regulators and Modera-
tors are fightin' among themselues in a way it isn't pleasant to think of."
"What do you contemplate doing?"
"A few of us hunters and woodsmen have concluded to meet the enemy, and
let 'em-know what kind of stuff we're made of. You see, Miss.Rathburn, there's
fighting to be done, and I must do my part on't.  This country belongs to us,
I-take it, and it's our duty to defend it. Santa Anna's- roused,-and means mis-
chief, you may depend. Baptiste Lorrimer, young Harper, Warpath, the chief,
of the Lipans, and others, are of my opinion, and are ready to arm and nreet
the MIexican wolves. We shall get the best and strongest horses the country
can afford, and when once on the trail of the uncultivated, copper-faced var-
mints, the words ' right about face' wont seldom be heered."
"You are very much in earnest, friend Noon. Such a band of men as you
propose organizing, ought certainly to have a distinctive name."
"So they had ; and you and Ramona must give us one. Don't take it amiss
gals, nor colorup so like the mischief in consequence, but vive our company a
proper name. And I have a presentiment that if lips like yourn-beggin' your
pardon allers-give us.a name, it will be a sort of charm er talisman, as some
folks say, to protect us in the hour of danger."
"A high and real compliment, Noel Noon, and we were ungrateful did we
undervalue it. Come,Ramona, assist me with your ready wit to find a fitting
appellation'for this chivalrous band of heroes.",
"I am not quick at originating, or very ingenious; but I'll make an attempt.
How would it do to call your company by the plain name of ' The Hunters of
the Border?'"
"That's verygood," said Noel; "I like it."      -
"So do I, Mr. Noel," added Iris, "and so success to ' The Hunters of the
Border,'who, mounted upon fleet and hardy horses, will dpsh upon :the enemy,
and scatter his forces to the winds in a moment of time, after the style of Fran-
cis Marion, one of the heroes of the southern campaign."    .
"Hurra, for' The }Hunters of the, Border 1'" shouted Noon,-enthusiastically.
" fow do you progress in raising recruits of the right stamp ?" inquired Iris.
f etter thanwe expected, and it's probable, a good many willjine us on our
'aydown to Bexar."
"Mr.i-arper, you observed, was one of your number ?" she added, wit i a
faltering voice.
He's more than one, Miss Rathbun-he's a host in himself? I haven't seen
nobody equal to him yet, for real grit, as one may say.

TuE MAID OF THE RANCHE.                      ,5
" Manuel Hart counts another in your ranks ?" pursued our heroine.
"I'm sorry to sa that he doesn't, seeing' he's -a particular friend of yours,
Miss Iris ?"said Noel, gravely.
"What are his reasons for declining to join you?"
"I think because he's afeared of close-questions, and had rayther stay where
he wont get no hard knocks. I hope there's no offence in sayin' so ?"
" None to me, at least, Noel. Another question I wish to ask. - Have you
e'er heard any accounts prejudicial to the character of Mr. Harper ?"
I've heered things within a day or two which wouldn't be to his credit, If
true, but not from a source I can rely on'for honesty. And I want itto be un-
derstood, once for all, that any person as tries to injure Maurice Harper, by cir-
culatin'.bad reports, has gotto deal with me for the same."
Noel gave considerable emphasis to his words, for he meant that it :shouldbe
felt that he was in earnest.
" That's a very good principle to act upon, and I'm glad to'hear you speak so
frankly on the subject," replied Iris, with warmth.
" I didn't know as it would be pleasin' to you, seem' Manuel Hart is here-
abouts so much ; but I'd advise you not to heed all that you hear, no matter
where it comes from.
. he moment Noel Noon ceased speaking, the rapid discharge of fire-arms
as heard in the direction of the river, mingled with loud shouts and discordant
yells. Both the maidens grew pale and looked anxiously at Noel for explana-
tion.
, I suspect," said he, examining his;rifle, "that the two great'curses of the
country-the Regulators and the Moderators-have met and are killing' each
other like unnatural savages. 1Il go down the river a little way and see what
the trouble is."
"oStay, Noel-it won't be safe 1" cried Ramona.
As Noel was turning front the maidens to put his purpose in operation, Mel-
tiah Moss made his appearance, running with all his strength towards the-scene
of tumult.
" Thar's a fight somewhar, an' I'm bonn4 to go- in for it ! Hurra for Davie
Crockett and the gouging system !" shouted Nleltiah, as he passed the parties.
Just behind Moss came another personage whom Iris recognized as Jack'
Lawless. He brandished aloft a bowie-knife, and a double-barrel,and apppared
half frantic with delight :at the near prospect of a conflict. Hollowing and
screaming wildly, he disappeared in the thicket, and his shrill voice was heard a
moment after in the small plateau beyond,


36,

THE Mxm of aUE. iiwr .
-H A PT E RdVI y
INCIDENTS OP THE cONFLIQ?.r

LEAVING his fair companions Noel Noon approached the scene of discorid'This
was nota very afe reverie tb but he waas cofnaenit, with'the exercise of p*u-
dence, he should bs'able tekeep hiniself} alof;from 'te coibatants. We have
stated that the eotflictee ed td begatng on in  pl teau a short distancefrom,
the river, and-this stat4ietit oved t be oer'ect.
N od entierld thavod asnmoubdieg theepotad was able to get a fair view
of =wha tas gui gfdrde       U Aniear aS be Oould jtidge, aboat thirtyl'egl-
tom r ei-en   d'with nan eualir  u nber of Moderatore  S4ne ere-struggi nd
in a close encounter halt to hatid; whilee  other, partially, totected by'the ear-
roUna1ng trees  e  usrr ig their lit-arms *ith: all the .kill and  ertarity of
which they were capable. Every moment the ferocity of these misguided mnen
itre   d;'and the thirt formanfual destruntion gfgiw mo e insatiable: Seieral
had fallen, others received frightthl wonnatnd=nktili the uanatural cobfict *ent
'While Noel tbotgating lorrified at thisrangaiiary ere, he heard soem
one advancing, and turning beheld Maurice Harper and Baptiste Iorrimer
"This isla dre    'el ight "said the ftimer.
"Dut a oan't heli it;" iepiled11ll ow
"Sttagetlat the padJons of iden when altlewed  ill play; will so degrade
and brutalize them," added Maurice.
' Theni'ti   tergethen ay seatsrmentny, ybuaemane, lhse cretutt di't
caltivaftn' btierbit-.w lower pfssioe, stud -herdbr-eB large crop of evils must
bdepeeted.: A man itiatura 1Ag'e ompared=tb a garden-she r oafli ate
useful plants, or let it grow up to vile weeds and sich like.  That's the was -1
look at it, and I've made some observations in the eourte of ra life"
" 'annot'thisahamet sacrifioe of lifebi stopped Ia rioti the government
strong e&amp;igh toput iend tb all=st  olatittis of toeat d hinman riglits?"
" The fact is," answered Lorrimer, "we haint got no government. We're cut
loosefiori Meirl16, and havonlt got !rgsi  e  g eelves. Evexgthig is
at loose eh  d   ad w  'attho p  fr Auyth g bettW #tl we hate whijiped
Santa   en,,-anged daro* r rogues, made wholesome laws, ind r#rie# tie
cds    gttft *klly.  -
' He* theyfight- '     eg iltirkSeni .t1hatid 'the belity m't  a  f
For the next five minutes there was da4ti    "ttit ofrari      The
voices of the different leaders  re-heard-he ring their followers to renewed ef-
fort. The execrations, groans, and shouts of rage and defiance increased to a
din most shocking to hear. 3owie-knives flashed in the sun, and an instant af
ter  ere stained with the blood that had warmed a'human heart.
"This is Pandemonium let loose I" exclaimed Harper.
"Look I there's your old friend, Manuel Hart," resumed Noon.

'WeVfre fit,
Ynder; b      h   tikei6bd dare to s eenihiselms behind a lare cyprell
---i bcoderdi"' resu di'ec&amp;Noef.
u 1jj4 vlfttfe toilffef i anditir off y-r   t               ]sse
said tborimet.
"Ah, yes! I see the villain!1 He also has taken excellent care of his 'body
bud eddisno e 'ftieilgt  underfully. Ani nor hIave made anothlertdis-
coeidiy  JackLawieti sustainstihde on the'right. A w&amp;ihj trio, tru '
"   dAnt i will be pelearr iske' t flthir1 t A, gg thy don't apper
tolia'v:no great frien'idsip foryou: Such an opitunify as this is too good
to be TIAt, providing'tief shild seeyou" added oN9 tn.
" Did you.ever 'apdt' that Mat lf elnged to either of these parties "i-
qi red'aniioe.
"Iveharnisspipeodn sometimesidt neviknew notlin' certain about i"
"I've 'ea tund to give that cowaidlycritter a fright," said Lorrimer. 'I
don't like to see a man 'firing out from behind the trees and keepin' himself so
edisred that, tileres nochance dfor areturri shot to come within two feet of him.
T  a  eitdrop down Mresoit 6tfsigh, and I'll mae'this here holler bit of steel
spkt'o hiniin a'kindof dmobifshin* wa, to stir up his ideas like."
"'aYia'th"itendti to'sliot hii, I s'poseY"~remarked Noon.
" Not at all-I've got nothin' agin Manuel Har, that I should want toi-
u haybod, bdtit' puthre ipain,as 'twei, to see hind letti'n'bfaze at hu.
mmi  critic *lo'  't rutu  he't 6id'etmleri:n.  S lie close, boys, and 'll
gi  johk'dpeildnfor shustin'."
Harper and Noon both secreted themselves more effectually behind trees, apd
-watcliedtidimidtiosi'ol1riner. lartwas preparing ta discharge hia rite
agail.   hed iestedif again s the trunk of the cypress and was watching for
a viktliii. -
Old Lorrimer raised his rifle quickly.to his' face and held it *ith -frih aai
steady nerves; in an instant it darted forth its lame and'eracked with whi
like sharpness.
Hart dropped his rifle and recoiled in genuine alarsm, castidg;his eyes hiind4
ly around to learn from what direction the shot had come.
" He can't shoot much more to-day, I reckon," said- Lorri ietcodlIt
" What have-ypa done ?" asked Harper.
% Shot offthe hammer of his rifle."
" A happy thought and nicelyexecuted. sYou may hadesaved'mor 't
one life by so doings'
It strikes nue yr fercerbly thatenmthin'itore inight-be ddne-inlAty4yt
There's Moss and Lawless botr doin'miachfet. Mauree,let's'giv 'e baratoP
"Agreed'; I'll send a messed ipr through Meltiah 'c
He would have sent one tower than your ekp, if he'd had hir   k,"e-
turned Noon. "but I wont nw4die with- LawlesIsheadapiee  I'll jif's tt i
a lock of his beard ; that'll give him to understand that there's somebody in the
vicinity that can look through the double sights.'

5
M' h OF 'IHL RA1w i .


38

THE   AID OF THE RANCHE.

The reader may possibly imagine that feats of'this kind cannot well' be done
by the sharpest shooters that the country can producer; but - itsis .a fact that
much more skillful shooting than this has been accomplished by practeed ripe-
men with American rifles, on various occasions.  Western ;and Southern hunt.
era take muchpride and experience much satisfaction in deeds of this bold and
daring nature.
-Our hero was not unslsilled  inthe use of the rifle.~ He had been familiar with
it from childhood; and therefore when he levelled the sights upon Meltiah's
cap, he felt'no fear that he should miss his mark and injure the woodsman.. He
fred -and the repoit'was'instantly followed by that of Noon's rifle. Both Moss
acd Lawless stood irresoute atd silent ; then'the former pulled off his cap and
the latter felt his beard--.tle shots had proved true to. their aim.
Manuel Hart had already thrown himself upon the ground close to the roots of
the cypress, and now his comrades in sin followed his lead with unexampled eel-
erity, crouching so low that their bodies :were copcealed by the surrounding
brakes-.
S"You see what sneaking' villany is,"said Lorrimer. " It's afeared of every.
thin', and yet cruel and revengeful, and can't never, under no carcumstances, be
trusted. liow all these men ought to'be fighting the commonenemy of Texsa,
instead of killin' each other.. 'Isn't it a pity they won't unite to fight the Mexi.
cans ?""
"It is indeed; but see, the Moderators areprevailing. They are pressing up.
ontheir foes, hoping to drive them into the river., If there were no braver men
among them than those ere fellers yonder in the, brakes, the fight would soonh
end."
While the parties were mutually hoping that something wpuld transpire to
end this combat, the Iegulators recovered their lost ground and. pressed hard
upon their oppone ts, unexpectedly bringing our friends within the range of
both fires.
The.leader of the faction now in the ascendant-.-a tall, ferocious-looking man
with a broad chest, and great power of-lungs,' seeing Maurice and his comrades,
hailed them, desiring to know whether they were friends or enemies.
d Neither," replied Maurice ; "we are' neutral."r
"That means neither.on-one side or t'other, I take it," returned the captain,
for he was= thus distinguished.
"That's the signification of it, precisely, and I want you to hold on, a little,
and listen to reason," replied Lorrimer.
"Season aia't what we want, old 'feller, so stand out of the way, or I allow
we shall pepper you!. People as can't fight aint good for much, no way. Come
on,: oye I Hurra:l At 'eti agin-drive 'em into the river 1" shouted the leader.
The combat was being renewed with fresh' malignity, when Warpath sud-
denly ran in between the contending parties; crying
" A war party of the Camanches are coming, white men-! Ceaseto kill each
other, and turn your arms against the old enemies of your race I"

.
39

THE MAID OF THE ERANCEE.

"What's that you're sayin'?" cried the captain of 'the Moderators.
" The Camanches are close at haudand their numbers are many., They will
eat you down like grass. They are coming like the winds-there is no Lm to
be lost-who among you will fight ?"
"'Are there any Mexicans with:them?'# asked:Lorrimer.
"White men, yes; there are many Mexidds with them, and the thunder as
their horses and mustangs will Soon be heard.  Make ready your weapons-
sound the war cry--victory, or the happy hunting grounds I"
Harper instantly leaped upon a rock, and swinging his cp, took up the cry
and shouted at the top of his voice,: " victory, or the happy hunting grounds."
Lorrimer and Noel' echoed this sentiment; and 'many of the Moderators and
Regulatorscaught it up and re-echbed it earnestly; while others sullenly gazing
at each other, panting with exertion.'' '
"You have heard what oUr fied brother has said," continued Maurice.; "Be.
men, and let'this unnatural conflict ' stop where it is, thatl.you may turn you
arms against real foes. Mexico is sending=forth her legioens-they cone,-they
incite the restless Camanches against you. Your wives and children: will be
slain, and your homes leftdesolate. Arouse! 'awake ! no longer 'be' blindedby
partisan feelings. Form into order of battle, andawait firinly the approach of
the enemy."
While ilarper was speaking, a rifle ball passed through his, coat sleeve, ant
anothergrazed his left cheek., When he ceased, some 'cheered' him, others-re-.
mained silent and moody, either indifferent to what might come, or still' too full
of rancor'and liate'to care for foes otherthan those before them.
"I'll go after such of our men as I can find," said Noel Noon, "and bring,'M
to the rescue."
"Too late! to6late !' cried' Warpath. " In a moment you will hear the te
rile war-ery of 'the'Camnandhes, and the carbines of'ibe Mexicans."
A great' cah limad fallen on the disturbed human elements, and leaning on
their arms, the combatants*awaited they knew notwhat. Nature also was calm.
Not a breeze stirred the leaves; or ruffled the waters. The wounded, apparently,
suppressed.their groans with a strong effort. The smoke had.lifted, leaving the
quiet air impregnated with aulphurous still.
Suddenly the stillness 'sw broken by an awful din. Unseen enemies -shonted
their battle-dies, andasafrtling volley poured like a storm upon those who were
. busily erigayirdestroying each other a few seconds before. Harper saw two
or three drop'dead, and others receive wounds.
" Each man to a tree !" shouted Lorrimer.
"Yes, every man to a tree !" cried the leaders of therespective parties.
".And don't yield an inch while you'have strength to load and fire !" added
N oon.,       A'","        F"F''''
"Whoop ! death to tie foes of the 'white man and the Lipan 1'? cried War.
path.
"Be on your guard against Manl Hart and his two-villains,' said Noel to
Maurice, as they took trees near each other.


TM, Mai'. o ran .wca
"sThey'll belikely to getout afrthis  iges  spouos, possible,or .I 49 t
Xen  ijotbin' (of their naturs "-s  eraid Lor i .t'"
AtMpliaealteadyheardiromtwo of the  , Sep here axes-theimark on my
cheek and in my sleeve," replied Maurice.
isI heard their rifles erack-, andytried to gtsightof 'eW, but theyskspclese
sn  it was ieltfoithem thatithey Aid fet 1 Inigh'h e, dge 'eni mischief "
entih6ed Lorrimer
A. hot conflict ensued:  While"the Inadg  ept-und1ercover of the trees on
od sides a party of Mezidanegrey neeeiag;th .aUtes i numbers, mounted
pdiomsstangsf ,gained,;codrage to taoposss4nionof8. the plateau. on the.otherr
intedhig'to chargee them auddriv:themOr wtheitcovertV The moment,,bow-
e~, they entoredithe op d sppe  .the Texa   ne:  ti4   rides tra|rdesthem,
and each singling out his man, a most destruti'fre re  the immediate resuIt,6
cdsiag the asaiantat tobreak anu detreati4 4Psio~  Net wgljy disheart-
scat by'this. lav% the.ofeerscheersd theimo pgepritoy tlie plateau'.
'ow there'stwhatlcan a&amp;.fig-chance;fpyou,:boys  Take good aim,, and.
pull Ot'ent all atonce?' said!:Lea'' , er.  ',
"lroW, my ladsis your time  D  cooI,-.-now  hay 'em--blase away."
t the eond i:ir the Mexiana fled inutter demay, for every othn saddle
was emptied, and the mustangs that bore them went riderless away. -They at
tqte&amp;to rally againbut the men were dishertened, and;the.,pflcers could
aotfoetcetheiiti6 the;plateaufor tha tlird-tim e; .adindeed i iadoub~il
uiethe thiey st ove very;lrd to:do so.,-.
They learned, to their.cost, the mustaneoacality.wereofl49l .ue,
awI thdrew out of reach, of Teagrifeos
Pressed no longer by the Mexican horse, they now turned their.attention ex-
cflit vey to thein red enemieswho cbtinUed tQ attack them.: th great fury.
Before their pe3severing asaalts the exes wreTorced toyield,sand =now give
balk,tep byistep; using, theirweapois withef'et whenever opportunityoffered.
She Uainaiohes seldom showed:anytart ofd their bodies, butwhen they did,
egn if itwere the smallest part; of the,. they; were, sure to receive a ,wound
Which was geneirally mortal.
inThis wont do !" oried Lorrimer,when hewsaw that they"ere. losing gFouid.
"    must'drive 'em, or.here wont be Q ' of.n eleftto :tell the store
ev e ca fatee:hem firm thirteyet into thcfopen prairie ;i  their rear
shallbeditorious, ifI -I knomanyfig ofT~ n a warfare," returned . arper."
"You're right, young man; so le 'pashem har repl edsLofrer.Ti
way-this way T"
Whilp-th y e4 pressingplantlyupo t     .e asvagesMeurice beheld..Noel
1l oondi;teey attacked by tew.pe  rful Inda.- Our hero woul have speed-
"      ily rushed to the assistance of his friend, had he not at that moment been  m-
sofssas   y by afifhose'ivele haoften b eacheard.in'battle, cheering his
warriors to the work of destruction.
N   per ws .ra mnsculat:.and ioetis, but hired foemax was, lithe-aid
strong, and he could not easily dispost iim-  Whilestrilig to throw bn to.

1TJAE AID Or,'TH  EAC 3.

I

.1

0

41

the ground-in order to despatch im,he received thet'N onv pfeat osing his
strength,and eCuld not much lofiger contend with'two mwh athtio ezeing.
correentrating all his powers, he't the'Inianfrdmnhim with $.h force thit
he filatthe}foot 4f aitzeettdghishdha      ilnit!the'gdied rodL.
Wili tetopigrto givehin tie eC p4e grace, airieejr'ang t tEe lsas-
tacue of '"his friend, nor rheah1 him tan distant too Aon, fr lie  ad al ed
sunk to his kneeand a hatchet was upraised to give the fatal blo. -. arl r
caught'h  uplift   armwithl hisletthend, nd desltathe t Age le   betWeen
the eyes'with-his"fight fist thatknd ked'hlm  in.  reenhing the tomahawk k
frokn{he looened grasp'of the lilen'fde, i~arie'sunk it briglitedgeidto'hfi
hea~l, etigitutlitnbs lyilgstilid sitless,'taldiobW easilythe aout f tlie
warrior had pased..
Nooe sank exhausted to the earth, and 1faifi ireulewed the couftictover hI
body with the surviving 'Camanehe. rUnfortunately  while thus engaged, the
savage who had first assaulted him, recovered his sense and his feet, and canie to
the assistance of'the other, so that Maurice 'hsa two enenIes 'tocontend with
and Noon unable to assist hirh.
Our hero was now in fearful peril, for the attacks of his antagonists were ftri-
ous and well directed. At the critical moment wheniis fate apefied on the
eye of  being d~eidedl, 1onest, who had been left at 'the campon accouniitof hay-
ingabn light y wdiindea y'a buck, came bounding to the scene and with a
loud yell 'f rage,lea'pedit the throat of the foremost savage afid dragge'd him
to the groinid, w ile in tie act of striking with his tomahawk.
Encouraged by this unlooked for and 'providential assistance, Maurice seized
his remaining opponent around his body, and lifting him tip cast him to the earth
falling with all his weight upon his chest, 'driving the breath from his hinge, and
for a moment paralysing all his faculties.
Maurice glanced about for a weapon, and seeing a h1unting-knife 'uear hire,
sheathed it irthe breast of the Oamanche.
Meantime, Honest had been struggling with the other, both roling about
among the dry leaves and exerting all their strength. For a time taurice stood
watching them, unable 'to assist his faithful canine friend, so rapid were the evo-
lutions of the combatants. .Soon the Indian ceased to writhe and roll; his limbs
straightened out, quivered an instant, and then remained quiet.
Harper turned his hea from the spectacle with a shudder, and a sigh of
regrect.                         '11
CHAPiEUR VII.
O UR  H ER~O  B E-O 9ME    U NP OIPU LAER.
I' was quiet evening hour. The fight had ended. The foe-ha4 bee repulsed,
and the survivors were'resting-after'the fatigues of the contest.  Harper was
alone, not far from the place where the new company was to rendezvous.


42                    THE MAID OF TIE RANCE.
The day just ended, had furnished his first experience in warfare,:and he natu.
rally dwelt on the scenes through which he had passed. He had shed blood, and
his better thoughts instinctivelyshrank from the memory of. what he had done.
Ile had fought in selt defence, but even that rejection failed to make him feel
quite at ease. Some internal monitor seemed to -tell him that it was wrong to
take life under any circumstances, although the whole civilized world would justi-
fy him in doing as he had.       .
He was absorbed in meditations of his nature, when}the restless movements of
honest advised him thatsome person was approaching. Looking between the
intervening trees,. Maurice beheld an individual of erect carriage and assured
bearing, deliberately advancing. Honest walked towards the intruder, growling,
but he spoke to him in a conciliating tone, and the animal eyeing him sharply,.
made no farther hostile demonstrations.
Your dog is trying to read my character, I perceive, sir,"remarked the stran-
ger.                                        .
"And I believe he has succeeded before this time," replied Maurice.
" Wonderful instincts have dogs. I some times wish I was a dog myself," re-
turned the other.
"A. singular fancy, truly," observed our hero, with a smile.
"I will tell you why I have had-such a strange whim. It is because dogs are
capable of acting disinterestedly. They can feel a friendship which death only
can extinguish. They are faithful creatures-they do their best, and those that
do their best, man or beast, do their duty,.and all that can be required of them."
"There is reason in that."
"So there is in your dog. Just look at his large eyes ; are they not half
human in their expression ?  He's worth a king's ransom 1"
"More than that, to me," said Maurice.
" By the way, I have heard rumors of a fight."
" There has been one ; yes, two, for that matter."
And-"
"The Texan rifles have been victorious."
"I am glad to hear it. You perhaps saw something of the fray. How was
it ?"
Harper stated what has been described,'to which' recital the strangerlist-
ened with deed interest.
"So you have been engaged for the first time. What do you think of it ?"
" I regret the necessity that compels men to slay each other, be they red or
white," returned Maurice.
" A proper feeling ; but stern necessity compels us to fight, at the present
crisis. I have heard that the hunters up in'this region were raising a band of
brave lads to oppose the march of the myrmidons of the Dictator of Mexico ?"
" True again. Fair lips have nameli them ; they',are to be called, ' The
Hunters of the Border.'"
"A smoothly going title, really; it sounds feminine, and I hope the boya who

THE MAID Or THE RANCHE                       43
bear it will not dishonor themselves by an act of cruelty or cowardice.  Who
is to lead this redoubtable band ?"
'"Your humble servant has been talked of," replied Maurice, coloring ; "bet
I think I shall decline in favor of one older, and more experienced."
"Yes, experience and courage are two requisites to be combined in a military
leader. Veterans are needed, no doubt, to fill responsible offices."
" I intend to win my position, before I accept' any place of trust, be it high
or low," returned Maurice, somewhat proudly.
"Quite right. I respect the feeling that prompts you to take such a course."
"May I ask who you are ?" inquired Maurice, now turning full upon the
stranger, aTd regarding him steadily.
"It's ani honest question, and deftly put. I am called Dorville."
"iDorville ; I don't remember to have hdard it ; but I daresay it's a very
good name. You carry a rifle, and appear to- be rigged cap-a-pie in hunter's
garb."
"Which, being interpreted, is equivalent to asking what my business is ? You
have guessed it ; I am a hunter. Come, lead the way to your camp. I should
like to see some of your fellows."
" You are a true man, I suppose ?"
" That remains to be proved. There can be but two ways about it-I am, or
I am not ; let time show. You carry a rifle, also, and are dressed in the style
of the backwoodsman ?"
"I am what you see."
"Not a native of this part of the country ?"
"I am not."
"From Virginia, perhaps ?"
Maurice paused, colored slightly, and looked at the stranger before replying.
" Yes, Mr. D Qrville, I am from the State you have mentioned."
" Perhaps your name is Harper ?"
"That's what I answer to. I shall begin to suspect that you are a conjurer,
soon."
"News always flies rapidly, especially bad news. I am somewhat ubiquitous,
Mr. Harper."
'And ambiguous, too, I should say."
* Possibly."
'I cannot say that I understand you."
".Well, I am in the habit of travelling through this portion of country, and
hear pretty much all that transpires ; so your name is not unknown to me."
"Not discreditably known, I hope ?"
"You probably best know whether you deserve to be known favorably or
-       otherwise," replied Dorville, somewhat drily.
"I certainly do, Land pardon me if I choose to consider it a matter relating ex-
elusively to myself."

t S.


'4

0

Tat 4 n :P acs r qrnv.

.Derg'illemadea zi pg gdy,   t s  rties wgked 'sslowly towards the encamp-
Doz kRnQw    Ath hrgl?" eked Dprlle,,rptlyat length.
' But slightly ;_I apet ldm gnlg:far time "
And iisaughtar4?'
EI have seen ke*."
1And so Ihave I, and hey ?terpstne exceedi y."
"Indeed I"5
';Yes, loaseyou, I oe tobe nearthem, Icpow not vhy. There is mu-
ietowe in the stones pf their spes."
" Have you any preference for either of th,e a ppked Maurice, frowning
and casting a restle- laokat floryille.
"I confess I have. Iri lileases ipe bpst.  am distinctively drawn towsrds
her ; .et I lhavesegsnher but a few times
*              "I suppose you are old enough to fall in love ?"
."Old enough?  Ye; pI'mpptforty. My young days have gone, and et I
fOl young when I listen toth emr c l voice of Iris ' hburn."
Our hero, who had at first been considerably impressed in favorof the stran-
ger, soon began to feel differently towards him. Miss EIsthburn was nothing to
hm,it was true, bat he did not lke to hear in spealc of er insuch a familiar
wa, or-manifest such a: decided preference for her.
"Perhaps you had better speak to the young lady's father," he added, with
quiet sarcasm.
"That might do for you, young man, but I prefer to address myself to the
lady herself."
Harper felt that his face was in a glow, and for nioent he fervently ished
that the assured and rbane Daryile yes in some distant locality.  Still the
stranger interested him., There was somet i  bg 99nt him that was pleasing,
notwithstanding his presumptidn; for presumptip opr ;iero esteemed his gonver-
,sation concerning Iris athkur
But there was another thing o be considered ; would not this pleasing some-
thing about the man Dorville be likely also toattract the attention of the fair
maiden in question ? Certainly I nothing more probable. The girl saw but lit-
tie society, and the appearance of such a peron as Dorville would obviously
produce an effect on her youthful imagination. Indeed, such a result might rea-
sonably be looked for ; and perhaps he-bhd alxerdy dazzled her girlish fancy.
-*hatiif, le had ? Had he any claims on Miss  thburn ? No. .Had he ever
made'a single effort to win her affections? He had not. Why then di, ie feel
uncomfortable ? Was he jealous ?
'Our hero 'would'not confess to himself that he was ; but gtbers are at liberty
to form a different judgement.
erties teaehed the encampment. It was a spot near the river,,oi an

open piece of- bottom land. Several small huts or camps had been erected for
the accommodation of those who were willing to unite to meet the common en-
emy. By the joint efforts of Noel Noon, Lorrimer, Harper, and others, quite a
number had already gathered. Those that had horses :had -ridden them-to the
encampment, and such as had none managed to purchase -them. Several 'per-
sons who-had formerly'-belonged to the Moderators and Regulators, had joined
this little band, and were now ready 'to be led against the-fotee of Santa Anna.
A leader had not yet been selected. Harper had been talked of 'to fill this
qice, principally through the instrumentality of Noon and Lorrimer. But the
young .man was a stranger to most of them, and =it seemed, also,.that }reports not
very favorable to the character of Maurice had by some 'feans, and .threagh
some channel, reached the ears of the men--Noon among the number, as has
been noticed in another place.
When Harper and Dorville appeared, the recruits were gathered;in groups id
various spots, conversing upon this subject- There was much talking, gesticu-
lation, apd grave shaking of heads in relation to the matter. Noel Noon stood
a little aloof, regarding the proceeedings with a serious and troubled expreision.
Lorrirper approached-him, having the same uneasy look.
"Thy're goin' to vote," he said gloomily. " How will it go, think you'?"
".Agin him."
" I think po, Lorrimer, and-and I'm sorry. He's a fine appearin' lad, and
would make a good officer."
"Yes, but the men have been 'influenced. They want to know if you'll'stand
s a candidate ?"
"No, I couldn't," said Noon, thoughtfully. " I've promised that young man
ny friendship, and I can't think of goin' agin him."
"Better have you than.a worse man, friend Noon"
"I can't do it, and you may tell 'em so. If they'll choose him the first offi-
cer, I wont greatly object to 'hem' second. 'But I wont do nothin' different. He
may be to blame, but I'll stick to him ; that's my natur, and I can't get over it."
" It's a true, manly, sort of senterment, I know, but then Manuel Hart amt
the man to lead me again' the Mexicans."
" Manuel Hart 1",exclaimed Noon, with a start.
"That's the name tlat'll be afore 'em, if you decline."
"Lorrimer, you're the oldest-you're the man as can best 'lead us to battle.
I'll speak of it, and you mustn't, on no account, say nothin' again it."
"I can fight wel,.perhaps, Noel Noon, but I can't do much in military way,
I'm afeared. I know my own daty, but I don't know that of other folks."
" That's what we. went-egample, and'not'talk. -.If you ride up to the enemy
boldly, others will ride after and imitate you. So say no more."
"ant I'd rather fuller you or the young man, Harper?'
"dAb, there he comes! I'l go and speak to him about 'this onpleasant matter
and kind of prepare him for the'disappointment," said Noon.
" Break it to him kind of gentle like," added Lorrimer.

Txt  MAID -OF -;THERANCHE.


TAE- MAID OF THE - RANCHES.
Noel advanced to meet Harper, who was already coming towards him with
Doryille.
"Iow do you do, Noel Noon ?" said the latter.,
" We've met afore, I believe," returned the hunter, scanning hin closely.
"Yes, several times ; but my memory is better than yours, it seems."
"Now I remember ; your name is Dorville. Glad to see you among us; that
is, if you come with the right kind of feelin's."
" We shall see, Noon, we shall see why and for what I come, all in good
time. '.Perhaps yop want to speak with IMr. Harper 2"
"Yes, I have got a few words tosay to him.  This way, friend Harper, if
you please.. The fact is," he continued, taking the arm of Maurice, "affairs are
taking a strange turn agin' you. There seems to be some secret undercurrent
at work, carryin'' you dowzn stream, so to speak as 'twere."
a "I know it-I feel it, friend Noon," said our hero, earnestly.,
"They're throwin' ;ou overboard, I'm afeared. I thought I'd warn you of it,
so you needn't feel too much disappointed when you come to hear ont."
"My good Noel, I shan't be much disappointed, for I've already made up my
mind to give up all thoughts of being a leader, at present. I mean to win my
place, before I am elevated to~any post of trust and honor. You must be pur
captain."
"Me! rude Noel Noon ! No !. I'm firm on that pint. If you was to be
first, I'd be second with pride and pleasure, but on no other conditions."'
"This sacrifice you are making for me. Pray don't; change your mind. I
want no better, bolder, truer leader than yourself."
" I'm jest like a rock, Maurice Harper ;, it's of no use for you to keep ham-
merin' at me, expectin' to change my mind, for it can't be done."
"Brave Noel I" exclaimed Harper, and then relapsed into silence. At the ex-
piration of a few seconds he roiused himself and asked :
"Do you know the reason of this sudden change of sentiment among the
Men?"
"I. couldn't say as I'm altogether ignorant of it. It's some kind of rumor or
another. that's got afloat."
" I should like to know what it is," returned Maurice, earnestly.
" Perhaps you'll know some day or other," rejoined Noel, hesitatingly.
"I see one yonder who looks like Manuel Hart," said the young man quite
abruptly.    =
. "He's aursng us, and I'm sorry for it, for he'll never be a good friend of yours.
"He wona fight, Noel ; therp's nro true courage in him."
" That's ry opinion ;, but he can make mischief."
" Well, let things take their course ; be assured that I have nothing to fear.
The rule of eternal rectitude will prevail. The guilty, the false, the cowardly,
have reason .o-anticipate defeat and ultimate disgrace ; not the honest, the
truthful, Abe just."
"Just to.",

THE MAID OF THI RANGHE.                       4"
"I bave observed that there is a discordant element at work-that 'aniifuin.
ence hostile to myself is rife among those with whom I had hoped to associate
on the best of terms-as brothers in arms. If Manuel Hart slanders my name
-if he places a false mark of calumny upon me, let him look well to it, for I
will track him out and punish his basenesss. I could even now justly accuse
him of a serious crime-that of attempting my life, as he did through the instru-
mentality of Meltiah Moss. But, as you know, I have been silent on that sub-
ject, choosing to bide my time, and permit him to lay his schemes, and go un-
whipt a little longer. Believe me, I am watching yonder backwoodsman, and
the time approaches when I will unmask him. His audacity in appearing here
in my sight, and among persons collected partly through my influence, is aston-
ishing."
"I wonder at it myself ; but see,.they are voting."
" I care but little how this affair turns, so far as the desire to be a leade- is
concerned ; but I should not like to be defeated by unfair and underhand
means."
"Here comes Lorrimer and Dorville. Now we'll learn how it's goin'."
".Who is this Dorville ?"
" That's what I should really like to know myself."
" Then you have no knowledge of his character, residence, or pursuits?"
"I couldn't say that I have; I've met him, and that's all. Here they are.
Flow goes the battle ?"
"They'll come themselves and tell us. I've no heart to'talk about it."
"Then it's gone against our wishes ?"
"Yes," said Dorville, "I presume- it has, in some'respects, although you will
loubtless be pleased to hear that our friend Lorrimaer is to be your captain."
" That pleases us," said Harper, with a smile.
"W'o is second in command ?" inquired Noon,:anxiously.
" Manuel Hart," rejoined forville, fixing his eyes steadily upon Maurice.
"That's bad-bad enough ! I wonder who had the chief agency in his eloo-
tion ?"
" Rathburn."
"Rathburn I" exclaimed Harper, blushing to the temples.
- "The same--the young lady's father whom we recently talked of," returned
Dorville, calmly.
Noel:and Maurice looked at each other, and both appeared ccuofused.
" There's something wrong here, and I half wish that 'The Hunters of the
Border,' had never been raised by our, agency."
" Do not entertain such feelings on my account, but think only of the high ob-
jeetwhich we have in view-the rescue of this unhappy and distracted country
fron Mexican ttirall."
".A worthy sentiment, certainly. I applaud your motives," resigned Dorville.
" I trust none of ua have any selfish incentives toseek the field. At least, I
qaa speak for my two friends here," replied Harper.


48                   TMe MAI - OF "TA:E  A oC.
.oebne seintimated to Mauriehetthe beld like to iave-msore;na'uver stios
rih imnd rm-inatn theywalked way.
-         .-4
CHAPTER VII.
THE 4YVPTT5 OF ;IrE "I
I"mivu been thinking,'"said Noon, "that'it wont'be quite safe down at Rath-
burn's to-night."
" Precisely-myown-fedlings," rejoined Harper.
"Perhaps a few of us ought to go down and keep guard there. Small squads
'of Me icans or atnanches may be lurkin'-ab'out the vicinity, who wont mind
doin' alittle mischief if they can get a chance"
" We had better speak to Lorrimer about it, and :thoe nsteal'away to the
Ranche without attracting observation."
"And I rill tell him, if he beats us re, to ome to our assistance immediate-
-ly, with ad6zen men or moreY
" That will do well. Go and arrange it with the captain, and I will await
ypur return."
Noel having attended ;to this part of the business, our two friends, directed
their steps towards the Ranehe, to keep unseen vigils over the maidens, in
whom both felt a deeper interest than they were willing to acknowledge.:
"We'll take different stations,#' said Harper. ." Myself and honest will post
ourselves yonder on the most exposed side, and you, if so disposed, oai .-be on
the alert here, or anywhere else that yone good judgment asy dictate."
Mauriee Look a position among some black -oak and ash trees, a few yards
from thMtide of-theoordal towards the river. Signifying toH'onest in -a  an-
ner perfectly comprehensible to him, that he was expected to be aiaent ,nd
watchful bur young soldier lean e musinglyanon'his rifle, and, watehe'd the
-ights daicing by the window -within the dwelling.  -
It is morethan probable that he wished that be might see the graceful fgaure

Te. Main:,owrHE, RAxco4;d
of- I  filt past~he:transparent piaesa ristand a inomeent1 behind ;them twitha
view of looking out upon the surroundingesoenery.' Maurieefel t.lsad,;h} p e-
se imentof evilbarrassed him,. The factthatL there -had  been sucho aneddea
revolution in the sentiments of The Hunters of the Border,-wprised andpa ied-
hi   ,   foraaeshis: hqerswas coucerned hef was exceedinglyt-sedsitive.'  He
was anxious to sustain a good name every where, and under all circumstance
.4l og. he.had resolved tdeoline:leadinggthe newcompasy, apo captainI he
w a np  ithstandingextremelymdrtiied and wonded  - hisifeeliegs, n aeedut
of hiei gnergipious an unacountable-rejection.
]Ter ew that Iri Rathbnmr wouldhear tof his digraeeand thu idea st'eeted'
his rinoreournledsgatly thamheh  .supposed it .possible.. He hardly knew the
msaningof, it, but thus-it was ,,and heohad;not there phulkeophyt-o think what
night be the effect!upon. here withoutpainful emotions.E For some reason ,h-.
desired to stand well in the estimation of the maiden.
Meditatiqns ofsthia-char alter had-occupied the mind of our. hero-for1 half-an.
hqar when the:restlessnessr of Honest:,induced:hinto.,suspeeb that-somenov"
was near, .,Following the directionof, the dog's eaimest looksHarper sdon
perceived a   gure emerging from thetreesa short distn e below-hit, and.ap'
proaol:the Ranche withoutrnoise.
With bfelings.not of- the mimst pleasant deseription rthe yeung man recogdi ed
Manuel: ast. I appeared also that his canine companion made the same die-
eovery, for it was with much difficulty that he could keep him quiet ; he wished.
toeperingtuppa thefintrr.
Hart advanced to the window where the lighthsd beenrefisted mostepaV
pably. He paused, listened intently,-and-then-tapped gently upon thesashi'There
was no responge;and he repeate&amp;=t eoperation-. 'resently arfemeal'form-appea-
*ed, and the window was:cautiously raise4nlittle.
S aeper stood so still;that:he-conld{ hear his own-heart beating-with ntmat -
cal vehemence. He was thinking-that,maidens:didenothave -young.galidnts tap'
pingsit heirwindows without'previe-s. agreement. He bent - forwardttdacteh
the-tones of: her voice if !sheshould speak. She spoke,,but so low- th tihe euld-i
a"o  erstind what she said. Hart-replied;in the samekey,; and hmried-ce
veratiow was carried:on:
Then Maurice caught a few words. He heard Manuel say somethingitrele.
tion to a "defeat," and had no doubt that:be alluded to' hiseown'rejection by-the
borderers. Immediately he.added::
'" All are convinced of it. The proofs are positive -n&amp;cadnt bedoabted no
hef  tYo    fa er's-down1hard on-hi."
Some exclamation of surprise escaped the lips-otkIris.apad-Hartresumede
"There can't be no mistake. He's attempted the same thing heretwice,4o
my certain knowledge~ Hu'll have'to leavatheeountry; can't -be4restedad
E   bragrees wi  vme abougit."
"Is the danger.-pat forpthe pVeeentdo yo thi k" inquitedIrisrearnestly:.
"'Tii inthat quartest .We =whipped  '  thoroughly  Som  folkero away
though, on the first fire."

rt


50                   THm MAID OF THE' RANCHE.
" Such fights are dreadful to think of! Why do the Moderators and Regula.
tors assume sttchrahostile attitude towardseach other ?1
Because the Regulators need to be segulated, and the Moderators mean to do
it. It can't be helped."
"When)will the hunters of the Border 'march down the Brazos ?" added the
maiden'
"Right away. Old Lorrimer---not a fit person for a captain, by a great deal
-is-bent on going' after the Mexicans ; but it seems to me there's fightin' en-
ough nearer home to keep us all busy. For instance, in conferdence atween you
and I, the country ought to be cleared of the Regulators and this floatin' popu-
lation comin' in front other States to escape their desarts But I must be goin'.
Be careful of yourself,'keep clear of strangers, and remember there's worse ene-'
mies nor Camanches and Mexicans, without going' a long distance to find 'em
either."
Other'remarks followed which did not reach Harper's ears, and then Hart gli-
ded away as he came. - What Maurice had heard did not increase his happiness,
having a pretty well-founded suspicion that it, in some way; had relation to
himself. He waited until ten or fifteen minutes had elapsed after Hart's depar-
ture, and then he proceeded to the window which had been the scene of the re-
cent interview. He was not quiteso assured and bold, however, as his prede-
cessor had appeared, but nevertheless he tapped upon the sash in the same
manner.
There was a momentary pause, then he heard a light step within. The win-
dow :was not raised, but a voice inquired who was there?
"Maurice Harper," returned the young man.       J
Iris recoiled a step, and was'obviously surprised and disconcerted.
" I have not come to harm you," said Maurice, calmly.
Iris hastily raised the window, as if ashamed of her embarrassment and dis-
trust, if indeed she had felt anything of the latter.'
"Thinking that you might' very naturally experience - feelings of uneasiness,
knowing that enemies are in the vicinity, my friend,Noel Noon is keeping watch
near the Ranche, in order to secure your safety. I thought this information
might make you happier, and secure your rest through the night," said Maurice,
respectfully."
Iris colored. "Is he alone ?" she inquired. '
"No ; a young man is with him," replied Maurice.-
"«May I ask his name?"      -
"Really, I do not happen to recall it, at this moment, but you will certainly'
be warned, if danger approaches."
" I thak you, Mr. Harper."
" No thanks tome, Miss Rathburn. Noel Noon alone deserves them."
Iris:Rathbup looked earnestly at Maurice, but his face did not express any
peculiar emotions ; it was placid and even cold in its expression.
"'So Baptiste Lorrimer is your captain ?" said Iris,, as if tc prolong the con.
'ersation.

THE MAID Of THE RANOHE.                       51
"Yes, Miss Rathburn ; I was rejected as a candidate, almost unanimously."
Again the maiden scanned the features of Maurice. She wondered to hear
him talk of' the matter so quietly, and with the manifestation of so little=dis-
appointment. She had thought 'that he would probably speak of it with oon-
siderable bitterness.
" Captain Lorrimer will make an excellent officer. I shall gladly follow him
to the field, to battle, and through danger," he resumed.
" And how are you pleased with your second officer?" asked' the young lady,
with an effort.
"Excuse me,~Miss Rathburn ; do not press ipe to express my opinion. I pre-
fer to think of the gallant name you have given us?-The Hunters of the Bor-
der."
"You owe that to my sister Ramona-not to me."
" I will owe it to both, if you please."
"'As you will.. May you all display courage and fidelity in the discharge of
duty."
"I shall prize those qualities more since you admire them," returned Maurice,
with more warmth.
"Express my obligation to Mr. Noon and the young man with him, whgso
name you do not happen to recall," said Miss Rathburn, with some trepidation.
Maurice bowed.
"It is singular that father has not returned before this time," added Iris.
"He has been busy with the men, I believe, since the battle," returned *b
young man.
"In relation to the choice of leaders ?".
"I think so, although I have takn so little interest in the matter,that I can-
not be confident en that poig't."
" Was he in favor of those who were chosen?"
" Really 1 am not qualifieA to say, but perhaps Mr. Hart will be able to giye
you definite information," rejoined Maurice, in tones that appeared to Miss Rath.'
burn to be slightly sarcastic. She had entertained an uneasy suspicion that
Maurice bad been a witness to the interview between herself and Manuel hart,
and his last answer confirmed it. She was too much disconcerted to make an
immediate reply, and her face and neck were suffused with a crimson glow.
Maurice instinctively fathomed her thoughts, but made no efforts ,to remove
her suspicions, or exculpate himself from the charge of being an inquisitive, delib-
erate listener to matters that did not require the presence of a third person.
" I think I understand the meaning of your last, remark. What has trans-
pired, I could not prevent ; and," she added, in a lower voice, " am I not mis-
tres of my own actions?"
" You have discretion enough to be, certainly, Miss Rathburp. I hope a mind
like yours will never be forced to act otherwise than voluntarily."
"I see how I am misconstrued, Mr. Harper; but, pardon me, I do not-do
t choose to be watched in an unkindly manner."

a


THE  MAID or s' vn  Axrc~x.

t WNatched?" repeated Haaper, in a deprecating tone.
lii *dsmldweepig, and cold not answer,
"W   'it giver-yeAleatire-to consider me as. aprying- eavesdropper,:erper$i.
eneingsatidt&amp;tioi indlurking aroubd peacefai dwellings for there purpose of wit.
nessing stolen interviews between youthful maidens and their lovers?? asked
Ma*ioeu nx  egethdy repraeehful.
"No more, Mr. Harper     , had expected something different froin you,'
retir aedr is, With' dignity=
" Do we part with unkindly feelings?"-
*'hodit ib, Mr: Harpers'
"latwell'Misrathbtlia " said Maurice, mournfully;
While Iris was slowly closing the window, Honest placed his large paws upon'
the sill, and licked her hand rif tosblioitrherattentioti  She'saw his-intelligeht
eyes beaming kindly upon her, and instantty-the service he had rendered hdr" a
fe# days previously *si alled,'and apang of reproach shot through her mind,
accusing her of ingratitude and severity. She stooped until her dark curls rest-
ed upoethi headthiaked"hihaihfwhispers=and-caresisd him with' her sift haid
She felt that she had perhaps wronged his master, and she resolvednot to -be
utguatsfuI{te thiitt Shehiad a~bouthei'neelt a wide and handsome' ribbon,
saee   by a=itall, bear pi ; uaf te nidngthis, seat neel transferred it to-the
neck of Honest, who remained perfectly quiet until the operatio- was'conipletbd,
then elites ig hi sstlsiet o  y -n oti'onwrof hisrshriggy fall;;iod thweloquende
of hie  ,leaped awayAfter hismaster.
Miss Rathburn shut the window, and sitting down near it, wept profusely
Harper walked some considerable distanee before' stopping, not withingfIris
tor kov t safhe-intdede reilg- ini=the vfcinity- 'lie seatd himself on the
bank of the'river, and by some mental algebra, arried'eat the nonelusion thtashe
was unhappy. If any person had asked himn-hHwe wrs6, it w would haf &amp;eeh
exceedlidglydif lti-rlfdhiin1t ha-sridd tle natteri perfectI lucid. - Aud yet
ther-eke'was miseiable edubgh fde tom. Had he  d iadenitsell of being is oe
he would have-denied the eharge promptly-and with tmueh -spiri. -8e hewatt-
ed the turbid'water of the Bi tnb thinking how niuch ijetire Mi Ritlhb
had denehint, by itiniating tbt the had exercised ntnaitly  atouidsty; o w* '
there fdo another' p rpei the aW  gddjode
I  est laid=his; cold ieseaga ist-hls na ter's cheek and 'tried to attra ofhis
notice;, bri iiwas'lMg U  ei d  Od nud ici a  in 3c# itntb:-A  l
ribbottipOdzihfs neclk catui1 his eye; nd heftaiibid 1tlwitb meh- t'ibsitj Adi
not, ifttleentp is .-
SAbn y gbodfriend; whei did'you' get-thig ptett'softueit?'
Honest did not speak vocally, but he looked towards thii I et'nIe.-
S ind shegave th fai li's Isd, anhuily-
"She has bestdcefdru#ji yewgkct  akidf'-'frei dlip tldrshhs-eg
to-honor'    t wtihk   fttl1    atii' the  te6k~ibt 6mi wiii  i e .lia  d-
covered the initials of the fair dotbon &amp;iae.'

I

3$

THE E[MAD oF -i I RANCnE.
It loamy rather out of place ou your large neck, neverthelesa I -wilt not reb
yt    - it, Weai it and weloine; Honest, and show the person=who attemptato
take it away the quality of your teeth."
'  arper roseid -went back-:to his former station. reachedd it'justin time
to see Dorville reconnoitering the premises. This was anothernew, and t&amp;Ma .
rice;,unpleasant-developeinent. . What possible motive had that individual for
prowling (that was the word he used mentally) about the building at that hour?
lie was -really at a less to- divine tbe occasion of Dorviiii's appearance - there.
:Ard it: is.not wonderful that suspicion of his new acquaintance should awaken
a slight twinge of Jealousy in his mind.
He restrained his displeasure, and remained passively at his post, awaiting the
denouient whatever-it might be. Bit nothing uncommon transpired."-After
walking noiselessly about the place for a shorttime, he turned on his heel and
went away.
Maurice rejoiced at his departure, end asked himself:whoswould next appent,
a4d-how-many lovers Miss'Rathbr had? He was .;estined to keep -guar' as
hour before the first of these questions could be answered,
At the expiration of that period, a more startling manifestation occurred. A
party of six persons, mounted upon horses, rode up to the corral, when one of
them'dismounted-and approached tiewindow which had already been the scene
of two interviews. Harper~tlioghthe, recognized the figure, but resolved to
await the unfolding of the plot.
Thenman instead of knockingaie the sash-withautthet-formality,-and tbras
tig inthishead said
" Areyou here,.gals?"
There being no answer to this salutation,the intruder spokeina louder key.
SIsy agis anybody in these there diggins?"
"Whoispeaks?"-said a -voice-which Harper recognized.
"Ani indervidoval,"-returned the 'firstspeaker.
What do you want ?"
:1 reckon iyouire sent for."
Maywhom,and for what?"
"Your father, I rather allow, wants- yn to go with-usetoaone place r othe't
whar you'llibessortcif safe"
"And you; have-come for u?" said Iris.
"It amounts to that exactly, miss," added the man, clambering in at the- wia
dow.
"what is yourname! if yf pleass"
"Well, it don't matter greatly what my name happens to be at thislhe,bt
fortheomike of-bein' aceomevdatin  I llifevyor tiheit' +M s-a go od fr ed
of your friend-Manueleirt "
"iWhydo you;c oe in,.ithoats invitation? ?  taw  re youhale .ca  no
nearer-I wish to question gou before I consideryouer erranosiosly'
"Better git ready to go. nor lose no:tmne. Espect that-tie India*Ill be
down on the Ranche every minit."


54                    Tass MAID OF THE .RANOH!.
"I am afraid to gowith this person," said Ramona, promptly.
So.apm I, and Lrefuse, without further question, to lease home;" added Iris,
firmly.
"There's six ,of us allmounted, with two spare bosses, and you may depend'on't
we can perteet yourladies," resumed Moss."
" Where do you expect to find a place of greater security that this ?" asked
Ramona.s
"Well, somewhar or other, I can't jest tell whar, but Manuel Hart-that is
I mean your father, knows all about it, and he'll ine us a short way from here.
Here the two girls evidently consulted togetherin whispers, and then -Iris
spoke-for both
"Mr. Moss, if you have come on a good and worthy errand, we thank you ;
abut ee prefer to remain where we are."
"Then we shall be obleeged to carry you by main strength, gals, which wont
on all,aceounts be pleasant.",
Meltiah Moss coollystepped to the door, opened it, and called to three of his
associates.to come in.

CHAPTER .IX.

f

OCCURRENCES AT THE RANCHE.
Tagnthree persons indicated, threw their bridles ,to their companions, and dis-
mounting passed through the corral to join Meltiab. Harper perceived at a
glance that Jack Wild, or Jack Lawless, as he was indiscriminately termed, was
one of the actors'in the scene,
He now deemed it time to interfere, in order to prevent the contemplated out-
rage upon the personal liberty of the two maidens,. As he advanced quickly to-
wards the window, he heard the young ladies 'utter cries of alarm, and with a
bound he sprang through it and stood in the midst of the parties. Honest, who
never was a laggard in a good cause, followed close at his master's heels. .Coi-
siderable astonishment was depicted on the countenances of these four worthies
at ithe unexpected debut of, our bold Virginian."
" You're thar, ar ye ?" exclaimed Lawless, with a wicked leer of the eye.
"You've come without an invite, I take it, sorter,' said Meltiab, in his care-
lespway. -
Grasping his double-barrel rife firmly, Maurice stood erect and silent, re-
gagding them without quailing, deigning no answer,:while Honest sat watchful
,zo the left of the parties, and clsping each other by the hand, stood Iris and
Ramona, tremblingly awaiting the issue of the reneontre.
A'qung ladies,'' said Maurice, ' is it your wish to go with these men ?'
" No, No I1'Mriedboth in scbreath.
"'Then you shkelne*,"replied the yonng-man.

THE .,AID_ OF THE RANOH E.                   55
'That's putting' it rayther strong, I reckon," added Moss.
I allow," said Lawless, raising his Carbite and leveling it at Honest, "that
it's time for that four-footed panther to go under."
Maurice instantly stepped before: the dog, and drew from his hunting sack a
six barrel revolving pistol,
"Fire, and it will bethesignal for your own;death.!" he said, sternly.
Lawlessdropped the butt of his carbine sullenly to the floor, muttering-:.
.Thar agin ; allers thar,! But the time'l come when I'll see both of ye kick
the bucket, and knock under in a way as'11 be uncommon."
"I calkerlate as this here business musn't be interrupted,",added Meltiah.
"We've come arter these gals," resumed Lawless, in a swaggering tone.
"You can't have them," rejoined Harper, firmly.
"Seein' there's six to one, I'm decided that we can," said Mess.
Here are sir barrels,.not mentioning my double rifle and Honest," returned
Maurice, unmoved.
"I've a notion that we've got more nor six barrels amongusand it's my pri-
vate opinion expressed in this here public. manner, that we shan't stand and be
shot one after tother in the. way you talk of," continued Meltiah.
" Close upround the fermernines, my lads I" cried Lawless,
" Keep as near me as you can," said Harper, to the affrighted girls.
When Maurice had given this direction he fired one barrel of his revolver out
of the. window. Taking advantage of this movement, Meltiah extinguished the
light, leaving the room in total darkness. With a quick perception of his dan-
ger, Maurice instantly changed his position, thereby avoiding a crushing blow
aimed at him by Lawless with the breech of his- carbine.
It was now difficult to discover friend from fde, but knowing the exact position
of the maidens, two of the fellows had sprang towards them and were now stri-
ving to drag them to- the door. Maurice sezied one of ruffians by the collar, and
struck him upon the head with his revolver, a blow that caused him to drop to
the floor like a dead man.
Honest, meantime, perceiving that violent hands were being laid upon Iris,
seized the other rogue and used him so roughly, that he began to think more of
saving his own life than carrying off the females.' Two;were now down and
Harper discharged his pistol at random, at, Moss and Lawless, who had hitherto
restrained their fire lest they should harm the girls, or alarm those who might be
in the vicinity, arid thus produce a'rescue.
In the midst of this excitement and confusion, Noel Noon burst ppen the door
and appeared among the combatants.. The door being open, sufficient light was
admitted to allow the respect ive actors ,in this scene to be visible. Both Law-
lessandMeltiah now thought it time to attend to their personal safety, and dcsk-
ed out of the window, followed by theircomradewho had been  rostrated by a
blow from Maurice's revolver, and wh had sufficientlyrecovered himself to
make good his escape. Only one of therbelligerent party remained, andhe could
not Io easily extricate himself from the difficulty in which he had become involv-

I


O- TM                        bF .: MAn 'OF uIE nANE.
ed, Honest having worried him unuiercifally, and'still CotinUing to ip ish= him
in  a  iida  thiaetthreteaiedt-finalettintion° of life.
The first thing to be attended'to, theref*0r a to'Olt' iff the "dg, mnasmnch
as it eied d nneo essarj and-cruel to:permit hi rto'*Irae his advantage lger.
After a little time, the man arose to his feet, panting, zeri'fied 'and toin.
"It's prettysure that you'reldad the worst of it," kai Noon ; K' but' those
folks as eages in iSdObbst pr'cticesmust expect that jice will o+ertake
'emonmetiipe or other. You look toe 'age' ingy,!as ioegh the best part of
your natur had been woried  t of youby this a trdridary animal."
Turning to Maurice, he'addd:
" Thee's been'an oncoinion 'freas here, and I lisould ,like to know what it's
all about ?"
" These young ladies oan tell 'you, pe-haps, better than I ; but the sum and
suaftnce a pe rs'to be, that the worthy gentlergei who have just left so preci-
pitately, were desirous to carry away our friends here. The latter being tnwil-
ling to coneht-to thia-be sidedaifripgesnt,I'presOfmedto interterein the prem-
isds ;the result is as you ee."
As Maurice reached the 'eldse'of thesenteIi-elitis'tattered apilecing cty, there
followed the report of"a eailuie, Maurice recoiled- a few'seps, s51 'Would have
fallen, had be-not been caught ind" ngjotted bythestrboggand steady rtns of
noel  oon.                                                    .'
"He is woiided he'is 'slin I" cried Iris, insaeihts'of genuine alar- 'and
anxiety.           .'        .
'Are-y=ouliits-alyou hurt-iare fott epd ?"  &amp;imedi oel.
Harper pressed his hand'to his dhst but could kMke no sawer.
"P bn't say it goes bard with' yo dt't sayyi-are killed 1 iounthined Noon
wit a   it on euxan  eesx e of  iiifeigned grief; "because' I' couldn't think of
your dyibg in his'underLand "*ay. When you get "ready to give up' your hold
of ai-thlcyesidedations, I wiat to see one' like you knock under in some glori-
ons battle'with the enemy, where you're pressed upon four to one. For heaven's
make, rally, aud don't.let our life be wasted, and 'the breath slip ut of you, it
aa egly br*awl like 'this."
Harpei- i-asped '1Sn  hand and smilledtifntly-
Ah l'that' des me' goad-itdioe  s al' aood. have never een'you l6okso
el'fie IIt thoiaere's'sen e'nnd lfe1 in  ou yet," resuied"thehauter.
"I'm struck-"
"o &amp;Mnt ay ga'on± struck I"
n     ti'ru,'tnotdanoSrd ly Wofmded.'
"'Goddbe praised that'it aint ngnobise i'added the forester.
"i')2 erbadfi eok" u  untied "Masifibe, ith l'ss 'eertion, "tpbu  b o f
)**perfet'W  i nthiett' ohk tofhiauitngifrock,'justhere, and g aeed off,
rddaaiigt 6i'Iy b-l4 lt'a i6lo  of il e in."
stert    r h6ioghtit "hs,"maid4e d oodman,'fer ently.
Iris, who' bad been regtkdibg te landsbme adventurer in painful sensee

-

THE MAID OF TIE RANCE.
and with pallid cheek, now sank insensible into the arms of her sister, whose etno-
tions were but little less marked than her own.
During the excitemen- of the incident, the:fellow, whom Honestixad. dealt
with, abruptly took his leave, aI as iis coniueror had= no orders to detaintim '
he was sifei-ed ti depart nnmolestedar-
At this interesting crisis, Baptiste Lorringer-and.Dorville made their appear
ance. iAfew brief words from Noon explained'what had transpired  Maurice
now felt quite recovered from the shock,'aid while"9thers-were offering their. at-
tentions to'theunconscious'Iris, glided unnoticedfrom the house, fullof thought,
and agitated by conjetires in relation to what had happened, sought the encamp-
ment, Honest walking leisurely and contentedly by his side.
He had not staid to receive thanks or congratulations, because, under present
circumstances, he was not ambitious to be thus noticed.- He : could not forget
the unjust insinuations of Miss Ratliburn,.in regard to the motives that bad in-
duced him to be nea- the Ranlse. ' He was not angry but sorrowful, for, he felt
that his conduct had teen entirely misconstrued. He did not attach any blame
to the maiden, for it appeared to himthat "the was laboring at the time under
misapprehensions, of sorne kind, in relation to him.
When Iris had regained her consciousness, she was the firstto remark-the ab
sence of the brave Virginian,.
"He never stays after work's done, I take it," said Noel Noon, inreply to her
inquiring looks.
"What, gone 1" asked Ramona.
"It rayther has that appearance, now," Noel replied.
"Gone, and we 'hae not expressed our gratitude l"exclaimed Miss Rathburn.
"I'll say to him whatever you thinkis right, be it more or less, common or
uncommon, ordinary or extr'ordinary," added the forester.
" Perhaps she prefers to deliver her own "messages," suggested Lorrimer
"I wonder who could have been at the bottom  of' this transaction ?" said
Dorville.
Neither Lorrimer nor Noel made any answer to this interrogatory. f' Come,
men, give your opinion," added'Dorville.
Opinions are like the truth ; not to be spoken at all times," answered Lor-
rimer.
"I'm not, afraid to speak mine, generally," rejoined Dorville.
"Nobodylaid anything about being afraid, Mr. Dorville," replied Lorrimer
drily.
"It seems'to amount to that. When people refuse to speak out frankly and
boldly, in a case like this, the idea always oedurs to me that they are afraid to ;
but perhaps I am wrong," rejoined Dorville.
-" I splose Lorrimer is thinking of expedieney," said Noon.
dd1you are.in the same train of thought,'ioubtless. Well, I see which
way the wind blows, and will not At this time boast myown 1supefior courage,
yet it is evident ' to me that a gross pines, 'of"knavery has' been attempted, and
that Meltiah Moss and Jack Lawless are not at the bottom of it."


58                  .TaE MAID OF TH- IS   ANCHIE.
Bamona and Iris looked atseach other'inquiringly, as if to read each-other's
thoughts, and ask what might be the nature of theirlfriends' reflections.  .
"I think," continued.Dorville, fixing his eyes ;earnestly upon Iris, " that this
matterought to be inquired into. - That there has, in this' case, been ;an unlaw-
ful attempt to abduct these young women, cannot be doubted., If there hasbeen
such a design, there must necessarily havebeen a designer; and it is: thetlatter
that we ought to seek out, unmask and punish., If no other person feels disposed
to this duty, I shall takedit upon myself."
" Your ideas are similar to my own. I shan't by no means allow you to be
the only one to do this business. I shall .on all properioccasions, be tryin' to
ferret out the mystery. That Mr. Rathburn sent them ruffians here to conduct
his daughters to a place of safety is highly improbable, and sunthin' like settin'
a wolf to catch a lamb," said Noon.
" Herb cornea Rathburn ; let him speak for himself," said Lorrimer.
Rathburp entered the house, apparently somewhat excited.
"I have just learned," he said, "from the:,Virginian,,that there has been vil-
lany attempted here. How is it ? Are you uninjured, girls ?"
"Yes ; thanks to Mr. Harper and Mr. Noon," replied Ramona.
"We were pretty sartain that you hadn't given any orders to have the gals
removed," said Lorrimer.
" Of course not," added'Dorville, fixing- his penetrating eyes upon Rathburn.
"Being so near, what need had I to send when I could come myself, and the.
danger being comparatively little ?" he answered. -
"What more natural than that a father should desire to be with his children
when danger.menaces,?  No honest man-nobody but a mercenary hireling
would.entrust even his dog to the care of such worthless knaves as have this
night invaded his dwelling," Continued Dorville, still looking at Rathburn.
The latter slightly changed color and turned to Noon with the inquiry, " If
6e knew any.of the parties?"
"They had all fled.but one when I reached the room, and I can't say that I
know much about him," rejoined Noel,
" We owe our safety to the brave youngaman;".remarked Iris. -
"I must.speak to hin on the subject," said Rathburn, now considerably embar
rassed.
"If Mr. Rathbur, had:not been kept away by business of vital importance
he would 'unquestionably have been here to defend these fair creatures from out-
rage and peril," resumed Dorville, in the same measured tone, and with the same
fixed gaze at Rathburn.
" You are right, sir-my heart is alwayswith my dear girls," returned Rath.
burn, in a more earnest voice. .
"We shall march down the Brazosato-morrow or the day after, and I've been
thinking thatUthis willlbe:vather an geposed situation for you," said the captain.
" It might be unsafe here for most settlers, but with me the case is rather dif.
rentt" rejoinedRathbiurn. "You see I've got quite a number of friends among

THE MAID OF THE R NcH. ~                     Of
the Moderators and Regulators that wont forget;me, but 'l be on hand if dan-
ger lurks about the Ranche."
"Wont that be rayther an onsartain dependence?' asked Noel, quickly.
"No; far from it. ' I've lived herenow going on four years, and have never had
any trouble to speak of."
"But there's,'never been a war with Mexico before," remarked the captain.
-   , J "I know it, but there wont many of the enemy getup so far as'my'Ranche. It's
an out of the way place, you see. What do the Mexicans want up here ?"
"You night have asked 'em that question a few hours ago when We was fight-
in''em out yopfder, not a.mile from here,"
",But, they are so thoroughly whipped, they wont come again. I'll remain where
I am. What else can I do ?"
"'You might go with us to some of the larger towns, where there is but little
danger of the approach of an enemy."
"It wont do-there's as much-chance of safety here as anywhere. Tetas;will
be trodden under foot by the troops of Santa Anna, before a year goes over our
heads,,and the most obscure places will be safer from plunder and violence. A
few of us can defend this spot against almost any number of Mexicans. You
see they are afraid of the American rifles."
" Well, turn it over in your mind, friend Rathburn, between now and to-mor'
row noon, and if you conclude to go with us, depend on't, not a hair of the gals'
heads shall be harmed, though we should meet the Dictator'himself, at thihead
of an army."
"It's a kind offer, father," observed Iris.
"Yes ; I'll reflect upon it, Captain Lorrimer."
"You'd better. But it's getting late, and' I must return to camp. We'll' all
remain, however, if you think it best."
" We shall-not probably be disturbed again to-night. So you can go, gentle
men, with clean consciences," replied 'Rathburn.
As they were preparing to depart,.Iris stole to the'side of Noon, anid asked
the name of the young man who was so good as to keep guard with him, and
where he was that he did not appear when the disturbance occurred.
" Who said there was a young man with me ?"
" Mr. Harper informed me, but could not recallihis name," added Iris.
".He said that, did he? Well, Maurice Harper was the young man, and no-
body else, and you see his native modesty wouldn't let him tell you," returned
Noon.
" Iow stupid and unjust I" she exclaimed, blushing with regret; at the remem-
brance of what she had said to him.
"Mr. Nocl,'' she hastily added, in a low voice, "I've wronged your friend."
" Sorry for it, Miss Iris! He's under the cloud, as t'were, now, buts you 'e
he wont allers be there, I expect. He's got enemies that mean td crushrhii; but
I for one shall stand by him, notwithstanding all that 'malice and envy can do to
blight his prospects."

xi
;'
, r
x .
r
.'  '
7y t  j'
M1r
ii
4 #
1
s4
{
, /
.
,
r
t


e1                    Ta            " or                r       _
Wwm t Lorrimer .ndon had lek the de2il6,lioitlle lingered on the threh-
old. jris.and Rsnona were near him. lie tQo the hand' of the f6rmerin his.
"I secely know"h         n saidn as  pesse 'tone, "W t impulse  d a*#ie
towards you, saa jel icopfemmisea f deepy;iterestedi your welfare. Pardon
ac fpr tins freoomo f speech, for my words proceed from the heart, and not the
hear. I wish you to fen not to fear me-t9 dcohfide in me-to speak toie as
q ,isiterested: ric4,. Please step into the -co)alnWithe'a'moinenf-jist out
of earshot-thank yon. Now no one canhehr me. Does this air chill yduP"
" You tremble?"
"Not with cold."
""Fear ?"
"No, wbysoldI fear ?"
"Tou should not when with-but no matter; what I was going to say might
sound like self-adulation, so it remains unspoken. See the moon; Iris. In It not
beutiil-so placid, so silvery,,and yet so cold.. For me, the moon and stars
Wme voices that speak to the inner life."
1fj en hade such.ileas as4 emotions, but I do not utter them, save to Ramo.
na. I suppose they are too wild and vagrant to be felt by others.  I fear I am
inclined to. be a visionary.- Father says I am not so practical as Ramona: butl
can be practical."
"Th're are strikingoints of agreement between us.. I can be enthusiastic
and dreamy, and I can also be a strict utilitarian. But. I digress. You some-
bow unlock my finer sensibilities, and make me wander on at random.. You
seem to be strangely circumstanced and surrounded. You are like a desirable
vpwer growing wild in tle gardenof nature, while many rude hands arestretched
foth to pleck it. You are tree lipg-be quiet.'h
"I'll be very quiet."f
"Ramona is less sensitive, but very charming, As I was saying, you are sing-
ularly placed, and'strange elements. are in motion, around you.  Tou must be
watebfal. Keep all your perceptions about you, and strive to penetrate the mo-
tives:of all who approach you. Learn, if you can, to discriminate a worthy from
an unworthy man. Your father is unlike you in all respects ; I percieve that"no
iesponsive'sympathies are lodged in his breast. You and he are and must remain
strangers. Forgive me- But it is true; you know it-the tremor that shakes
yonePous systemattest t9 my words. Iris and Mr. Rathburn can never be
'Besilent, I beg of you ".
'Ii see IFa rightreyosfear him?
" Desist, for friendship's sake!"

0

r

ONSET OF THE CAMANCUE,

iou tremble lest he should hear a word. .lisnature isa suspicious."
-Yes-but don'tspeak of it;.it would be so unpleasant for me, if he should
hear you.'-
o, the winds shall ndt hear it. Will yoa watch everybody around you ?
Prondse the stranger, Dorville, that on will ?,
Awil."
S)o not su'er yourself to be inveigled into an'alliance tst yor -heart has
no interest in. "Do not associate with those who naturally repulse yo. Mistrust
nose most who appear the most selfish.  There are men around you who will
fail to make yoa happy, and who:seekto attain only their ,awn seds."
wii vou not mention name t'.

'    .E M LAn . o~'  HE ;1  CB


62

TfHE MAID OF THE inches '

It will hardly be prudent ; and yet why should I not?  I will speak the
name of Manuel Hart."
"i Dogoyet-,intt°him ?"6
"More than that  We cannot walk together in the same path in life. If he
is not a bad man, my owninstincts are false, and 0il my observations mislead me-
Fear him as yo  would the filthy, slimy, poisonous moccasin snake that low and
hidden but'strike and-destroy"
"You use stronglanguage."
"And does notyour own heart give back a response ?"
Dnot question de     I do not know mysef-I distrust myself-I fear all
*ho approach     '
" Not all=thereis cue whom you do not fear.",
"You meangrtrsef?'
"No; e"aougge' man. But no matter ; you need not redden so much-I
have not gekennsa me."
" Are youanotvery presuming, Mr. Doryille ?"
" I think, I am, iuthis case ; and yet I feel that L would not be impertinent,
for the world. the fact is, I almost loveryou"
" Will yoube reasonable, Mr. Dorville?"
"Time is passing. I aur wasting these precious moments in idle talk  Let
me be serious  Many perils are lurking unseen and unsuspected about you
Again permit me to say, be observant-observant of those whom you ought to
trust. Ishalisee'-you again-I can ,not stay away from you, for I experience an'
indefinable satisfactiisi, being near you. You perceive that I-am much older
than you-.too oldta be a lover."S
" I will endeavor-to, llow your injunctions,however mysterious they seem. I
will watch all.-even$o u."
" Do so ; tlat wvill please me ; and you may call my motives in question, if
you will. You may go farther ; accuse me to my face, of what you like, and I
will try to take it patiently."
" What a paradoxical character! You quite confuse and bewilder me. Here
comes Ramona ; speak to her," added Iris.
"Ramona, I have been talking to your sister concerning subjects of deep int-
erest. I have been'prognosticating evil, and hopeI shall prove a false prophet
Certain facts have fallen under my observation that make me sure that you are
both exposed to great danger, Iris -in particular. You are are a girl of courage
decision and foresight. " Be on your guard, and do not suffer your sister to fall in-
to the snares that may be laid for her feet, but make a faithful attempt to save
her and yourself."-
" But who are 'you, that take so much interest in two maidens, almost strangers
!o you ?" asked;Ramona.
"I am Dorvills."
" Ad i that all you can say toentitle you to our confidence?"
"All, young lady-all, at present. Judge me as you find me. When oppor.

9

II

THE- MAID OF THE .RANCHE.s                    83
tiinity offers, weigh me by my works, and not by my words ; the latter are so
elmsy.
ccp.
"Very good. I will not be over-suspicious. Say on, if more remains to be
said."
"Iris can tell you what I have said when I am gone. I hear your father's
step-Dorville goes-adios, adios?"
When Dorville reached the encampment, the fires were burning dimly, and the
wing of'sleep hung silently over the scene. A little removed from the spot two
or three sentinels kept sleepless watch. Instead of; entering one of the huts, Dor-
ville wrapped his blanket about him and laid down upon the earth as content-
edly as one might seek his dreams in a bed anduander a sheltering roof. He'was
sinking into a quiet slumber, when he was disturbed by the-footsteps of some one
more restless than himself. Opening his eyes he beheld'Maurice walking slowly
past him.
"Is that you, Mr. Harper ?  Can you not reconcile your conscience to sleep ?"
said Dorville.
" I have few antagonisms of that nature to reconcile," returned Maurice.
" Then why not go to rest ?  The night is fast waning ; the small hours have
come."
" Well, let them come and go ; I care not."
" Come, don't be disheartened. There's a tide in human  affairs, you know ?
You can find a couch sufficiently soft in some of the camps, I dare say."
"Sufficiently soft ? this soil is soft enough for me."
Harper, stretched himself upon the ground, and placing his rifle carefully by
his side, indicated plainly that he thought of 'going to sleep.  Honest followed
his master's example with an equal manifestation of indifference.
"I shouldn't care about sleeping with no blanket between me and the soil,"
observed Dorville.
"1I like mother earth ; she strengthens me. I recieve quiet dreams and refresh-
ing sleep from her bosom. Don't disparage her."
"Heaven forbid that I should speak lightly of mother earth, or any part of na-
ture. I have too long been the subject of her ministrations to be ungrateful and
captious."
" Who goes yonder, I wonder ?" asked Harper.
"t is one who treads softly as if he did not wish to attract attention."
" Yes ; so I perceive.'
" It is Manuel Hart, I think, Mr. Harper."
"You are right, Dorville. Where has -e been, do you imagine ?"
"I don't always tell what I imagine ; so good night."
Harper closed his eyes and soon appeared to be sleeping ; but partly unel*sing
them awhile after, he saw Dorville with his'head turned a little,.looking at'hini.
Harper'there upon began to ask himself what kind! of an opinion he-had form-
ed of this stranger, and what influence, if any, he would'exercise upon his destiny
-whether for good 'or for evil. Of course he had no means of deciding this
question, and he tried to dismiss it altogether as idle and even;whimsical.

0

/V


64                  Ts MD or fTHE    R A;cau,
When atjpngth sleep overpoweredlip, he was thinking of Iris Rathburningd
regretting Ihat she had misunderstood him. Her idea followed him intolgis
dreams,aud lent thm varied hues. He ,fapoigidheg in danger, apd surroupded
by evil influences. He pictured her in distress, and in the power of designing
persons, until the beating of the reveille putan end-to hislumbers,
CHAPTER XL
HE-BATTLE ON THE HORSE joGP.
THEHupters of the Border had movgd down the Brazos and were near San
Astonio. They had joined a small detacmatent under Coloinel .Bo ie, and were
soon watching the move ents of the enemy who were hovering abo t exar like
birds of prey ready to pounceupon any party of Texans less formidable, nuneri-
cally, thpn themselves. The hunters had found an excellent camping ground in
a bend of the river, distinguished, on account of its peculiar shape, as the ",Iorse
Shoe."
Colonel Bowie surveyed the spot with delight.
"What a fine place for a battle !" he exclaimed, turning to Captain Lorrimer.
I was jest havin' such notions-pass through my heady" he replied.-
'Therprairierising roundthe bottom land liky a high wall, would form a capi-
tal breast-work for the men, and we could whip the blanketed fellers four to one
without putting ourselves out a great deal, either. I wish there was somechance
of their coming down upon us."
" There's no doubt but they will, for they outnumHber u six to one," observed
Harper.
"How do you know. ?" asked the colonel.,
" By the best kind of evidence, I take it-actual sight," said Noel Noon.
"Explain," added Bowie.
"Why, it is simply this ; Mr. Harper and I have been out scoutin' about a
little, watchin' the movement qf, things. Bexar is literally swarrsin' with ene-
mies.".
" I'm glad to hear il for I feel anxious for some lind of a scrimmage."
"I'll tell you how I think you can bring 'em ; jest build up one or tw4 large
fires hereabouts, and they'll be likely t9 attract attention. Some of the women
folks will come right down to trade with us, count us, and then carry back the
news to the men, who don't relish ;a fight;with equal numbers, but are alwayson
band when the advantage is on their sid ".
" His advice is good, Captain Lorrimer.--erdet eme fies; tae built.".
'Mantel Har; who had been near the part, aud heard this donversati)n, ow
stepped forward and:said:
S I don't think itll be sdfe, Colonel, to temuptthe epemy upop us in that ay,
seeint 'as they are sim to one."
" If they were tento one, I shouldn't fear 'ep , in a place lice this," returned
Bowie.

I

Tiu rMAID   F IIE $   Nelu.
t'Ley'aift such feebleightr an they migit be,if I'te-any knowledge ethe
sid   ,"dc ed Hat.
h' eet'erivhe field, sirt- Fve 'o g t erh  changad%6ws-Wth    -
know what they can do, and don't fear 'em. Let 'em come."
"There' W1t be ii of s lft,46odel--._We hal be eat of t a rsn."
"o ,e'it,"Thet, so be it! .tfIoir ,ne ex setTo diefightig;,anfd tsisppose'it
whit mnast a:teat d'eencetaihie w1e. I go, if I only g6-as Wbrave rn, re-
disting opreson  nd doing mybest."
"You may want,-to go under in that way, but perhaps the test oft us'=would
atherlive°a spell Inager," cotinired Hai-t.
4Light the res, Optain Loxrriirner,liglht the fires, and rake- a beacon to in-
vite the rscalsd6lui'here," eafd  bwie/decidedly.
Harper smiled contemptuously,and Lorrimer went to giethe aioesary c*1ers.
bhese Meiens never giverioqua'ter,* said Noon, in a voice sumeiently
loud for Manuel to sear.
"hat's pretty well ikno*n, I e*pect,"retorted Hart sullenly.
We shall be likely to dosome damage antong 'n, at any rate, aftre we go
under, perwi win   teonmes to wVost," added Noon, looking slily'at Ia'per.
Hart made un6 rejoinder, but walked to-his tent, looking sc6*ling and disatis-
fled.
eeohsolie's'af dof aibpowder," laid NdeL.
"I've long had that opinion of him," replied Harper. "I'meager forthe time
to come when his courage can be put io thebtest."
t  i'lkeep out=o fe a  onson: g as he an help-it, hut the chaiees Are
thateail1lhave workt4doaifdre inornin'."
wo   :Large fireswere made,'and-as'had beers atifipated, after sde lapse of
time, sone Mexican women camne into=c amp, brgingv vrionu articles of traffic.
Raving disposed-of their goods, and noted everything that they saw, they went
back to report, as the sequel proved.
Captain Lorrimer immediatelyparaded his *men, ahd in his rough way exhrted
eni to priaece and courage. He told them it was incumbent updn her to
earn the name which had been given them by the t o maidens. He wanted the
Miiters aft the Border to win an-enduing -fasme, andve er to turn "'their backs
to te 'foe. fhey were'battlig for liberty endin an rights,atd ndt for plunder.
1hey'were not land-pirates, ;but soldiers, and ought foit to- forget it. They ere
going forth to give tyranny a check, and to Etay the progress of a bsitless ruler.
*hO e W ho°er.idift -e56lved to Eght totrelast, =hade tter stepctu of their tanks
SAigo hme ; the a4ids 't ant et A'dw td go vith them,itd s ho their'baek to
1h    . foe:
All this and much more Lorrimer said to  hem, in I tneggeost nattial to
him. Lieutenant Hart was in his place, bt did thet venture tO dke We ech,
ad i oounbtee'di d' 619t=6kOa      at degre of 'etisfaction.- Bt'the
men were evidently eager for a fight, and were disc piiteda when'tdie -uitset
in and the enemy did not appear. *The e' eWe 1passedlittout disttrbade.

.
{
'i
:
p


61          Tn M4ID .-F rTHE R&amp;NcHsp

At about ten o'c1qck a half-breed came into camp,;bringing- the report-that
the Mexicans had gone to attack General Burleson, who was encamped higher
up the river. Thisiewswasdoubted byfthe-more knowing onesbut credited by
the less experienced.'
Bowie and Lorrimer allowed the men to lie down and sleep as usual.
"'We'll warn you in time to make a defence, if the enemy should attempt a
surprise," said the colonel. " I've seen some service, you know, andunderstand
just about-what these'fellers mean. They're sly and need watching, but let 'em
eatch me napping,.if4they can."
Before eleven, the Hunters of the Border and Bowie's detachment were locked
in the arms of sleep.' NQ etraordinixry vigilance about thp precincts of' the
Horse Shoe indicated that any danger was apprehended, or that there was ,an
enemy within a dozen miles.
"This might look to some persons, like a want of discipline," Harper obser-
ved to Noon ; but I presume the colonel knows what he is about ?"
"You may depend on't be does. He'll scent the enemy if they come within
rifle range, I'll warrant," said Noel.
"ILook I there comes Dorville. Strange that he should follow us,"
"He's-a queer genius--allers on hand when you don't expect him."
"Is he a brave man, think you?"
"That's what I can't say for certain ; but he doesn't appeal' likea person eas-
fly frightened."
The subject of this conversation approached.
"Good evening;,lads--a fine camping ground is this-excellent spot for a neal
little fight.. Placing ourselves behind this wall that the prairie has built round
the bottom land, we can keep back any number'of the enemy," he remarked.
"We have had the same thoughts," returned Noon.
" Ah, here's Honest ! Mr. Harper what will you do with him, if there should
be an engagement ?"
"He'll-do very well ; he'll take care of himselff"
"Whst is that upon his neck ?  Something that has a feminine look, certain.
ly. Come here, Honest,.and let-me ,see,"'
Honest looked:at hismaster's countenance and then walked up to Dorville.
While the latter simply looked at the ribbon without touching it, the dog remain-
ed passive and amicable, but the moment he placed his hand upon it, a growl. of
displeasuw warned him to desist.
"It is the gift of a fair damsel, no doubt, and he is in honor bound to keep it.
here are theletters I. R..upon it. Presuniptuous dog ! Shall be jealous; you
wear the colors of my own enchantress. .What do you suppose Manuel Hart
would give for that flimsy gaud?"t
"His lieutenantcy,",replied Noon."
"It tis possible that he could procure a similar mark of favor withoutany such
sacrifice," Harper remarked.
" That's very doubtful l" exclaimed Noon1

660

/f

Ti 'MAID OF TH5 RANCH                        61
"4Come, boys, lie down and get your rest," said Captain Lorrimer, who ap-
proached at that moment. Rayther expect there'll be somethin' to do afor mor-
nin', and you must be .fresh for askrimmage."
"Honest and I will pass the night here," rejoined Harper, spreading his blan-
ket upon the soft, grassy bottom-laid.
" And I shall keep you company;"-said, Noon.
The place our two friends had selected was on the right of the bend, and-about
an hundred yards from the main body. of the detachment,
Harper had just sunk ato sound sleep when he was awakened by Honest,
who had scented the approach of some ooe.- Maurice arose =to his elbow, and
saw, much to his surprise, Warpath approaching.  He motioned our hero to
be silent as he drew nigh.
"6Wake up, Open-hand," said the Lipan.
Harper touched Noon 'ightly, andihe sprang to 'his feet..
Open-hand, 'tis -he sileit. This way, follow-step softly-don't: wake
the big moccasin snake I"
Warpath leaped noiselessly from the bottom-land to the 'prairie,-and Harpe-
and Noon did the same. The Lipan crouched until his tall figure was almost
concealed by the grass, and his companions imitated his example. The red man.
did not assume an erect position, until they had left the Horse Shoe several
rods behind. He then approached 'the, river.  A  canoe was 'hidden'- in the
bushesnear, the water.' The Lipan launched it, Maurice and Noon 'stepped in
and then taking the paddle, Warpath propelled it dexterously across: the Sun
Antonio. On the shore it was dragged up and hidden 'as before. : ' .
The Indian took the direction of Bexar, and kept his' intentions to himself
with strict fidelity to native character.' He paused snot far from the, town, and
changed his mode of approach-going forward with much greater caution. Har-
per and Noon imitated all his movementsuntil at last he made a full stop, and
motioned them to cone and stand by his side. They obeyed his mute mandate,
. and the Lipan-pointed with his finger.
Following the direction of his hand, they perceived a large body of men hold-
ing their horses by the bridles, ready to mount at a moment's warning.
""Look to the right, white men," said the Lipan.
They turned their eyes as indicated and beheld several pieces of artillery. The
wheels of the carriages were covered with blankets, that they might roll softly,
and the horses were already attached.
"That means a surprise," said Harper.
" When the moon reaches'that point in the skies where you see the dark cloud
hovering like the bird of war. Their hearts are 'big wit courage, and their
great guns are full of thunder. Let the white men beready."
"They greatly exceed us in numbers." remarked Harper.
"Six to one," returned Warpath.
" That's none too many," added Noon.'-
"-Too many, if they find you sleeping," rejoined the Lipan, sarcastically.
"Very true," said Maurice.
" Have you looked enough ?" asked the chief.
Yes," rejoined Noon.
" Thena we'll go back," returned the Lipan.
Warpath conducted the two youig nn 'to the Horse Shoe, in the same way
that they came.                         _     .
"1Last night," said the chief, addressing Maurice, " I dreemed that I saw a
moccason snake crawling after you.as you walked through a cypress brake. His
mouth was open, and he wds all ready-to strike when I awoke. I laid awake
and thought of it a long time; and the Manito of dreams seemed to tell me it
meant evil to the young white hunter.

I

44
1
'1
14F
t"4
E i


as gBE Ilr:OF THE ,BANSE.
"I believe the Grea :Spirit sometimesspeaks to me in dreams and visions'of
the darknight,",saidMaaribe.
"The Great Spirit is always speaking to hisred-:eilden. :He spealts to.ima
in the day aS well asther night. Sonietimos;J eaabear hisevoice when the! wind
blows, and when the thunder shakes the clouds:: Sometimes. he nbmkes me it
prophet, so that I can tell the future.b the past. :I know that the, upper,
head has stung, and'tht he willttingagain."
"That is wise-the pasthisetl  key ofthrfatur"'!reimarked Maurice.
" Thea d$y men'be prophetsraeording tbtheir :kneileige of'the past. I havt
apoken'lnd bave nosmore '4o y,  Yo een# tell thechie what you .have seen.'
With these wordsrWarpath'st etched himself pan.the ground to await .fur
ther developements of the night, while Maurice sought Bwie-and Lorrimer to
communicate what he had seen.
Neither of the parties appeared nehsurprisedidr  the bad anticipatede
movenientrof that-kindpand were  atehi gwitltepen eye to detect-anyndica-
tions of an attack.
"They will ross-the river just abova us,'andthe atthokbwill do ibtless come
fromth t vairie"PLntrie irtnakled.t
"Yes,tht's the,'quater from u bwlieh'weis tyexpectthe misehief,'"said
Bowie,".                                                  .
The night.Woreeongslowly enough accordingtto-our hero's ideas; but.as'! he
coillddo'inothi g tofacilitateTAhe umtter,'the' remained at rest as patiently a
possible listening$ntently to bear thet'read of theladthcng the.
It wanted about ad hour toethe break of day,'when .Maurice.noticed -that
Honest, with-earserecttifaslooking eagerly;up the -river.
" Listen, clonelt"Vmid M uwice_ Bowie put his eale5se to:thegrotuid-
"What'do yoti hear?" MaUt ed inquired.    t
" A4dullintonotdnone onmud. -The are erossing'the 'river. I hear, the dis
eordat'creakofzat*beek Now it ilstupped ; ',weasantbearit again, Now,
captain, we must wake up the boys. Go round aming;them '-softly, :ladsand .
lets have nonOise.'- Jute whisper to ei that there'saprospectoff a skrinnage,
and they'll be:on'itheir'-tapein no tiee."
Accordingly the men were aroused frota 'their'slumtbers and fell quietly into
the'ranks justtinderdov'er of th =w'all of-the prairie.
. They've made up their minds-for a surprised and there's nodoubt; but they'll
"have one," Bowie observed, as he contempktted with a satisfied air .thearreage-
ment of his forces.
Moments of intense suspence followed. :'"Athick'fog'whiehnow prevailed, dis-
conerted the plans of the enemy. ..They drew up orothe ghairie, and' waited 'for
the dark vapor to lift-TbeywereWithinreach of thh Texan riflseebutnotaman
could be seen, so dense was' the intervening fog. .The minutes seemed -terribly
long to the eager patriots.
The morning dawned at length, and as the think atmosphere grew -",eid, the
outline;offthe Mexican' colftns'-began tebe visible 'They were-all ready to
chargeiand annihilate the small band of 'Texans. .igh r and higher aroSe the
fog.-the horses and their riders were-rev'oalediand m'enmwith torches stoodiby the
threatening cannon.
The decisive moment had come.---emmentfraught with ,momeutonseonse'
quenees'to the aatorsin the'tdene. ,Er  y ?ifle-was"leveledIand Bowiegaithe
word to fire just as the trumpet gave the signal to charge.
The effect w::tremendous' 'Horges and rivers efit dowpand, dthe nolamns
ridledibaek frmheidde   tereddismayed.
"Bat Te*myWaanot yetbeaten. :he:knew thernukmbers-engaged diethe
Texan   de, an'teir wa get. advantagen that' respect. :.They forme&amp; and
came on again,determined to work the art iuorywith'rigor to -the lat. "hey

THE MAID oP TH DEANOrIE                   06
advanced and a body of picked men manned the guns, which in their precipitate
flight they bad not dragged out of range. They manifested much cotirage. but
before they had driven home a single ball, a discharge from Bowie's detachment
stretched them beside their companions whom the first fire had slain.
Again there was a terrible stampede to get out of the way, but many poor
fellows finished their earthly warfare on the spot. Some of the Texans wished
to follow up the advantage by pursuit, but th officers, more prudentansushed
permit them to do so.                                      ,      n
Various conjectures were now indulged in relation to another attack, but that
question was soon decided, for the enemy advanced once more for the purpose of
dragging off the cannon.
"«Now, my lads," cried Lorrimer, " prepare to serve them worse than before.
SeeI they are at work with the guns, and are really going to give us'a salute."
While the' captain was speaking, there came to their ears a roar of art 1I
and: grape shot and ball went whistling over their ieadsaer
"Pay 'em in different coin 1" exclaimed Bowie, and but too faithfully was he
obeyed; for all who are acquainted with the details of the battle of the Horse
Shoe, know how'awfully destructive was the fire poured i  aupon the enem; from
the Texan rifles. The guns were left without men to work them, and the aval-
ry fled in utter disorder. The Hunters of the Border 'could no longer bevre-
strained,"and dashed after the-fiying foe with an ardor not to be held in check.
During the engage ntent several watchful eyes were upon a  e
note his conduct. 'But little was seen of him by those most interested to wit.
ness his bearing, and it was pretty evident that he was safely ensconced behind
,a large tree during the battle. He'did'not join in sthe' eustoand' itb
served thathe had a 'handkerchief wrapped about his left arm after the skrim
mage was over. Upon being questioned, he said that he hail been struckkbya
spent ball.
Thus ended the battle of theliforse  0', Wich hld quits an ;td
en the ardor of the [exicans, and to encourage the zeal of the Texancs
*                                               h   eas

.x
!"     I

t) .i
r,

. t


THE MAID oF THE RANCHE.
CHAPTER XL
THE AMBUSOADI .

.Arma the battle the-detachments fell back upon General Burleson's position,
-       who was intending to make an attack upon Bexar,-which was now in posses-
sion of the Mexicans. to attack a town so well supplied with provisions, and
containing so many of the enemy, was an undertaking of considerable nagni-
tude, and likely to beattended with much bard fighting and _loss of life. Many
of the houses in the town Were fortified, and even ehoud the Texans effect an
entrance, they nmgbt' expect to receive -a-destructive fire from  the dwellings on
1,0th sides of the  streets.-
Several days were spent in consider the project,-and making arrangements
for the enterprise. During the tite the Hunters of the Border were often in
the saddle reconnoitering the adjacent country, and.skirmishing with parties of
Mexicans,',
while the subject of retaking Bexar was underconsideration, it must be re
marled that Manuel Hart,.on account of. his wounded arm, was seldom on du-
ty, and absent so frequently and so long, that :it was a: matter of observation
among the men. florville also continued to be as eccentric as ever, sometimes
disappearing for two days at a time, and then returning in a manner equallyas
abrupt ,and unanticipated.
One day 'after such an absence, he appeared and called Maurice aside wgh an
anxious expression and a troubled brow.
The news which he communicated was to our hero deeply interesting. He
iaformed him that he had visited the Ranche, thnt the Rathburns had gone, and
that he could gain no clue as to the place of their destination, or the. direction
of their flight..                   .,A
This intelligence affected him unpleasantly, for Iris Rathburn had seldom
been long absent from his thoughts, since the period of his first meeting with
her. He hastened to inform Noon of what he had heard, who shared largely in
his anxiety,-it being well known that he was much interested in Ramona. Both
of the young waen were just preparing to go out and reconnoitre the enemy,
when this news was received, and with thoughtful faces they mounted their hor-
ses and rode toward Bexar.°
The mind of each wa' busy with the intelligence which Dorville had brought,
anifor-a long time they went forward in silence. Noon was the first to speak
in, regard to the subject uppermost in their ,thoughts.
"I feel oncomfortable and disturbed about this business.  I can't see any
good reason for Rathburn's leaving the Ranche in this strange way."
Harper acknowledged that he had entertained similar sentiments in regard to
the matter. Noel then, in his own blunt manner, demanded to know what was
to be done, or if anything could or ought to be done in the premises.
"If," replied Maurice, " all parties were agreed to the project of leaving their
former place of residence, I cannot see that anything remains to be done; but
if, on the contrary, there has been any compulsion or unfair dealing, that puts a
new aspect upon the case. Do you suspect that anything wrong or compulsory
has been going on ? If so, be frank."

NE MAID OF THE RAITCHE.                      'I
" I've called you my friend," returned Noon, " and I'll-be -free with yoit. You
know, perhaps, that I think a great deal of Ramona; and used to visit the
Railehe often. Well, I've seen enough first and last to make me suspect more
than I feel disposed to mention. It's my opinion- the gals have been unjustly
dealt with. I hate to say it, but it appears to me that MaineL Hart has more
influe ce over Mr. Rathburn than he ought to have, and that the latter fears
him, or isn't over and above honest himself.. The fact is," added Noel, emphat-
ically, " there's bad influences at work there, and Rathburn needs to be watch-
ed as close as Hart."
"1My ofn thoughts precisely. I am glad you have spoken so freely," said
Maurice.
" It's time to speak and to act, too. No doubt but the young women are in
trouble afore this time, and need somebody to look arter them andspeak a kind
word.".e                                                        a
"I am at your -service, Noel. You shall have my hearty co-operation in
whatever you'may propose," responded Maurice, with earnestness,
"I thank you," said the forester, warnly, " I thought you'd be willin' to lend
a helping' hnnd, especially when such a female as Iris- mayneed assistance."
By this time the"hunters had reached, a musquit growth not far from Bexar.
Dismounting, they fastened their horses in the thicket and proceeded towards
the town on foot, leaving Honest with the animals.
As they walked cautiously on, they conversed more freelythan they had ever
done before in relation to the two maidens and Manuel Hart. Noon did not
hesitate to pronounce the latter a villain of the darkest character, although on
that particular ,point he had hithertq' been quite .reserved. While talking in
this amicable and confidential manner, hey reached. a spot in the vicinage of
Slear where there was a light growth of post oakand ash. Here they paused.
a moment to arrange their plan of operation more perfectly.
They were conversing in suppressed voices, when certain sounds on their left
made them aware that other parties were advancing. They immediately secret ,
inasmuch as it transforms brethren of the same great family of man into deadly
enemies..
The intruders approached and proved to be two men, As the distance de-
creased between them, it was plain that one was a Mexican officer, and the oth--
er an American. They stopped within pistol shot and conversed earnestly.
Though the features of neither were revealed perfectly at fist, the voice of one
was sufficiently distinct to betray him to the listeners; both being assured that
Manuel Hart was near them.
With eagerness quite natural to the peculiar occasion, they awaited the de-
noument of the singular interview. - All-that they said could not be heard and
understood, but enough to give them an insight into the villain's schemes.r ae
was.obviously tampering with the enemy, who was holding out to him a golden
bait., His own treacherous disposition needed but aii inconsiderable incentive
to make him a traitor, He was, to be brief, laying a plan with the Meican
officer to betray his company and counttymen° into the hands of those- who knew
no mercy, and seldom gave quarter when victorious.
About half-way from Burleson's position -to-Bexarthere was a long strip of
timber, and a road traversing nearly its whole length. Into this wood the Hun-
ters of the Border -were to beidecoyed'throxgh the instrumentality of Lieutenant
Hart, where a large force of the enemy would belying in ambush, ready to greet-
them with two six pounders, rifles, carbines, etc.
With feelings of burning indignation, our two foresters listened to the details
"f this wicked and cruelpot. 
"There are-two persons;" added Hart, in an earnest voice, when. the other mat-'

I
o1 .
f
4
r{
kYI
Nii


72                 TRE MAID OF THE RANCHE
terms had been 'thoroughly discussed,,"who mustn't Suriive the surprise, andl'I
want that to be understood."              '
The Mexican offcer inquired how he should know them. In answer to this
query, the traitor described Harper and Noon minutely, not forgetting to men-
tion the color of their horses.
"I insist uponthis as condition of the agreement." To.an arrangement of
this kind, of coume, the Mexican had no sort of objection, and was so sanguine
of success, that he gave it as his opinion that not one of the company would es-
cape. He admonished the villain to concoct the scheme for decoying them into
the ambuscade with such ingenuity and certainty thatthere should be to fear of
a failure. He then went on to speak of the facilities offered them by the length
and density of the timber for secretingtheir forces, and pouring upon the advafic-
ing and unsuspecting band such a conceptrated and continuous fire as should
effectually cut them up and secure their utter defeat, if not their complete anni-
hilation.
The six pounders, loaded with chaintraces eat into pieces, were to be arran-
ged so as to sweep the road, .and decimate both horse and rider.
To avoid this general destruction, Hart was to invent some pretenee'for loiter-
ing;behind' or"remaining at camp. The Texans were to be led into this fatal
trap by a small-party of lancers who 'Were to approach Burleson's position by
the timber road,-and then as soon as they had attracted-attention and encouraged
pursuit, to retreat with all convenient haste toward the spot which was to be the
scene of the surprise.
This grand blow was to be struck without delay, and following day near dark
was designated'as the time-for-its execution. These necessary andindispensable
preliminaries having being duly arranged, the parties moved from the spot a few
yards, and the subject appearedto be changed. The lieutenant expressed him-..
self evidently quite freely and interestedly concerning a theme of a different na-
ture. Their words could not be distinctly and connectedly heard,.but both Har-
per and Noon Were certain that they heard Rathburn's name spoke several times.
As the endversation progressed, theymanner, tone and gesticulation of the par-
ties grew more earnest and impassioned,,and their voicee rising higher as they
proceeded, the names of the maidens of the Ranche were pronounced so energeti-
cally, the neither of our listeners could longer doubt the nature of the subject
now being canvassed. Many conjectures, coupled with startling conceptions and
and vague apprehensions concerning Iris and Ramona, disturbed the thoughts of
the foresters. Queries like these arose to be solved : Why were., the names of
the young women mentioned there, and under those circumstances,?  What
common tie of interest existed between Hart and the Mexican officer relative to
the maidens ?  Had the Mexican seen them?  If so, where, and when,'and
what were his intentions concerning them:?
The reader will bearing mind that it, was much more easy to.make mental in-
terrogatories of this kind, than to give ananswer.to. one of them: It was very
evident that the hititers had incontinently stuiibled upon a mystery which they
wishedimuch to unravel and understand; ,but to do so, was.not a task to be ac-
compilishedwithout diffieulty- Hairt would doubtless keep his own counsel, and
the only feasible way of tracking him in the winding way of his villany, was to
watch silently:and assiduously all his movements.
Important discoveries have indeed beau made 'une pected revelations having
a vita bearfng-upon the destinies of the Texa borderers, and also upon the:
ARathbhugirls. Y'".
Still conversing earnestly, Hart and his companion moved of arm in arm,
to all appearance the best of friends.  Without speaking, Harper and Noon
walked back to the spot- where they had left their horses.
"What do you think of this, Mr.Noon ?"?'asked Maurice; in a suppressed
tone, that he might better conceal the agitation of his own mind.

I

0

THE MAID OF 'THE RANCH!.

.13

"I1think, returned Noel, gazing quietly up in to the quiet skies, " I think
tat a good providence has directed Our footsteps this night."
Whtat we have just heard is deeply, suggestive of thought.  You recollect
the subject of our conversation when'we left the camp?  Now will noti the
strange conversation to which we have been a party, throw some light upon the
mysterious disappearance of the Rathburns ?" rejoined Harper.
"If it doesn't throw any particular light on that affair, it awakens many cn-
pleasant suspicions, I reckon. ; To tell you th' truth, friend 'Maurice, I feel
amazin' oncomfbrtable like., I th  k more of the fate 'of the gals, than I do
about the ambuscade and surprise that is intended' for us tomorrowt night ; be-
cause, you'see, we are 'forewarned- about the 'last, and if we can't outwit and
circumvent them, we'd ought to be .ut into inch pieces by them ere oncommon
swivels, loaded with mince trace:chains. If we don't make'that plot lose all its
romance like, for them critter, 'it will be' or the reason' that there's no "such
thing its Texan rifles and doubl4-sihts. That subject is all plain enough, and
don't require no great: amount, of ,agebra tactics and that sort of larnin' to work
it out ; hut about the Rathburns we'recornpletel nonplussed; and don't know
inothiui for sartain only that some specie of devil ry is on foot."
Discussing this absorbingly interesting topic, Tarper and Noon rode into
camp and hastened to communicate with CaptainI torrimer. The plan of the
ambuscade was'developed, but failed to produce those indications of astonish-
ment which they naturally expected to see-exhibited.
"I rayther thought 'twould, come to this," he said, musingly. "There was
allers a twinkle in the va'mint's eye that I couldn't exactly overlook.' 'I knew
he was a coward, and it don't take much to make a cowa'd a traitor. But he's
in a fair way to be fetched up with a sudden jerk. I'll see that he's properly
taken care of ; and so soon as we have outwitted' this idea of an ambuscade,
and punished the rascals for their presumption, Manuel Hart shall swing, if
there's halters enough in camp to hang him I I can get along with a mocason
snake, a savage, or any kind of a heathen cretur, but a black-hearted traitor 1"
Immediately there wa's a private consultation among tle officers, and orders
were at once issued to meet the emergencies of the coming day. Twe detach-
ments of riflemen were marched to the timber, to take a position inthe rear of
that determined on by the enemyon either side of the road, where they were to
lie perdu during the day. To the head of the timber toward Bexar, three field
pieces were dragged and stationed, ready for use. Besides these, and men to
work them, was a company of riflemen. Both horses and men found ample means
of concealment at a distance of some two hundred yards from the road,. in a cy-
press growth, between which and the town was a'dense, impenetrable chapparal.
To'keep the animals quiet, they were fed plentifully with corn and newly cut
grass. During these rapid movements and preparations, the return of Manuel
Hart to camp was impatiently awaited. The detachments had, marched before
he appeared. As he walked toward his tent, he was arrested by a corporal and
a file of men. The traitor's self possession well nigh forsook him. Taken wholly
by surprise, and conscious of his guilt, he was unprepared to make"any defence,
or to put so good a face upon the matter, had such a turn in affairs been antici-
.pated. He felt that in some inexplicable way his villany had been unmasked;
and he was aware, furthermore; that the punishment of traitors was prompt and
sunimary. ' The fear of death struck a mortal terror to his heart. Visions of a
drum-head court martial, a short trial, prompt sentence, and speedy execution
of the same, went' whirling through his brain,'making it'faint and dizzy. How
suddenwas the downfall of his expectations I how irremediable the ruin that
looked 'him in the face I The avenues of escape seemed closed up. No enliv-
ening hope gleamed in upon him to render the future less gloomy.
Such were his emotions when he first found himself a prisoner, with a strong

s

4¢
J
I'T


A4

THE MAID OF T   RANcHE.

guardpted over   em ant hand-cufas upon his wrists ; but those feelinggfd-
ually .gave place to others.J Perhaps, after all, his traitorous designs had not
been detected. Suspicion might have fastened upon him to soneextent, enoligk
towscr is rrst bt oths condemnation. It was possible .that 'theyr had
Swtsses to prove his guilt, and itwas difficult to criminate a suspected per-
Rallihu poof.htnd
Rallying somewhat and recovering a portion of his wonted confidence, he
questioned the"guarlrelative to the causes that led to his arrest ; but having
been strictly charged to hold no conversation with the prisoner, they made no
reply this ,iterrogatories, and so he was obliged to remain in total ignorance
,   guard to the precise nature of the charges to be made against him, and the
evidence that could be adduced. In this uncomfortable State of uncertainty, he
was obliged to remain, until it should suit the pleasure and convenience of those
who had caused his arrest, to explain matters in a formal way.
The day which was anticipated by the Texans as big with events, dawned
upon then bright and clear; but before noon the weather changed, and the
sky became overcast and cloudy. The hours crept on at a snail's pace to the
impatientsenses. of the Texams, and the approach of night was hailed with .plea-
sure by-the riflemen lying in wait, the company in the -chapparal, which with
slipped bridles, awaited the proper moment, and to the Hunters of the Border
at camp; who were ready to spring into their saddles at the first appearance of
the decoy party of Mexican lancers.
Harper andNoon were in the, foremost rank, quite fearless of the coming
contest, and the masked battery of the enemy.' Captain Lorrimer stood beside
a large grey horse, wearing not only the accustomed side arms of an officer, but
grasping in his right hand his Iong and deadly rifle, 1His usually quiet and
placid features were now stern ani threatening, and his whole frame stimulated
and nerved to deeds of patriotic daring. g      .a
The expression of Harper had also undergone a signal change. The ardor
and courage inspired in the youthful breast by the near prospect of justifiable
warfare, and honorable distinction won by undaunted bravery, imparted to his
bearing more dignity. pride and firmness, than he had yet exhibited.
The Hunters of the Border, in this case, had voluntarily taken the post of
danger. They were well aware that, if their plans did not operate precisely ac-
cording to preconcerted measures, and they were. drawn fully into the ambus-
cade, a destructive fire must sweep and decimate their ranks. But this was one
of the emergencies of war, from which a true soldier would not shrink.
Honest care and licked his master's hand, as if asking permission to attend
him;but patting him softly upon the head, Harper ordered him to remain be-
hind, and ,ip trotted off' towards the tents with a low whine of disappointment,
occasionally stopping to look back wistfully and-deprecatingly at the author of
this unwelcome 'mandate.
Dorville,dwhom Maurice had not seen since the previous -night, now dashed
up to his side, mounted upon a powerful black horse.
onTha'sloks like a sortie," he said, " and luckily I am in time to go withs
you.  What's on foot ?", .
Harper explained to him in a few words the cause of these demonstrations.
" Last night he evaded me, or I should have made this discovery myself.1
knew that te was tampering with the enemy; and had had several interviews
with a Mexican officers. I followed him as far as the timber, where I unfortu-
nately lost track  f him in the darkness ; but possibly I have made some dis-
coveries which will indemnify me, in some sort, for the failure. A strong party
of Moderators are'hovering-about the camp. What tho
S    vmore  y fully acudevelope"  teihkobjectis,remaion ctk
" Have you actually- seen them?" asked s'oil; Noon, quickly.

I

THE MAID OF THE RANvH

rrf

"Yes ; I was within sight of their camp-fires'last night ;  ar enough to in-
nale the odor of the venison which was cooking for their supper. I think I saw
Itathburn "among them."
" Rathburn !" exclaimed Noon, with a %tart.
"I fancied so, but I was not near enough to be wholly certain on that point ;
but providing I rm right in my suspicions, what think you does it augur ?"
Before Harpef or Noel had time to framC an answer to this question, a party
of Mexicans, with red streamers floating from the points of their lances, came
dashing towards them from the timber. They drew up, however, before they
came within rifle range, and turned their horses' heads for a scamper in the op-
osite direction.
Lorrimer gave the word to mount, and in an instant the entire company was
thundering after the decoy lancers. On rattled the latter, congratulatingAthem-
selves on the perfect success, thus far, of their stratagem,
They entered the timber at a gallop, purshef by the powerful' Texan horses,
whose weight and metal made the groundshake-to their tread.
Possibly as the Hunters of the Border'urged their fiery steeds towards the
teeth ,of the concealed foe, they might have confessed a quickened beating of
the heart, and-sensations of unpleasant expectation, but there was no place in
their determined souls for fear.
The lancers, with their waving pennons and gay colors, swept On through and
past the ambuscade,.and the Texars at full speed reached the spot that was in,
tended to be the last scene in the changing drama-of life.
While the heavy tramp of the borderers shook the-timber, a deafening rattle
of small arms saluted their ears, and'a terrible shower of lead went whistling
overand among them, emptying some saddles, and wounding many of those res-
olute inen. This discharge was instantly followed by the Texan war-cry on
either side, and the sharp, decisive and continuous crack of the Texan rifle.
Spurring on out of the dangerous vicinage, the stunning roar of cannon made
the woods give back deeper and mightier reverberations, and the lancers were
suddenly checked, thrown back and scattered as though a tremendous billow of
fire and flame had unexpectedly rolled up against and over helmed them.
The mounted riflemen had charged and taken the two *s-poundez, and turn-
ed their muzzles upon the decoy-party, literally cutting them in pieces. Horses
and riders fell together in a bleeding and mangled mass.
The dismayed and horror-stricken survivors sprang from their saddles, and
rushed into the timber for shelter, there; perhaps, to meet the unerring aim of
the Texan rangers. The timber was now full of the tumult and dissonance of
battle. The ambushed foemen, attacked furiously in the rear, were driven into
the road, and the Hunters of the Border, turning, charged upon them like a
thunderbolt, scattering them as the fierce winds scatter autumn leaves.
The other company of riflemen, at that crises now appeared in sight from the
Bexar side, with the field-pieces, ready to open upon them, ahou!d they attempt
to retreat to the town. But completely broken, disheartened and astounded,:they
threw down their arms and begged for quarter, which was cheerfullygivem.
If the men had not been tired with their day's vigil in the woods, they would
have advanced upon Bexar ; but it was considered best by lose in command to
defer the'attack, and the Texans marched back to camp, cal ryingquite a nuns
ber of prisoners, and in high spirits

I e
I.tj
iii] 2
;
iiS'
f4 3yy.
I' j  666gg
(41
I R


70Q

THE MAID OF THE RANCRE.

CHAPTER XIHI.
TH COURT *RIArL, VISIT TO THE RANCH.
THE treaehery of Manuel Hart produced considerable excitement-among Lorri-
ier's men. Some of them could scarcely believe that he had really intended to
seltthem t4 the enemy, and were somewhat !lisposed to entertain the idea that
Harper, disappointed by :ot being chosen to lead them, had, concocted some in-
genious scheme to ruinhis successful rival. %t such feelings and suspicon were
by no means prevalent or popular, the majority plainly seeing his guilt.
Upon thefollowing day a court-martial was called, consisting of General Bur-
leson, Colonel.Bowie, Captain Lorrimer and other officers.
Hartstrenuously deniedall.the -charges adduced against him,even when Noon
and Harper testified to what they had heard. But the evidence was overwhel-
ming; for the battle of the previous night, the disposition of the enemy, the ap-
pearance of the decoy party, and in fact, everything that transpired at the time,
confirmed the testimony of. Noon and Hprper.
Dorville deposed and said,:that he had followed him to the precincts of Bexar,
three nights ago, where he (J art) :had been met bya Mexican officer, and the
two entered, a house on the outskirts of the town, where they remained for a long
time. .e did not deem it prudent to go near enough to the house to listen, but
when they came out, he heard them make an appointment to-meet the next eve-
ning in the growth of, post oak,,where the other witnesses had testified to seeing
them.
Dorville a lsQ gave other evidence.of a circumstantial kind, which went against
the accused,  art asked for time that he might bring rebutting testimony. He
said that he could prgev an alibi, and only wanted to get word to certain persons
in whose compny head passed the first part of the night
No doubt as to his guilt remained, but the court, willing to show all the fair-
ness and clemency that was possible, gave him three days' grace, with the offer
of sending a trusty messenger to any place he night designate, to bring' in his
witness to prove an alibi.
This was a concession which Hart in reality did not expect, and he embraced
the conditions gladly, and a hope of escape wholly unknown tohis judges, sprang
up in his breast.
With a part.of the appalling load shaken from his mind, he was re-conducted
to his place of confinement.
Noe Noon, having obtainedpermission to do so, visited ths prisoner, to gain,
if possible, some information of him concerning the Rathburn family; but he
could get no satisfactory answers. He was more confirmed, however, in his
previ p opinion-thst Jart had some knowledge of their present residence ;
and he did not even attempt to deny that such. was the fact.  He refused to
hold any combmunication with him, in reference to the maidens, without a prom-
ise from Noel, that he would assist him to escape.
"1Providing," he said," that he (Noon) would exert himself strenuously to pro-
cure 13 liberation, he would impart to him all the information which he had re.
rating to the maidens."
*       But a promise of this kind the honest forester did not feel that he could hon
orably make ; consequently, the traitor's conditions were rejected.

1
'
*
,
,
;
,
i '!}
r
.a
", i,
$-

THE MAID oTHE RANCHE

'WARPrATH' AND HIS VICTIM.
Having failed to make any discoveries in that direction, Noon and Harper
resolved to visit the Ranche on the Brazos, and endeavor, by all feasible meth-
ods, to gain some clue to the sudden flitting of the Rathburns.
Their journey to that'locality it will not be necessaryto followstep by step ;
but suffice it to say, that they reached the spot near the close of the second day.
Everything:looked natural about the premises. There had been no change in
the externgl4sof the place. Some sheep and cattle were feeding, as was their
wont on the prairie on the east side of the coral' ;nd'it was evident that the
spot' had not been visited by enemies, for in that da6e, the flocks and Aerds
would have been driven off.
D mounting, they turned theirs horses loose, of which liberty the jaded animals
were glad to avail themselves. The gate of the corral was' fastened, but Noel
being acquainted with those natters, soon contrived to open it. The door of the

t
r"
i
5

9


789

THE MAID OF\ THE RANCH.

house was secured in a similar manner, but that difficulty was overcome as readi*
ly as the other. They entered, but all within was silent and gloomy. The cheer.
fulness of the place had departed. The graceful forms and pleasant voices of the
maidens were not there to make it home-like and agreeable.
Both the youngufen sat dowi with feelings of sadness. Noon looked doubly
disconsolate, and his eyes wandered restlessy about the room, as if he expected
to see the tidy figuie'of Ramona starting up from some obscure corner.
" I can't think of staying' here all night," he said,i despoudingly; "for it isn't
the place thabitiused to be, by no means. L.et's go to pur old campin' ground,
above here."'
To this proposition Maurice was very' willing to consent; for the dwelling ap-
peared so utterly deserted, that he.seriously doubted whether he could sleep theit.
While they were passing from the corral, something white upon the ground,
near the gate, attracted our hero's attention. He picked it up. It proved to
be a linen handkerchief, to which was.pinned a slip of paper, containing the fol.
lowing lines:
"wMy fthe has su  nly resolved to leave the Ranche, and will give no reason.
for this unanticipated determination. Manuel Hart has been seen in this vicinity,
within a few hours. I fear that father has been unduly influenced, and is in some
way inthe power of this man. 'This mysterious movement fills Ramona and my-
self with alarm. We tremble with fear, and yet we know not why. I would
write whither we are going, but do not know.Ims-"
"P. S., Since writing the above, I have seen a Mexican officer with my fath-
er. They crossed the Ranche together, unconscious that they were observed by
Ramona'or myself. Perhaps we are to be conveyed to some place in possession
of the Mexicans. Why I pen these lines I scarcely know ; and I do so without
any other than a vague idea that they may in some manner -be of use to us.
harper read this note aloud, and although it contained nothing definite in re-
gard to;the destination of the maidens, yet it seemed to revive the hopes of the
foresters. The' probability was now pretty strong that they had been taken to
some town where the Mexicans were in possession, and Bexar might be that
place.
The more Harper and Noon reflected upon the subject, the ,more they were
inclined to this opinion. Earnestly talking the matter over, they reached their
old camping ground, and-proceeded without delay to kindle a fire and cook some
venison which they had brought with them.
Having answered the demandswofappetite, they wrapped themselves in their
blankets and were soon lost in profound slumber, while Honest, as weary as they,
stretched himself beside them and slept as soundly,
The sun had mounted high in the heavens when the foresters awoke. Noon,
who had been suffering from a severe cold, had increased the difficulty by expo-
sure and the morning found him quite feverish ; so much so, that Harper recom-
mended him to remain quietwhile he went out in search of such' game as would
be best for him, under the circumstances.
He succeeded in procuring afew grouse.and was on the way back, when he
sawa figure walking among the .trees beyond him.  Curious 'to know who it
might be,,he hurried on in thpt direction, hoping to get a bitter view of the
erson wheeer ilt nigbt be. fait: the lguru was ,no longer in sight, and. think.
ig .he.w  entirely fied in.his intention, he abandoned the thought and seated
himsdlf .eside a cool spring to rest. He had sat there but a few minutes, when
the man appeared in full view advancing towards him, .evidently unconscious
thatisravements were observed.
,-arper recognized him at once as Meltiah Moss.
This way-this way, Meltiah i Inhave news for you," sa~d Maurice, ad-
dressing him, 11Your friend H'art is in trouble "

The latter stopped and surveyed our hero with an expression of genuine aston-
ishment, not unmixed with fear.
"1Sorry to hear it, stranger. What's the natur of the trouble ?" replied Mos,
when he bad recovered a measure of his self-possession.
Maurice told him what had happened, which intelligence did not seem to. af-
feet' him greatly.g
"I s'pose bygones is bygones, And you don't hold no hardness ?" said Moss,
"I shall not remember your evil designs to your injury, providing yon do not
give me-fresh occasion to complain, in which.event I will not be answerable for
what I may do."
Harper then proceeded to question Meltiah in regard to the flight of the
Rathburns, but could elicit nothing of any importance. Moss was entirely ig-
norant, or' feigned to be, of the whole matter; only knowing that they went
down the river very suddenly..y
"I've been thinkin'," said Moss, as Harper waD preparing to go, "that my
life hasn't been jest what it ought to have been. I have made up my mind to
reform:"y
"The experiment is worth trying.  You will' feel better for it, no doubt;
although, truth to tell, I have the smallest possible faith in'your promises," re-
joined Maurice.
" Just the state of things I expected,; but havin' been pretty sick lately from
a wound which you gave me at the Ranche, I have had time to reflect on my con-
duct, and see that it hasn't quite come up to what a humane critter onght to be.
I've been set on by others to injure you, and to balance the account, if the time
ever comes when I can lend you a helpin' hand, I'll do iti'c
" Perhaps it wont be best to discuss the matter much," replied Harper, with
an incredulous smile, " for youdoubtless remember that we have met several
times before, and not under circumstances to enhance my opinion of you. If
there is anyopening through which you can escape from the pollutions of your
past life, I certainlyhope that you may avail yourself of it; but if you don't
wish to make me mistrust that you design to waylay me before I get back to
camp, let the subject drop."
Harper gathered up his game and moved on. At -the distance of a hundred
yards,. he turned and looked hack. 'Moss was leaning on his rifle, gazing fixedly
after him.' Maurice wondered whit he might be thinking about at that particu-
lar moment, or what new piece of mischief he was maturing.
When our young soldier reached the camp, h oel declared that he felt better
a   after partaking of some of the "broth which Harper prepared for him, was
anxious to turn his face once more in the direction of Bexar. Accordingly the
horses were caught, and they left the Ranche, though not without sadness and
regret.
They had proceeded about ten miles, when Noon becameunable to go farther
They were in the heart of the forest, and not a human habitation was near. The
forester did not complain, but a glance at his flushed face was enough to convince
Maurice that he was very i 1$. What was now to be ddne? Promptaction was
certainly demanded. Seating Noel upon a log, Harper with the point of his
pocket knife opened a vein, and having taken as much blood as he considered ju-
dicious 'closed it up in aquick and masterly mauner. Telling him to  remain
where he was, our hero thenwent in search of a camp which he recollected to bave
seen in that vicinity some months before.
He was fortunate enough to find it, and Noon was conducted to it. It stood
close by the river, and hunters and settlers frequently made it a stopping place
Here they remained during that day and the next, waiting for a favorable change
i the disease. The sick man was impatient of this delay to the last degree, ane
Maurice had great difficulty in keeping him quiet. But their detention was ind

THE MAID OF THE RANCHE.

i

'19

'4 r
,  FY
4 ( w
tv
iy fi}
F  r
r  'Nk
rt
.e'
}
tf_
s "]
1s
J1
if
y's
. 1
J4
4  t
44
xe
t4
FF bbfifi ..
v4t
yq jyy1
=11V
';A t
Sf
t;w
,L 5
cc,
YV T
r+l[+
Yypt
'I


8o

THE MAID OF THE flANCHE.

demnified by finding between the crevices of the logs of which the camp -was built
a small piece of paper, with the following lines traced upon'it, evidently by Iris,
but without signature.u
" We have come thus far on horseback.  We have stopped here to rest, for
this kind of exercise fatigues us exceedingly. We are still ignorant of our place
of destination. Father is stern snd.silent, and sometimes harsh. Our minds are
full of anxious for ebodings. This note may possibly meet the eyes of Noel Noon,
or some person interested in us."
This-note had much to do with increasing the restlessness of Noon.
On the third day of their detention, while Maurice was hunting, he saw a man
crossing the river in a-dug-out. Although a considerable distance from him, he
imagined that he had seen the same before. Full of this thought he walked down
the river, concealing his person from view by keeliing among the trees, with the
intention of -getting a nearer and better view of the individual who had excited
his curiosity.
Unfortunately there was an abrupt bend in the river between him and the man
in the dug-out, and before he had gone round it, the object of his scrutiny had
crossed and disappeared. Going down to the water's edge, he discovered the
dug-out drawn up into the bushes. Examining it closely, he perceived that an-
fle ball had passed through one side, splintering it considerably. Instantly he
recollected the incident that had transpired on his first meeting with Manuel Hart ;
viz, the unlucky shot, and the consequent bravado of the back-woodsman.
If the latter had not been 'left under arrest at General Burleson's camp, he
would not have hesitated to say that he had just seen him crossing the Brazos.
But the facts in the case were very much against this'supposition ; for he doubt-
ed not .that Hart had expiated his villanies in a terrible manner. He knew
the sentiments of the officers in regard to his.guilt, and not one of them believed
that an alibi could be proved, relative to his last interview with the Mexican of-
ficer,-where the traitorous plot had been fully developed.- : It was proved that he
had been there, as specified by two witnesses, and how could it be shown by any
amount of rebutting testimony, that he was in another locality and otherwise en-
gaged ?
Harper pursued his way to the camp, deeply cogitating the subject. The sun
was just going down, and the shadows of twilight were silently invading the for-
est. ' Our hero was but a short distance from camp, when Meltiah Moss sudden-
ly glided from behind a tree, and stood before him, holding up his finger tad-
monish him to cautions utterance. .
" You have doubted my perfessions about tryin' to do better and reform like,
but I've come now to prove that I'm raaly in airnest. The Moderators got word
that Manuel Hart was in difficulty, hovered about Burleson's camp like greedy
kites, attacked the guard one night, killed several of 'em, and-carried the traitor
in triumph.' He and a score of blackguards are now in the neighborhood arter
you and Noel Noon. If you aint off afore mornin','you'll be dead men."
" Can all this be true, Moss ?" asked harper, looking searchingly at Meltiah.
" True as preachin', and more so ; because I don't believe all preachin's true
rhis isn't quite all, neither, Jack Lawleess, the chap as :calls hinrself the.Texan
cub, is' with him; as full of wickedness as ever a critter was. ' If ydu aint out of
this plan soon, your chance wont be worth a charge of powder."

I

TsF, MAID oF THE RANCHES.

81

x

CHAPTER XIII.
HOW' MANUEnL's PLOT SUCCEEDED.
FOR a time Harper remained silent, reflecting upon the strange communication
which had been made. The degree of importance to be attached to what Moss
*     had'affirmed, was something not easily-determined ; for, hitherto that personage
bad  proved a most unconscionable rogue. But now his manner appeared, much
changed ; the express ion of his countenance was not so sinister, and his voice was
more earnest and. me 'ming.
"You speak advisedly in this matter, I trust," he said, resolving to testhim, so
far as he was able tollo so.
" I have told you jestthe truth and no more; but I don'pmuch expect to make
you believe it, because, as my repution for veracity isn't oncommon, I rayther
expect that I have kept the company of Jack Lawless.and sichkind of specim-
entsof human natur.so long, that I've larnt many things not necessary to my
well bein'," responded Meltiah.
"There's no question about it in my- mind," replied Maurice, with a smile;
"but," he added i mediately, in a serious tone, " if the marvellous tale that you
have been telling me be strictly true,: what,copree aru I to'pursue?"
" That's the very thing to be decided. I think if I was in your shoes, I should
shoulder my shooting' stick and cut like a streak !  I generally finds that there's
nothing' scarcely, like a man's legs, when he's in difficplty. , Thway 'tis with mne
when I see anythin' like danger inthe distance, I take to ny taps kinder nater-
ally, and leave it:at a two forty gait. But as you are now situated, that doesn't
appear to be altogether easy ; for without the practice of unusual caution, you'll
have Hart and his wolverines'on your trail; and unless you're -oncommon smart,
they'll 'run you down for sartain, when you'll be worked off 'without the benefit
of court-martial, or.three days' grace. If you stay where you are, you'll have to
bear a pretty hard siege, and I don't see bow you're going' to do that, geeim there's
only two.of you, and one sick in the bargain."
-  "To allhuman appearance our chance to escapewill be small, if we adopt the
latter course ; and yet I do not know how to act otherwise, because Noon isn't
able to bear the fatigue of rapid travelling, at present."
"I know it's a kind of hard case, but J don't see no way of helpia' it. I've
done what I thought was right, and you can take what course you like the
best."
Meltiah Moss said no more, but shouldering his rifle, stalked away, leavipg our
hero in a sublime state of doubt, and uncertainty, He reached the, camp in a
condition of unpleasant,apxiety,.audbe had no definite means of rendering his
perplexities less harassing. Noon, was worse. than he had been hitherto,?and
Harper at first-questioned the propriety of-telling him what he had heard; more
mature reflection however, inducedhim Ao lay the matter before his friend, who
listened attentively, and expressed ,his opinion to: the effect that. therewas, a,
strong probability of the wholebeing strict true; thathart was.a  arg
ing obtained his liberty through the instrumentality of a party of Moderator : ---"
the same doubtless spoken ofiby Dorvillerasld,s~timulated, by a desire for r~-
iation, he had induced his friends to join in an entorprie against l arpe;ad
himself. Nothing was more likely. Next to the love of life, the thirst"for re

I

,Y s
'a t
x; y?1
fk
r k
Zgg.S
M1
i aA
+f
E
iY
yy}x
C (t)Jrjr
171
x  f
t1Y
#iF
fl
VE S
his
Ir'J
4' t
1s
}y
"  ;ii2[i
St
Iii
q f
.kyS
P
J1
t
I
I  .
1E

i '
'         r


THE MAID OF THE- RANCHE.

genge is paramount with bad men. Hart had objects to gain, and putting
them both out of existence, he doubtless considered it an important step in the
consummation of his designs. They therefore might expect the worst, and the
probability of falling into the hands of the traitor was indeed too strong not to
excite real apprehensions.
The Moderators, many of them, were men aggregated from the floating popu-
lation of Texas, fugitives from justice from other states, persons without moral
principle, with few ties to bind them to any place, and with no visible means of
gaining a livelihood. Therefore, an easy, vagrant life accorded best with their
dispositions and previous habits. 'What are esteemed crimes among the healthy
portions of community,.were by them deemed matters so common-place, as to be
of very little, or of no'importance.
To fight, the Regulators whenever opportunity offered, to appropriate any'
horses, which they might find, to their own use; or any other available property,
formed distinguishing traits in their characters. Not that all who belonged to
this restless faction were men destitute of honesty, and sold to the commission or,
crime, but there were too many of that stamp mixed up with it, to makeit an
agency of good to the country. The more peace-loving, quiet and conservative
members of this organisation stayed at home, minding their bwn affairs; and it
was only such-as we have described, who moved about in'predatory bands, for
the purposes named.                                              ' .
Noon proposed leaving the place as speedily as possible ; having good
horses, he believed they might be able to leave. Hart and his fellows be-
hind.
Harper thereupon reminded him of his illness, which in the excitement of the,
moment he'had almost forgotten. Noel's countenance instantly lost its hopeful
expression, and he acknowledged that to stay where they were appeared to be
the alternative, although twenty to two were fearful odds..-
Having decided relative to this point,- Harper set about putting the camp in
as good, a state .f defence as possible. He prepared barricades to fasten the
door, made loop' holes in various places, and put their pistols and rifles in
proper order. Noel assisted him .in this as much as his feeble condition would
admit.,
Until midnight they awaited the approach of'theirexpected enemies with not
a little anxiety, when they relaxed their vigilance, somewhat inclined to believe
that the alarm had been entirely without foundation. Maurice persuaded the
forester to lie down and attempt to get the rest which'he needed ;, and, while
giving him a simple decoction of herbs'which he had prepared, both were start-
led by a gentle knocking at the 'door. Instantly the hunters caught their
weapons.
"Who knocks ?" demanded Harper.
"Meltiah Moss," responded a voice without.
" Are you-alone ?"
Moss replied that he was, and if Harper had any doubt of it, he could look
out and satisfy'himself.  -
Our hero opened the door and Meltiah entered.
" Why do you dome, and what news do you bring ?n
"I come because two and one make three ; and in a case like this, three might
be a great deal better than two. i don't greatly like to--fight in the open: air,
because I allers likes somethin' atween *ie and t  enemy; and these logs have
the appearance of being' bullet proof. If Hart and-his fellers should come up,
you needn't say pertickerler that I'm here, because it might work agin me artery
wards. If we should have to knot under I've got some hand-culls in my
pockets which I Can jest slip on to mf wrists, and'make 'em think I'm here agin-
my will, 'and a prisoner.".

Neither Noon nor Maurice could help smiling at the ingenuity displayed by
their new ally, who seemed resolved to secure his personal safety in all cases
where it was possible.
"1I haven't told you the news, yet," resumed Moss. " I've seen Warpath, and
you may expgt him afore mornin', with several of his heathen critters' as he
calls warriors. If it hadn't been for that expectation, I raaly don't think you'd
have seen Meltiah Moss in this here establishment ; because as I've a constitu-
tional weakness which allers make me ine the strongest party. I s'pose, how-
somever, it's something' a kind providence has gifted me with, to keep me out; of
danger ; and notwithstandin' I've got that blessing' so abundantly, I paint sinfully
proud of it, by no means, because everybody has some distinguishin' virtue that
shines brighter than others."
This time Meltiah Moss was indeed the herald of cheering news, although
neither of the foresters were yet disposed to rely implicitly upon his assever-
ations.
This conversation had scarcely ceased, whenNoon descried a man approach-
ing the camp from the river. The parties watched his coming with much inter-
est. He announced his 'arrival by .a peremptory knocking, The foresters al-
lowed him to repeat this demonstration several times before giving any mdi-
dication that he was heard ; and then Harper demanded the business of the
intruder.
".I've come to see if thar war anybody here. Thar 's a feller critter down below
that's shakin' his clothes off'from him with the fever and ager."
"I regret to heads it," replied Maurice. "'Better give him some quinine."
" Must give him   something , I reckon, stranger, or he'll shake himself
into futurity almost directly. Want to get,you to go down and help bring
him in."
"That's humbug stuff!" muttered Moss, in an under tone.
"Take him on your shoulder and bang him right along," returned
Noon.
" Couldn't think of it ! Weighs two hundred and fifty," replied the
man.
" I know the varmint--don't trust him," added Meltiah.
" Aint you coming? " continued the applicant, impatiently.
"Wait until morning," said Harper.
"4What ! and let a feller critter die! That isn't the nature of my bringing' up.
Jt allers puts me in pain to see a poor man die for want of a little attention. I
never could bear to see an individual shakin' himself away to kingdom come with
the ager,"
Harper thereupon assured the fellow that he did not see fit to comply with his
request.; upon which, with some farther importunity, he went away, apparently
highly indignant at his ill success.
At the'expiration of a quarter of an hour, three persons appeared bringing
what -appeared to be a heavy burden. As they drew nearer, it proved to be a
man.
"1More gammon !" said Meltiah.
" Stay where you are--don't, come any nearer I" shouted Noon, through a
loop-hole.
4'We've got the man with fever and ager, and be shakes so that it takes two
of us to hold his har on."
" Approach at your peril I" replied Noon.
"You can't be so onhuman as to deny shelter to a sick person," retorted the
spokesman of the party.
"Put him down and let him come along, and we'll take care of him," re-
turned- Noel.

82

Tits- MAID OF THE RANCAE.

83

N J
Y 4
it
kil
t r}
Oil
trrJ
l ,a
K7
"        i r
IS1i
I      s
IFRD
tg.
f-
JJ


( )

THE MAID OF THE RANCHE.

- ' Can't walk a step, the travel is all shaken out of him,' was the rejoinder.
"You're sure he can't wally ?"
" Not if all the Camanches were after him."
"I'll, test that," said Noon, in a low voice to Harper, and immediate dis.
charged one barrel of his pistol.-
The effect of this harmless shot was instant and wonderful:th  dropped the
sick man, who, the moment he had recovered from the shock of his unexpected.
fall, scrambled to.his feet, and scampered away .after his companions, without
giving any particular indications of the shakes.
" Now they'll have to unmask their battery, I take it," observed Melt iah, and
he was qiute,-correct ; for in a few moments a party of eighteen or twenty per-
sons appeared in sight,-headed by Manuel Hart, who insolently ordered Harper
and his friend to come out-to them, stating that refusal woulded be attend with
prompt and summary punishment.-
To this demand, our friends of course paid no attention.' Manuel stormed
and threatened, and advanced as near the-camp as he dared. Noon assured him
that if he fired upon them, they should return the compliment, and admonished
him to keep off;, but.he refused to listen, and after consulting a few moments
with Jack Lawless, told someof his coadjutors to commence hostilities by firing
upon the camp, when several balls perforated the door, and lodged in logs at the
opposite side.1
Both Harper and his friend Were at loss how to act under the circumstances.
The idea of  shedding blood, was repugnant to their feelings'; and yet there ap-
peared ;to.be no other alternative. Stern necessity bade thm retaliate and de-
fend themselves to the last. They deplored the urgency of the emergency which
.compelled them to turn their arms against those who ought' to be neighbors and
brethren..
"iWe must return the fire," said Maurice,"' but for one, I will endeavor to
wound without destroying life."  *
"I haven't been gifted with no such nice scruples as them," said Meltiah,
"and I wont say that'them as.I hit 'll live,"
Harper discharged one of his barrels, and the right arm of a fellow reloading
his rifle, dropped powerless by his side. The ball badepassed through- it break-
ing the bone. Noel and Moss both followed .his example in firing, and their
shots took effect, inflicting apparently serious injuries' ~.
Intimidated by this unanticipated demonstration, the parties fell hastily bank,
taking shelter under the bank of the river from whence they continued to fire at
random taking good care to expose their persons as little as possible. , Know-
ing that this mode of warfare would not effect their object, unless some chance
shot should pass through a crevice or the door, and do the bloody deed which
was in contemplation, Hart incited his companions to make a sudden charge
and perform the work at once.
This they attempted, but met with a reception that repulsed them, with the
loss-of two of their number, while at the same time Hart was wounded in the
shoulder.
Men of real resolution and courage would certainly have pressed the attack,
without once thinking of failure or retreat ; but this faction not been engaged
in a worthy cause, could'not.summon to their aid those high qualities which al
ways ensar a victory ; and' after some considerations withdrew, taking with' them
their wounded. What their object was, the next chapter will, more fully
develop.                                                  .     . -.

CHAPTER Xy,
THE LIPAN CHIEF.

SMARTING with the pain of his wound, chagrined by his want of success, and
thirsting for vengeance, Manue Hart prepared to make a more build, decisive at-
tack. In carrying out his purposes, he had not anticipated any resistance, sup-
posing that Harper and his friend would at once succumb to his demands, and
awed by numbers, not be presumptuous enough to offer ;any resistance.
Having been so much disappointed in this expectation, he was now more than
ever desirous to put his original intentions into execution. .,His.coidjutors, also,
on account of the.punishment which they had received, were impatient to make
a more effective demonstration. The faction was divided into four parties, who
were to advance upon the camp in different directions ; and as they believed
there were but two persons to oppose them, they could not well resist an attack
made at so many points.
Another ingenious device was resorted to, to secure their personal safety in
this unequal warfare, and was an expedient which brave men, would have scorned
to adopt, under the circumstances.
They felled a large cypress, put it into lengths corresponding to the height of
a man, and then split them in the manner that tiles afe riven. These pieces
were of sufficient width to cover a person advancing, and thick enough, as they
believed, to be bullet proof. Each man was to carry one of these monster tiles
before him, and thus advance with impunity upon their victims.
This scheme certainly looked very hopeful, and while they were maturing it,
we will see how things, are going at the little cabin, which was being besieged.
While they were gloomily listening .to the axes of their assailants, Harper.
who was looking from a loop-hole on the west side of the structure, fancied that
he saw a figure creeping stealthily toward them from the cover of the trees. At
first he could not determine whether it was really a person approaching, or some
animal that was, perhaps, a nocturnal prowler about the premises. On this
point his doubts were not of long continuance. The appearance advanced, grew
more distinctly defined, and confirmed his first conjectures. It was a human
being, whore object' evidently was to approach the camp; but what his inten-
tion in so doing might be, was yet to be made a apparent. Nor did that remain
a matter of uncertainty. The little park was elated with hope, when at length,
the form of Warpath. the Lipan chief, was sufficiently defined to be recognized.
Mauriceinstantly thrust his handkerchief through the opening and shook it.
to assure him that'he was seen, and his motives appreciated.
See pg this friendly signal, the red man glided quickly forward, and was in-
stantly -admitted.
" I have come," he said, in a low and impressive voice, " I have come to put
my heel on the head of the big mocasson snake, and crush him into the grourid.
He shall crawl no longer among the sheltering brakes,nor crouc ia the dark
swamps. He shall strike no more with his treacherous fangs while he lurks in
the bending grass. Ihave come with my braves to cut out his tongue, and des-
 troy him, that my white brothers may walk among his favorite ,haunts without
fear of being bitten by a serpent that never hisses before ie fixes his fangs 'into
the flesh of his victim."
"Thi *ords of the Lipan are cold water to one that is thirsty," responded;
Harper.
Dr like the voice of the Master of Life," added Noon.

*

84

11

I

THE MAID OF MHE RANCHE.

,,
,
4
i'
SS
S
t
z
,!}
,4
.              ,i
t
H
r$
. ;
i
,k
-
; ,
bl
~i
3°
'     S.
i4  t
. !
i
+ t
}
R   .                           ,yU

4 85


THE MAID- of THE RAIOHIC
"Or like a tree that shelters one as doesn't like to fight in the open air, with
nothin' afore him,," said Meltiah, sentimentally.
a8I've just been to look at the white. traitor," resumed Warpath. " He is
preparing to pounce upon you as some foul bird upon his prey. Part of my
braves will come into the damp; the others will remain concealed among the
trees to attack them in the rear, and so cut them off.'
- Nothing could. be urged against the wisdomand practicability of this plan ;
buttarper ventured to express an earnesthope that human life should be re-
spected as much as possible. They were,.be averred his countrymen, but- men
who were unhappily misdirected ; they had fatally mistaken the way of bappi-
ness ; bad influences were continually acting upon them,; they were ignorant
,nd,perverted minds, and In fact, were more truly objects of commiseration than
f vengeance.                                                      .
Noon endorsed these-sentiments to a certain extent, but expressed the idea
that our hero was probably too lenient in his feelings, forgettng. in his compas-
sion, the claims of justine. A floating population:of this kind he considered an
absolutely curse to the country. Reform could scarcely be hoped for while.such
depraved consociations existed. He believed that they should be thinned out
like noxious weeds in a garden., They needed something to startle th  .,Com-
mbon-place warnings ould not do ; they must be made to contempla death in
its rnost sudden iand uppalling aspects, in order that they might pause and ask
thermselves if they were prepared for a similar fate. Men who, associated for
criminal purposes, in large bodies, he said,, seldom, reformed, but, rather grew
worse.
Warpath listened respectfully to these thoughts. and suggestions, apd theb re-
plied to the purport that he had taken the matter into his own ,bands; that he
was a chief-should lead his braves where and against whom he deemed it wise.
The responsibility, in.this,'case, he gave them to understand, was his own.
" They have," he added, " wronged my people. They have spelled the blood
of the unprotected Lipan, when they found him sleeping.in his cabin, or hunting
in the woods. They have.slain our warriors,. and insulted our women. They.
have no people and'no country ; they belong to, nobody, they have- no homes,
no governments, and no love to bind them anywhere. , They, are unfit to: live,
and I have said that many of them shall perish. Do not speak ; the anger of
the Lipans is kindled, and burns with afervent, flame. It asks for victims to
appease the manesof their departed braves. They shall have them !"
Noon and Harper made no reply.. The proud dignity, of the chief forbade
rejoinder. They knew that his resolution was fixed, and could not be changed.
A band of dark and robust warriors came stealing into the camp. In the
dim moonlight they were grim as war-paint could make them, and silent as
spectres of the dead.. The cabin was soon full of them, and iron barrels were
bristling from every crevice and aperture.
Though truly grateful to Heaven for this providental rescue, Harpernould
not witness these preparations without regretting that the misdirected passions
oftmen should lead to such results. He did not forget, however, to express in a,
dignified and feeling manner, his sense of gratitude to the brave Lipan.
Meltiah Moss wasg, highly pleased. with the turn affairs was now taking. He
had 'hitherto entertained some serious apprehensions concerning his personal
safet (a thing uppermost in his mind), but now he had the indescribable satis-
fdction Of finding himself backed by the strongest party.
.Iantime'the decisive and eventful moment drew near. The Moderators.ap-
p oached cautiously at four points, , holding up before them.thecypress tiles
which they had riven'for the purpose.    .
"-How much better 'twould be for them " said Meltiah,." if they would take
that business altogether, and do nothing but make shingles."

TiE .MAID OF TuE RANCHE.
Ignorant of what awaited them at the cabin, and of the-danger that 1ujked
around them without they advanced with a feeling of security and confideie
which they had not before experienced. Protected., by their wooden shiels,
they even jested and laughed as they approached. They were quite sere that
they had circumvented 'the-two foresters,-and that they'would surrender without
farther resistance. It was a fatal mistake.
On came the assailants, and not a 'shot-was fired. The Lipans were'wait'ng
the expected signal-from their chief. It came at length like the shrill cry of
the eagle, when he makes a swoopsand bears off: in triumph his struggling prey.
The camp shook with the ,vehemenee' of the discharge that burst from: it on
every side, while-thetree's and the forest scenery were lighted up almost simul-
taneously with a continuous fire which poured its destruction upon the assailants
in the rear.
The wall of wooden shields was beaten down, the.'hands that held them lost
their strength, either by the power of"the Angel of death, or -thrQugh 'terror; and
soon the spot where Hartand his dissolute 'companions. had stood was hidden
from view by-a dense cloud of; smoke..
The leaden -volleys din1=not cease; they continued to' sweep 'the surrounding
ground with rapidity: 'Presently the firing was suspended. The red warrigrs
rushed as if- by a conimor impulse from the wood-and the cabin.
Maurice shuddered; for'he khew their} purpose.; and while they were .gone, he
heard mingling with theirshouts of exultation, hollow groans and sharp' -ries
of agony. But the latter-indications were soon bushed ; a solemn silence brood,
ed over the scene. The sulphurous smoke rolled away like dissolving mist. The
rosy dawn reddened in'the far off west,.and struggling: beams of .light came t9
dispel the domioancy of night.
The Lipans erected a- war-post in front of the cabin, and forming a circle
about it, performed the- scalp dance,,while sundry red 'trophies of savage victory
were seen suspended at their belts.
Harper and Noon did.not examine the spot where the Indians had performed
the last; and to them,-important rite in the usagest of barbaric warfare. They
did not askhow:many had fallen, or the names of those who had been swept.
away by the'besom of destruction. They did not inquire if the body of Man.
uel' Hart had been recognized, orwhether hehad escaped the effects of this sig
nal blow.
Meltiah, whose conscience was of a very complacent and yielding nature, did
not trouble himself about these nice mofal distinctions, but shouted, danced,
menaced the war-post, and hacked it with his hatchet as bravely and vauntingly
as the warriors themselves. Probably his reform notions had not had sufficient
time to leaven 'the whole lump of his disposition.
Having shaken hands with Warpath, and thanked his braves ina becoming
manner, our hero and- his friend mounted their horses and left the spot, glad *t
behold new scenery, and to banish from\view the evidences of human conflict
which had been so recently' presented on every side. The excitement'which
these stirring scenes had produced in Noel's system, had effected a happy result.
A gentle perspiration was induced which the exercise of riding on horsebaek
kept up, thus relieving the cutaneous vessels from obstructions, and:throwing o$
the fever which'1had prevailed.
*       *      * ,  *     *          *       * *
We must now request the'reader to accompany us to another scene, leaving
our two friends to pursue their way atleisure toBurleson's camp. We will go
to a substantial dwelling situated on the Rio San'Miguel,,a little below San .p
tonio de Bexar.
The building alluded to, at the date of -our story, was surrounded by a high

{ F
"  #
.
)
fI
.t
4
i
li
if
,
'r
'4
'  1
b
,Y'
L
:{
f
i
. p
;s
ti
f+
4
i
r mss'
^C
r
'3


88                   THE MAID OF THE RANCHES
wall of considerable strength, and had formerly been .a convent of some note
but had now fallen into decay and neglect, and had, of late years, been inhabited
by a few sisters of charity, most of whom had left the place since the opening
of- the war. . Our business being with other.characters, we shall not particular-
ly notice those two or three sisters, who are still seen occasionally gliding in.and
out of the premises.
.   Seated in a gloomy apartment of this time-worn fabric, are two females. They
are our heroine and her sister, The former sits at an antique desk writing. If
the conventionalities of civilized life will overlook the impertinence, we will
venture to glance over the shoulder of 'the fair one who is putting her thoughts
upon paper. The words which are traced read in the following manner:
" This uncertainty and mystery grows every day more insupportable. Why
we are forced to make this long journey to this cheerless place, I do not know,
and yet I cannot but suspect its object ; for it involves the honor and probity
of -one whom nature should teach me to reverence and love. Alas! .I fear I do
neither. But is it my fault? ?Would not paternal care and tenderness on his
part, meet with'a proper response from me? I can remember when he appear-
ed different ; but now the influence of that bad man is upon him. My mind
often reverts to that singular stranger, Dorville. I know not why I am so much
attracted towards him. My thoughtsufly to him as to a friend, while I am wholly
ignorant of his character and history.-What shall I write concerning that gal-
lant Virginian'?  What shall I say in extenuation of the wrong I have inadver-
tently done him ?  I'sincerely hope that those dark rumors concerning him are
unfounded-having their sole origin in the brain of an unscrupulous enemy. But
why should I perplex myself with this subject? Why does my mind occupy it-,
self with one who may be unworthy of my interest, and whom I may never see
again.-Ramona is sad ; she is doubtless thinking of honest Noel Noon, and the
new alliance which father proposes for her with the Mexican officer-Captain
Morales."
The reader will perceive that what we have read appears to be an extract
from a diary, which is really the case ; andupon looking at the preceding pages,
we shall find records of an earlier date, having reference to the journey from our
heroine's horae on the Braz os to her present place of residence, but which we
will not stop to examine. We will 'only make one more .extract from the same
page, and under the date which she is now writing.
" The whole plot is developed at last, and it is much worse than I had antici-
pated. My suspicions in relation to Manuel Hart have indeed been but too well
founded. He seeks, by the practice of the most cruel duplicity, to make me his
wife ; and my father advocates-his cause-nay insists upon my compliance,,using
language towards me which fills my mind wi-th terror. Whither can I fly for
relief ?Who will espouse my cause, and protect me from oppression so unkind, so
unjust, so repugnant? , I have never before been truly unhappy, but now I am
indeed wretched. The rude woodsman has been here with Captain Morales, and
has declared himself in terms too plain not to be understood; I expressed my
sentiments freely ; he grew insolent, and left me in anger.
"This is perhaps the danger of which Dorville warped me.. Strange Dorville I
I -wish I could see him. At present I may consider myself a prisoner. Ramo-
na is equally unhappy, and we think of attempting to escape from this place.
But where should we go for shelter and sympathy ?"
Having perused the foregoing, the reader will be able to form a tolerable ac-
cdrate idea of the situation of the Rathburn girls. He will understand what
Manuel;Hart wasidoing, while. he was connected with the Hunters of the Bor-
der, and be able to account for his mysterious goings and comings, while at Bur.
leson's camp.                   _

THE MAID ' of THE RANCIIE
CHAPTER XVI.
A STRANGE E DISCLOSURE.-
Tae maidens were daily allowed the privilege of walking in the garden within
the enclosure, but Rasthburn strictly enjoined on them that they were on no ac.
count to attempt to go beyond. The excuse which he made for this injunction,
was that the country was in such a troubled state that it would not be safe to
do so, for enemies might be lurking in the vicinity, from whom they might ex-
pect insult and captivity.
:Although both the girls believed that this 'was not the real motive that in
fluenced him, they were prudent enough not to express their'sentiments.
On'the evening succeeding the foregoing scene, Iris and Raniona wishing for
fresh air, availed themselves of what liberty was granted them, and walked among
the trees and shrubbery within the grounds attached to the house. Their str-
prise was great when they discovered that new and significant precautions had
been taken. Two Mexican 'soldiers were keeping guard over the premises, and
the points of their bristling bayonets could be seen above the walls, as they paced
regularly their rounds.
Iris, who was the first to perceive this circumstance, immediately called Ra-
mona's attention to the same, asking her whether she thought the sentinels were
to watch their movements and prevent their escape, or to secure their safety, and
warn them of the approach of those who might not respect even female helpless-
ness and innocence.
Her sister was of the opinion that the first supposition was correct ; for their
father's manner had changed much of late, and it was evidently his intention to
coerce them into alliances repugnant to their better feelings, and in directions
where their affections were not engaged, nor could be on account of the dispar-
ity of taste, age and pursuits.
"I have been attempting," she added, "to analyze his thoughts and intentions
-to gain a deeper insight into his nature. I know that he was ever irritable
in disposition, and subject to fits of melancholy, but he never manifested that
forbidding sternness that now marks all his conduct. There is a deep mystery
hanging about his actions which remains to be fathomed. I sometimes fear that
his reason is dethroned."
" He is absent minded, and often has to be addressed several times before ma-
king any answer.  I have watched him 'during his solitary walks in and about
this enclosure, and witnessed indubitable evidences of a mind suffering great anx-
iety and unhappiness, ifnot remorse.  You know that our sympathies flow out
in favor of the patriotic Texans, and father formerly was imbued with the same
'feeling ; but how changed is he now I It is true (I speak it with.shame and regret),
that he holds correspondence with the enemies of Texas. You are aware that
he talks much with Captain Morales, and is frequently with him. It fills me with
sorrow to see him tampering with those-seeking to enslave our countrymen, and
place upon their limbs the shackles of bondmen.
"I have long observed his growing partiality and sympathy withthe degrad-
ing policy of Santa Anna, bet respect for the paternal character has hitherto
prevented me from speaking to you so freely on the subject. There is one thing
perhaps that you may have remarked," she.added, in a low tone ; " that is, that
our father hasan inordinate thirst for gold. I fear it is his idol-the ambition
of -his life-the predominating idea that haunts him  always. It pursues him
during the day, ahd disturbs his dreams by night. I have noticed the mental pain
which he appears to suffer, and though he never realized to me my highest con-
ceptions of a parent, I behold, with secret dread, his increasing sternness.. Shall
I say it, Ramon,-- he never was to me a father, and the chords of my affections
never responded to what few words of endearment he may have bestowed upon


30         -          Tai AMAin o IriS  ANCHE.
me in happier days. There has been'(whyslhold I conceal it) an itnpassable
gulf between us. I could not pass over to him, because the abyss intervening
was not bridged over with gentleness. There is a part of my nature that still
lies',dormant within mie,,andhis voice-cannever arouse it to-aotin,:and develop
its beauties. ,You are his favorite:; to you he sometimes opens his heart. There
are evidently moments when-he -loves yound I am regladthat thereis even
one being who can: aitimes, cell out a spark of humanity from his bosom.'"
Your observations.are just," re lied Ramona, 'le has shown more kind.
ness to me than to you. He says I am more like him in, person, and reminded
him more of, our dead mother. Our organizations - are dissimilar, in many.res-
pects. Your mind is of a finer texture, and your intellectualhfaculties more ex-
pansive than mine., I feel that you are my superior, and have-stronger claims to
favoritism than myself. But the season ofhis tenderness is past,.and why should
I speak of it?"
"Rush I" said Iris, -in a whisper. " He is approaching, and Hart is
with him."
The maidens instantly secreted themselves behind some dense shrubbery to
avoid being seen. Rathburn and Hart approached conversing earnestly. Por-
tions of the conversation the young ladies were able to hear.
iart appeared to be in bad -temper, while Rathburn was gloomy, and also
,somewhat ,iritable.
I tell you I wont be put off," said Manuel. "I'm ready to do all I said I
would. The gal is here, and there's nothin' to hinder."
"Try soft words," responded Rathburn.
"Dios ! Much good they will dot' I'd as soon thinkof ,coaxing a fox from
his hole with corn, or catchin' a weasel asleep. I can tell by the flash of the
girl's eye, 'that fiatterin' ways aint of no use, whatsomever. Nothin' but fear
and force will ever bring her to it, and you might as well make up your mind to
it first as last."
"Business enough I business enough   to marry off two young women against
eir wishes I I'm perplexed and harassed nearly to madness. Hart,,you'll make
me desperate."
You know what I can do,"rejoined Manuel, sullenly.
"Betraying our countrymen for money, is another thing I don't greatly-
relish."
1It'll always be well for you to bear in Mind the perticerlers of that ill case,
for fear your conscience 'll=get too'tender," added Hart, with a sneer.
Maledietions upon you and the will, both I" retorted Rathburn, bitterly.
"What you're doin' aint no worse than what you have done; and a:good pile
of bank notes or Mexican dollars will make a good salve for your conscience.
You know if I aboudonly-speak to the gal, and tell her what I know, you
wouldn't be.able, I'ta exercise any more authority over her ; and if the
news should get' to certain ears, you might be accommodated with lodgings in a
habitation made of stone, and ornamented with grated windows."
" The old story-the old story 'I muttered Rathburn, moodily.  "I never
. hall hear the last of it., You always 'stand in my path like an evil genius, to
pervert mybetter impulses with threats and--.-"o
" ol, added Hart, sareastiealy,
96 WO "I ,if'I-mst                   ..l.
emst sel myself to the-what time will satisfy you ?'
A week Is the longe9t stretch I can tink- of, but CaptaintMoral s you
can put o1'h90ger; and ,ere wont be so much objection in that quarter, I
tadkeit.'
athbuin mused a moment.
Fr Heavens sake, 'Hart, Canjt you forget this, and he a man.! he excliim-
ed, at lcngtb4

Tn  MAD oF' ,fTHr RANOHE
Manuel's brow  grew  dark, 'and a more sinister gloom .gathered uponlia
ountenan go,"he said, "to New Orleans, and tell that you have forged Mel
cheated your sister's child of what belonged to her, and shut herout. of your *f-
fhctions ;ver since."                                   eprsedi
A deadly paleness overspread the features of Rathburn. He pressed his
hand spasmodically to his forehead,-and seemed to stagger beneath the intensity
of his emotions.
"For God's sake, Hart, don't speak so loud I Some one might hear:-,it might
ruin me, you know, and I never could, look the gals in the face again, if they
should mistrust-this. ~ What misery it is to be -a villain."
"You see how fast I've got you."
" Yes-.yes ; fix your time. It shall be done. I can be stern, harsh and de-
cided, and I will be."
"cThat sounds better."
" How do you succeed with the captain ?", added Rathburn, anxious to change
the subject.
"Swimmingly ! I have an appointment with him to-night, to finish up the
affair. He's to pay me half of it down, and the rest arter the Hunters of the
Borders are done for."
It's u villanous transaction, and you may expect something  orse than im.
prisonment, if you get detected."
Manuel glanced uneasily at Rathburn.
I hope you don't think' of informin'?" he said, quickly.
Who thought of it ?" returned the other, drily.
" No knowin' what people 'll do. Folks as '11 rob a 'friendless gal may. be
tempted to do almost anythin'. . I dare say, I shan't Bever do worse than for-
gin' a will."
"       .No more, no more  Let it be understood between us, that you shall have
her mn a week."
Yes, one week from to-night."
And with these words the two walked slowly from the grounds, leaving the
two maidens agitated with emotions too painful to be described. They did not
venture to leare their hiding-place for some moments. Clasping each other's
hands, they trod the gloomy walks in silence, neither being calm enough to.speak
of what they had heard.
The developments of that hour was indeed calculated to awaken strange sen-
sations in the minds of the maidens. Was it possible for them to misappre-
heid the purport of what had been said in their heating?  Had they grasped
the threads of the mystery and followed them 'to their termination ? Was there
any room for misconstruction? Who was the child referred to by Hart? ?What
was the secret of the will?
These were questions of vital import. They presented themselves for solution
with lightning rapidity, -and though neither spoke them aloud, they were none
the less distinctly defined. Singular conceptions and suspicions could not but be
aroused, and they all pointed in one direction.
'The young ladies went back to 'their room in a whirl of amazement and
doubt, such as they had never before experienced.
They could not'sleep, but remained acutely wakeful, meditating upon what
they had heard. The mystery of Manuel Hart'spower was bow apparent. Thoy
had no longer 'cause to wonder why their father bowed to his influence, or$hy
his brow was so oftenrclouded with gloom, and his soul .agitated with remorse.
In the morning, the sisters were able to talk -with some degree of calhspess
ipbn'the subject. They resolved;to endeavor to persuade their father to $y at
once from the companionship of one so depraved ; to leave the country as spee-
dily as possible, taking every precaution to leave to clue by which Hart 06uld

I
F
.
'
.
i i
,
4
I
Y
2

Atte
! i
t
y
b.
$?
'+
v'
4
f
ti
yt
Kf
t
t .


92'          TE MAID OF'THE RANCHE.

trace hisflight. 'They would accompany him, and cheerfully share his fortunes
in any distant land whither he might go. Of their discovery they agreed not to
soek, but to keep him in ignorance of'their knowledge; but only pressing upon
his consideration, that he could not-be happy while exposed to the influences of
Hart.
Soon after this conversation, the following was written in the diary which Iris
kept.-
"I put'my thoughts upon paper, in order to relieve the burden which oppres-
ses my mind. What wonderful disclosures have been made !  I can scarcely
realize that I am not the subject of some deceptive dream. I perceive what the
truth must be, and yet I dare not speaker write it. I know why -my heart has
not turned to him with filial yearnings. The true instincts of nature have been
obeyed., 'Where shall I look for that paternal tenderness which my being de-
mands? Shall I ever fully penetrate the mystery which isolates 'ne, and makes-
me one destitute of the common sympathies of life?
"Manuel Hart spoke of a forged will, a child robbed of her heritage, and
treated with coldness and neglect. Who was that unfortunate child?  My in-
ner nature tells me who ; it is as palpable to me as sunlight. Am Ian orphan,
and shall I be thrown upon the world without knowing more of my own history?
Decicive steps must be taken. I had rather be a wanderer up and down the,
wide and unknown world, than to be linked with the degrading companionship
of that unprincipled man. I will labor with my hands for those who will em-
ploy me, for all the necessities of existence. Yes, I will be the servant of ser-
vants, and think myself happy in being' so, provided I escape the machinations
of Manuel Hart.-If the man I have been taught to call father, will not listen
to the voice of prudence and reason, and seek safety in flight, alone and unpro-
tected I will steal from this place to encounter whatever fate may be reserved
for one weak and friendless like myself.-Ramona had spoken to him in relation
to this matter. 'His fears and suspicions are terribly awakened by the circum-
stance. He evidently would like to leave the country, but dare not ; and Ramo-
na's importunity has had only the effect to make him more wretched, and more
watchful over us; so our condition is no better, nor our prospects of relief brigh-
ter.., Sometimes I think I will thow myself at his feet and entreat him to tell
- me all ; but his manner is so stern and repellant, that I cannot gain courage to
do so."
.CHAPTER XVII.
C'A          PTERVTH  O N V VN T  G R O U N D'S.  -
DoRVILLE stood upon the bank of the San Miguel. His brow was shaded with
thought, and a melancholy expression played pensively.about hislips.
" I'm full of perplexing thought," he said. "Strange suspicions agitate my
soul. But I must be rational, nor permit fancy tQ;usurp the place of reason. I
inust not suffer myself to be deceived with hope, or transported with vague ex-
pectation. I, must find the thread of the mysterybefore I attempt to unwind it.
Why am I attracted towards Iris Rathburn? Why have I been so deeply dis-
appointed by her inexplicableidisappearance?' Is it.simply because her spirit is
congenial, and her face and figure resemble those of my sainted wife-or is it
because ny soul, made desolate by bereavement, seeks to indemnify its losses by
tle companionship ?    But I must not forget the true obie%,t of my pursuit.
v seen Rathbrin bit twice since I have been in this part of the country, and
mgoken with hini but once, and then but briefly. It struck me that I had some-
'where heard his voice before and seen his face ; the thought was a transient one,
.and soon ceased to be remembered. I must endeavor to learn more of his his
toUy, and the internal monitor keeps assuring me that I ought to seek him out
and study him'

Dorville ceased soliloquizing, and walked slowly up the river. He soon came
within sight of a large dwelling, enclosed by a wall of considerable height. Cu-
riosity prompted him to turn towards it.
As he approached, he was somewhat surprised to see a soldier's musket lean-
ing against said wall. Impelled by the same feelir that had induced him to
advance, he examined the premises more minutely.  Passing the musket and
nearing the angle of the enclosure, he beheld a Mexican soldier conversing with
a female, whom he knew by her.garb to be a sister of charity. Dorville turned
to scrutinize the rear of the fabric, and discovered on the opposite side another
soldier, who was walking to and fro, evidently performing the duty of sentinel.
Now these indications struck him as being very singular, and he queried in
his own mind in regard to what the building contained..,That it was a convent
was the most natural thought.  But what were the two soldiers there, for ?
Were they to keep nuns from running away, or .for the purpose of protection?
While these thoughts were passing through Dorville's mind, he saw a female
figure at one of the lower windows. It wain ar night, but not dark enough to
prevent hira from seeing the. figure quite dminctly, and he imagined that it re-
sembled one whom he had seen. He at once formed the project of scaling the
-wall. Why he wished to do so, he could not well explain, even to himself;' but he
*esolved to carry the idea into practice, which could not well be done while in
such close proximity to the guard. What could he do to obviate this difficulty ?
Should he wait until it was darker, or commence operations at once? Should he
attempt to bribe the sentinel from whom he feared the most danger of discovery?
Should he try to elude his vigilance by the adroitness of his movements, or should
he resort to less amicable methods, watch his opportunity to spring upon and dis-
arn him ?
He resolved to-make trial of the second expedient, and climb softly and stea-
- dily over the adjoining wall into the grounds. He placed his hands upon the
barrier before hini, and had already began to mount, when the soldier who had
been chatting with the nun, returned to his duty, and approached the spot leisure-
ly, singing a national air.
Dorville instantly relaxed his grasp, and threw himself flat upon his face. The
fellow came on directly toward him, and so near that he thought discovery inevita-
ble, and was feeling for' his pistol when the man turned and sauntered. in.an op-
posite direction.
Meantime the other sentinel advanced to the other angle, and called to his friend
asking him, in a jesting way, how be sped with his wooing.
Dorville now feared that he would turn bacl to conkerse- with his friend on
this to him, no'doubt, interesting subject ;'in which event he could not hope to
remain undiscovered. Fortunately this did not occur'; the soldier gave some eva-
sive answer, and continued on as before, humming his song.
Seeing that his comrade was not in a social mood, the other imitated his ex-
a ample, turned upon his heel with military precision, and went whistling on his
rounds, in defiance of discipline.
Now seemed a favorable chance for Dorville to put his:intention in practice,
and 'so arising from his rather uncomfortable position, he began to climb, again ;
but unluckily a stoke, loosened by time and storm, rolled;from its place, making
quite a noise in its descent. Instantly the sentinel who had refused to talk a mo-
ment before, shouted to his companion, desiring to know why he was tumbling
down 'the wall.
The individual addressed promptly denied having any agency in the mutter,
insinuating at'the same time that there must be-somebody on. his side tryi  to
getin. This intimation, however, was received with great contempt, he averring
that he had just walked the whole length of his round to the angle of, the wall,
which was not true.
Both the men moved on again, and Dorville proceeding more cautiously, suc-

C'

;
,
.
f
;
,
ei
,
Aye
Y

I,

f

I

92

THE MAID, OF THE BRANCH.

93

0


I

.TH  MAID OF THE   CAHNo.
eeded in seranblitim up the.wall;,when withoutdifficulty he let himself downup
na lie'otber iile. 'When bebad performed this-feat, he could not help  1Cig1g
himself why his curiosity had impelled him to;suclta;proceedure.?
After lying quiet a short time he was about to leaye his liiding'place to ap'
proach the window where he had seen the figure, when two females, walking
.arm in trrn, entered'the.garden.- Conversing in low and earnest tones they
drew near to-theispot where'-he was concealed. His instinct told him who they
were notwithstinding'thedimness:of twilight;prevented him from seeing them
plainly. tie experienced argemline and indefinastle pleasure in recognizing the
Rathbun maidens. - He twas'about to reveal himself, when a few words reached
his ears that Arrestedhis purpose.                                   d
They were 'takingiupon a subjectthat-enchamined all his interest, and induced
him to'listen: with intense'eagerness.
"-Father still continues stern and -unsympathizing," said amona.  He is
not yet'ready;to opeti his heart and take us into his confidence.  In fact, he
fears uts, adis jeaous'lest weve sh  discover things he would conceal from us.
His: suspicions are excited."
"WFhat opiion have ' ou formed in relation to the child, spoken of by Man-
uel Hart ?' said Iris, in a tremulousvoice. ".Have you ventured to think of
the subject, 'or has any new light dawned upon your, mind ?"
SI dare not think of it. I know,-I feplWhat the truth must be, and yet
have not courage to talk of it. -Sisters we have alway been in thought, afec-
tion add feeling, and we must ever be thus, in defiance even of the late startling
development. I have long observed that, we were unlike in personal appear.
ance,'and differed in mental peculiarities as widely : but I never had suspected
that the natural relationship apparently subsisting between us, was not real.
Within a few hours anew expedient 'for unravelling this mystery has suggested:
or rather a brave =attemptto do so, has been presented to my mind. You know
that fathersas a inalland singularly constructed :box, wicly has often excited
our childish curiosity,,and which I am certain contains papers sof importance ;
for he guards it with the greatest care, and;I have seen him on two or'thre oc-
casions examining;its contents 'with much interest._ My appearance in tose
cases, ws invariably the signal- for him.to discontinue his operations, and re-
turn the box to its accustomed place. I propose that we avail ourselves of the
first opportunity to make ourselves acquainted with the nature of the papers
therein contained; for I have a strong impression they will throw some light
upon this subject.".
" The proposition startles'me. I wish, and yet 1 fear to know the height and
depth of this strange matter. I feel internally assured that when any new re-
vealmeits are'made concerning-the subject, they will confirm all our, suspicions.
" But in relation to{this box,-since we lost the Ranche I have not seen it, nor
do I know 'where it is kept; I{have not been so fortunate as to see what it con-
'tained, but I know that it opens by means of ra;complicated spring which has to
be pressed in a peculiar manner ; for I saw him open it once when he was not
awarethat I, was observing hitn. He used, formedy, to keep it concealed in a
portable desk."
Yes, and that desk was brought here, andit issomewhere in this building.
In atconiplishing my design, twoformidable diti0lties wilbave to be overcome :
First,'td-find the' desk, and then-to open it."
"I believe he was in the 1iabit, formerly, of -carrying the key about his person ;
in tbat case what can be done:?"
S we will trust to circumstances and our own ingenuity. And nowle- se
as'kwhat means the protr tedl absence of-ourevil genius, Manuel Hart?"
"Upon that subject I have had various suspicions. Perhaps his traitorcus de-
signs have been discovered."
TBefore Ramona had time to reply, Dorville had left his conceahnent'and ap

I

THE MAID OF THE RANCHE.
proached them. They were about to retreat to the convent in alarm, when- the
sound of hisvoice assured them of the identity of the individual.
"mow providential is this meeting," he said, grasping their hands 'warmly
"am so superstitious that I am prone to think that heaven has sent melere to
.work out its own-good purpo."
" Was it honorable, Mr. Dorville,"said Iris, "to listen to a conversation which
you must have known was not intended for the ears of a third person:?"
"4Results may grow out of this circumstance of which you can 'form no pos-
sible conception. Be not indignant, for 1 could 'not but have listened, if every
word had endangered my life. I willhasten to relieve a portionof your anxiety.
You need apprehend but little from Manuel Hart. He has been detected, tried
by a 'court-martial, finally convicted and sentenced to death, which adjndgment
would have been carried into execution, had not the faction to which'he belong-
ed overpowered the guard. one night, and rescued him from the grasp of' justice."
"But where is he now ?" inquired Iris.
" It is suspected that he has gone up the Brazos, for the purpose of taking
vengeance upon Noel Noon and Maurice harperr."
" And why are Noel Noon and Maurice Harper upon the Brazos, id not
with the' Hunters of the Border at Burleson's, camp ?" inquired Ramona.
" They are trying to gain some clue to your sudden disappearance," returned
Dorville,
Both the maidens colored,-and Dorville resumed in a deeper and more earnest
voice.
"'I have heard, with singular emotions, youb'remarks concerning' the subject
now paramount in your minds. Hasten to carryout your design. Find the
box of which you have spoken. If you cannot open it, take me'i to.your con-
fidence, and I will aid you faithfully and truly. Wonder not that I tam 'inter-
ested, for time will'explain the matter more perfectly."
"To us you are'-comparatively a stranger. We, have no means -of knowing
howfgr you are entitled to our confidence. : Accident has discovered what you
might otherwise never have known.  I trust you will at least respect -our'feelings
enough'to keep the subject a secret ?" said Iris, somewhat reproachfully.
" Iris, ask your own heart if.you can trust me, and seemwhat it will say? If
soul ever spoke to soul, you-know that mine responds -to-yours. Betray ou,
you feel that I cannot'; and-yet coMmnon -worldly prudence admonishes yu to
cautiousness. And now let me nsk, why you're here, and if you arecontent
and;happy                  en
"'I will tell you frankly;" replied Iris, after a pause, and then proceeded to re-
late all that had happened respecting Manuel Hart and' Captain Morales.
"It is' as 'I suspected," rejoined Dorville. "This is the dadiger of which I
warned you ; but the villain shall yet be baffled. Remain here and. be calh.
You-are and shall be;;from: this moment protected. Hard indeed:shall it fare
withhim who presumes to harm -a hair -of your. head. A shield ot strength
shall be thrown around you, through which your worst enemies cannot infiet a
wound.'* And then,"be :added, afidresing Iris, " let not the strange suspicions
which some unexpected disclosure has aroused, make you wretched. Soinething
tells one that you are nearer to a sblition'of the problem than you'imagins. Be
comforted, Harper has.not 'forgotten you, and Dorville -wilbe to you. more than
a brother. Pardon me for speaking of'the Virginian, but I know thatyotr heart
confesses'a tender interest in his welfare. Yes, you cennot mudhlongeridisguise
it from yourself, and it is-known already to the; watchful'eyes of IRateona: 1 a
'lie not confused, forit is nothing venial,:nor worse than foi your sister tohtallow
her truant thoughts-to cluster about honest 1oel Noon."
" Beware, Mr. Dorvilte!" said Ramoha, shaking her finger playfully. You
snust not discover all our secrets at once."


I

I

TAE MAID OF THERANCHE.

9'

.   TIuDE, MAID OF THE RANCHE.
Although words -like yours from other lips I might'deem bold and. presum.
ing, from you they excite no feeling of resentment. You walk so' naturally and
so ently tbrought e gan4en of my most sacred thoughts, that I almost feel that
you have a righthere."
yDorville made no rejoinder, but caught her hand, pressed it tenderly to. his
lips, and then turning, hurried from the grounds, leaped the wall and disappeared.
CHAPI'ER XVIII.
Oua hero and Noel Noon, after a long and fatiguing :ride reached Burleson's
camp. Harper's first impulse wasto inquire for Dorville; for his-interest in that
individual had increased much since the discovery of Manuel Hart's traitorous'
designs. He was about to seek him at'his tent when he was luckily spared the
trouble ; Dorville unexpectedly made his appearance. He manifested an ear-
nest desire to know th incidents of their journey to the Brazos, and the 'cause
of their delay.-
Maurice immediately gave a succit account of what is already -known to the
readeF.
"And you know nothing," said Dorville, "of the fate .of Manuel Hart and
Jack Lawless ?"-
Our hero assured him that it was out of his power to give him any informa-
tion on that subject, for his better nature had recoiled from the contemplation
of the field after the conflict, if conflict it could be called. He had chosen to
remain in ignorance in regard to the extent.of the destruction of life that''must
haveresulted from the continuous volleys- of the Lipans. He gave it as his
opinion, however, that but few of the faction had escaped to: tell the tale of
their disaster.-
" Bad' men," said Dorville, "do not die easily, and I doubt not but Hart and
Jack Lawless are still among the living, maturing plans of vengeance. But, to
change.the subject, I have important newsfor you. I have.discovered whither
your lady-birds have flown."
Noel Noon, who, hitherto, had not been giving much Attention to the conver-
sation, instantlymanifested incontestable evidence of interest.
" Upon the San Miguel, just below; there is a convent much fallen into decay
and disuse, and there Rathburn and his daughters may be found."
Having made this announcement, Dorville'proceeded to detail with consider.
able minuteness the manner-in which he had made the discovery ; withholding,
however, everything relating to the interview to which he had been a party in
the convent grounds.
The strange suspicions that had so agitated his thoughts were riot referred to,
for he prefered thattime should make its own proper developments without
being anticipated. It is true that he had heard but a few words concerningjthe
secrets that weighed down the spirit-of Iris, but sometimes even a word may
sere to unlock the -profoundest mystery. That potent key Dorville now be-
lieved }he had in hispedsession.. Although matters of the most absorbing, in-
terest to him were -involved, he kept, as he :had ever done, the history of his
fears, hopes and expectations deeply buried in his being. His strong and com-
manding mind, disciplined by vicissitudes and sorrow, had learned how- to dis-
guise its emotions,:and conceal its thoughts.
aMaurice looked at his face, now more serious than he had ever .beforeseen
it he. fancied that "its lineaments strangely reminded him of : one upon whose
beauty'she had gazed:iwith admiration ; kbut hewas far, very fat from entertain-
ing the most vague and distant suspicion of the singular conceptions and antici-
pations that were passing through his brain.
As our hero surveyed his manly figure and expressive countenance, a pang .of
jealousy disturbed the current of his reflections. Though feeling somewhat

grakful for The efforts he had made in behalf of the maidens, he could not banish
all seliih considerations ; for'he had, in some inexplicable manner made a dis-
covery that Iris Rathburn was necessary to his happiness, and he feared that a
man of Dorville's insinuating'address,' agreeable manners, and strong good sense,
might prove a most dangerous rival, notwithstanding the disparity of ages.
Noon now inquired if it were practicable for them to visit the convent ; re-
marking to the effect that Morales might gine them farther trouble, and that
Manuel Hart, if he had survived the vengeance of the LIpans, would still make
efforts to put his villanons designs into' execution. Dorville after meditating a
moment expressed his willingness to accompany them to the spot, as soon.as it
was dark enough for such an undertaking.
Accordingly, all the' preliminaries' being arranged, when the proper hour ar-
rived, they left camp to carry out their intentions.
When they had approached within sight of the convent,-Dorville went for-
ward to'reconnoitre, and learn ,if any additional precautionshad been taken since
his last visit, and our hero and his, friend patiently awaited his return. - At the
expiration of half an 'hour, they were alarmed by hearing the rapid discharge of
-five or six pistol shots.
"There goes Dorville's revolver 1" exclaimed Noon, starting to his feet. "Let-
us run to his assistance."
Harper and Noel immediately ran toward the scene of the disturbance. Upon
emerging from the clump of trees where; they had taken shelter, the exact state
of the case became apparent. A company of 'Mexicans had pitched their tents
in close proximity to theconvent, and Dorville had unfortunately been discover-
ed by the guard, and it was now too late to rescue him, for he had already been
overwhelmed by numbers and secured, while the 'soldiers were still pouring out
of their tents like bees from an-agitated hive.
c"Too late !' too late I" muttered Noon. " There is nothing that we can-do
now to help him, and I'ni afraid that it'll go bard with him, for he'has probably
done some inischief with his revolver, which they wont feel disposed to
forgive."   .s-
"T perceive," said Harper, " that we seem to be cut off from the possibility of
rendering hire any assistance, but it's against my nature to be compelled toaban-
dona friend to the, cruelty of such enemies without making an effort:to nave
him. I think we ought to remain here a short time: and watch the progress o1
events.t' "We can't do no-good," responded Noel, regretfully.
" We can at least  assure ourselves if he is executed upon the spot or not."
"1That's'true ; but it wouldn't be strange if they marched him right out a fea
paces in front, and shot him down as though he wasn't a human cretur."
"No'," said Maurice, " they will not do that, according to appearances."
"There's no tellin'; you see they're consultin'.about something' now, and i
shouldn't wonder if that tall chap with the jaunty coat, was giving anorder 'to
that effect now."
" The merciful God forbid I I do not think that I can stand here and see
him murdered, without makinglan effort to save him., See I-they have drawn
up twelve men in lin e,and in that prompt and'decisive way that characters
military executions.
"If there was time," said Noon, "to go after the Hunters of'the Border.'
"1There's nothing like trying," returned Harper. "I.will hasten back to the
spotwhere we left our, horses, mount and ride with all speed for assistance
Our -brave lads will scatter, you fellows as the whirlwind scatters the dust.?
"Perhaps it would be wise for you to try it, for you see they don't appear to
be in any great hurry about doing their bloody work. If be was only shrewd
enough to gain time in 'sbme way how easy 'twould be to save him. " Look!t
there goes a priest 1 i Upon my soui, I believe he's playin thiatgame, and if he'lh
contrive to be: long enough at confession, he'll escape the disagreeable ceremony
tilit' intended to come 'afterwards."

I


I

Tom MAID O' TUE R       cHlS.
Harper did not stay to see- more, but'hurried-to getinto the aaddles quick
as possible: In a moment after, Npel heard the Aefce Glatt rirg of his horse's
ho.of:" The :foresters remained .dpreg   theqm-st erieli;aspeuse. Time spy4
rapidly on- Sometimeshe looked anxiouslyand nervously toysds the scene p
the foreground, listened intently!fpr some indication of apprgeoltiag aid,:or hgy'
ed his head in his hands to lhut otkt the contemplation ofis l'friend's - rxa
fortune
'is fuental agony grew every' instant more intolerable. 55il sweal frorehia
recent illness, his xcitement affected him more palpably  hidrieathing became
qick and-labored, and.the:perspiration rolled ingreatdrops from his forehe d.
Soon he dared not raise his eyes,and expeeted every instant Ito hear the diseharge
of fire.arris -the knell of Dorville's  ath; but th9 fatal yolley did not burst'
Upon his ears. He heard the low murmuringof the riverthebirds iprovising:w
their songs, the fluttering of the leaves,,and;the distant :hum of voicesA
Uniablellonger toendure this suspense,;he walkedhaek Itowhere is horse was
fastened, without venturing. toascanthe proceedings ,at the;convept. As hr.
threw the thril over the animal's nek, a dull, heavy,:;and siAggular souqd sent A.
thrill of expectation to his heart. -
the iknew' that= the Hanters of the Bordet hadbeen warned and 'were nai
thundering to.the rescue. The stout woodsman brushed an honest tearfronh.biL
eye,acd vaulted into the saddle..Sputringshishorse down the rivsera few yards
a glories spectacle:met hisexpectant vision. TheTexanborderers, headed b.
Lorrimer:and Harper, were advancinglike the rushing winds. ;There was sti-
a chan :orfl or ille, On and on they e ne with the impetuosityof the:sweep
ing  avalanche.      .         4~r. T-n   -'"         '  " "f  r
A.reFwe too late ?"asked Lorriner;checking his;speed at1the sideof Noel.
"No, no, there'is yet hope and an opportunity fot'.v,engeance. Advance sloa -
ly to yonder lhanp of trees, and then charge with all the speed and powerJ i -
maniu a;6horse can put forth."
The arrangement is good," said Harper,,Whose face was very pale, alhtkug,,:
moment before it was flushed with excitement.
MWe.tall bpobliged t leave t to the imaginatiorpofthe reader to picturee
sensatieds -of-the :borderersuasitheyfellV into order attke postoni which .a.
had indicktedas bein 'te p roperone. Thecelump:oftreesshirlded be  - froiz.
view-~oders were givesi in whispers, and hurriedly exeeuted. Pach man hold-
ing the bridle firmly - inne band, grasped a polished bladein. the-other.  .11
we ready foIth~r nse. uithe frot of this phaam o ;hardy ad inpatient
men, were idrrimernahd our hero:: :The olduwnterseemed well nigh transforni-
ed. Sitting:ereet upon hi shorseheappeared'a veteranbwarrior, with nerves as
firm-as steel; .nd arms. clothed .:with an.athletiestrength,. Nor was our "ero
less conspicuoua for the boldness of hiisbearing, and the haters could not") elp
drawing.;comparisons between himand hrt, their: traitorobs lieutenant, who
the had unwisely been influenced to choose as an officer.  ..f
.  1neing rapidly at-hi eoinmnand, Lorrinter perceived that the, decisive no-
ment'hadcoine, and:waged his sword as asignalsfor the charge.., The.Eun,ters:
ofthe:Border struck theirrowelsbome. The horses snorted, reared,,and leaped,
forward in a body, making the ground tremble to their'furious bounds., Imme--
diatelythe Mlexican canp wasrevealed, and but little'order prevailed there.
The scenein thefoiegrouhd was onto madden tho Texans; Dorville, withhis
arms pinioned,,and diiested of hiscoat; waspthe first object that natural pre.
seated, fo1he ocnpied a positiondirectly in front.  Beside him stood a .priest,'
with*4ir   ainhis hand, while third person hel. a handkerchief, which he es-
sayeda~to bidover tpisoner'seyes. The latter evidently was, in the act;of
rejecting the;overturo ,' t   ,.doubtiesssthat -he.had conrage enough t4 4
death  wit ibhs'y sop r gj few horses aac3Iled,  M tt * ltheirbridles slpj
wnre'seeai Athe;ter of the i came pment  The;elatter cf many irohool.nd  .
the first admonition to the Mexicans of an approach gfoe., The Mexicien

THL MAID OF THE RANCHE.                      pg
made desperate rush to the horses. Captain Morales among the rest.. But
scarcely a man had reached the saddle, before the Hunters ofthe' Border had
struck the confused mass likp 1resistless hurricane that pmostrats mll in it y.
The sound of conflict was briel' adr4died away a nsuddenly.as it bea .. ' 'he
living sued for quartrgand it ws accorded. *Irpr was the first to leap from
h's$horse to Dorvitle's side. With his soiled swor4 e severed his bonds, and
congratulated him.ng nis escape, without a singlegeeurrence to those pangs of
jalousy.whicthad so recently disturbed him..
-oel Noon came and -touched himupon the arm. ' .niut e Iart, ' he said in
low-voice, "and his reckless associate Jack Lawless will trouble us no more.
'the first is mortally wounded,, anl th'e la~talready dead  Hart says he can't
die altogether easy unless he says a word or two toyou."  Without-rnaking
any rejoinder, Harper,' )orviile, andLorrimer followed Noel. .a  ie'Nart was
lyingupon the ground, with a soldier's knapsack' under ,isbead, which was
frightfully wounded by a heavy sword cut.Ia turned   glassy eyes toward
our hero. " I escaped," he-said, "the vengeance of 'arpah, "that I mght ful-
fil my destiny and die here. You see that I have got my dlehth, and can't stay
lrigikere. I feel that lifeisleaving ipe,,and I havni' got any great expecta-
tions'of a future state. .I 's'pose a good man might die verywell; but you see
with'me it's a different thing. It's dreadful, very dreadful, forniy sis come np
like an .army of spectres and stareme in the face. Don't wonder to hear me
talk so much better nor common,,because dyi9' kinder sharpens my perceptions.
Hart paused, and the last tears that he was ever to shed moistened his ghastb.
cheeks., "1I want everybody to know," he-resumed, trying to rise on his elbow,
" how hard it is for a bad man:to die. I think so fast that my whole life seems
to -stand -out before nie, and I can see all its' aets. But I'm failin' fast, and
mustn't lose the chance of sayin' what's upermost in my mind. Ive wronged
you, Mr.Harper, and slandered you, and .I hope you'll try and not think on it
arter I'm laid in a traitor's grave. I. have a revelation to make that'lI kind o'
counterbalance'some of my plottin'. I shall astonish you  ihwhat I'n 'goin'
tosay, and when it's said, I hope ia'll.take off some of this load that's. press'
me; ddwp, The real name of the man 'who passesb ythe name of Rathisurn, is
Ritchings ; and Iris is not his daughter, ,but :his niece. Her own father was
lost at sea while she was an infant, and her mother died'before she was two
years old. Theylived in New, Orleans, and I' was there and knew all ,aut it.
Mrs. Dalton, the mother of Iris, was possessed of mdh propertyin, her own
right, and willed it all to her only child, appointing Ritchings her guardian and
executor. I was a servant in: her family then, and knew what happened, and
what I'm gom' to tell. The man who calls hiunmelf Rathburn got possession of
his sister's will, and altered it to suit himself, bribing the notary to assist him.
I worked-myself into -the secret by listening at the key-hole of an adjoining.
room. I let the thing go on.because I knew that Illtchings would'be willing
to buy my silence at a high figure. I was then but a mere lad, but old enough
to be cunning , vicious, and unpricipled. I succeeded well in my plans, and-ex
torted sums of money from him at different times. Soon. after the'reading of
the will, gathering up all the wealth thus unjustly sequred, the left that partof
the-country, thiukin' no loubtiid himself of :me. .le took Iris with him,
and passed himself ,off for hers father by the name le goes by now. Bt'
tracked him, and he couldn't shake me off. His wife died about the time of his
departure from New Orleans, leavln' .ne daughter, Ramona, about the same age
of Iris. So-there was nobody to meddle with his plans ; consequently he was
very successful, and the two girls grew up as sisters. The greatest drawback
upon the happiness of Rathburn, was my continual doggings ; for in fact I
literally lived on him, and kept him in fear by repeated threats. When he
settled up in Brazos river, he thought, he had completely outwitted me ; but I
scented him like a hound, and Iris, havia' grown to a pretty young woman, ]

i


/4  .

10                   THE MAID OF THE IJANCHE.
resolved to marry her; and, should have succeeded had not providence raised up
friends to protget the less orphan. But it'a alt over now,'and .death is
knockii9 at the'door o ' heart.
dart paus6d throijgh e hausfiob, and ; iffn4 Rauiua  attrzeted to the'spot,
hadbereatp1 4 ~hi ton
des red ,  Q      n e m nio'ng of alt tli'tad'otw       a       slowly
peedhis.c    eyes/'wiepin hieard the soft teo"of t-   a
- "'oa must  her," he hed, Speaking with difilIty, "'thatshe fin't Rath
buin's dau  t"  Bef'#a   frai° t had time to add more,,loiMlle sprang for*trd
andcaught  is to his bosor. " Mychild 1 my'child !" he exclaimed. "'Nature
has ogg;issertehe h authorit; and she  cannot longer be misunderstood. Look
at ne-rOebniceone-=   rni ynor father I  "-Is your name Dalton 7" asked
Iris. "Yea, yes, mydaugliterI M y, name is Henry Dalton, and you bear your
dead mother's mne. Thereport of m  lbss at'sea was unfounded. I was east,
however, upn at inhospith ile shore, from whence I could not escape. When
at length Prodideboe set'a friendly' sailtotake me from hence, years had ela y
sed,working their various transformations.° When reachedd New Orleans,  my
wife was o'mode, and ifoielnea uiything conerning the'fate of my child.
I sueceeged, '$nadly, it gaining asie intelligenCe respecting the matter frogm- a
ip'iestwho'had attended t6 death bed of the notary who' had made out the aill
by which my wife had conveyedher property'to ouerchild.
"trengtheued by this information, I-set out ih quest of the villain who- had
wronged one so'helpless, and to discover, if possible, my;daughter. I cannot re
late  e  myaentures ; but this happy reunion testifies he comnplete'has been
my $ Cees..
Whliiseris tnar l   selsible in the arms of the parent, who had thus, as it
were arif enioa tie  ad, Itamona welt onto state that the box, to :hich re-
ferences has before-been made, had been opened, and all that Dorville had said
was confirnied by the papers therein contained.
At that ro il an expression of satisfaction passed over the featuresof Dart;
he njade.a stron  Ofaort to speak oncenore, but his voice failed, aifd with scarce.
ly a streggleheepired.                     *     *       *            *
Kind reader, doarstory closess  It were a work of supererogation to dwell up-
on e happy sce   that ensued. The father and daughter became all in all to
eah other. 1athburnhumbly confessed his err rs, made'restitntioh of his ill
gotten wealth, andwas forgiven. Iris and Harper concluded, after a due laps
of tipe, to travel amicabl  ogetbcrlifeas devious'road'; and Noel Noon and Ra-
mbna,;gb etne prdces probably wolf-understood by them,:arrived at precisely the
- saine onunlusio    Ionest'alays pocupied a conspicouus paceat the domestic
firesideYof ro hero, and is, in fact, a great favorite to thisday; ;although hege.
gins to give evidences of "dvan'e4 age; lut not ithstan4ing his fidelity and
good nature'neve* fail  The Hunters of the Bbrder=did good service during the
struggle of the Texansforindependence, apd Maurice acts till the close of the
war as'one of 'their Drodilnent.at d most efficient leaders.- Waripatll, the Lipan
chief, reiralneda stannchfribna to the characterswh had figured in our story,
and lis mem'is'y is cherished by them with feelings of gratitude.- 'Lorrimer eo-
tinnes to bunt- o the Teian borer: We capunot saf that +Meltiah Moss ever
lly"reformed.; buthe"aniended'his life ihisany'important particulars.
bRegplatotrvand Moderators have long since  asked to afilict the country
a  .awI orier and justice prevail universally -ti the regions of the Lone- Star
t.   T KK    E N    '.


  
             
         
       
   
