
    ----CITATION----
        M'Keehan, Hattia.. The Life and Trials of a Hoosier Girl .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7162
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE LIFE AND TRIALS OF A HOOSIER GIRL. 
             
            
               (HATTIA MCKEEHAN.) AUTHOR OF "LIBERTY OR DEATH-THE MOTHER'S SACRIFICE." 
            ALSO, THE LOVER'S REVENGE, AND THE PHILOSOPHY OF LOVE. 
            
               NEW YORK: 
               PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR.
             
            1860. 
          
          
             
            PREFACE. 
            THE Reader will find in the following pages a brief but "o'er true tale" of a loving woman's deep wrongs. It is the old story-trusting woman and heartless man. Why is it ever thus? Will our sex, deceived and deserted as it so often is, never learn wisdom from experience? 
            Shall the record ever be the same? Will no hand be uplifted to strike the heartless betrayer to the earth, or can none of his victims call to her aid the assistance of a graphic pen, and while narrating the story of her own wrongs, let them serve as a beacon to warn the unsuspecting and innocent maiden of the perils that lurk in the path that is avoided by the feet of those who are content to seek happiness in its accustomed haunts? 
            Finding none ready to vindicate our wrongs, I, a "Hoosier Girl," have essayed the task, and trust that my story may serve as a warning to all who are so foolish as to "marry in haste and repent at leisure." 
            
               HATTIA. 
               December 22d, 1859.
             
          
          
             
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               THE LIFE AND TRIALS OF A HOOSIER GIRL. 
               My First Sorrow, 11
                
               The Step-mother, 13
                
               My Marriage and the Death of my Husband, 14
                
               Hamilton Moore, 16
                
               My First Visit to the Coast, 18
                
               The Death of my Only Brother, 20
                
               My First Attempt at Authorship, 22
                
               My Visit to Philadelphia, 28
                
               Selling Almanacs, 28
                
               The Intelligence Office, 29
                
               My Adventures in New York, 33
                
               Meeting an Enemy, 34
                
               Conclusion, 35
                
             
             
               THE LOVER'S REVENGE. 
               The Old Soldier, 38
                
               The Maiden's Signal, 39
                
               The Declaration, 43
                
               The Secret, 49
                
               The Conspiracy, 55
                
               The Love Letter-The Discovery, 60
                
               A Catastrophe, 63
                
               The Betrothal Cancelled, 68
                
               The Discovery, 70
                
               The Lottery and the Lucky Number, 72
                
             
             
               THE PHILOSOPHY OF LOVE. 
               Love Defined, 73
                
               Characteristics of Woman's Love, 80
                
               Jealousy, its Nature and Origin, 83
                
               Love at First Sight, 89
                
               Absence strengthens Love, 92
                
               Danger of Marrying without Love, 95
                
               Marriage without affection, 99
                
             
          
       
      
         
            The life and trials of a Hoosier girl 
             
                
                
               THE LIFE AND TRIALS OF A HOOSIER GIRL. 
                
                  CHAPTER I. 
                  MY FIRST SORROW. 
                  IT was a sad and gloomy day in midwinter; the heavens were black with frowning clouds, and fast-descending snow-flakes were casting a pure white mantle over the earth. I was then a child, and the gloominess of nature without corresponded well with my sad heart, for death had that day visited our humble abode and clasped in his icy arms the dearest object of my affection. 
                  My own dear mother, whose place in the family circle I felt never more could be filled, had that day closed her eyes to all terrestrial things, and was about to be carried to the lone and silent tomb. I did not weep, for there hung a sorrow upon my young heart too oppressive for tears: it was no juvenile bereavement, to be forgotten in a day, but a lasting sorrow. 
                  From the day I lost a mother's guiding hand, a mother's sweet counsel, my trials and difficulties accumulated. But the darkest cloud has a silvery edge: I still had a kind and ever-loving father left to guide and protect me, and to him I owe all that hath made life sweet and hopeful upon earth. 
                  I was born in Madison, Indiana, the eldest of five children-three sisters and an only brother. At the opening of my story I was ten years of age, and so far my life had been all sunshine, all smiles; but a change awaited me-ah, yes! a sad change for me-and in looking back over the past, I could almost wish myself a child again; but it never falls to the lot of mortals here to have perpetual sunshine, for life must be overcast sometimes with dark clouds, and to-night while seated all alone in my room, far from the friends that I love, I am forcibly struck with the thought of how little I knew in my childhood's days of what life was made up. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER II. 
                  THE STEP-MOTHER. 
                  IT was a bright August morning, when my father ushered in to our home a stepmother. She was beautiful, but cold. She met me courteously; I tried to love her, but I could not. 
                  The contrast was so great between her and my mother, that my eyes would fill with tears when the name of mother was pronounced. My own dear mother was ever kind, ever loving, ever ready to lend a helping hand to the distressed. She had a warm, confiding nature that drew every one to her side. 
                  My stepmother did not love me-why should I strive longer to love one who repulsed me in every action? As I ripened into womanhood the more cold and distant we became to each other. When we met it was with a cold "Good morning," and a still more icy "Good night." These meetings were seldom, except in the breakfast-room, for we avoided meeting in the parlor. 
                  My father I loved with no common love. He was ever the same kind, loving father; but oh, how it pained his heart to see those that he loved so estranged! Thirteen years have passed since she entered our home; but greater sorrows have I passed through since then. I can brave disappointments now. I ask not from this world a tear-its mocking sympathy I scorn. 
                  The world is full of disappointments, and happy are those who do not seek to foresee the future until the providence of God unfolds it to us and gives us grace and strength to endure whatever it may bring. I love to dream over the past, though my life has been strewed with thorns. Yes, it is a melancholy pleasure to think of loving friends at rest-of lights and shadows-for all have had some bright spots in their experience, some kind word and loving friend to remember. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER III. 
                  MY MARRIAGE AND THE DEATH OF MY HUSBAND. 
                  IT was a lovely morning in June. Hours pass unheeded, but at length hearts well-nigh hopeless were cheered by a change; and ere the sun had sunk to rest, spirits were made glad-consciousness returned. Pale as marble sat Albert Lilly. He was the only son of a wealthy planter in the State of Louisiana, nursed in luxury and wealth, and upon his introduction to the reader had just returned from a European voyage. I had scarce reached my teens when we first met. We loved, our vows were plighted, and after an absence of three years he returned to claim me as his bride. At that period he fell ill, and his life was despaired of; but at length the fever passed off, and soon we were married and started for his home in the South. We went by railroad as far as St. Louis, and from there by a steamer, which brought us to our sunny home. 
                  In my beautiful southern home I thought I should be happy; but alas, disappointment has ever been my lot: 
                         
                           "I never loved a tree or flower, 
                           But 'twas the first to fade away." 
                        
                     
                   
                  For three months we were happy-oh, how happy! but it was not destined to last. One evening, about six o'clock, a single horseman rode up to the gate, alighted, ascended the steps of our mansion, and rung the bell. How my heart sunk within me when I heard my husband's name pronounced. He was dying. I hastened to his side; but oh, how changed! 
                  The death damp was on his brow, but the old familiar and most beautiful smile still hovered about hid lips. The message was delivered none too soon. He was going fast. One gasp, one struggle, and he had safely passed the river of death, and life's heaven was open. I knelt sorrowfully by my husband's corpse, and poured out a prayer for comfort and support in that all-trying hour. Vain is the help of man, and never more truly is this realized than in such dark hours. 
                  Great was the excitement in the city of New Orleans when it was known that Albert Lilly had lost his life in a duel. 
                  Deep and almost universal sympathy reigned throughout the State. 
                  My husband had been insulted by H. Moore, of F--t, Ky., and being a hot-blooded southerner he challenged him and lost his life. I knew nothing of the duel until it was over. He left me that morning as usual for the city. 
                  Our house was some five miles from New Orleans, and when the tidings came they fell upon me like a thunderbolt. 
                  None can sympathize with or know the deep sorrow that filled my heart, but those that have passed through the same trials. I, a wife and widow at the early age of sixteen summers, could then repeat with the poet: 
                         
                           "It's past, I see it in my dreams; 
                           No more with hope the future beams; 
                           Love, hope, joy, adieu, 
                           Could I but say remembrance, too." 
                        
                     
                   
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER IV. 
                  HAMILTON MOORE. 
                  ONE month after my husband's death, Hamilton Moore called and begged an interview-the man that I could not forgive-the man that had murdered my husband. 
                  I met him in the parlor, cold but politely; he approached me, took my hand, and began with all the deception he was master of to make love to me. I drew back in astonishment, exclaiming- 
                  "Sir, have you come here to insult me? Begone, sir-leave my house this instant, or I will ring for a servant!" 
                  "Ring, madam, as quick as it pleases your majesty. I am master here, and have come to offer you my hand and heart. I love you-will make you happy. I own every inch of ground-this house, the furniture and all are mine; I have a mortgage on it that you cannot pay-even the jewels you wear are not yours!" 
                  The truth flashed upon me-I was penniless! And I must act. For a moment I stood gazing upon the man I hated, and then bade him a cold good morning. 
                  He rushed after me, caught my hand and said- 
                  "Act not so madly, I beseech you!" 
                  "Sir, sooner would I become the slave of the cruelest taskmaster than become your willing slave!" 
                  "It is not a slave, madam, that I wish to make of you, but a loved and cherished wife. Remember, a rich lover now kneels at your feet!" 
                  "There you can kneel, and kiss the ground if you choose." 
                  "Do you not know that I have a mortgage on your property?" 
                  "True, you say you have a mortgage on my property, but you have none on my person. Unhand me, villain!" 
                   
                  He looked into my face with the most perfectly calm composure, and said- 
                  "Madam, I have for you a devoted tenderness-I love you with unspeakable love, and desire, above all things, to make you happy." 
                  "If you love me, leave this house," I said, for I was becoming alarmed. He retreated a step and said- 
                  "I will leave, but a watch will be kept over you. You cannot quit these premises, and ere the sun hath sunk behind the western hills you shall be my bride. I swear it! I will not be foiled." 
                  Saying these words, and leaving me with a cold shudder, he took his leave. As soon as I could collect my thoughts, I began to look round me, to see what was the best to be done. I called the carriage, and drove off at a rapid rate. When about two miles from the house, six men came up to the carriage and commanded the driver to halt. At that moment a party of gentlemen drove up and saved me. As their number was double that of my assailants, I arrived safely in New Orleans and took the first steamer for home. After a voyage of a week, I stood once more in my father's house-my childhood's home. 
                  "We will leave Moore now, and speak of him again. We will pass over two years, during which time I taught a school in the city of --. At the end of two years I had about three hundred dollars. I had nothing to keep me at home. Two of my sisters were laid in the cold earth, and my oldest sister was married; my brother had gone abroad, and I thought I would travel as long as my money would last. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER V. 
                  MY FIRST VISIT TO THE COAST. 
                  IT was a beautiful morning in May when I took passage on one of the splendid steamers at Madison, Indiana, bound for Pittsburg, Pennsylvania. How my heart bounded as I gazed on the magnificent scenery on either side of the broad Ohio. 
                  We were nearing the port of Cincinnati, when I heard the cry, "Help! help! for God's sake, help!" The life-boat was lowered, and a beautiful young lady was lifted from the water. She was as lovely a creature as I ever met; her dark curls flowed profusely over a neck of snowy whiteness. I learned her name was Maud D--, of Wheeling, Virginia. At that city we left her, and proceeded on our way. Nothing of importance transpired until we landed in Pittsburg, when I found my pockets had been picked-my money was gone. I said nothing, but thought I would keep up appearances as long as possible. I ordered my trunk to be sent to a hotel, for I could proceed on my journey no further without money. At the breakfast table I took up a paper and read "Agents Wanted." I had little difficulty in finding the house. After going through a process of questions, whether I had ever sold a book, who for, and when, I was told that I could have a trial. When I thought all was ready to begin my book-selling, I was told that I must advance thirty dollars. Thus was I met at the very threshold with difficulty. But I bethought myself of a gold watch-my husband's parting gift-that I had refused to part with under all circumstances. I took it to a pawnbroker, pawned it for one-fourth of its value, and expended it for religious books; went out into the community, thinking of nothing but success. 
                  I walked three days; talked myself hoarse; sold one book for half what it cost. I went to a minister: he suggested I should exchange them for novels. I did so; it worked like a charm; I visited all the New England States, stopping a day or two in each village disposing of my books. Six months after I went into the book business I had, over expenses, two hundred dollars in my possession. I thought of visiting the South, to gaze once more on my husband's grave. I remained in the South through the winter, when I returned once more to my father in Indiana, where I was received with open arms by that dear, good man. Ah! and to-night, while many hundred miles away, my heart turns to the place I once called home, and yearns for the friends I loved in my childhood days. Oh, happy, happy days of childhood! cheery as the hours of May, they go as do the May days, with their flowers, leaves and songs. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER VI. 
                  THE DEATH OF MY ONLY BROTHER. 
                  WE will pass over some years. It is now 1858. 
                  Friday, March 19, a calm, beautiful morning, when the Pacific-that beautiful little steamer-hove in sight, and was soon in Portland, Ky. A tall and rather handsome man stepped lightly from the boat, and was seen wending his way to a cottage on the hill-side. He rings-the door is thrown open. Ah! who is it that clasps his hand, and exclaims, "Come at last!" That was my own dear brother and his betrothed; they were seated in the parlor, planning for the future. He arose to leave, but still he lingers. Why is it?-some sad presentiment of evil appears to hover around. What can it be? Was he never more to gaze on her face after his departure? Lizzy arose, passed out of the parlor into her own room, and seated herself by the window, and in five minutes more the whole town was hurrying to the scene of action. A deadly struggle was visible on the pier where the Pacific lay. For one instant the panic-stricken girl stood, and then rushed with horror to the wharf. Heavens and earth! what a sad spectacle met her appalled gaze! It froze the blood in her veins. She saw the one she had parted with a few moments before, dying, a ghastly gash across his breast, and his pale, ashy face in the last agonies of death. "O my God, my God! who hath done this?" she cried. She raised him in her arms-he fell back-he was dead. He only lived one moment. God forgive the man that did it. My brother was murdered by Johnston, of L--, Ky. His body was placed in the vault to await the arrival of his friends; but, alas! we received not that sad intelligence until he had been interred for one week. He was my only brother. We had not met for years. In one week more he was to claim a beautiful bride. Oh the agonies of that dreadful day, when the news reached us. 
                   
                  It was Tuesday morning. A single carriage was seen wending its way to the lonely graveyard. One pale woman eat in the carriage that followed the hearse. She was the only mourner present at that sad funeral. Why mourn? Is not death a common doom? We all most die; that argument, though true, is a poor consolation for present grief. If there was aught to love in life, there is something to mourn in death. Speak out sad, mourning heart; one by one we are passing to another world, my friends are all passing away, while I am left to battle with the cold and selfish world. 
                         
                           The midnight stars are gleaming 
                           Upon his silent grave 
                           And my heart is sad and lonely 
                           For the one I could not save. 
                        
                         
                           The cloud of grief is pressing, 
                           So dismal, dark and deep- 
                           Oh, blame me not for weeping, 
                           I have no brother now. 
                        
                         
                           No brother now to love me, 
                           With love sincere and true- 
                           No brother to caress me, 
                           As he was wont to do. 
                        
                         
                           He was my only brother, 
                           The idol of my heart- 
                           Oh, blame me not for weeping, 
                           I have no brother now. 
                        
                         
                           Our best and brightest treasure 
                           Has passed from earth away, 
                           Like leaves before the autumn blast, 
                           That wither and decay. 
                        
                     
                   
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER VII. 
                  MY FIRST ATTEMPT AT AUTHORSHIP. 
                  I FELT sad and lonely after parting with so many friends. I thought I would turn any attention to writing, make money, and travel. After writing two months, I put it in the form of a little book, and called it "Liberty or Death." I met with unbounded success. In three months I had made five hundred dollars over expenses. I travelled in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Indiana. I was never more happy in my life. The papers were full of puffs-notices of the "Hoosier girl's" success, the "live Hoosier girl," and so forth. I, of course, felt flattered. I knew it was not the merit of the book, for it was but a common one compared with the literature of the day. I was persevering; I would and must make money. I received invitations to visit cities, villages, and country, and every place of amusement when I arrived. I felt that I was living in another world. I had no time to indulge in melancholy reflections or get lonely; every day found me in a different city or town, selling from two to three hundred copies per day. I visited Pittsburg, Pa., where my sister resided. I was delighted to meet my only sister and her beautiful children. Aby, the eldest, is a sweet little girl of five summers-a dear, darling child. I spent a week in that smoky city, and returned to Ohio, the State that I so much love and admire. 
                  It was evening when I arrived in Steubenville, my heart thrilling high with happiness. 
                  After tea, I went down to the drawing-room. A gentleman came in and seated himself by the window, and entered into conversation with me. His gentle tones came to me like a spirit borne on angels' wings. I shall never forget that voice while memory lasts. Oh, how my pulse wildly throbbed while listening to the music of his voice! 
                  How often, in the hush of solitude, does it visit me; the holy accents, like the low whisperings or distant murmuring of some gentle rill, come stealing sweetly over my heart. Oh, God! had we never met I would have still been happy, for my heart was free. Men are false deceivers; they win, and then cast lightly aside the hearts they have won. 
                  For a week I lingered in the place; then taking my leave, visited a distant city, with a promise from my new acquaintance that he would soon follow me. We were engaged.
                   
                  Harry, as I shall henceforth call him, soon followed me, and we were married. He said it would injure the sale of my book, and as I thought so myself, it was kept a secret. We went down to a city in Ohio, and remained three weeks, during which he was kind, even loving, the same gentle Harry-and I was only too happy to live in his smiles. I gave readings, sold my book, and made a great deal of money, always, of course, handing it over to my husband. 
                  We lived very happily until July, 1859, when he informed me he wished me to make a trip to Michigan and Illinois to sell my book. I consented to do so, leaving all my business, money, plates of my book, and all, in his hands. 
                  On the 4th of July I started from Cincinnati, came to Indianapolis, and from there through to Terra Haute, Indiana. 
                  Now for my experiences in Illinois and Michigan. It was evening when I first made my appearance in Paris, Ill. By the way, I had taken a young lady with me from the capital, and was trying to teach her to sell "Liberty or Death." When the iron horse stopped, we were met by a "sucker" with "Do you want a buss?" I asked him who there was to buss me. He made me understand that it was an omnibus; if I wanted a place to stay all night, I could get in and come down to the tavern, as they would keep me as cheap as anybody would. I handed him my basket, told Mary to take a seat in the omnibus, and I would see to my trunks. In a few moments we were all seated, and away we went for the "tavern," as the boy called it. At the door we were met by an old man, with- 
                  "Do you want a room? How long do you want to stay? Have you got a trunk? If you hain't, we take the money in advance, before we give you your supper." 
                  I told him I had trunks and plenty of money, handing him a bill, for I was tired and wanted my room. The old man gave us the best room, and some corn bread and pork for supper, with a promise that we should have a nice breakfast. 
                  I staid in that village a day and a half. From there I went to Charleston, sending Mary in advance to have bills posted, as I intended to give a reading. I was greeted in that place in pretty much the same way. Indeed, it is almost impossible for a lady to travel in Illinois alone; unless she has the nerve of a man it is useless to try. 
                  We sold some fifty dollars' worth of tickets for my reading. We were told by some of the citizens that it would be impossible to read, as so many had tried and could not succeed; but as I am one that never gives up, I told them I would attend to that part myself. So I did. On the appointed evening the Court-house was crowded-filled to overflowing. I ascended the stage and commenced reading. About fifty little boys were seated on the front seat. I read until I came to the first pause; they commenced ringing bells, blowing horns, shouting, screaming, and singing. I sat down; when all was quiet I read on; they applauded me in the same style. I sat down the second time; the noise ceased. I arose and appealed to them and their parents, but in vain-the worse it grew. What could I do? At last I broke through the crowd, which let me out, then rushed after me, with the words ringing in my ears, "Give us back our money;" but that I did not intend to do. On I went to the hotel, with about fifty at my side and in advance of me. When I arrived at the hotel, it was to find my door locked, and my poor Mary in hysterics. I wanted to know of the landlord what it all meant. I was informed that he could keep no person in his house who was the cause of so much excitement. I then told him that I thought he should have got used to it by this time, as it was a common occurrence in that heathenish place. I commanded him to give up the key; he said he was afraid of a mob. I I told him then to let them come, I was ready for any that might make their appearance. I went up to my room, told Mary to sleep a few hours, and I would keep watch and sleep the after part of the night. I seated myself by a window, after barring the door well with an iron bar. Nothing was heard; all was as still as death until about two o'clock, when I heard footsteps approaching the door. I listened, but said nothing. A suppressed whisper was heard under the window. A low shed roof was under the window, which they could easily reach after gaining the roof with a ladder. I waited until they began to force it open; then I stepped forward, and, in as firm a voice as I could, I commanded them to leave or they would be sorry for it; but the worse it got. I shook sleepy Mary until I succeeded in arousing her, and then I let the mob have the benefit of a six-shooter I had prepared for the occasion. The way they made their escape was not slow. I retired and slept soundly, feeling confident that I had frightened them, and taught them a lesson they would not forget soon. 
                  The next morning, the first one I saw was the proprietor's son. I soon bade all good morning, and took the first train of cars, thinking, as I went, if all Illinois was like the two places I had visited, I should have to turn back. 
                  I travelled as far as Peoria without stopping. There I found the people more civilized. I stopped with a southern family, where I felt myself at home, had a good room, plenty to eat and drink, and good company. We went riding, fishing, and hunting on the beautiful prairie. I went from there to Springfield, the capital. What a delightful road to travel. You can see five miles on the straight road. It is one of the nicest that I have ever travelled; flowers on either side of richest hue. 
                  All this time I had heard but once from Harry, and that was in answer to a dispatch I sent to him. 
                  Nothing more of importance transpired until I arrived in Chicago. I received some twenty letters from my husband, that had been forwarded to me from the different towns where they had arrived after I left. These letters were full of love, endearing words, and assurances that he would never forget me, and that it would not be long before we would meet again. I thought he loved me, and think so yet. I will think so-I must; I cannot think so badly of one that I have loved so much. God knows I was as true to him as I was to my own soul. 
                  I spent a pleasant time in Chicago, sold a great many books, going out on the lake with parties from the city. I wore Harry's miniature in a pin. 
                  When I left Chicago, I went to a small town in Michigan, where I met a gentleman, whose first exclamation was: 
                   
                  "Why do you wear that miniature? Is he a friend, or what? He is a married man." 
                  I told him that it was my husband's. Said he: 
                  "Hattia, I know him well; he has a wife in the city of New York." 
                  I could not believe it, but wrote to him, telling him of what I had heard. He did not answer me. He had all my money, as I sent it to him every week. 
                  When I arrived in Jackson, Michigan, I met another gentleman who told me the same. I then thought of going to New York on purpose to ascertain the truth, as I had the street, number, and all. I wrote to him, and informed him of my intention, when the answer to me was, "Give Mrs. -- my love when you see her, Hattia." When that letter reached me, I thought it all a joke, and treated it as such; but my hopes were all blasted in a week's time. 
                  I was out of books and money. I wrote to him every day, but no answer came, I wrote to the publishers; they treated me the same. In answer to about twenty letters, I received one from my publisher; that he would send me books at $10 per hundred, when they only cost me $4; that I must pay that in order to pay Mr. -- the $90, that I owed him. And one came from Harry at the same time, telling me that I was not his wife, and that I owed him money; I must pay him, or I should not have my plates or books, and that he would complain to the -- if I gave him any more trouble. 
                  What could I do? I knew I was married-I had a marriage certificate. But I must go down and see him; there was something wrong. I went to the superintendent of the road; he is a kind, good man, and a gentleman. He gave me a pass as far as he could; I then pawned my trunk for the balance. It was Saturday morning when I arrived in Indianapolis. But, by the way, I had almost forgotten to say that I had taken two hundred books at the above price, and gave orders to the express agent to keep the money until I ordered him what to do. This was some two weeks before I returned to Indianapolis. 
                  At noon, Saturday, I made my way to the publisher, when I informed him that I must have my books and plates, if nothing more; that they had leagued themselves together to cheat me out of my money. As they had in their possession about $9,000 of my money, and all I was worth, I beseeched him to give me part-to give me an order for the $20 in Detroit, as I had borrowed it from a gentleman who needed it very much. He refused to do so. I went to him once more. He gave me an order, but after he had collected the money himself, he said that he would take the responsibility of printing me a thousand books at $4 per hundred. 
                  I started with three hundred copies from Indianapolis, in disgust, with my heart almost broken, as I could hear nothing from Harry. They would tell me nothing. I stopped at a small town in Indiana. I made inquiry, but did not tell them who I was. I was informed by a servant that a gentleman had left, the day before, with his wife and little son, about three years old. Oh, God! no pen could paint my feelings. But I kept firm. It was whispered in the house, and remarks were going the rounds at the dinner table that I was rather better looking than Mrs. --. Harry, knowing well that I would do as I said, had sent for her when I made known to him my intention of visiting her in New York. That week he sailed with my money for California, leaving his wife and myself to share the same fate patiently, if we liked. He did not love her, and would not live with her. He could not, for officers were already on his track. 
                  When I returned to Detroit, there were five hundred books, which should have been $20 instead of $50-$10 per hundred. I sent the books back to him, and have not heard from him since. I thought I would starve in peace, if starve I must, and not trouble myself about books at that price. As I have heard nothing of those publishers since, I wish them all the good luck in this world, and as much happiness in the next as they can enjoy. 
                  I cannot yet believe what I already know about Harry-or Mr. --, as I must call him now. It appears a dream; but oh, it is a reality. But I feel that I am a wiser woman, and I trust a better one. My confidence in man is lost. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER VIII. 
                  MY VISIT TO PHILADELPHIA-SELLING ALMANACS. 
                  FROM Detroit I had money to bring me to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. When I arrived in that city I had four cents left. I had no baggage. I walked to a hotel, where I had stopped before, thinking if I could get books to sell I would soon have money, for I have a great deal of faith in my book-selling. Friday morning, after I arrived, I went to a firm and told them my circumstances. Mr. M. proposed to me that I should start out with a new almanac. Reader, you perhaps can imagine my feelings going through markets, streets, hotels, and every other place, with a five cent almanac. I sold them until Saturday evening, making enough to pay for three hundred Monday morning. My bill was sent up to me. I, of course, could not pay it, as I had but twenty-five cents. I told them I would pay my bill as soon as possible, taking my leave of them. I stopped every day at the small towns, selling my books, and in a week I was in Philadelphia. Thinking I could get into some good situation as saleswoman, I walked two days through the city, but could get nothing to do. Plenty of work, but I had no letters to recommend me. I was almost insane. Mr. A--, publisher, let me have books; but in a city like Philadelphia what can you do with books, unless you are the author yourself, and then it would be difficult to sell them, for there is more literature than anything else in the Quaker City. 
                  
                     Tuesday Evening.-I can get nothing to do. I am at a colored family's-could get no boarding-house without baggage, and I thought I should have to stay in the street-I went to a colored barber and told him I must stay all night; they succeeded in getting me a boarding-house until next morning, when I shall start out once more to try and obtain work. 
                   
                  
                     Monday Morning, Nov. 28, 1859.-This morning I went to the intelligence office, as the last resort; but it is noon, and I have returned with a heavy heart to my not very attractive boarding-house, with a promise that I should have a situation this afternoon. 
                  
                     Afternoon.-I am again seated in the office-but it is not the place I had always thought it was-not the low and vulgar haunt-but genteel people, both male and female, visit it for the purpose of obtaining work. A nice, genteel young girl attends the poor women and girls that are driven by adversity to seek a home somewhere, and that is the only place where they can find one, it appears, in a city like Philadelphia-a city of love and charity-they must have a letter to recommend them; if not, they must starve or go to a place like this, and perhaps they will stand a chance of getting one. 
                  
                     Evening.-At last I have obtained a situation in a minister's house. Of course they will treat me well; they are too good and holy to do anything but right. We have travelled seven miles in a carriage, and I am seated in the kitchen with my bonnet on, as I was not allowed to warm myself by the stove in the dining-room where the rest were, but I was ushered in by the lady herself, and have had an introduction to the kitchen. Well, we must take things as they are-I will make myself at home. 
                  8 o'clock.-I was informed an hour ago that I could spread the kitchen table and bring my supper out, as they were all done; but as I didn't wish supper, I was coldly informed that I could wash the silver in the dining-room and bring the rest of the dishes into my parlor, the kitchen. I did so. 
                  I brought up coal, made things all ready for breakfast, and felt more at home, under the circumstances, perhaps, than any one else could; but I am one that always hopes for better days; those who have never had such an experience little know the heart trial of such a thing. Ah! we may often say, "let me go to strangers;" yes, that will do when we have money to spend, but to-night I can say with the poet- 
                        "The dearest spot to me on earth is home, sweet home."
                     
                   
                   
                  I look back on my life; I can say that it has been made up of lights and shadows-sunshine and sorrow. I have retired to my room; it is a little lone room in the attic. A bed, one chair, and a table-that completes the furniture. Although a bitter cold night, I have no fire. A small oil lamp burning on the table adds to the loneliness of the room. I have searched the place and tried the windows, to make sure no person can enter. I shall retire in a few minutes. Wonder what to-morrow will bring forth. I hope I shall have pleasant dreams-so good night. I won't feel bad-back, tears! I'll be a woman. 
                  
                     Tuesday Evening, 7 o'clock.-To-day I have done more than I ever did at once in my life. I can hardly get up out of my chair; a rheumatic pain has gone all through my body. God only knows what will become of me. This morning I took my breakfast in the kitchen, and was employed in washing until noon; then I was told that I could rest myself and wash the dinner dishes. At 5, I think I had washed everything in the house. The grand lady came out and told me that it was supper-time. I informed her that if she wished to be a lady herself, she must keep servants-that I intended to leave. So it is 7, and I am waiting for morning, as I think if I must live this way I prefer death. Hark! they are singing a hymn, "Am I a Soldier of the Cross?"-now they kneel at prayer. Well, they have need of it, let them pray; I bid them good night; they can eat their supper and wash the dishes, but I shall retire. 
                  
                     Wednesday Morning.-I bade them all good bye and set out for the city, where I arrived in good time. Mr. F-- offers me books on commission. I shall leave for some little town this afternoon. 
                  2 o'clock, P.M.-I am seated in the cabin of a beautiful little steamer on the Delaware river; the scenery is delightful, and the day is the finest of the season; the sun is shining in all its glory, the boat is floating upon the water like the summer breeze, and a pleasant party aboard 
                  
                     Evening-Burlington, New Jersey-Hotel.-I am seated in my room, more comfortable than I have been for a week. I appreciate comfort more than I have ever done, for I have never felt the need of money so much until I went to Philadelphia. God help me! may I never feel so again; and if I should be so fortunate as to have plenty once more, may I never forget the poor. I spent the last cent I had to come to this place; but I have energy, and if I keep my health I can soon have money. I will compose my mind and try to sleep. 
                  
                     Thursday Evening.-To-day I have sold five dollars' worth of books, of which $2 50 is mine. 
                  
                     Friday Morning.-To-day Captain Brown will be executed. 
                  11 o'clock.-A dispatch received; he is dead; his wife awaits his body. How I sympathize with the poor woman. 
                  
                     Evening.-I have sold twelve dollars' worth of books to-day. 
                  
                     Saturday Morning.-All seated in the cabin of the Edwin Forrest this bitter cold day-for what a change: yesterday warm and balmy, to-day we must hover close to the stove to keep warm. There are about three hundred passengers for Trenton, within a mile of the city. We are on a sand-bar, but in an hour the captain says we can land and take the cars. Well, at last we are in Trenton. It is evening, and I am seated alone in my room. Have sold books enough to make me comfortable in money matters. On the cars I met a gentleman who took charge of my baggage and kindly conducted me to a hotel, where I am cared for. 
                  
                     Sunday.-Very lonely to-day-all alone in my room. 
                  
                     Evening.-I begin to feel myself; once more I am in good spirits. 
                  
                     Monday Evening.-Sold a hundred books. 
                  
                     Tuesday Morning.-Raining; can't get out. 
                  
                     Evening.-Have the toothache. Oh! what shall I do? 
                   
                  
                     Wednesday.-very unwell; my face is all swollen. 
                  
                     Thursday Morning-Newark, New Jersey.-I shall do a good business here. 
                  
                     Evening.-Am seated in the cars on my way to New York city. Wonder what the future has in store for me. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER IX. 
                  MY ADVENTURES IN NEW YORK. 
                  THIS morning I am seated alone in the parlor of a small hotel in -- street, thinking of the past and present-of days long past never to return Some pleasing memories around them cling. A rap at my door. Ah, yes! my maid. What is this?-a letter in a familiar handwriting. I hasten to break the seal and read: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              
                                 "SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.
                               
                              "MY DEAREST HATTIA: I have wronged you. I love you and ever shall. I was married four years ago to a woman I can never love. If you can forgive me, come to me. I had to leave, as you already know; she followed me. What could I do? I had no money of my own, and was compelled to use yours. Can you forgive me? You are the only woman I ever loved, or ever can. For God's sake come. I will send you money if you will consent to come. Yours ever, 
                              
                                 HARRY."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  For a moment I stood. Should I go? No; my pride weighed. I was not his lawful wife. He would treat me the same, and had he not already done enough to condemn him? Although I still loved him, I could not so far forget right from wrong. I wrote: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              
                                 "NEW YORK, --
                               
                              "HARRY: Forget me; we shall never meet again. A man that can so forget his honor, I cannot love. You have wronged me, and your wife is wronged-injured beyond all forgiveness. I will not say that I will forget you: that would be telling an untruth; but we must not meet. Try to live a better life than you ever have done. Farewell for ever. May we meet in heaven. 
                              
                                 HATTIA."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  It was a hard struggle to give him up; but I knew I must. 
                
                
                   
                  MEETING AN ENEMY. 
                  While promenading one of the fashionable streets in New York one pleasant afternoon, my eyes rested on the plate on the door of one of the finest houses in the city. It made me start, a cold perspiration stood in great drops on my forehead. Without thinking what I was about, I rang the bell, and asked for Mr. H. Moore, as that was the name-it might be the man who killed my first husband. I took a seat in the richly-furnished parlor, and awaited his coming; I did not send my card, and he was not thinking of the one he had to meet. When he entered he started back, gasped for breath, and would have fallen; but I was at his side in an instant. He was like a child. I led him to a sofa and seated myself by him. He was almost gone with a consumption. He said he had not long to live; that he was glad to see me-would I accept his house for my home? He had repented of all he had done-was sorry. He was going, fast dying; he had made his peace with God. He told me to listen to him. Said he, "This house is rightly yours; I robbed you of all you had at your husband's death. I had no mortgage on your property, but forged it. On my knees I beg you to forgive me before I die. I leave a will which makes you the right and only owner of all I possess. Here is a purse for your present use." I left him and returned to my hotel. The next morning I was summoned to his side: he was dying. I wiped the cold sweat from his face and closed his eyes. All who met me there thought I was an old friend. The property is all in my possession. I have money at my command. Shall I ever forget the poor? No, no. I won't go to Europe. Neither will I indulge again with summer friends who run and leave you when money is gone. God help me to do right. I intend to travel with my new work which, I am writing, and let the world read a Hoosier girl's life. I intend to help the poor, and do the best in my power to promote the happiness of others. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER X. 
                  CONCLUSION. 
                  IT was my intention to hunt up the wife of Harry and try to make her happy. I therefore went to work putting advertisements in the different papers stating that if Mrs. Allen would call at such a number she would hear something to her advantage. A week passed and she did not call. I had almost given up ever finding her, when one morning I was summoned to the parlor. 
                  A lady advanced to the centre of the room, and introduced herself as Mrs. Allen. She was a woman of about twenty-eight years; she was pale, her eyes were sunken, she had once been beautiful, she had a well-chiselled mouth, her form was exquisite, but she wore such a sad and sorrowful expression that you were at once drawn toward her. She stood gazing at me for a minute, and then rushed into my arms exclaiming "Hattia!" at the same time I called her by name, Maud. Ah, we had met before on the Ohio, seven years ago, ere care had left its marks upon her brow. Does the reader recognize Maud of Wheeling, Va., when she was lifted from the water at Cincinnati? 
                  I explained all to her; told her that we had been both married to one man. We vowed to be to each other all that sisters could be; we intend travelling together, As long as I have money it is hers. I already love her, she is so good, noble, and everything in her to love-self-sacrificing and sympathizing. 
                  It is Christmas eve. We are seated in our private parlor at the hotel. I have just received another letter from California, it is dated five days later than the one I received, but had been detained. It reads thus: 
                  
                     "MRS. --: Your husband is no more. He breathed his last a few minutes ago. At his request I write to you. He was taken sick three days ago; we could not save him. In his ravings he called loudly on you to forgive him. Your name was ever on his lips. It was the last word he spoke-'Hattia, Hattia! oh, forgive me: for God's sake forgive me!'"
                   
                  After reading this I buried my face in my hands for a moment, and I felt as though my heart would burst; but this must not be-I must be strong. One other had loved him! 
                  Reader, farewell! I am drawing my story to a close. I have written truths in a rough, Hoosier style. I will try and forgive all who have injured me, and never forget my friends who have stood by me in adversity. 
                
               THE END. 
             
             
                
               THE LOVER'S REVENGE. 
                
                  CHAPTER I. 
                  TOWARDS the end of April, in the year 1833, a fine looking young man, with a gun on his shoulder, traversed one of those vast pine forests, which, commencing at the foot of the Vosges, seem to crown the highest peaks of the mountains with a diadem of verdure. Our pedestrian-the brilliancy of whose well varnished boots clearly proved the shortness of his journey-soon reached the outskirts of the wood, and directed his steps towards a little cottage, situated at the bottom of the valley. 
                  This was the residence of Captain Morizot a veteran of the Empire, wreck of our victorious legions, living ruin of an epoch, whose heroes are already gigantic, though not yet viewed through the microscope of ages. M. Morizot had lived fifty years, yet his hair was but slightly tinged with gray. His face, somewhat wrinkled around the temples, never wore a smile. He possessed one of those iron constitutions, which resist alike fatigue and adversity; for, our readers must know, the captain had been exposed to terrible affliction. A woman, whom he loved with all the powers of his soul, had shamefully betrayed him. The soldier, on his return from the camp, hoped to find this woman, as he had formerly known her, affectionate and pure. He desired to make her his wife; but, like many others, when absent he was basely sacrificed. Nineteen years after this infidelity, which had broken his heart, the captain suffered as acutely as on the first day, and often would it agitate his mind, impelling him to repulse the caresses of his daughter, a sweet and amiable child, who would run to console him, when she saw his brow darken with a frown, and the heavy tears course down his cheeks. 
                  "Leave me, Louise, leave me!" he would say with a harsh impetuous voice: "You resemble her, and your presence recalls to me odious remembrances!" 
                  But soon repenting these words, which gave vent to inconsolable grief, the old soldier would approach Louise, who had tremblingly drawn back, and tenderly embrace her. The young girl would then endeavor to discover the cause of these sudden outbreaks. 
                  "No, no," M. Morizot would say to her, "do not question me. You are my daughter; oh! yes, you are my daughter, and I love you!" 
                  Apart from these occasional unpleasant scenes, the manner of life at the cottage was quiet, and full of charms. The captain received a pension of five hundred francs, which was more than enough for the humble wants of Louise and himself. With very singular originality, M. Morizot had willed that his daughter should be brought up like the simplest peasant. He desired himself to give her the education of the heart; but for the education of the mind he altogether neglected to provide. With the old soldier this conduct was the result of a well-established system; and we are inclined to believe he would have been but indifferently pleased to hear that another had undertaken to repair this voluntary neglect. 
                  This was the cause of an incident which occurred two months previous to the commencement of our tale. 
                  While the captain was absent from the cottage, Louise took care to remove an old domestic, who assisted her in the labors of the household. Then she mounted to her chamber, and waved a white handkerchief from her window in the air. The young girl was sure that the signal would be perceived by M. Ernest Forestelle, the nephew of the richest lumber merchant in the neighborhood. 
                  Accordingly the blessed handkerchief no sooner appeared from her window, than he, whom it summoned, hastened to leave the magnificent residence of his uncle, situated at some distance on the declivity of the mountain, It was Ernest Forestelle who traversed the pine forest which separated the chateau of the merchant from the cottage of the captain. 
                  The latter had gone to Raon l'Etape to receive a quarterly instalment of his pension. 
                  Joyous and smiling, Louise awaited Ernest at the threshold of the door. On his approach she ran to salute him, and then they both walked to the side of a little garden, enclosed by a live hedge, and cultivated by M. Morizot himself, who had only two passions, that of the chase and that of gardening. Out of a small piece of ground, lying near his dwelling, the captain had made a sort of Eden in miniature. All the mountain plants, from the turpentine tree to the fragrant grapevine, from the yellow heath to the flower of gold, from the periwinkle to the corolles d'azur, and the entire family of myrtles and syringas were united there, intertwining their flexible branches, and mingling their perfumes. Arbors formed of the wild vine, were disposed in the four corners of this lovely parterre, and it was under one of these that Louise conducted her young professor. 
                  They sat down together before a table, made of two deal planks nailed solidly upon four stakes driven in the ground. Upon this table were some printed books, and a manuscript copy book, which the young girl placed triumphantly under the eyes of Ernest. 
                  "See," said she, "how industrious I have been this morning." 
                  "Really," replied the young man, "you will soon be more skilful than your teacher, Louise." 
                  "Oh, not so, M. Ernest. Think how many things I must yet learn. I can read with facility, I write a little-but history! but geography! I am ashamed of being so ignorant, and when I think that you have had the goodness to instruct me, me, a poor girl-I can never express all my gratitude." 
                  "S peak not of that, Louise. Tell me, does your father yet suspect any thing?" 
                  "No, but I shall soon betray myself-it is inevitable. As I have always told you, M. Ernest, I am ashamed of my ignorance: you are so learned. But with my father, it is a different thing. I am proud of the little I know, and every moment I am dying with desire--Stop, yesterday again, M. Joseph Cornu, you know, the secretary of the justice of the peace at Raon, read to the captain the Annals of Glory; well, I was on the point of taking the book and reading it in my turn." 
                  "What imprudence! Oh, never do such a thing again, Louise, I conjure you!" 
                  "Mon Dieu, monsieur Ernest, will you then forbid me to inform my father how good you are, how obliging you are to me?" 
                  "No, Louise," answered the young man, with embarrassment; "but I desire you to wait until my task shall have been accomplished, and you have become learned, very learned." 
                  "And that will require a long time yet?" 
                  "Oh, no! for you have admirable talents, and I am certain that before a month--" 
                  "True!" she exclaimed, gaily clapping her hands; "then I can study with energy. Let us not lose a minute." 
                  "The surprise which you reserve for the captain will be far greater, when you can relate to him the history of his emperor," pursued Ernest, while mending Louise's pen. 
                  "You are right," said the young girl. "My father already esteems you very highly, monsieur Ernest; but he will esteem you far more, when I tell him how greatly I am indebted to you." 
                  "It might be quite the contrary, Louise; perhaps M. Morizot will censure me." 
                  "For what reason?" exclaimed she, with charming simplicity. 
                  "The captain is, at times, so eccentric! For example, he has never been willing, notwithstanding the repeated invitations of Madame Forestelle, to bring you to the parties at the chateau." 
                  "Madame Forestelle is very good, and very kind," replied the young girl; "but what would a poor peasant girl look like among such a crowd of elegant ladies? Great goodness! I tremble to think of it. Look you, monsieur Ernest, every one should keep to their place, as my father says. I am useful to look after the affairs of my little household, and prepare you a supper, when you return together from the chase, harassed with fatigue. There I must stop-I am capable of nothing more. But you do not finish mending that pen, monsieur Ernest: shall I not write then to-day?" 
                  "Pardon me, Louise. Confess why the captain so wrongly suffers you to wear the dress of a peasantess. Under a city costume you would be charming." 
                  "Do you think so, M. Ernest?" 
                  "Indeed I do, Louise. Ah! why has M. Morizot been unwilling to let you come to the ball at the chateau this evening? I am confident that in the simplest attire, you would eclipse Madamoiselle Victorine de Fontanges." 
                  "What nonsense!" said the young girl. 
                  "And then, your presence would sustain me, would give me courage-for I am very unhappy, Louise." 
                  "Sainte-vierge! you weep, M. Ernest," she cried, rising much agitated, and approaching the young man. "Surely I have not given you cause for grief, have I? That would be very much against my will, I swear, for I love you. It sometimes seems to me that you are my brother." 
                  "Oh, yes, Louise, you are kind, affectionate; you have all the virtues of an angel." 
                  Then he murmured, as if speaking to himself: 
                  "And Frederick advised me to seduce her! No, never! I should be a scoundrel." 
                  "Listen!" said the young girl, suddenly; "it seems to me--what, already returned?" 
                  "It is the captain's voice," said Ernest, jumping up hastily: "I do not wish to encounter him. Good by, Louise, good by!" 
                  And the young man snatching up his gun, which lay in a corner of the arbor, hastened away, after kissing the hand of his pupil, and lightly leaping over the hedge that surrounded the garden, he soon disappeared behind the trees of the valley; while Louise, (concealing her books and papers under a tuft of honeysuckle,) soliloquized thus: 
                  "And so, poor monsieur Ernest is unhappy! if he had only told me what grieved him, I could perhaps, have consoled him." 
                  "Louise, Louise!" cried the loud voice of her father. 
                  "Here I am," she replied, running towards him with the swiftness of a bird." 
                  "You did not expect me so soon, did you, my child? Fancy who I met when half way to Raon, guess who?-the paymaster himself, who was taking the air in his carriage, whilst I was going to his office to obtain my quarterly instalment. Truly, these gentlemen are free from care! After all, I shall be at liberty to return to-morrow. But I have had another encounter to-day," added the captain, pointing towards a stout youth, who had planted himself like a corner stone on the steps of the cottage door. "The conscription was drawn to-day, and the number one hundred and twenty has fallen on this coward of a Joseph Cornu." 
                  'As you say, captain, as you say," joined in the secretary of the justice of the peace, advancing to salute Louise, his hat adorned with ribands of the national colors; "and I have the pleasure, palsambleu! Don't be alarmed, mademoiselle, palsambleu is a very pretty word which I have discovered in a modern novel." 
                  "What! monsieur Joseph Cornu, do you read novels?" demanded Louise. 
                  "Do I read novels, vertubleu! Vertubleu, mademoiselle, is yet another word, perfectly distinct. Do I read novels? I make nourishment of them. I devour them; that is the most convenient expression I can make use of." 
                  "Novels," said the young girl with naivete, "must be a very amusing sort of reading." 
                  "Yes, par la corbleu! I affirm it to you. Par la corbleu! mademoiselle, was the favorite oath of his majesty, Louis XV., and I am enchanted to be able at this moment to speak to you the language of that great king. Novels, look you, novels--" 
                  "Who speaks there, of novels?" cried M. Morizot, who during the dialogue above reported, had been to put away his hat and cane in the next room. 
                  "Eh! ventrebleu! it is me, captain!-Ventrebleu, you must know, is another oath, which the nobles of the age of Louis XV.--" 
                  "And wherefore do you speak of novels, before my daughter!" thundered M. Morizot, precipitating himself upon the unlucky conscript. 
                  "Wherefore? Dame, captain,-Oh! if you want to strangle me, say so." 
                  "My father," shrieked Louise, "what are you doing to the poor youth?" 
                  "Indeed, I am wrong," said M. Morizot, releasing Joseph Cornu, whom he had seized by the throat. "There, confess yourself an idiot." 
                  "I will confess any thing you please, captain, provided--Palsambleu! what wrists you have, for your age!" 
                  "Novels," said the old soldier, soliloquizing-"it was novels that ruined her! But, once more, I have done wrong to alarm you," he continued, addressing Louise; "for thank God, my child, you cannot read, and that is a thing which I rejoice over every day. But, how pale and trembling you look! I am to blame for frightening you in this manner-I am a brute. I confess it. Now I think of it, Joseph, have you a mind to sup with us?" 
                  "Par la corbleu, captain, I accept." 
                  "What does the dog mean with his vertubleus, and his corbleus? I don't understand such gibberish." 
                   
                  "But, captain, it is a very innocent mode of swearing; as good way as any." 
                  "And why do you swear at all, I ask? Is it because you hear in swear; I, who am an old soldier? You can but express yourself a you do, when you possess equal pretensions." 
                  "Excuse me, captain." 
                  "Never mind, it is decided that you are to sup with us, and to honor your number, we will uncork a bottle of Rhenish wine. Quick Louise," added M. Morizot, "hasten to assist old Madeleine, and get up an early supper. You know I am invited to the chateau this evening." 
                  "Eh!" cried Joseph, "I ought to go there too. The justice of the peace having received a letter of invitation, M. Forestelle could no dispense with sending me one." 
                  "He was perfectly right. And doubtless you will go to present yourself with that cockade in your hat?" 
                  "No, captain, Mlle. Louise will have the goodness to unstitch these ribands-Will you not, Mlle. Louise? Oh, she is gone! Then so much the better, for I have something to say to you concerning her." 
                  "Ah! Ah!" 
                  "Going along, I have had my mouth open twenty times to communicate my thoughts to you, but had not the courage. At the end of the relation, you cannot eat me. So I risk myself." 
                  "Speak out," said M. Morizot, seating himself upon a stone bench placed against the front wall of the cottage. "Come and sit yourself down there, near me. So you do not desire to experience any more of my sudden fits of madness." 
                  "Whenever you have fits of that nature, do not restrain yourself captain.-Go on! go on!" 
                  "Brave youth!" said M. Morizot, pressing the hand of the young man with emotion, "as you have witnessed, when I hear those infamous books spoken of, a fit of frenzy overpowers me. Novels have cost me all the happiness of my life." 
                  "Well, captain, I will not read them again, I swear." 
                  "Oh! I fear not for you. If you learn folly from that kind of works you will lose it in the field; and the poison will have no lasting influence on your frank and honorable nature. Come, what have you to communicate to me, of such importance?" 
                  "Dame, captain," replied Joseph, turning his hat around between his knees, "I know not how to begin. You know that I receive six hundred francs per annum, from the justice of the peace of Raon it is a handsome salary, captain! It is true that boarding, washing and lodging, is not included: but it is sufficient. I save out of it twenty francs per month, after paying all expenses-and at my grand aunt's decease, (which I do not desire, but the contrary!) I shall inherit a considerable sum, and be able to purchase the registry You understand, captain?" 
                   
                  "Yes, but proceed." 
                  Ah! diable! I have not began the most difficult part of what I have to say!" 
                  M. Morizot laughed in his sleeve. He saw clearly what the poor youth wanted to come at, and was exceedingly amused at the perplexity depicted on his countenance. The Secretary of the justice of the peace continued to twirl round his felt hat, and the captain hoped that he would finish by transforming it into a fashionable chapeau. As they proposed attending the ball of the lumber merchant together, M. Morizot did not think proper to oppose such a metamorphosis. 
                  "Well, have you lost the thread of you discourse?" 
                  "No, captain, but I am so much afraid of a refusal. Bah! I am a fool!" 
                  "So you say yourself." 
                  "It is now two years since I made your acquaintance. Yes, captain, for two years, I have visited you nearly every evening. It is rather more than a half hour's walk from Raon l'Etape, to this place,-yet, in summer when it does not storm, in winter when it freezes, I hurry off immediately the office is closed: I come to read to you, the Annals of Glory-a very interesting work, which I know by heart!" 
                  "After?" 
                  "Dame! captain, I have not made bad use of my boots; and I must tell you, this was not done solely on your account." 
                  "Well! that is very polite." 
                  "I am on a subject which may vex you. No matter: I will utter the important word-I will lay open my heart: I love mademoiselle Louise!" 
                  "Ah! indeed?" 
                  "Yes, captain, and if my boldness offends you, here is my head-I give you leave to cut it off." 
                  "Take care, my lad," said M. Morizot, laughing. 
                  "You are not offended then, captain?" demanded Joseph Cornu, with a joyful air. 
                  "You see that plainly enough, it appears to me. Listen-you come to me to ask the hand of my daughter in marriage--" 
                  "And you grant it?" suggested the secretary. 
                  "Peste! how you run on! The consent of Louise is at least necessary." 
                  "Ah! mon Dieu! look how I tremble now. Should she refuse to be my wife--" 
                  "And why should she refuse? are you not a brave, an upright young man, of well established principle? You are a little simple, to be sure, but marriage will improve you." 
                  "I hope it will, captain." 
                  "Ah! ah!" said M. Morizot, "she comes to announce that supper is on the table." 
                  Indeed, the young girl stood at the threshold of the door. At meal hours, she was accustomed to add some little ornaments to her toilet, and under the singular but graceful costume of the mountaineers, Louise was ravishingly beautiful. A velvet cap, set coquettishly on her pretty head, left her snow-white forehead bare, and allowed her hair to fall in graceful fillets, black as ebony. She wore around her neck a small golden cross, consecrated by contact with the relics of the Saint of the Rock. Her bodice, also of velvet, displayed her well formed waist, and her short skirt, made of the plain gray cloth of the mountains, was set off by a calico apron of gay colors. Nothing could be so artless, sincere, and virginal as this lovely young girl, adorned with all her modesty and innocence: so that she was called in the neighborhood, the Rose of the Valley. Louise was a brunette; her cheeks, soft as the down of the peach: her eyes, large and blue, veiled with long black lashes, might have startled the paintings of Raphael and Correggio; and two adorable dimples, one at each corner of her rosy mouth, rendered her smile sweet as an angel's. 
                  At this moment the face of Louise was illumined by the last rays of the setting sun, which softly glanced through the mountain pines. The secretary, beholding her so beautiful, trembled with love and pleasure. 
                  "Come here, Louise," said M. Morizot: "you will never betray the confidence Joseph reposes in me." 
                  "Oh! no, captain, not at present!" murmured the young man, with an air of anxious supplication. If I were refused, I should not have the least appetite, I assure you. I would much rather that you introduced the subject at the desert-between two glassed of your excellent Rhenish wine. If I meet with bad luck, I shall then have more courage to bear it." 
                  "Diable!" cried M. Morizot, "you are full of precautions. Let us wait then till the desert." 
                  He entered the house. The young girl and Joseph followed him. 
                  The cottage consisted of but one story. The ground floor contained the room into which we are about to introduce our readers, and another apartment which served alternately for a kitchen and a lodging room for old Madeleine. The garret was divided into two chambers, one for M. Morizot, and the other for Louise. In the rear of the cottage stood several out buildings, covered with thatch, used partly for cattle and partly for the clamorous inhabitants of the poultry yard. All this breathed an air of pastoral simplicity, which made it delightful to look upon. Here and there, fountains of limped water spouted forth their foaming streams, washing the pavements of the court, and maintaining the salubrity of the stables. The walls were densely shaded with ivy, and when after a thunder storm, the sun illumined the drops of water suspended on this verdure, the poor and humble residence of the captain sparkled with emeralds and sapphires like the palace of the fairies. 
                  But, return we into the first apartment of the cottage, where all our personages were left preparing to take their evening repast. 
                  This was the room in which they received strangers, yet it had not the slightest appearance of luxury. The Vosges are on the frontiers of Germany, and the character of the mountaineers conforms very nearly to that of the Germans the same open and sincere hospitality, but also the same reserve, the same defence against improper inquisitiveness into the family sanctuary. The room, of which we speak, was large and spacious. At the end was an immense fire-place, around which a circle of ten parsons could enjoy the pleasing warmth on a winter night. To the right of this patriarchal hearth, stood a bed, hung with curtains of green serge, reserved for strangers, when suddenly driven to seek shelter from those overwhelming thunder-storms, of so frequent occurrence among the Vosges, which turn the rivulets into torrents, and prevent the traveller from returning to his domicil, unless at the peril of his life. Time and again, had Ernest Forestelle and Joseph Cornu slept upon that hospitable bed, and dreamed of the girl they loved-for the intelligent reader has long ere this, discovered that the secretary of the justice of the peace and the nephew of the merchant, are rivals, though unknown to themselves. The other sides of the room were surrounded with shelves laden with pewter vessels, the brightness of which did the housekeeper credit. On the same shelves, ranged in file, were pans of milk, pots of butter, and wooden boxes containing new cheese, of which the bathers at Plombires are so fond. These little fruits of rural industry had the two-fold advantage of occupying the time of Louise, and augmenting the revenues of M. Morizot; for every Saturday, old Madeleine mounted an ass with the surplus of these domestic provisions, and went to sell them in the market at Raon. 
                  Meanwhile the supper was finished. The captain lit his pipe, opening first that famous bottle of Rhenish wine, which he had praised so highly. Joseph Cornu turned his restless eyes alternately on the father and the daughter, and M. Morizot, observing the embarrassment of the secretary, laughed quietly in his sleeve, and filled the room with dense clouds of Alsatian tobacco smoke. 
                  All at once, he exclaimed without any preamble. 
                  "Tell me, Louise, would you like to be married, my child?" 
                  The young girl regarded the captain with surprise. 
                  "My father," said she, "if you consider it advisable-you know that your will has always been mine." 
                  "That is what she ought to say. My dear child, it will ever grieve I me to force your inclination. What would you think of this kind of a husband?" he pursued, tapping Joseph Cornu on the shoulder. 
                  "It seems to me, my father--" 
                  "Go on, speak fearlessly." 
                  "That monsieur Joseph would make a good husband, and render his wife very happy." 
                  "Oh, yes, mademoiselle!" cried the secretary, rising from his chair, and running to throw himself at the young girl's knees; "my life shall be entirely devoted to your happiness. Oh, my God! is not this a dream! She consents to be my wife! You love me then Louise?" 
                   
                  "One welcomes with joy, those whom one loves," she replied, smiling gently, "and whenever you have come to see us--" 
                  "I am loved, captain! I am loved! do you understand?" cried Joseph, dancing round the room, and tossing his hat in the air. "And I am relieved from the conscription! two blessings in one day! It's enough to make, me crazy with joy!" 
                  "I know yon well on that point, you coward," said M. Morizot, attempting a tear of pity. "You have an awful dread of going to fight the Bedouins, and leaving your skin among the deserts of Atlas." 
                  "Dame! captain, I wish you were there." 
                  "What do you mean by those words?" 
                  "Pardon-I talk nonsense. A veteran soldier like you, asks for nothing but wounds and promotion! Come now, acknowledge that it will be much more agreeable for you to have us both, my little wife and me, to nurse you night and day. And then, we will have children, captain. Sweet little cherubs who shall resemble Louise"-- 
                  "What! can't you; hold your tongue?" said M. Morizot, rising in his turn, and taking Joseph Cornu by the ear, which he pulled roughly. "Do me the favor to put a little restraint on your conversation for a while. When shall the wedding take place?" 
                  "As soon as possible, captain." 
                  "I did not speak to you-answer me, Louise." 
                  "Whenever you think proper, my father." 
                  "Go, you are a good girl," said M. Morizot, embracing her tenderly. "Brush my coat, and unstitch the ribands from the hat of your intended, for we must prepare to start." 
                  "Shall you wear your cross, my father?" 
                  "Certainly," said Joseph. 
                  "Why do you interfere?" 
                  "Listen, then. I am now one of the family-I have a voice in your deliberations." 
                  "It is evident, and I must obey," said M. Morizot, opening a little casket of mother-of-pearl, which stood on the mantel-piece. 
                  He drew forth a cross of the Legion of Honor, and said, showing it to Louise and her future husband: 
                  "Behold the only inheritance I shall be able to leave you, my children. My pension is not large: we shall spend nearly the whole of it, and you know it expires with me." 
                  "Good!" exclaimed Joseph, again tossing to the ceiling his hat, which the young girl had returned to him, after depriving it of all superfluous ornament; "I forgot to tell you something, Upon my honor, joy makes me stupid. Know then, good father, know then, mademoiselle Louise, that we are possibly going to be wealthy, that we may yet roll in riches!" 
                  "Are you mad?" demanded M. Morizot. 
                  "No, indeed, I possess at this moment all my wonted intelligence. You know, captain, that M. Forestelle has put his chateau in a lottery-his chateau, the very same to which we are going this night." 
                  "Well?" 
                  "Now, then-I have three hundred francs in my little treasury, and I have bought two tickets out of my savings for the last two years." 
                  "Two-fold simpleton! Do you not see that this old miser of a M Forestelle, who, I believe, intends retiring to Paris, for he has made a colossal fortune by ruining, with his machinery, all the labors of our poor plank sawyers-do you not see, I say, that despairing of ever finding a purchaser for his country house, (his chateau, if you like it better,) he has put it in a lottery with the sole design of obtaining a higher price?" 
                  "I do not deny it, captain." 
                  "There is a wickedness in these lotteries," continued M. Morizot; "for they only serve to generate avarice in the breast of the poor man, and to dissipate his utmost resources, by exciting in his mind the thirst of gain. The government will, I hope, sooner or later put a stop to them. How many unfortunate beings will repent of having cast away their savings in this abyss. And you yourself idiot, you yourself--" 
                  "Ah! it is different with me. I have some chance, and I attribute it to the number one hundred and twenty, which I pulled at the first draw, right under the nose of the mayor-in proof of which that respectable magistrate said to me with an accent of paternal kindness, 'That dog of a Cornu! God forgive me, he was born lucky.' Then, look you, captain, every one talks about it. And, you must also be informed, I have taken the tickets in the name of mademoiselle Louise. An angel of innocence like her must be sure to win everywhere and continually." 
                  "What!" said the young girl, "have you done such a silly thing as that?" 
                  "Mon Dieu, yes, my dear Louise, and much more. I have selected the numbers corresponding to your age and mine, eighteen and twenty-one. So, if they do not win, it must be owing to malice." 
                  "Hold your tongue," said M. Morizot, "or you will certainly conclude by putting me in a passion." 
                  "Bah!" cried Joseph, "after all, if the drawing should not be favorable to us, that will only be three hundred francs lost; my little wife will still remain to me, a real treasure. Is it not so, captain? Mon Dieu, the happiest people in this world are not the richest, and I am very sure that M. Ernest Forestelle is less pleased to espouse mademoiselle Victorine de Fontanges, than I am to marry Louise. This night's ball has the air of a betrothal fete." 
                  "What!" said the young girl, with a tremulous voice, "monsieur Ernest going to marry?" 
                  "Yes, my child," replied M. Morizot, "and I fear very much that his money-griping uncle has forced him to this marriage, because he saw in prospect a dowry of four hundred thousand francs. I am very sorry for monsieur Ernest, for he is a brave and worthy young man." 
                   
                  "Certes, yes, captain; and he has more worth in his little finger than his friend Frederic d'Ormeuil, in his whole person. You know that fop, who wants to make love to all the country girls around? Should he ever cross my prospects-oh, Sacristi!" 
                  "Go along, braggadocio as you are," said the captain. "It is time we were started, and on the road we will chat over our affairs. Good night, Louise; good night, my child-but how dejected you seem." 
                  In fact, the young girl was seated apart, and the tears streamed from her eyes. 
                  "Let us leave her, captain," whispered Joseph Cornu in the ear of M. Morizot; "marriage always makes young girls delirious. You know that, I hope, at your age. Au revoir, Louise, my little wife." 
                  "Au revoir, monsieur Joseph," replied Louise, sadly. 
                  "Humph!" grumbled M. Morizot, "this appears very strange to me. Go on. Louise," he said in a commanding voice, "I desire you to shut yourself up securely with old Madeleine. I have my key. I will return at a seasonable hour." 
                  The captain, accompanied by Joseph Cornu, sallied out of the cottage, and took the road towards the chateau of M. Forestelle. Louise watched them slowly disappear among the trees of the forest, then, raising her eyes to heaven, she exclaimed in tones of grief: 
                  "Poor monsieur Ernest! It was doubtless for this reason that he so often told me he was unhappy." 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER II. 
                  THE sun had long since disappeared behind the mountains, and the moon having risen at the other extremity of the horizon, darted her tremulous rays through the dark curtain of the pines, and illuminated the tops of verdant oaks and flexible briches. One could hear, at a distance, the songs of nightingales, and the murmuring of cascades, which, falling from a lofty source, rushed over the surface of the rocks, and finally coursed along in little silvery streams upon the flowery heath. 
                  "I told you that we would converse of our affairs," said M. Morizot, who leaned familiarly on the arm of Joseph Cornu. "You have your papers, I have those of Louise. As you said, the marriage should be concluded as soon as possible; besides, I have my reasons for pressing it." 
                  "What reasons, captain?" 
                  "They do not concern you." 
                  "For all that, it seems to me--" 
                  "Do you mistrust me?" 
                  "Not the least, captain." 
                  "You are informed that the motives I may have do not concern you, and that should suffice." 
                  "That is enough, good father." 
                  "Now, do you consider yourself bound by what has passed this evening between you and I, and Louise?" 
                  "Certainly, ventrebleu! pardon, captain, I forgot--" 
                  "If so, I release you from all obligation." 
                  "From all obligation? I declare I do not understand--" 
                  "It is easy to comprehend; I mean to say that you are still perfectly at liberty either to espouse Louise, or to reject her hand." 
                  "I espouse, captain, I espouse!" 
                  "Stop a minute; perhaps you may change your mind: Louise is not my daughter." 
                  "Hein!-I beg a thousand pardons; but surely I have misunderstood you." 
                  "I repeat it: Louise is not my daughter." 
                  "Ah, captain, how can you perpetrate such malicious jokes? At your age too?" 
                  "At my age, at my age! Upon my word, one would suppose that I was some old dotard. At my age, monsieur Joseph Cornu, men of my temperament have a firm step and a quick eye, and can put conscripts of your species through the exercise with precision. But speaking seriously, I have said that I am not the father of Louise, and I have told the truth. She is a young girl whom I took under my care a few days after her birth, and whom I have raised as a child of my own. Louise has grown up in this persuasion, without suspecting that she is only my adopted daughter." 
                  "And her real father, do you know him?" 
                  "I could never lay hands on him, sacrebleu! Oh! should I ever encounter him, by death! he shall not escape me." 
                  "Good! I caught you there, captain; now you swear like a trooper." 
                  "Yes, I swear, tete et sang! I shall yet swear more than once, if I fail to find the villain. But enough! You have now heard a confession dictated by my conscience: and I ask you again, are you disposed to abide by your engagement?" 
                  "For ever, monsieur Morizot, forever. Eh! little does it matter to me whether Louise be the child of you, or of the king of France. I shall not give her up, I assure you. I espouse her, not her father. I should be very sorry, on my faith, to espouse her father." 
                  "Very well," said M. Morizot, "we are now near the chateau-Silence!" 
                  They emerged from the avenue of firs which they had followed till then, and found themselves in front of the residence of Ernest's uncle. 
                  It was, truly, a rich and sumptuous habitation, overlooking the valley in all directions. On the right and left, like sentry boxes, stood two pavilions, which, situated in front of the main building, formed a sort of court, enclosed with an iron railing, the bars of which were pointed like spears. 
                  The merchant Forestelle, as we have already learnt from the old soldier, was one of those men, less open perhaps than the ancient misers, in their sordid rapacity, but the more dangerous, inasmuch as they possess the art, so common in our age, of scattering money for the purpose of reaping it a hundred fold. The uncle of Ernest was a native of the Vosges. He had left the country while young, in consequence of an offence, of which he dreaded the results. As a clerk in a banking house at the capital, he made some money, and being persuaded, moreover, that the cause of his departure was forgotten, at the end of ten years, M. Forestelle returned to his native mountains, with his wife, by whom he had no children. In a short time, he amassed more than a million. We must acknowledge that he won this fortune by ruining at least fifty families: but the means which he put into operation were strictly legal, and as the former banking clerk often said himself, 'he did nothing but what he had a right to do.' 
                  Every one knows that the chief occupation of the mountaineers of the Vosges, is the sawing of timber. Now, until the arrival of M. Forestelle, this business was carried on in the old-fashioned method. The peasants had their humble contrivances, which were moved by the streams of the valley. The current turned a wheel, and the wheel worked a saw: and by the aid of his own labor, the mountaineer, at the end of his day's work, had some twenty or twenty-five planks. With the profits of these, he could procure some black-bread, a coarse woollen gown for his wife, and perchance a neckerchief for his daughter. On Sundays, they were wont to attend mass at the village church, and after performing their religious duties, they rested from the fatigues of the week under the refreshing shade of the pines. 
                  But the day came, when all these poor men were compelled to sit idle by their silent mills. M. Forestelle procured from England a wonderful machine, which alone dispatched more work than all the sawyers around. 
                  Yet, we willingly say it, Madame Forestelle was an excellent woman, whose whole life was devoted to the utmost possible reparation of the injury done by her husband to the industry ot the neighborhood. Unknown to the merchant, she daily visited their cottages, and rendered assistance to those unhappy people who were without work. Not content with providing for their momentary necessities, she turned her attention to the future. She deposited a certain sum annually in the hands of the village priest. This sum was to pay a physician for attending the sick, and a teacher charged with the instruction of the young mountaineers. In this manner, all the poor children of a certain age, were enabled to obtain situations in the city, in the service of the rich, and it also assisted those who preferred learning a trade. In a word, Madame Forestelle was an angel of benevolence in the eyes of the whole country; she alone saved her husband from becoming the victim of the hatred so generally vowed against him. 
                  As may be readily divined, M. Forestelle's disposition did not often inspire him with the idea of a good action. It was his wife who forced him, so to say, to provide for the education of his nephew, the only heir he would, probably, ever have. 
                  Ernest was now twenty-four years of age. He had studied law with the faculty of Strasburg, and his name was inscribed among the list of advocates at the bar of Saint-Die. But he did not practice, understanding that his aunt who loved him as if he had been her own son, desired to have him always with her. For a month past the merchant had resolved that Ernest should marry. In vain did Madame Forestelle, who foresaw the repugnance of the young man to this marriage, endeavor to change the determination of her spouse. Whenever she broached the subject, she received the following reply: "Mademoiselle Victorine de Fontanges is the richest heiress of the vicinage; four hundred thousand francs for her portion, and still more in prospect." The merchan pretended that this was unanswerable, and pursued his project, regardless of his wife's remarks, and the evident displeasure of his nephew. The miser decided that so splendid a dowry was well worth the pain of putting himself to expense. He sent letters of invitation to the ladies de Fontanges, as well as to all the society of Raon l'Etape and Saint-Di. The marriage once consummated, M. Forestelle designed retiring to Paris. Finding it difficult to sell his country house and adjacent property, he put all into a lottery, for the sum of two hundred and twenty-five thousand francs, represented by fifteen hundred tickets, of one hundred and fifty francs each: our estimable acquaintance, Monsieur Joseph Cornu, had purchased two, as our readers may remember. 
                  Meanwhile, Captain Morizot, accompanied by the secretary of the justice of the peace of Raon, approached, as we have said, the chateau of M. Forestelle. 
                  The double, gates were thrown open, and the lamps shone to a great distance to light the carriages through the entrance. The majority of the invited had not yet arrived. M. Morizot and Joseph Cornu found in the saloon only five or six young gentlemen of fashion, who hid either preceded the caleches, or outstripped the tilburies. 
                  Ernest, who stood in the midst of them, ran to welcome the captain. 
                  "Good evening, my bold hunter," said M. Morizot, cordially shaking hands with the young man. "When, like you, one has an uncle who owns a great part of our mountain forests, one may burn powder in prohibited seasons. Come, now, tell us your exploits." 
                  "Alas! my dear monsieur Morizot, I disturb not the wild-boar or the roe-buck." 
                  "And why not, morbleu? You have trouble on your mind, it appears. Well, well, I will come one of these fine mornings, and take you to a battue, and then, while shooting balls through the wolves of Homeck, you can tell me your sorrows." 
                  "Eh! very willingly, captain. My uncle wants to make me marry mademoiselle Victorine de Fontanges, but I detest her!" 
                  "Hush! take care, my friend, we have ears all around us here." 
                  "What do I care?" cried the young man, "I have constantly declared to my uncle that I will not obey his tyrannical orders. He has thought to frighten me, by threatening to deprive me of his inheritance. Eh! my God, let him disinherit me. I have no desire to buy a fortune at the price of misery." 
                  "Diable! diable!" exclaimed the captain; "you tell me sorrowful things, and they grieve me very much indeed; for I esteem you. And here," he continued, pointing to Joseph Cornu, who stood in the centre of the saloon in a posture of bewilderment; "I could wish that you were so happy as that fellow. He will soon be my son-in-law, and he adores his betrothed?" 
                  M. Morizot had scarcely uttered these words, when Ernest seized his arm violently, and looked at him with an air so profoundly desperate, that the captain started. 
                  "In the name of heaven, what have you done?" he demanded. 
                  But, seeing the inquisitive approach, and among them the secretary, M. Morizot replied in a loud tone: 
                  "It seems to me, however, that you have nothing to cause you such trouble." 
                   
                  "Excuse me," stammered the young man; "I am so wretched myself, that the happiness of others appears to me incredible. I suffer-oh, my God, how I suffer! I hope, captain, that your daughter may be happy-but receive my excuses: see, the guests surroud us; I must dissimulate, and remain quiet. We will see each other again, my friend, we will see each other again." 
                  Ernest withdrew. 
                  M. Morizot struck his forehead with anxiety. His conversation with M. Forestelle's nephew had given some consistency to a suspicion created in his mind by the sudden melancholy of, his daughter at the moment he left the cottage. 
                  "Morbleu!" said he, speaking to himself; "I am blind! I have exerted my memory in vain; never a word, never a look--Eh! my fears are absurd! I have not the least proof to sustain my suspicions. Let it be as it may, I shall press the marriage: it is a prudent measure which I want not to renounce-but after all, one has seen stranger things. It is very certain, that old miser of a M. Forestelle would never consent to what he would call an unequal alliance. Humph! an unequal alliance-perhaps so, in point of money." 
                  The captain was engaged in these reflections, when M. Forestelle accosted him in person. The visage of the merchant was purple with rage, and M. Morizot was obliged to pass the greater part of the evening in listening to the lamentations of the old miser, and his recriminations against Ernest. He soon discovered a thing which rendered him completely easy as to the consequences of the young man's resistance to the wishes of his uncle: it was, that Madame Forestelle zealously took the part of Ernest. Consequently, it was improbable that the merchant, in spite of his menaces, would ever decide upon disinheriting his nephew. 
                  We have too good a sense of propriety, and too good taste, to weary our readers with a description pf a country ball. Suffice it to say, that the company, which strutted through the saloon of the parvenu, consisted of persons residing among the mountains a hundred leagues from Paris. 
                  The refreshments affected the style named de l'amphitryon.
                   
                  Most of the dancers were free-spirited beauties, if one might judge from their toilet. The women thought to make a figure, by evincing a, good opinion of themselves, and the men, by exhibiting their impertinence and ignorance, imagined themselves to have attained the highest degree of politeness and bon ton. It must not be supposed that we desire to direct an attack specially against the balls and parties of the provinces: many of the Parisian circles might claim the better part of our criticism. 
                  In the midst of this throng, Ernest endeavored to conceal his mental tortures, and was undoubtedly the only irreproachable man at the ball. He quitted the fete but an instant, to have a secret conference in the gardens of the chateau, with Frederic d'Ormeuil, and some other friends. A quarter of an hour afterwards he was doing the honors of his uncle's ball room. He was cool and reserved, but polite, towards Mademoiselle de Fontanges; inviting her to dance, without affectation, and managing with perfect tact the delicacy of his position in regard to that young lady. The merchant, observing this conduct in Ernest, felt a hope of triumph, and M. Morizot himself sincerely believed that the young man had exaggerated his dislike. 
                  Towards midnight, the captain, thinking it time to retire, sought in the saloon for the, secretary of the justice of the peace. 
                  Joseph Cornu was not there to be found, but M. Morizot, visiting the gardens as a last resort, discovered him under an avenue of lime trees, sitting with his head between his hands, and sobbing bitterly. 
                  "Ah! my poor youth, why do you weep?" said the captain to him. "I weep-yes, it is true, I weep-instead of going to fight them, and coming to blows in the full saloon! I have no soul-I have no blood in these veins-I am a coward!" 
                  "But, explain yourself-what the devil do you mean? Of whom do you speak?" 
                  "Of whom do I speak, captain-of the friends of M. Ernest. Oh, why did I not kill them-that Frederic d'Ormeuil above all." 
                  "Come, be calm," said M. Morizot, gently striking him on the shoulder. 
                  "Be calm! that is easy for you to say-be calm! When I have torn them to pieces with my nails, not before. Fine rascals that he has for friends, M. Ernest. Yes, certes, I felicitate him upon them with all my heart. Picture to yourself that here, in this place, they have conspired to carry off Louise!" 
                  "To carry off Louise!" cried M. Morizot, who felt the hot blood mantling over his face. "The wretches! But no, you are mistaken-I cannot believe it." 
                  "Good! You are like them: they also pretended that I was mistaken, that I had misunderstood them. Be it so, ventrebleu! I have no ears, I am a dunce, a cabbage-head, a simpleton-I am any thing you like." 
                  The poor secretary redoubled his sobs, and struck his forehead with despair. 
                  "Come on!" cried the captain, suddenly. "Follow me. Let us confront them, and force an explanation in my presence." 
                  "This instant!" cried Joseph, jumping up with a tone of savage joy. 
                  And he would have rushed into the chateau, but M. Morizot held him back. 
                  "No," said he, "we must do nothing to occasion unnecessary scandal. They would be sure to deny it, and every one would condemn our violence. It would be best for you to relate to me all that occurred, all that was said. Carry off Louise! My God, it must be a dream! They wish to dishonor the maiden, they reserve for her the same fate as befell her unhappy mother. Oh, my brain reels!" 
                   
                  "Hold, captain," said Joseph, who rapidly regained his senses; "we should do well, to run to the cottage; for that damned Frederic d'Ormeuil, and the rest, said that the thing would take place to-morrow morning-it may be that, since I have discovered the plot, this very night, during your absence--" 
                  "Yes, yes, let us run," cried M. Morizot. "Death to them, if they have had the audacity-Oh, yes, I will kill them!" 
                  The chateau of M. Forestelle was soon left behind them. 
                  They walked swiftly through that same avenue of pines, whose foliage we described as illumined by the silvery rays of the moon. Without relaxing his pace, M. Morizot said to the secretary: 
                  "You have not yet given me any particulars. Was Ernest with his friends when you overheard their conspiracy?" 
                  "Oh, no, I do not accuse him; he is an honorable young man, and I am very certain that if he had been there--Hear how I discovered the secret. I had quitted the ball, where I was not comfortable. All the dandies looked on me with disdain, and the ladies were always engaged whenever I asked them to dance with me-the true reasons, captain, because I had not polished boots and yellow gloves. At last I concluded to take the air, and it was then that I formed the idea of walking in the gardens. On entering the alley of lime trees, I perceived M. Ernest regain the saloon-so you may see, captain, that he was not among the plotters. The others had awaited his departure to arrange the plan of their villany: it is evident." 
                  "Humph!" said M. Morizot, shaking his head; "never mind, go on." 
                  "An instant after, I heard, about two paces from me, whisperings and bursts of suppressed laughter. I approached, and heard a conversation that made me tremble. 'You well know the charming Louise,' said Frederic d'Ormeuil to a new comer, 'she who is named the Rose of the Valley.' 'Yes,' replied the other. 'Ah, well, it as all right; we have no more scruples, and we will carry her off.' 'When shall it be done?' 'Peste! as soon as possible; to-morrow, if an opportunity offers: for it seems they want to give her to that fool, Joseph Cornu.' You see, captain, they abused me finely.'' 
                  "Do not dwell on such trifling things; let us hear the result." 
                  "Carry her off?' said another; 'that is no easy task, and you will expose yourselves to the sabre of the grumbler.' Of the grumbler!-that is what they called you, my future father-Of the grumbler' the insolent scoundrels!" 
                  "Proceed," said M. Morizot. 
                  "Frederic d'Ormeuil then advanced a statement, of which I do not believe one word. Suspect mademoiselle Louise! She who is candour and virtue itself. Never! I lay my head against a block of wood, that I yet prove him to have lied like a dog." 
                  "You make me ready to die with impatience, with your slowness," cried the captain. 
                   
                  "In brief, to him who had threatened him with your sabre, Frederic d'Ormeuil replied: 'Never fear that; the lady's on our side. For the last two months, we have had the most delightful interviews with the lovely Rose; we have taught her to read. When the father is absent, we are notified-it is done by a little telegraphic signal. And to-morrow, if the good man quits the cottage, we will wait for the young girl in the vicinity of the Strasburg road. The diligence passes at eight o'clock in the evening-two seats inside, hurry the postillion-by day light we shall be over the frontier; and it would be the very devil, if, on the other side of the bridge at Kehl, and under the shades of the Black Forest, one could not prosecute his love affairs without disturbance.' At that moment, captain, I dashed like a fury into the midst of the circle; and, can you believe it, they had the impudence to mock at my angry reproaches. 'Eh! where do you spring from, M. Cornu?' 'What a mouth you make! you look like a madman.' 'Has a bee stung you, or do you dream and walk in your sleep?' Gentlemen, your hypocrisy increases your villany. 'Oh, oh,' said Frederic d'Ormeuil, 'I think M. Cornu insults us. Dame! the poor devil's afraid we shall pluck his rose.' 'Some one will furnish him with roses.' 'So then, monsieur Cornu, you are going to take a wife? The name you bear is an evil omen.' 'Good by, monsieur Cornu; our respects to madame Cornu.' 'Don't let her wear the breeches, monsieur Cornu.' And a thousand other indecent pleasantries, which they flung in my face. They then dispersed, one after the other; but, as for me, captain, I remained there-dumb with astonishment, and shedding the tears of despair." 
                  M. Morizot kept onward, plunged in a deep revery, and wiping away, at intervals, the sweat which ran down his temples in large drops. 
                  "Look you, good father," added the young man, with a trembling voice, "what think you of all this?" 
                  "I think, my lad, that Providence, by permitting you to discover the design of these wretches, has determined to save Louise; be calm, therefore-I am so." 
                  "So then, you are of my opinion, captain, that Frederic d'Ormeuil has uttered a scandalous lie. No, I cannot think that Louise--" 
                  M. Morizot interrupted him, taking him by the hand, and squeezing it with all his might. 
                  "If Louise were guilty, see you-if she were guilty, I would never trust any thing in this world again: I would not trust the word of an angel-I would not trust God himself!" 
                  "Oh, captain." 
                  "Yes, it is blasphemous, I know it. Eh bien! I will blaspheme and curse heaven itself, if heaven permits innocence to beam on a countenance, merely as a mask for deceit." 
                  "It is impossible!" cried Joseph. 
                  "Indeed, you are right, my friend, it is impossible. Louise, poor child, I am far from suspecting thy pure and gentle virtues. We have arrived at the cottage," continued M. Morizot, "now listen to me: the night is fine, and you have nothing to fear from either wolves or robbers, so you had better return to town." 
                  "Yes, captain. It is true my old aunt has not seen me return, and I am sure she is in anxiety." 
                  "That is not all, my lad: you know it will henceforth be impossible for me to leave home." 
                  "Par Dieu, take good care of it, captain." 
                  "I ought to go to Raon to draw the quarterly instalment of my pension out of the treasury: you will do me the favor to obtain the money, and give in exchange this receipt, which I have prepared." 
                  "Enough, good father. To-morrow, after my office is closed, I will hasten to bring you the money." 
                  "Good night, my lad," said the captain. 
                  Joseph took the road, which passed in front of the cottage. As to the old soldier, he opened the door, lit his lamp, and softly mounted the stairs leading to the garret. When near the chamber of Louise, he stopped and listened. All was still-he heard nothing but the breathing of the sleeping girl. 
                  "She sleeps," thought he, "she sleeps the sleep of angels. Oh, my daughter, for I feel an inexpressible joy in giving thee that name, may innocent visions alone surround thy pillow. Sleep on, dear child, sleep on: I watch over thee." 
                  The captain entered his chamber, which adjoined that of Louise. 
                  But it was impossible for M. Morizot to sleep during the remainder of the night. Slumber fled from his eyelids, and painful reflections obstinately presented themselves to his mind. 
                  After Joseph's narration, the captain had easily divined a thing which escaped the simple mind of his intended son-in-law. It was, that in this affair, Frederic d'Ormeuil was nothing more than the counsellor of Ernest Forestelle. The nephew of the merchant loved Louise, M. Morizot had not a doubt of it, and that was the secret of the young man's repugnance to the brilliant marriage which his uncle had projected. Forgetful of the principles of honor and delicacy, to which he had been Heretofore obedient, Ernest harkened to nothing but the voice of passion. The merchant would never permit him to marry a poor fortuneless girl; then he would run off with Louise, he would execute the plan traced out by a dissipated friend. The captain might well shudder to think that pure and gentle creature, whom he had so long cherished with paternal affection, would have been lost for ever, if accident had not led to the discovery of a shameful plot. But how had the love of Ernest been excited? Could it be possible that Louise had received secret visits from the young man? The captain could not believe it. If the heart of the young girl had been fixed upon another, she would certainly have rejected Joseph Cornu: therefore she did not love the nephew of M. Forestelle. Yet the assertions of Frederic d'Ormeuil were positive. Taking advantage of the captain's absence, a signal was to be made: if Louise is not guilty, she is at least deceived. 
                  M. Morizot thought over all the means which a young man like Ernest could have at his disposal to ensnare a credulous and inexperienced girl. He resolved to clear up his suspicions, and discover the means employed. Pretending to Louise that he must return to town, upon business which he had not been able to arrange on the preceding day, M. Morizot left the cottage, and took the road to Raon. But soon retracing his steps, he placed himself in a good position for observation, near his own house. 
                  It was not long before he perceived Louise wave, from her window, the white handkerchief, which Ernest could see from the chateau. 
                  In about a quarter of an hour the young girl and the merchant's nephew found themselves seated under the same arbor which had sheltered their previous meetings. Instantly approaching, without noise, and concealed by the dense foliage, the captain was enabled to hear every thing, without being visible. 
                  "M. Ernest," said Louise, with emotion, "my conduct until this day has been culpable, and I ought not to have accepted your kind offer to teach me to read and write. Yes, I am now sensible of it; I have been disobedient to the will of my father. Whatever may be the motives which induce him to keep me in ignorance, I ought to respect them." 
                  "So, then, Louise, I shall see you no more!" cried the young man, with anguish. 
                  "Yes, always, as usual. Only, when you cease to give me lessons, it will be useless for me to make a signal, and you can come without secrecy, whenever you think proper." 
                  "Louise, Louise! you plunge me in despair." 
                  "I plunge yon in despair, do you say? My God, how pale you look. Ah, you have reason; I forgot that you will soon be free no more. You are about to marry, monsieur Ernest?" 
                  "They have told you this news then, have they?" demanded the young man, with a trembling voice. 
                  "Yes-I have been informed by my father, that you are to espouse mademoiselle de Fontanges." 
                  "Undeceive yourself. She shall never be my wife. My uncle may disinherit me, he may drive me from his house-little do I care. I will not yield to him the right of tyrannising over my heart, and poisoning the remainder of my life, by forcing me to unite myself with mademoiselle de Fontanges, whom I do not love, whom I cannot love." 
                  The captain had a great mind to show himself. Nevertheless, reassured by the innocent language of Louise, he resolved to remain in concealment, and listen a little longer. 
                  "And why did you tell me yesterday that you were unhappy, monsieur Ernest?" responded the young girl. 
                   
                  "But you, Louise, you are happy--" 
                  "Happy," cried she, "when you suffer!" 
                  "My sorrows should not trouble your bosom," replied the young man with a bitter smile. "M. Joseph Cornu, perhaps, in the capacity of your intended spouse, would have the right to require an account of such compassion." 
                  "It is strange," said the young girl, "you tell me this with an air that I have never known you put on towards me before. If my betrothal does not please you, I will entreat my father to break it." 
                  "Indeed, Louise! then you do not love him for whom they destine you!" 
                  "Pardon me," she replied, "Joseph would be a good husband. Yet, if you must needs know all, I should be as well satisfied to remain as I am." 
                  "Poor child," cried the young man, "in your innocent simplicity, you do not understand the nature of your own impressions. No, Louise, you do not love your betrothed, you do not love him, I declare to you. Oh, could you but know what great joy this thought affords me." 
                  "So, then, you will be no more unhappy now?" said she with a tremulous voice; for Ernest had seized her hand, and passionately pressed it to his lips: and Louise, at this action of the young man, experienced an indescribable emotion through her whole being. 
                  M. Morizot stepped closer to the arbor, but still kept himself concealed. Our readers, perhaps, will consider that in this he showed too much forbearance. We answer, that the captain, a man of sense, evidently had reasons for allowing the conversation to be prolonged, with which we shall become acquainted more slowly. 
                  "Louise, hear me," replied Ernest, "and judge for yourself, whether I should obey my uncle by marrying mademoiselle de Fontanges. It would be the misery of my whole life, for I love another-another, whose simple virtues, and innocent graces, have charmed my heart. But she whom I love is poor, and they would never consent to my making her my wife. Judge of my despair! Oh, if I could be sure that she would deign to return my love. If in one of her looks, in one of her smiles, I could read hope!" 
                  "And why should she not love you, monsieur Ernest? You, so kind, so generous." 
                  "Why, Louise? Ah, it is because I have never dared to tell her of my love. It is because she is so calm and so lovely in her innocence, that, till now, I have scrupled to awaken in her bosom a sentiment which, perhaps, would prove her torture, as it has mine." 
                  "Do I know her?" asked the young girl, glancing timidly at Ernest. 
                  "Yes, Louise," he replied with agitation, at the same time drawing forth a paper hidden in his breast. "But stop-this letter will tell you her name. You will find expressed in it, all the emotions which my lips refuse to utter-for I tremble In her presence, and I can but imperfectly recite what my heart dictates. In this letter, Louise, I ask of you a favor-a favor on which depends the happiness of my existence. Oh, promise me you will grant it, Louise." 
                  With these words, he handed the letter to the young girl; but at that moment the captain appeared at the entrance of the arbor. 
                  Had a thunderbolt fallen at the feet of Ernest, it had caused him less alarm than this sudden apparition, at the very moment when he was attempting to consummate a seduction, against which all his upright and honorable principles had hitherto revolted. As for Louise, she sprang up, blushing and trembling from the oaken bench on which she had been sitting. M. Morizot, without seeming to observe her agitation, approached and tenderly embraced her; then turning towards the nephew of M. Forestelle: 
                  "If I am not mistaken, my children," said he, "you were in the course of making confidential disclosures, and chance has led me to hear part of your conversation. But I do not suppose, monsieur Ernest, that Louise has the power to be useful to you, and I think you will be wiser by placing yourself under my instruction. So then, my friend, just give me that letter, which doubtless indicates the nature of the service you require." 
                  Speaking in this way, M. Morizot snatched the letter, which Ernest still held in his hand, and the young man dared not make the least resistance. 
                  "Ho! ho!" cried the captain, "you will be much less timid with me. With men, all these manuvers become superfluous. To the devil with such bad writing!" 
                  And he tore the letter into a thousand fragments. 
                  "Mercy, captain, mercy!" cried the young man. "Such generosity--" 
                  "Tell me, Louise," interrupted M. Morizot, "do you know that it was not polite to let me go away without my breakfast? I felt this neglect while climbing the mountain: my stomach cried out like the very devil, and my legs refused to work. My faith, said I, we must return! A hungry stomach is no incentive to business. Prepare a cutlet for me very quickly, and a slice of ham. Go, my child, go, do not let me last long." 
                  Thus, he hurried Louise out of the arbor. Remaining alone with Ernest, M. Morizot cast upon him a look so full of reproach and sorrow, that the young man fell suppliant on his knees and exclaimed: 
                  "Pardon me, captain, oh! pardon me!" 
                  "Your fault is very great, Ernest. You see I know all. I am not even ignorant of the contents of that letter which I tore to pieces, to save you from the shame of having it read in your presence. You wanted to entice Louise into the borders of the Strasburg road: you wanted to carry off my child-my only joy-my only consolation on earth! You would, without compunction, have broken the heart of one who has shown you so much friendship-so much confidence! Hear me! I am about to relate to you my history-a terrible history which will warn you of all the evils which a seduction may occasion." 
                  Ernest was paler than death, and, perhaps, he would have preferred the anger of the captain to that touching goodness, which made him feel more sensibly the unworthiness of his conduct. 
                  "It all happened a long time ago," continued the old soldier, "yet my heart still bleeds. It is an incurable wound! I lived in this part of the country, Ernest, and I loved a young girl, pure and virtuous, as she whom you this day intended to seduce. This young girl was named Clemence: we were mutually engaged, and the day drew near on which the priest was to celebrate our marriage, when a decree of the Emperor separated me from my betrothed, and dragged me away to the icy steppes of Russia. At the moment of my separation from Clemence, as she burst into tears, at that melancholy parting hour, I said to her: Hear me! guard my memory fondly, and I will soon return decorated with the star of heroes! She promised me she would, alas! and I went to battle, Ernest. I like not to speak of myself! But on the field of battle at Moscow, Napoleon named me captain, and decorated me with his own hand." 
                  The old soldier, while pronouncing the name of the Emperor, uncovered his bald head. A tear trickled gently down his sun burnt cheek, and during some seconds, he maintained silence. 
                  "You know," he at last continued, "how disastrous was the close of that campaign. Harassed by the barbarous hordes-wasted with fatigue, and almost universally treated as an enemy, I was two years absent from France. But the remembrance of her I loved, sustained my courage. At last I returned. I ran to the home of Clemence, who lived with one of her relations, in Saint-Di. There, my friend, I received in my heart that wound of which I speak to you.-Clemence was seduced, dishonored, disgraced! She had forgotten our vows to listen to the language of seduction. A villain, a wretch-Jules Palaisseau was his name. I have sought that man every where, without ever being able to find him, to spit in his face, and challenge him to a duel that must end in the death of one of us!-That wretch, I say, employed the most artful means to deduce Clemence. At first, he put into her hands those dangerous books, which excite delirium of the imagination, perverting the principles, and corrupting the heart. Then he strived to convince her that the object of her first love had perished like many others, and been buried in the frozen North. But no sooner had he triumphed over the resistance of the unfortunate being, than he shamefully abandoned her, and disappeared. I returned to find Clemence expiring with sorrow and shame, after having given birth to a daughter--." 
                  "And that child?" demanded the young man, with a trembling voice, for he foresaw the conclusion of the narration in the looks of the captain. 
                  "That child, as you already divine,-that child was Louise" Standing by that bed of death, I had not the courage to curse her, but I promised Clemence that I would protect the poor creature she had brought into the world. I have faithfully performed my promise, by evincing unlimited affection for Louise, and shielding her from those dangers which ruined her unhappy mother. And you, Ernest, you to whom I attributed honorable sentiments--" 
                  "Oh! do not crush me, I conjure you!" 
                  "No my friend, your tears are a sufficient proof of your repentance. Misled by wicked counsels, you have erred for an instant: but you will return into the right path, and I fear no more attacks by you. M. Forestelle, you well know, is inflexible: he will never permit you to marry a portionless girl, whose birth, it must be avowed, is tarnished with shame." 
                  "But," cried the young man, "I love Louise! and M. Forestelle is not my father! What matters his consent? what matters his gold? I, also, am poor, captain, and I demand the hand of your adopted daughter." 
                  "Ernest," replied M. Morizot, in a grave and solemn tone: "the sacrifice you would accomplish to-day, you might regret hereafter, and the happiness of Louise is too precious to be exposed to danger by accepting an offer prompted by enthusiasm and passion. If, yesterday, before hearing the counsel of your friends, and preparing to execute it, you had asked me for the hand of my daughter, your cause would have been stamped with an air of nobleness and frankness which at this moment, it does not possess. I regret, Ernest, to be obliged to speak to you in this manner. Although my regard for you continues, I cannot yield you my confidence. Besides, Joseph Cornu has my word, and you are not ignorant that the word of an Imperial soldier is sacred!" 
                  The captain had concluded these words, and taken the young man affectionately by the hand, when Louise came to announce that breakfast was ready. 
                  At the sight of Ernest, all bathed in tears, she ran to him in an agitated manner, and inquired the cause of his grief. 
                  "My child," volunteered the captain, "M. Forestelle's nephew informs me that he is about to take a long journey, which will, doubtless, long detain him far from the Vosges. On the eve of parting with us, the sorrow he exhibits, proves that he reciprocates that friendship, of which we have given him so many evidences. Farewell, Ernest, my friend; take courage! you know your duty." 
                  "Yes I understand you," replied Ernest, in the midst of his sobs. "Adieu, Louise! adieu for ever!" 
                  And, throwing a last look upon the poor girl, whom these words had stricken to the heart, he departed in indescribable agitation. 
                  During the rest of the day, he roamed about in the most desolate places on the mountain, meditating whether he had not better put an end to his life, since Louise, and happiness were together lost. 
                   
                  Towards night, the domestics of his uncle's chateau, who had been ordered to make search, found him on the brink of a precipice, pale, out of breath, his hair in disorder, and measuring with his eye the profundity of the abyss beneath him. They brought him home in a state of frightful madness, and the same night, Ernest was attacked with inflammation of the brain, which reduced him to the verge of 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER III. 
                  NEARLY six weeks had elapsed since the occurrence of the events we have related. The warm breezes and mild showers of June, swept over the mountain gorges, and hastened to maturity the crops of the valley. Under the trenchant scythe of the peasant, the long grass fell with the flowers that bloomed among it; the white daisy, the sky-blue myosotis, and that dazzling ranunculus of the meadows, the golden button. Grass and flowers are heaped up together, with rakes, by troops of young brown-shouldered girls, who gaily frolic, and sing in chorus the songs of the hay-making. 
                  Joseph Cornu advanced along a road, bordered with high shrubs and thick hedges, which soon conducted him into the midst of that animated scene. 
                  We must needs say, that a great misfortune had happened to the poor secretary; for his cheeks, usually so blooming, had lost their lively color, and, more singular still, for the last two days he had not appeared in his office. The evening before, he went from Raon l'Etape to Saint-Di, expressly to interrogate Frederic d'Ormeuil. Resolved, at all hazards, to clear up his suspicions, he had overcome the repugnance he felt to asking an interview with that young coxcomb, whose derisive jocularities still rankled in his heart. From the friend of Ernest, Joseph learnt a thing which M. Morizot had not yet thought proper to divulge, and which redoubled the fears of the intended son-in-law to such a degree that, regardless of a letter from his patron, reproaching him severely for his first irregularity, he started next morning to the cottage, instead of returning to his work. There, he found neither the captain, nor his daughter; but the old domestic, whom they had left to guard the house, informed him that M. Morizot had gone to superintend the hay-harvest, and had taken Louise with him. 
                  Joseph Cornu, therefore, proceeded to the meadow. Thanks to the functions of his employer, the secretary of the justice of the peace was well known to all the mountaineers for five or six leagues around. As soon as he entered the field, he found himself surrounded by the mowers and hay-makers, who left their work to shake hands with him. 
                  "Good day, monsieur Joseph Cornu." 
                  "How is your health?" 
                  "And the love affairs and the marriage? Are there any impediments iments? The captain is as cross as a legion of devils, and mademoiselle becomes more melancholy every day." 
                  "See here," cried the hay-makers in their turn, "when shall you let us have a dance?" 
                  "I have bought a lace scarf." 
                  "And I a red petticoat." 
                  "It's not right to put off the wedding so long." 
                  To all these exclamations, to all these inquiries, the young man answered only by a melancholy sigh, and walked on towards M. Morizot, whom he perceived at some distance. 
                  "Ha! is it you?" cried the captain. 
                  Yes, good father." 
                  "And your office?" 
                  "My office," replied Joseph, "I trouble myself very little about, just now. The justice of the peace will scold, will be very angry. If he chooses, he may deprive me of my situation-but it is all the same whether one dies of hunger, or of any thing else-it is equally death." 
                  "Come, Joseph, show a little philosophy. You know, my lad, it is not my fault if your marriage is delayed. Really, you are wrong to afflict yourself in this way. Louise is sad-she invents pretexts, she creates delays-but it shall all be arranged, I promise you." 
                  Joseph shook his head with an air of incredulity. 
                  "Where is your daughter, captain? I must speak to her." 
                  M. Morizot pointed to a clump of alders and live aspens, which dipped their branches in a neighboring stream. Joseph Cornu approached this sort of oasis, where dwelt a delightful coolness. He found the young girl seated in the shade. On the grass by her side she had laid down her large straw hat and light hay-rake. Louise seemed wrapt in profound revery. She rested her feet in the flowing waters, which whirled around in playful eddies, and caressed with their white foam the green leaves and large flower of the water-lily. 
                  At the secretary's approach, Louise raised her head and shuddered. Her face became almost immediately of an ashy paleness; yet she extended her hand to the young man. He gently pressed that hand in his own, and murmured in a voice that trembled with emotion: 
                  "Louise, it is now more than a month, since you engaged to be my wife; yet, every day, you beg me to wait-you incessantly find new reasons to retard our marriage. Ah, well! I must now lay my heart open to you. All this proves that I was deceived in imagining that you loved me. Was I not, Louise? Fear nothing. I must show a little philosophy, as the captain just said, and if you do not love me, it would be kinder to extinguish my hopes at once, than to destroy them one by one. That would make my sufferings too great to be borne." 
                  The tone in which Joseph Cornu delivered these words, deeply affected the young girl. 
                  "You have the promise of my father," she replied; "you can your self fix the day of our union,-I will obey." 
                   
                  "But it is not enough for you to obey," cried the secretary, "it is important that you should acknowledge why you have interposed delays to the celebration of our marriage; why you are so sad and thoughtful; for look you, Louise, I wish not to buy my happiness at the price of a solitary tear of yours." 
                  "Oh," said the young girl, "you have a noble heart. I shall learn to love you, Joseph, for you deserve to be loved; only, I conjure you, have a little patience." 
                  "Alas!" the poor youth replied, "my suspicions were just; you do not love me; and if you wait until love comes, we are not at the end of our troubles. One party must be injured. I was very silly to imagine that you could have affection for me. I am nothing but a mountaineer slightly polished. I have a good heart, to be sure; but a good heart alone, without the advantages of talent and education, without fine manners, without dress, is a very small matter in the eyes of women." 
                  "Ah! monsieur," said the young girl, casting on him a look full of reproach. 
                  "I know," continued Joseph, "that you have not a shade of coquetry. You are a simple daughter of the mountains, gentle, timid, innocent; but you can see as clearly as another, Louise; and you have been enabled to make comparisons not at all to my advantage." 
                  With these words he regarded her fixedly. She trembled, blushed, and her agitation completely subdued the young man, who until then had not lost all hope. 
                  He placed his hand upon his heart, to repress its violent pulsations. 
                  As to the adopted daughter of the captain, she saw with terror that Joseph had discovered the secret of her heart-that secret which she had been so slow to comprehend herself, and which the parting words of M. Forestelle's nephew had revealed to her with the rapidity of the lightning, that rends the dark veil of the thunder-cloud. Louise having divined that Ernest loved her, felt, almost immediately, in her turn, that she loved him, and from that moment dreaded the thought of her approaching union. The captain observed the repugnance of the young girl, and induced her to confess her secret, with that paternal kindness which he had so uniformly displayed. To combat her love, he made use of those arguments whose justice the mind admits, but the heart vigorously opposes. Louise promised to follow her father's counsels, only entreating him to give her time to forget. This was contrary to the opinion of M. Morizot, who reasonably thought that marriage and the tenderness of a young husband would be the most infallible means of forgetfulness. Yet he was unwilling to violate the sorrow of Louise, and often he even assisted the young girl to color, with artful pretexts, the obstacles which she opposed to the consummation of her union with Joseph Cornu. But that personage, in spite of the captain's precautions, was not slow to comprehend the true cause of the delay. The unfortunate secretary had already read his doom on the countenance of the young girl, for that countenance knew no deceit; and if he again came to interrogate Louise, it was in order to obey that imperious voice, which, under the most terrible apprehensions of disappointment, and amid the greatest misfortunes of existence, cries incessantly in the ear of man-"Hope!" 
                  For some minutes Joseph and the captain's daughter kept mournful silence. 
                  "Louise," at length the young man continued, "I took a step yesterday, which has cost me a great deal. Yet I no longer regret it, since it has enabled me to bring you news of M. Ernest." 
                  "What do you say?" cried the young girl, blushing scarlet. 
                  "Oh, do not disturb yourself, mademoiselle; and above all, do not think that there is a snare in my words. I know that M. Ernest Forestelle is enamored of you, and I believe, moreover, that I have discovered the cause of your grief; for many nights have I passed in reflection. At first I was jealous; I experienced the transports of rage; and if I closed my eyes a few moments, I instantly dreamed of blood. It was very hard to renounce you without breaking my heart. At last I said to myself, Do you sincerely love the captain's daughter? Yes. Then you should, above all things else try to make her happy; otherwise your love would be nothing but selfishness. You now understand the reason why I have desired to penetrate the mystery you concealed from me, mademoiselle. If the object of your affections had been that Frederic D'Ormeuil, I would have killed him without remorse, for he is unworthy of you. But since it is M. Ernest whom you love, Louise, I have no more to say, and I clearly see that you prefer him to me." 
                  Whilst the secretary spoke thus, the young girl at first rose, pale and trembling; but as soon as she comprehended the sublimity of Joseph's love-as soon as she saw all that was noble and truly good in his conduct-she reproached herself with the sufferings she had made that generous heart endure. 
                  "Joseph," she said, "I am very culpable towards you. I have delayed the execution of a solemn and sacred promise. Yes, I must confess, I love M. Ernest; but I know not how that love has been implanted in my heart. When I wanted to resist it, it was too late. But now Ernest is gone-I shall never see him again-absence will close this wound-and, Joseph, if you still think me worthy to be your wife, here is my hand. I could not yield it to one more justly entitled to universal esteem." 
                  "Stop, Louise, stop! Poor child, do you think, then, that love can be so easily blotted out, and disappear? Oh, no, Louise, I understood it too well. God forbid that I should accept the sacrifice. Yet, when you have heard what remains to be told, if you still persevere in the same sentiments-if you still say to me, 'Here is my hand!'-I will accept, Louise, with intoxicating pleasure; and I will love you so, my God! I will love you so, that it will be almost impossible to dislike me." 
                   
                  "Speak," said the young girl, turning towards the secretary her lovely eyes, bathed in tears. 
                  "Well, then, know that M. Ernest has not gone away, as they have allowed you to believe, doubtless intentionally." 
                  The captain's daughter became still more pale, and her knees failed to support her. 
                  "Look you!" said Joseph, with an accent of sorrow, "you are thinking of nothing now but that you may perhaps see him again. I said truly, Louise, love cannot be cured." 
                  The young girl buried her face between her hands, and dared not look on her betrothed. 
                  "That is not all," continued the secretary, who struggled violently to overcome his emotion. "As I told you, I have visited Frederic d'Ormeuil. He knows that I detest him, and seeing that I demanded revelations, he strived to make such as might harrow my feelings. I have learnt from him that M. Ernest asked the captain for your hand, and that, rendered desperate by refusal, the poor young man resolved to terminate his existence by precipitating himself from the Black-Rock to the bottom of the abyss which lies at the side of the main road over the mountain." 
                  "Great God!" cried Louise, with agitation. 
                  "Compose yourself; his uncle's domestics arrived in time to save him from that act of despair. The anguish of losing you has caused him a serious illness, for he loves you to distraction. But be not alarmed, Louise, be not alarmed. He is now thoroughly convalescent. Well, do you still consent to be my wife? Have you sufficient courage to forget M. Ernest, whose love for you has led him almost to the gates of death? You do not answer, Louise. You weep' Nothing now remains but for me to do my duty. You would both suffer: it is much more natural that I should suffer alone. Come, Louise, come. It will surely not depend on me to remove all the obstacles which oppose your marriage with M. Ernest. Yet there is one that I can destroy this very hour." 
                  Saying this, Joseph Cornu took the hand of the young girl, who had not strength to pronounce a word, and led her towards that part of the meadow where M. Morizot was. 
                  "Captain, my conscience bids me release you from a promise made in happier days, Therefore, from this moment Mademoiselle Louise is free to espouse another." 
                  And Joseph hastily retired, without awaiting the response of the old soldier, whom this blunt declaration struck with astonishment. 
                  M. Morizot had not the severity to reproach his daughter, for the unhappy child looked so pale and dejected that she excited his compassion rather than his anger. 
                  The captain abandoned the superintendence of the mowers, to take Louise home to the cottage. Going along he ascertained the motives which had prompted the conduct of Joseph Cornu. 
                   
                  "Poor youth!" said me captain; "excellent heart! What a son-in-law have I lost! But God's will be done; let us say no more about it." 
                  Towards night, Louise and her father were seated in that same room which we described to our readers. The supper, cooked by old Madeleine, was served up on the table; but M. Morizot and his daughter had not touched it. The one abandoned herself to melancholy reflections, the other, in his own heart, addressed to himself reproaches which silence expressed more eloquently than language. 
                  Suddenly many voices were heard, as of persons advancing towards the cottage, and presently the lumber merchant appeared at the garden gate, accompanied by Madame Forestelle and Ernest, who obstinately refused to enter the captain's house. 
                  "Come, my dear," said the kind aunt, "our walk has been long, and you must need rest." 
                  "Can you comprehend this whim of my nephew?" cried M. Forestelle, who had entered the room. "He refuses to bid you good evening, M. Morizot: you who have visited him five or six times during his sickness. It is an incredible thing, and it must certainly be as they say that his brain has been injured by severe affliction." 
                  In the meantime, Ernest, induced by the authority of his aunt, advanced to the threshold of the door. His form bore traces of the terrible malady which had nearly reduced him to the grave. At the sight of these evidences of suffering, Louise could not restrain a heart-rending cry, and ran to embrace the young man. But the captain, rising from his seat, arrested her, and said in an imperious tone, 
                  "I command you, Louise, to go to your chamber!" 
                  Madame Forestelle heard this positive injunction of the old soldier. 
                  "Come, captain," she said, "do not put on such a dignified air Whilst you converse with Ernest and my husband, Louise shall show me the curiosities of your flower-garden. Will you not, my child?" she continued, linking arms with the young girl. 
                  Then whispering in the ear of M. Morizot-"Ernest has disclosed, all to me. Be prudent: his uncle knows little or nothing about it yet." 
                  With these words she started out with Louise. 
                  Meanwhile, the invalid, too feeble to bear such lively emotions, drop ped on a bench in a state of exhaustion, which made them fear that he was senseless. 
                  "It is nothing," said M. Forestelle. "Listen, captain, I have a, certain vial in my pocket. Peste! we are obliged to carry about a complete apothecary's shop! There, see how he revives-the salts of that vial would reanimate a corpse. And when I think that it is love that, has reduced him to such a state, I must declare that it is absurd. My wife has whispered me a few words on this subject, and I can tell you in confidence, that he loves some peasant girl of the neighborhood!" 
                  "My uncle-oh! for pity's sake, hush!" cried the invalid, clasping, his hands in a supplicating manner. 
                   
                  "And why should I not relate your follies, my handsome Amadis, my languid Don Quixotte?" replied M. Forestelle, bursting into laughter. I would like to know your Dulcinea! I expect I should see a plump girl, rosy and playful. Really, captain, there are pleasant girls, very pleasant. But then, you know, a young man who has in prospect an inheritance of more than a million, may be permitted to have a love affair, a fancy for a peasantess-but as for marrying her! such a one has not common sense. Stop, I will tell you a tale-oh! dame, it is an old historymdash;I Was then in the halcyon days of youth. You know I have been married thirty-seven years! I remember a pretty lass-lovely as possible! She lived in one of the faubourgs of Saint-Die." 
                  "Of Saint-Die!" repeated the captain, fixing his flashing eyes on M Forestelle. 
                  "Yes. What is their to surprise you in that." 
                  "Nothing," said the old soldier; "go on!" 
                  Ernest arose from the bench, and his heart beat as though it would burst from his bosom; for he remembered the mournful history which M. Morizot narrated to him six weeks before. 
                  "I should then tell you," pursued M. Forestelle:-" ah! first you must know that her name was Clemence--" 
                  "At length!" shouted the captain, towering to his full height, in front of the frightened merchant. 
                  "What the devil do you mean?" said Ernest's uncle, stepping quickly back from his seat. 
                  M. Morizot, almost suffocated with rage, was some time without uttering a word. At last, he cried in a voice of thunder: 
                  "And you villain!-you assumed the name of Jules Palaisseau! Know the cause of the discovery! You seduced Clemence, my affianced-you made her a mother, and then abandoned her to her miserable fate. It is nearly nineteen years since she expired in my arms, cursing her infamous seducer with her latest breath. On your knees! on your knees, I tell you! and make your dying prayer to Heaven-for we must fight-do you hear? Arms are at hand, and I have too long cherished my plan of vengeance to let an opportunity sent by God, escape me!" 
                  The anger of the captain raged with frightful violence. Mme. For estelle and Louise heard the clamor, and hastened into the house. 
                  "I conjure you," said Ernest, rushing towards M. Morizot, Who had seized the terror stricken merchant by the arm, and held it with an iron grasp. "I conjure you to forbear! What a scandalous scene before my aunt and that young girl-And then, you are in your own house captain! The man who is under our roof, claims some regard, though he were our mortal enemy, and, for own sakes, we should respect his person." 
                  Yes, you are right, M. Ernest," murmured the old soldier, releasing the arm of M. Forestelle. "And then," he added, while wiping away the hot swout from his brow, "I do not want Louise to know that that wretch is her father!" 
                  "Mercy on me! what is going on here?" demanded Ernest's aunt, whilst the young man went to take Louise by the hand, and conduct her before the dismayed merchant. 
                  "My uncle" said he, in a respectful but firm voice; "behold the girl I love! A man of honor has it always in his power to repair a fault-and without entering into particulars which you probably divine-without informing you of the precise period of the death of Louise's mother-yes, my uncle, I perceive you understand me, and I throw myself at your knees, supplicating you to permit me to espouse the daughter -- of the captain." 
                  M. Forestelle felt an icy chill run through his heart. He turned away his eyes from Louise, on whom he had rested them an instant with indescribable anguish, and looked at the old soldier. The latter then was completely exhausted, and the lumber merchant, who struggled between avarice, and the desire of preventing an exposure of his villany in the presence of his wife, replied to Ernest: 
                  "The time for making such a request, is badly chosen-I will see. I will reflect." 
                  "For my part, monsieur," replied the young man, "my reflections are all made. If you do not make amends for an odious -- injustice, this very day, I declare that I will withdraw myself from your guardianship, and never again darken your door." 
                  Ernest, my dear Ernest!" cried his good aunt, alarmed at such bold language; "your threats will only serve to irritate your uncle.-Eh! but in fact, I approve of it!" she continued, "on reflection, I will not suffer my son to be killed, I have none other! If you refuse to grant his prayer, we will sue for a divorce! You know, monsieur, that we were married under the regime of the communaute; consequently I am entitled to half your fortune, and will share it, I swear, with these children." 
                  "But this is a plot!" cried the miser: "this is a conspiracy resolve upon beforehand! Who can assure me, after all, that this young girl--No, no! that wont do! you forget, madam, that there must be causes for a divorce. I shall remain the sole master of my fortune, and my dear nephew would do well to espouse her for whom I destine him, or else-- 
                  The merchant could not finish, for M. Morizot revived from his weakness, marched up to him, animated with the same choler that had already so much terrified Ernest's uncle. 
                  "Begone!" he thundered forth, "begone, sirrah! I can no longer restrain myself." 
                  The young man, Louise and madame Forestelle, rushed before the old soldier. The lumber merchant, yielding to his terror, made ready to quit the cottage; but he was arrested by Joseph Cornu, who, for the last few moments, had witnessed the scene, without any one's observing his presence. 
                  "Halt there!" said the secretary of the justice of the peace, unceremoniously taking M. Forestelle by the collar. "I am now, as you may see, a soldier of the army of Africa, and I like not deserters. Look you, what is the matter? If I am not deceived, you refuse to let your nephew marry the captain's daughter, and that, under the frivolous pretext that the poor child has no dowry. Ah, well, undeceive yourself, monsieur of the English machinery. I have been to Saint-Die, where I had a few words to say to a recruiting officer-a worthy officer, my faith, who made me drink champagne in the caf at Strasburg. There, I accidentally heard that the famous lottery was drawn to-day at your banker's you know, millionaire of my heart." 
                  "In fact," said M. Forestelle, "I ought to have assisted at the drawing, but I thought it more fitting--" 
                  "Oh! who wants to know the lucky number?" cried Joseph Cornu on whom the champagne had had a singular effect.  Number EIGHTEEN! Mademoiselle Louise has won the chateau! Long live mademoiselle Louise! Long has won the chateau! Long live the soldiers of Africa!" 
                  A general cry of astonishment followed this announcement. 
                  "I hope," continued Joseph, "that there will be no further obstacle to the marriage. Farewell, captain-farewell, mademoiselle Louise-and do you, monsieur Ernest, make her very happy." 
                  With these words, the poor youth burst into tears." 
                  "No, my brave Joseph," said M. Morizot, pressing the young man affectionately to his heart; "neither I, nor my daughter will accept such a sacrifice." 
                  "Who speaks of sacrifice? There has not been any sacrifice, understand you, captain. The lottery list bore, in full letters, the name of mademoiselle Louise Morizot. The chateau could not be adjudged to any one but her; reclamation would be impossible. Eh! par la corbleu! I well knew what I could do. Only, M. Ernest, if it is the poor sawyers. That will be a good deed." 
                  Lousie extended her hand to Joseph, and said to him, sobbing the while; 
                  'Atleast, do not go away-stay with us." 
                  "No, Louise-no, my sister-for you are now no more to me than a sister. But dame! I must leave this place for a while. I will go to battle-it is as good a means of distraction as any, and I also want to win the cross. Then, Louise, I promise you, I will return. I promise you, captain; and we will talk over our campaigns together. Once more, farewell!" 
                  Joseph Cornu left the country, it being impossible to detain him. 
                  A month after his departure, the marriage of Louise and Ernest was celebrated in the village church. 
                
               THE END. 
             
             
               PHILOSOPHY OF LOVE. 
                
                   
                  CHAPTER I. 
                   
                     Love Defined-The Elements of Love-The Origin of Jealousy-Jealousy Described-The Sensual Element in Love-Love, why the most engrossing of all Passions. 
                   
                  LOVE sometimes signifies a liking for any thing-more properly, it means any benevolent affection towards our fellow creatures, varying form the most indiscriminate and weak, to the most concentrated and strong; but in a peculiar sense it marks the most ardent and engrossing of all passions, that which exists between the sexes. When taken for any benevolent affection, love certainly constitutes one of the principal elements of human happiness; for there is always a pleasure in loving, as well as in, being loved; and sometimes an intense pleasure. The feeling may be very permanent; and, in some shape or other, it runs throughout all society, Thus it is a source of enjoyment, at once keen, durable, and comprehensive. 
                  Love consists of at least two elements: first, a certain pleasure derived from the presence of the beloved object; or simply from reflecting upon it: and secondly, a desire of its good. These elements are essential; for wherever these are, there is love; and wherever these are not, there is none. Another desire is very often connected with the above-always, indeed, when love is limited to certain individuals-and that is desire of being loved in return. Whoever loves another, wishes to possess his affections-nay, often to monopolize them. This, as we shall find, makes an essential difference between general and individual ties, not only in the nature of the compound feeling, but also in its, consequences. The desire which forms an element of general benevolence, belongs to the social class; but the desire of securing the affections of others for ourselves, cannot be ranked under the same category. It evidently belongs to the self-regarding class; and by it, therefore, self enters into love, which before was a purely social affection. This is a most important circumstance; for it serves to explain many peculiarities which otherwise could not be accounted for. It explains, for instance, the origin of jealousy, which, like the shadow to the substance, attaches to every modification of individual love, and grows with the form that casts it; for, the greater the love, the darker can be the jealousy, in a mind whose moral organism will allow more than a transient existence to a passion so unholy. Because jealousy is more marked in the case of love between the sexes, it may sometimes have been thought to be confined to it: but this is quite a mistake, since every private attachment is subject to the same unhappy passion. Only, as no love can be compared with that between man and woman, in intensity, so no jealousy can come near that of distrustful lovers. 
                  Jealousy, of whatever kind, comprehends two element. 1. A fear of being deprived by another of something which we consider ours by right. 2. A feeling of ill-will towards the person who is the cause of the injury. Thus, fear, and a malevolent desire, are the essential elements of the passion. Now, in every private love, what we fear to lose, is the affection of an individual, which we look upon as our own. From this it is evident, that it is through the self-regarding desire that jealousy enters into love. So long as the social alone prevails, there can be no occasion for jealousy. 
                  In every variety of private attachment, we have thus discovered three elements; but love, properly so called, comprehends yet another. To the pleasure derived from beholding, or thinking on the object; to the wish for its good; and to the wish for its affections, must now be added another desire, of a nature so powerful, that the word desire, sometimes used to signify this alone. As by the third element, self entered into every particular Love, so by the fourth, sense now enters also. By this last element, sexual love is distinguished from other species or variety. 
                  Thus, at last, we have a feeling of a very mixed nature, comprising at least four simple feelings, all different from each other, but still agreeing in this:-that each is full of pleasure. To form this delightful compound, nature has called from various herbs and flowers, their most luscious and intoxicating essences. Emotion and sense, the social and the selfish, the affection and the imagination, the refined and the voluptuous, all unite to compose and season this enchanted mixture. Here all the tenderness of our soul, all our social longings, all our selfish and sensual propensities, are pound in one cup. We quaff the potion, and instantly our desires are concentrated in one subject, for whom alone we think, feel, move and live. Quid nisi in unitate acquiescent unus? Ah! happy love! happy, if it would but last! This concentration of feeling is beautifully expressed by Shakspeare:  
                        
                            
                              Oh, she hath a heart of that fine frame, 
                              To pay this debt of love but to a brother. 
                              How will she love, when the rich golden shaft 
                              Hath killed the flock of all affections else 
                              That live in her: when liver, brain and heart, 
                              These sov'reign thrones, are all supplied and filled 
                              (Her sweet perfections) with one self king. 
                           
                         
                        Twelfth Night-Act I. 
                     
                   
                  This is undoubtedly the most violent, and the most engrossing of all the passions; and if unsatisfied, it may be very permanent, ending only with life. Religious enthusiasm seems to come next to it in intensity. Though all the passions may occasionally occupy the whole man, yet these two have a greater tendency to do so, as is proved by their effects; for none else can so upset the mind or body, The difference between them is seen in this:-that unsatisfied love peculiarly affects the body, while religious enthusiasm chiefly preys upon the mind. To die of love is by no means an unexampled occurrence; and instances of religious madness are frequent. The sensual desire which forms a part of love, readily explains, the peculiar way in which it acts; for, though people kill themselves for love, or pine away from it till they die, they do not often run mad on that account. Unless we except intense and unexpected joy, no emotion has such an effect on the bodily health, as love. Shakspeare, in a celebrated passage, has beautifully expressed the effects of a hopeless passion.  
                        
                            
                              "She never told her love, 
                              But let concealment, like a worm i' the bud, 
                              Feed on her damask cheek: she pined in thought; 
                              And with a green and yellow melancholy, 
                              She sat, like patience on a monument, 
                              Smiling at grief." 
                           
                         
                        Twelfth Night-Act II. 
                     
                   
                  Nothing can more clearly show the engrossing nature of love, than effect in blinding the judgment, and even setting at nought the evidence of the senses. It may so overpower the whole man, that he cannot understand, feel, or even see like any one else. 
                         
                           "The lover, all as frantic, 
                           Sees Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt;" 
                        
                      so completely is the object of his affections metamorphosed by fancy. This delusion is, no doubt, exceedingly blissful while it lasts; and could it be continued, nothing would be wanting to happiness. For love, which, at one time, is the most turbulent of affections, is, at another, the most calming. In the former stage, it is full of the most violent perturbations, of boisterous hopes and fears, succeeding with marvellous rapidity, so as to make the mind one whirlwind: in the latter, where all fear is at an end, it becomes the most full and perfect satisfaction, of which our nature can admit. Love that ends well, is like a mountain way, animating, sublime, but terrific, conducting us through awful chasms, and along the edges of lofty precipices, till last it brings us to a valley, happy as that of Abyssinia. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER II. 
                   
                     Influence of Love upon the mind-How it differs in different individuals-Of the difference between the love of man and woman-Characteristics of woman's love. 
                   
                  THIS passion has long been a fruitful theme for poets and novelists, who have thrown around it every charm which incident or language could bestow; well knowing that no subject can possibly be found more interesting. Assuredly these writers would not have dwelt so much upon love, had they not been aware that the chord once struck, would meet with a response in every bosom; and that no other music is so truly grateful to the soul. But, however much they may have labored to embellish the strain, they could not surpass that original harmony of which theirs was but a copy. Love has really existed upon earth, fully as intense and profound as ever poets could feign; and living Hamlets and Othellos have trod the stage of the world. These words of Othello, looking towards Desdemona, express no fanciful affection: 
                         
                           Excellent wench! Perdition catch my soul,- 
                           But I do love thee! and when I love thee not, 
                           Chaos is come again. 
                        
                     
                   
                  Hamlet says to Lrtes, who had been boasting of his fraternal love: 
                         
                           
                              I loved Ophelia; forty thousand mothers 
                           Could not, with all their quantity of love, 
                           Make up my sum. 
                        
                     
                   
                  These lines serve to illustrate the excessive fervour of the affection. The following show the full and perfect satisfaction which attends it. 
                   
                  Othello to Desdemona, on first meeting with her after their separation at sea:  
                        
                            
                              O, my soul's joy! 
                              If after every tempest come such calms, 
                              May the winds blow till they have wakened death! 
                              --if it were now to die, 
                              'Twere to be most happy; for I fear, 
                              My soul hath her content so absolute 
                              That not another comfort like to this 
                              Succeeds in unknown fate-- 
                              I cannot speak enough of this content, 
                              It stops me here; it is too much of joy, [Kissing her.
                               
                              And this, and this, the greatest discords be, 
                              That e'er our hearts shall make. 
                           
                         
                        Act II. 
                     
                   
                  If there be any thing else an earth capable of giving this inexpressible contentment, it is religion. When in this state, the mind of the lover is so filled with delight, that he feels no wants, nor desires of any kind; and is proof against numberless annoyances which might otherwise destroy his peace. He abandons himself to enjoyment with alloy, and tastes on earth the blessedness of Heaven. To constitute that heaven, duration alone is wanting, at least to our conceptions, for imagination can picture no happiness greater than that of successful Love. 
                  2d. Though the passion of love seems always to comprehend the four elements above mentioned,-yet it may present a considerable variety of appearances according to the proportion in which these elements are mixed; and this difference of proportion will sufficiently account for all the modifications it may assume, without supposing any other change in the component parts. Thus, in one man, the sensual desire may be the strongest, in a second, the wish for the affections; while in a third, the social desire may predominate; and whatever be the ruling desire, since it may exceed the others in a greater or less degree, the compound can thus be infinitely diversified. This will account for the doubt which we sometimes hear expressed whether such a person be or be not susceptible of real love for those who have very elevated and refined ideas of the affection, are unwilling to believe that it can ever be felt by the grossly sensual. Nor, can it exactly, in their sense of the word; for what these last experience, though composed of the very same elements, differs so widely to the proportions, that it might almost pass for a separate species; but in truth, it is only a variety. So long as the four elements are found at all, we may say that love exists; but if any be utterly wanting, we must adopt another term. Thus, lust is specifically distinguished from love. 
                  The most constant variety to be met with, is that between man's and woman's love. We have before remarked that women are more refined than men, and we should therefore suppose that this difference in character would show itself particularly in that passion, so important to the female heart. It has been observed by Madame de Stael, that love, which forms but an episode in the life of man, often occupies great part of woman's. Women are undoubtedly more constant than men, and not only are less given to change the object of their affections, but they can feel warmly for a greater length of time. This, in all probability, depends upon a difference in the nature of their love, and especially upon this, that the sensual desire is comparatively weak in them, while the social is not only relatively but absolutely stronger than in men. Sometimes the wish for the happiness of the object, and sometimes the wish for its affections, may be the predominant feeling; but sense is rarely supreme. And as those refined inclinations are commonly more lasting than the gross, we need not be surprised that the love in which they prevail should better stand the test of time. 
                  But whatever may be thought of this explanation, the fact, I conceive, is certain, that female love is peculiarly constant, durable, refined, and self-denying, willing to make the greatest sacrifices for the sake of the happiness of another. It is retiring, tender, benificent, and confiding rather than passionate; though on fit occasions it can display the greatest energy. 
                  In the very enthusiasm of love, Juliet is made to say: 
                         
                           Thou knowest the mask of night is on my face; 
                           Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek 
                           For that which thou hast heard me speak to night. 
                        
                     
                      Soon after she says: 
                         
                           In truth, fair Montague, I am too fond; 
                           And therefore thou may'st think my 'havior light; 
                           But trust me, gentleman, I'll prove more true 
                           Than those that have more cunning to be strange. 
                        
                     
                   
                  What a picture of enthusiastic attachment have we in the following lines: 
                         
                           My bounty is as boundless as the sea, 
                           My love as deep; the more I give to thee, 
                           The more I have, for both are infinite, 
                           And of devotedness in these: 
                           If that thy bent of love be honourable, 
                           Thy purpose marriage send me word to-morrow. 
                            
                           Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite; 
                           And all my fortunes at thy feet I'll lay 
                           And follow thee, my lord, throughout the world. 
                        
                     
                   
                  The scene closes thus: 
                         
                           Good night, good night! parting is such sweet sorrow. 
                           That I shall say good night till it be to-morrow. 
                        
                     
                   
                  The character of Helena presents us with an instance of love, at once the most ardent, constant, and self-denying: 
                         
                           I know I love in vain, strive against hope, 
                           Yet in this captious and inteniblesieve 
                           I still pour in the waters of my love, 
                           And look not to lose still. 
                        
                     
                   
                  In Portia, We behold love, dignified, pliant, confiding, and disinterested; all which qualities are marked in her famous speech, beginning with: 
                         
                           You see me, Lord Bossanio, where I stand, 
                           Such as I am. 
                        
                     
                   
                  But the passage is too long for insertion, I may conclude these quotations illustrative of female love, by one from the second book of Samuel: "l am distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan: very pleasant hast thou been unto me: thy love to me was wonderful, passing the love of women." 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER III. 
                   
                     Love, during the middle ages-Love with the Italians-Jealousy, its nature and origin-Effects of Jealousy upon Love-Unjust suspicion, a cause of Jealousy-Peculiar circumstances favorable to Jealousy. 
                   
                  DURING the middle ages in Europe, there grew up a singular passion for the fair sex, half real, half effected. Every chivalrous knight considered it quite as indispensable to have a favored lady in his eye, as to possess a horse and armor; and in want of a real flame, he was bound at least to feign one. There can be no doubt that this practice had an exceedingly civilizing and refining influence, and not only tempered the rude manners of that age, but has left a lasting effect on modern society, where women hold a more important rank, and are treated with more deference and respect, than among the most polished nations of antiquity. Before a knight could pretend to any favors from his fair one, he was obliged to distinguish himself in some bold adventure; and thus his love was stimulated by difficulty, fed by hope, and unsatiated by possession. 
                  Under the warm and poetical sky of Italy, this passion for the fair sometimes melted into a fanciful, dreamy, sentimental affection, such as we see depicted by the early poets of that country, particularly Dante and Petrarch. Though Petrarch be most celebrated for this kind of love, yet his was by no means a singular case, for Dante and others partook of the same; and if one had his Laura, the other had his Beatrice. Many laugh at this visionary passion, and even Petrarch was a skeptic in regard to love as an enduring and deep principle of the human soul, until his own experience subdued him effectually tually to the faith. But such a feeling, purified from the rapture and vehement desires of a more earthly passion, is possible, though only to natures of singular depth and exaltation. Supposing it to exist, it must be that state of feeling nearest approaching to heavenly joy of which the human soul can conceive. Whoever has known such a state, would exchange it not, for aught else this world can bestow. 
                  But over love, as it really exists in a perverted and unthinking world, lies ever the dark shadow of jealousy. We have already explained the nature of this passion, and shown that while in pure benevolence, it can have no place; when self is regarded, it may spring up. Fear, and a malevolent desire are its component parts; and in the case of love, it is the affections and the exclusive possession of the person which we fear to lose; consequently, in a supremely selfish and unchristian heart, the stronger the love. (though to such a one, love in its highest significance is a thing unknown,) the darker will be the jealously; and should we suspect that the very object of our affections may be herself in league against us, a sudden revulsion of feeling will follow, whereby love itself shall change to hate. 
                  Though this effect cannot be brought about suddenly, and at once, yet experience too sadly testifies that such a result is not uncommon. Jealousy, however, within certain limits, is often said to faster love, inasmuch as we never value anything so much as when we have actually lost it, or even fear to lose it; so the fear, which is an element of jealousy, causes us to cling to our affection with redoubled ardor. The same principle explains the effects of absence, for absence is both a change and privation. To a certain extent, then, it is probable that jealousy does encourage love; but, when carried far, extinguishes it altogether. Even when jealousy is at an end, and hate becomes the predominant passion, love still enters at times; for an affection once strong, cannot be utterly destroyed, in a moment, even by proofs of unfaithfulness. Long and bitter must be the struggle, before the love that has once folded its wings, and nestled softly in the bosom, can be rejected. The mind, like the physical being, is very liable to a relapse; and thus in the intervals of indignation, love will still recur, as so well depicted in Othello, who, even on the point of executing his deadly purpose, whispers- 
                         
                           Yet I'll not shed her blood, 
                           Nor scar that whiter skin, of her's than snow, 
                           And smooth as monumental alabaster. 
                            
                           When I have plucked thy rose, 
                           I cannot give it vital growth again; 
                           It needs wither. I'll smell it on the tree: [Kissing her.
                            
                           Oh, balmy breath, that dost almost persuade 
                           Justice to break her sword! One more-one more. 
                           Be thus When thou art dead, and I Will kill thee 
                           And love thee after. One more, and this the last. 
                           So sweet was ne'er so fatal. I must weep- 
                           But they are cruel fears. This sorrow's heavenly: 
                           It strikes where it doth love. She wakes! 
                        
                     
                   
                  A writer less acquainted with human nature, might probably have never put such words of tenderness into the mouth of one about to do so evil a deed; but they are perfectly consistent with the former depth and power of the Moor's affection, which came back in all its freshness and intensity, when he had resolved to sever himself at once and for ever from the being who had been dearer to him than life. 
                  Original conformation of mind, and particular circumstances, may greatly conduce to the birth and development of jealousy. Some minds are particularly phone to this passion-a bitter ingredient in the cup of life, and fatal to the spirit's peace. Not only is it an ever-cankering thorn in the breast of him who harbors it, which irritates and may destroy the sweet and delicate plant of love, but it often inflicts a wound on the heart of innocence that may be incurable. He who is constantly exposed to unjust suspicion, must at last be alienated from one who is the cause of so much annoyance. No love, however deep, can resist these incessant attacks-as perpetual dropping will come in time to wear the hardest stone. Nay, more: unjust suspicion may chance to lead to that which is well founded. When a man knows that whatever he may do, he cannot escape censure, unless his character be formed on the strong basis of Christian principle, he comes by and by, with a reckless hardihood, to think that he may as well give real cause. The frequent irritation caused by the jealous temper of his partner, her want of trust and confidence in him, create a malicious feeling toward her, which prompt him to wound her in the most tender part. Thus it is that unjust jealousy gives rise to real unfaithfulness. No argument against distrust and suspicion, can come home to the heart more powerfully than this. 
                  Besides original conformation of mind, peculiar circumstances may account for the entrance of "the green-eyed monster." Such are, a great disparity in age or appearance-the obviously prudential considerations from which one party may have married-or any known deficiency in truth and uprightness of character. The jealousy of Othello is particularly natural, on account of the striking disparity between the young and lovely Desdemona, whose skin was "pure as monumental alabaster," and the swarthy Moor, who was certainly very much her senior. 
                  
                      
                        BRABANTIS. 
                         
                           And she-in spite of nature, 
                           Of years, of country, credit, every thing, 
                           To fall in love with what she fear'd to look on? 
                         
                     
                   
                  And although Othello says: 
                         
                           Nor from mine own weak merits will I draw 
                           The smallest fear or doubt of her revolt; 
                           For she had eyes, and chose me; 
                        
                      there can be no question that these weak merits render his jealousy all the more probable. But the crowning argument with which lago contrives to instil his poison into the mind of the Moor, is this: 
                         
                            
                              She did deceive her father, marrying you; 
                              And when she seemed to shake, and fear your looks, 
                              She loved them most. 
                            
                        
                         
                           OTHELLO. 
                           And so she did. 
                        
                         
                           IAGO. 
                            
                              Why go to, then; 
                              She that so young could give out such a seeming 
                              To seal her father's eyes up close as oak; 
                              He thought, 'twas witchcraft. 
                            
                        
                     
                   
                   
                  These words convey so striking a moral, and so applicable to common life, that with them I shall leave the subject of jealousy, hoping that those persons in particular will ponder over them who venture to say that Shakspeare was not a moral writer. Full well he knew that the woman who is capable of one act of deception, lays herself open to suspicion in the future. And you, gentle readers, who desire peace and repose, tranquil and trusting happiness, in married life, beware of the first approach of concealment and deceit Be ye frank, confiding, truthful, open as the day, and your reward will be a harvest of quiet joy. But to this subject of preserving and cherishing love, we must devote another chapter. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER IV. 
                   
                     Love, how it may be preserved and how destroyed-How the feeling of security sometimes destroys Love-What influence carelessness has upon Love-The greatest danger to Love after marriage-Causes of the decline of Love-Mental qualities most enduring-How Love may be cherished-Love at first sight-How to cure Love. 
                   
                  SINCE love is so sweet and fair a flower, yet frail and delicate withal, liable to be nipped by outward cold, as well as to be consumed by its own inward and excessive heat, we must naturally wish to know how it may be kept alive, and nurtured into strength as well as beauty. The only love which deserves the name, is founded on a spiritual affinity, a oneness of heart and soul, a similarity of tastes, feelings and principles, which begets a sympathy that outward frosts can never chill, and which, in the very nature of things, grows and deepens by time. It looks not for perfection in its object, but remembers that mutual forbearance is the touchstone of domestic happiness. "It is inscribed on both wings of the Angel of the marriage covenant, which he folds in sorrow when the admonition is unheeded." There is a feeling of security which sometimes begets carelessness, and inattention to the various expedients, no less necessary in fostering and perpetuating affection, than in first winning the priceless treasure. 
                         
                           "It is better for love to be watchful, and weep, 
                           As he used in his prime, than go smiling to sleep, 
                           For coldness and death on his slumber steal fast 
                           But the love that is wakeful lives on to the last." 
                        
                     
                   
                   
                  That gentle assiduity and careful consideration of each other's wants and feelings, that characterise lovers before marriage, that anxiety to avoid giving pain, that unfailing politeness of manner-these, which were so easy and natural in the palmy days of courtship, should be scrupulously observed and continued, by those who would prolong the summer days of young love far into the autumn of life. 
                  "The love that is wakeful" keeps buoyant and warm, but carelessness affects not only one party, but engenders coldness and despondence in the other. The wife who finds her efforts to please, unappreciated, her endeavors to make home happy met with indifference, becomes at length estranged from her husband. 
                  It is evident from the foregoing, as well as known from general observation, that the dangers which love has to encounter are greatest after it reaches the port. The bark which bears it can withstand much better the storms of the open ocean, than the little worm that causes the dry rot; Since desire always looks to the future, it could not possiby exist along with the possession of its object, if this possession were supposed full and complete, for it would be quenched for want of aliment, like fire when there is nothing to burn. But the flame on the altar must be kept bright by gentle words, and kindly deeds, and mutual interchange of sentiment. 
                  The durability of the passion will depend, mainly, upon the nature on which it is engrafted, that is, upon the preparation of the different elements of which it is composed. When sense forms the chief part of the compound feeling, love will not long survive possession, because the object, once attained, seems attained completely and for ever. Here, there is no vague idea in prospect, which the imagination can picture as more brilliant than what is already known; what is "of the earth, earthy," cannot be of immortal duration. Only through the loveliness and excellence of the indwelling spirit, does its earthly tenement become sacred and dear. Lastly-beauty, which principally gives rise to sensual love, is not only fleeting, but by custom soon loses its magic. We are often astonished at the insensibility of husbands to the personal charms of their own wives. Beauty is much more for the world than for the fireside, and the pursuit of it has been well described as 
                         
                           "A chase of idle hopes and fears, 
                           Begun in folly, closed in tears. 
                            
                           The lovely toy, so fiercely sought, 
                           Hath lost its charm by being caught, 
                           For every touch that wooed its stay 
                           Has brushed its brightest hues away, 
                           Till charm and hue and beauty gone, 
                           Tis left to fly or fall alone." 
                        
                     
                   
                  But if love be of a different nature, consisting principally in a desire for the happiness of its object, and a desire for its affection, and if it be founded on mental qualities, more than on mere personal beauty, then it may be very lasting; for the soul once allied to its mate the affections once fixed where they are purely and perfectly reciprocated, can change no more for ever. 
                  But whether love be durable or not, it would be an essential error to suppose its influence on our happiness limited to the period of its continuance. That period remains for ever in the memory, as a past but blissful reality, to prove to us of what exalted felicity our nature is susceptible, and favor the belief that what we have enjoyed once, we may enjoy again, if not here, yet hereafter in the land of spiritual blessedness. Strong delights need the less to be repeated, because they live in our remembrance, even until our dying hour. No man who was once in love, can afterwards forget it, and therefore he has within him a fountain of thought and emotion which is never dry. He who has never known love, must have but an imperfect idea of human nature. The greatest of heathen philosophers, is said to have discoursed so eloquently on marriage, that the single all rushed into matrimony; and we may be certain that he did not separate marriage from loye. Those who rail at the emotion would do well to take a hint from Socrates. 
                  Love at first sight, though frequently ridiculed, is far from unnatural; nay, it would seem that in most cases, where the feeling is very strong, a decided impression has been produced at the first, which has afterwards been increased by time and intercourse. There appears to be an instinctive sympathy by which congenial minds are drawn together, they scarcely know how. Shakspeare, at all events, believed in love at first sight; Romeo becomes enamored of Juliet the moment he beholds her at a ball. 
                         
                           ROMEO. 
                            
                              What lady's that which doth enrich the hand 
                              Of yonder knights? 
                            
                        
                         
                           SERVANT. 
                           I know not, sir. 
                        
                         
                           ROMEO. 
                            
                              Oh, she doth teach the torches to burn bright; 
                              Her beauty hangs upon the cheek of night, 
                              Like a rich jewel in an Ethiop's ear: 
                              Beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear. 
                               
                              Did my heart love till now? forswear it, sight; 
                              For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night. 
                            
                        
                     
                   
                  Since love is born and fed by gazing on its object when present, and thinking on it when absent, the obvious cure is, not to gaze and not to think. The first of these is much easier accomplishment than the second; inasmuch as external and bodily actions are more readily controlled, than the workings of that subtler element of the soul. And yet, love must not be supposed to be wholly involuntary; the first emotion undoubtedly is so, but afterwards it may be encouraged or discouraged; guided and regulated, how difficult soever the task may be, by reason and enlightened conscience. We cannot, indeed, directly will away an idea that besets us; nay, the more we desire its absence, the more pertinaciously does it often cling to us; but we can turn our attention to other objects, We can seek amusement, business, travel, something requiring much bodily and mental energy, or, best of all, engage in some scheme of active benevolence, to divert the mind from a placed attachment. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER V. 
                   
                     Uncertainty, a promoter of Love-Difficulty, another promoter of Love-Effects of difficulty, two-fold-Absence strengthens Love-Effect of little caprices and quarrels. 
                   
                  OF the various promoters of love in its primary and incipient stage, may be mentioned uncertainty. This it is which keeps up hope as well as fear-which appear to be elements of love in its first dawning; though as it advances to its meridian, and the mists of morning are dissipated, it groweth brighter and brighter unto perfect love, which casteth out fear. There is a class of lovers with whom the certainty of obtaining the object of their desire quite diminishes its value. It is from a secret instinct of this that women are often led to keep their admirers in suspense for a long time, and are brought with difficulty to an explicit declaration. Poets, from force of imagination, and women, from delicacy of feeling, sometimes penetrate farther into human nature than philosophers. Though they may not be able to state their conclusions in set terms, and reason them out, they are still conscious of them; and they are certainly less liable to gross mistakes than mere mathematical thinkers, who suppose that the mind of man, like an algebraic equation, contains but one or two unknown quantities to be discovered by the intellect alone. Guided by delicacy of feeling, or sometimes by less worthy motives, women keep their lovers in doubt and uncertainty, as if apprehensive that their empire will cease when that thread is severed; comprehending that the time of trial comes when the chase of hopes and fears is at an end-for the little god who was kept awake by the storm, may fall asleep in the calm. 
                  Another great promoter of love, is difficulty, which indeed to many minds affords a powerful stimulus in the pursuit of any object, be it amusement, gain, study, ambition, or love. 
                         
                           Ah, me! for aught that ever I could read, 
                           Could ever hear, by tale or history, 
                           The course of true love never did run smooth. 
                        
                     
                   
                  Obstacles tend to increase any passion before as well as after the attainment of its object. In the first case, obstacles tend perpetually to keep that object in our mind; for where there is some impediment to be removed by our own operations, we will constantly be forming schemes or putting them in practice for that purpose. While the mind is forming designs and pursuing them, it must be constantly occupied about the object of these designs; and not only will the intellect be thus engaged, but the emotions will be kept in a constant agitation by a succession of secondary hopes and fears, according as our projects promise well or ill. Now all this activity, both of intellect and feeling, must tend to give permanence as well as strength to the primary passion. 
                  When difficulties are thrown in our way designedly by others, then some additional principles are called into action; for our pride receives a wound. Partly from a desire to get rid of this pain of humility, partly from revenge, or a desire of giving pain to those who both oppose our purpose and wound our pride, we pursue our original intent with increased energy. These principles are the source of the marriages from pique, or mariages de vengeance, which occur now and then in the world, as well as in the realms of fiction. Yet I know not if it be correct to say, that difficulty in these instances increases love. Self-will and determination of purpose are strengthened, certainly; but the sequel too often proves, that genuine affection has but little share in mariages de vengeance.
                   
                  But difficulties not only stimulate desires previous to the attainment of their object, but make it more loved and valued when attained. To this tend both reason and feeling, for we are apt to think what has cost us much pain and trouble, must be really precious, as the mother loves with peculiar tenderness the frail and delicate child whose rearing has cost the most of toil and anxiety. If it be true, as is sometimes said, that the happiest marriages are those which have been preceded by long courtships, this may be accounted for partly on the foregoing principle. The time and pains which it has cost us to possess the beleved object, enhance its value in our eyes, and make us cling to it with singular pertinacity. To throw away or neglect, now that we have secured it, is to render vain all our past sacrifices. Another, and doubtless more important cause, is the better acquaintance with each other's character which a long courtship may afford. If affection stand the test of this intimate acquaintance before marriage, it probably will after; and if not, the connection is discontinued, and matrimony relinquished. These causes furnish an argument against too precipitate marriages. 
                  The effects of difficulty, however, are two-fold. Until a certain point, it stimulates desire; but beyond that, blunts and destroys it. The particular point at which the reverse effect will begin, must depend on the original force of the desire, and the same obstacle which might deaden a weak impulse, would stimulate a strong one. When difficulty becomes impossibility, the firmest passion will die away; nor can love long exist unreciprocated. 
                  Having already alluded to absence as a promoter of love, and having accounted for its effects on the two principles of variety and privation, little remains to be said under that head. Rochefoucauld has said, that absence diminishes moderate and increases strong passions. There is truth in this, but not the exact truth. The fact seems to be, that absence, like difficulty, has a two-fold effect; it first first warms, and afterwards chills passion; but, the period which may elapse before the latter result takes place, will depend on the original intensity of the feeling. In the beginning, absence always acts in the former way, but when prolonged, in the latter. No passion is so weak as not to be enforced transitorily by absence; and none so strong as to resist it when long continued. A life of great variety of study or of engrossing occupation, will of course, sooner banish the absent object from the mind, than one of monotony, idleness, or contemplation; and a deep, retentive, meditative character, will not so soon forget, as the gay and frivolous. There is no more successful nurse of sentiment than meditation. Beneath her quiet watching, it grows ever more real and pervading, until it takes undisturbed possession of the soul. 
                  With regard to absence, I differ from many who believe it essential to prevent lovers becoming wearied with each other. It seems to me, that where individuals are spiritually united, they can no more become wearied with each other's society, than with themselves. Change of occupation, diversity of pursuits and subjects of reflection, are necessary and grateful to all; but he who is absolutely known to another, met with entire and unqualified sympathy, can no more wish to avoid the presence which soothes and fills his heart, than the sun can weary of his daily course, and sigh to escape the monotonous round. 
                  We come now to speak of the effect of little quarrels and caprices, on love. We speak not of minds of a high order. In strong, well-disciplined characters, grounded in Christian principles, we do not look for petty caprices and childish resentment; but, alas! those are not too common, and few pictures of married life present us with a scene unruffled by 
                         
                           "those cataracts and breaks, 
                           Which humor interposed, so often makes." 
                        
                     
                   
                  It has been said, that these little interruptions of married tranquillity, however unpleasant, give ultimately, additional force to the prevailing passion: that by giving variety and occupation, they break that uniform sweetness which is apt to cloy, and make us more alive to the joys of returning love; that at the same time they oblige us to think much upon the object of our affections, which, constantly suggesting the passion, fixes it more deeply in the soul. Such reasoning is erroneous, and could only proceed from one who knew of love through the intellect alone. When the lungs of man shall cloy with the free, pure air of heaven, which God in his unlimited bounty has poured out all round the world-when the fishes of the deep shall cloy with the cool, clear element in which they are enveloped-then shall hearts that love, cloy with goodness, patience, gentleness, and never-wearied sweetness of temper. Love cannot exist without esteem, and esteem could not long survive the friction of idle caprice and jarring discord. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER VI. 
                   
                     Books and music a food of love-Gifts-Vicious and imprudent conduct growing out of love-Wretchedness arising from injudicious marriages-Love sometimes changes to aversion-Danger of marrying without love. 
                   
                  BOOKS and music, which tend to soften and refine the hearty, feed and nourish love. Probably nothing promotes it more sweetly than reading together some tale in prose or verse, naturally written, and representing the passion in its most amiable and perfect light. Dante pictures Francesco di Kinnuni and her kinsman as thus engaged when the smouldering fire of love bursts at once into a blaze. In minds peculiarly susceptible to musical impressions, scarcely anything can have a more powerful effect in exciting tender emotions, than music. 
                         
                           If music be the food of love, play on, 
                           Give me excess of it. 
                           That strain again; it had a dying fall; 
                           O, it came o'er my ear like the sweet south 
                           That breathes upon a bank of violets, 
                           Stealing and giving odors. 
                        
                     
                   
                  The witchery of his gentle art, is a powerful ally to the music-master in winning the affection of his pupils. 
                  Since the imagination and the affections have a strong mutual influence, poetry and all works of fiction may have a decided effect in kindling the softer flame; for when the imagination is vividly excited, it colors whatever it pervades with its own rainbow radiance. 
                  Lastly, gifts may be mentioned as promoting love. In the first place, being associated with the giver, they serve perpetually ally to recall him; secondly, they recall him agreeably; thirdly, they are a proof to the receiver of being remembered, and lastly, of being remembered with fondness and partiality. Undoubtedly, the principal charm of gifts consists in their being regarded as love-tokens; so delightful is it to feel that we are indeed preferred by another. The heart of man yearns after affection as its natural aliment, and eagerly notes, and warmly cherishes, any indication of it, in look, gesture, word, or deed. Let us not, then, undervalue gifts, which in themselves seem but trifling, for nothing is really trifling that serves to conciliate love, or bring back again the past gladness of its early budding, in the days of young romance. Nay, small favors are decidedly to be preferred to great. In every species of affection, those acts please the most which prove that we are beloved-not their intrinsic worth, not their splendor or beauty, renders gifts dear, but the spirit which prompted their bestowal-a wild flower gathered with difficulty and danger from the brow of a precipice, would give more pleasure to the receiver than the most costly trinket. 
                  But love, beautiful and excellent as it should be, is the source of infinite misery to mankind, and in minds unbalanced by strong moral and intellectual developments, leads, albeit through a pathway strewn at first with flowers, adown the thorny vale of vice. Thus, is it in truth, with all our desires when left to wander blindfolded where they list. All only lead to harm, nay, even to our destruction; but since without them man would be an inert, a joyless, and a useless being, and since to destroy them is impossible, even were it desirable, it only remains to us to guide and regulate them by reason and conscience-those divine lights bestowed on man, beneath whose benignant rays his whole being should be brought into order of harmony and beauty. 
                  The more we refine love, and separate it from sense, the more do we lesson its evil effects, and secure the good. Most of the misery connected with love, whether to individuals or nations, arises from the predominance of sense; or this it is, which leads to vicious connections, to precipitate marriages, to the wo of families and the decline of States. It is lust, not love, which is the real source of evil; genuine love recognises no sensual pleasure in which the soul does not blend. The only efficient restraint to this unhappy tendency, must be supplied by reason and by education; intellectual and moral education, which refines the mind, gives a taste for more elevated enjoyments, and teaches calm, habitual, self-control. Thus, and thus only, shall we find the happiness, without the misery, of love. 
                  The sorrow arising from imprudent, ill-assorted marriages is so well known, so palpable, and has been so often dwelt on by different writers, that it needs no argument here to prove their folly. Marriages which are the result of a sudden impetuous passion, kindled by personal beauty alone, can scarcely fail of bringing unhappiness in their train; beauty is the frailest of all foundations for a lasting connection; unless, indeed, it be that beauty of expression, which may shed its sunshine over the plainest features, revealing the treasure of goodness, intelligence and love within. This is a beauty which is not frail-which does not pall, or fade when time has stolen the freshness of youth. 
                  But marriages sanctioned and hallowed even by the spirit of love, are not always accordant with prudence. They may be entered upon too early, before either mind or body are matured, or fitly prepared to meet the duties of that sacred relation. Nor, is it only unwise, but morally wrong, to assume the responsibility of supporting a dependant family before some provision of worldly substance is secured. 
                  We sometimes see persons who marry from a violent and thoughtless impulse, come in time to regard each other with indifference, or even aversion. They are indeed more prone to this sad extreme than others who came to the altar without one spark of affection to cement their union. On the one hand, love had prodigiously exaggerated the merits of the parties, and concealed, or diminished every fault and imperfection; while the passion being founded on mere personal attractions, unsupported by reason and sober sense must inevitably decline when the charm of novelty is gone. The eyes are opened as from a dream, the landscape which looked so beautiful in the distance, on a nearer approach becomes cold and barren-views of character never before suspected to exist are revealed, and the anguish of disappointment is succeeded by settled aversion. 
                  Those, on the other hand, who marry without loving, have woven no golden visions of a blissful future, and therefore cannot be disappointed, and in the course of time, particularly if the parties be not naturally unamiable, there sometimes grows up a certain want of each other, the necessitude of the Latins, a sort of mutual regard, the effect of the natural cleaving of the heart to something-far indeed from love, but yet the shadow of affection. 
                  That this kindly state of feeling should ever arise between those who began married life in transports, and continued it in hate, can scarcely be expected. The experience of riper years may, however, bring with it juster and more rational views; may teach the philosophy of a cheerful resignation to what cannot be averted; and out of long intercourse there may spring up a secondary affection, like the ghost of a friend departed. 
                  But to marry on the faint prospect that at some remote period affection may be called forth, is to incur a present and certain evil, (in comparison with which all other earthly evils are as nothing), for the sake of a distant and most uncertain good. If purely passionate marriages be reprehensible, what can be said of marriages of pure convenience? They may carry an air of wisdom about them; to the unsentimental and the worldling they may seem prudent, discreet, judicious; but alas, it is folly clothed in a borrowed garment. What were a life of toil, hardship, unremitted care, in comparison with being unequally yoked, for a life-long pilgrimage; but at home and in society, at table, by the fireside, morning and evening, an unalleviated and irremediable calamity? And yet, how does experience contradict reason, how do men and women go on submitting to be chained with golden fetters, sacrificing the holiest affections of the heart on the altar of ambition or fashion, or worldly gain. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER VII. 
                   
                     Marriage without affection the result of an unnatural heartless state of society-Courtship a delightful period of life-Immoral tendency of marriage without love 
                   
                  THERE are many countries, where, marriage being reduced to a mere bargain between parents, girls are kept in a sort of bondage, and marriage is hailed as the era of emancipation. The young are usually fond of change, and to superficial natures, who have no intense and deep sympathies which crave a response, conventional marriages may be no disadvantage. Time will bring with it duties, cares and responsibilities which give an interest in life, afford scope for mental and bodily activity, and thus supply a kind of happiness, the highest, perhaps, of which they are capable. 
                  But in unions of this character, that delightful and fairy period of life is lost. The romantic hopes, the novelty and poetry, of this bright scene of existence, is all a blank to the pair who make marriage a mere business arrangement. They are strangers to the inspirations which make beings, at other times dull and inanimate, seem to renew their existence and soar upon spirit-wings to the realms of ideal bliss; which give new brilliancy to the eye, a warmer eloquence to speech, a more, acute susceptibility to enjoyment, and a more enlivening, hopeful view of the world and of mankind. Assuredly, the most perfect idea of happy love, is that of a courtship varied by difficulty, yet animated by hope, prompting to exertion, yet always sweetening toil, pending on luxuries to come, but wisely forbearing to pluck the fruit before it be fully ripe; who would compare this with the mercenary bargain, where liberty is sold for pelf, or the appetite which destroys itself by a premature voracity. 
                  Among the Scottish peasantry are frequent instances of devoted attachment continued for years, till prudence allow a consummation of long cherished hopes; and certainly, no stronger evidence of the purity and virtue of that warm-hearted people could be adduced. 
                  But the last and most important objection to marriages without affection, remains to be mentioned. It is the broad and fearful pathway of immorality which they throw open. Since few persons pass through life without experiencing love, if the passion does not find repose and reciprocity within the pale of matrimony, there is a strong probability it will without. Marriage without affection cannot fill the heart, nor prevent it from going forth to meet elsewhere the sympathy it demands. Consequently, if the sense of duty and moral obligation be weak, there is no safeguard against infidelity, and at best nothing but a forced constancy to be expected. 
                  In a state of society where such marriages are common, a grievous laxity of morals must prevail, a laxity which is both a cause and effect of such connexions. 
                  Did not experience teach us to the contrary, reason would assure us that the number of wrecks which lie strewn along this fearful shore, would prove a sufficient warning to younger voyagers on the sea of life, to shun the breakers which so many have rashly dared before. But no; when the sails are filled with the breeze of love, if conscience, serene and true, sit not at the helm, and if reason, strong and clear, supply not the barque with ballast, it is no wonder she is dashed upon the rocks. It is not that there is any want of love in the world, every day shows that of all passions it is the most active, the most wakeful, and the most tenacious. 
                
             
         
       
   
