
    ----CITATION----
        Maxwell, Maria.. Ernest Grey, or, The Sins of Society .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7221
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Ernest Grey, or, The sins of society 
            
                 
                 ERNEST GREY; OR, THE SINS OF SOCIETY.  BY MARIA MAXWELL.  WITH SIX FINE ILUSTRATIONS BY M'LENAN. NEW YORK : PUBLISHED BY T. W.- STRONG, 98 NASSAU- STREETS 1855.   ENTERED according to Act of Congress in the year 1858,  BY THOMAS W. STRONG,  in the Clerk's Office of the District of the United States, for the  Southern District of New York.  VINOCNT L. DILL, Stereotyper,.       AlDEE, Printer, 128 Fulton Street. New York.   213 & 215 Centre Street.   ,CONTENTS CHAPTER.                        PAGE. JINTRODUCTION,  .-   *   -          7 L-Home'of Ernest Grey-Trials and'Sufferiigs,     ,9 IL-Lizzy Roberts, the shirt sewer, -   .   -  16 "I.-An adventure in Broadway--Richard Kane, the mechanic-The shirt Store,     -   -  23 IV.-The merchant's family-Father and son,   -   31 V.--Robert Clements financial scheme-The fifty dollar bill,   -   -   -   ,   -    40 VI.-Ernest Grey at home-Kane's umbrella, -    -  -44 VII.-Pay-day in the shirt stoe--How they do business in Mr. Sharpe's-Lizzy Roberts' boarder,   , 61 VIII.--The stolen bill--Physic and Literature-Prison discipline,  -   -   -   .   -  60 IX--Arrest of Ernest Grey-The mother and child,    78- X.-Ernest Groy in prison-A world within the world --An execution,               86 XI.-Disappointments-- Ought to be content, -   -  97 XII.--Acquittal of Ernest Grey-Interview with Lizzy Roberts-Search for his wife and child,  - 108 XII.-The wash'erwoman-Friend in need-Hopes and fears, -                   116 XIV.--More trials and troubles-The separation, -   120 XV.-The frozen steps-An accident-The child's resolve, 125 XVI.-Grey's return to his home-Meeting of husband and wife--The mendicant,          131 XV-L.--The Judge and the accused--Ernest Grey in the Fifth Avenue-Stop thief!--The tombs,   - 140 XVlll.--Exciting news in Short's alley--Death of Mrs. Grey, la1   iv            CONTENTS. CHAPTER,                       PAGE. XIX.-The sewing girls m Mr. Clements-Mr. Hamilton and the apple-The cousins--Which is it?  159 XX.-Mrs. Clements' ball-The proposal-Malice of friends, 169 XXL.-An unexpected meeting-The Knight of the Um- brella-Sorrow and exposure,   -   - 181 XXIL.-Another new medicine-Chit chat-Re-appear- ance of the, apple-A declaration, -  -  190 XXIII.-The confession-Vindication of Ernest Grey, - 206 XXIV.-Ernest Grey in the dock-What he says for him self--The Judge and Mr. Clements-The repa- ration, -    .   ..         214 XXV.--Steve's visit to the prison-The father's grief, 223 XXVI.-Ernest. Grey in Sing Sing-The brutal keeper- Cruel treatment of Frank Hill-The Shower bath,         2- -30 XXVIL--The drunken official- The eat o'nine tails-No. 475--Shooting a prisoner-lThe yoke. -   237 XXVIIL--The cousin's stratagem-The adopted child--The secret,  -   -   -   -   -   245 XXIX.-An evening at Lizzy Roberts-The bright fire and its reward-Poverty as a moral agent- Going to be married,    -      - 258 XXX.--News from the outside world-A suicide in Sing Sing--Prison poetry--Who wrote it?-Murder of Frank Hill,  -   -   -   -   276 XXXI.--The release from Sing Sing-Dick the burglar- The dream--Detection of, the bturglars--Grey is fatally wounded, -   -   -   - 284 - XXXIL-The burning building-Rescue of Agatha and Lizzy Roberts--Richard Kane, the fireman, 292 SXXXIII.-Richard Kane's love-The will and .the way-The unset tea-table-The discovery,       3 - 00 XXXIV.-Death of Ernest Grey-The sea-Side walk-The visit to Europe-Scene in the summer house-- Mrs. Hamilton,   -   -   -   - 314 dXXXV.--Conclusion.  -      -   -   -   329   -I NT ROD U C T I O N. THE objects which the authoress of -the following story had in view, will become so apparent on the most cursory perusal of it, that it would-seem entirely unnecessary to preface it by a word of explanation; but, as there are'- many incidents related in it connected with prison disci- pline, which mar seem to the uninitiated too highly colored, she takes the present opportunity of removing any false impressions they may have formed with regard to the system. The consideration which is given to this subject by the public is very slight, and yet it is one of the most im- portant that could engage their attention. The man who has once been incarcerated 'in a prison is regarded as- an outcast, and is shunned by all classes as a moral leper, whose touch is infectious; while those who are successful   INTRODUCTION. pll cne, are regarded merely as "smart men," anidare iot unf    praised for their shrewdness. -hf s is the tate  pblic feeling towards the crimina while she fink society 4ayed'       'abihiieea p haunts ihim iniall his moeemei it.4-i4i. to exp re orm. He I regard society hi im     ff   d hl is forced in selfdefense a$ wellbas b ti nt   if-ieservation, to mike war against t.       i but          t whisch fhas 'to contend/ : The qystem oJ dafcipune pursued in ajir', if not i all te lisons of the State, is phi     rs t t ist cou  e evisedorHl, 'formation-!-n fct, the id  of / anstion -dever eT#lo .-1tiTagrat     6sei who are entrusted with their management, as the history of the Auburn, Sing-Sing, and other prisons abundantly testify. The keepers do not appear to be chosen with any reference to their capability for the performance of their duties, and are sometimes not only brutal but fiendish in the treatment of the unfortunate crimiinas committed to their care. In the illustration of this particular feature -of   INTRODUCTION.         Vii prison life, the authoress assures her readers, that she has scrupulously kept within the boundaries of fact. It is suffi- cient to know, that prisoners have been subjected to the most cruel tortures at the caprice of keepers, that they have died from their effects. Frank Hill is but one instance out of many, which might be adduced in proof of this. Some beneficial changes have been made it is true in the system within the last few years, but much has yet to be done, before our prisons will become what they should be-institutions for the reform, as well as for the punishment of the criminal. For these reforms, the public are mainly indebted to the philanthropic exertions of the late Isaac Hopper, the Howard of America, whose long life was devoted unceasingly to the service of the fallen and the outcast. The critical reader may detect in the progress of  the story a few anachronisms, but as they do not inter- fere with its aims and purpose, and are necessary to give completeness to the whole, the authoress hopes she will be pardoned therefor.   * ',   ERNE-ST GREY. CHAPTER I. HOMEOF ERNEST GREY-TRIALS AND SUFFERINGS. "TwAS a cold drizzly morning in December; the wind wass sighing mournfully in the confined alley ways that lead to those utter abominations--rear houses; lights were twink- ling in the grocery stores; carts were lumbering on, and men were hastening to their daily toil, some smoking segars and others whistling favorite airs. The morning was worse than cold, or wet-it was bleak and dreary, and the fitful wailing gusts were so depressing that a thorough- going hurricane would have been more welcome. Up an alley-way that led to one of the most dilapidated, tumble-down rear houses in New York, on such a morning a man was passing, carrying in one hand a pitcher of milk, and in the other a basket containing a scanty supply of bread. He was neither smoking nor whistling, but from   10      HOME OF ERNEST GREY. time to time, a sound issued from his broad chest, strangely in unison with the wind-it might have been a sigh, or it might have been a suppressed groan. He entered the ever open door of the building, groped his way up the moulder- ing stairs and passed into one of the back rooms. It was almost empty ; a miserable looking bed occupied one cor- ner; and a table and a couple of broken chairs were placed near a few dying embers in the open fire-place, which a sickly looking woman hastily replenished, as she heard the ascending footstep. "You got it, Ernest," she said, taking from him the bread and milk. '           . "Yes, Jane ; but he cursed and swore that he wouldn't give me another cents' worth till I paid him all. I can hardly blame him, for we owe him a good many dollars." We never, owed him sixpence until you took sick, but paid him regularly every Saturday,--and didn't I sell our little stock of furniture and pay while it lasted ; and didn't we as soon as you could walk, move to this .wretched hole that we might be sooner enabled to meet his demands." "He says if we had principle we would manage to pay him some way or other, and not be making excuses all the time." "Oh dear! oh dear!" she said piteously, ' and what did you say." "I don't know what I said Jane, but I felt so mean tak- ,   ERNEST GREY.          1  ing these things from him, that if it hadn't been for you and the boy-but no matter. Get breakfast I must hurry to my work." The lamp which had been extinguishe& through a feeling of rigid economy was now relighted and they sat down to breakfast. "I promised him four dollars to-night," said the man gloomily, " and when another dollar goes for rent, it won't leave much out of six. And what will Steve do in the meantime for clothes-the child was shivering with cold yesterday, and to-day will be worse." "I have an old cloak left, Ernest, that will make him a warm dress, and I was thinking of breaking it up this good:while. I'll set about it to-day." "You'll do no such thing," he replied quickly; "Steve can be kept in the house and if it is extra cold keep him in bed; but you must be out sometimes. It. must not be done.  You promise me Jane?" "I can't, Ernest ;-it is done already.'i You needn't say a word," she added, hastily, as he was about to speak. "Do you think I'd wear it and the poor child crying with cold; and if I did, it would'nt do me any good.  No indeed!" "What are you to do?" "Do?" she repeated with assumed cheerfulness; " what every body else does-do as well as I can."   12   .  TRIALS AND SUFFERINGS. "I tell you what, Jane, the world is not all right; there's a screw loose somewhere," said the man after a long pause.  "Maybe so, but we haven't got to fix it." "That's it Jane-just what everybody says. 'There's something wrong,' says one, and 'there's something wrong' says another, 'but it's nothing to me.' What's every- body's business is nobody's business; what everybody ought to do, nobody is willing to do, and so the world is let to run to the devil. Every man has a world of his own to work in, and if every man did what he could there, there'd be nothing left undone. Isn't it enough to drive one distracted to see in what luxury some people live with- out doing anything for it; and if I was to work the flesh off my bones I couldn't more than keep body and soul together." "Dear Ernest I what put such thoughts into ypur head? It frightens me to hear you talking in that way." "Then I had better go at once, or I'll frighten you out of your senses, for I feel bad to day,-that's a fact. To be told that I had no principle when I would almost sell myself to pay him I I have more principle than him, or twenty like him, but who'd believe it? for he can pay what he owes, and I can not: So of course he's more honest." "But money is not virtue." p   ERNEST GREY.          13 "Isn't it? indeed! Oh! Jane, Jane,-what a fool you are. Doesn't money stand for charity, liberality, gener- osity, honesty? and doesn't poverty stand for-every crime under heaven. Yesterday," he added if a louder voice and more excited manner, "I placed a bale of broad cloth where one of the clerks told me it was to go. Sometime after he passed and ordered it to be removed, cursing my stupidity for leaving it there. I told him it was left there by his own orders. But what's the use of worrying you." "Oh, g on." "He denied it insultingly. Every drop of blood in my body flew to my face; but what could I do? I thought of you and Steve-I thought of this miserable room made still more miserable-I thought of the difficulty of getting work at this season, and I was silent. Well-guess how it ended, Jane. Through the day I overheard him say to Mr. Jones the principal business man, directing his atten- tion to me and laughing heartily ;-' Oh he's a poor, mean- spirited creature.' 'Mean-spirited and unprincipled' both stand for poor, you see." "Say, father 1" said a childish voice from the bed," "wasn't it cold last night.?" "Psha I Steve. You must be more of a man, and not be complaining of the cold." "But that won't make it warm, father, will it?   "     TRIALS :AND SUFFERINGS. "-Stay in bed, and you'll' warm," said the mother. "Stay until I finish your new dress." "'Oh mother-;" said the boy, "I'd rather have a new ball. Willy Slort's got a beautiful ball. Why wouldn't you buy one for me father? Aint you, able to buy it? Willy Short says you have'nt money enough ; but I told him you had as much money as his father. Haven't- you, father-eh? Don't forget the ball, father; I'd rather have the ball," shouted Steve, rising: and running to. the entry undressed as he was, quite indifferent to the cold, and continuing the same cuckoo song long afteM his father was out of hearing.  "Steve," said his mother, gently," you mustn't ask your father to buy you things, nor tell him what Willy Short says." "Why, mother,-wouldn't he buy me anything?" "Yes, darling,. he would ; but you know your father hasn't money." "He has as much money as Willy Short's father," said the child, positively., You must never say that Steve." "And I told Willy that father bought me a new dress, -so I did-as good as his," said Steve, triumphantly ;-- "and you know he did, mother, I see'd it yesterday." "Oh-dear!" said the poor woman. in great perplexity;   ERNEST GREY.         15 "and we in arrears for rent-what will they think 7 Why, child, that aint a new dress." "Ain't it," said Steve, "considerably crestfallen;- "What is it then?  Oh here's Lizzy." And with one spring, Steve was in the arms of the new comer, all his troubles forgotten.    . l .   .          *   -CHAPTER    II. "ZZY ROBERTS, THE SHRT SEWER. SHE was a pale, delicate looking girl about nineteen or twenty. Her features were rather prepossessing than beautiful, but they had a haggard, worn expression which told too plainly of sleepless nights and unremitting toil. Lizzy Roberts was a shirt maker; she worked for a fashionable establishment that couldn't- brook disappoint- ment, and therefore was she obliged to set up night after night at her cheerless, monotonous employment. Long after the last sounds of busy life had died away, while thousands of the gay, the fashionable and the dissipated squandered their time and their money in the pursuit of foolish or criminal enjoyments, she sat and sewed, in the dreary miserable room which she called her home, the stillness only broken by the heavy breathing of an invalid mother in the uneasy sleep of pain. Her employer was inexorable in having the work turned in at the stated time, aid a failure in punctuality Was a prelude to dis- missal. So excuse was listened to-grief or sickness-   ERNEST GREY.          17 no matter--"business must be attended to--if you can't do it another can." Better that a hundred girls should lose health, and strength and beauty, than disappoint one valuable customer. Lizzy Roberts had known, better days. She was the only child of a fond, indulgent father, who had done his utmost to spoil her; but Lizzy was one of those natures which it was impossible -to spoil. She had known grief and happiness, but-her heart was-still the same ;--like a flower she flourished in rain and sunshine, for while one expanded the- blossom, the other strengthened the root. Feelings and principles developed and cultivated, no matter how carefully, will not earn a livelihood, though talents may, and poor Lizzy was sadly deficient -in talent: therefore, when- her father died, she did the only thing she could, made her needle provide for her mother and herself. That it was a -poor provider, who needs to be told,? Still her loving, contented nature made everything lighter and easier to bear, and when her grief for her father's death subsided into a gentle sorrow, Lizzy felt absolutely happy in working for her remaining parent. Hour after hour she workld,- stitch followed stitch,--seam succeeded seam,-neither eye nor thought wandering from the business on hand ; and as the pile of linen ascended, layer upon layer, her spirits rose, and the completion of her task was the signal fortn out- burst of gladness. This was at her first setting-out, but   18        THE SHRT SEWER. the truth of that old axiom, "the longer the way, the wearier," was never more forcibly realized than in her case. Month after month Lizzy hemmed and stitched with undi-- minished industry, but her color gradually faded, her eyes lost their brightness, and her laugh grew less spontaneous. What a brave loving heart a woman must have to work on and on at the ceaseless, sedentary, ill-paid toil society allots her, and not become listless and depressed,-indifferent to the past, heedless to the future, and laboring only for the all-absorbing present. Let those who think otherwise, try it. True, labor is excellent, is honorable, is necessary, but it must have limits-,human beings have other and higher faculties to cultivate, and there mut be something astray when woman, socially restricted and naturally unfitted: for some pursuits, is forced to labor sixteen or eighteen hours out of the twenty-four to obtain a mere- subsistence, soul and mind stinted in their growth, while man, by a few hours' labor, can support in comfort not only himself, but his family; and this because woman is weak on all points save one,-unhappily for herself-she is strong in endurance. Had it not been for her mother, Lizzy would -have pre- ferred taking charge of children, for which her gentleness of disposition eminently fitted her; but she could not be left alone, so she continued sewing, and gradually the slow poison took effect. The glaring white -of the linen affected   ERNEST GREY.        -  19 Ither eyes, and in order to accomplish her task, which every day became more difficult, she was obliged to sit up later. But the'spirit was willing, though the flesh was weak, and Lizzy Roberts was as assiduous, if not as successful, as before. Two years had elapsed since her father's death, and -during that time the most she had earned was three dollars a week, and that only when the work was good. She struggled long to keep up a decent appearance, but Poverty is an experienced wrestler, and what could two friendless women do but succumb. At the time our story commences, two years after the father's death, the mother and daughter were located in the back attic-room of the rear house we have described in the preceding chapter. "Well, Lizzy, how is your mother this morning?" said Mrs. Grey. "No better.   She got no rest last night, the cold was so great." "Nor you either, my   poor girl, I'm afraid," said her compassionate listener. "Oh, that's nothing; I  had got to stay up  to- finish some  shirt collars, and could not have gone to sleep if I had wished it ever so, for Mr. Sharpe wants them this morning, early.  I must be down before eight o'clock." "Before eightl    Why, Ellen Williams don't go so early. '- I went to Mrs. Short's yesterday after'my Steve,   20       THE SHRT SEWER. and she was going home with work then, and that was about twelve." "Yes, I know," said Lizzy, quietly; "but Ellen is dif- ferent from me. The shop girls have a kind of a liking for her, she's so smart and lively, and dresses so nice. But Mr. Sharpe, himself, told me that it didn't look respectable to see me coming in when the shop was crowded with cus- tomers, and that he couldn't give me work if I didn't turn it in early in the morning." "Well!" said Mrs. Grey, indignantly. "Well, what could I do?" and Lizzy smiled sadly ; "of course I did as I was bid; and I told mother that I'd go in the morning always in future-that it was better, as I wouldn't be meeting so many. Now it's time to start." "t's an unfeeling thing to ask you to go so early in the morning,-it's always colder then." "Well, but I like it better. I want to :be there and home again before the other giris give in their work. They don't like to come out of the store with me--no wonder, I'm so shabby."7 "Pshaw I Lizzy. Why do you say no wonder?" "Because, it is no wonder, dear Mrs. Grey; Im so different, you know." "So you are-that's a fact," said Mrs.. Grey, decidedly, "and you don't mind them, Lizzy--eh? not much." "I feel bad this morning about going, because the young ? .    ERNEST OREY.         21 girls in the store were so-but I can't afford to take offence, and I pretended not to hear them." "What did they say to you?"  "Oh, they didn't say anything to me, but they spoke loud enough for me to hear them. Just as I was passing out, they began to giggle and whisper. 'What a figure for Broadway,' -says one. 'Quite a credit to the store' says another; and they laughed aloud. Then they got too angry to laugh, and said it was a shame. They looked so young and so pretty, that I felt quite sorry to hear them talk so. But now that I've told you, I don't feel so bad." Steve had listened intently to the whole conversation, evidently trg his best to comprehend it, and now broke in, his chil  e red and angry. "I'd li  :-for laughing. I'd lick anybody that'd laugh at Liz "Oh, Steve!" s  izzy, reproachfully. "Steve's a bold boy," said his mother, in a tone that re-assured the child at once, and he muttered doggedly. "I would-yes, I would so," and turned his back upon his protege. "Steve wont speak to you any more, Liz," said the mother. Steve didn't seem to relish this observation, but he was too sulky to contradict it.   -22 -      THE SHRT SEWER. "Wont you give me a kiss before I go, Steve?" said Lizzy, coaxingly; "come, that's a good boy-make up and be friends," Steve still silent and sulky. "Never mind, Liz-do you go, and you needn't call here any more, for Steve don't like you,"- said his mother. "Yes I do ;" he exclaimed, fairly conquered, and blub- bering outright; " and I'll kiss her too." And Steve was as good as his word, evidently thinking that he had estab- lished an everlasting claim on her gratitude. "Now wont you come back? Whisper, Liz!" She stooped, and putting his mouth to her ear, he-said in a tone of determined willfulness--"I would lick 'em." Lizzy hurried off, trying to hide a smile ; and Mis.: Grey began to busy herself about the room. It did not take much time to arrange; and then the little dress was cut out and basted, and tried on, the poor mother happy in the thotught that her boy would be warm and comfortable, and Steve exulting in his own little heart that he could now take down Willy Short.          -  V " .   CHAPTER      III. AN ADVENTURE IN BROADWAY--RICHARD KANE, THE MB- CHAIC--THE SHRT STORE, IT was half-past seven when Lizzy Roberts turned into Broadway, and fearful of being late, she pressed forward- rapidly. The shops were not all open, and the street had a deserted look, for it was that kind of amorning when few walk from choice. The stages were crowded, drivers were encased in water-proof somethings-only the initiated can tell what. The red-tipped segars looked less disagree- able than usual, awnings were in demand, and umbrellas at. a premium. The drizzling mist of the early morning chuanged to heavy rain, and Lizzy's apology for an umbrella-and a poor apology it certainly was-didn't prevent her from being thoroughly drenched. Enough. rain had fallen to make the superabundant dust on the crossings glutinous as bird-lime, and as Lizzy, her timid prudence giving way before her anxiety to be in time, ventured to cross in the face of an up-coming stage, she was caught as in a trap,   24     ADVENTURE IN BROADWAY. and but for a hearty backward pull, must have been run over. "More frightened than hurt, I guess." The voice was pleasant to hear, and the smiling, intelligent face pleasant to look upon. Lizzy murmured isome unintelligible words of thanks, and hurried on, her dread of being late again in the ascendant. "You are walking too quick," said the young man, who had followed and kept pace with her. "You are not all right yet." "Oh, yes, indeed." "You shake as if you had the ague. Take my umbrella and walk slower." "I can't," said Lizzy, anxiously; "I'll be late-I ought to be there now." Her companion was desirous of knowing where " there" meant, but his natural courtesy would not allow him to ask. "Well," said he, after a short silence, "at all events you must take my umbrella, for your's is scarcely--" he paused for fear of giving pain--"large enough to shelter you." "Oh, yes," she replied, "it is quite large enough, but it's old and worn-it lets in the wet." "Exactly so-that's what I mean. Well, you take my umbrella, and give me yours. That's it."   ERNEST-- GREY. -       :25 And before Lizzy had time to refuse; the umbrellas: were exchanged.  "Don't be frightened-it's all right," was his only reply to her remonstrances. "Good norning--keep a sharp look out for the crossings.' And in a twinkling he was down a side street, chuckling at hig own success. "Capitally managed. Poor thing--such a morning, too, and such an umbrella,"--glancing at the broken ribs and torn cover--"I'm right glad she's got a good one. Here goes," and the worn-out parapluie was tossed into the middle of the street. In the meantime, Lizzy arrived at the store, and-handed her work to the young lady in attendance. "What's the reason it aint clean?" was her first obser- vation. "And this stitching-do you call it neat? My I how uneven it is."  "I could'nt draw a thread," said Lizzy.- "How smart we are," said the young lady aside to one of her companions, in a contemptuous tone. "Who ever heard of drawing threads in a bias-? But I suppose you could keep it-even if you tried. I declare, if the threads ain't split I Well!" This crowning piece of depravity was too much, and in silence she handed the collars round to be examined. "Nothing could be neater, Leonore," said a fair- haired young girl who was arranging goods at the   26        THE SHRT STORE. other counter. "If I could stitch as neatly I would be contented." "Look at the split threads and the button holes." Pshaw!" was the only reply vouchsafed. "I don't think there's any work cut out," said Leonore, talking rather to herself than to Lizzy, "and I haven't got time to cut any now. The store must be tidied up first of all. Couldn't you come back again-in the afternoon?" The thought of her mother being so long alone, and the fatiguing walk, roused Lizzy, and she answered in a tone unusual to her- "No, indeed, I cannot; for I live too far away." "It rains, Leonore," said the young girl who had already praised the stitching. "Well-can't she take the stage?" was the careless reply. Lizzy's pale cheek flushed, but she was silent. "Or if you can't return, I suppose you must play lady to-day, and come back in the morning." Poor Lizzy I This was: worse than all; and with diffi- culty she repressed her tears. A whole day lost I How many nights would it take to make up for that? No work for a whole day I What a world of meaning was in that one sent ence. "I can cut out the work myself," she ventured to sug- gest; "or I can wait till it's cut out for me."   }ERNEST GBBY. I27 "I'm sure a day can't make much difference." Leonore spoke as if the patience of an angel couldn't be proof against the annoyances to which she was subject. "It makes a great difference to me," was the touching rejoinder.  "Leonore," said the young girl at the opposite counter, "if you haven't time, I have got everything in order here -shall I?" "If you have a mind to;" said Leonore, with a toss of her head. "Oh tell us all about the ball last night," exclaimed  three or four of the shop girls in chorus, gathering round He Leonore with eager interest. "What did you wear? Who was there? Did you waltz? Did you have supper?" The noisy gaiety ill-accorded with Lizzy's state of mind, and she turned to the other counter to ask about the breadth of the stitching, the size of the button holes, and other important items; but ever and anon a sentence in a louder key reached her, and what an odd jumble it was-- "White tarletane?-no indeed-yes, I saw him-so pretty -pale blue silk, looped up with roses--what a fright that woman is--paid 'every attention to me--flatters so-crum- pled. white muslin, nothing else-her homely beau-pretty I not she, indeed-pearls in my hair," &c. &c. "I want to give you work enough to last for two days, for I think it will storm to-morrow."    28:       . THE SHRT. STOE. "If I have it finished before that?" said Lizzy, inquir- ingly.  "No matter-there's no hurry; but if, you think you could do more, I'll get it ready. There,-I think that'll be enough." "I think so, but Mrs. Grey sews very neatly," she said, hesitatingly.       . "Who is Mrs. Grey?" "She lives in the same house with me, and I know she will be glad to get some work--her husband has been ill quite a long time. If I could -get it for her, and spare her the walk." "But Mr. Sharpe, I think,wouldn't like to give work to a stranger without a deposit.'    .       - Lizzy knew well that Mrs. Grey couldn't give a deposit if all ,the work in New York depended upon it, and she hesitated to reply. "Couldn't you take out a double quantity in your own name," said the young girl, lowering her voice-" and give it to your friend? Many of the girls have friends to help' them, and if Mr. Sharpe .noticed you turning in' more work than usual, he'll conclude that you've got some rela- tion at home. If it's well done, and ready when he wants it. he don't care much about anything else." And doubling -the linen, she re-commenced "cutting vigo- roasly.    EREEST GREY.          29 "There--I've given you two dozen collars for Mrs. Grey. Your own is in this parcel. You are sure she will do them good." "Yes,"--Lizzy was very sure. "I'm sorry I've had to detain you so long sitting in your wet clothes." "Walking will soon warm me"--she replied cheerfully, though her teeth chattered with the cold; and thanking her new friend with an eloquent look, for her tongue did no justice to her feelings, Lizzy turned homewards con- gratulating herself on, having received kindness from two strangers in the course of one morning. "Dear Liz I it was so kind of you,", said Mrs. Grey, when Lizzy explained to her about the collars." I've often tried to get work, but couldn't."  "I thought of it before, but was only waiting for a chance, for if Mr. Sharpe was in a bad. temper he'd re- fuse without knowing what you asked. But look at this!" she added holding up the umbrella. "Oh, ain't it nice I," exclaimed Steve in an ecstacy of admiration, pulling with a will at the brass tipped point to subject it to a nearer inspection. "You couldn't guess how I got it 1" "You didn't buy it-did you?"  "Guess again "--said Lizzy, laughing. "Oh of course you got it from that young girl in the   30        THE UMBRELLA. store," and Mrs. Grey's tone said as plain as tone could say, "How stupid not to think of that before." "No, indeed I Steve give it to your mother." Steve had succeeded in bringing the handle which was a special object of interest to him eon a level with his eyes, and after delighting his sense of touch by its smoothness was wholly absorbed in examining a small oval brass plate set in the side. With great reluctance he gave it up in obedience to a more peremptory demand. "It's a real good one"--said Mrs. Grey ; "the ribs are whalebone. Let me see I Why, who is Richard Kane?" "Richard Kane!" repeated Lizzy; " why, is there a name on it?" "Yes ; there it is, and I think I heard Ernest mention that name more than once.  Richard Kane H'm sure I did. But, say-I don't understand, Liz-how did you come by it?" Lizzy told her all the details, and Mrs. Grey was de- lighted with Kane's promptitude and subsequent brusque kindness. Both agreed that it would be better not to tell Mrs. Robert's anything about the matter, lest any future unavoidable delay might alarm her.   CHAPTER IV. THE MERCHANT'S FAMLY--FATHER AND SON. A sHORT time after the events related in our last chapter, Mr. and Mrs. Clements and their daughter Agatha, were seated round the breakfast table in their luxurious parlor. Mr. Clements whose name has been already mentioned was engaged in an extensive mercantile business. He was a man universally respected for many sterling qualities, but, from a certain sternness of manner, rather unpopular among his employees and acquaintances. He was a good man--some even said he was a kind one, but he was never known to pardon, or pass over the slightest deviation from the strict line of duty let the cause be what it might. In fact he was a harsh, just man, who resolutely repelled every suggestion alike of feeling or of pity-who measured every man by his own standard of right or wrong and judged him accordingly. Principle was his idol--feel- ing with him was synonymous with weakness- -"Those who sin should suffer" was his creed; and he was a bigot to it.   32      THE MERCHANTS FAMTTLY. His life had been uniformly happy and prosperous; his wealth increased slowly and steadily; but the influ- ences that soften one man's heart petrify another's, as the same sun that melts an icicle hardens the plastic clay. Mrs. Clements character may be summed up in one sentence--she was a hypochondriac--"a steady, sturdy, staunch believer" in the healing virtues of all quack nos- trums; those she had not tried she felt convinced would cure her, and those she had tried she felt equally convinced would cure any one but her. One son, a wild, thoughtless, good-hearted youth of seventeen, and one daughter, a few years older, constituted Mr. Clements' family. He was tenderly attached to both, but his affection for Robert was kept alive by a constant fear that somehow or other he would get into difficulties if not well watched. To this task Mr. Clements dedicated himself so zealously that his object soon became apparent, and Robert having no appre- ciation or relish for affection- so displayed, withdrew him- self more and more from his father. This increased Mr. Clements watchfulness and it in turn increased Robert's wilfulness. This alienation did not escape his daughter Agatha-to her it was a cause of unaffected sorrow. To Mrs. Clements it- seemed all very natural that Robert, released from the counting-house, should seek relaxation among companions of his own age. "Robert," she would say, " is becoming a   ERNEST GREY.          t8 young man, and young men will- be young men," was her invariable reply to Mr. Clements remarks on his frequent absence from home. "Father--more tea?" said Agatha, interrogatively, holding the tea-pot inclined over his cup, while waiting for an answer. Mr. Clements did not hear the question-he was, or seemed to be, deep in a newspaper. "Father I' she repeated in a louder voice. Mr. Clements looked up-Agatha went through the pantomime of pouring out tea. An impatient "No " was his answer. Then turning to Mrs. Clements, who was reclining in an easy chair, gazing vacantly at the -fire, he said abruptly- "Where's Robert? Maria." 4"I'm sure I do not know," said Mrs, Clements languidly, "perhaps in his' own room, or-somewhere-he must be somewhere." "Did you see him yesterday?" "Did I, Agatha?" "Yes, mother, certainly; don't you recollect he read some ludicrous poetry to you?" "Don't mention it," said Mrs. Clements, imploringly; "my head' aches yet when I think of it. It was so incon- siderate-I had almost said, cruel of Robert, to make me laugh. His constitution mav defy such convulsive efforts;   34      THE MERCHANT'S FAMLY. but mine--a pause of most significant meaning followed this reference to herself. "A medical author says," suggested Mr. Clements, "that 'a laugh is the best medicine'" "Pshaw! Mr. Clements--medical authority, indeed  What do I care for medical authority." "Well, mother, a poetical one says--' so much laughter, so much life enjoyed.'" "I'm glad to hear," said Mr. Clements, "that Robert, by any means, direct or indirect, contributes to the enjoy- ment of one parent. I did not give him credit for so much." "But it is very good policy, dear father, to give people credit for goodness. Men and women are frequently good or bad, as we give them credit for being so." "Ha l" said Mr. Clements, relapsing into silence, and diving once more into the newspaper. Mrs. Clements sat like one who had no interest in the conversation; the fingers of one hand rested on the wrist of the other, and she was endeavoring to count its pulsa- tions. That she succeeded to her own satisfaction in find- ing it quicker or slower than it ought to have been, was evident from the strangled sigh that followed. "A medical authority 1" she said, bitterly; "I would like to see the medical man that could understand amy disease."   ERNEST GREY.          35 "So would I," said Mr. Clements; "for it would be harder to come at than the northwest passage." "Dr. Neverdy said my lungs were affected," soliloquized Mrs. Clements, "and Dr. Kantphale said my heart; but I know very well that both are astray. Neither heart nor lungs are affected-of that I'm perfectly satisfied." "So am I the worst material wont wear out without use," Mr. Clements thought, but did not say. "Talk to me of heart!" she continued, "the man must have been an idiot." "I'm glad to hear from yourself that your heart's all right, Maria," said Mr. Clements, rising and putting on his over-coat and gloves. "Tell Robert that I expect to see him in the office to-day." And without waiting for an answer, Mr. Clements hastened to his place of business. About half an hour afterwards Robert lounged in, look- ing as blaze as he could after a night's dissipation. He merely trifled with his breakfast-sipped his coffee-cut his bread in pieces of an inch square-balanced his spoon on the edge of his cup, and committed other follies which a man seriously determined to breakfast never does. In short, he neither ate with the grave deliberation of a person who looks upon eating as an important business, nor yet with the haste of one who regards it as a necessary preli- minary to business. "What's the matter, Robert? what are you thinking   36      THE MERCHANTS FAMLY. of?" said Agatha. "Here have I been for the-last five minutes trying to get an answer to a very simple question." "What question?" asked Robert, abstractedly "Well, not a matter of life and death--so you need not exhibit such absorbing interest. Will you have another cup of coffee?" "I don't know," was the answer; "I believe not. Let me see." "I'm very glad to -see Robert so serious upon that sub- ject," remarked Mrs. Clements. "It's a subject that never received due attention from him-though I've often said that in a faulty system of dietetics was to be found the source of every malady." And Mrs. Clements once mounted upon her hobby, shook off her languor, and talked with a vigor and velocity that would have done credit to an ordi- nary pair of lungs. "Do you really think so, mother?" "I do, Robert." "It's a serious charge," said her son, gravely. "We will be safe in assuming that one half of the human race suffers from impaired and ruined health; and if so, what follows-that half the human race are suffering because they know not what to eat, when to eat, and how to eat. Such an idea is enough to make one pause." "What of the thousands who are relieved from all these embarrassments," observed Agatha;- "whose annoyances   ERNEST GREY.        ,  7 are all summed up in the simple question-Can we get any- thing to eat?" "Well, sister mine, that's a question that demands only an 'aye  or a 'no.' No harassing details enter into the consideration of it. If people possess a know- ledge of their own resources, it can be easily and cor- rectly answered. But with mother the mere fact of eating is nothing." "Most true, Robert. Two feelings alternately influence me-the dread of taking anything injurious, or omitting to take anything that would be beneficial. Anything else is. beneath the consideration of a rational creature. .For my part, I wish eating could be -dispensed with-altogether-it is so tiresome               , ---- "' Oh cruel fate, That Rosalinda can't by proxy eat,' Eh, mother?" said Robert. "I have often told you, Robert," petulantly exclaimed the mother, " that the wretched, trifling kind of talk -in which you are so prone to indulge, is disagreeable to me. You don't seem to realize-neither you nor your father- and indeed I may say, neither does Agatha-how very delicate I am, and how much I suffer. Yet you don't appear obtuse on other points. No, no, Robert; don't talk to me-I'm not able for it. Talk to Agatha."   38       BRO'THIS AND SISTER. "v ery well.. Agatha, come here,"-and he drew her to the window-" what was father saying this morning?" "About you?" "Yes, about me," said Robert, bitterly; "am I not up for discussion at every meal." "He wishes you to attend to business regularly-to be seen at home sometimes,-and to go down to the office to-day. That's not too much?" "No-that's not too much; but how was it said, that's the thing. I don't believe father was ever young. Here am I past seventeen-time for a man to be independent; and I haven't got a sixpence that I can call my own. Sixpence I I haven't got a cent; but as he doles it out to me; and you know how that's done-either in churlish silence, or accompanied with bitter reflections on my past extravagance. I wonder did his father ever treat him so. I'm not so extravagant as any one of my acquaintances-- no, not by a long shot. There's Will Somers-he receives three or four times the amount I do; and yet he always wants money. He wants it now-he wants fifty dollars from me, and I promised to have it for him this evening. "Oh, Robert I how could you be so foolish?" "What couldl I do, Agatha? You don't understand these things. That sneering fellow, Dick Morton, was present, and he said-' Don't ask Robert-he lend money i -he's too much afraid of the Governor.' I must have it   ERNEST GREY.        . 39 to-night-I'll go right down to the office and sound father. If he behaves generously with me now, I'll be as regular as clockwork in future?. If he don't-ho I for California." And with this threat on his tongue, Robert proceeded to the office. *    CHAPTER V. ROBERT CLEMENTS' FINANCIAL SCHEME--THE FIFTY DOLLAR BILL. MBR. CLEMENTS was surprised and pleased to see Robert in the office about an hour after he had himself got there; but in accordance with what he considered a judicious plan, he took no notice of him, for Mr. Clements was one of those persons-and their name is legion-who censure promptly, but praise reluctantly. Robert set to work with a will, for he was anxious to propitiate his father, and to silence the importunate monitor within. Stimulated by such motives, he succeeded even beyond his most sanguine anticipations. With success came self-complacency, and he sought his father's -face with a look that seemed to say "here I am, father, what do you say now." But Mr. Clements said nothing, by a word or look. "He hid behind his face," and what a hiding-place that was I Robert could make nothing of it, so he resolved to take the initiative, for the day was wearing awav, and he was beginning to feel desperate. In   ERNEST GREY.         41 fancy he saw the contemptuous sneer, and heard the mock- ing laugh of Dick Morton. With a flushed cheek he threw down his pen, and startedto his feet. "Ha! tired already," said Mr. Clements, in a chilling tone. A bad beginning, thought Robert; but a bad beginning often makes a good end-so here goes. "No, not tired exactly-only a little wearied. I'm so unused to sitting; but when I'm fairly broken in, I guess. I'll work in the harness as ploddingly as the oldest stager in the concern." Mr. Clements wrote on, and gave no sign that he had heard him. "Father," said Robert, after a momeht's pause, "I really think I've a talent for business. It strikes me very forcibly that I could  " "Robert," said Mr. Clements, turning right round and facing his conscious son, "what's your object? Is your coming down here to-day a mere trick? I know you are extravagant-I don't want to think you mean. If you want money, ask for it, and don't beat about the bush." "If I want it That I do," said Robert, emphatically. "Then, sir, perhaps you will learn the proper value of it in time. You will get none from me." Mr. Clements resumed his pen, as if nothing had occurred to disturb his equanimity, and filled page after page with an industry that would have been, at once, example and   42      THE FIFTY DOLLAR BILL. reproof to Robert, if Robert had not been too much occu- pied with his- own thoughts to observe him; but all the time he was engrossed by the one idea-how to get the money before evening. What was he to do?: How could he meet his gay companions without a cent of the promised sum? He was so absorbed in his own thoughts, that he did not observe his father leaving the room, nor the entrance of one of the porters of the establishment, till the man addressed him. "Papers?  Yes, there are papers on the desk-who wants them?" "Mr. Clements," said the man. "Well, take them. These must be the ones wanted. "Was ever fellow in such a fix?" said Robert, pacing up and down the apartment after the man departed ; " was ever any fellow in such a fix as I am? I'm regularly floored I Get it I must, if I beg, borrow, or steal. Beg- ging I have tried already-not much to be made by that. What if I try borrowing? Ay I very good; but who'll lend--two must play at that game. Why, what is this?" On the floor, by Mr. Clements desk, lay a small piece of paper. Robert picked it up-it was a fifty dollar bill. "Just the amount. Fortune owed me a good turn- that's a fact; and she's inclined to clear off scores-an honest old lady, after all. But father will miss it. Pshaw I nonsense I not he. What an idea!"   ERNEST GREY.         43 He paused a while and then continued-"' Now Dick Morton, my fine fellow, we'll see. Come along Bob,- you are not beat yet my boy." Putting the bill in his pocket after this self commen- dation, he hastened out without a thought of the open, dis- arranged desk he left behind. M\   CHAPTER VI. ERNEST GREY AT HOME--RICHARD KANE'S UMBRELLA. A LITTLE before Grey's time for coming home, Lizzy took her sewing and hastened down, anxious to discover, if possible, her friend of the morning. The name on the handle after all might not be his, but she was in hopes that her description taken in connection with it, might enable Grey to make him out and return the umbrella. The rain was beating unmercifully against the windows, and the moaning dismal wind swept through the narrow lane making  "wintry music."  Up it came under the broken door frame, and through the shattered window panes, and played around the flickering lamp and shivering inmates, and then again its accompaniment, the rain, beat upon the glass. It was one of those depressing evenings that check the flow of the animal spirits as the frost binds up the stream. "Why Jane," said Lizzy entering--" how comfortable the place looks-it feels almost warm." "Ernest was in sucH low spirits this morning, anl It'9   ERNEST GREY.          45 so cold"-she drew -the thin -shawl close around her- "that I thought I would have the place a little comfprt- able for him when he came home. So I put out the fire, put Steve in bed and kept myself as warm as I could. Now I have a good fire without being extravagant, Liz. That's the reason." "You're a dear, good soul, Jane-That's what you are. But where's Steve? Sleeping,?  Shall I wake him." "Do--his father will be here presently." Lizzy tried to waken him, but in vain---the little -eye- lids were firmly closed. "The lazy fellow!" she said turning away--" he sleeps like a top." A twitching about the mouth and a tremulous motion of the eye-lids betrayed him. "Oh I you young rogue. I've caught vou at last," said Lizzy stooping down. He was asleep. "Well I if I didn't think he was tricking me, Jane,-- and the poor child fast asleep." "No I ain't I ain't asleep," shouted the child, delight- ed at the success of his ruse. "I -heard you all the time- I was only making believe--N ow let me up-here's father." :' Yes, and wet through," said Jane laying her haind upon his shoulder. :"Throw off that coat Ernest, and put this shawl about you."   "   t RICHARD KANE'S UMBRELTA. "What! the shawl you're wearing? I'll do no such thing," was the almost angry reply. "Ain't she a great woman Lizzy, to be giving up her shawl'? Which of us looks the coldest. Put on your shawl Jane," he continued, coughing down some uneasy sensation, "There I'll take my coat off, if that'll satisfy you-it will soon dry at that fire." (Ain't it a good fire, father?" said Steve, triumph- antly. "Yes, my boy, a warm fire," and he drew closer to its cheerful blaze. More loud and incessant grew the dash of the rain drops, and more angry the importunate wind rattled at the case- ment, but all the brighter burned the fire, glowing and sparkling as if it derived new life and vigor from- the ele- mental contest. "We had no fire all day, father, and mother kept me in bed." Ernest turned round quickly, and gave his wife one look that would have repaid her for weeks spent among Alpine snows. "How it storms," said Lizzy, as a gust shook, the win- dow. "I never saw such a day. "Father don't like the rain-do you, father?" said the child. ' No, my son."   ERNEST GREY.:   .  "Well, father, why don't you get an umbrella?  Liz has one." "Has she? that's right." "Oh yes, and such a nice one. Where is it, Liz?", Jane brought the umbrella, and showed it to her husband. , Richard Kane!" said he, after a close scrutiny of the handle ; why, that's the name of the carpenter that Mr.. Clements employs sometimes." "Is he young or old?" "Well, he's a good-looking young fellow of twenty-five, or thereabouts." "That's his umbrella. Will you bring it to him to- morrow, Mr. 'Grey, and tell him rm so thankful to him?" "How  did you come by it, Lizzy?   Do you know Kane?" "No, 'but I met him  this morning during a heavy shower, and he forced me to take it." "Very likely, it was him: he is just the man to do such a thing. There's not a braver nor a kinder fellow in the whole Fire Department, and that's saying a great deal. I shall bring him the umbrella to-morrow." "Don't give away the nice umbrella with the letters," said Steve. "It's mine, father." "Yours I Oh, Steve, for shame!" said his mother. "Liz would give it to me without me asking her--so she would. Wouldn't you, Liz?"   48     RICHARD KANE'S UMBRELLA. "Come here, my son," said his father, taking, the child upon his knee, while his sad care-worn face looked a shade sadder. "Will Liz give your marbles to Jim Birch?" . "No, she wont," said Steve, decidedly, "they're not her's ; they're mine, so they are." "But if she'd rather give them to him?" "She wouldn't," persisted Steve, reddening and manfully keeping down the tears--" would you, Liz-would you give my marbles to Jim Birch? She wouldn't." "But if she would, Steve?" repeated his father. "They ain't her's, father; they're mine, and I wont let her," said Steve, thoroughly roused. "Very well," rejoined the father, putting him down; "that umbrella belongs to Richard Kane. Now, can Liz give it to you?" With a child's instnructiveo quickness he saw the drift of his father's question, and remained silent for awhile ; then turning to Lizzy Roberts, he said--"I don't want the umbrella ; I'll buy one when I get money of my own." ' I think I heard a noise," said Lizzy, rising; " mother must be awake. -You won't forget the umbrella, Mr. Grey?" Lizzy found her mother sitting up in bed, impatient for a drink, and angry at having been left alone. Old age and ill health had impaired her reason, and she was often   ERNEST GREY.          49 querrulous and exactmg, sometimes accusing her daughter of depriving her of the requisite nourishment, and lamenting her own fate in -having such a hard-hearted child. Poor Lizzy Roberts! before this trouble all others seemed nought. She could sit and sew until two or three-in the morning, eat sparingly of coarse food, and be contented; feel her strength wearing day by day, without a care save that it might be preserved to her while her mother lived; know that her youth was going by the day-;not year-- and that her good looks were of the past, without a sigh. But this was too much for her-she wasn't hardened to it yet. The drink was given and after some incoherent grumb- ling the old woman fell asleep. Then Lizzy raked the dying embers together, trimmed the lamp, bathed her eyes in cold water, and drawing her bench close to the miser- able fire sat down to work. The fire did not last long, for it was not replenished. Once, indeed, she turned to the coal pail but it was half empty, and with a sigh the needle was resumed. Thus she sat and sewed for hours; the noisy city became gradually still, the sounds of life died away, the wind which had worn itself out gently expired, and nothing was heard save the ceaseless drip of the rain. Terrified at finding herself yielding to sleep, Lizzy had again recourse to the cold water, and, after a vigorous application, took up her unfinished task. She worked   THE SHRT SSEWEK.  rapidly for a while but sleep overcame her. "Blessings on the man who invented sleep" said Sancho Panza, but how would Lizzy Roberts, and her sad sisterhood bless the man who could annihilate sleep. "If I was sure to awake at five," said Lizzy, continu- ing the debate with herself that had been going on for a long time, "I might lay down. I guess the cold won't let me sleep too long-I could finish it up in two hours." Having placed the matches At hand for the morning, and carefully extinguished the lamp, Lizzy wrapped a shawl around her, threw herself across the foot of the bed, and was soon in a fitful troubled slumber.   CHAPTER VII. PAY-UAY IN THE SHIRT STORE.-HOW THEY DO BUSINESS IN MR. SHARPE'S.-LIZZY ROBERTS' BOARDER. As Lizzy had foreseen, the cold wakened her early enough, and she arose shivering, with fingers numb and temples burning, but she had no time to be sick,-so after squeez- ing and rubbing her hands to warm them, she began where she had left off three hours before, and by seven had her work neatly folded up ready to take to the store. One hasty glance at the bed to assure herself that her, mother still slept, and snatching up her bundle with a lighter heart than usual she hurried away. It was pay-day, and she thought as she hastened to the store how delighted her mother would be to get a good cup of tea, and the unusual luxury of butter. Now Mr. Sharpe was a tactician in his way, equal to any military or political strategist that ever rose to fame; indeed in the abstruse science of business politics he had no superior. In his store there was one fixed principle of action, one settled rule of business-never to receive work  52    PAY-DAY IN THE SHRT STORE. without making depreciatory remarks upon it, lest the girls thinking it faultless might become remiss, just as a jockey would apply whip and spur to a horse at full speed to prevent him slacking. Of course Lizzy had to go through the ordeal, and after that was told there was no work cut out-that she might wait; and she did wait for more than an hour and was then told to leave her book and it would be made up. "Not pay to-day!" exclaimed an indignant voice. "Why not? You told me you paid your hands every week; and here have I been working for a month without receiving a cent. How do you expect we can get on without money?" "Can't pay to-day," was the curt reply of the cashier. "Got a bill to meet." "And have I not got a bill to meet? have I not got my board to pay? I must have my book settled." "So must I," said one, "and so must I," said another. "Say, Mr. Jones," said a tremulous voice, "won't you settle my book? You promised last week-indeed you did. I don't feel well, and I want to go to an aunt I have in Connecticut. I told you all about it last week." The speaker was a slight, young girl, with sunken eyes, and cheeks brilliant with that -deadly cosmetic-consump- tion. Her hand was pressed to her side while speaking, as if the exertion pained her, and her words were jerked o4 at intervals.   ERNEST GREY.         53 Mr. Jones winced under this appeal-he remembered his promise perfectly, and if she had been alone he would probably have kept it. But what could he do--he got orders not to pay, and he could not venture to disregard them. "Connecticut! Poor thing!" murmured one of the workers who stood beside Lizzy ; "the air of Italy wouldn't save her. Mr. Jones," she said aloud, "settle her book, and I'll leave mine over for a week, and so I'm sure will others." "God knows I would cheerfully," said an elderly woman, "if I had no one to think of but myself, but I can't forget my two littlechildren." "Nor I my poor mother," whispered Lizzy, turning her moistened eyes to the person beside her. "It ain't a great deal," said the young girl, "only four dollars; I couldn't earn much. I wouldn't mind coming again for it, if I was able"Y "Are you going to pay any one?" said the person who resented his want of punctuality. "Can't do it," was the dogged reply. "Why do you put in' your advertisements 'pay every week,' then, humbugging people." "Who's raising her voice in this store?" said the pro- prietor majestically, opening the parlor-door and display- ing a well-furnished breakfast-table.   54   HOW THEY DO BUSINESS IN MR. SHARPENS. i A woman kicking up a muss about her money," replied the clerk. "Discharge that woman, Thomas; we can't have dis- orderly people working for us. What's on her book? Let me see." "Six dollars and thirty-seven cents. Can you change a dollar bill, missus?" An emphatic shake of the head was the only answer. "It isn't every one can afford to throw up-work," solilo- quized the gentleman, examining a plethoric pocket-book. "I can't afford to throw up my customers. Ah, you can't change a dollar bill? Then you've got to come after the thirty-seven cents again, or I'll change it foruand deduct sixpence-that's the rate in Wall street." "Sixpence for changing a bill l" exclaimed the woman, amazed. "I could get it changed in any grocery store up town." "You could, eh? Well, you see we haven't got the up- town way of doing business here. We do different. Will you have it, ma-am? We don't want to force you to take it.' "Of course I must," she said, indignantly; "I can't be coming after it all the time." "Six dollars and thirty-one cents-all right, ma-am-'we don't cheat any one in this establishment. Thomas, you can manage matters without me, I suppose."   ERNEST GREY.          55 Having arranged this matter to his satisfaction, the shirt manufacturer returned to his comfortable breakfast, inveighing against the insolent and discontented spirit of the poor. As soon as he left the store, the young girl who had been so kind to Lizzy Roberts on a previous occasion, came from behind the counter, and stooping down, put four dollars into the hand of the poor invalid, saying in a low voice- "Thomas will pay it back to me. Go to your aunt at once." Mr. Jones declared positively that he would pay all hands in two days, and deterred by the vigorous measures of Mr. Sharpe, they left the store dissatisfied, but silent. Sorrowfully Lizzy retraced her steps. How could she return home-how soothe her mother's childish fretfulness-' how apologize to the grocer who had trusted her so long, and who expected payment to-day. "I have got to do it,'" she repeated to herself again and again, as if the phrase were a spell to exorcise indecision-'"I have got to do it- I wish I was at home. Half-past nine!" she said aloud, as she looked at the City Hall clock--" two whole hours lost i" "You walk very fast, Miss Roberts. I found it difficult to overtake you." . Lizzy turned, and saw beside, her the person who had proposed to do without her money, on condition that her   56      LIZZY ROBERTS' BOARDER. invalid fellow-worker was provided with means to go to Connecticut. Margaret Linwood, for such was the name of her new companion, seemed to be five or six years older, and judging from the expression of her features, had more intellect and strength of character. She might be con- sidered a type of that class of women who are sometimes to be met with in the work-rooms of the great metropolis, and who have been reduced from a state of independence to labor for their support. To considerable natural abili- ties were added the advantages of a liberal education, and these, combined with high principles and a kind benevolent heart, made Margaret Linwood a woman of no ordinary character. "I wanted to make up for the time I lost in the store," said Lizzy; "we have been kept waiting so long. I wonder Mr Sharpe can reconcile it to his con- science." "Oh  he is on such good terms with his conscience," replied Margaret, "that he can afford to take liberties with it. Besides, Mr. Sharpe is a great moral teacher-he gives his workers facilities for practicing the sublime Chris- tian virtues, patience and humility, and he disinterestedly gives them, in his own person, examples of what they should avoid. But it was not for the purpose of passing a eulogium on Mr. Sharpe that I followed you: I want to know if you will take me as a boarder."   ERNEST GREY.         57 "Boarder!" repeated Lizzy with unfeigned astonish ment; "we have no accommodations for any one." "I don't want accommodations. How could a shirt- sewer pay for them? I want a shelter-a corner in the room occupied by yourself and mother would be accommo- dation enough for me. If you cannot board me, at least give me house-room, and I will pay half the rent." "I don't know what to say," replied Lizzy; "I would like to consult mother.- But you don't know how miserable our place is." "The place I live in is not very magnificent; the rent is three dollars a month." "That's what we pay." "Then by my plan we could each save three shillings a week, and it would take some thousand stitches to earn that." "I know it," assented Lizzy; "but my mother is very old and very ill, and she talks wild sometimes: besides, we live in the attic." "So much the better-I can work on without interrup- tion. Nothing could there distract my attention." "This is the place," said Lizzy, turning down Short's alley, and stealing a -glance at her companion, to see the effect it produced, for during the walk she had been revolv- ing the proposition in her mind, until she realized its advan- tages. Three shillings a week without an extra stitch- turn it as she would, it meant that. I     68      LIZZY ROBERTS' BOARDER. They made their way up the trembling stairs, avoiding the frail balusters, more a trap than a support, and heard Mrs. Roberts' incoherent mutterings, even before they entered the room. Lizzy immediately made known to her Margaret's proposition, to which she listened attentively, but the only clear idea she had was, that they were to receive three shillings a week. "And when you get so much money, Lizzy," she said in a tone of childish entreaty, " won't you buy me some wine?" "Yes, mother, yes." Say, Lizzy," she continued in an audible whisper," couldn't the lady give you the money now, and let you buy it?" Lizzy was just then seized with a violent fit of coughing, and of course could not hear her mother's suggestion ; cer- tainly she did not reply to it, but bustled about the room, making an unusual noise for one so quiet. Margaret had taken her seat on a chair at the foot of the bed, and listened to the old woman's words without appearing to hear them, and noticed Lizzy's transparent stratagem with- out appearing to see it. "Well, Miss Roberts," she said, addressing Lizzy, "you have given me no answer yet. Believe me, I would not be troublesome, either as a lodger or boarder. If I under- stand your mother, she will not object." ":No I no I no I nor Lizzy neither," exclaimed the old woman, with unusual vehemence.   ERNEST GREY.          59 "Very well, then ; it's all settled." Opening her little bundle, she took out her work and began sewing, while Lizzy was coaxing the kettle to boil with the smallest possible modicum of fire; but the kettle was obstinate-it would not be coaxed--it stood upon its dignity, and required just as much heat there as in the kitchens of the Fifth Avenue. All the time that Lizzy seemed intent only on boiling the kettle, she was nerving herself to face the grocer., Her evident abstraction was observed, and rightly interpreted by Margaret, who knew the cruel disappointment she had suffered that morning at the store. "You are to be housekeeper," she said, "so you will take charge of. this dollar, and every pay-day we will make up our accounts." Relieved thus opportunely, Lizzy set about preparing breakfast in real -earnest ; and while she is thus occupied, we will see how it fares with the other characters in our story.   CH A PT E R   VIII. THE STOLEN BILL--PHYSIC AND LITERATURE'-PRISON DISCIPLINE. WITH a brow more clouded than usual, Mr. Clements returned home. Contrary to Robert's expectations, he missed the bill almost immediately, and hurried back to his office in search of it. It is needless to say that his efforts were fruitless. On whom did his suspicions fall? On Robert?  Not for a moment. Though Robert was wild, thoughtless and extravagant, he was his son, and to suspect him, would be to insult himself. His son become a thief!--preposterous. He would have repelled the idea indignantly, if such an idea could have entered his mind. No; if he thought of Robert's visit to the counting-house, it was a fortunate occurrence by which he might ascertain, with more exactness, the time the money disappeared. It was not the amount lost that annoyed him, but the fact that there was some one about him he could not trust. If fifty dollars were taken, why not a thousand-why not more?   ERNEST GREY.          61 Agatha observed her father's gloomy look, and attributed it to Robert's having asked for the fifty dollars; but deem- ing it more prudent to appear ignorant of the matter, she abstained from alluding to it, even indirectly. "I want Robert. Is he at home, Agatha?" inquired Mr. Clements. "I think not," she replied, at a loss to understand what he was required for, for her father's voice had lost the asperity with which he generally spoke of, or to, his son. One thing was evident to her,-he did not want to lecture him-the annoyance, whatever it was, proceeded from some other quarter. 'It was soon ascertained that Robert was not at home, having left about half an hour before his father arrived. Mr. Clements felt disappointed, and in moody silence paced tip and down the room, 'thinking over all the circumstances connected with the theft, and endeavoring to fix upon the guilty party. Mrs. Clements, unconscious of or indifferent to what was going on about her, was attentively studying the last new novel, and had just reached the most interest- ing part of the story, where difficulties gather around the heroine like clouds around the sun at eventide, when she was interrupted by the entrance of visitors. Mrs. Alworthy and her daughters were remarkable for nothing in particular. They dressed and talked just like other-people; minded their neighbors business more than   62      PHYSIC AND LITERATURE their own, just like other people,-and, in fact, were rather common-place altogether. Mr. Hamilton, a relative of theirs, and a highly-esteemed friend of Mr. Clements, accompanied them. "Dear Mrs. Clements, I am delighted to see you have so much energy," said Mrs. Alworthy, glancing at the open book. "You feel better." "Better I Oh, no; I don't expect ever to feel better. I have ceased to hope." "Don't you think reading is too exciting for your nerves? -too fatiguing." "How ridiculous to say that novels are fatiguing," said Miss Alworthy, addressing Agatha. "They never fatigue me-that is, if they have plenty of love and murder, and robbery, and that kind of thing in them." "Does one murder satisfy you, Letty?' inquired Mr. Hamilton. "Pshaw I one murder is nothing in a book." "'Who peppers the highest is surest to please,"' said Mr. Clements. "Sue and Dumas will give you excitement enough." "Oh, yes; they are delightful. Everybody likes them. You do, of course, Miss. Clements. No I Why not? Don't you like his style of writing, his characters, and all that?" "No; I like neither his characters, nor his incidents. I think they are both unnatural and improbable. If we   ERNEST GREY.          63 must have monsters, I, for my part, infinitely prefer the perfect monsters of the old school." "Their women ought to be sent to the Magdalene Asy- lum, and their men to Sing Sing," said Mr. Clements, sternly. "Monte Christo and Fleur de Marie are splendid types of manly persistence and womanly purity." "Don't talk about such dreadful things," said Mrs. Clements, imploringly; then addressing Mrs. Alworthy, she added-"I'm a perfect sensitive plant; the slightest thing agitates me." "Have you heard of this new wonder discovered by a French Chemist?" inquired Mrs. Alworthy, lowering her voice. Mrs. Clements became animated at once. "Elixir vitae 1" she exclaimed. "I feel a presentment that that would cure me.' Where is it to be got?" "Somewhere in Wall street.  I forget the number. Mr. Clements can find out the exact place." "No, no, impossible-I'm so unfortunately situated-all my family enjoy such robust health, that they have no sympathy for my sickness. They can't understand it- they have an idea it can always be traced to some extra- neous cause. Indeed, I overheard Robert say that sickness was always a punishment for some violation of the physical laws; and that we ought to be as much ashamed of being sick as intoxicated. He did not wish me to hear it, but,   "      PHYSIC AND LITERATURE. nevertheless, it hurt my feelings considerably to know that he entertained such opinions." "Certainly, of course ;" said her friend, sympathizingly. "You recollect that last great medicine, the 'Hystera- pipus.' Well, I procured it. Robert muttered something terrible about humbug. Mr. Clements pshaw'd and turned upon his heel, and Agatha entreated me to take very little of it." "Well, my dear Mrs. Clements, you certainly must have had great strength of mind and fortitude to take it in face of such opposition. - But, what effect had it on you?" "I'm firmly persuaded I would have been benefited by it, if I had complied rigidly with the directions, but-I really forget now why I did not. I presume they pre- vailed upon me to discontinue it. However, I don't think it suited me exactly." "You know Mrs. Wilson?' Mrs. Clements did. "She was effectually cured by the Hysterapipus." "Oh, but Mrs. Wilson was not affected as I am," said Mrs. Clements, with the tone of one who felt the compari- son to be insulting, and resented it. "Se's not of a nervous temperament; she's never carried away by her feelings; she has no enthusiasm. She could read the most affecting work without being moved by it. I have actually seen her lay down a book, in the middle of a thrilling pas-   ERNEST GREY.          65 sage, to attend to her crying baby--I really did,-and that's a piece of stoicism I cannot comprehend. Are they talking about that wretched Sing Sing again?" The conversation between the gentlemen had by this time become animated, arising out of Mr. Clements' sum- mary way of dealing with the heroes of Sue and Dumas. "Then you consider our present system of prison disci- pline defective," remarked Mr. Clements. "Defective is not the proper term," replied Mr. Hamil- ton. "I consider it radically wrong. Place the boy or man who has made but one false step, with the criminal who has grown grey in iniquity-the pupil who has not mastered the A B C of crime with its boasting professor I What can be the result? What is the result? Society flings them from her bosom, and they are Ishmaels thence- forth. The next session sees them up again for punish- mlent." 4'You ar e proving my case," said Mr. Clements, tri- umphantly. "The very moment they are out of the hands of the police, they return to their former haunts and occu- pations. This, you yourself admit. Is it not another ver- sion of what I have said, that they are prone to evil, and must be held in check?" "You misunderstand me. I do not admit that they are more prone to evil than you, or I, or any other man. If we were placed in the like circumstances, subjected to the   "       PRISON DISCIPLINE. same influences, educated as they have been--it may be, tempted as tSey have been, we might add another to the proofs of human depravity that the perverted industry of man brings against his own species. The prisoner enters his cell, guilty, we will admit; but still a human being--he leaves it-what our laws make him; and if 'the second state of that man is worse than the first,' where lies the blame?" "With the individual, I say again," replied Mr. Clements. "He is naturally bad, each day makes him worse--there is no road to the man's heart-impunity makes him bold-dis- covery makes him reckless. No, my dear sir; you can do nothing with him. And, depend upon it, there are none of these such novices as you imagine ; they have not been detected in the first offence, nor the second, nor the third. What would you do with them?  Let them loose upon society? We are living in the nineteenth century, Mr. Hamilton, and in the United States-not Utopia." "Granted," said Mr. Hamilton, smiling. "What would I do with them? I would treat them as men-erring, it is true, but still my fellow-creatures. Hatred for the crime, but compassion for the, criminal, is my creed. During the last century we have improved wonderfully in our treatment of the insane, and what is moral turpitude but 'the heart's insanity? We are desirous of healing one--we are only anxious to punish the other."   ERNEST GREY.          67 "I see what would suit you-moral hospitals, not prisons. Ha t ha I he I Hamilton, it won't do ; you are as mad as Don Quixote." "'They that are whole need not a physician ; but they that are sick,'" said Agatha, quietly. "This is a social, not a religious question," said, Mr. Clements, turning to his daughter with a look that added -" not a fit subject for you, Agatha." "If prisons were as they ought to be, reformatory estab- lishments, 'moral hospitals' would be a good name,-I will not quarrel with it. Now, Mr. Clements, imagine to your- self how effective our hospitals would be if they followed the prison system-if men suffering from neglected cold -were placed in the same ward with fever patients, how many would be dismissed cured, think you? Yet this is the plan we pursue in moral distempers, though the con- tagion works quicker, and the consequences are more deplorable." "Oh, my dear sir, there is no analogy whatever. Disease is not the result of choice-no man wishes to be sick-no man would shrink from a remedy, though unpalatable. Is it so in cases of moral distemper, or what I in my old- fashioned phraseology call crimes? Are they forced to fall?  Who, or what compels them?    Have they no alternative? or are they free agents, and if so, are they not responsible? If they sin, let them suffer. If they are   68        PRISON DISCIPLINE. afflicted with the moral infirmity of loving their neighbor too little, and his property too much, would you not seek a remedy?" "My first care would be that the remedy was not worse than the disease. My second, that it should not only sup- press the symptoms,- but eradicate the cause. But I do nlot believe that vice is the result of choice, generally speak- ing-many men enter the prison, for the first time, either under unjust suspicion, or because they are forced into the commission of crime by the direst necessity. But they are not the only criminals-the only moral lepers with which society is afflicted-the thief and the burglar may steal your property, and you can imprison them for doing so, but what punishment can you inflict upon the man who slanders you, or destroys the peace of your family? If he is rich, his wealth stands like a rampart between him and the law, against which all- your assaults are in vain. So- ciety does not regard such men as criminals, yet let the poor man be but once suspected, and he is disgraced for- ever. He is thrown into the tainted atmosphere of a prison; he is compelled to associate with men who are hardened in iniquity; but worse than all, the possibility of crime is suggested to him, and the next time he enters the prison there is no room for suspicion" "Proving how correct the first estimate of the man's character had been. Do you really believe that one man,   ERNEST GREY.          69 or twenty men can drive another into crime by suspecting him of it? Must I be dishonest because you are sus- picious? Are our good or evil deeds only the reflex of our neighbor's character?" Mr. Clements paused in triumph. "Men generally," said Mr. Hamilton, "square their con- duct with their reputation-it is not what they would wish to do, but what is expected of them-that's the idea by which they are actuated. I know some natures can defy the distrust of friends and the force of example; but they are few in number, and must have a stronger support than morality, however exalted.' Deciduous trees are more com- mon than evergreens." "Apropos of trees, do you remember, Hamilton, what Carlyle says about neglecting the wood while sound, and searching for it when rotten, to fashion it into something useful?" "If I recollect the passage aright, it is intended to. incite to early exertion, and not for the purpose of ridiculing any effort, however late.  However, similies are poor argu- ments. To return to the education of circumstances--does not familiarity with danger make a man indifferent to it, and  familiarity with crime lessen his abhorrence of it? The gradations have been well defined- 'First abhor, then pity, then embrace.' then pity, then cm   70        PRISON DISCIPLINE. Then what an amount of responsibility rests upon those who familiarize him with it-who force it on his observa- tion--who leave him no escape. After the convict has been discharged, what chance has he? He is free, to be sure, and so is the man thrown into an open boat on the ocean, but who is to encourage or help?" "My dear fellow 1" said Mr. Clements, " excuse me for saying that that is very excellent philanthropic nonsense; but would you trust one of those discharged convicts with a thousand dollars?" "Yes, unhesitatingly. But, observe,--I would trust him with it, not throw it in his way. He should understand he was trusted, and my life oni it, not one in a hundred would betray a trust reposed under such circumstances. But do not imagine that I would abolish punishment for crime. Imprison, certainly, but do not drive out one disease by creating another. It is not to the confinement I object, but to its accessories. One attack of sickness does not make a man an invalid for life, though unskillful treatment often makes the disease chronic. Why should one fault make him an outcast? If there be not a recu- perative power in our moral, as in our physical nature, we: ought to have been created impeccable." "You forget," said Mr. Clements, " '-that virtue is not virtue if she stumble.' Why don't you philanthropists take up the cause of the guiltless poor? Are there not   ERNEST GRBEY.         71 thousands of women struggling for a precarious livelihood in this city, for whom you might exert yourselves'; or are your sympathies exclusively for the vicious?' ' There are many evils in society calling loudly for redress," replied Mr. Hamilton; "and is it not better to take up even the least of these, than to stand idle debating upon their order of precedence?" "You are perfectly right, Mr. Hamilton," said Mrs. Clements, now for the first time taking part in the discus- sion. "You remind me of an occurrence that took place yesterday. Agatha had a tangled skein of silk to unravel, and she lost so much time looking for the right end, that I told her to, take any end she could get; and, I assure you, if she had not done so, the skein would have been unraveled yet." "Thanks, my dear madam, for your admirable illustra- tion," said Mr. Hamilton, bowing to his fair ally. "Work with an earnest will must accomplish something. Next century will look back on our treatment of prisoners, as we look back upon the rack, the dungeon, and the pressing to death." "Oh next century, I have no doubt, will be too enlight- ened to tolerate that relic of barbarism-a prison," rejoined Mr. Clements. "Why let the next age make capital out of us," said   72       PRISON DISCIPLINE. Mr. Hamilton, laughing. Here is a chance to get ahead of them, if we chose." "Oh, George, you would not abolish prisons," said Mrs. Alworthy, in an accent of indignant terror. "If Mr. 'Hamilton could do as he pleases, a walk in Broadway would not be the simple thing it is now, Mrs. Alworthy. You would meet more rogues than gentlemen ---more thieves than traders." "Bless me I how dreadful I Really, George, you ought to be ashamed of holding such opinions." "Give up your clients, Hamilton," said Mr. Clements; "they will do you no credit." "But can I do them good?-that's the question an advocate should ask. However, I may give up the sub- ject, for it is one upon which you and I can never agree." ;  "Then you should never discuss it, George," said Mrs. Alworthy--" that's the plan I adopted with Miss Spencer, when we could not agree about the shade of Mrs. Syms new hat. I knew it was the real imperial purple-the genuine Tyrian dye, and she insisted that it was wine color -mere wine color." "It is of very little consequence what color Miss Syms has in her hat, for all colors are equally unbecoming to her," said Miss Alworthy. "Oh, she has a mind superior to such considerations, Letty," sneered her sister; "you know she reads noth-   Y WIFE AND CHLD ARE:- S T A R liliiS'r? HEADDAO GTICLL, AD CNDNOHNFOTEI.-     ERNEST GREY.           3 ing lighter than Schlegel, and sings nothing simipler thlln the soprano solos in Puritani." -I can certify to her reading the fashions," said 3:[iss Clements; " and I verily believe I have heard her sinl a ballad."  "Dear me; what condescension! It is all in keeping for poor me to do such things--but a literary lady--only think!" "Is Miss Syms a literary lady, Helen?" inquired Mr. Hamilton, addressing the other Miss Alwortly. "Yes, of the deepest dye. Ain't you afraid of her?" "No, my fair cousin. You are not afraid of her, and why should I be more timid than you?" "What literary lady used to have such dirty hands?' inquired Mrs. Clements. "Oh, yes--it was Lady Mary Montague, and I remember thinking, when I read it, that it accounted at once for the popular prejudice." "Against dirty hands," said Mr. Clements, with great gravity. "I am  sorry I cannot agree with you, but for my part I think that prejudice is of more ancient -date."' "You know very well what I mean, Mr. Clements, and you- should not affect to ml:sunderstand me." "cvry likely, my dear.  But, Miss Alworthy, what are the signs and tokens by which I can recognize a literary lady?"   74        PRISON DISCIPLINE. "I really could not tell you, FMr. Clements. I know them by a kind of instinct." : "'Instinct is a great matter,' certainly, but I fear mine is not so acute as yours." 'Then they are always readiung,' she added, in a tone of evident disgust; "I wonder what is the use of reading about what they did in Greece and Rlome centuries ago. I'm sure it would be a great deal more useful, not to speaki of its being more amusing, to read the descriptions of the latest Paris fashions, or an invitation to a ball, or the list of amusements in the morning, papers. But-speaking of fashions reminds me of Miss North. How is she?' "Quite well," replied Agatha; "I had a letter from her yesterday, and she promises to come down next week and make quite a long visit." "Ah,-indeed!" said Miss Letty Alworthy,-" that is good news for one gentleman, I know. Ain't it, George?" "For more. than one, I presume, Letty. Miss North is universally admired." "Emily is so lively," remarked Mrs. Clements--"too much so. I always have a headache when, she is in the house; but if I said so, she would only laugh the more." "Ah, mother, how can you say so," said Agatha--" it is delightful. to have her in the house. Robert says that when she is with us, she reminds him of 'sunshine in a shady place,' and he always calls ler ' Sunsline..'  "   ERNEST GREY.          75 "I have no doubt George thinks so too," replied Miss Alworthy; " but he is so sly, that he wouldn't say any- thing. However, I know very well; but you needn't look so frightened, George, I don't mean to tell." "Tell what you please, Letty. No secrets of mine are in your keeping." "Are they not? Well then, Miss Clements, he is over head and ears in love with your, cousin Emily! What do you say to that?" "That it does equal credit to his head and heart," said Agatha, imitating the tone and manner of a public speaker. "Young ladies," said Mrs. Alworthy, breaking up a half-whispered conversation with Mrs. Clements, and ad- dressing her daughters-" do you forget that we promised to call on Mrs. Spencer? :No--no--not now, my    dear Mrs. Clements-some other time, I shall be pleased to stay. Well, good-bye!" "Good-bye; Miss Clements," said Helen. "' Parting is such sweet sorrow, That I could say good-bye till it be morrow.'" "Beware of the purple hat, .Mrs. Alworthy," said Mr. Clements, in a warning voice, as they were leaving the door. "Oh,' probably Miss Syms  lias got a new one."   76        PRISON DISCIPLINE. No, no-impossible: she was not in church last Sun- day."  *'Then she certainly has not got one," said Mr. Ilamil- ton, " or she would have been there. Women are so grate- ful for blessings of that kind, that they invariably go to church to return thanks -the very first opportunity ; and I have always observed that the ardor of their piety is in proportion to the beauty of their dress." 'Miss Syms would go three times a day," said Miss Alworthy ; " she's always religious when she's well dressed." "Then a new fashion is equal to a revival," said Mr. Clements, "and Parisian Modistes are but faithful allies and auxiliaries of religion." "Certainly," said Agatha, " who could be religious in an old hat, or who would mope at home that had a new one. Besides, nothing but sheer selfishness. could make any one satisfied with merely having-they should ' suffer themselves to be admired.'  "I think so too," said Helen Alworthy; "and not be like a friend of mine, who is afraid to let any one see her hats or her dresses, lest they might get the same." "Miss Clements, 'do you know Mrs. Seymour?" inquired Mr. Hamilton. "Yes ; very well. What a beautiful woman she is?" "Well: my friend Seyauour says that, ever since their marriage, she has been subject to periodic fits of piety' and   ERNEST GREY.           " that these fits are simultaneous with the changes in the fashions. The moment a new style of hat comes in, she is seized with godliness, and must to church three times a day. But now he is beginning to understand the symptoms of the disease, and he says in future he will adopt the labor-saving plan, and in place of going. to church, he will arrange the hat on a salver, label it 'Mrs. Seymour's hat,' send it to church, and have it placed in the most conspicuous position. By this means he will satisfy his wife, spare himself a fatigu- ing walk, and gain a triple share of attention and notoriety for the article on exhibition.'" "What nonsense you talk, George," said Mrs. Alworthy. "Really, you ought to be ashamed." "He is an out-spoken libeler, ladies," said Mr; Clements; "but deal with him as gently as you can. 'Take care of yourself, George." The ladies, in company with Mr. Hamilton, took their departure, and proceeded on their way to Mrs. Spencer's, leaving Mr. Clements to meditate on the events of that day.    CHAPT1ER IX ARREST OF ERNEST GREY-THE MOTHER AND CHLD. ERNEST GRIEY proceeded to his work next morning, so occu- pied with his own thoughts, that he forgot the umbrella. Seeing one of the carpenters at work brought it to his remembrance, and he passed over to make inquiries about Richard Kane.' When he got within speaking distance, the carpenter dropped his plane, and went off in the oppo- site direction. Ernest hailed him, but to no purpose. Annoyed, he knew not why, he entered the warehouse, and found Mr. Clements in close conversation with a police officer. "That's the man," said Mr. Clements, pointing to Grey. "You are arrested for having stolen fifty dollars from Mr. Clements office last night," said the officer, in an ex- planatory tone. "Stolen!" exclaimed Ernest, bewildered, yet indignant; "what do you mean? Don't lay your hands on me, 1 warn you. Stolen! who says it?" "Mr. Clements-your employer."   ERNEST GREY.         79 "Mr. Clements i" Grey could scarcely speak, so great was-his emotion, for he saw clearly the consequences of the charge "Mr. Clements, do you accuse me of this- thig?" "Yes," replied Mr. Clements, coldly; "but ff von are guiltless, it will be easy to clear yourself of the charge." "What right have you to believe that it was I who did it-why not suspect him, or him?" he said, pointing to men who were in the office. "My reason for accusing you will be made known at the proper time and place. These men I know." "If you don't know me well enough to trust, you don't know me well enough to suspect me. How could I get to your money?" "I don't want to discuss the question now," said Mr. Clements, turning away abruptly. "Officer, do your duty." "Don't lay your hands on me, I warn you," said Grey, passionately, flinging the policeman from him as he spoke. "So that's your dodge-you want to escape--eh! You had better not try that on again, mind you-it won't do- I'm wide awake for you 1" exclaimed the offended official, grasping him tightly by the collar, and beckoning to another, who stood outside, to assist him. Thus accompanied, Gray was passed through be streets, and lodged in the Tombs, until he could be brought up for examination.   80      THE MOTHER AND CHLD. Bad news travels quickly, and Jane was not long left in ignorance of what had happened. Who could do justice to the feelings of the wife at this startling announcement? All she had endured-all the horrors of that dreadful winter were nothing compared with this-this was a woe that sympathy might aggravate, but could not soothe. Her first impulse was to go to him, to strengthen, to console-to make his mind easy about her and Steve, and to tell him that if all the world believed him guilty, she did lot. Like a true woman, strong when those she loved required support, she felt no weakness--she -could work- oh, Jane I Jane, with those poor weak arms-yes, she could work--she could support herself and Steve, for well she knew they .would be his first and last thought, and she could make him comfortable in prison. When such were her objects, could she fail? ,With a strong effort she repressed her tears, and made the preparations her scanty wardrobe allowed. But when told that she could not see him till the following day, her fortitude gave way, and flinging herself across the bed, she gave full vent to her tears. How long she remained thus she knew not, but she was roused at last by Steve striking against the door, with all the impotence of childish passion, and trying to get in. "Mother, come here," he said, dragging her by the sleeve his eyes sparkline through the tears that, as they   ERNEST GREY.          81 fell, were dried up on the burninog cheek--" come here and speak to Willy Short. He is calling father names; he says he's-a-a-a--" and poor Steve, after trying bravely, gave way, and sobbed as if his heart would break. She drew him gently in, and shut the door; then taking him on her knee, tried to soothe; but Steve, like a child, the more he was comforted the more he cried. "There-there--have done now. That's my own son. Be a good boy." 'Twas useless. "Oh, Stevey!" she exclaimed, in an uncontrollable out- burst of grief,-" won't you try and be a good boy while your father is away?" The reality of her grief awed the child, and he remained quite still, looking with round-eye'd wonder at the big drops that forced their way through her fingers. He had never seen her cry before, for Jane was a wise as well as a loving mother, and though the greater part of the child's existence had been passed amid penury, she repressed any outward manifestation of grief that might have saddened his youth- ful mind.  But now the one great -sorrow absorbed her to the exclusion of every other idea-the last blow dealt by fortune had stunned, her for a time, and Steve was almost forgotten.  Weep on, weep on-better the rain should fall than the sky be always clouded. After watchinr her for some  time with childish amaze-   82     THE MOTHER AND CHLD. ment, Steve inserted his little fingers between her hands, and strove, with gentle violence, to part them, that he might see her face, -whispering at the same time- "Steve ain't crying, mamma-Steve ain't naughty." The touch of those small, soft hands-what power was in them. Dashing away the tears that would fall of their own accord, Jane strained the child to her heart, kissed the fair, smooth brow, and said-- "Yes, darling I Steve is a good boy-it's Steve's mamma that's naughty to-day." And Steve, proud of his mother's approbation, sat by the window, quiet as a mouse, turning over in his busy little head the events of the morning, in his endeavors to discover by what inexplicable means Willy Short had got -the whip hand of him. What is the heroism of man on tented field or foaming wave, compared to the quiet courage with which woman, solitary and alone, sits down, face to face, with grief. Oh dread companionship I how much easier is heroism in action than in endurance. If Jane could have sought relief in action, her grief would have gradually become less poig- nant; but that anodyne was denied her. With severe self-accusation, she remembered that the work Lizzy Ro- berts had procured for her would be required to-morrow, and it was not ready yet. Eagerly she sought for it, as if it were a rampart against thought; but the work that   ERNEST GREY.          83 occupies the fingers and leaves the mind free, is sorrow's staulchest auxiliary. Look at her face as the work pro- ceeds, and say, has it lulled thought to sleep? No, no- one moment she flushes crimson, and the needle passes through the fine linen quick as lightning; but the next she shivers, as if with cold, -and her hands fall listlessly upon her knees-that work has not banished thought. "Say, mother," said Steve, "where did you buy my coat-this new coat"--the one made from his mother's cloak.    l "I didn't buy it, Steve." "You didn't buy it P" repeated the child. "You did- I know you did. Willy Short says you stole it; but I know better, and I knocked him down, too, said Steve, triumphantly. Jane winced. The child's simple words made her, for the first time, realize the full sense of their disgrace--even Phildren were cognizant of it.  With a heavy sigh Mrs.' Grey put aside her work, and sat down by the child. "My son," she said, earnestly, "you must not knock any of the boys down, .or quarrel with them. If you do, they won't let you play with them." "I don't care," said Steve, doggedly. "I don't want to play with them. Wlly Short told all the boys not to play with me, or I'd steal their marbles.",   84      THE MOTHER AND CHLD. "My poor boy! my poor' Steve!" said his mother, deeply affected and kissing him fondly ;- -"they didn't believe him." "Yes they did," replied Steve, with strange bitterness for one so young. ( I know they did, for they grabbed up their marbles as fast as anything, and then I knocked him down, and then he said my father was a thief." "Hush 1" said Jane, inexpressibly shocked, and putting her hand across the child's mouth. "Oh, Steve, how could you say that!" If there is one thing harder to bear than another, it is censure where we expect praise, and this was Stephen Grey's case at that moment. The childish spirit that had so fiercely resented insult, shrunk from his mother's sorrow- ful rebuke. His eyes filled, his lips quivered, and worn out by the first excess of emotion, he cried himself to sleep. ,Even in that moment of sorrow, Mrs. Grey felt a thrill of maternal pride, as she looked upon her sleeping child. The bright brown hair, which it was her pride and pleasure to keep smooth and glossy, fell in confusion on the fair forehead; tear drops were quivering on the long eye- lashes ; and emotion had imparted a brilliancy to the full round cheeks, that rivalled the rich cherry color of the pouting lips. Long and earnestly she gazed, scanning every feature with fond yet melancholy admiration, think- ing all, the while with Constance that-     -   ERNEST GREY.           85 "Since the birth of Cain, the first male child, To him that did but yesterday suspire, There was not such a gracious creature born." She laid him   gently op the bed, and re-commenced her sewing, striving, with an earnestness that insured success, to compose her mind, and arrange her -lans for the future.   CHAPTER X. ERNEST GREY IN PRISON-A WORLD WITHN THE WORLD-- AN EXECUTION. ERNEST GREY had been thrust into the common prison, where boys and men of every age, from twelve to sixty, were grouped together,-pickpockets, thieves, burglars, swindlers, forgers--recounting their exploits, and boasting of their adroitness in eluding detection, and the number of tines they had foiled the police. Ribald jests and obscene stories, the light artillery of vice, went flying through the room, until shame, virtue's frailest, last defense, was broken down, and many a cheek that had that morning blushed at the idea of disgrace, blushed, for the last time, a shade deeper at the recollection. Intentions, resolutions, aspira- tions, that under favorable circumstances might have borne fruit, withered in the noisome atmosphere of that hot-bed of crime. There the tyro learned to glory in his calling- learned that there was a world within the world, before unknown to him, governed by its own codes, where he could gain renown and where the gradations were as nicely   ERNEST GREY.          87- * I marked as unaer a European monarchy. 'Yet amid the sickening bravado of vaunting vice, the pride of proficiency, the boast of superior skill, would come contemptuous allu- sions to the past, when they were "( green," in tones that . betrayed the existence of a feeling they would blush. to own, even to themselves. Grey was received with a boisterous welcome, and itn- quiries on all sides as to what he had done. They de- manded of him-his ticket of admission, and desired to know what recommendations he brought with him to entitle him to recognition in such society. "Ha I my tulip," said one who was evidently looked up to by the rest as the leading spirit,-" what have you been about'? What did you touch?" "Nothing, so help me heaven," he replied, earnestly; for he could not bear that even' these, from whose com- panionship he involuntarily shrank, should deem him guilty. A burst of derisive laughter announced their incredulity. "Good   Good! That's it! Go in . You'll do, old feller ;" and similar phrases kreeted him on every side. " Well, you are a cunning shaver-that's a fact-to come to your time of day without being fetched," exclaimed another, in tones of unfeigned admiration. "How did you get jugged?-for taking a loan-eh? What's the amount?"   88     A WORLD WITHN THE WORLD. "Not a cent of any man's money that I did not honestly earn," was the indignant reply. "More fool you," said his questioner, turning on his heel in unmistakeable contempt-" you might as well have the gain as the name." "The first time I was in one of these establishments," said another, "about-let me see-I was just eighteen then-about forty years ago, I acted persactly like him." "You did? Well 1" exclaimed several. "But what was you up for?" inquired one "Only a trifle-some little matter in Pearl street-just beginning, you know-twenty dollars-and what do you think-the mean cuss prosecuted, although he got every red back. Only for him I might have been in the Common Council; but that spoiled my character-people are so narrow-minded." This sally of wit was greeted with a round of applause, and peals of uproarious laughter. "Was that your first go, Bill?" asked a precocious youth of fifteen. "No sirree--nor my second:; but that was the first time I ever laid my peepers on Dick Lightfinger. You all know Dick. Well, he was a-settin right opposite me, and cryin like a blubberin' baby. He was persactly eight years younger than me, so I went over and talked to him." "Ten years old! Well, I'll be blowed! but that was a   ERNEST GREY.         89- smart feller, and no mistake," interposed one of the eager listeners. "No wonder he's so advanced in his purfession., Ten years old?' "Smart feller! Don't you believe it. He hadn't touched anything, I tell you. He was no smarter than any body else; but he had advantages. Smart feller, indeed! Very well; who gave him his education-eh? I did; that night made a man of him." "But how did he get pulled, Bill?" "W ell, you see how it was, was this;" and he proceeded to tell how Dick, then a promising school-boy, returning home, saw two men fighting; how one of them was taken by a policeman, to whom Dick gave a clear account of what had passed; lhow he was put in prison as a witness, and thus thrown in the way of one who was already familiar with crime. The acquaintance there formed was continued, and resulted in the pupil surpassing his instructor in inge- nuity, if not in wickedness. To Ernest Grey there was a horrible fascination in the story of the innocent boy thus unconsciously innoculated with crime, and as the hoary ruffian concluded by saying, with a chuckle-"Ever since, when I'm hard up for green hands, I get in here, and take my pick and choice out of the recruits the law purwides for me"-he thought of his own child, his pretty, willful Steve, and groaned aloud. But his interest had been painfully excited, and he listened   906;    A WORLD WITHN THE WORLD. intently to the stories passing around. They were generally of daring robberies, or hair-breadth escapes, related with coarse humor and strong dramatic power; and when, by these means, he found his sympathies enlisted on the side of a desperate burglar, or fugitive thief-, he knew better how to estimate the strength of that temptation which had been so fatal to Dick Lightfinger. "Say, Bob!" roared a stentorian voice from the oppo- site side of the room--"What happened to that ere soft un you brought last y ear? What a precious soft un he was- the white-livered dog 1" ' Come, old feller!-play light there," cried Bob, " white- livered he was not--I know he was squeamish about blood- lettin', that's all. That was his weakness, and I'd bet five dollars to a cent he's grown out of it by this time, for he went to California after that." "Well, you may say what you like, but he was a sneak, and I had a kind o' doubt of him from the first.') "D   n your doubts--who cares for you? I say he was neither a sneak nor a cowardl; and I won't stand and hear him run down--mind that. I'd a d  d sight sooner have him with me in a fight than you, any day--though you do think yourself some." "How easy riled you are," said the other, apologetically -" what did he ever do for you?" "Only saved my life, but that's nothin'."   ERNEST GREY.          91 He did--eh I How was that?" "Well, it was the very night after that affair in Four- teenth street. I was walking down Leonard." "What about Fourteenth street?" inquired several- "that comes first." "D   n it! why don't you let a feller finish what he's sayin', and not be intcrruptin' him all the time. I shan't say another word to-night." He was entreated on all sides to finish his story, but entreaties were useless-for the rest of the night he was sullenly silent.  However, professional anecdotes were plenty, each one surpassing the other in excitement. In the middle of one of these stories, when the interest was at its height, and the attention of the listeners most profound, the sound of heavy hammers inside the prison walls made them pause. Again and again they hoard it, stroke fol- lowing stroke in quick succession. "They are tolling  poor Slype's death-bell," remarked one, with a  callous laugh. "The funeral procession will start to-morrow at-one o'clock; and I move that, in ordei to testify our respect for the deceased, we all attend." "Do you think he'll die game?" asked another. "Oh, yes I he'll stand up to the rack." "I don't believe it--he'll show the white feather. He ain't got the pluck, I tell yer." "I'll bet a V he'll die worthy of the purfession."   92         AN EXECUTION. "Done!-we'll see before this time to-morrow." The next morning there was great excitement among the prisoners, which increased as the hour of execution drew near. Outside, the excitement was still greater; from an early hour the prison gates were besieged by anxious crowds, eager to obtain admittance; and every street lead- ing to the prison was thronged with persons, who deemed it a privilege even to gaze upon the building within whose walls the dread tragedy was to be enacted. - All the house- tops in the immediate neighborhood were crowded with spectators, among whomn were men who would stigmatize the Spaniards as barbarians for patronizing bull-fights, and women who would sicken at the sight of blood, and shudder at a tale of terror. Every available spot within the prison-yard was filled -long before the appointed time, and as the hour approached, the eager spectators testified, by their frequent reference to their watches, their impatience at the delay. "Why, I thought it was to come off at one o'clock," said one, both disgusted and indignant at the tardiness of the officials. "Well, you see," replied his friend, "these things can't be done up in a hurry." "Was you at the jerkin' of Black Tom?" inquired .the first speaker.   ERNEST GREY.          93 "No; but I'm told it was as handsome a sight as you'd wish to see." "Handsome! I tell yer it was beautiful. I never see'd a feller as died so beautiful, and that's sayin' a great deal, for I've seen a good many strung up in my day. You know, Jake, I always was an amatoor in such things." "Ah, yes, that's a fact, Jim ;" said his companion, ad- miringly. In the cell where Ernest Grey was confined, the prisoners were busy making their preparations for the spectacle. The apertures, which served them for the purposes of light and ventilation, were not sufficiently large to give them a view of what was passing below, but their ingenuity soon overcame this obstacle. i"Say, Bob, you was always a fancy-man-some on the putty--don't you think you could raise a glass now, till we get a peep at the show? You hain't-eh! Well, have you got one, my beauty?" he again inquired, addressing the most repulsive looking man in the room.. "Look out for your own handsome mug, you sniggering cub, you, of I'll spoil your beauty," exclaimed the -other, fiercely, irritated at the general laugh against him. "Come, simmer down!" said Bill, authoritatively- "Simmer down, I say-we don't want any fighting among friends.: Can't you raise a looking-glass among you? and I'll tell what's going oni."   V^34     AN EXECUTION. A pocket-glass was soon procured, and after it was taken from its case, fitted into the end of a stick which was split for the purpose. It was then held out of the opening, in such a manner as to reflect The scene below. "I'd rather than a ten I was outside," said Bill; "there's considerable prigging to be done now. What a chance we've lost. Ha I Slype has made his first appearance on the stage," he shouted, in wild excitement, almost dropping the stick from his grasp. "Don't he look game, though." "Let us see-let us see!" they cried in chorus, each eagerly clutching at the stick. "Hold up there I D   n it, what are you about-I've nearly lost it already with you, and if it's gone, our sport's spoiled. The first man that does that again l'll throw it among the crowd." This threat had the desired effect-the'mutiny was sup- pressed, and Bill left in undisturbed possession. "What are they doing now?" inquired one of the pris- oners, with horrid interest. "Praying," replied Bill, turning up the whites of his eyes. "After praying a bit they'll run him 'up and give him a dance from the tight rope," added Bill, laughing at the coarse joke he had perpetrated. An indistinct murmuring sound penetrated the walls of the prison as the- rope was severed, and the wretched man struggled in the agonies of death.   ERNEST GREY.   95   "Slype's a goner!" exelaimed Several, all at once. "Well, there's no help for spilled milk," said Bill; "it's his turn to-day, and it may be ours to-morrow. After all, what is it but a jump in the dark. Twenty years ago Slype and me began our purfession under the scaffold-the very day that Nicksey was run up. Lord I what a smart feller he was. He wriggled his way through the crowd, like an eel through the mud. He-was a good feller too, and his heart was as big as a bull's, and even when he was going he wanted to help his friends. And now here I am boxed up-regularly queyed, and can't take .advantage of it, while many a feller, that didn't care a cent about Slype, is doin' a smashin' business out there on my capital." "There they go," said another, as the heavy tramp of the retiring crowd was heard. "I suppose he's quiet enough now, for they wouldn't move while there was a kick in him." "If there ain't a kick in him, there's a kick in his gallop,; remarked another, with a brutal laugh. Half an hour later the body was cut down and laid in a rough pine coffin; and the crowd; which had been-gradu- ally dispersing from the moment all signs of life had ceased, completely deserted the prison-yard. In and around the prison everything went on as before; but on the street- corners boys were rehearsing the revolting tragedy, and in the groggeries and saloons it formed the all-absorbing topic   96         AN EXECUTION. of conversation. For weeks after the fearful brute, cour- age and stoicism, with which he met his death, were the theme of unbounded eulogy among those who regarded such qualities as the only proofs of true heroism, in their admiration of these, all recollection of the crime for which he suffered was forgotten.   CHAPTER XI. DISAPPOINTMENTS--OUGHT TO BE CONTENT. EVERY day Lizzy Roberts' affection and admiration for Margaret increased, and- she felt thankful for the chance that had thrown such a friend in her path, particularly at a time when the loss of Ernest Grey's family made her feel more lonely and desolate than- ever. It was so different from sitting alon6--it was so pleasant to hear the sound of a human voice, although it discoursed of no higher themes than the mystery of shirt-making, or the comparative merits of rival establishments. But their conversation was not confined to these vital matters, for Margaret had read much, and she was pleased tq share her knowledge with Lizzy, to repeat to her, passages from favorite authors, and tell her all she knew. Ernest Grey's fate, however, was of deeper interest to both, and engaged more of their atten- tion, than all other subjects combined. "Why wouldn't you call to the prison to see him," said Margaret, in the course of one of these conversations, and learn from him where his wife is? Of course he knows."   98        DISAPPOINTMENTS. "Oh! how glad I am you thought of that," cried Lizzy, delighted at the idea of finding Steve and his mother; "that's the very thing I ought to do." The next d&y Lizzy went to the prison, impatient to receive tidings of her friend, and angry with herself for not having thought of such a feasible plan before. But alas for human hopes! she was doomed to a cruel disappoint- ment: as she was not a relative of the prisoner, she would not be permitted to see or converse with him, and so she was obliged to relinquish the pleasing hope of finding Mrs. Grey. "I wouldn't give up so easily," said Margaret, when she had heard all; "I would wait about the prison during the nours set apart for the prisoners' friends to visit them, and you'd be sure to see Mrs. Grey." Lizzy caught eagerly at the suggestion, and for three days consecutively she waited at the prison doors, from twelve o'clock till three. But no Mrs. Grey appeared, and the third day she returned utterly discouraged. "Tell me, Liz-do you ever feel discontented?" said Margaret, laying down her work and looking scrutinizingly into her face. "I'm afraid I do very often, Margaret, when I let my thoughts stray to the past or the future." "'We look before and after, . And pine for what is not,'   ERNEST' GREY.         9  said Margaret, quietly -"H ow :very -true. It is not in human nature to be contented. We were' never made to be contented on this earth. The most perfect Christian longs for the future, and sighs over the past. Do you think you ought to be contented?" "I don't understand you, Margaret. Do you mean, ought I to be contented with my lot,-or ought I to be contented with myself, and I so imperfect?" "Pshaw  I mean nothing of the kind-you are quite perfect enough for me. But do you think you ought to be contented with your lot-?" The puzzled expression on Lizzy's face was gone in a moment, and she answered in all sincerity-. "Why, of course I ought." "Ah, Liz, Liz," said Margaret, shaking her head; "if I were like you I might be happier, but that can never be. I cannot take things as they are, without asking the why and the wherefore--two questions that might sober Demo- critus himself: Do you think Providence ever intended you to sit and sew eighteen hours out of the twenty-four?" "Certainly, or I would not have it to do." "What I Liz-you believe that you were born to stitch so many yards, make so many button holes, run so many shirt'bosoms, and for no higher purpose?" "Oh  Margaret, no-I did not say so," said Lizzy, quickly--"I know that all of us, no matter what our occu-   100      OUGHT TO BE CONTENT. pation here, have to look beyond this earth-that is but the passage way." "Yes ; and how many go through it without one thought of where it leads to, only intent on picking up the worthless pebbles scattered along the route. But to return-what were you thinking about when I spoke first? Own up, Liz." "You will think little of me," she replied; "I was thinking I might get these collars done to-night if I worked steady,-and that would be so much on my book." "You groveling Liz I I knew it ;-and still you cry we ought to be content with a state of things which forces us to make gain our first consideration. Now, you have lived in the country-you know what we poor girls are deprived of that live up in attics, or down in basements, or behind-back in rear houses, 'curtained from the sight of the gross world.' How can you, even in thought, make Provi- dence responsible for all this wrong I Don't look aghast, Liz. You can't deny it-' ought to be content' means that, or it means nothing. If it is not the work or the will of Providence, why ought I to be contented with it?" "Margaret, you talk so wild,', said Lizzy, in a tone of gentle reproach; "it was but this morning I heard you say, 'whatever is, is right.'" "Oh that abused, misused quotation H-have I, too, sinned against it?" exclaimed Margaret, between jest and   ERNEST GREY.        101 earnest. "But, Liz, it is treacherous and ungenerous to turn my own weapons against me." "Margaret," said Lizzy, suddenly, "I'm afraid you are a hypocrite." "I?" said Margaret, reddening. "What is hypocrisy?" asked Liz. "Appearing in a false character." "Then you are a sad hypocrite, beyond a doubt. You have such an ambition to appear worse than you are, and I think that is the worst kind of hypocrisy, dear Margaret, for it looks as if you were ashamed of being good. You mustn't take offence at what I've been saying :--I wouldn't have said it, only I know you are not easily miffed." "And if I were easily miffed," said Margaret, " and if I packed up my things and left, would you not say ' whatever is, is right?"' "You know I would not., "Then what becomes of your 'ought to be content' Liz?" "I'm afraid, Margaret, I'd orget all about it then. Hush! I think my mother is awake." No ; she's sleeping soundly." "How I wish she had a soft bed-she lays so constantly that I wouldn't wonder if the slats cut her sides. Ah I Margaret, when I look at this miserable place, and think of her and of what money would do "   102      OUGHT TO BE COONTENT. She -stopped abruptly, a large round tear fell upon the linen, but in a few moments she continued with forced cheerfulness- "I know it is sinful to be repining, when the worst is so much better than we deserve ; and when we 'see how many are worse off than we are, we ought to be contented.' "That argument always strikes me as the most selfish that could be given,"^ said, Margaret, warmly; "I hate to hear it : it is the very essence of selfishness. As if I said ' thank God 1 if I am poor -others are poorer. If I am sick --others are dying.' If 'there were a common brotherhood among us, that would be only an aggravation of our suf- fering. Does it comfort me, Liz, to think,-, while I sit wearing my eyes out here in this garret, that there are thousands of young girls in this city no better off than H- thousands who for weeks never see the sun rise, though up before him-thousands whose only thought of the moon- light and starlight, is that they are not bright enough to: work by-who know nothing of the seasons but by the change in the weather, and who cannot take time to look at that patch of blue above their loophole of- a window, even if the stateliest cloud was-sailing by. . Does that com- -fort me any? Does it prove that I ought to be contented with a state of things that God never ordained, never -sanc- tioned, and barely endures? -No, Liz; -when JI :want to, school my heart to bear, it- is not the Hall of Ejblis, but   - ER NEST .GREYv.-      103 the Happy Valley I look upon, and I think if the world is a desert to me, it is an oasis to others-if I am favored but once a year with a broken 'hint that nature lives,' tens of thousands hear it, in her own sweet voice, or read it in her glowing face." "How selfish you must think me, Margaret," said Lizzy, with an appealing look and deprecating tone that no one could resist, her soft- blue eyes swimming, in tears--" how very selfish. And, indeed, I think I must bhe for yester- day, when the sun shone for a moment into the window, I thought of the country, until I fancied I heard the rustling of the corn, and got the scent of the apple-blossoms ; and, oh Margaret I when I recollected where I was, I felt so bad, .until I looked at you sewing so steady,-and at mother laying so still." "And that contented you, Liz." "It made me more contented and more discontented at the same time . You understand me." "Yes, I think I do," -replied Margaret; and both re- lapsed into silence. It was a clear, frosty day, -the air cold and bracing, and the merry jingle of -the sleigh-bells- was distinctly audible. Perhaps they heard it-perhaps they did not; but they sewed on thee same. The din and tumult ascended, melO lowed into a murmur ; the full, rich tones of military music, sinking and swelling like the waves of ocean, swept past, a   104i     OUGHT TO BE CONTENT. perfect spring-tide of harmony; but they heeded it not- stitch followed stitch, though the tips of those restless fingers were blue with the cold, until the needles dropped from their powerless grasp. Outside, what a busy world it was-and gay as it was busy. Men sublimely indifferent to Eternity, but frantic at the loss of one moment of Time, stood watching their oppor- tunity to pass the crowded thoroughfares; others skilled in street tactics darted across in face of every obstacle, and gained the curb-stone with an exulting bound, or worked their way through .jumbering carts and stranded omnibus, and passed the Rubicon by a circuitous route. Ladies, in rich dresses and costly furs, passed and repassed, or flut- tered around-some tempting store, like moths around a candle, gay equipages dashed along the crowded streets; sleighs of exquisite symmetry, shaped like sea-shells, in whose depths Amphitrite might have reclined, glided by, silent as a dream, but for the tinkling of the tell-tale bells. Crowds of men hurried from place to place, as if moved by some irresistible impulse, or actuated by a common purpose; and others, whose uselessness was their passport to distinc- tion, sauntered up and down. Virtuous Poverty slunk behind backs, well-bred Vice stalked boldly forth, chal- lenging observation, and the world, with all-its complicated machinery, moved on. "How lonely the house seems without Steve," said 'Lizzy,   ERNEST GREY.          105 breaking the long silence. "Pool little fellow- I, would give a dollar, if I had it, to know where he and his mother are now. How you would have loved that woman, Mar- garet."     . "I feel sure of that. How long is it since she left this?"  "Five weeks--immediately after her husband was ac- cused. Her hard-hearted landlord had an officer to put her out, and therewas no one to' offer hera shelter. Oh if I had been at home I or if mother had been able to think or act. She called two days after, and told mother where she lived, but she forgot the name of the street, and could only remember that it was number seventeen."  "Strange she never called again," said Margaret; "and Steve so much attached to you.. Perhaps she is ill." "God forbid!" exclaimed Lizzy, fervently. "What would become of her, and no one to mind her? You don't think so, Margaret?" "Indeed, I fear it. She would certainly have called again, if possible, for she could not suspect you of unkind- ness, and she knew your mother's condition too well to expect her to remember anything correctly. I think she must be ill." -Lizzy Roberts hid her face in her hands, but the low smothered sob would be heard, and told what the clasped hands endeavored to hide,    t10      OUGHT, TO -BER- CO ENT. "Oh I Margaret^: She exclaimed, looking up, and dash- ing the tears away "what a horrible thing it: is to be poor. Poverty must be wrong some way, for it makes one selfish. My first thought was to find out Mrs. Grey, and if she was sick to sit up withiher, and mind her night and day ; but then my work, my work-how is it to be done?' "Aye, Liz-one glance at .these yards of ghastly white, paralyzes many a generous feeling."  "Yes, that it does," said Lizzy. "I have wept more tears in one day for the change poverty has made in my temper- and disposition, than for everything else put to- gether." "You and I, Liz, are not very old," said Margaret,. sud-' denly, "nor very .old-fashioned. Can yon tell me, then, why we are tempted -in the old style?" "What do you mean, Margaret?" said Lizzy, aston- ished  .  "I have read somewhere," she replied, "that-- . ' The devil now is wiser than of yore, He tempts by maling rich, not'mmak;ng poor.' But, like every other new fashion, it takes some time before it -descends to the poor. Dear me I dear me I how I would like to be tempted in that way. Temptations every day, in the shape of golden dollars-eh, Liz. Then you ecould hunt up Mrs. Grey and Steve, in place of hunting up. work."   ERNEST CREY.         107 "And that reminds me," said Liz, rising, "of my ap pointment with Miss Mason--'tis time to go." "Wasn't she in Sharpe's? "Yes, and always treated me kindly.. She wanted me then to go -out and sew, but I couldn't leave mother by herself. What did she say to you, Margaret?" "She didn't say what she wanted,' but I am sure, from her manner, that it will be something to your advantage. Probably to go out to sew, which you can readily, for I will attend to your mother. Come here," she said, as Lizzy was going out, " your- hat is all jammed--let me fix it." "You are better, than a looking-glass, Margaret." "I know it. Now hurry back, for I -amall impatience to hear the news. I have a great mind," she said, follow- ing Lizzy to the entry, " to throw my old slipper after you for luck." "Yes, do," said Lizzy, laughing; and the old slipper came clattering down the stairs .   CHAPTER    XII. ACQUITTAL OF ERNEST GREY--INTERVIEW WITH LIZZY ROBERTS -SEARCH FOI HS WIFE AND CHLD. AFTER remaining in 'prison two or three weeks, Ernest Grey was brought to trial and acquitted, the evidence being insufficient to convict. He was free once more, and mixing with the crowd,- but he felt that the brand was on his brow, that he was looked upon as a moral leper, that he was known to the police, as a suspicious person, that those who knew him would shun him, that his chances of earning -an honest livelihood were lessened, if not utterly dlestroyed. This he knew, but all appeared insignificant and worth- less, in comparison with the fate of his wife and child. Where- was Jane? What kept her away for the last three days? What could keep her away, at such a time, from him? Was Steve alive or dead'? 'AS these thoughts flashed across his mind, he quickened his pace to a run, and dashed through the streets, unconscious of the atten-   ERNEST GREY.         109 tion he excited. He Soon reached the miserable dwelling which he last called home, forgetting, in the one absorbing idea, all that had occurred since he left it. With a bound he was up the stairs--r-eagerly and'tremblingly he turned the handle of the door-it was locked I He looked through the key-hole-no familiar form met his eye. He listened- no sound of life reached his ears. All was still as the- grave. He shivered from head to foot, and clung to the balusters for support: the vague fear that had haunted him for the last few days now assumed a tdefinite -shape. His wife was dead, or his child-perhaps both. As if petrified, he stood immovable, his dry eyes glitter- ing, and his face ghastly pale. Then a flood of softer memories rolled over his soul, and as he thought of his prattling boy, and, the uncomplaining, womanly fortitude of his gentle wife, his eye grew moist, and his lip quivered with emotion. What had become of them? Where had they died-and how? A blast of wind swept through the empty room, sound- ing like a wail, and the floor creaked as if some one passed over it. Dropping on his kness,- he gazed again through the key-hole: in vain; he could see the long pendant cobwebs wave to and fro-he could see the rays of the wintry sun upon the floor-he could see -the broken shutters swing lazily back and'- forth-but that was all. No living thing- could be seen in that deserted room.   "O  INTERVIEKW WfrTH LIZZY. ROBERTS. "Jane I Jane!" he cried, inthe wild hope-of getting an answer,--" open the door--it's only me. Steve:! why, it is your father,boy." -No answer, save the sigh of the wind. Rising slowly, and suppressing every sign of emotion by a violent effort, he ascended to the attic room occupied by Lizzy Roberts and Her mother.  Lizzy was at her usual employment, and looked paler and thinner than ever. She had suffered a great deal since the morning she procured work for Mrs. Grey. The dozen collars had been lost in the confusion, and in consequence Lizzy Roberts was not only discharged, but the price of them deducted from the little due to her. -She got work next day in another store, but as she went to seek for it, and not in answer to an advertisement, she was obliged to do it for less than the usual price, and even then it was given as a kind of compliment. To make up for this-reduc- tion was impossible; she could not work more incessantly than she had done, and she could not work so quickly, for her situation became every day more hopeless, and she was growing listless and discouraged. Grey entered without knocking, and coming close to the astonished girl, asked her where was Jane. "Oh, Mr. Grey --how glad I am to see you," she said, joyfully, springing from her seat and clasping both his hands in her's.   N EBulSl G'E :--       1- 1 "Where are they, Lizzy? my wife and child," he said, impatiently. "Oh, how I wish I knew. But when I was-to the store with work, Short put the things on the sidewalk, and Jane and Steve went away and never came back,"  "And you never tried to make them    out l" he. exclaimed,- bitterly. "Oh, no I you wouldn't be seen with the wife of a common thief. And yet you were friends 1" "Indeed, I did, often and often try, but not, so nFuch as I would like to, for I should do my work." "Yes I yes I I know--work or die-that's the way with the poor. Let them talk as they will, and preach as they will, about poverty--I tell you, Lizzy Roberts, it is both a curse and a crime. Did not poverty make a thief of me in the eyes of the world? If I was a rich man, who would dare to suspect me?" "Oh, do not call:yourself a thief." "Why not? Have I not been suspected as a thief, tried as a thief, imprisoned as a thief-everything but con victed as a thief, and acquitted, not because they thought me innocent, but because they could not prove me guilty. Did I not read it in their eyes--Judge, jury, spectators- not a man there, 'but would be willing to stake his salvation on my guilt. But they were conscientious men, and upright jurors--they went only by the evidence, and so they flung   12:   INTERVIEW -Wi'rti ALIZZY- ROBERT,  me on the world an uncoivicted felon. Curse them-.may they  " "Stop, Mr.' Grey-do not curse them--they did but their duty." "Their duty 1" he repeated, scornfully. "Listen to me -not one of the twelve men who acquitted me---not'the judge who discharged me, and let me loose upon' the com- munity, would trust me to-morrow-would give me the meanest employment-would suffer me inside their doors. No, not if I brought their own very verdict as a recom- mendation,-and, by Heaven, Ill do it. They cannot call me thief.' He was dreadfully excited, and paced up and down the room with a rapid, heavy tread, that shook the crazy timbers of the floor, and awakened the old woman from an unrefreshing slumber. To Lizzy's enquiry if she wanted a drink, she replied, in a rambling way, that the less she wanted the better--that no one cared about her now-and that it was well Lizzy could afford to be idling. "Sorrow makes us selfish," he said, abruptly ;- I never thought of your mother, nor your work. But one word more-how did Jane bear the disgrace?" "Do not say digrace," pleaded Lizzy; "there can be no disgrace where there is no crime.".- An expression of almost sublime joy irradiated Ernest   ERNEST GREY.         113 Grey's sallow features for an instant, and he said, in a voice that he vainly endeavored to make firm-- "You did not believe me guilty?"    '  "Not for'a moment." "I thank you-from my soul I thank you, Lizzy Roberts. I feel like a human being again. God bless you. If I find them you shall see me soon." Brushing his hand across his eyes to remove all traces of emotion, he was gone, ere she had time to question him about his plans and prospects. Once again in the inhospitable streets, Ernest Grey. heeded not the threatening sky above, nor the-frozen earth below. Shunning the crowded business streets, he turned into the narrow alleys and gloomy lanes sacred to the poor. He descended into miserable, unhealthy basements; he clambered up to mouldering fetid garrets, and groped his way through wretched, sunless rear-houses. Through all the comfortless abodes-through all the dreary haunts where poverty and misery, driven by dire necessity, are compelled to herd with vice--through that tainted, moral atmosphere where innocence dies, and youth is corrupted- a fountain poisoned at its source-he passed, without find- ing the objects of his search. He feared not for Jane, for well he knew that Virtue is a hardy plant, and can derive strength and sustenance from food that innocence could not touch and live. But as he thought of Steve, flung by   "4   SEARCH FOR HS WIlFI  AND CHLD. untoward circumstances face to face with Vice, .forced to gaze on its odious, repulsive features until familiarity ren- dered them endurable, and then He was faint with hunger and fatigue, but this train of thought gave him strength, and he hastened on. The night was falling, and the cold wind, cutting as a sword, swept through the dilapidated streets-doors creaked, and shutters flapped-shivering children, without one spark of childish playfulness, passed from house to house, and groups of abandoned women, and moody, reckless men, were gath- ered at door-stoops or on the corners. Here were the shadows of New York life-this was the back-ground of that gorgeous picture. Furtively Ernest Grey glanced at each child he passed, but none were like his Steve, and a sigh of relief spoke his thankfulness more eloquently than words. For hours he continued lMis search, elbowing his way through every crowd, pausing near excited groups to catch the subject of their discourse, or asking little children if they knew any boy called Steve. At last, exhausted nature yielded, and seeking shelter in an open door-way, he slept for hours. The next day he renewed the search, and the next, with like result, and the evening of the third day found him utterly hopeless and nerveless. With eyes cast down, he moved .listlessly forward-in what direction he knew not-   ERNEST GREY.         " so preoccupied, that he was among a crowd of women- and children ere he was aware. "Poor little fellow!" said one woman, compassionately, ' his mother is very sick, and he has no father." "Yes I have," said the child, quickly; "but I can't find him." Ernest Grey started as if electrified. There was- no mistaking that childish voice; and in the next moment Stephen was pressed to his father's heart, with an energy that confused and frightened him. ,   CHAPTER XIII. THE WASHERWOMAN-A FRIEND IN NEED--OPES AND -  FEARS. THE morning that Mrs. Grey's miserable substitute for furniture was placed in the street by order of the landlord, Mrs. Fitzgerald, an old acquaintance, hearing of her trouble, came to see her. She was a poor washerwoman--very poor, but kind withal; and she proposed that Jane should give up the room she occupied, and live with her. This would save the expense of rent and fuel, and if Jane felt able to assist her in washing, she was to have her share of the money thus earned. Never was kindness better timed, and never was grati- tude more heartfelt. The offer was accepted in the same spirit in which it was made, and' taking Stephen with her, she set out with Mrs. Fitzgerald for her humble abode, intending to leave him there and return for her furni- ture. But when she did returnm the room was empty, and on applying to Short, she was abused for her impudence in looking for her worthless rubbish, while-she was in arrears   ERNEST GREY.         117 for rent. knowing -hat it was useless to reason or plead with him, she turned away in silence, thankful that all were not equally hard-hearted. Lizzy Roberts was at the store with work, and Mrs. Grey was too anxious to await her return ; so leaving word for her, she hastened to her new home, determined to make up for want of strength and practice by untiring industry. Who can tell the kindness of the poor to the poor? What pen can do justice to their ready sympathy? Re- member that charity in them is -not simply- kind-it is heroic. What they give is not out of their abundance, but emphatically out of their own mouths.  Luxuries they know not--superfluities they never had; but what they cannot relieve they- can feel for-when they cannot succor, they can sympathize. Nothing could exceed the kindness of Mrs. Fitzgerald to her afflicted friend. With the delicacy of true feeling she made it appear that lMrs. Grey's assistance was invaluable to her, and that but for it she could not retain her best customers. At every opportunity, when Jane was attend- ing to her child, or visiting her husband, the simple, kind- hearted washerwoman was working away at her laborious occupation. It-was a pleasant thing to see her homely face, bright with the consciousness of doing a kind action, glowing through the misty, reeking atmosphere of steaming   "8       HOPES AND+ FEBARS.- soap-suds that enveloped her. And still more pleasant was it when Jane returned to listen to her transparent attempts to deceive, and her boasting -wonder at the amount of work she had got through during her absence. As the day of trial approached, Jane's restlessness be- came more uncontrollable. She could not sleep by -night or day; she could not work, yet idleness was irksome to her; she could not rest, yet motion brought no relief. "When deep sleep falleth upon men," her thoughts, like wandering ghosts, were flitting round that dreary pile, whose sepulchral name -tells eloquently of buried hopes and ruined reputations. .Often during the night had she heard the judge's charge, or listened in breathless eagerness to catch the verdict of the jury ; but ever as she listened, the sound died away, and-with a start she awoke from her momentary slumber. Sometimes the officials and legal functionaries were hidden from view; but the prisoner at the bar stood out in bold relief, and in the .back-ground was a mass of spectators, gazing at him as they would at some fierce animal on exhibition. She felt that in that crowd of fellow- creatures there was no sympathy for him, and shuddering, she turned to read her fate in the features of the prisoner. One look was enough-the concentrated, intense attention -the head bent forward, as if to catch the faintest sound -the short, quick breathing that alone denoted the inward fluttering of the spirit, vanished as she gazed-a mortal   ERNEST GREY.         119 pallor overspread cheek, brow and lip-he shivered as if the icy hand of death had touched him, and from the deep- ening gloom that shrouded the court a shadowy hand pro- jected, on which was traced the fatal word, "Guilty." Such slumbers could not be refreshing, and day by day Jane looked more wretched and ghastly. Yet during the short visits she was allowed to make to her husband, she did her utmost to appear cheerful, in order to" calm the anguish of his mind, and for the same purpose she concealed from him the conduct of Short and her change of abode. If the trial ended favorably, he would be better able to bear it,--if unfavorably, then he would be spared another pang. So she reasoned. ,          '   CHAPTER XIV. MORE TRIALS AND TROUBLES-THE SEPARATION. WHEN Mrs. Grey returned from her last visit to the Tombs, she found her friend busily engaged in packing up her clothes, and trying, at the same time, to cheer Steve, who was crying bitterly. "Why, what's the matter?" said Jane ; "has anything happened while I was away? What are you crying for, Steve?"  "She's going away," he sobbed, less in sorrow than in anger, " and she ought to be ashamed." "Hush I! Steve, hush!" said the mother, as if anxious only to suppress this exhibition of feeling in her child. Poor Mrs. Grey I what sad news it was to her. Her voice faltered-she could only repeat-"Going away?" "Yes, but not for long," said Mrs. Fitzgerald--"only for a week or ten days. One of the Prices is bad with the fever, and as I ain't afeer'd of it, they want me to mind her. You know they have been very kind to me--so I couldn't refuse them. I'm rale sorry about it, for you and   ERNEST GREY.         121 Steve will be so lonesome here by yourselves, and the worst is that I can't come and see you, for fear I'd bring the infection. And the trial will come on in a few days, and you'll be fretting yourself to death-I know you will, and you'll have nobody to be with you. I'm sure I don't know what to do. I have a great mind to hunt up Lizzy Ro- berts before I go, and bring her over here. Wouldn't you like to see her?" "Like I yes, that I would,-but-I won't send for her."                 \ 'Yes, do!" exclaimed Steve--' do send for Lizzy. You bring her, Mrs. Fitzgerald-won't you? and 'll not cry any more. I want to see my Lizzy Roberts,--and you must bring her." "Do you think she wouldn't come?" inquired Mrs. Fitz- gerald. "I know she would, on the moment, and she would hatve been here long ago, had she been told where I was; but, poor thing, she works so hard for a trifle that I couldn't bear to take a minute of her time. Then she has her poor sick mother to attend to. Oh, I couldn't think of her wasting a minute with me." "I'll go and tell her where you, live, any way. Maybe she passes the house every day with her work, and if she only dropped inl for a momlent, wouldn't it be a comfort for you to see her? I'll run this very minute, before I do   122        THE SEPARATION. another thing.' And flinging aside her clothes, she pre- pared to set out. "Finish what you are doing," said Jane, " and I will call to Lizzy to-morrow. I think it would be better." "Very well, just as you like; but will you be sure to call to-morrow-you promise?" "Yes, I promise ; and now let me help you to get ready. Afterwards you can tell me what I'm to do while you are away." "Call for the clothes on Monday, the same as ever, and don't say a word about me. Bishop's, and Wright's and Henry's, will be as much as you can do. I'll settle about the other places." "Where are the shirts and fine things to be left?" "Bless you, I left them home while you were away, and got this"--putting two dollars into Jane's hand. "That's all your own earning." "I can't take it, Mrs. Fitzgerald-indeed, I can't," said Jane, earnestly. "I did'nt earn one half of it." "I know better," was the positive answer. "There is a; dozen of shirts to be left in Barclay street," she continued, in a hurried tone, as if anxious to get away from the sub- ject. "Two of them are not ironed yet,-and these five dresses belong to Mrs. Smith. You'll be paid in both placs ; and mind, you make yourself comfortable. Don't lay out any money for soap, or starch, or coal, or anything   ERNEST GREY.         123 for the washing. I spoke to the grocery man at the corner, and you can get them on credit. Now you are crying-and-and--I'll be back with a pocket-full of money." "Will you?" said Steve, joyfully, clapping his hands. "Then you must buy a coat for my father, and shoes too, and a cloak for mother, and something for Lizzy Roberts- won't you? A whole pocket-full of money I Oh! won't I get a ball, and a top, and a kite i" he exclaimed, with childish glee, prancing about his mother, all his little sor- rows forgotten in that moment. After arranging with thoughtful kindness for the comfort of Jane and her child, the poor washerwoman, with a mind divided between pleasure for the prospective profit, and pain for those she was leaving, set out to undertake her new duties. Never did Jane feel so lonely as that evening -the room looked more dreary and desolate than it was wont to do-the moaning east wind sighed through the broken window-panes and crazy door, and the dim light of the solitary lamp made it still more dreary and desolate. For many an hour after Steve fell asleep, she sat buried in thought, her head resting on her hands, and the silent tears falling unheeded; and when, at-length, worn out with grief, she sought repose, her dreams were but the exaggerated images of her waking thoughts, and she arose, wearied and unrefreshed. \   124        THE SEPARATION. There was a great deal of work to be done, and the necessity for exertion giving strenoth, as it generally does, she set about it, intending to leave the shirts home before making her daily visit to the prison. The snowy, crumpled linen, by the joint agency of moisture and heat, became, under her hands, stiff, smooth and glossy, and the loose morning-dresses rustled like silk. It is no trifling thing to fold a shirt in proper style, -to reveal all that should be revealed, and not one particle more-to display the entire length of the bosom, from the collar to its junction with the less filmy, but more substantial fabric of which the main body is composed-not to take one iota off the ample expanse of plaits that extend on each side of the central band,-sometimes divided equally with rigorous imparti- ality,--and sometimes a crowd of little ones hemmed ill- between Lilliputian giants, real tritons among minnows. Without bestowing a passing thought upon them, Mrs. Grey folded and placed them in the basket, and telling Steve not to go out, and giving him a thousand cautions about the fire, hurried off. She was disappointed in both places, for under some frivolous pretext or other, no. money - was forthcoming., She did not mind it much, however, for the two dollars Mrs. Fitzgerald left were a mine of wealth to her. t   CHAPTER XV. THE FROZEN STEPS--AN ACCIDENT--THE CHLD'S RESOLVE. As Mrs. Grey passed the City Hall, she was startled to find that the time appointed to see the prisoners had almost expired, and being compelled to postpone her visit to the following day, she proceeded towards her home, as fast as the slippery state of the pavements would permit. Encqm- bered by her large clothes-basket, she was more than once on the point of falling, to the undisguised delight of several young urchins, who had leagued with the frost to render the streets impassible. Steve, in the meantime, sat watch- ing the boys from the basement window, with the greatest interest, as they followed each other, in quick succession, on the glassied slide. On they went, "regular as rolling water," their arms extended on either side as a balancing power, and their breath sfeaming in the frosty air. But nothing delighted him so much as to see the boys, who were dissatisfied with the scanty supply nature had pro- vided for their accommodation. turn round and supply the   126   THE FROZEN STEPS-AN ACCIDENT. deficiency by deluging the side-path with water, which the keen and biting air quickly transmuted into ice. "Say, .boys!" shouted Steve, putting his mouth to a broken pane, -"say-make ice on my steps-won't you?" Was there ever a child that did not emphasize the posses- sive pronouns? The word was enough--the next moment a pail-fall of water was trickling down the steps, and with marvelous rapidity a transparent coating was formed over the rugged stone. Catharine of Russia never took more pride in her Palace of Ice--" that most magnificent and mighty freak,"--than Stephen Grey took in the pellucid fretwork that fringed the edge of each step. The fresh, untired imagination of the child saw wonders and beauty in it that mature age would smile to hear of, and no idea of evanescence intruded to mar the pleasure he enjoyed. Thi creaking of the rusty gate on itshinges attracted his attention, and seeing his mother, he endeavored to make her understand what had occurred-not that he had any idea of warning her against danger-no ; he merely wished her to admire what he admired. Pleased at seeing him pleased, but too hurried to attend to what he was saying, Mrs. Grey attempted to descend the steep ladder-like stairs without any precaution ; but scarcelylhad she touched the treacherous floting, when she was precipitated, to the bottom, the basket hampering her, and taking away every   ERNEST GREY.         127 chance she otherwise would have had to save herself from falling. Steve ran, screaming, to the door, and strove with despe- rate energy to lift her up. Poor boy!-he might a's well lhave attempted to move a mountain "Don't cry, Steve," said Mrs. Grey, faintly--(" don't cry. I'll be better by-and-bye." She endeavored to rise, but the extreme pain produced by the exertion overpowered her, and she sank back sense- less. When she awoke to consciousness, the frightened child was kneeling beside her, crying bitterly, and exclaim- ing over and over again--" it's by-and-bye now, mother- it's by-and-bye now, so it is." The child's continued cries having been overheard, some poor women-her fellow-lodgers-came to her assistance. They carried her in, and obtained medical aid for her, when it was discovered that she had dislocated her ancle, and fractlred her leg below the knee. Nothing could exceed Jane's grief when she heard the extent of her misfortune- the impossibility of going to the prison, and the agonypf suspense her husband would endure in consequence, isOrer first thought. This was the greatest aggravation of her suffering. Oh I how she longed for one glipse of Lizzy Roberts' sweet, patient face--she felt that it would do her more good than all the medicine in Newxork, for it would ease her mind. She would have no hesitation in asking her   128        AN ACCIDENT. to go to the prison and tell her husband what had occurred: she knew that she would break it to him gently. What, too, would she not give for the cordial kindness of Mrs. Fitzgerald! how inestimable it would be at such a time! If either were with her -she would be contented, for Steve ,would then be taken care of, and all that kindness could do would be done for her. Still she felt some hesitation inl appealing to them, and resolved to wait till the next day, in hopes that ,she might feel better. The next day, however, as might be expected, she was much worse-in high fever, and utterly unable to communi- cate her wishes intelligibly. The poor women who lived in the same house,. watched by her sick bed by turns, or attended to Steve; and though they had but little to give, and that little of the coarsest kind, yet it- was given un- grudgingly, and with cheerful alacrity. More than one tried to entice Steve away, for their women's hearts over- flowed with pity for the youthful mourner; but he would not leave the room. He spent hours crouching at theeback of the bed, eating what was brought to him, without remark, but never asking for food. On the third day the fever began to abate, but anxiety of mind, and the want of proper nourishment, retarded her recovery, and days passed without producing any percepti- ble improvement. No one could give her tidings of her husband-no one   ERNEST GREY.          129 knew anything about the trial, or its result. They took no interest in trials, except the supposed criminal was known to them, and they now, for the first time, learned that tfieir new neighbor had a husband living. Unable to endure the suspense, she sent for Lizzy Ro- berts, but she had removed, and the neighbors could not tell where. Then she sent for Mrs. Fitzgerald, but here again a. disappointment awaited her, for the people of the house flatly refused to deliver the message, lest it might distract the attention of the nurse from her sick charge. "Oh, Steve! my darling child, what will become of you?"' said the afflicted mother-" alone in the world, without friends. I know not. It, distracts me to think of it, and yet I can think of nothing else." Without understanding the depth of his mother's grief, poor Steve, child-like, cried for sympathy. "If I could but -see your father l" she exclaimed, with startling earnestness, raising herself in the bed, and looking at the wondering child with an expression that made the tears run faster down his cheeks--"If I could but see your father, I would die happy." "I'll go and look for him," said Steve. His mother smiled sadly, and shook her head at his childish folly; but Steve meant what he said, and slipping out unobserved, he roamed through the streets in search of his father. He soon got bewildered, and lost his way.   130      THE CHLD S RESOLVE. The night fell, and the terrified. child, thoroughly alarmed, begged of some women to take him home to his mother, as she was very sick. "What a pretty boy " sad one woman-" where do you live, sonny?" "Down there,"-said Steve, ointing in the very opposite direction to his home. "No, he don't," said another. "I know where. Poor little fellow- his mother is very sick, and he has no father." At this juncture Ernest Grey passed, and hearing the well-known voice, forced his way through the crowd and found his child, as described in the last chapter.   CHkAPTER XVI. GREYiS RETURN TO HS HOME-MEETING OF HUSBAND AND WIFE-THE MENDICANT. WHEN Jane first observed her child's absence,'she was greatly alarmed lest he might have gone to seek his father, and so lost his way, and as hour after hour passed without his returning, her alarm increased. The dim twilight fell like a pall upon that dismal basement, and she strained her eyes in the vain endeavor to penetrate the gloom, but he came not. The twilight gave way to night, and she list- ened-oh I with what intensity, for his footfall, but the only sounds she heard were the beating of her own heart and her quick, irregular breathing. She tried to rise, bul that was an impossibility, and there she lay for hours ii feverish anxiety, her physical sufferings forgotton and unfellt in her all-absorbing mental agony. Suddenly she starts, a strange, wild expression- lights up her face, and every sense seems to be merged in that of'hearing. A man's step eager and hurried, approaches the house,--stops-de scends the stairs-the door ismflung open, and the nexi   132    MEETING OF HUSBAND AND WIFE. ' moment, Stephen, escaping from his father's arms, is beside her. "Thank Heaven!" exclaimed Jane, fervently, as she pressed him to her heart, and almost smothered him with kisses ; "thank Heaven my boy is safe." "And father, too," said the child. "Your father! where is your father?" asked Jane, wildly. "Oh, Ernest! Ernest l" she continued, without waiting for an answer, "if you are in the room  come to me."  Scarcely were the words uttered, when she felt her hus- band's arms around her, his lips pressed to her's, and the hot scalding tears falling like rain upon her face. It was some moments before either spoke-their emotions were too deep for words. Jane was the first to regain com- posure. "Answer one question," she said--"the verdict-what was it?" "Not guilty.2" "Thank God!" was her heartfelt exclamation. "Now, Ernest, strike a light-I want to see you." The lamp was lighted, and one less accustomed than Ernest Grey to scenes of destitution, might have shuddered at its revealings. Everything spoke of the most abject poverty-the mouldy walls, the bare floor and the empty stove-the very aspect of the room was dreary, and an   ERNEST GREY.         133 appalling sense of desolation haunted it like a ghost.' But Ernest Grey was too familiar with misery to mind these sletails-he knew it without waiting to scan its every fena ture--in the agony of that moment he thought only of his Knife. As the light fell upon her face, he felt a sensation of relief, for there was a flush on the cheek and a brightness in the eye, that looked like returning health. Jane's scru- tiny was not so satisfactory, for after one glance she sighed heavily, and turned her eyes full of mournful meaning upon Steve. Did she look' forward to the time when, deprived of father and mother, he would have to struggle through the world-alone? Alas for human foresight Heven so. "We would be ungrateful to repine at anything, when your character is clear," sihe said, after hearing from her husband the details of his trial and acquittal. "I will try and get well, and in a  little time we will be happy and comfortable. I   feel as if everything could be borne now. Poverty is nothing-disgrace is the only thing to be dreaded." All this time, Steve, elated with his success, stood by the bed, but when Grey told of his wanderings in search of,and his meeting with him, when hope had vanished, his exultation burst all bounds, and it would be hard to say whether he laughed or cried the most.       a "I 'telled you I  would find him," he repeated over and over again-"   and I did-didn't I, mother?"   134    MEETING OF HUSBAND AND WIfPS. "Yes, you did, my boy," said his father, lifting him on his knee, "and now go to sleep, Steve-you are tired walking." "I ain't tiredone bit," replied Steve, manfully, but the little head had not rested many minutes on his father's shoulder, when sleep overcame him. For a few moments he slept soundly, and then awakin with a scream, he caught hold of his father3l arm, and begged him not to go away again. "He is not going away, my darling I What could have put that into his head?" said the mother, anxiously. "Come, Steve-be a man," said the father, appealing to his boyish pride, " and don't cry--I am'not going away any more." ", You're sure?' "Yes, very sure. There, now go to sleep." Steve was the only one in that miserable abode who-did sleep that night. The husband and wife talked over the past, and arranged their plans for the future--Jane endeav- oring to make herself believe that all would now go well, and Grey dreading what the morrow would bring forth. The two following days he spent seeking for work, but procured none--no one would employ him. Some con- sidered it audacious in him to ask for work, and expressed it pretty plainly in their manners. Others shrank from him as if dishonesty were contagious, and all " his lordly l        ERNEST GBEY.         185 fellow-worms, refused his humble petition point blank. They admitted that he might be innocent, but "good should seem good as well as be," was their motto, and they abided by it. 'Had Grey been a murderer, or a criminal of the first magnitude, philanthropists might have taken him in hand, for philanthropists and physicians are attracted by extreme cases; but, unfortunately, he was a shabby sinner, and an unconvicted one at that, and, therefore, he had no chance.  Poor fellow I he went through the ordeal bravely. True, he winced under the, open contempt and ostentatiogcs horror of mye     een that  ostentatious horror of many a dog in office ;" but when braced himself up and again tried, and was ag ain disap- pointed. At night he returned, tired and sick at heart, without means to procure nourishment for his wife, or food for his child. Steve, like all children, had an implicit belief in his father's omnipotence, and this childish faith, betrayed in every look and word, was agonizing to Grey. Though he would willingly give his life for him, he could do nothing! Nothing!-could he not beg?  Yes, even that. The man revolted at the idea, but the father shrank fromno humiliation for his child's sake. "Jane," he said, quietly, "I m USt try and get bread for Steve-he is hungry, poor child !" "I  didn't think you had any money, Ernest." "And you thought right. T  hoi. ^ ;-,    136        THEB MENDICANT. "You are not going to"-Jane stopped, and gazed earn- estly in his face-" to-ask for some?" He leaned over her, and even in the dim light his face looked flushed, but when he spoke his voice betrayed no emotion. "I am going to beg for some, Jane." Though her heart swelled to bursting, she made no attempt to dissuade him, and without a word saw himn depart; but when the door closed, and she was alone, her feelings could no longer be restrained, and she gave vent to them in a burst of grief.  With a rapid step he proceeded to Broadway, and took his station at the, corner of Franklin street. He drew his hat over his brows-kept himself carefully in the shade of the lamp-post, and scrutinized the groups that thronged past to the different places of amusement, himself an object of suspicion to many. Every variety of character was there-every phase of expression-tell-tale faces, faces that tell no tales, and faces that have no tales to tell, passed him, and with a penetration sharpened by necessity, he knew them at a glance. From some he shrank away instinctively, aid many a warm and kindly nature brushed past him before he could summon up courage to appeal to it. Ashamed of his irresolution, he determined to wait no longer, when a strong, powerful voice struck upon his ear-    ERNEST GREY.         137 "Just what I say, sir,-the poor ought to be attended to. He only wants to make capital out of them." "Nothing more, depend upon it," was the rejoinder. And two gentlemen, warmly clad and buttoned up to the chin, turned the corner of the street. Grey laid his hand on the arm of the first speaker, and- in an agitated voice muttered-"My wife and child are starving." "Work, man, work," said the gentleman, harshy; "you are worse than the prodigal in the Gospel-to work you are able--to beg you-are iot ashamed." And shaking him off, he commenced a philippic against the lazy, improv- ident poor, and lashed their vices with a whip that must have been borrowed from -the Furies. Again and again Grey applied to the passers by, but some were too hurried to attend to liim,-some had no power to help him--some intimated that he was/Arnk, and others-among them women too, shook their heads incredulously, and "didn't believe a word of it."  What narcotic invented for a troublesome conscience, ever equaled in efficacy, "I don't believe a word of. it?" None whatever. It soothes it, allays its irritation, puts it on -good terms with itself, and restores its serene self-complacency in a twinkling. Oh, wonderful is the power of incredulity. Fifteen minutes have scarcely elapsed since Ernest Grey made his first application for relief-yet in that short time his manner has become so changed, you could scarcely   138-       JrHE MENDICANT. believe that it was the same person. His agitation has vanished-reiterated repulses have made him reckless and indifferent, and his abrupt appeals sound like demands. Listen to him as he accosts that intelligent-ooking me- chanic-his voice does not falter-observe him--his eye does not seek the ground. "I want help." "You do," said the person addressed, coming to a full stop, and turning round to view the applicant-" then you ,       i must have it." Kind words are like the rod of Moses, and as Grey lis- tened, his desperate calmness vanished, and the unbidden tear glistened in his eye. "My wife and child are starving," he added, apologeti- cally, " and I can do nothing for them." "Starving I impossible!" exclaimed the sympathizing mechanic. "Starving in New York-starving in the midst of plenty-it can't be true," his emotion proving how firmly he believed what his tongue denied. "Would to God it were false!" fervently ejaculated Grey. "Come with me-see with your own eyes. I am no impostor." "I don't doubt your story. I only wish I could. Richard Kane is not the man to " "Richard Kane i" repeated Grey, interrupting him, in extreme surprise. "I might have known it was him." "Why, who are you?" said Kane, drawing the speaker   ERNEST GREY.         139 to the brilliantly-liglited window beside him, and pushing up his hat, that he might see his features distinctly., "Ernest Grey I as I live.  Your wife and child starv- ing I Hlere"-he emptied his pockets while speaking, and poured a quantity of silver and copper into his hand- "hurry and -get them food. For God's sake I' man," he added, impatiently, " make no delay." "I cannot take it-it is too much." "Grey." said the other, earnestly, "I would have given ten-aye, twenty times that sum, a few   weeks ago, to believe as I now do that you are innocent." ' "Take back' your money," said Grey, flinging it from him as if it were poison. "Sooner than touch a cent of it I would starve, and let all belonging to me starve too. If you had not known me, Richard Kane!" "Stop!-I didn't mean-I only said," stammered Kane, endeavoring to detain' him, but in vain, for Grey, shaking off his hand, fled as if his direst foe was on his track, and was soon lost in the darkness. Richard followed him for several blocks, anxious to discover his abode, but soon gave up the pursuit in despair, and retraced his steps, his mind a prey to remorse and sorrow. About half an hour aftef, Ernest entered his miserable abode with a bountiful supply of provisions. He turned a deaf ear to Jane's inquiries'as to where he had got them, and seemed saddened by his success, except when Steve's undisguised delight elicited from him an answering smile.   CHAPTER     -XVII. THE JU'DGE AND THE ACCUSED--ERNEST GREY IN THE FIFTH AVENUE-STOP THEF!--THE TOMB. THE next day, Ernest Grey, in accordance with a resolution he had previously formed, called at the judge's house. It so happened that he had advertised that morning for a man to take charge of his horses, and this circumstance becoming known to Grey at the door, he took advantage of it, to obtain admittance. He was shown into a luxuri- ously comfortable room, and there, half hidden in an easy chair, sat the judge, deep in the morning papers. "You want a man to take charge'of your horses," said Grey, addressing him. "Yes," he replied, without lifting his eyes from the paper he was reading. "I am willing to work for whatever you are willing to pay. Will that suit?" "Yes-that will do very well. Have you any recom- mendations? Stay," said he, putting aside his paper, and   ERNEST GREY.         141 scrutinizing the applicant closely,--" where have I seen you lately?" p   "In the dock, when you were on the bench," was the unhesitating reply. "Ha indeed. Well, sir, what do you want with me now?- "Work." ' Good! And do you expect me to give it to you?-to trust you? a " "Hold I sir, hold!-here is my recommendation. Read it." He took from  his pocket a carefully-folded piece of printed paper, and passed it to the judge. "What foolery is this?" he said, impatiently, opening it, however, and glancing over it: "E 1 why, this is the verdict." "Yes,-the verdict of acquittal; and on the strength of it, I ask for work. Give me work, and I'll prove the truth of that verdict." "What if I refuse?" A deeper shade passed over Grey's haggard face, and there was a touch of sadness in his voice as he replied- "Then I may verify your suspicions." "Why did you come to me?" inquired the judge, after a long pause. "What induced you to act in such an unpre- cedented manner?i   "2    THE JUDGE AND THE ACCUSED. "Because your charge to the Jury set me free.' "I charged the Jury to decide by the evidence ; but 1 expressed no opinion as to your guilt or innocence. It was not my opinion they were to go by, but by the facts; and as there was not sufficient legal proof of your guilt, I, as the Judge, gave you the benefit of the doubt-my own opinion was unfavorable throughout." "The benefit of a doubt!" exclaimed Grey, indignantly -" good God I what mockery. What benefit is it to me to be thrown on the world with my character blasted, and my name a bye-word and a reproach? Don't be merciful only on the bench, but give me, as a man, the benefit of the Judge's doubt, and I will thank you." "I gave you the benefit of that doubt at the proper time and place," said the Judge, sternly ; "and I claim the right to use it now, for my own protection. Would you have me place you on a level with a man whose integrity was never doubted? That would be equivalent to a premium on dis- honesty. I will not employ a man I cannot trust, and I cannot trust you." Taking up the newspaper, he turned his chair to the fire, and appeared'to pore over its contents. "As I'm a living man, believing in a future," said Ernest Grey, with solemn energy, and a tone scarcely above a whisper,--"I am innocent of the crime laid to my charge- innocent in thought, or deed,- in whole, or part. I was   ERNEST GREY.         143 poor-if that is a ground for suspicion, Heaven knows they had grounds enough." The Judge made no reply, but kept his eyes fixed on the paper, as if it were the sole subject of his thoughts. "If you," continued Grey, "who know   the facts, and who know how unsafe it is to trust the clearest circumstan- tial evidence--if you discredit your own verdict, to whom can I apply?   Who will listen to me? Who will trust me?   And think  I may be innocent; but how long can I remain so? My wife is dying-my child is in want --hunger and despair are at my heart ; and what desperate counselors they are, the prosperous can never dream. I cannot answer for myself. Believe me guilty if you will, but give me a, chance to do better. Do not drive -me into crime." "I have listened to you quite long enough," said the Judge, rising; "and I  think it time for this interview to end. That I, in the course of my official duty, discharged you from confinement, is no proof that I presumed you inno- cent. Protestations have no weight with me-one proof is worse than a thousand, and I have invariably remarked that those who are loudest in protesting, are least deserving of credit. You may be innocent-it is quite possible ; but the threats you threw out incline me to doubt it. It is evident that virtue with you is a  matter of speculation. You can coolly foresee the. time you will be guilty, if not so   "4\    THE JUDGE 'AND THE ACCUSED. already; and calculate how much, or how little you'll endure, before you violate the laws of your country. As to being, driven into crime-that is one of the philanthropic cants of- the day, with which I have no sympathy. He who has erred once must submit to a probation." "That is all I ask, or wish for," replied Grey. "Try me-give me but a chance to re-establish my character- give me work." -"I answered you on that point already. I could not, in justice to you or to myself, place you in a position of responsibility, -where the trust and the temptation are about equal.   - 'i shrink-from no trust-I fear no temptatin," said -Gregvehemently. "If I were the veriest :dmon, trust me- and you humanize me." :For-a moment the suspicions of the Judge' gave way before the" feelings of the man, and he was half-inclined to grant- the 'request so earnestly urged but only: for a mo-  ment-the next consideration came, and Greyys very urgency told tagainst :him. - MeA don't covet trust solely to prove themselrv'sAtrustworthy, whispered suspicio/n, and that set- tled the question.  "I cannot depart' from my settled rule of action in your behalf," he said. "You are not the first who has promised boldly, but: promise and performance are two different - things, and. those who are proficient in one, rarely excel in    SHE: ASEHREPI-iTiEBDFLUN H ,lSWID OLYUWRsANE(LAEDI A C ET TiBA THE rl    ERNEST GREY.         146 the other. Besides, I would not consider myself justified; I would not be fulfilling my duty to society, if I preferred you to worthier men." "Would to Heaven!" exclaimed Ernest Grey, impetu- ously, " you had thought of your duty to society when I was in the dock. Had you been as careful of its interests as your own, I had been still inside the prison. But now, thanks to your clemency, I am free-free to starve--free to steal-free to sink, and sihnk and sink, till I reach the lowest hell of infamy. But am I free to work, or to remamin guiltless, as the law says I am? Do you think because I'm poor that I cannot feel for my own as keenly as the wealth- iest merchant of -New York? and do you think that, being human, I can look tamely on and see them die by inches, without making one effort to save them? No ; self-pres- ervation is the first law of nature, and they are dearer to me than my life. I will save them at all hazards. I call Heaven to witness that, to get leave to work, I have hum- bled myself until I have becpme mean in my own eyes, and what was the result?-insult and derision. If I ask for alms,t am told to work ; if I ask for work, I am told to follow my old trade. What am I to do? Everywhere it is the same. The prison spews me out because there is a doubt of my guilt, the world flings me off because there is a doubt of my innocence. Good morning, Judge; if we ever rmeet again, there may be no room for doubt."    "6   ERNEST GREY IN THE FIFTH AVENUE. He turned away abruptly, and left that room a desperate man. Out into the open air, that blew so keen and cold, and beneath the unclouded clearness of the wintry sky I He bared his throbbing temples to the wind, and wished it were a tempest, a deluge, a hurricane of hail. If the four winds of Heaven were to meet, and in their wild struggles form a whirling eddying vortex, something akin to the maddening maelstrom of his own mind, it would have soothed him. But that nature should be so calm when he was convulsed, so still when he was agitated, that the out- ward world should be so little in unison with his feelings, seemed strange and unnatural. He would have given worlds, had he possessed them, to see the flood-gates of Heaven opened, and to feel the rain beat in torrents upon his uncovered head. But let who will sorrow, the seasons take their course, summer roses blush above the dead, and winter's gay chrysanthemums, flowering mid the snow, make many a grave-yard pleasant. On he passed through that synonyme for New York wealth and luxury, the Fifth Avenue, with its rows of splendid houses grouped together in gregarious grandeur, each adding lustre to the other--its maghificent monotony broken up and relieved, at intervals, by detached mansions standing isolated and apart, disdaining to- merge their individuality in the aggregate mass of stone and lime that make up that fashionable thoroughfare. Gay equipages,   ERNEST GREY.-         14 freighted-with fair, but etiolated human blossoms, rattled over the stony street; gentlemen sauntered up and down, alternately twirling their canes and mustaches; and elderly ladies, in furs that erewhile "warmed a bear," moved on nervously, anxious about some poodle plump as a Hebe, or greyhound slim as a sylph, that accompanied  them. In that sacred locality stores and traffic were not, the clang of the hammer and the grating of the saw were apocryphal sounds, and the roar of the busy city died away into a murmur soft as the sound of a receding wave, ere it reached these castles of Indolence. Through this avenue did Ernest Grey pass, himself the strangest object there--strange as a spectre seen- at noon-day--and gazed upon the marble stoops elaborately carved, and the double windows exquis- itely draped with the- blended products of France and Belgium. But now the gas is lit, and delicate Corinthian pillars, graceful statues, "picture's that throwItalian light" upon the walls, and "Many a   mirror in which he oGat, Goliah, might have seen his Ant bulk. Whole, without stooping, to0*-ring crest and all," become    visible. Lovely, laughing groups, whose sweet faces are still-fresh with the morning dew of childhood, are there, and as the eye of that miserable man lingered, in a sort of fearful fascination, on the scene, his mind turned to the cellar-basement where cowered his wife and child, and   "8   ERBNEST GREY IN THE FIfVit AVENUE. he asked himself could they be of the same nature, formed of the same clay, and made by the same Creator as the joyous groups before him. Why were those so scourged, and these so favored? Why, indeed I Ah, Ernest Grey, the answer to that question would unriddle the mystery of life. With the idea of his wife and child came the desire to return home, but alas, he had nothing, not, even hope, to bring with him, he was an Ishmael among his brethren, a pariah among his kind, and from the bitterness of feeling engendered by such thoughts, arose scorn of his own pa- tience and bitter self-disdain. As he reached home he met the doctor, and anxiously inquired about his wife, "She is very low," was the careless reply ; "this frosty weather is unfavorable for her, but what she wants particu- larly, is nourishment. If she had that, she would get along." "Then she shall have it," replied Grey, with stern de- termination. Turning from the door, he proceeded to a large grocery store in the neighborhood, and without embarrassment or hesitation, made known his request. The person head- dressed was far from unfeeling, but there was a startling abruptness, a latent fierceness in Greys manner, to which bis own kind but superficial feelings gage him no clue, and   ERNEST GREY.         149 deeming the intruder an insolent street-beggar, who would force him to give by thireatening to take, he refused unhesi- tatingly. The clerk was examining a bill when Grey entered, and it now lay upon the counter. Thtetemptation was irresistible--he seized it and rushed from the store, followed by the clerk, whose cry of "Stop thief" soon gathered a crowd; They pursued their prey with the keen relish of sportsmen, and gradually gained upon him-nearer and nearer they came every step, and in less time than we have taken to describe it, Ernest Grey was again a prisoner. Let not the reader judge him too harshy-he was but a man whose very strength became his weakness; and had he been the only sufferer, no extremity could have driven him to such an act. Alas, there is no class in society whom we suspect so readily, and from whom we expect so much, as the poor.   Strange contradiction! Even those who would have succumbed to one-twentieth part of the tempta- tion, join in the general cry, and seize the opportunity to prove their own  virtue by their abhorrence of another's vice. "To  err is human :" what wonder, therefore, that Ernest Grey erred, placed as he was, like Tantalus amid luxuries, he dared neither touch nor taste, starving in the midst of plenty, enduring in a Christian land tortures which were considered by heathens fit punishment for the damned. Let us think gently of the fallen-   150         THRE TOMBS. 4 What's (one we partly may compute, tWe know not what's resisted. There could be no doubt concerning Grey's guilt-the money was found in his possession, the charge against him him as a hardened offender, did not vouchsafe a reply. Passing through manystreets reeking with filth and filled with miserable; squalid creatures, the otey procession at last reached the Tombs.   CHAPTER XVIII. EXCITING NEWS IN SHORTrS ALLEY.--DEATH O0V MRS. GREY. GREAT was the uproar and commotion in Short's Alley, when it received intelligence of Ernest Grey's second im- prisonment. With what virtuous acrimony they denounc- ed, with what pious animosity they reviled him! 'They knew him all along; he had never deceived them--they never liked him from the first--that they must say. "I don't believe in people that think themselves better than other folks,"  said one-" still water runs deep," said another ; and, " who would have thought it," added a third.  And so it passed from one to another, and the alley had a holiday, Which was spent in wondering what the world would come to, and thanking God they were not as others were. Some bore testimony to their own merits with a modest pride, while others besprinkled their dis- course with self laudations, introduced surreptitiously ; and others again, artistic in virtuous vanity, brought into. view their excellencies, merely as a relief to the dark back-   152        EXCITING NEWS. ground of human frailty. Yet there was one pleasant feature in the case-it proved beyond a doubt the people were not to be deceived by externals. Penetration, sagac- ity, and insight into character were theirs--they knew all the time how it would end-they looked and saw, and said nothing-what business was it of theirs. It was not long before Lizzy Roberts heard all. What could it mean? She knew not what to think. It was strange that he should be twice accused; but to her trust- ing mind not half so strange as that he should be once guilty. "I fear there's some truth in it this time," said Mar- garet, gently. "Not the shadow of truth-you do not know him or you would not say so." Margaret said no more, for Lizzy's agitated countenance denoted that she was greatly discomposed. "To hear them," she said, after a pause ; ' they seemed to feel glad to have something to talk about. They would not listen to a word in his favor-they were sure he did it." "Of course-that's natural, Lizzy. Human beings are like wolves : when one of the pack is wounded they rend him to pieces. But where was he taken? You might make out, Mrs, Grey, if you knew. Poor thing I I pity her from my heart." "I must put away my work and try, no matter what   happens. Jane wouldn't lose a  inute  coming to me. Oh dear! I fear I'm getting very hardened, to even think about myself and my paltry work at such a time." "I ewil go with yo, Lizzy--the walk will do me good, for mny side is so bad I can scarcely breathe." We will not follow them in their search; softee it, that having found the store on which the robbery was com mitted, they soon discovered Mrs. reys abode. T-he moment they darkened the door, Steve recognized his old f avorite, ad screa ming with surprise he ran to her, and hid his face in her bosom. On the pallet lay .Jae, apparentl y unconcious of even Steve!s presence, -and by the bed stood M's. Fitzgerald, bathing the burning temples of the poor invalid., and vainly endeavoring to repress her own tears. Two or three women were about -the  room and  ocasionally t hey would approach the bed, lance at the sufferer---then at-eawh other, and sagely shake their heads and sigh--" there was no hope."  Ad t  hey were right-death w  as in' every ofeature. Five. minutes had not elapsed from her husband's cap ture till she was made acquainted with it, and that incau- tiously. The consequence of it was easy to foresee, The anguish of her mind increased the lbver, and no w Jane Grey had not many minutes t o live. Death had passedthe threshhold and stood  amongst them , and awed by his dread presence, watche rs'and mourners  moved on tiptoe   154      DEATH OF MRS. GREY. and spoke- in whispers. The air was heavy, as if crowded with unseen spirits, and the convulsive gasps of the dying woman, told -the struggles of the impatient soul to burst its prison, for well it knew the advent of its liberator. Silently the young girls stood, tearless spectators of the dread conflict whose issue all foresaw. But when the child, dimly conscious of the appalling change, clung to his mother, entreating her not to go, their over-wrought feelings found relief in tears. "Not to go "-where? Strange--" above measure strange," that the first idea of death in a child's mind is inseparably connected with depart- ure. - Whence comes it? Innate it must be, for it is universal. The minutes passed away heavily, like hours. For a moment conciousness seemed to revisit the dying woman, and her eyes turned with a gleam of intelligence to the familiar faces around her; then wandered as if in search of one more loved, and at last lingered with deathless fond- ness on the youthful face that nestled by her side. "My child I my child I " she murmured at intervals, who will love you-who will mind you when I am gone?" "I will," sobbed Lizzy Roberts.  "I will love him dearly, and I will mind him the best I can." "Don't fret about him," said Mrs. Fitzgerald, earnestly ; "while God spares me my health, he'll not want, no more than if he was my own child. Make your mind easy about him."   ERNEST GREY.         155 The dying woman looked from one to the other, and a smnile irradiated her wasted features. For a few minutes she lay without motion-then with a sudden, superhuman effort, she half raised herself in the bed, flung her arms wildly upwards, and exclaimed in accents that thrilled the hearts of her hearers  "Oh, Ernest! Ernest!" It was the last flicker of the dying taper-the last ray of the setting soul-the next moment she fell back exhaust- ed-there was a hollow   gurgling sound-a deep drawn gasping sigh, and  ere the echo of that beloved name ceased to vibrate on her ear, the spirit of Jane  Grey had winged its flight to another world. Death, took his station by the bed, and Time and Eternity touched hands across it. iNever was there more sincere sorrow for the dead than in that humble room ; never was sympathy for the survivors more true and genuine. "She's dead P' said Mrs. Fitzgerald, closing the eyes. "No   I no I no  I she ain't," screamed Steve; "I I tell you she ain't.  Bother I mother I  waken--oh won't you waken up?  "And bursting into a passion of tears, he flung his arms about her neck, and kissed her cold lips again and again. Finding his entreaties unheeded, and his caresses unreturned, he had recourse to Lizzy Roberts. "Y Tou come,  " he said, entreatingly, pulling her to the bed- Y4 on co eh   ai  t.   156       DEATH OF MRS. GREY. side-" and speak to her, and she will waken up-I know she will. Won't you waken her, Lizzy?" Lizzy Roberts' forced composure vanished before this artless appeal, and clasping the child in her arms, she mingled her tears with his. Soothed by her sympathy,- his stormy sorrow gradually subsided, and he cried himself to sleep. Mrs. Grey's death was soon known around the neighlbor- hood, and throughout the evening women came dropping in, by twos and threes, to see the corpse.. Stealthily they moved about the room, as if afraid to disturb the dead, or stood gazing on the rigid features -so late instinct with life, their minds stirred by a vague, indefinite sense of mystery, strange, yet familiar. And children, fearful they knew not why, crept in, and peered from distant corners at the life- less form, until at last, grown bold, they ventured- nearer, and clinging close to their mothers, glanced with frightened curiosity at the object that repelled and attracted them. Many of the women had never seen Jane alive, but they unanimously agreed that she was very like :herself, afd each remarkedfthat it was :a happy exchange, and that every- thing was for the best. How easy it is to be resigned for, others 1-with what Christian fortitude we bear up against evils we do not share I how light seems the hand of God when not laid upon ourselves. Then each person had some trifingrr remark of her's to record, which they didn't mind   ERNEST eSEy.         ,r at the time, but which stmlck them afterwards as being strange e; and lugubrious anecdotes, suted to the solemn s;cene, were circulated, and persons dead and forgotten years ago, recalled to memory ; and dreams were told- some shadowy and mystical-others vivid and distinct as reality itself. They stopped for hours, but at last all were gone, and through the long, bitter night, Mrs. Fitzgerald, Liz Roberts and lMargaret kept solemn watch by the dead. "If she had only spolken one word to me-if ske had only once called me by name," said Lizzy Roberts to her two companions, '"I xwouldn't feel so bad; but to die think. ing m'e unkind." "She never thought that," said Mrs. Fitzgerald, kindly --- never. Sher knew better--she blamed it on the  Sew- ing; and if I  heard her say that once,. I leard her say it a dozen times."      . "Poor .lttle fellow!" said Margaret, as the child sobbed in his sleep -"what will become of him ?" t He shan't want while I have a morsel," said Mrs. Fitz- gerald. "Mvfy only child lies in a far-off .grave, and if I didn't love Stephen Grey for his own and his mother's sake, ---and for the matter of that--for his father's too--I would for his. Glad I'd be to see him well done for, but until some -one can do better for him than I can, I'll keep him, or, any way, till his father gets out of prison."   158       MRS. GREY'S DEATH. "I intended to take Steve home with me," said Lizzy. "Youl  Lord love you--to think of such a thing. Don't I know what sewing is-and your poor mother, too!" "My mother is no trouble to me now," said Lizzy, sadly " she's dead." "Dear me I Poor thing!"' said the pitying listener; "you have your own troubles. When did she die?" "Soon after Mrs. Grey left ; and every day since, I have new reasons to be thankful for it," Why need we repeat poor Lizzy Roberts tale of grief. The night wore heavily away, the lamps burned dimly in the greyish light of morning--another day was coming, and the busy hum of life without, contrasted strikingly with the solemn silence that reigned in that chamber of 'death-another day was coming, and the prelude to the stirring drama of city life had commenced. Why dwell upon the events of that day-the silent sorrow of the women-the passionate grief of the child-the pauper's coffin, and the pauper's grave.   CHAPTER XIX. THE SEW'IG GIRLS IN MR. CLEMENTS.-MR. HAMLTON AND THE APPLE.--THE COUSINS.--WHCH IS IT. MARGARET LINWOOD and Lizzy Roberts, were sewing a few days after Mrs. Grey's death, in a luxuriously furnished bed-room in Mr. Clements' palatial residence on the Fifth Avenue. Around them was the warmth of early summer, and all the floral bloom and brightness of that sunny sea- son glowed beneath their feet. Clouds of filmy muslin from the looms of Deccan and Hyderabad, white and soft as snow-wreaths, were piled beside them, and through it ever and anon flashed the remorseless scissors-able pioneer to the polished needle, that ever followed in its wake. "I don't know why it is," said Lizzy Roberts,. "but ever since Jane's death, I feel as if my own life was more uncertain, more insecure. Of course, I always knew that I should die some time-; but since then I seem to feel it. 'Seems to me that I am nearer to death now than I was before."   160       THE SEWING GIRLS. "And so -you are, Lizzy; each day brings us nearer to our goal." "Yes, I know; but it is not that, Margaret--not exactly that, but I feel as if-don't you remember that story of the Iron Shroud you told me--how each day a window disappeared, and the walls closed in, and at last entombed the unfortunate being who was imprisoned within it? Well, ever since, I feel as that man must have felt, when he first observed it. "Lizzy! Lizzy I I didn't think life was so dear to you. It is 'nature's privilege to die.' But drop that dreary sub- ject-I want to talk of something else. What young lady recommendedu us to Miss Clements?" "Miss Mason, the young lady that attended store in Mr. Sharpe's-she that always spoke so kind.," "I remember. Did she give you the umbrella you prize so highly?  ,  "Oh, no Ha young :man gave me that, and I do prize it highly for his sake." "That's :candid, Lizzy, at all events. And who may lie be? "I don't know. I wish I did; ;but I know he is kind- hearted, or hp wouldn't have cared about any body that looked so wretched and miserable as I did that morning. I know it was because I was so poorly :clad, that he made me take that umbrella, and I know I have often passed   ERNESt GREY.         161 gentlemen when I was dripping wet, and have seen them turn round to look and laugh. I shall keep that umbrella until I see him, if I ever see him again."  "Maybe you wouldn't know him." I'd know him any where, -Margaret; I'd know him any time. I wasn't so used to kindness, that I should take it as a matter of course." "What was he like? If handsome, I'd begin to be afraid, Liz." "He wasn't handsome, but he was better than handsome. He had a kind look and a pleasant smile, and he behaved so kindly that, after I got home, I cried-oh, dear! how I cried. It was so strange to meet kindness from anybody, that I  don't know how I felt. Oh I Margaret, I remem- ber every kind word- that anrhodv   Piver aid tfo mn  of late." "Yes, I  believe, yvo,. Liz, anda it. is not a very heavy ta on your memors  Buit tell me  something more about this Knight of hte Unmbrtella." "I haven';t aijything mnore to tell  I never saw hint since. Poor Ernest Grey knew  himx, and would have returned it to him, but his own misfortnue happened just then. Oh, dear I  when I think of the evening I brought that umbrella down to him, and how Steve wanted to harve it, and how his, father talked to himn about it, and made the child himself gee how wicked it was to wish for it, and how   162       THE SEWING GIRLS. proud Jane was of both in the middle of her sorrow-when I think of it '" And Lizzy Roberts, overcome by remembrance, wept long and bitterly. During the conversation, however, the work proceeded-the needle flew with marvelous rapidity through the gauzy fabric, and the busy fingers knew no pause. "How pleasant it is to sit in this room, and get a glimpse of the'blue sky by times, Liz, with its fleets of flying clouds, or its hosts of glittering stars. It is a luxury to look upon the broad heavens. Lift your eyes from your work for one- minute, and look through the window. If we had that window in our little attic, in place of the hole in the roof, through which we can see a star at a time, if we looked long enough-wouldn't we 'be stylish, Liz?" "I should think we would, Margaret, but our own little window is very good."  "Oh I too good. It catches a stray sunbeam for us once in a while, and I do verily believe I have seen the tail-end of a cloud through it more than once. It is too good for us by far: it takes a lady in a silk dress, or a white muslin one, to gaze at the moon: there can be no sympathy be- tween sixpenny calico and the stars. Do you think there can? do you think none but carriage folks can love flowers? You are too cunning to answer, Liz; but I can tell you,   ERNEST GREY.         163 no country girl ' stops her nose dt beds of violets'-it takes fine ladies to do that. Do you love the country?" "Love it, Margaret! I guess I do," replied Liz, with animation. "I love every blade of grass, and every wild flower, and every weed in it." "If you had forgotten the weeds, I wouldn't have given a fig for your love." "I would give anything to dream of it. I wonder I never do; but it is always the weary sewing night and day -I dream of nothing else."' "Not even of the Knight of the 'Umbrella?" said Mar- garet, watching curiously the effect of her remark. But she might as well have spared herself the trouble, for Lizzy never looked up from her work, and didn't seem to hear it. Margaret repeated the question. "No; I only think of him." "Only I Well, that's not much.   What do you think about him?" "I think I should like to see him again, and thank him," said Lizzy, quietly, "for I believe that people show their real nature in trifles." While the sewing girls were busy above, an animated conversation was going on in the parlors., Mrs. Clements had determined to give a  ball, and though sinking under 'the insupportable fatigue of thought ' consequent thereon, held- to her determination with laudable firmness. She had   164  MRS. CLEMENTS AND HER DAUGHTER. taken her heaped-up list of friends and winnowed it, thor- oughly'separated the chaff from the wheat, and issued her invitations accordingly. "Mother," said Agatha, remonstrating, "you are for- getting some of our best friends. Why don't you ask the Leesons?" -"How simple you are, Agatha I Because they are not crmnr il{faut. Who ever heard of them? They do very well for a quiet evening party ; but in a case of this kind, we should do with our friends as we do with our flowers-- cull a bouquet of the choicest and rarest Daisies and daffodils are very well in their place ; but this is not their place. I have sacrificed my own feelings without a murmur, and I expect that you will not be less magnanimous. Much as I like Mrs. Wilson, I have not asked her, though she is such a sympathetic soul, and feels for my sufferings much more, I must say, than any member of my own family- still I have not asked her, What do you say, Emily?" she inquired, turning to a bright-eyed girl who was examining some new music. "For pity's sake, aunt, don't ask her; she is a bore. When listening to her, I fancy I'm reading the annals of a hospital, and the index to an herbarium, beaten up together, like the white and yelk of an egg. Why don't you consult Robert?  "Oh, Robert has been from home these last two months,"   EIRNEST GREY.        165 replied Agatha. "He went to Charleston without giving us the least intimation of his design; but he will be home in time: we expect him next week." "Well, why don't you cousult Mr. Hamilton ?" "Consult me I  About what?" said Mr. Hamilton. "Hlear him, as if he didn't know. Why, all the time he was pretending to be immersed in that book, he was peep- ing slyly over the leaves at Agatha, or me--which?--'  as I am Egypt's queen, thou blushest, Antony'-which? 'tell truth and shame'--ah! that's a naughty quotation." "Never mind her,- Mr. Hamilton you know what a mad-cap she always was. You remember how she behaved last summer," said Aogatha, anxious to turn the' conver- sation. "How quickly you come to Mr. Hamiltons rescue, cousin mine. Let Mr. Hamilton fight hisown battles, and don't you take such an interest in him. What, you blushing, too, Agatha I Would you desire better sympathy, Mr. Hamilton?" "Emily!" said Agatha, in a tone of reproach. "Don't scold me, cousin; one glance at your counte- nance is as good as a lecture. Which were you admiring, Mr. Hawmilton ,? "Both, Miss North. "You are a Machiavel, I see; but a woman would be an over-match for Machiavel himself. Here is an apple ;"   166    MR. HAMLTON AND THE APPLE. lifting one from the silver salver, and passing it to hinm-- "now if you were Paris, which of us would get that apple?" "Either you or Miss Clements shall get it within two weeks," said Mr. Hamilton, earnestly, putting it carefully in his pocket as he spoke. "Now, heaven preserve us from a proposal 1" exclaimed Emily, .with affected terror. "Matrimony is in the solemn tones of that man's voice. Beware what you do I I give you fair warning that, if you present that apple, or any other apple, to me within the stipulated time, I will hold it equivalent to-'will you marry me, sweet Ally Croker.?" "I am willing to run the risk," replied Mr. Hamilton, cheerfully. "What says Miss Clements--is it a compact?" "How fearlessly the man talks, as if he would say-- 'who's afraid 1'" exclaimed Emily, lifting her hands in well feigned astonishment at his audacity. "Say yes, Agatha, and we will have him in a pretty cul de sac-say yes," she repeated, impatiently. But Agatha shook her head, and would not say yes. "Silence gives consent. But one word to the bargain- there must be no sneaking off afterwards under pretence of its being a frolic I'll be a very Shylock." "I give you my word I'll not sneak off on that pretence, or any other," said Mr. Hamilton.   ERNEST GREY.         167 "I'm in sober earnest, and Agatha--there can be no doubt of her good faith, for she took it seriously from the first. Didn't you, Agatha?" "Of course, Emily; anything emanating from you must be taken so. Mr. Hamilton understands that perfectly." "No 'ironic satire sidelongs sklented,' Miss Clements, if you please. You might take a lesson from Mr. Ham- ilton."' "Yes, he 'knows what he knows, as if he knew it not,' I grant, but nevertheless he knows," said Agatha. "Itill you let Mr. Harmilton speak for himself, belle et bonne?  Now, I say it will be no joke-what do yon say?" "I say , most emphatically, it shall be no joke, if I ca prevent it," he replied, earnestly. "What is all that nonsense about jokes?" inquired Mrs. Clements, in a querulous tone of voice, looking from one to the other for an explanation. "Agatha was trying to prevent this 'sallow, sublime, sort-of-Werter-faced man' here, from making a bona fide proposal to me. You were not? So, then, you thought all the time that I had no chance. Thank you--I really must rise for that compliment." "Mr. Hamilton propose for you, Emily? " "Oh, laws I aunt,-you make me blush," said Emily, affecting the most awkward embarrassment. "He has not   168     THE COUSINS-WHCH IS IT. asked me yet, but he is going to. He is going to propose in an apple," she added, in a half whisper "Gracious I what does the girl mean?" said Mrs. Clements. "She is going to revolutionize the ' Royaume du Tendre,' mother, and instal Pomona as the presiding deity, vice Flora deposed." "I believe you are all crazy this morning. I cannot understand half what you are saying, but what I do under- stand gives me unfeigned pleasure. There is no one I would welcome into my family more sincerely than you, Mr. Hamilton, and on this point Mr. Clements and I think alike." "I thank you, dear madam, for your favorable opinion, and I assure you that to be connected with your family is the dearest object of my ambition; but in the present instance ' Mr. Hamilton paused in comical perplexity, and looked at Emily, and she, afraid that her uncle might hear it, and not see the point of the joke, was obliged to explain. "Don't scold, dear aunt," she said, in a deprecatory tone, when she concluded; ' I know it was very improper, and undignified, and all that; but, as the children say,' I'll never do it no more/ " / t'    CHAPTER XX. MRS. CLEMENTS) BALLT--HE PROPOS  MAICE OP FRIENDS. THE day on which the ball was to take place, anxiously looked forward to by many, at length arrived, and Emily was in high spirits, for her dress was faultless and becoming, and it fitted her to perfection. A little after the appointed hour, carriages rattled up to the door in rapid succession, deposited their burdens, and gave place to others; guests poured in in one continuous stream, and young and old 'Shone forth, solicitous to bless, In allthe glaring impotence of dress.' It was a scene of gorgeous confusion, a blending of all possible colors, an exhibition of all imaginable tastes. Pearls and diamonds flashed in the blaze of innumerable chandeliers; rubies flushed a deeper glow, and emeralds glittered like the ocean at sunrise. Feathers swayed to and fro, like pendant branches in the summer air; roses with perfumed dew-drops exhaled their artificial fragrance; snowy clouds of lace floated past, mistily transparent, and *1   170      MRS. C(TVIiEMNTS' BALL. dresses of every variety of material, from the regal velvet to those gossamer tissues--- 'light as the foam That the wind severs from the broken wave ' ' were intermingled in a gay and brilliant chaos, changing and shifting like the colors in a kaleidoscope. Agatha and her cousin were dressed in white satin, with flounces of rich Chantilly lace, looped up at intervals with tiny bouquets of moss roses,-their rich, brown hair, ar- ranged in full bandeaux over their fair, broad foreheads, was destitute of ornament, save a solitary camelia. It would be difficult to decide whether the pretty, piquant Emily, or the more graceful and dignified Agatha, was more admired ; but certain it is that neither was overlooked. Mr. Hamilton divided his attentions equally between them, talked, and laughed, and danced with both, with an ease and grace that threw a host of youthful competitors into the shade; but though Emily watched and waited, looked and listened, no apple was forth-coming, an'd the stipulated time was drawing to a close. "Going to do anything desperate to-night?" she inquired, as she passed him in the da'nce; -but Mr. Hamilton only answered with a mischievous, provoking smile. "By Jupiter I that's a good-looking feller, Miss North," remarked her partner, an effeminate specimen of Young   ERNEST GREY.         171 America, with a decided aversion to the final consonants. "But a little oldish-must be thirty-five, if he is a day. Doesn't look desperate though, for seems to be on very good terms with himself. Now he comes with Miss Clements." "This gentleman doesn't think you look like a man that would do anything desperate, Mr. Hamilton," said Emily, stopping them as they passed--" and now that I look at you, I am beginning to think, myself, that 'you are not the man I took you for.' You did talk very big two weeks ago- ' Spak 0' lowpin o'er a linn,' or something of that sort; but I'm afraid you want heart." "I can assure you, Emily, that -Mr. Hamilton has gained hearts by the dozen to-night; let him have a heart, or not, he has brought them down at the first glance, and-bagged them as he would pigeons." "Then I have been fortunate beyond my wishes. Om heart would satisfy me, Miss Clements," said Hamilton, in a tone that sent the eloquent blood to her temples. "t How moderate the man is," exclaimed Emily, in accents of admiration-" what an example for you, Mr. Johnson." "'Pon honor "   'remarked the gentleman alluded to; "you seem to think me quite a  lawless character, Miss North. Never were more mistaken, I assure you. Ah! how do you do, Smylie?" - Mr. Smylie, the gentleman addressed, was a young, dis- tvngue and an indisputably handsome man, with dark eyes,   MRS. CT LiMiNTS' BALL.  a profusion of black, wavy hair, and teeth that any lady in the ball-room might have been proud to own. His man- ners were polished and agreeable, and when in the society of ladies, an air of deferential courtesy was superadded, that rendered him a universal favorite. He had long loved Agatha Clements, and after vainly trying to elicit from her some mark of preference, determined to know his fate at once. He came to this conclusion the more readily, because amid Agatha's crowd of admirers, there was none that she favored-therefore, none that he feared. Sometimes he wished that she had not such a high opinion of Mr. Hamil- ton, but Mr. Framilton was the friend of the family, and almost double her age-this re-assured him. During the evening he made many efforts to speak to her alone, but up to the present moment he had signally failed. "You disengaged, Miss North 1" he exclaimed, in a tone of extreme surprise-" why, miracles will never cease. I thought I saw Miss Clements with you just now." "She was here this very moment. I presume she and Mr. Hamilton have joined the dancers." But they had not joined the dancers, for Mr. Hamilton, insisting that Agatha must be tired, led her to a settee snugly ensconsed in a. quiet corner, and shielded from obser- vation by the half-open door. -Now," said he, seating himself beside her, "this is pleasant. Here -we can enjoy the inestimable privilege of    ERNEST GREY.         173 being silent when we like,---a privilege I think you ought to appreciate, after the volleys of compliments you have received and replied to." "Oh, compliments in a ball-room, like bon bons at a 'Carnival, are flung at random, and may be had for the picking up," replied Agatha. "For my part, I feel much as Moliere's Misanthrope felt towards those  'Grand faiseurs de protestations -   'Obligeans diseurs d' inutiles paroles---' who are only perfect in- "'art de ne vous rien dire avee de grand discours.' I wish there was more sincerity, in our every-day life." "Excuse me for one moment," said Mr. Hamilton, hastening to the supper-room and returning .instantly. "You have had no refreshments, and I fancy a few grapes will not be unacceptable, after your devotions to Terpsichore." On the plate he presented was a cluster of grapes that might have tempted an anchorite. Admiringly Agatha held up the semi-transparent fruit to the light, and in. doing so exposed to view a rosy-cheeked, Lilliputian lady-apple. For a moment her equanimity was disturbed, and in blush- ing confusion she replaced the grapes, but the next she blushed still more deeply, with mortification at her folly in    174        THE PROPOSAL. giving a serious turn to what was begun in jest. Taking up the apple, she said, laughingly- "So you have adjudged the Apple of Discord to me. H presume you were afraid to award it to Emily, after the fair notice you got. Now if I should hold you to the bond, and exact my pound of flesh, what a dilemma you would be in; and I really feel half-inclined to do it; but you look so penitent that I cannot bear to punish." "You mistake, Miss Clements; I am thoroughly im- penitent." This was said in a low, deep whisper, thatwsounded -like o anything but a jest. "Then in consideration of your frank, self-accusing avowal, I will remit the penalty," she replied hastily- "and in return for my magnanimity you shall ask me to dance." "One moment, Miss Clements," he said, detaining her as she rose to go-" grant me one moment." Agatha resumed her seat. He was strangely agitated for one so self-possessed in' general-so agitated that he could neither conceal nor control his emotions. Agatha, with a woman's intuitive perception, understood him at once, and, with a woman's ready sympathy, shared his agitation. "You wished just now, Miss Clements," he said, "that there was more sincerity in our every-day life. I will not   ERNEST GREY.         175 say to you, be sincere with me, for that you cannot help being-it is your nature, but I entreat you " A peal of laughter at his ear made Mr. Hamilton pause, and he then discovered that, while pre-occupied with their own feelings, a party had come up, unobserved, and taking their position on the other side of the open door, com- menced criticizing, in no gentle spirit, all the arrangements of the ball. Anxious to spare them the mortification of knowing that their observations had been overheard by a member of their host's family, Agatha remained perfectly still, hoping ,hat they would soon join the dancers. But her hope was vain, for after exhausting that subject they took up one more congenial. "As for that flippant cousin of theirs, she is a perfect coquette," remarked one. "At all -events, she does not conceal her real character- she does not play the prude, and seek to gain admiration by declining it," said a voice that Mr. Hamilton started to hear. He glanced uneasily at Miss Clements, and perceived, to his dismay, that she too recognized the voice of his relative, Mrs. Alworthy. "A capital dodge, that," said a gentlemen of the party --"a good many battles have been won, by retreating, since the days of the Roman Three." "Oh I Agatha Clements is a tactician," said Miss A1- worthy, bitterly.   176       MALICE OF FRIENDS. "Smylie, poor fellow I seems to admire her tactics. He is dreadfully smitten in that quarter, I can tell you. He is a gone case." "Oh, she only keeps on Smylie as a pis aller," said one of the Miss Alworthys; "she has other game a-foot. Smylie may be handsome, and admired, and all that, but he is not rich enough for her." "' Nor old enough," said the other sister, with a malicious laugh-" don't forget that, Letty. "es plus vieux sout pour elle les plus charmans' -if they have got money." "The fact of the matter is," said Mrs. Alworthy, deci- sively, "that Agatha Clements will never marry Smylie. I don't say but she may like him well enough-she keeps him running after her all the time, when another young girl would give him to understand that his attentions were thrown away. But ler real object is to incite George to propose for her." "Mr. Hamilton is a lucky man if he has gained. her affections," said a gentleman who had not ,before spoken. "Affections, indeed I affection for his money," was the answer. "She can't love George, for he is almost double her age, but trust me, he won't have to ask her a second time. Any one can see how attentive she is-she has eyes   ERNEST GREY.         1" and ars but for him, I saw them leave the ball-room half an hour ago, and I shouldn't be surprised if they were in some corner by themselves, and if some fortunate accident doesn't prevent, George may have already gone too far to retreat. If either of my daughters paid such attentions to any man, I would blush for them." "I move that we adjourn to the ball-room," said the gentleman who had   first spoken. "They are having a cotillon, and we had better hurry.." That all acquiesced in this, was evident by the rustling and fluttering that succeeded, as the ladies smoothed down their ruffled plumages, and the party was soon lost amid the brilliant crowd that thronged the ball-room. During the foregoing  conversation, Agatha sat as if stupefied, her varying color alone proving that she heard every word. She was only conscious of one  .wish-that she was alone. How could she bear to look at Mr. Ham- ilton again, he knowing that she had heard it all-how tolerate the slightest attention from him-how bring her- self to treat him as a friend. To increase her mortification and dismay, she felt that Mr. Hamilton's good opinion was of more consequence to her than that of all her other friends collectively, and that, unconsciously to herself, she had cherished for him a feeling .warmer than friendship. With what bitter self-contempt she acknowledged it to her own heart I Was it possible that her conduct gave any color   178       MATaICE OF FRIENDS. to such degrading suspicions? No, that was impossible- it was too humiliating even to suppose. Mr. Hamilton's mortification and embarrassment were not less than her's i but before the conversation was at an end, his resolution was taken. He felt that hesita- tion now would be insulting--that delay was impossible -that he must- speak   now, or be silent hereafter. If he could have feigned ignorance, he would have done it, for he feared that the irritation of wounded feelings would be unfavorable to him; but he could not, for he knew that she was aware he had heard the entire conversation. As soon as the last of the party disappeared, he turned to address Miss Clements ; but to his surprise she was no- where to be seen. He sought her in the adjoining rooms-- she was not there; in the supper-room-he could see no trace of her ; and at length he returned, reluctantly, to the ball-room. He had hardly entered, before he saw the object of his search engaged in an animated conversation with Mr. Smylie, during the pauses of the dance. Several times that night he endeavored to approach her, but she appeared to divine his intentions intuitively, and eluded him so quietly, that he actually doubted whether she had seen him. Finding every effort foiled, by chance or design, he deemed it useless to remain. "George, is it possible you are going?" said Mrs. AlB   ERNEST GREY.         179 worthy, tapping him on the arm. "I didn't think you were so easily discouraged." "You must speak plainly, madam, or I cannot under- stand you," he replied. "I am getting obtuse as I get old." "Old 1 ridiculous 1" slid Mrs. Alworthy, laughing. "How absurd. No man is old who is unmarried. Why have you left the field to Mr. Smylie? Miss Clements and he are making themselves quite remarkable. Indeed, to speak seriously, George, I think you have acted wisely: she is a thorough flirt." "Acted wisely I as how?" "Of course you know very well what I mean ; you need not affect ignorance with me-acted wisely in not going too far." "Mrs. Alworthy," said Mr. Hamilton, sternly, "your ideas of wisdom differ from mine materially. To gain such a heart as Miss Clements' would be my highest ambition; for it I would make any sacrifice, undergo any probation, and if genuine affection goes for anything in these days, I may hope to succeed. I shall try, however." "Trust me, you have only to try. I don't wish to flatter you, but you have so many advantages--you are so wealthy." "Name it not!" said Mr. Hamilton, impatiently. "It would be inoperative in this case. That slander upon   180       MALICE OF FRIENDS. woman, it ill becomes a woman's tongue to utter. Still, I agree with you, that hearts can be bought, but I believe they must be paid for in kind." And he moved towards the door. "I feel gratified that you have given me your confidence, George. You may rest assured I will not betray it; but I would advise you not to be too rash. Take time and consider.' "You need not keep secret what I have said to you. I do not seek to disguise my love for Miss Clements. I am willing that every one in the ball-room should know it," he replied; and-saluting his disconcerted relative, he left the room. Agatha saw him depart with pleasure, for his presence imposed on her a painful restraint. He only was aware of the mortification she endured, and when he was gone, -all necessity for affecting what she did not feel, vanished. It was with a feeling of relief she observed the guests depart, and pleading fatigue, to escape from Emily, she sought her own room, and wept bitter tears of outraged pride and wounded feeling.   CHAPTER XXI. AN UNEXPECTED MEETING--THE KNIGHT OF THE UM- BRELLA--SORROW AND REMORSE. WHEN Richard Kane gave up his pursuit of Ernest Grey on the memorable night of their last meeting, he sought his home, determined, if possible, to find him out the next day, or at least gain a clue to his whereabouts. That he should by one thoughtless phrase have added to sorrow already overpowering, filled him with poignant regret, and he could know no peace until he had made amends. For three or four nights in succession he lingered around the corner of Franklin and Broadway, but that miserable face, illumined by wild, despairing eyes, gleaming like dungeon-lights, came not again. At last, having failed in every effort, he gave up the search, and tried to believe that Grey had procured work, and that his sufferings were over. But still 'it weighed upon his mind-he could not banish it. Ernest Grey, as he had last seen him, haunted him night and day, and those reproachful words--"if you had not known  me, Richard Kane "--were forever ringing in his   182     AN UNEXPECTED MEETING. ears. He grew silent and thoughtful, his light-hearted laugh and merry jests were not heard in the work-room as of old, and his companions remarked that "Dick" was changing, and that not for the better. About two weeks after this, Kane, who was working up town, was returning home in the dusk of the evening, when a woman's voice reached his ear that he felt certain he had heard before, and that under circumstances that left a deep impression on his mind. Two women were in advance. of him, talking very low, but the tone of the voices could be distinctly heard, and as he listened,' he felt convinced that one was not unknown to him. - Passing them quickly, he stopped at the next, corner, and waited for them to come up. One glance was enough to assure him that the younger of the two was the person he had saved in Broadway. True, she looked healthier and prettier, and her dress, though very plain, was more comfortable, but still he knew her at once. Richard was too glad of the opportunity, and had wished for it too often, to let it pass unimproved. -Holding out his hand with the frank cordiality of an old acquaintance, he said to Lizzy- "I think you and I have met before She turned round quickly, looked in his face for a mo- ment, and then smiling with pleasure, shook his proffered hand, saying-- "Yes, fortunately for me, we did."   ERNEST GREY.         183 "Then you must be Richard Kane," said Margaret. "Yes, that's my name," he replied, a little- astonished at - her familiarity with it. "It was on the handle of your umbrella," said Lizzy, explaining;  'and although we were not sure that it was your name, we always spoke of you as Richard Kane." "And now that you have got into the way of it, I hope you'll keep to it, for I like the sound of my own name." "To tell the truth," said Margaret, "I have been so accustomed to hearing of Richard Kane all the time, that anything else would sound strange to me. I am afraid I wouldn't know Mr. Kane." "I am afraid I  wouldn't know him either," said Richard, laughing. "However, I  don't intend to make his acquaint- ance-he might be too uppish for me." "Very true," said Margaret, " so he might, and -for us likewise. What do you think, Lizzy?" "I  am so pleased to see Mr. Kane again," she replied, "that I can think of nothing else." "Mr. Kane   !" repeated Richard. "Well, if you are pleased to see him, I'll claim acquaintance with him right away."                     . "Pleased 1" said Lizzy. "Oh, far more than pleased; I   have so often wished to thank you for your kindness. Only this evening we were speaking of-you, and wishing to meet you."   184    THE KNIGHT OP THE UMBRELLA. "That is, you were wishing for it, and I was wishing that you might get your wish," said Margaret. "Besides, to tell the whole truth, I wanted to see the ' Knight of - the Umbrella--that's what I call you," she added, turn- ing to Kane; "for Lizzy talked so much about your daring feat at the Broadway crossing, that my curiosity was roused." "She did-eh?" said Kane. "Well, I thought she was too frightened to know who saved her, for she shook like an aspen, and could hardly speak." "You didn't give me time to speak," said Lizzy, "for you ran off as quick as you changed the umbrellas." Richard laughed as he remembered the way he had managed matters that morning, and the dashing style in which he had effected the change. "How I wish I had that umbrella with me now," added Lizzy, " for I may not have a chance of seeing you again." "It would be no use having it," said Richard, "for I wouldn't take it. Only for that umbrella you would have forgotten all about me long ago. I am not such a fool as to take it; and as for seeing me again, there'll be no chance about it next time. I never trust to chance." "How can you help yourself 7' said Margaret. "By helping you," was the jesting reply. I'll see you safe home." "That will be taking advantage of a chance."   ERNEST GREY.         185 "Certainly; but that's very different from trusting to ane y" "Well, I suppose you may come. Eh, Liz?" "Oh I Margaret, how could you," said Liz, aside--" such a place. We live too far away,"she said to Kane, "to think of bringingyou. Besides, we don't mind going home by ourselves--we are use d to it." "Then it will be a novelty to have another with you," said Kane. "Besides, you and I are old friends, and you oughtn't to be the first to make objections. Margaret didn't make any. Excuse me 1" he said to her, " but that's the only name I know for you." "I admire your tact, Mr. Kane," said Margaret, laugh- ing. "So you want to know our names." "I would be pleased to know them," he replied; " but I did not say so for the purpose of finding them out, I assure you. I know you are Margaret and she is Lizzy, and that's enough now." "Well, add Roberts to Lizzy, and you have her name complete. Linwood is mine." "Thank you, Miss Linwood; and now that we are regularly acquainted, you will take this arm, and Miss Roberts will take the other, for I am bound to see you home. WNow we are all right," he said, getting one on each side of him. "There's no use in trying to block me off, for I always have my own way in the end."   186    THE KNIGHT OF THE UMBRELLA. By this time they had left the aristocratic quarter of the city. Broadway, with its parallel lines of light, lay before them in all its nocturnal splendor, gorgeous as an Oriental's dream. Both sides of the street were crowded, for Pleas- ure was at high tide, and on its exulting billows thousands were borne into the different temples of Thespis, to weep with Melpomene, or laugh with Momus "This is our way," said Lizzy, turning down one of the streets that led to the East River; " and you must not come one step further. We have taken you too far out of your way already." "The truth of the matter is," said Margaret, " that Liz don't wish you to see where we live, lest you might be dazzled by our magnificence. Now as I have got either less or more pride than she has, I dqn't rightly know which, I don't mind it at all; and I shall be as glad to see you as if we were in a plainer place." "I think it must be you I met before, and not Miss Roberts," said Richard, in a tone of slight reproach. "Now you are offended, Mr. Kane, because I wanted to spare you a long walk," said Lizzy; "and that's not fair. You can come the whole way' with us, if you have a mind to.' "I guess I have a mind to; and now that I look at you again," said Richard, feigning to peep under her bonnet, "I feel sure you are the very person I met in Broadway,   ERNEST GREY.         187' and no mistake about it. I wonder now I could have any doubt about the matter." "By the time we get to our splendid abode that wonder will be absorbed in a newer," said Margaret. "You will wonder at our magnanimity in suffering you to come within eye-shot of it. Prepare yourself for a surprise." "I hope it ain't a finer house than the one you came out of, for if it is I'll clear." "Finer than Mr. Clements'!" said Margaret, surprised; "they shouldn't be mentioned together." "Clements? Clements?" repeated Kane.   "What Cle- ments?  Is it the man that accused Ernest Grey?" "Then you did know Ernest Grey, and you are the person he spoke off said Lizzy, eagerly. "Oh   I how much he thought of you." "I   know it," said Richard, wincing, as if in pain ;-- "more than I deserved. I wish he hadn't. Do you know where he is?" "In the Tombs," replied Lizzy, sadly. "No, no, no; I saw him since he got out." "The second time?" inquired Margaret, anxiously. "What second time? For heaven's sake!  don't tell me he was imprisoned a second time-don't," said Richard, with an impatient earnestness of manner quite unusual to him. "It's not possible-it can't b e-Ernest Grey I  for what?"   188      SORROW AND REMORSE. "For taking money to buy food for his wife and child." "Good God!" he exclaimed, coming to a full stop, clasping his hands over his eyes; " how horrible-just after he left me I Oh, Richard Kane 1 Richard Kane I what have you done? Where is his wife?" "Dead," was the almost inaudible reply. "His child-what of him?" "He is with a true friend-one who showed his mother kindness when it was most needed," replied Lizzy. "That's well," said Richard: "one plank from the wreck. Come, let us go on; it's no time to keep you standing," he said, putting their arms through his and hurrying forward, as if life and death depended on his speed. For full ten minutes they kept up the same pace, without interchanging a word. Block after block was passed, each more dilapidated than the preceding one, and at last they reached Short's alley. Here the relaxing pressure on Kane's arms reminded him that he was not alone, and arrested his progress. "This is our home," said Margaret. "Will you come in and rest?" "Not now," replied Richard, observing the place mi- nutely; "but I will call soon and bring you word about Ernest." "Oh, do!" said both girls, urgently.   ERNEST GREY.         189 ' If you knew what cause I have for remorse concerning this affair," he added, sadly, "you would pity me. I feel convinced but for one inadvertent word of mine, Grey would never have committed that crime, and to satisfy my mind upon that point, I must see him." "You had better not delay about it," said Margaret, "Iest he might be removed. Will you see him to-morrow?" "If possible." "When will you call here, Mr. Kane-" said Lizzy, anxiously. "Do let it be as soon as you can. Could you come to-morrow evening?" "If I see him through the day I will be here in the evening-you may rely upon it." "Will you be sure to know the place?" "I never forget where a friend lives," said Kane; "and you knowing Grey, makes me feel now as if we were really old friends." "And I felt so from the first," said Lizzy, simply; "but then you were a friend-that makes the difference. Good night I Don't forget to-morrow." Richard, a prey to conflicting feelings, turned home- wards, and Lizzy and Margaret groped their way through the profound darkness to their own room, there to talk over the events of the day, and speculate on the share Richard Kane had in Ernest Grey's fall.   CHAPTER XXII. ANOTHER NEW MEDICINE--CHT-CHAT--RE-APPEARANCE OF THE APPLE--A DECLARATION. "WELL, really, we are fortunate," said Helen Alworthy, entering Mrs. Clements' parlor the second day after the ball, "to meet three gentlemen where we did not expect to see one. How d'ye do, Mr. Smylie I I have a great mind not to speak to you," she added, shaking hands with Robert-"for you were not here in time to dance with me. Good morning, Mrs. Clements I I hope you feel better." "I hope you have not over-fatigued yourself," said Mrs. Alworthy, advancing. "You exerted yourself too much. I was miserable, on your account, all the night. Allow me to introduce my friend, Mrs. Spencer-Mrs. Spencer, Mrs. Clements. Mrs. Spencer," she 'added, in a low voice, after the ladies had gone through the prescribed formula on such occasions--" has heard of a most wonderful cure, and I induced her to come and relate the entire matter to you." "How very kind 1" said Mrs. Clements, warmly. "I   ERNEST GREY.         191 feel indebted to both, and, for the first time in my life, I feel indebted to my ill-health, for it has procured me the pleasure of this introduction. Was this wonderful cure wrought by a new medicine?" "Yes, a perfectly new one," replied Mrs. Spencer, em- phatically. "It is called 'Death's Bane and Antidote,' and I think there never was a more appropriate name." "' Death's Bane and Antidote,'" repeated Mrs. Clements. "Well, I really do like the name: there is a great deal in a name. I tried the 'Hysterapipus' last, and the 'Life Giver' immediately before it, but I do think this is a better medicine.  What does it cure?" "Oh 1 everything  you could name, from a felon to a fever; but it is particularly adapted to cases of nervous suffering." "Ah I that is the very thing I want. I undergo martyr- dom with my nerves every day and hour, and in my case I find that, like the tooth-ache, it meets with no sympathy. But about the cure--I am all anxiety to hear of it. Sit beside me"-she   added, addressing Mrs. Spencer, and making room  for her on the tete-a-tete-" they talk so loud, and. I wish to hear every word.?' "I believe I shall leave you to discuss the matter between yourselves, and see what my  young friend Ro- bert has been doing during his absence," said Mrs. Al- worthy.               .     .:   192'         CHT-CHAT. 'Advancing to the group, she took a seat beside Robert, and engaged him in conversation about his visit to Charles- ton, and the persons he had met -there. After exhausting this topic, she turned to Mr. Hamilton, who was examining some drawings that were scattered on the table, with great apparent interest, and remarked that she did not expect to see him there. "Why not, Madam?" said ][amilton, raising his eyes to her's, and looking her full in the face. "Well, I don't know, I'm sure: you can't expect me to give a reason for everything. Where is Miss Clements? Have you seen her?1" "We have not been so fortunate," replied Mr. Smylie. "Nor Miss North? "Yes, we have seen Miss North. She looks as fresh as morning roses, and one could scarcely believe that she ever inhaled the heated air of a ball-room." "What a pretty compliment I I would'nt have missed it for the world," said- Emily,- standing in the door-way, and courtseying to Mr. Smylie. "You are the only gentleman in the room, Mr. Smylie," she added, advancing, "that knows how to pay a compliment gracefully. Have you one for my cousin Agatha?"  Miss Clements looked paler than usual, but as Mr. Hamilton turned round to address her, she blushed crim- son, and endeavored to hide it by stooping to gather some soan v   ERNEST QREY.         193 faded flowers that layupon the table. When she raised her head, every trace of confusion had vanished, and with her usual unembarrassed gracefulness of manner, she wel- comed her visitors. "I have been bespeaking a compliment for you, Agatha, from Mr. Smylit," said her cousin; "and I presume it is ready for delivery now.  How  long does it take you to concoct an impromptu, Mr. Smylie?" "Well, when there is a great hurry I can get up one in a day; but, generally speaking, I require three, to do justice to myself, Miss North.  But if I had a hundred prepared, I should forget them all in the presence of Miss Clements." Spoken with good emphasis and discretion," said Emily; "and, really, it sounds as if you meant it." "Miss North little thinks how truly she speaks," said Mr. Smylie, in a low voice, bending over Miss Clements' chair, under pretence of pointing out some defect in one of the drawings. *"I forget everything-I forget myself in her presence." "I do not observe the defect you speak of," said Agatha, affecting not to hear him; "but I   have no doubt Miss Alworthy would detect it at once, she has such a correct eye." During the conversation, Robert was gazing abstractedly into the street, and was only roused from his reverie by   194 ir^  .        CHlIT-COAT. feeling his cousin's hand upon his shoulder, and hearing her whisper in his ear- "Wod but some power the giftie gie us, To see oursels as ithers see us." "Come, Robert," she said aloud, " come, take your sta- tion opposite this glass-nothing so improves a man as self- reflection. Come, I want your opinion of a sombre relation of mine you'll see there." "Perhaps Mr. Clements has left his heart with some Southern lady," suggested Miss Alworthy. "That would account for his low spirits." !"So it would," said Emily. "How stupid of me not to think of that . Now if you had left your heart with me before you went, Robert, you would have escaped that mis- chance, and you would have had it again for the asking'." "If I had left it with you, Emily, it wouldn't be worth taking. I know how you would treat it. However, I can assure you, ladies, no such misfortune has befallen me. If it had, I hope I know better than to present myself before you-a heartless fellow is not fit society for ladies." "No, indeed!" said Miss Alworthy. "They are just like swindlers,--obtaining money under false pretences. I have no patience with them." "Money!" said Robert, in affected perplexity. "What money? Oh! wealth of affection, of course. Very good I   ERNEST GREY.         195 Miss Alworthy-very  good, indeed I  Between you and me, I think that gentleman there," pointing to Mr Hamil- ton, and affecting to speak low, "looks very like a swin- dler. I don't pretend to be a judge, mark you ; but I say what I think. What do you say, Emily?" "I do not like his looks, I promise you ;' but we had better take care, or he will overhear us." I thought you intended being up for the ball, Mr. Clements," said Helen Alworthy. "I assure you your absence was universally regretted." "Regretted, and Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Smylie present I You flatter me; and wasn't Mr. St. John-Apollo St. John, as we call him, there? What do you think of him, Miss Alworthy?" "I think him exceedingly handsome," exclaimed Helen Alworthy, -enthusiastically. "Don't you, Miss Clements? Such eyes I such teeth i': "I never think any face handsome that Jacks expres- sion." - "He handsome!" said Emily, laughing. "Why, there is nothing in his face but-features.' "For pity's sake I what else would you want?" said Miss Alworthy, laying down the drawing 'which she had been criticizing with Mr. Smylie. "What have you, or I, or any one but features?" "You are a very severe critic of masculine beauty, Miss   'CHT-CHAT. North," said lMrs. Alworthy, sneeringly. "Allow me to tell you that Mr. St. John is universally considered the handsomest man in NTew York." " Alas for New York 1" murmured Emily, pathetically. "And you will not find one in a thousand that will agree with you. I heard quite a number of young ladies admire him the other night." "Did you hear any admiring me ?" asked Robert, with an affectation of simplicity that was irresistibly ludicrous. "Don't answer in a hurry, dear Madam. 'No' is an ugly word for a lady to use." "Do you want her to immolate Truth at the Shrine of Courtesy ?" -inquired Mr. Smylie. "My dear fellow, that is a sacrifice Mrs. Alworthy could never be induced to make. Well, I will not press for an answer. I withdraw the question. But my two friends were present--what of them ?" "Oh, they were Caesars-they came, they saw, they conquered. Wherever they appeared, hearts popped down like over-ripe apples in a breeze, or like Orientals before a monarch. I verily believe that if all the hearts these two gentlemen wounded on that memorable night were collected in a mass, they would overtop the Tartar's pyramid of skulls. Yet see how quiet they-look-their hearts are unscathed." " ' ath any man seen them at the barbe's lately ?'"-   asked Robert, in a loud voice. "That's the test. Look this way, gentlemen. Ha I smooth faces and soft hearts. Emily North, you have slandered them cruelly: they are in love. 'Oh I coz, Poz, coz-my pretty little coz, if thou didst know how many fathoms deep they are in love,' thou wouldst pity them." "That would do them no good, unless they were in love with me." By this time Mrs. Spencer had given the most minute details of the wonderful cures performed by " Death's Bane and Antidote," and had heard from Mrs. Clements the rise and progress of every disease with which she was afflicted, the difficulty of knowing them in their incipient state, and the impossibility of eradicating them when they became chronic; knew by heart the chronology of each disease, and their order of precedence, and was in no danger of giving neuralgia the pas of tic doloureux, or committing any other anachronism equally absurd. Having exhausted the subject, both ladies, by common consent, joined the group. "Emily, do you remember where I put that prescription I had last week ?" said Mrs. Clements. "In Agatha's work-box. Shall I get it ?" "Yes, do so : I want to show it to Mrs. Spencer." Emily was not long in finding the prescription, but on shutting the box she discovered, as every one has done in like circumstances, that it would not close, and she  198    RE-APPEARANCE OF THE APPLE. lifted up the different articles to arrange them more compactly. "Why have this packed so tightly, Agatha?" she ex- claimed. "What is it? oh, my work-box," said Agatha, rising in great trepidation, and hurrying across the room-" do not trouble yourself about it. I shall attend to it." But the caution came too late. Emily had removed the greater part of the contents, and in the bottom lay the identical apple she had given three weeks ago to Mr. Hamilton. "Eureka! eureka!" she exclaimed, joyously, holding the apple high over her head. "Mr. Hamilton, do you know it?" "Emily I I beseech you, give it to me," said Agatha, in tones of earnest entreaty, grasping her by the arm as she spoke. The touch, slight as-it was, displaced the apple, which fell and rolled over to Mr. Hamilton's feet. To lift it and recognize it was one and the same thing. "Pshaw, it is only an apple," said Miss Alworthy, "Really, I thought it was a portrait, at the very least." "So, Mr. Hamilton," said Emily, with a provoking laugh, "I have found out what you did with the apple. Now don't flatter yourself that I feel mortified. How cunningly Agatha had it stowed away in her box." "Was it this apple you found there just now?" said Mr.   ERNEST GREY.          199 Hamilton, eagerly, his eyes sparkling with pleasure, and every feature radiant with delight. "Yes, the very apple--give it to me." "Excuse me,' he replied, hastily, "I cannot." "My! what fuss about an apple," said Helen Alworthy, contemptuously.     ,  "I don't understand it," remarked Mrs. Alworthy " but there is some -wonderful mystery about it-that's very evi- dent. What is it, Miss North?" "Simply this: Mr. Hamilton, in order to spare---" Emily looked at Mr. Hamilton, and then at her cousin's agitated countenance, and for the first time the idea struck her that it was not all a jest, and she paused, at a loss what to say. Mr. Hamilton observed her embarrassment, and came to the rescue. "What have you done with the prescription?" said he, laughing. "You seem to have forgotten all about it, and Mrs. Clements' patience is giving way." Really, that is too bad," said Emily, taking advantage of the opening this afforded to escape.. "I must get it for you, dear aunt. Here it is, as yellow as the flowers in Mrs. Percival's hat." Emily threw this out intentionally, foreseeing that the discussion it would give rise to, would prevent any recur- reuce to the former topic.- And she was right in her con- jecture, for Mrs. Spencer, true to her instincts, seized   200        A DECLARATION. eagerly on the opportunity for dilating on her favorite theme, and, after proving conclusively that Mrs. Percival's flowers were not, and could not be yellow, and that, in fact, they were so far from being yellow, they were the most delicate shade of lemon color-she passed on to other subjects of equal importance, and left the apple so far behind, that it was impossible to return to it. Having silenced all caviling on that point, and having impressed on Mrs. Clements the necessity for procuring the new medicine without delay, she rose and took her leave. "I am sorry, my dear Mrs. Alworthy, to take you fiorom such agreeable society," she said, smiling on each member of the group, " but I gave you to understand before coming that my time was limited, and you see I have made a much longer visit than I intended." "It was exceedingly kind of you to'call," said Mrs. Clements- "very kind, indeed. I have not words to ex- press how grateful I feel. The mere anticipation of that medicine has done me good." "I hope we shall see you soon, Mrs. Spencer," said Agatha, with graceful warmth ; " for if not, this visit will be merely a matter of regret." "Ah! thank you : I certainly shall call soon, for I am interested about this medicine.' ," What! another new medicine, mother," exclaimed Robert, laughing heartily. "Well, who says there is   'ERNEST GREY.         201 nothing new under the sun? But it's all right, I dare say. Why should we have old-fashioned medicines any more than old-fashioned clothes?" "Or old-fashioned doctors," said Agatha. "Why had you Dr. Newman when you were ill last summer?" "Why I Because it is such a pleasant thing 'of the doctor in the mode to die.' " "Well, I hope we shall all live for a good many summers to come," said Mrs. Alworthy, arranging her hat before the glass. "For my part, I'm not tired of this world yet, although I am getting old." "Old," repeated Mr. Smylie, smiling incredulously. "No lady begins to get old until she is ninety-nine. That's an article of my faith." "My I only listen to him," said Miss Alworthy. "What a courtier he is." "Come, girls," said Mrs. Alworthy, who was now fully equipped for the street. "We are going.  Shall we leave you behind?" "Oh, no  we have some purchases to make," replied both in a breath. "I wish you would come with us, George," said the elder sister. "You have a very good taste, and I want to con- sult you." "And I have an exquisite taste, and like to be con- sulted," said Robert; "so with your leave I will go too.                       .   202        A DECLARATION. Smylie, you can stay with the ladies until I return, aifd act tove among the Roses. Agatha will sing for you." "I think I shall stay for the singing, too," said Mr. Hamilton, aside, to Robert. "No, sir, you shan't," he replied, imperatively. "I must have your opinion of a horse father is about buying for me. So come along-you can, come back with me, if you have a mind to." Emily stood at the window as they passed, and returned the smiles and bows, of the entire party. The day was beautiful, clear, bright and frosty; a gentle wind rattled the skeleton trees, and the slanting sunbeams fell athwart the leafless branches, flinging their giant shadows on the spotless pavement. "I wish I had gone with them," said Emily, turning from the window. "That day might tempt an invalid out." "I wouldn't advise you to go out to-day, Emily, for you have a slight cold, and there is nothing so treacherous," said Mrs. Clements, leaving the room, and taking with her for loving study an authenticated list of cures, all accom- plished through the agency of "Death's Bane and Anti- dote." These cures were all attested by "most honorable men," but strange to tell, they had all occurred in some distant state, proving incontestibly that New York was mnore healthy, or New Yorkers less philanthropic than Carolinians or Oregonese. 'U   ERNEST GREY.         203 "I don't think I shall go out, lut I must see what Lizzy and Margaret are doing above stairs. Haven't they got some work of mine in hands, Agatha?" "Yes, I believe so ; but they understand perfectly what they are doing. I feel quite confident they will make no mistakes." "Better be sure than be sorry. I shall look in and see for myself. Make Agatha sing for you, Mr. Smylie, end that will relieve the tedium caused by my absence." But Mr. Smylie appeared, to have no desire for music. In place of opening the piano and arranging the music, he stood up, went to the window, looked out for a while, and then returned to his seat, without saying a word., Agatha addressed some trifling observation to him, but he was so pre-occupied that he did not hear it. The silence was fast becoming embarrassing, and observing this, she seated her- self at the instrument, and struck a few preliminary chords. At the first sound Mr. Smylie's abstraction vanished. "Miss Clements," he said, coming close to the piano and speaking in a low, earnest voice-"Miss Clements, I ask your attention for a few moments. You must know what I am about to say: if you do not, then I am a poor expo- nent of my own feelings." "You give me credit for too much penetration, Mr. Smylie," said Agatha, calmly observing that he expected a reply. "It would be absurd in me to pretend to know what   204        A, DECLARATION. I have not heard, for I am often puzzled to understand what I do hear." "I hoped-I trusted, that Miss Clements understood- that she at least suspected the existence of a feeling that has influenced my every act and thought for months past, and that feeling," he said, in tones of impassioned earnest- ness, "was love for her. If I have spoken prematurely, forgive me  " "Most sincerely do I wish you had spoken before, or that I had suspected this," said Agatha, with deep feeling. "Believe me, I feel deeply grateful for your regard, but--" "Say no more, Miss Clements," he said, hurriedly. "That 'but' can have only one meaning. You cannot return it--is it so? am I right? or is it in the power of time to change your feelings-to create an interest for me in your heart? Say it is possible, barely possible, and I will trust to time."   .  "It is not possible," she replied, in tones so low that he could scarcely hear. "I thank you for your frankness, Miss Clements. I am aware that I have no right to ask another question; still I would fain know " "Hallo V! cried Robert, rushing in, followed by Mr. Hamilton, "I believe we have spoiled a tete-a-tete. This looks suspicious-at the piano and not a note struckl Where's Emily?"   ERNEST GREY.         205 "She has just left the room." "How came you back so soon?" asked Mr. Smylie, making a determined effort to control his feelings, and succeeding wonderfully. ' I thought you intended to test the patience of a dozen shopkeepers before you returned." "Who can overrule Fate or Woman? I did intend to be present at the ordeal you allude to, but the ladies changed  their mind-which proved they did not change their nature--and put off their shopping till to-morrow; and incontinently we put back for you.. I want you to come and see my horse--you are as good a judge as Ham- ilton. I won't take an excuse. He's a perfect beauty, I tell you-not a white spot on him--tail and mane black as midnight-eye like an eagle's--neck like a  swan's--sure- footed as a mule, and graceful as an Arabian. He's bound to take everything equine down." "Molrbn has got one," remarked Smylie. "Pshaw   ! Smylie. I wonder at you to speak of -him. Why, man, I  tell you, he's not a circumstance to mine-- he can't begin to compare with him. Morton, indeed l Come I'd Both gentlemen were evidently disinclined to go, but Robert would not be denied; they were obliged to yield, and listen for hours to a learned disquisition on the different breeds of horses, slighting comments on other men's four- footed property, and thrasonical rhapsodies about his own.   CHAPTER XXIII. THE CONFESSION-VINDICATION OF ERNEST GREY. MR. CLEMENTS sat alone in his study, a room exclusively devoted to his own use, where no one was privileged to intrude. It was small, but exquisitely fitted up: the walls presented an accurate resemblance of antique wainscotting, and the ceiling recalled to memory the groined arches of an ancient cathedral. Around the room were ranged book- cases of dark oak, carved and pointed in the Gothic style, and above them, contrasting finely with the dark back- ground, were busts of Homer and Dante, Shakpere and Schiller, sculptured from the purest marble of Carrara. A bright fire burned in the grate, and the ruddy light, flash- ing and glancing on the polished oaken panels, had a pleasant, cheerful aspect. A large book was on the table before him; his spectacles lay between the leaves, and he himself, with hands folded and eyes closed, reclined in his easy chair, probably digesting what he had read. The door was opened with a quick, rapid jerk, and Robert entered, without the least excuse, closing it care-   ERNEST GREY.         207 fully after him. His features, though pale and agitated, were expressive of firm resolve; no trace of the youthful joyousness that formerly distinguished him, could be dis- covered in that countenance-the character of the indi- vidual seemed to have undergone a radical change. "Father," he said abruptly, "had you ever a man in your employment called Grey-Ernest Grey'?" "Yes; what of him?"' "Why did he leave you? What became of him?" "I neither know nor care what became of him. He was a worthless fellow." "But why did he leave you?" persisted Robert. "Where did he go to?" " To prison," replied Mr. Clements, shortly-" to prison, sir, I repeat. But what interest do you take in this man, Robert? Why do you catechize me about him? Do you know anything of him?" "I heard to-night, by the merest chance, that 'you charged him with feloniously abstracting fifty dollars from your desk. Is that true, father?" "Perfectly true. What of it?" "When did it happen?"  "I suppose I shall know, presently, the drift of these questions, Robert." "Yes, father; you will know it soon enough--too soon," he muttered to himself.   208        THE CONFESSION. "Well, it happened before you left the city with your wild companions-if that is not precise enough, it happened the very day you were in the office." Robert went to the window and rested his throbbing temples on the glass. "What do you know of this man?" inquired Mr. Cle- ments, after a pause, which his son did not seem inclined to break. "I desire' to know the meaning of these questions. You came into this room to-night with a settled purpose: explain it." "One question more, father," said Robert, placing him- self on the other side of the table, opposite to Mr. Cle- ments;; "but one, and then I will speak. Did you prose- cute that man rigorously? If you can answer it in the negative, do so, for Heaven's sake." "You nand I appear to have changed positions," said Mr. Clements, with cold displeasure. "I do not know why I have answered so. many questions; but 'this I have no hesitation, e replying to: I acted 'in accordance with my duty to society. I presume that is sufficient answer." Duty to- society, thought Robert, like charity, covers a multitude of sins, "Father,", he said, after a short pause, "that man has been unjustly accused: he did not take the money." "Then, who did? cried Mr. Clements, starting to his feet and confronting his son--"who did? I insist upon   RERTBN:. GBREY.        209 knowing. Some one that you know, Robert--that's very evident; and let him be who he will, he shall suffer. Who did it?"  "I did," said Robert, in a low, firm voice. "I alone did it." Mr. Clements staggered as if he had received a mortal blow, and leaned heavily upon the table. "You!" he said, slowly. "]"My son t I camlot believe it. Say it is not true, Robert-I entreat." "Father, I cannot," replied Robert. "It is true ; and worse remains to be told. This man's character was so injured by that accusation that he was ultimately forced into crime-driven into it by self-preservation, for the means of subsistence were denied him." "And how can you tell this to me, sir V" exclaimed Mr Clements, fiercely. i How can you excuse the mean atroc- ity of such conduct-the enormity of such a dastardly sin? What!-not content with defrauding me, your father, you must fling the odium of your act on another--one, too, so poor that he might, naturally be suspected-so circum- stanced that probabilities became proofs--so isolated that no one could testify to his character--so friendless that there was none to help him. Had you nerve to commit the sin, and not enough to face the consequences? An- swer, Robert Clements. Heavens I that a son of mine should be so degraded-not only vicious, but a coward in vice!"   210       THE CONFESSION. "You wrong me, father ; I knew nothing of the charge," exclaimed Robert. "How can you extenuate the cunning wickedness of your after acts, your crafty quietness, your politic silence?" con, tinned Mr. Clements, not heeding the interruption. "If my motive in being silent was to throw suspicion upon another, why do I speak now?V said Robert, warmly. "All that is necessary is to act as I have hitherto done. But no ; that I could not do. I knew not that suspicion had fallen upon any one. If I had, I would have thrown every personal consideration to the winds, and acknowledged myself guilty; but I heard it to-night for the first time. As for the money, I wanted it not to supply my extrava- gance, but to lend to a friend." "A friend!" repeated Mr. Clements, indignantly. "Why did you not apply to me?" "To what purpose?"1 asked Robert, quickly. "Would you have given it to me? Would you have had any regard for my feelings? No; you have been to me a father, but not a friend, and while you repelled my confi- dence, wondered I did not confide in you. How could I apply to you for money, when the very word evoked bitter feelings? Oh, father I why were you not more forbearing -the slightest consideration, the smallest indulgence would have saved me from the horrors of remorse. But there is no use in referring to the past. I must do something at   ERNEST GREY.         2" once. I must see him before I take any steps towards his justification." "What steps?   By inculpating yourself?, inquired Mr. Clements, nervously. "Yes, Svro other course remains open to me," replied his son, leaving the room. "Robert," said Mr. Clements, imperatively, "I charge you proceed no further with this business until you see me in the morning."   -... The door was closed, and Mr. Clements was left once more to his own reflections.' He walked backwards and forwards in a state of painful,indecision, unable to deter- mine what line of conduct he ought to pursue. His sense of justice told him that Ernest Grey ought to be vindicated at any cost; and had the guilty party been any other than his own son, he would have insisted on an open and ample avowal; but let him reason as he would, that was the uppermost idea in his mind, and that disgrace should fall upon him was not to be thought of for a moment. Some means must be devised to atone for the injury done to Ernest Grey, without implicating him. With bitter self- reproach he reviewed his conduct towards him, and was constrained to acknowledge to himself it was but little cal- culated to inspire confidence or affection--nay, more, that, Robert's error could be traced back to it as clearly as any event to its cause; it was the root of the. evil--it was the   212    VINDICATION OF ERNEST GREY. first link in the chain. He saw, too, that his system was defective throughout, and that the discipline on which he prided himself had alienated and ruined his son. Never in the whole course of his life did he undergo such a rigid self-examination as that night, and the result was an abiding conviction that he was not privileged to "throw the first stone." In the morning he proceeded to his studycand had not been long there before Robert entered ; but how unlike the gay, thoughtless Robert of a few months ago. Days with him had done the work of years: the ever ready smile had vanished, the careless gaiety of youth was gone. "Robert," said Mr. Clements, abruptly, "leave this mat- ter in my hands. This is a case in which I and every member of my family are as deeply interested as you, for you cannot, if you would, confine the consequences of an open acknowledgment to yourself. Therefore I demand, as a reparation due to me, that you will remain passive. Ernest Grey shall be fully exculpated-that you may depend upon. It is a mere matter of justice; but I re- serve to myself the right of doing so in the manner most consonant to my own feelings." "But how, and when?" "I shall make no unnecessary delay. But understand distinctly that I do not intend to make him acquainted with the state of the case further than this: that the real   ERNEST GREY.         213 culprit is known to me, beyond the possibility of a doubt. That is all that is requisite for him to know. I insist that you repose no confidence in him, that the honor of my family be not intrusted to his keeping. This much I have a right to expect, and if you wish me to overlook that transaction, to erase it frommy memory, you will acquiesce in my views. Speak, but remember I cannot outlive dis- grace." "Do as you will, father," replied Robert. "If Ernest Grey is vindicated, I am indifferent as to the means." "Something more than mere vindication is due to him," said Mr. Clements. "You owe him reparation; but that 1 shall leave in your hands." "Father," said Robert, deeply moved by conduct so unexpected, " why were you not kind sooner, or why now? Reproach me ;-I can bear it better." "Because you are better used to it?" said Mr. Clements, interrogatively. "Well, perhaps so. ' Does your other, or Agatha know anything about this matter? They do not. It is better so. Make no allusion to it when we meet, Robert, and avoid exciting curiosity by any marked change in your manner. You will find me here this evening at eight o'clock, and then I will tell you the course I have Dursued."   CHAPTER XXIV. ERNEST GREY IN THE DOCK-WHAT HE SAYS FOR HMSELF -THE JUDGE AND MR. CLEMENTS-THE REPARATION. ANY one passing the Court House on the morning of which we write, might have conjectured that a trial of more than ordinary interest, that is, evolving a more than ordinary amount of human suffering or depravity, was progressing within its walls. And they would have been right in such a conjecture, for there is in human nature a strong love for the horrible or tragic. Whether this arises, as Burke sup- poses, from the pleasure we feel in having our sympathies exci t'e y actual or ideal objects, matters little-there is no doubt as to the existence of the feeling itself. On the morning in question the Court House was crowded to excess by an eager, excited multitude, drawn thither by this feel- ing, for a daring burglar was to receive sentence, and they were there to enjoy the horrors of the scene. The sentence was pronounced, the prisoner removed, and the crowd, inte- rested only in A No. 1 criminals, hurried out to their avocations, and endeavored, by redoubled energy, to make   ERNEST GREY.         215 up for lost time. The next case was one of grand larceny, and the accused, a man in the prime of life, was placed in the dock. As he raised his eyes to the judge, Ernest Grey-it was he-started and clanged color, for on the bench, to outward seeming cold and passionless as a statue, was the judge who had before* tried and discharged him -the man to whom he had applied for work, and by whom his application was spurned with contempt. The trial proceeded, the evidence was clear and conclu- sive; there was not a shadow of doubt as- to his guilt. The police deposed that they had seen him some nights previous, under suspicious circumstances, that he had been lurking about the haunts of depraved and evil-disposed characters, that he had passed nights in those localities, and that, the very night before he had committed the robbery in Pearl street, he had a long conversation with the notorious Dick the Burglar, and that he had'received from him a moderate sized bundle, which he conveyed to his home. There was no evidence for the defense, no attempt to rebut or discredit the testimony, and the jury, without leaving their seats, returned a unanimous verdict of guilty. Before passing sentence, the judge enquired whether the prisoner had anything to say. Ernest Grey rose in the dock and addressed the Court, his voice trembling at first, but gaining strength as he proceeded. "Yes, I have a few words to say, not for my own sake-   216    WHAT HE SAYS FOR HMSELF. they cannot affect my case; but for the sake of others who, under like circumstances, may act as I have done. I took the money; I committed the theft of which I have been found guilty; I confess it, and I ask, what mai in this Court would have done otherwise? You have heard that my wife was dying, my child starving--wat was I to do? For days I had walked the city looking for work, begging for work-your honor knows I speak the truth-as no beggar ever begged for alms, and yet I was an innocent man, guiltless in the sight of Heaven; guiltless in the eye of the law. Yes, standing here as I do, a convicted self- acknowledged thief, I declare solemnly that not a juror in the box, not the judge upon the bene, was more guiltless of that robbery than I was. "It is in evidence that I frequented the haants of the depraved after my discharge. I sought my wife and child among the poor, in miserable, under-ground hovels, in the home of wretchedness, and there I found them. Should I have sought them in Fifth Avenue or Union Square? As for 'Dick the Burglar,' I met him after I had asked charity from many a Pharisee and been refused, and he, the outcast, the Samaritan, having no fear of the world before him, no dread of contamination, forced me"-the prisoner paused in uncontrollable emotion, and passed his hand across his eyes--'to take the food he had just bought for himself. That's. the bundle of which you have heard.   HE HAD BEEN THRUST INTO THE COMMON PRISON, WHERE MEN AND BOYS OF EVERY AGE HAD BEEN GROUPED TOGETHER, I-E A          BEE THUTIT IECMfNPIOWtR ME AD O F YEYAG HDBENGOPEDTGEHR     ERNEST GREYT         217 Throughout all, my poverty has been my real crime. But for it I would not have been suspected at first; but for it I would not be guilty now. "God knows I have striven hard to keep my footing, and the outskirts of society is a slippery place to stand firm in, even in the best of times. Through cold and hunger; through wretched days and sleepless nights, I have strug- gled, and in the midst of this struggle I was flung into prison. From that moment I was a marked man; the brand of Cain was on me ; the law had touched me. What was I to do? Let those who say 'starve,' try it. It is easy to be virtuous when not tempted ; it is easy for a man to stand 'when he is propped up on every side. "At that time I applied to your Honor for work. You refused me. How, you may remember ; I never can forget. I do not mean to reproach you ; if your own' conscience is silent, it would be useless for me to speak. But this I must say-had you treated me then as a man, you would not now be condemning me as a criminal. I have done: do you pass sentence." A murmur of sympathy and applause pervaded the Court as Grey ceased speaking; but it wans speedily re- pressed, and order re-established. The Judge then pro- nounced sentence,--and Ernest Grey was condemned to two years imprisonment in the Sing Sing prison. Towards evening the Judge returned home, exhausted   218    THE JUDGE AND MR. CLEMENTS. by the harassing nature of his duties, and thinking more of Ernest Grey than he would willingly acknowledge, even to himself. He found a, gentleman awaiting his return, with a stern patience that no delay could tire out. On the entrance of the- Judge, he arose and requested a private interview, as he had an important communication to make. "My name is Clements," he said, bowing. "Perhaps you may remember it as being connected with the case of the man Grey, recently tried before you for grand larceny." "That man again," muttered the Judge; " what next? I recollect the case you allude to, perfectly," he said aloud, "for several circumstances have concurred to impress it on my memory. He was acquitted on that charge for- want of sufficient testimony, though I doubt not your suspicions were well grounded." "They were unjust," said Mr. Clements, earnestly. "Still I think not altogether unjustifiable, for appearances were against him. Nevertheless, the man is guiltless."' "How was his innocence made manifest? Did you re- cover the money?" it No. "Then you must know who perpetrated the robbery?" "Know him," said Mr. Clements, slowly, the convulsive twitching about his mouth betraying painful emotion; "yes, I know him." "His name?" inquired the Judge.   ERNEST GREY.. -        219 "I do not choose to reveal it, sir," was the quick reply "As you will, Mr. Clements," said the Judge, coldly. "It is to be regretted that you were not as-chary of Grey's reputation; but I presume the individual who is now shielded from obloquy, though guilty, is not one of your employees." "Your inference is unfair and unwarranted," replied Mr. Clements ; "and if my conscience were free from reproach in this matter, I might resent it; but let it pass. My object' in calling to you, sir, was to vindicate one, not to accuse another. I know that the man was acquitted, but I know likewise that, in some cases, the verdict of the Jury has no moral effect. Besides, I was informed, I know not how correctly, that he has been committed a second time, and I  was in hopes that my statement would have'the effect of mitigating his punishment." "If the guilty party had been less tardy in making this acknowledgment, it might have had the effect you antici- pated; but, unfortunately, Grey has been convicted to- day, and sentenced to two years imprisonment. The only- thing that can be done now is, to embody the facts of the case in a petition to the Governor, and that may obtain a  modification of his punishment. I would be glad to aid it as far as lies in my power, for I owe the unfortunate man amends for some harshness I  exhibited towards him in my private capacity. When he left prison he found himself   220    THE JJDGE AND MR. CLTEMFNTS. cast off by every one : he could obtain no employment; he was literally starving ;-at last he applied to me, and H" he, paused, realizing for the first time that it was an inno- cent man into whose bitter cup' he had infused additional bitterness.       - "And you," said Mr. Clements, eagerly lifting the thread of the discourse which the other had let drop-" you heark- ened to him." "No, sir," replied the Judge, with a slight tinge of bitterness in his manner; "I did not, for I placed more confidence in the affidavit of the accuser than the assertion of the accused, and I believed that, though you failed to prove the alleged crime, there must have been something in the man's character that justified your suspicion. Still my part in this affair, I am free to confess, has caused me more regret than any other occurrence I remember, and I do not envy the feelings of the individual, whoever he may be, that shifted the burden of his crime on the shoulders of an innocent man." "The person you allude to," said Mr. Ulements, in a voice that trembled in spite of every effort to make it firm, "knew not that another suffered for his crime, until yester- day. The moment he became aware of it, he sought me and confessed all. He would willingly have exonerated Grey at his own expense, but H" Mr. Clements stopped suddenly, fearful of betraying his secret, and glanced at the   ERNEST GREY.         221 Judge, to discover what construction he placed upon his manifest anxiety to spare the feelings of the real culprit. But he could gather nothing from the countenance before him, for the Judge was accustomed to control his feelings, and neither by word or look did he give any indication of what was passing in -his mind ; and he added, hurriedly- "Well, I undertook to arrange the matter myself." "Well satisfied, I presume, that he had been punished sufficiently through another." "No, sir," replied Mr. Clements, firmly; "very far from it; you misunderstand me, totally: I could not recall the past, but I could profit by it. I was not satisfied that the innocent should suffer for the guilty; but I was satisfied that the guilty had suffered more than enough. Did the man he unintentionally injured know the bitterness of his self-accusation and remorse, he would forgive him." "How do you intend to proceed in this matter, Mr. Clements? What are your ulterior-views?" "I shall write to Grey and inform him of all that has come to my knowledge, and carry out your suggestion relating to the petition." "As I have stated before," remarked the Judge, "I will cheerfully give my assistance towards forwarding that object, and I cannot forbear saying that I honor you, Mr. Clements, for your noble determination to repair an injury X you have inflicted, though unintentionally, I entertain no   222       THE REPARATION. doubt of your success. But do not imagine that Grey will be liberated instantly; the utmost to be expected is an abridgment of his term of cqnfinement." "That is all I look for," said Mr. Clements. "I shall do myself the honor of calling upon you in the course of a few days, to let you know how the affair progresses." 'x\    CHAPTER XXV. STEVlES VISIT TO THE PRISON-THE FATHER!S GRIEF. WHLE Mr. Clements and the Judge were conversing inI relation to Ernest Grey, he sat brooding over his troubles in the prison-cell already familiar to our readers. The idea of being separated from his family at such a time, weighed more heavily on his mind than the thought of his -long imprisonnmrent. His wife's illness too, perhaps, had ended' fatally. He repulsed the idea with all his might, but still, with the pertinacity of a presentiment, it returned, and stronger after every repulse. How else could he ac- count for not having received a message from her, were it only to say that she was better. It was his last night ifi New York for two years to come, and if to-morrow brought him no intelligence, what was he to do? In the morning he awoke, dreading that he would be removed before twelve o'clock; but one and two passed without his receiving orders for departure, and he waited, hope growing fainter every moment, for a farewell greeting, or some token that he was remembered outside the prison. D                 {r   224    STEVE'S VISIT TO THE PRISON. The sound of his own name, in accents not unfamiliar, made him start, and turning in the direction of it, he recognized the kindly countenance of Mrs. Fitzgerald. Grasping her hand until she winced under the convulsive pressure, he gazed into her face, anxious to, know the tidings she brought, but afraid to ask. "Sorry I am to see you here, Mr. Grey," she said, anx- ious to defer the evil moment, and to avoid answering his unspoken question ; " but it has been many a good man's luck before you, and will be again, I'm afeard." "How is Jane, Mrs. Fitzgerald?" he said, eagerly. "Is she better or worse? Tell me everything." "It's the sorrowful news I have to tell," she replied; "but you must bear it like a man, and not fly in the face of God." "For Heaven's sake I what do you mean?   Is she worse?" "Worse! Oh, no, but far better," said Mrs. Fitzgerald, with deep solemnity--"far better off, poor thing. She's done with trouble." "Done with 'trouble!" exclaimed Ernest, wildly: "then she must be dead." Mrs. Fitzgerald's tears fell fast, as she saw the agony of the wretched man before her, and she feared to answer. "Speak," he added, with the impatient vehemence of sorrow. "What! are you afraid to speak, and I not afraid   ERNEST -GREY.         225 to listen? But what use-I know she's dead--dead and done with trouble." "God comfort you 1" said Mrs. Fitzgerald, deeply moved. "I know it's a hard trial; but He that tempers the wind to the shorn lamb will give you strength to bear it." And unwilling that he should feel- himself an object of observa- tion, she turned aside, commiserating the stern sorrow that neither wished nor sought for sympathy. How imperfectly can we estimate the depth and intensity of any one's feelings? Who that looked on Ernest Grey as he sat, rigid and motionless, as still, and, apparently, as cold as marble, chuld have imagined the fearful struggle that was raging within? At last it was over. "Mrs. Fitzgerald," he said, rising hurriedly, and looking round to see if she was still there, "I want you to tell me everything she said or did-everything, and what she suffered, that I may understand the extent of' the sel- fishness that would wish her alive again. Did she speak of me?" "Your name was the last word in her mouth," replied Mrs. Fitzgerald; "and I think I hear her yet calling 'Ernest I Ernest I' in a way that would make your hair stand on end." "Go on," said Grey, sternly repressing every sign of emotion--" go on, and tell me all." And she did tell him all that happened from the moment ,%s   226    ST'EVS' s VISIT TO THE PRISON. Jane became aware of his arrest, until she breathed her last, and ended by exhorting him to bear up, for the sake of his motherless child. "Where is he? Why did you not bring him to see his father-perhaps it will be the last time." "I did bring him, and left him below for a little while," replied Mrs. Fitzgerald; "but I'll go for him now." -She was absent but a few minutes, but how long they seemed to Ernest Grey, as he desired, yet dreaded to see his child. Still, much as he wished to see Steve, he felt that he would rather forego that pleasure than be associ- ated in his mind with a prison and its inmates, for if not honorably remembered, he wished to be forgotten. "Where is he? I don't see him," said Steve, clinging closely to Mrs. Fitzgerald, as he looked round the cell, startled by the strange faces that met his view on every side. "Oh I here he is 1-here he is 1" "Steve I Steve!" murmured Grey, pressing him passion- ately to his heart, and bedewing his cheek with tears, the first he shed since he heard of his wife's death-" oh, Steve I where is your mother?" "She's in Heaven!" said the child, reverently, and look- ing upwards. "God bless the child 1" said Mrs. Fitzgerald. "It does one good to hear him. So she is, darling." "Don't cry, father," added Stave, anxious to soothe his   ERNEST GREY.         227 grief. "We'll go, too, when we get wings. Oh, I would like to go." "Hush I Steve." Sorrow inclines to superstition, and Ernest Grey shrank when he heard the child's wish, as if it were an omen of death. "What do you think of him, Mrs. Fitzgerald?" he 'said, turning to her. "Don't you think he looks very bad?" "He doesn't look well," was the evasive reply; "but he will by-and-bye." They were now notified that the time was up, and Ernest, embracing the child, told him he must go. "You are glad, Steve," said his father, observing how pleased he looked. "Don't you like this place?" "No; not at all-it ain't nice. Come, father, come," he said, taking him by the hand and pulling him towards the door. "I am not going, Steve. I must stop here." "You mustn't stop here any more, father. It's an ugly place. I wish my mamma was here," said poor Steve, bursting into tears, "and she'd make you come." "Oh! Stevey-what are you saying?" said Mrs. Fitz- gerald, frightened at the effect his artless expression had on Grey. "Well, don't let my father stay." Mrs. Fitzgerald shook her head.   228      THE FATHER'S GRIEF. "Don't you let him," said Steve, entreatingly, to the Keeper. "You make him come." "Here's a go!" said the man, softening as he thought of his own children. "I'm blest, but I'd like to, but I can't do it, my little man." "If I was a big man," replied Steve, "I'd make him." Come here, my son," said Ernest, calmly, "and listen to me. I am going away for a long time, Steve; but when I come back I'll go home with you. Won't that do? and you'll be a good child while I'm away; and if I should never see you again, my boy," Ernest paused abruptly, for his voice faltered-"God bless you, Steve! Now go." "I'll stay with you," cried Steve, grasping him tightly by the arm. "I'd rather stay. Do let me, father." "Take him away, Mrs. Fitzgerald, I beg," said Ernest, in a voice husky with emotion--" take him away. I won't ask you to be kind to him; but the conviction that you will, is my only consolation." "Don't fret about him," she replied. "Kind to him I why, then, indeed, I will. Who (could be inything else? And keep up your spirits, Mr. X rey, and remember that you have your child to live for. God be with you!"   -- ;  ! .. Lifting Steve in her arms, she retreated hastily, lest   ERNEST GREY.         229 the sound of his grief might add to his father's, and endeavored, by caresses and argument, to soothe him into quiet. But it was long ere she succeeded, for the sensi- tive child was deeply impressed with the horrors of the prison, and could not be reconciled to the idea of leaving his father behind.   C HAPTER XXVI ERNEST GREY IN SING SING--THE BRUTAL KEEPER-CRUEL TREATMENT OF FRANK HLL-THE SHOWER BATH. WHEN Ernest Grey reached the prison that was to be his abode for the next two years, he expected that here at least he would be permitted to enjoy the luxury of solitude. But he soon found that, though there were separate cells for the convicts, and though the same inequality in vice prevailed here as in the elementary prisons, the communica- tion was constant and uninterrupted. The man convicted of larceny associated with burglars and highway robbers, until he scorned his petty vices, and longed for an opportu- nity to soar above what he was, and signalize himself as they had done. Human nature never stands still; if it does not progress, it retrogrades, and this holds good in a prison as well as in the world, for it is the same everywhere, subject to the same influences, and liable to be rendered sullen and dogged by harsh treatment, whether in the pent- up cell of a prison, or the privacy of home. As soon as Ernest Grey appeared among the prisoners,   ERNEST GREY.         231 he was recognized by several of them who had been in the Tombs while he was awaiting his trial. In happier times this would have mortified him exceedingly, but what did it matter to him now? he had sunk too low to rise, and but for Steve's sake, he had lost all desire. "You're getting on famously," said one, slapping him on the shoulder, when the keeper left the room. "Far enough 'to get a new name, or a new number. What is your number? Don't know. Well, you will soon. What did you do this time?-same old thing-eh? stealing-pah l Why didn't you try a higher branch?" "He ain't puffed up with his promotion," remarked another, "I don't think. He looks glum enough to sour a barrel of beer. Leave him be, and come here: I want to know all about that last scrape you was in." And Ernest Grey was left to himself for several days, and moved mechanically from his cell to the workshop, from the workshop to the dining hall, as he was ordered, and worked and ate, and drank, and retired to rest, and rose again at stated hours, with an indifference that amounted to apathy. But gradually he became interested in what was passing around him, and felt himself irresistibly at- tracted towards one of his fellow-prisoners, a mild-looking youth of not more than eighteen summers. Froft him he learned that there existed a very general feeling of dissatis- faction among the prisoners, which might manifest itself at   232      THE BRUTAL KEEPER. any moment. It was attributable mainly to the harshness of one of the keepers, whose domineering temper, and habit of inflicting punishment for slight offences, rendered him generally obnoxious. Coercion was his only recognized reformatory agent, and any other way of dealing with con- victs he considered unpardonable weakness. He had heard much of the softening influence of kindness, but did not believe in it: vigorous measures were his Alpha and Omega, and fear the only principle he would appeal to. His favor- ite phrase, " rule them with a rod Of iron," was the key to his character, and presented a condensed summary of his opinions on the important subject of prison management. This keeper seemed to have an especial antipathy to Grey's friend, Frank Hill, and took advantage of every opportunity to annoy him. The slightest infraction of the rules which, in a favorite, he would have passed over, or pretended not to observe, was in his case visited with con- dign punishment. Inadvertence or ignorance was no ex- cuse, and the mere fact of speaking in self-defense was an aggravation of the original crime. In short, he was one of those petty tyrants, whose pranks before high Heaven make even angels weep. The prisoners he looked upon as beings of another nature, made probably by some inferior Deity, or Journeyman Creator, and fit only to be knocked down like ten-pins for his amusement. As a means of dis- pelling ennui they were invaluable, and for spleen they were   ERNEST GREY.         233 the "sovereignest thing on earth ;" but as fellow-creatures committed to his care, for whom he was responsible, as human beings who might be brutalized, or improved by his example, as men before whom, as before himself, lay the fearful doom, or glorious prospect of immortality, or as Christians redeemed by the blood of the same Saviour, they were never thought of. Ernest Grey and Frank Hill were placed in the same workshop, and had frequent opportunities of conversing during the absence of the keeper. In one of these conver- sations, Ernest learned that his young companion was con- victed on a charge of passing counterfeit bills. "Did you know them   to be counterfeits?" inquired Ernest. "No; I received them from a stranger, in exchange for a larger bill, and as I could give no clue to the person from whom I got them, and as I had more in my possession, I was found guilty and sent up here. From the first moment I entered, Keeper Smith took a dislike to me, and I to him. The second day, he ordered me to go to work; but I re- fused, for I was so sick that I could not stand, and for that I was showered." "So, I caught you 1" exclaimed the keeper, entering with a cat-like tread-" talking again. Your tongue's too loose, I guess. We'll fix it for you-we'll shower you. Come! strip, strip, I say."   234   CRUEL TREATMENT OF FRANK HTTTT.,. "He'll kill me," said the poor fellow, turning to Ernest with a despairing look. "D-zn you!" said Smith, striking him in the face with. his clenched, fist-" you're not worth killing. Come along. You won't-eh? Well see who's going to have the upper hand here." With one blow he felled him to the ground; and then beat -him unmercifully with a club, repeating at every stroke-"we'll see who's going to have the upper hand here." "For Heaven's sake don't kill him 1" exclaimed Grey, catching Smith's hand to arrest the Blow. "He has done nothing wrong." "Hasn't he, indeed," said the keeper, turning ferociously on Ernest, and pouring on him a volley of abuse mingled with oaths. "Who are you that knows so well? -Take that I and that I and that I for your interference"-at each repetition dealing Grey a heavy blow. "I'll teach you to interfere again. To the bath with you, too." Grey put down his work, and stood ready to accompany the Keeper, who was always present at the showerings. "Haven't you a word to say for yourself?" said Smith, tauntingly, " or is it only for other folks you do the talk- ing--eh? "I have a few words to say, but they are not my own," said Grey, emphatically.   ERNEST GREY.         235 "Got somebody to talk for you?" said he, laughing boisterously. "Well. Ila! What are you doing? Quiet, I say." This was addressed to Hill, who attempted to rise. Flinging him back again, he planted one foot heavily upon his chest, and. told Grey to "out with it." "Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.}" . The convicts, between forty and fifty in number, started and glanced hastily at Smith, to note the- effect of that divine axiom, which contains the essence of practical Chris-  tianity, thus boldly and- solemnly uttered by one of them- selves. Smith grew livid with rage, and springing on Grey, beat him about the head and. shoulders with his club until he was tired; then calling the under-keepers, he had both of them dragged by the legs, across the stone floor, to the bath. The shower-bath was his favorite mode of -punishment, and the depraved ingenuity of man has seldom hit upon a more fiendish torture. Any one who can remember the effect produced on himself by the inadvertent sprinkling of a few drops of cold'water, the feeling of strangulation that made him gasp for breath, will understand the extreme severity of this punishment, particularly when the victim cannot change his position, but stands with head thrown back to receive the full force of the shock. Smith stood by to see that all was correct, and to give   236       THE SHOWER BATH. directions as to the amount of water to be used, and the manner in which it was to be precipitated. "Let them have five barrels," he exclaimed, vindictively. "Not a quart less, and stay-plenty of ice-no stint, my men--plenty-do you hear?" The order was cheerfully obeyed, for the under-keepers were men of his own stamp. Lumps of ice were liberally distributed, and the immense mass of water was poured in a continuous flood-an overwhelming deluge on the up- turned faces of the shrinking victims. The drowning wretch flung amid foaming breakers, could comprehend what they suffered, and he alone. Stunned, insensible, dead to all consciousness, save that of pain, they writhed convulsively, unable to avoid or deaden the shock, while the blood flowed from the bruises on their faces and necks, produced' by the acute angles of the jagged ice. In this condition they were again beset by Smith and his under- lings, and badly beaten, then locked up in their cells with- out being permitted to change their wet clothes, and left there for two days, without food or medical attendance.   CHAPTER XXVII. THE DRUNKEN OFFICIAL-THE CAT-OS-NINE TAILS-'NO. "5--sSHOOTING A PRISONER-THE YOKE. "BRAVO!" said one of the convicts, exultingly, shutting the door, however;, carefully before he spoke. "Bravo I we can do as we like to-day: Smith's drunk! ain't that good news?" "First-rate," was the universal reply. "Is he coming?"' "Yes.; but he'll soon fall asleep. He's primed, I tell you.  Hush 1 here he is." An uncertain step approached the door, then a hand fumbled with the lock, and after a considerable time thus spent, Smith entered, with a ludicrous assumption of digni- fied sobriety. He perambulated the room  in a zigzag manner, exhibiting a  dexterity in balancing himself that would have done credit to-a rope dancer, and after examin- ing the work with all the importance of a drunken man, he sat down in his easy chair, and was soon fast asleep. "Well, Frank," said Ernest, in a whisper, "how do you feel?",   238      THE CAT-O-NINE TAILS. "Bad, bad. These strong measures will soon set me free," he replied, in a tone of despondent bitterness, sad in one so young. "Another showering will kill me." "How would you have liked the cat?" inquired one of the prisoners who overheard him. "I have seen a man flogged with it until his flesh flew off like husks of corn when threshed. Yes, sir," he added, emphatically, observ- ing their incredulity; "I saw it myself, and in this very prison, too; and what did they do then, do you think?- they soaked him in brine."  "By the ---I you're going it too strong, Seventy," exclaimed another; "but you can't come, that over me, no how; I ain't so green as to swallow that." "Not green," retorted the first speaker; "when were you up first?" "Six years ago, and better."  "Pah i" was the contemptuous reply; "what do; ou know about prisons? You're as green as a leek. It hap- pened in this prison, I tell you, ten tears ago, before show- ering came in. He had a bath of his own blood, and he jumped and splashed about in it like a madman, hollering all the time., I was spattered all over with blood and lumpsof. flesh, and I. got a -few licks of the rope myself, because I put my fingers in my ears that I mightn't hear his horrible cries. It was awful. They kept at him- that man there," pointing to the sleeper, "cursing them   ERNEST GREY.         239 when they lagged for a minute-aye, for more than an hour-taking turns, two at a time each side of him. For two days running they tortured him; but at last, poor fellow, he slipt through their hands and died." "What was he flogged for?" asked Frank. "Because he disturbed their sleep by singing through the night-he was crazy." "What keeps us from killing him?" exclaimed one, fiercely. "The murderer I he ought to be strangled. I'd kill him with as little compunction as I would a rat." And he advanced, as if to put his threat into execution. "Would you make yourself as bad as him?" said Ernest Grey, holding himn back with: a firm grasp--" put yourself below his level? If not, don't murder a sleeping man." "A man!" repeated the other, indignantly-" do you call him a man?  He's not human; .he's a wretchl -a fiend I a devil 1I- It would be a good deed to kill him." "But he's not fit to die," said Frank "Is he fit to live?"  . "Let Him decide who can give life," replied Ernest. "With that we have nothing to do. Let him live his hour; he will be summoned when wanted*" Muttering his dissatisfaction, the man went to his seat, but could not forbear stopping, as he passed the sleeping tyrant, to give vent to his feelings. Uttering sundry fear- ful imprecations, he shook his clenched fist in his face, and   240         NO. 47-5.- swore he should not escape, that he would revenge himself and others before he left the prison. Smith, who was not as drunk as usual, was roused by the loud, threatening tones so close to him, and starting up, caught No. 475 by the collar. "You skulking scoundrel i" he said, shaking him roughly; "what are you doing here? Why ain't you at work? I'll teach you to be idling when my back's turned." He left the room, but returned almost immediately, ac- companied by another keeper, bearing between them an iron yoke weighing about fifty pounds. No. 475 knew at once for whom it was intended, and determined to resist. The two keepers seized him, but he was a strong, powerful man, and flinging them from him with a vigorous effort, he placed himself firmly against the wall, and awaited another attack. Again they tried to capture him, and again they were re- pulsed; the man appeared to be endowed with the strength of a giant-all his evil passions were aroused; he cursed and blasphemed, and swore by everything sacred that he would not be taken alive, that he would rather die than submit to be punished without a cause. The two keepers seeing ther authority thus daringly contemned, and them- selves openly bearded by one of their slaves, and that, too, in presence of the rest, were infuriated beyond all bounds. Smith seized his club, which lay on the floor beside him, and struck right and left, caring not whom he injured.   ERNEST GREY.         241 Still they could not succeed, for the prisoner had got hold of a chair, and with it kept them at bay, whirling it from side to side incessantly, and describing a wide semi-circle at every sweep. "Call in the guards!" roared Smith, in a paroxysm of fury, "and shoot him down. Do you give in?" he said, addressingthe mutinous convict. "Never!-die first," shouted the man, now as excited as his tormentor. "Won't you, indeed!" said the other keeper. "We'll try that, my fine fellow. We'll soon see who'll tire first," again endeavoring to reach him with the club. By this time the guards entered, guns in hand, and rang- ing themselves opposite No. 475, stood ready, waiting the orders to fire. Pete, make him drop that chair; and Bill, you shoot low, and take him down" The guards fired at random, and failed, for he kept con- stantly shifting his position. Cursing their blundering stu- pidity, Smith ordered themi to fire again, and make sure work of it this time. They fired, and successfully, and before the smoke had cleared away, No. 4t5 lay like a log upon the floor, his arm and leg shattered by the discharge. In a moment he was surrounded and bound, though his condition rendered the precaution as unnecessary as it was cruel, and hurried to his cell without the least consideration   242      SHOOTING A PRISONER, for his sufferings. Not a murmur, not a sigh escaped him throughout; he bore all with a stoical fortitude. that dis- dained complaint, glaring at his captors with looks of inex- tinguishable hatred. Some of the prisoners appeared as -indifferent tpowhat was passing as stocks or stones; but there was one among them whose agitation was' pitiable in the extreme. Before his imprisonment, Frank Hill was a universal favorite among his'companions, on account of a gentleness of dis- position which would rather yield ten points than assert one. But now this amiable weakness degenerated into morbid terror, for his nerves, never strong, had been un- strung by the sufferings he had endured, and the. scenes of cruelty he had witnessed in the prison. During the incident we have described, his emotionrs were of the most painful nature, and when the unfortunate con- temner. of delegated power fell a victim to it, they had reached a pitch that defied restraint. "Control yourself," whispered Grey, anxiously. "Smith is observing you." Shaking with fear, Frank resumed his work, and- en- deavored to conquer his emotion. He had partially suc- ceeded, when, raising his eyes, he saw Smith close by his side, watching him with lynx-eyed vigilance. In his trepid- ation, the heavy tool with which- he was working- dropped from his nerveless grasp, and fell heavily upon the keeper's   ERNEST GRBY.         243 foot. Far less would have sufficed to arouse him in his gentlest mood; but now, when, his vindictive feelings were unnaturally excited, he grasped eagerly at the first chance. Hill was immediately ordered for, punishment-the iron yoke before referred to was put upon his neck, and his arms stretched upon it, wide apairt. Being a delicate youth, he would have sunk under the weight; this Smith knew, and to avoid it a rope was fastened round his body, and passed over a beam. This held him up, but did not diminish the crushing weight that rested on his shoulders- nor abate the pain caused by the unnatural extension of the arms. In this painful position he remained for hours with- out respite, save what was gained by a few moments uncon- sciousness. At last he was released, but the inhumian punishment had been so disproportioned to his strength, that ,he sunk under it, and the keeper was .reluctantly obliged to send him to the hospital. He was well aware that his treatment of one whose docility was known to all in the work-room, had outraged the feelings of the most hard- ened among them, and this made him still more watchful. If his surveillance was strict before, it was doubly so now: he seemed to have the hundred eyes of Argus; nothing could escape him, not even a look was suffered to pass unnoticed.  His attention was especially directed to Ernest Grey, but Ernest was on his guard, and though his sympathy for the sufferer was painfully acute, he checked   244         THE YOKE. all outward manifestations of it, lest he might afford the petty despot an opportunity of displaying his illegal cruelty on him. The hour for stopping work arrived at length; the convicts sought their separate cells, and with a feeling of relief and thankfulness, Ernest heard the key turn in the lock of his door, and-felt that he was alone.   CHAPTER XXVIII. THE COUSIN'S STRATAGEM-THE ADOPTED CHLD.-THE SECRET. "I AM tired of drawing," said Emily, throwing down her pencil, " for I find all my exertions will never make me an artist, and I hate -respectable mediocrity. How could Hogarth be so stupid as to say that 'genius is nothing but industry.  Who could be more industrious than I have been? and if I saw any prospect of ultimate success, I would still persevere, but to blod on and on, and make no progress--it's too bad. I'll abjure the pencil and the palette forever." "I doubt it," said Agatha. "I have heard you say so a hundred times before, and y6u are invariably more ener- getic after these ebullitions."  "We shall see. However, I may blame you for my failure to-day, Agatha, for I have been-thinking of you to the exclusion of every other idea. Will you answer me one question truly?"    \ "Certainly truly, or not a all."   26 -     THE COUSIN  'STRATAGEM. "What have you done to Mr. Hamilton?" "I!" exclaimed Agatha, in astonishment. "Nothing." "Well, what has he done to you?" "t Nothing." "Then why are you so changed in your manner to him? I never thought you were capricious before, Agatha. There surely must be some cause. You used to treat him as a valued friend, but now when he enters the room, you leave it on any, or no pretence. Have you heard anything that lessfcs him in your estimation?" "Set your mind at ease, Emily; I have heard nothing of the kind. You can cherish your admiration of Mr. Hamilton without scruple, for he is as deserving of it now as he ever was." Emily's eyes were twinkling with merry mischief as she glanced at her cousin, and, a provoking reply hovered on her tongue ; but suddenly a new idea struck her, and she paused abruptly. . Collecting her drawing -materials, she arranged them in their appropriate place, put her unfinished sketch in her portfolio, and took a seat beside her cousin. "Agatha," she said, with unusual seriousness, "I am really glad to hear that the high opinion you always enter- tained of Mr. Hamilton is unchanged-glad of it on account of a friend who takes a deep interest in him." Agatha started, andc changed color. "What do you mean, Emily?" she inquired, quickly.   ERNEST GREY.         247 "I mean that a dear friend of mine has a high, if not an exaggerated opinion of Mr. Hamilton's merits, and I am sincerely glad, for her sake, that he is deserving of it." "Does she'love Mr. Hamilton, Emily?' "Love him, did you say? Well, Agatha, that's the very thing I want to make out. I think she does, but as to his feelings I have no doubt whatever." "Then you think-'   Agatha paused,. afraid to trust herself to speak, for her voice faltered, despite every effort. But her's-was not a mind to expose her feelings, or give way to emotion, without a struggle. "The perfume of flowers in a heated apartment always overpowers me," she observed, removing a vase, filled with exquisite exotics, to the farthest part of the room. "Now they are in the very niche they were designed to fill, and that is' more than can be said for many human beings;" Resuming her seat as calmly asif nothing unpleasant had, transpired, she voluntarily returned to the subject. "You think Mr. Hamilton loves the young lady you spoke of, Emily?" she said, in an indifferent tone. "Yes, but you will not put much faith in my penetra- tion, Agatha, when I tell you that I have often thought of late he was in love with you. Nay, if- you look so morti- fied, I retract that at once." "Mortified," thought Agatha, "to be the object of his love! Oh, no; but the object of his pity, never, never." $                  1 - ' , J   248     THE COUSIN'S STRATAGEM. "Now, I wouldn't be mortified if all the people in New York thought Mr. Hamilton was infatuated about me," said Emily; " and why are you so fastidious? I hope you don't consider Mr. Hamilton too old to be an admirer of yours, and he not thirty-five. 'You won't see many like him at a horse-race in the country,' Agatha ; I can promise you that." "You are addressing the wrong person in Mr. Hamilton's behalf, Emily-,are you not?' "True, true; but you are so like her, Agatha, that I quite forgot." "Who is she?  Do I know her?" inquired Agathla, eagerly. "As to knowing her I can't exactly say, for I question does she know herself; but I can show you her likeness. Wait for a moment; I have got it in my room." As soon as the restraint her cousin's presence imposed on her was removed, Agatha Clements gave way to her over-wrought feelings, and -burying her face iniher hands, as if to close out the light of 4day, wept long and quietly. A slight noise made her spring from her seat, and the first object that met her view was Mr. Hamilton standing in the middle of the room, the very picture of surprise and aston- ishment. "Miss Clements, you are ill!" he exclaimed, anxiously, attempting to detain her as he spoke.   EBNBST ORI.         ;249 "No, no; I am quite well," said Agatha, passing him rapidly, in order to gain the shelter of her -own room. Once in it, she felt secure from intrusion, for she knew no one would seek her there but-Emily. However, feeling unequal to the task of meeting even her while her mind was in a tumult, she locked the door and sat down, not to give vent to her feelings, but to take herself to task for having indulged them. Her meditations were soon broken by Emily, who came running up in a great hurry, to say that Mr. Clements wanted her immediately. "I verily believe you have locked yourself in," she said, shaking the door briskly. "By-the-bye, Mr. Hamil- ton is below with your father. Shall I wait for you, Agatha?" "Oh, no ; I shall, be down presently." "I have got the miniature. Have you no curiosity to see it?" No answer. "Agatha, would you- like to see the miniature?" she inquired, in a louder key. "To-night, Emily: not now--I have not time." "Very well; as you will," said Emily, hurrying down stairs as quickly as she came up. Agatha bathed her eyes to remove all traces of tears, and when she succeeded to her own satisfaction, joined the party below. "I was telling -your mother that I intend bringing a    250       THE ADOPTEDD CHLD. stranger here to be domesticated among us, and that I wish he should feel himself thoroughly at home." '"Very well, father ; we shall endeavor to make him feel so."  "It is a child I have adopted." "A child i" screamed Mrs. Clements, horrified. "Mercy on me I what shall I do? Why, Mr. Clements, it's not possible, you have been so inconsiderate I A child I Good gracious t was there ever anything so horrible. Oh, my poor head I But you do not mean it, Mr. Clements -of course, it's only a jest. How silly of me to be alarmed." "I amn not much in the habit of perpetrating jests, Maria, nor do I feel in a jocular mood'at the present mo- ment," replied Mr. Clements, gravely. "I really mean what I say.. The child is bright and intelligent, and I am sure you will like it; and I intend that whatever natural talents it may possess, shall be fully developed. Hamilton has seen the child." "A  very fine, interesting boy he is," observed Mr. Hamilton. "A boy!" exclaimed the indignant lady. "Oh I really it is too bad-the patience of a saint would give way under such an infliction,--racing about and whooping like a wild Indian-and I in such miserable health. I shall have a nervous fevcr--I know I shall, for I never could endure excitement-my system is too much shattered."   ERNEST GREY*         251 "Dear apnt!" said Emily, in her most insinuating man- ner, "Mrs. Wilson has two or three boys,-rude boys, too, --constantly in the house, and it does not injure her con- stitution." "What analogy is there -between Mrs. Wilson's case and mine, Emily?" inquired Mrs. Clements, highy offended at the comparison. "Compared with mine, her health is actually robust." "But she is affected as you are." "By no means," said Mrs. Clements,- decisively. "6 Very far from it. Affected like me I Why, her disease is nerv- ousness in its simplest form ; what any medical practitioner of a few months' standing could comprehend, and mine is so complicated that it would " "Puzzle Hippocrates," suggested Mr. Clements, observ- ing that she was at a loss for a strong expression. "Exactly so. Mrs. Wilson, indeed I Really, Emily, I am surprised. I know Mrs. Wilson is delicate, and I would be sorry to say otherwise-indeed, I would be the very last person to deny it, but I must say that she could better bear the noise of ten boys than I could that of one." "If the boy annoys you, he shall be sent to school," said Mr. Clements. "School," she repeated, impatiently-" schools have va- cations, and then he will return twice as wild, on account of -having been restrained."   252      THE ADOPTED CHLD. $' Well, if you prefer it, we will keep him home, and have him instructed here. You can arrange that to your own satisfaction." "No, no, Mr. Clements; you can have your own way, of course, as usual. Do as you please with the boy. he may be noisy, or turbulent-indeed, I expect no less--boys are naturally po, the very best of them; still-" MAirs. Clements paused, but the expression of placid fortitude her features wore, filled up the hiatus satisfactorily. On the whole, the prospect of a standing grievance was not un- pleasanto "What's the child's name, father?' inquired Agatha. "You have not mentioned it." "Have I not?  Stephen Grey." "The name is pretty enough," said Emily; " but what is the child like? Describe him, -Mr. Hamilton, and begin with his eyes--what color?1" "Dark grey, and wonderfully expressive-the very shade of Miss Clements'." "'eon'my honor! I believe they are,? said Mr. Clements, surprised; " though I did not observe them closely at the time. Look this way, Agatha: vou are quite right, Ham- ilton. I did not think you were so observing--at least, I did not think you took notice of such trifles." "The bard that wore the black gown advises us to give our time to trifles," said Emily; "and I am glad to see   ERNEST GREY.         253 that Mr. Hamilton profits by such an eminent example, for he says, very truly, that trifles make up life." "Mr. Clements," said his wife, hurriedly, as if the idea had just then struck her, " has the child you spoke of any relatives living? What class of persons are theyP?" "They are very poor. The father was in my employ- ment; the mother is dead. You need not fear being annoyed with people coming to see the child-there is no danger of that." "I hope so," said Mrs. Clements; "but I am not too sanguine on that point, for I have always observed that poor people are never satisfied with hearing of their chil- dren's welfare-they want. to see them, as if that could benefit either." "They are not utilitarians," said Mr. Clements: " that accounts for it." "'When will this child arrive?" she inquired, as if she' did not care how soon the sacrificial rites commenced, but was rather willing to be a victim. "I shall bring him here in half an hour. Hamilton, don't stir until I come back. The books you want are in my Library." As her father left the room, Agatha followed out, under pretence of having forgotten something she wished to say, and returned no more. Emily saw through the pretence at once, and felt annoyed on Mr. Hamilton's account, for   254         THE SECRET. he appeared chagrined and mortified at her determined avoidance of him. In order to provide herself with a subject for conversation, she resumed her drawing, and requested him to examine and criticize it for her. * I am but a tyro, Miss' North," he replied ; "and I could not presume to- exercise the functions of a critic." "Nonsense I Mr. Hamilton ; you can ' talk of Raphaels, Corregios and stuff,' as well as any one; and what more is necessary to constitute a critic?' "Love of it, and that essential I do not possess, for Sterne never hated the cant of criticism more than I do. I am satisfied to admire, and this"--taking a landscape from the portfolio-" is really beautiful. These piled-up, cumulous clouds, tinged with the rays of the setting sun, and these masses of wavy, aut/tmnal foliage, through which the breeze seems to be passing, defy my criticism. I had no idea you were such a proficient in 'the art that can immortalize.' " "I suppose not, Mr. Hamilton. I am  one of those unfortunate individuals whose merits are never recognized until too late. The world will never do me justice, I fear: there must be some fatality about me, else why should you, having that well-filled portfolio before you, select the'very one, the only one in it I did not paint? That's Agatha's, and I won't have it there any longer shaming my humble efforts. Will you take it out of my sight, Mr. Hamilton?"   ERNEST GREY         255 "Do you really mean to give it to me, Miss North?" "Certainly I do, if you will accept it." "If!" -exclaimed MSr. Hamilton ; then checking himself, he added, quietly--" what would Miss Clements say?", "She will know nothing of it; it will be a secret between you and -me." "Is it the only secret -of mine in your keeping, Miss North?5' he asked, significantly. "I am not aware that you ever intrusted me with one," she replied. "Would that I had an opportunity of doing so now," said Mr. Hamilton, earnestly. "Well, what prevents you taking advantage of the present moment?" replied Emily, anxious to know if -she was right in her conjecture as to the state of his mind. "You may speak here without fear of being overheard, for my aunt is so absorbed in her book that, if you had the lungs of a stentor, you could not distract her attention. She is deep in the woes of some Rosalie, or Adeline." Lowering his voice, to prevent all possibility of being overheard, Mr. Hamilton. confided to his highly-gratified listener the story of his love for Agatha, passing over the scene in the ball-room, but - dwelling long upon her studied avoidance of him. "And now, Miss Nporth," he said, st the conclusion of his confession, "will you make an opportunity for me to see   256--        THE -SECRET. your cousin in private-unless you assist me I can never succeed." "I will tell her you wish for a private interview, and, of course, she will grant it." It would be useless ; she would refuse," said Mr. Hamilton. "If I cannot see her without a formal request, I may abandon the idea altogether. I did think, Miss North, I imight count on your friendship." i"And so you may, Mr. Hamilton; but Agatha is not a Lydia Languish, whom it is necessary to approach by a circuitous route. However, I presume you have only con- fided in me partially-just what was indispensible towards procuring my co-operation." "Nay, I have concealed nothing that related to myself alone," replied Mr. Hamilton, with a sincerity that enforced credence. "I do not believe in half-confidence-unreserved trust, or none at all." "Where is the second volume of this book, Emily?" inquired Mrs. Clements, laying the one she had just finished on the table. Will you-get it for me?" "This looks like it," said Emily, passing it to her. "Are you going, Mr. Hamilton, before my uncle returns?" "I would rather not see him yet, and as he is more than half an hour away, he will not be surprised at my absence. Remember, I trust to you, .Miss North, implicitly, both as to the how and the when. Excuse me if I ask one imperti-   ERNEST GREY,         257 nent question-why was Miss Clements weeping when I came in? I hope she is not ill." "Weeping I Are you certain she was weeping?" said Emily, unable to suppress a transient smile. "Ah, yes, I remember now, perfectly. Believe me, you have no cause for alarm ; she is quite well. Hold yourself in readiness for a summons at any moment." "So she was weeping," soliloquized Emily, when the door closed on Mr. Hamilton. "I am very glad to hear it: now I know my grouqd, Miss Agatha."  m-7   CHAPTER XXIX. AN EVENING AT LIZZY ROBERTS---THE BRIGHT FIRE AND ITS REWARD-POVERTY AS A MORAL AGENT-GOING TO BE MARRIED. RICHARD KANE, though fully determined to see his unfortu- nate friend the following morning, was obliged, by unfore- seen circumstances, to defer his visit to the prison for two successive days. He had been sent by his employer some miles away, to finish a job, and although he had no idea Grey's trial was at hand, he started with evident reluctance. As soon as he returned he hastened to the prison, and learned all that had occurred during hiss absence--the trial, the sentence, and the subsequent removal to Sing Sing. The only course that now remained open to him was to write to Ernest, to tell him all he had suffered, -and entreat his forgiveness. This he did at once, and with a mind. lightened of half his burden, set out for Short's alley, where he found Lizzy and Margaret at their usual occupation, and was warmly welcomed by both. He was so pleased with his new acquaintances that he    ERNEST GREY.         259 called again and again,' and at last his visits became so frequent, that they were regarded as a matter of course. Every evening he was looked for, as if he were. a member of the family, and when anything occurred to prevent his daily visit, it was a source of regret to more than him. "We had better get our tea, Liz; Richard will not be here to-night," said Margaret, proceeding to arrange the simple board.  "Don't you think two cups look lonely?"  "Yes; it looks as if we didn't' expect him, and that makes the place appear dull. But wait a little, Margaret, he may come yet.               " "I think I hear his evening step upon the stairs," said Margaret, as the sound of an ascending footstep became audible within the room. "Yes, here he comes." "Yes, here I come. How comfortable you look," said Richard, drawing his chair to the fire, and rubbing his hands before it, as if he enjoyed the heat. "I always think the fire burns brighter and pleasanter here than anywhere else, though the stove is cracked. I don't know how it is; I suppose-you have got the knack of it:" "The talent for it, you mean. Do you know the glorious reward reserved for women possessing that talent you speak so lightly of, Mr. Kane?" "No, Miss Linwood," replied Richard, ceremoniously; "but I am anxious to be informed."   260   THE BRIGHT FIRE AND ITS REWARD. "Any woman that can make a clear fire will be sure to get a good-tempered husband." "Isn't that good pay?" said Lizzy, laughing. "I don't know," said Richard, doubtingly'; "that. de- pends upon circumstances. Prompt pay is good pav, but Margaret didn't specify anything about time. When is she to get it, Margaret?"' "As soon as she can," replied Margaret, laughing. "Oh, ho!" said Richard, "that's another view of the question; that changes it altogether. At first the promise was positive, and now you make it conditional, updn some- thing that wasn't heard of before. That's not fair, Mar- garet. Didn't you say that she that made a good fire would get a good husband? "Yes, if she got any."  ' "Oh I what a miserable back-down,' exclaimed Richard. "You ought to be ashamed of yourself. So your promise of a good thsband means nothing more than being saved from a bad one. What do you think of the pay now, Lizzy?-prices are falling." "And no certainty of being paid," she replied. "But that should make you contented, fot if -you're not paid you run no risk of getting bad bills." "Come over to your tea," said Margaret; "that is, if you can leave that fire." "It's a good fire," said Richard, taking his seat at the   ERNEST- GREY.        261 table-" an extra good one, and I think the person that made-it deserves the best-tempered fellow I know, and that is-guess, Lizzy-who do you think?" "I hope it 'As nobody worse than yourself," whispered Margaret. Richard's meaning smile satisfied her on that point. "Guess, Lizzy," he repeated. Lizzy shook her head, and couldn't guess. "Myself," said Richard. "Just take me for -better for worse, for I am the best-tempered fellow in the world, -though I say it that shouldn't say it. It takes more than a little to put me in bad temper, Lizzy." "Could I put you in it if I tried hard?" "Yes; one word from you would put me in bad temp e at a minute's warning." "-What word?" asked Liezy, curiously. ' 'No,' when I want you to say ' yes.:" "Would it?-then I'll be sure not to say lt," she re- plied, laughingly, "for I wouldn't like to see you in bad temper." Richard put down his untasted cup of tea, and half rose- from his seat but one glance of those soft dove-like eyes- those portals through which a glimpse could be -obtained of the pare, ingenuous soul within, changed his resolution, and he resumed his seat. "Very good!" he said, less in jest .than earnest. "It's   262   THE BRIGHT FIRE AND ITS REWARD. a promise, and I'll recall it to your memory one of these days."   ' "Did you receive an answer to that letter you sent to Sing Sing?" said Margaret, desirous of changing the con- :versation: "Not a line," replied Richard. "Perhaps they wouldn't let him write. It may be against the rules, for aught I know. I heard a rumor some time ago that he was going to be pardoned, but I don't know whether to believe it or not." "It's quite true," said Lizzy ; "Miss Clements told us so to day. Mr. Clements and several other wealthy men have interested themselves about him, and he is to be pardoned ot at the end of six months." Good! good!" cried Richard, slapping his hands with the unrestrained glee of a school-boy-" that's-what I call good news. Does he know-about Steve?I "Yes ; Mr. Clements wrote to him immediately after he was sent up," replied Lizzy. During the conversation the business of the tea-table progressed; the amber liquid flowed freely from the rigid, unbending spout of the tin tea-pot; the milk-pitcher and sugar-basin yielded up their saccharine and lacteal contents as accessories to the steaming fluid, and cups were replen- ished and emptied more than once. "Any more demands on me,'" inqdired Margaret, who   ERNEST GREY.          263 presided at the table-" before I remove our darling china         r       .. None being made, the tea-things'were removed, and the table littered with spools, scissors, thimbles and muslin, preparatory to a few hours' work. They do not intend to sit up late-it-is not necessary, for they are not now work- ing for stores, nor do they receive store prices. One glance at the room would prove the last fact, for this is not the attic in which we last saw them ; it is hlrger,-and airier, and has no skylight in .the roof; but then, as an offset; it has two decent sized windows, through which the moonlight streams in soft and white upon the "floor swept with a woman's neatness."  Chairs are there too, sound and per- fect in every limb-veritable quadrupedal chairs, and'a table, marvelously intact, with wings expanded on. each side,' gives an appearance of factitious fullness to the apart- ment. Nor must we forget the stove, the crowning glory of the whole, diffusing light and heat and pleasantness around, nor the tiny looking-glass suspended on- the wall, nor the market-basket occupying a conspicuous position on the half-press that served as a supplementary table; nor the fire-board, with its picturesque cottage embowered in the greenest of trees., "Now, Richard, if you had a -book to read to us," said Margaret, " while we work, -what more could we desire?"    264    POVERTY AS A MORAL AGENT. "What kind of a book would you like "? 'Stories, or poetry," said Lizzy," or anything that wasn't sad." "Wouldn't you like something about picturesque pov- erty!" asked Margaret. , "Picturesque poverty is a humbug," said Richard, warm- ly, "and just as unnatural as a painted skeleton, or a corpse in a ball-dress, I don't believe in poverty at all; I don't like it; I don't think it improves any body." "You shouldn't say that, Richard," pleaded Lizzy: "surely you don't mean to say that the poor are bad!" "I mean it!"Eexclaimed the astonished Richard. "How could you 'think it, Lizzy? I know that they are good; but they are so in spite of their poverty, not on account of it. I tell you what I think-that happiness is the greatest moral reformer, and when you prove to me that poverty makes any man happy, then I'll admit it makes him good." "Poverty has always seemed to me the Siberia of the Soul," said Margaret; "a state that favors the growth of -the stern and sublime virtues, but where all the gentle feelings and kindly affections are dwarfed and stunted, and the heart of man, like the surface of the earth, is chilled and frozen." "But still," said Lizy, hesitatingly, "the snow that wraps the earth has green beneath it."   E- KEST -GREY.:  -  "So it- has," said Rithard, with a genial,. approving smile; "but I fear, Lizzy, it can't be seen until: the snow melts, and there is only one thing can do that."  "But- in those places where the snow never melts, where it is frozen through and through, becoming harder. and lees permeable every, year-what then?" said Margaret--" no grass grows there." .             . "But they -have mountains." said Lizzy. "Yes," replied Margaret.; "and the poor have fortitude. and endurance, which are loftier than mountains;, but I miss the trees and flowers, Lizzy."  "For my own part," said Richard, "supposing I gould locate myself where, I please, it should be neither at the poles nor- the equator, :for if one extreme indurates, the other enervates; if one hardens the heart, the other dries it up." "You would cast your lot in the pleasant places of the temperate zone," said Margaret. "'Feed me with food sufficient- for ie"-' is your prayer." "I always thought that prayer very presumptuous," observed Lizzy. 4- It sounds like making terms with the Almighty,: telling him what to give, in place of waiting for what he -ehooses to send."-  "I have sometimes thought so, too," said Margaret.; "and again -I have-thought it the essence of humility, the cry of a heart conscious of its own weakness, and desious   266    POVERTY AS A -MORAL AGENT. to be sheltered from temptation because it feared its ability to resist." "But there is no danger of our being tempted beyond our strength, Margaret; and we may be certain that wherever we are placed is the right station for us," rejoined Lizzy. "Not if we have the will and the power to leave it," exclaimed Richard, warmly. "Men are not human vege- ( tables. Contentment is a very good thing, when it means resignation to what we cannot help or hinder; but the contentment that prevents exertion is not- the genuine artile. However, there is one thing sure, that every con- dition in life has its own peculiar virtue: ' the virtue of prosperity is temperance-the virtue of adversity is forti- tude.'" "Who says so?" inquired Margaret. "Lord Bacon, 'the wisest, brightest, meanest of man- kind.' I have heard folks say," continued Richard, " that poverty was like a winter's day, bracing and invigorating, and all that." "But how were the folks off that said so?" interrupted Margaret. "Every one of them had overcoats for winter," replied Richard, laughing heartily. "I guess so," she rejoined, indignantly; "but you never heard the poor eulogize poverty."   ERNEST GREY         267 "I can't say I did," said Richard; "and I have always found that those who praise it are not willing to try it; so I have come to the conclusion -that a man never cries up poverty and patience until he has some dollars in his pocket. That's what I'll do when I'm rich." "Then you have made up your mind about it."' "Of course I have-' the road to wealth is as easy as the road to market,' and I am going to walk right straight into it." "' Then we will have to part company," said Lizzy, "for that's not our way." "i You must make it your way," replied Richard, emphat- ically, "for I'm not going to travel by myself. Do you really think I'd give up my old :friends? Is that your opinion of me, Lizzy?" he said, reproachfully. "No, indeed, Richard ; I only thought it for. a-minute, and I had:no right to think it at all,"-she replied, earnestly. "I don't know how I could think such a thing, for all the money in- California wouldn't make me forget a friend." "What friend, Liz?--Margaret, is it?" he said, in a voice that -slightly trembled. "Or you," replied Lizzy, without the least embarrass- ment. Richard reddened with mortification, for he had hoped his question would have elicited some show of feeling, and she had answered it as calmly as if it had reference merely   268    POVERTY AS A MORAL AGENT. to the weather. He didn't know what to think, for Lizzy's simplicity puzzled him more than the most refined affecta- tion could have done. One -thing, however, he knew, that if Lizzy regarded him only in the light of a- friend, he had better stay away, and he determined to ascertain this, if possible, before he left. "We began about books," he said, addressing Margaret, "and we ended at California. To come back to the sub- ject, I have got the ' Ancient Mariner' at home-shall I bring it to-morrow?" "Oh I Margaret knows it by heart," exclaimed Lizzy: "she has often repeated it to me, word for word, and it has made my flesh creep, and my blood curdle, every time. You should hear her repeat poetry, Richard: she knows any quantity." "Very fortunately for me," said Margaret, "I have an excellent memory, or I don't know what I should have done these latter years, deprived as I have been of books. I am living on the interest of Capital accumulated ages ago, to which I have long ceased to make any additions." "I shall try and get some new book for to-morrow, and bring it with- me-if I come." "What will keep you away?" -asked Lizzy "To tell you-the truth, Lizzy, I don't think I ought to come so often." "Why, Richard?" she inquired, anxiously.   ERN1EST GREY.         269 "Because it makes me restless at home, and I feel dis- satisfied everywhere else." "'That ought to make you come the oftener--oughtn't it, Margaret? So I am very glad you don't feel satisfied. Can't you come every night?" "Oh, but that won't do," said Richard: "I'll leave it to Margaret-will it?" he said, appealing to her by word and look. "I think it will do very well for awhile," she replied: "Rome wasn't built in a day." The answer did not sound very pertinent, yet, to judge from the expression of Kane's face, it was satisfactory. "If you say so, it's all right," he said, glancing at Mar- garet with a look full of meaning. "Don't fasten your eyes on me," said Margaret, with a careless laugh, as she saw the look had ,not passed unno- ticed. "I don't intend to," he said, jestingly, " for that wouldn't improve either of us: bad as they are, I can neither do without them nor better them." "Well, I'm sure I don't know what we should do if you stayed away, Richard," said Lizzy, suddenly dropping her work as she spoke, and looking up to him with eyes suffused in tears ; " we would 4e quite lost, we could never get along without you." "Couldn't you? said Richard, joyously, his handsome   270      GOING TO 1  MARRIED. face -glowing with animated pleasure. "I'd' rather hear you say that than get a thousand dollars."   / "And if I hadn't said it, Richard, you ought to have known it all the same." "Good 1" thought Margaret ; " if you had been thinking all your life, you couldn't have said anything more to the purpose. The wiliest coquette in the city couldn't manage better than my little, artless Lizzy. That remark has done for -you, Mr. Kane." And so it would seem, for Richard moved uneasily in his chair, started for the window, looked out and saw nothing, hurried back again and began poking the fire, with the'desperate energy of a man determined to brave his fate. "What-spite have you against that fire?" said Margaret, maliciously. "I tell you what," said Richard, wheeling his chair round to the table--" before next winter I'll have a house of my own, and as good a fire as you have here." "But who'll make it for you?" said Lizzy, laughing. "His wife, to be sure," said Margaret. '; His wife!" repeated Lizzy, changing color. "A re you going to be married?" "I hope so, Lizzy," he replied, tenderly, " if you have no objection." "Me! My objection wouldn't be of any consequence."   ERNEST- GREY.        27-1 "Would't it,: Liz?- If you say ' no,' I'll never marry- I'll not even think of it." "Well, don't think of it yet, Richard, for then we would lose you altogether. Wait for a little while-won't you?" "A very little while. But I must go," he said, starting up suddenly. "I'll bring the book to-morrow. Good- night I How dark it is 1" he said, opening the door. "Wait, Richard, and I'll light you down," said Mar- garet, taking the lamp from the table and following him down stairs. At the door he stood awhile; as if undecided what to do or say. Margaret spoke first. "You don't understand Lizzy, Richard; ahd she doesn't understand herself." "She doesn't care for me ; she has no more feeling than a stone," he said, in a tone of angry sorrow. "You know better than that, Richard." "I might get married to-morrow, for all she cares." "Well, perhaps you are right," said Margaret, quietly; "you have the best right to know; I suppose it is as you say." "It is no such thing, Margaret, and you know it ain't," he exclaimed, impatiently. "I'll not believe anybody but herself, and I'll ask her the question plump." "Act as you please, Richard; but as you wish to sue- ceed, don't be too precipitate. Good-night!"   272      GOING TO BE MARRIED. When they left the room, Lizzy fell into a reverie from which Margaret's return failed to rouse her. Her work l-y -neglected on her knee, while- busy thought recalled Cevery incident connected with Richard Kane,- from the morning she-first met him in Broadway till the conver- sation which had just taken place. Was their pleasant i;terconrse* to be broken off at once? - She feared so, for the more she pondered on his words, the more convinced was she of his seriousness. Going to be married--oh, why lhad he not said so before? Poor Lizzy I the veil was lifted from her heart, and she shrank aghast at what 'it revealed, Margaret observed her some time with affectionate in- terest, but did not seek to disturb her meditations, until she became aware, by the sudden flush that overspread cheek and brow, that Lizzy had penetrated the mystery of lier own heart. Then she arose quietly and left the room, , nd immediately returned, closing the door with a noise that would have awakened the seven sleepers. Lizzy started, took up her work and turned to Margaret, as if expecting her to speak; but Margaret preserved a profound silence, and moved by a restless anxiety to know ller thoughts, Lizzy remarked- "How bad we will feel when Richard gets married." "We! no, no, Liz. I shall be very glad of it." "Margaret!" exclaimed the astonished girl.   ERNEST GREYo.        273 "Certainly; why not? Think how pleasant it will be for him, Lizzy, to have a home, not a place to call in- but a home where he can forget every trouble, and rest after every toil--a home happy as his nature, and pleasant as his smile." "Yes," smilingly answered Lizzy-" yes, I would like that." "And an affectionate wife," continued Margaret, " who would share his prosperity and adversity, lighten the one, and enable him to bear the other-,-be the rainbow in his sorrow, and the sunbeam in his joy. Would you like that, Liz?" Lizzy made no reply ; but she stooped her burning face over the work, to hide the fast-falling tears. "Would you?" reiterated Margaret. "H--don't know who he is going to marry." "Why, you little simpleton," replied Margaret, catching both hands in her's, and gazing fondly into Lizzy's agitated face-" can you not guess -? Who do you think?" "Oh, Margaret, don't ask me," was her half-impatient answer. "It's cruel," she added, unconsciously. "What's cruel?" provokingly replied Margaret--" cruel of Richard to get married? I don't think so, and yet I will be the greatest sufferer." "You!" exclaimed the amazed, heart-struck Lizzy. "Oh, Margaret  dear Margaret, is it possible-do you love him too?"   27-4      GOING TO BE MARRIED. "Love him too," repeated Margaret, with a low, quiet laugh. "Why, do you? Ah, Liz, Liz," she added, fold- ing her tenderly in her arms, "I knew it all the time ; and now I will tell you who Richard loves-don't tremble, you silly thing. Can you bear it?" Lizy looked up, her lips firmly compressed, her face pale as marble. "L'zy Roberts." She was mute, but her reproachful look spoke vol- aumes. "Do you really think I would trifle with you at such a time, on such a subject?" inquired Margaret, with gentle seriousness. "No, Lizzy, surely not ; you ought to know me better. Believe me, if you loved Richard twice as much as you do, you couldn't love him better than he does you, nor more than- he deserves. Are you ashamed of loving him?" "Ashamed!"Lizzy replied, almost proudly. "AhI you can be indignant. If Richard only heard you now." Lizzy glanced uneasily round the room, then flinging her arms round Margaret's neck, and hiding her blushing face on her shoulder, she whispered, in low, beseeching tones, a request that she would not tell Richard. "Tell him what?" laughed Margaret, provokingly. "Not I," she added, immediately, " tell him in your own ,.   ERNEST GREY.         275 good time. He would not wish to hear it from me. Tell him to-morrow.' "Oh, no, no," vehemently protested Lizzy; "not to- morrow. I hardly know it myself." The morrow Richard did not come, nor the morrow after, but in his stead came a note, stating that he was obliged to leave the city without seeing them, that he had received intelligence of his father's dangerous illness, and that he could not say when he would return. , ,   CHAPTER XXX. NEWS FROM THE OUTSIDE WORLD-A SUICIDE IN StNG SING-PRISON POETRY-WHO WROTE IT?-MURDER OF FRANK HLL. MONTHS had passed since Ernest Grey crossed the thresh- hold of the prison, and during that time strange tidings reached him from the outer world. Richard Kane's im- passioned, self-accusing letter, recalling the fearful scenes that preceded his arrest, caused him many a bitter tear, and when' he read Mr. Clements' calm but earnest one, acknowledging his innocence, and expressing sincere sorrow for being the primary cause of his suffering, his eyes flashed with exultation, only tempered by the instantly recurring thought that she was not alive to share it. But when he read further, and became aware of the exertions making in his behalf, and the prospects before Steve,-he put the letter down, with the determination not to see Steve for a time, and to leave New York as soon after his liberation as he possibly could, make his way to some of the western states, andi return when he had re-established his character, and   ERNEST GREY.         2" when all danger of being recognized by his prison associates had vanished. Smith had undertaken, on his own responsibility, to keep those letters from him for weeks, and flatly refused him permission to return an answer. Ernest vehemently pro- tested against this tyrannic cruelty, and at last threatened to appeal to the Warden. For this he was thrown into his cell, deprived of food for two days, and an iron collar, with six spikes, fastened round his neck. This was no temporary punishment, for it remained on, night and day, for weeks, galling the flesh, and making the slightest movement painful When Ernest entered the workshop after his two days' solitary confinement, he observed an additional shade of gloom on the countenance of every man present.   He looked for Frank Hill, and knew, by the horror depicted in his every feature, that something terrible had occurred. He soon learned the cause. One of the prisoners, who was a universal favorite among his associates, maddened by the cruel treatment he had received from the keeper, and fear- ing a recurrence of it, committed suicide. On his bunk was found a few lines, saying that- he did it to escape punishment, that he couldn't and wouldn't bear the treat- ment he was receiving, that he would rather die at once; and ended by entreating the Keeper "not to be so fond of punishing his fellow-creatures, as he would have an account to give some time."   278    PRISON POETRY --WHO WROTE IT? The prison authorities did their best to hush the matter up, and keep the knowledge of it from the convicts, but by some means the fact transpired, and spread among them like wildfire, intimidating, some, exasperatilg others, and horrifying all. Some time after, the following lines of doggrel were discovered on the door of Smith's apartment: "For a heart of steel and an arm of pith, Who can equal our Keeper Smith? There's none like him on the rolls of fame, For drunk, or sober, he's still the same. That before lie dies he may dance on a string, Is the prayer of each prisoner now in Sing Sing." He was furious, raved like a madman, stamped and swore that, if he didn't find out the writer, he would punish every man in the room. "Who wrote - these lines?" he shouted, in a towering passion, " who wrote them, I say? Don't think you can deceive me. I'll ind out if I was to cut it out of your hearts, I will. I'll flog every man in this room, if you don't confess." The under-keeper whispered something in his ear. "t Yes, I'll shower every d----d one of you, you set of miserable, ungrateful devils. If I was another, I'd flay you alive. Who wrote them?" There was no answer; the terrified prisoners looked at each other in mute dismay.   ERNEST GREY.         279 "-I think I know who did it," he said, glaring at Frank Hill with the ferocity of a wild beast about to spring upon his prey ; "and he shai't escape me.-no, by ---, heshall suffer for it. He thinks himself smart, but I'll make him -smart for it," and a low laugh followed his brutal pun, like the malicious chuckle of a fiend. Poor Frank trembled in every limb, for though he did not dare to lift his eyes to his tormentor's face, he knew that the tirade was directed against him, and his dread of the shower-bath was so excessive, that the very name made him shrink in terror. I'll give yous one chance more," exclaimed Smith, addressing them, indiscriminately. "Who wrote the lines? will you own up before I order you out for punish- ment?" With one voice they denied all knowledge of them, no one had written them, no one had seen them written, and no 'one could imagine who wrote them, or how they got there. i"Very well, he said, ' I see how it is : you won't peach -honor among thieves, eh?-,ha I ha I ha I that's good. But you've met your match, my men: Ill break your spirits if they were twice as high ;-aye, if you were as stubborn as mules, I'd make you submissive, make you mind. How dare you look at me that way, sir?" he exclaimed, turning to the prisoner known as No. -475.   280      l{MURDER OF FRANK HLL. "A cat may look at a king," said the man, doggedly. The words were scarcely out of his mouth, when the keeper's heavy club struck him on the shoulder, and made him reel. "How dare you give me such an answer?" roared Smith, furious at the outrage on his dignity. "We must teach you manners, I see; we must give you a little extra punishment." "Punish away," was the reckless answer, "just as much as you have a mind to. I don't mind punishment no more than nothin' at all." "You don't-eh?" said Smith, vindictively. "Very well, we'll see what metal you're made of. Here," he said, addressing the under-keepers, "take these men and shower them one after another-five barrels for every one except these," pointing to No. 475 and Hill-" give them six." Eight men were before Hill, and as he saw this barrier gradually disappear, his fear became frenzy. At last his turn came, and the keepers pounced upon him, and seized him by the arm. He shrank from  them as if the cold of the water had already reached him, and appealed to Smithi, protesting his innocence, and entreating to be spared. His entreaties made no more impression on him than the sigh of the wind; he listened to them for a time, patiently enough, and then ordered the men to -take him away.   ERNEST OREY.         281 "Save me, Grey ;" he exclaimed, imploringly, extending Jlis hand in the firm belief that he could help him'. "Save me, for God's sake!" "I will," said Ernest, determined to put a stop to the wholesale cruelty, by taking the blame upon himself., a Let him go. I did it." A gleam of joy shot athwart Hills ,emaciated face, as the- certainty of escape became apparent to his bewildered mind. "So you did it," said Smith, eyeing Grey with malignant pleasure. "You're the poet. Very well. We'll do as we would be done by-we'll distinguish you, you d  d canting, hypocritical rascal. Don't let him take that collar off-you must wear it," he added, "until you make better verses than these. Take him away, and don't forget about the collar." Anxious to secure another victim, Smith's eyes wandered round the circle, and rested upon Frank Hill, who had slunk behind, almost out of view. "And so you knew all the time who wrote it," he said, lashing himself into anger. "Perhaps you wrote part of it yourself." Frank eagerly assured him that he never wrote a line of it, and never knew who did. But if he spoke with the tongue of ah angel, it would not have availed him, for from the first Smith had determined to find or make an excuse   282     MURDER OF FRANK HLL. for implicating him. If he had escaped, the punishment of every individual in the room would have given him- no, pleasure. Poor Frank Hill! your sufferings are nearly over. A few hours more, and the cruelty of keepers cannot affect you. More dead than alive, he was dragged to the bath, showered, and thrown into his cell. What he suffered during that night; is known only to God. There, alone, without a kind voice to whisper comfort to his departing soul, without a loving hand to wipe the death damps from his brow, or wet his parching lips, without an ear to catch his last faltering accents, Frank Hill departed, his- dying struggles unseen by any mortal eye, his dying moans waken- ing no echo in any human heart. And yet but a few miles away, in a country homestead, beneath whose eaves birds build their nests, and by whose side runs a gurgling brook -he knew it well-are tranquilly sleeping many who would lay down their lives for him. Alas I what avails it? Did his mind revert to it or them? Perhaps -in thought he died at home ; perhaps, at his last hour, the prison and its' attendant horrors vanished, and were replaced by that scene of external pleasantness and internal peace. Morning dawned warm and bright; the broad rolling Hudson flashed beneath the rays -of the rising sun, and Nature started from her nocturnal slumber to greet him;   ERNEST GREYt.         283 but within that narrow cell, through whose grated window he poured a food of light, lay one whom only the Sun of Righteousness can resuscitate-one who fell a victim, not to the errors of one man, but the faults of a system, not to the brutality of a keeper, but the guilty supineness of his fellow-men, and the cruel indifference w ith which they turn from everything that " is not their business." f.   C t APTER    XXXI. THE RELEASE FROM SING-SING--DICK THE BURGLAR-- THE DREAM-DETECTION OF THE BURGLARS--GREY IS FATALLY WOUNDED. THE application to the Governor for pardon was successful; the term of imprisonment was reduced to six months, and at the expiration of that period Ernest Grey stood once more in the streets of New York, a free man. Prior to leaving the prison, he had received a letter from Mr. Clements, enclosing some money, and directing him to pro- ceed to his house without delay; but though his heart yearned to see Steve, he adhered to the resolution he had previously formed, of leaving his native state. While looking about for an humble lodging-house in which to spend the night, a man passed, and catching a glimpse of,his face, turned suddenly and slapped him on the shoulder. It was Dick the Burglar. Warmly Ernest grasped the extended hand, and thanked him for the sea- sonable relief he had afforded him inhis extremity. To this Dick turned a deaf ear, but insisted that he should   ERNEST GREY.         285 go with him, and tell him all about his old comrades who were in prison. Hearing he was alone, Ernest consented, and the greater part of, the night was spent in relating prison anecdotes, which Dick never wearied of hearing. At last, when all was told, he flung himself on a heap of straw, motioned to Ernlest to do the same, and was soon fast asleep. For a while Ernest remained awake, laying out his plans for the future, and indulging in fond anticipations concern- ing Steve, but at length he yielded to the drowsy-influence of the time and place, and slumbered where he sat. In sleep, his life lay spread before him like a map:. he could retrace the windings of his course through many years; incidents long since forgotten came up before him, and the friends of former days crowded round him. Again he was a school-boy, ardent and ambitious, first, in every feat of boyish daring; again he hid among the rustling grass, or the umbrageous foliage of the forest trees; again inhaled the fragrance of the new-mown hay, or drank deep draughts of limpid water from the well. Suddenly the country vanished, and within a Christian temple by his side stood' a gentle, blue-eyed- girl, in bridal veil ard robes of purest white; It was his wedding-day, and with proud fondness he gazed upon the blushing face and graceful form of her he loved, but even as he gazed the features became hollow and cadaverous, the form emaciated, the eyes glazed and   286         THE DREAM. filmy, a convulsive shudder shook her feeble frame, and she lay still in death. Then with the rapidity and incongruity of a dream, the scene cllanged, and he found himself, he knew not how nor wherefore, in a magnificent apartment brilliantly lighted. On the floor 'a man lay extended, and from his side the warm life-blood trickled on the carpet, staining the pureness of its ivory ground. There was some- thing in the shape and size of the wounded man that made his heart throb wildly. With a bound he cleared the room and stood beside him, looked eagerly into the upturned features, and with a cry of horror recognized his own. The shock awoke him. Dick was still asleep; the candle still burning, but dimly, for it was at the socket, and the greyish light of early morning was struggling with the retreating darkness. Ernest had intended to leave New York that day, but an irresistible desire to visit the house where his wife died, and to look on the outside of that which sheltered his child, took possession of him, and he determined to gratify it. Towards evening he might be seen wandering up and down before the wretched habitation that was her last earthly abode, and when the lamp was lit, drawing close to'the windows, and scanning the faces of its inmates, to ascertain if sorrow was among them, It was a beautiful summer night. "The balmiest sigh that vernal zephyr ever breathed in evenings ear, was   ERNEST GREY,         287 murmuring through the trees that shaded Mr. Clements' resi- dence. On the balcony a pleasant party was assembled, chat- ting and laughing in all the unrestrained freedom of familiar intercourse. Among them was one privileged person, a bright-eyed, laughing boy, Who ran in and out as he listed, romped with Emily, or placed himself fearlessly between Mr. Clements' knees, to watch the fire-flies glancing through the dark green leaves. Allowing for the difference of season, it was such a scene as Ernest Grey had looked on six months ago ; and now again he was present. He saw and understood it all. That child was his. N1o change of dress could deceive the father's eye, the father's heart. He would have known him under the robes of royalty, or the rags of mendicancy. It was his Steve. With a heart overflowing with gratitude, to Him who out of evil bringeth good, Ernest Grey looked and listened, noted the Unconstrained freedom of the boy's movements, and with swimming eyes observed the caresses lavished- on him by all. The lights were all extinguished, the sounds of busy'life were still, yet Ernest Grey remained so lost to all sur- rounding objects, that he did not for some time observe two-stealthy figures, moving so noiselessly that they awoke no footfall, examining Mr. Clements' house on every side, as:if seeking for the easiest mode of ingress.  But once his attention was aroused, he observed them narrowly, and   288     DETECTION OF THE BURGLARS. immediately became aware that they were burglars, intent upon forcing an entrance. His mind was made up at once: he determined. to remain perfectly still, and watching their movements until they effected an entrance, make his way into the house, and act afterwards as circumstances would render-most prudent. In an incredibly short space of time they disappeared. With a light, rapid, step, Ernest fol- lowed; he paused for .a moment at the basement door, which, as he calculated, was open to facilitate their egress, then entered, closed the door gently, and hastened up the. basement stairs. The two men were in the parlor. Each carried a dark laonter-, and wore masks which partly concealed; their fea- tires. Still Ernest ,thought that one was familiar to him, and he endeavoriedto catch the tones of his voice, to ascer- tain if his suspicions were correct. Was it indeed his host of--the preceding night? If so, he would warn him to escape before he alarmed the inmates, for gratitude he thoiuht demanded no less.           ;- : Di"ek, said the other ruffian, in a guarded wMsper, "we're losing time; tiere's[ nothing here-up stair is the place" .  '            . "Come- along then,- Tom,":replied Dick, inm accents there was no mistaking.-, FOllow, I'll: lead the way." '"If you attempt to go further, I'll alarm then house,"  IN SLE, I L  , A  BFR M I INSLEEPHS LIE A SPRAD BFORE I IE MA ir     ERNEST GREY.         289 sternly uttered Ernest, emerging from the gloom as he spoke, and barring their passage to the stairs. In momentary alarm the burglars fell back, but discover- ing that they had but one to contend with, they instantly rallied and sprang upon Ernest. He had no difficulty in eluding their grasp, for they were encumbered with the lanterns. With one bound he was up the stairs, but Tom seeing the imminence of the danger, flung away the lantern and followed. He soon overtook him, seized him in his iron grasp, and dragged him down. "Don't kill him, Tom," pleaded the other ; "I know the man." "If he was your father I'd do it," he savagely retorted. "This game's up through him." And drawing a- bowie- knife from his belt, he plunged it into his side. Ernest felt that it was his death-blow, and, determined to effect his purpose, he summoned all his strength and shouted aloud. Before the echo of his voice died away, the tramp of hurrying feet was heard, and the burglars fled, affrighted. What followed was a blank to Ernest. 'When he awoke to consciousness, Mr. Clements was bending over him, and Robert was endeavoring to staunch the wound in his side. No other was in the room, for Mr. Clements, as soon as he recognized Grey, dismissed all, fearing that his son, in the first paroxysm of emotion, might betray himself. 'Twas fortunate he did so, for his remorse burst all bounds, and   290     GREY IS FATALLY WOUNDED. he loudly denounced himself as the murderer of the dying man. "Hush!" said Mr. Clements, warningly; "he hears you." But prudential considerations were of no more weight than a feather-or rather, they were unthought of-the one engrossing feeling absorbed and overpowered every other, and Robert poured into the ear of the wondering man his tale of sin and suffering. Several times Ernest strove to stop him, but he might as well talk to the winds ; the storm of passion was too mighty to be controlled; the tumult of his soul could not be allayed by words. "Now can you forgive me?' inquired Robert, bending low to catch the answer. Ernest grasped his hands, and pressed them to his heart. "Forgive," he replied, turning his eyes from father to son--"yes, from my heart, as I hope to be forgiven. What you have done for Steve would wipe out ten times, that. Oh, Steve! Steve 1" he added, dwelling lovingly on the word ; '( if I could but see you." "Bring him, Robert," said Mr. Clements, hastily, " and return with him alone." "Wait," said Ernest, entreatingly, laying his hand on Robert's arm to detain him,; "I would tell you, what brought me here before you go."   ERNEST GREY.         291 The tale was soon told, and Robert proceeded for Steve. "Heaven preserve us! what is this?" he exclaimed, recoiling with horror, as a volume of smoke poured into the room through the open door.  "The house is on fire 1" -    CHAPTER XXXII. THE BURNING BUILDING-RESCUE OF AGATHA CLEMENTS AND LIZZY ROBERTS-RICHARD KANE, THE FIREMAN. WHEN Dick gained the open street he turned to look for his companion, and found himself alone, but, fearing pur- suit, he hurried on, leaving his accomplice to shift for himself. In the meantime, Tom, who was furiously exas- perated at the disappointment, neglected his safety to obtain revenge, and, in place of securing a retreat, set fire to the basement floor in several places, and then hastened from the doomed building, his brutal features wearing a smile of demoniac malignity. Soon after, a light smoke issued from the basement door, which grew, gradually, denser and blacker, and while Mr. Clements and Robert were engaged with Grey, the fire progressed rapidly, and assumed a threatening appearance. The alarm was soon given, the pealing of fire-bells broke the stillness of the night, and almost simultaneously with the first stroke was heard -the sound of rollig wheels and tramping feet. Then came the loud, hoarse cries of the 9  hurrying firemen, urging each other on to their utmost speed, growing louder and hoarser as they advanced. On they swept, their eagerness increasing as they neared the burning building, and as they came within sight of the fearful element, it was their delight to encounter and their glory to subdue, the wild, exulting shout that burst from them resembled the charging cry of .an army rushing to battle. With what marvelous skill and celerity they clear the sharpest angle, and dash straight on with break-neck speed in their endeavors to head off a rival company, and now, with a glow of exultation, they pause before the burning house. In' rapid succession several companies arrive, dragging heavy engines, or scaling-ladders, or hose carts, and in- stantly the work proceeds. The ground is covered with a net-work of hose, which but a moment before.lay coiled up like sleeping serpents, and through these is poured con- tinuous streams of water upon the flames. The first efforts of the firemen were directed to saving the stairs, and in this way keeping open a means of escape for those who might be inside. When Mr. Clements and Robert became aware of the danger, they hastened to awake all the members of the- household, and apprize them of it. This done, Robert returned to the wounded man, lifted him in his arms, with as much ease as he would have lifted Steve on an ordinary  294      THE BURNING BUILDING. occasion, and despite his entreaties and remonstrances, con- veyed him to a place of safety. In the meantime, Mr. Clements, whose habitual self-possession did not forsake him in the moment of peril, collected his family and servants together, and impressed on them the necessity of following his directions. To attempt getting out by the front stairs  was worse than madness, it was certain death, for they were enveloped in flames; but it happened, fortunately, that the fire had not communicated with the back stairs leading to the garden, and by that way lay their only hope of escape. Keeping close to the ground, that they might breathe more freely, they hastened towards the door, some so bereft of their senses by terror that they knew not which way to turn, and if left to themselves, would inevitably have perished. They were almost out of dan- ger, when Agatha remembered, with a thrill of horror, that Lizzy Roberts had'delayed the night before to finish some work for her mother, and that in the confusion and alarm she had been totally forgotten. Without uttering a word to any one of her intentions, she held back and let all pass her, then rapidly but cautiously retraced her steps. Arrived at the spot from which the party started, she looked round in terror, for smoke encompassed her on every side, and she knew not which way to turn, for to advance or retreat seemed equally dangerous. Blinded and almpst suffocated, she hurried forward at random, and   ERNEST GREY.         295 found to her dismay that she had made a circuit, and was again at the original starting point. Her brain reeled, her senses forsook her, and she fell, .exhausted, on the ground. "Any one down there?" shouted a voice from above, and immediately a fireman, so begrimed with smoke that his mother would not have known him, dashed down the smouldering stairs, and caught her in his arms. With the coolness of one accustomed to such scenes, he surveyed his position, then struck into the right path, as if by instinct, and paused not until he laid his burden on a seat in the garden. The fresh air revived her almost' immediately, and with consciousness returned the memory of her danger, and the cause that led to it. Turning to her deliverer, she exclaimed- "Is she safe?"' "Yes, yes," he replied, soothingly, thinking that terror had affected her reason. "Thank God!" she said, fervently. "Poor Lizzy!" "What Lizzy?" inquired the man, in accents of terror. "Speak, for God's sake! speak." "Lizzy Roberts." "Heaven and earth!" he exclaimed, clenching his hands so violently together that the blood started to the finger- nails. "Where is she?-think-a mistake now is a murder."   296     RESCUE OF LIZZY. ROBERTS. "Fourth floor, front room," answered Agatha, quietly and promptly, for the sight of the man's agony had aroused her. "I need not say, save her, but can I do anything?" she added. "Tell them to put ladders to the window." And he was gone.  Keeping to the rear as long as it was practicable, for it was least injured by the fire, and fearlessly facing the dangers he could not evade, he reached the tQp of the house. With a feeling of relief akin to transport, he saw a female figure kneeling by the window. "Lizzy Lizzy! thank God I have found you!" he exclaimed, passionately. She knew his voice, and welcomed him with a cry of gladness. "Oh, why did you come here, dear, dear Richard?" "To live or die with you," he cried, with a concen- trated vehemence of passion that disdained all restraint. "Lizzy, can you not-will you not understand that I love you?" "Up there, Dick?" called the foreman, through his trumpet. "Aye," shouted Richard in reply, appearing at the window and directing them where to place the ladder. When it became known that one of the firemen had ventured into the burning building to rescue a woman, the   ERNEST 'REY.         297 excitement outside became intense. A crowd can look calmly on the destruction of any edifice, however magnifi- cent-it is only a spectacle, though a sublime one, that may affect the imagination, but cannot touch the heart, for it is wanting in human interest. In this spirit of indiffer- ence the multitude, ignorant that any one was in danger, had looked on the destruction of Mr. Clements' splendid resi- dence, except when some instance of reckless daring on the part of the firemen aroused their feelings, and made their nerves tingle with sympathetic terror. But now with what different feelings they gazed, knowing that a moment might decide the fate of two human beings, that each volume of smoke that rolled upwards might bear with it their last breath. The fire has reached the roof, the spiral flame ascends in columns, but with a swiftness equal to itsown, the watery jet enwreathes it, and they sink together. A cloud of smoke, black as Erebus and thick as Stygian woof, bursts forth, and the spectators strain their eyes in vain to pierce it. All is darkness, but as it clears away, Richard Kane is seen on the ladder, one hand holding it firmly, the other clasping a young girl round the waist. Slowly they de- scend, very slowly, Richard whispering words of encourage- ment to his companion, -while his gaze is fixed on the build. ing, for well he knows it is near its fall. They are half- way down, and now, with a terrific crash, the roof falls in.   298    RICHARD KANE, THE FIREMAN. A cry of horror butsts from the crowd, for the walls totter, and, with a shudder, they involuntarily close their eyes, dreading to look upon the fearful 'tragedy they think inevitable; but the next glance shows the walls still stand- in,g, the ladder still in its resting-place, and Richard and Lizzy still slowly descending. The multitude, awed by the imminence of their danger, hardly breathe ; with fearful interest they watch their pro- gress, and with a sensation of relief mark each additional step that separates them from their appalling foe. A- moment more, and a spontaneous cheer proclaims that suspense is at an end. They are safe, they have touched the earth, but -the revulsion is too much for Lizzy's over- wrought feelings, and she finds relief in insensibility. Richard raises her gently, bears his burden to a neighbor- ing house, and ol the first symptoms of returning conscious- ness hastens back to his post. Steadily the men work their engines and ply their hose, as fresh and vigorous as if they had but commenced. Some are on the tottering walls; others " in the skeleton window pits," whence they direct a continuous stream upon the burning mass below.   Overhead, the deep-blue summer sky glows like a furnace, and the whirling smoke that wreathes up is tinged with a lurid light, while at intervals the darting flame leaps forth like lightning from a thunder cloud, but vanishes as swiftly.   ERNEST GREY.        -  299 All hope of saving the house has been long since aban- doned, and the firemen's efforts are directed to confining the fire within its present limits. As soon as the crowd became aware that this object was accomplished, they beg(an to disperse, and in a short time the firemen and a few stragglers alone remained. ^  '  *    *A   CHAPTER XXXIII RICHARD KANE'S LOVE-THE WILL AND THE WAY-THE UNSET TEA-TABLE--THE DISCOVERY. WHEN the fire was completely extinguished, Richard Kane hastened to tell Margaret all that had occurred,; lest she might be alarmed by hearing exaggerated accounts from others. Though shocked and horrified at the danger he and Lizzy had passed through, and the sufferings Mr. Clements' family had endured, she lost not a moment in useless complaints, but set off to see Lizzy, and make inquiries concerning Miss Clements and the different mem- bers of the household. "I must turn you out now, Richard, for I want to lock the door," she said, dangling the key on her finger; " but come early in the evening." And Richard did come early, very early, and found Margaret alone. "Don't be frightened," she said, observing the uneasy glance he cast around the room. "Lizzy is well, but she was so nervous and agitated that I prevailed upon her to   ERNEST GREY.         301 lie down and rest. She has been sleeping an hour, and I expect will awaken quite refreshed. But tell me all about the fire. You received no injury?" "No, not a scratch ;" and he proceeded to tell her all he knew about the fire, the manner in which it was supposed to have 'originated, the progress it made before it was discovered, and the value of the property destroyed. "But you haven't told how you rescued Miss Clements and Lizzy. I asked Lizfy herself, but the very idea of it seemed to revive -all her terrors, so I dropped the subject. I question if she retains any clear recollection of it."- "Do you think so?" said Richard, musingly. "I think it is very probable." "Margaret," he said, suddenly, after a long silence, " ) made up my mind to speak to Lizzy openly'and plainly, but this fire has unsettled all" my plans." "How so?" exclaimed Margaret, amazed.   "What could happen better for you?" "Then you think it would bias Lizzy in my favor-that I would have a better chance to-day than yesterday?" "I think it very likely," replied Margaret,. smiling. "Ask and see." "No, Margaret," hesaid, vehemently. "It's love, not gratitude, I want. What I did for Lizzy, any member of -our company would have done. I claim nothing on that   302      RICHARD KANE'S LOVE. score; I would have done it, if I had never seen her face before-I would have done it for a child-for any one. It was only a chance that I was there, and not another; and to owe her love to a chaucc " "Well, wait until her enthusiasm in your favor has abated,-until her gratitude has cooled down," said Mar- garet, coolly. "Wait for a month or a year, and then you can speak." You think me a fool, Margaret, I see." "I don't think any such thing, Richard. I admire the wisdom of your patience very much." Richard bit his lip, his usual practice when annoyed, and asked her what she meant. "I'll tell you frankly," she replied, "for I never could appreciate the delicacy and refinement that would lose a friend before it would condescend to explain. But, first, do you-for I begin to doubt it-do you really love Lizzy " "Do I " he exclaimed, with indignant impetuosity-- "do I love my life? What a question! Do I love her? Yes, better than I love it, a hundred times. She is the dearest thing to me on earth. I would live for her, labor for her, die for her." "Would you make a sacrifice for her?" "No'; that I couldn't do-to sacrifice anything for her would be no sacrifice. Yes, Margaret, there is one sacri-   ERNEST GREY.         303 fice--I could sacrifice my love if it was disagreeable to her -even that I could do. To make her happy I would consent never to see her more; though to be happy with. out her would be an impossibility. Is that love? If it is, then I love her." "Well, if I loved, I would try and ascertain if my love was returned." "And have I not, time and again? But no matter what I said, Lizzy would not understand. I don't believe," he added, with bitterness, "she can love." "Then you cannot blame her for what is simply a defect of her nature." "Nonsense l" said Richard, walking across the room with a firm, rapid step; "Nonsense 1 Margaret, defect or no defect, if love can create love, I'll make her love me." "Success attend your laudable endeavors; but take my advice, Richard, and speak to her at once." Appeal to her while her feelings are excited by the occurrence of this morning I Present my bill for services rendered, and demand to be paid in love I No, Margaret, no.  If I am rejected,-well: if I am  accepted, for Heaven's sake I let it be for love." "Well, take your own course," said Margaret; "but do not do Lizzy the injustice to believe for one moment that she would barter her heart for her life. I advised you to speak to her- at once, not because her feelings are excited,   304      RICHARD KANE'S LOVE. but because your common danger may have made her aware of the state of her own heart. Tirust me, if she ever loved you she found it out then, but, as I said before, take your own course." And here the conversation ended. Little did either dream that that conversation was overheard. Yet so it was, for the apartment in which Lizzy lay opened into the sitting-room, and as they raised their voices when excited, or interested, the entire gist of it became known to her. When her waking ear first caught the sound of Richard's voice, the desire to see and thank him im- pelled her to hurry in, but the sense of the conversation soon reached her, and then her only course was to counter- feit sleep. As Richard's heart was laid open to her in its passion and waywardness, and as she became aware of his great love for her, her own throbbed with a feeling of exulting gladness equally new and delicious. It was sweet to be so beloved. The few words, he had addressed to her when death seemed inevitable, and which she had brooded over ever since, were not then, as she feared they might be, a temporary ebullition of feeling, forced from him by sur- rounding circumstances; but the overflowing of a full heart, stirred by violent emotion. As she listened, the quiet fervor of her love seemed dull and cold beside the passionate ardor of his, and she reproached herself for not loving him enough. Why let him suffer when one word   ERNEST GREY.         3,05 from her could make him happy. Lizzy rose, determined to force an explanation before he left, for her happiness was incomplete unless he shared it. She entered, noise- lessly, and stood for a moment, stilling the tumult of her spirit, before she advanced. They were both at the win- dow, Margaret working, and Richard gazing down the street. Without speaking a word she crossed the room, caught Richard's hands in her's, and forgetting everything save the fearful- danger he had encountered for her sake, pressed them   to her lips, murmuring "Richard, dear Richard." Richard sprang to his feet as if a bombshell had ex- ploded beside him, and would have committed some act of folly, had not Lizzy added-- "I owe my life to you again." He muttered some unintelligible reply of-which she could only hear the words--" any one would have done the same." "But no one else did, Richard," she replied earnestly; "and I am glad of it. I would rather owe my life to you than any one." "Why Lizzy?--tell me why?" "Because-because H--" love you Lizzy thought she could say ; but she overrated her resolution, and confused and blushing she turned away, adding-" because you are a dear friend, Richard."   806      RICHARD KANEDS LOVE. "Well," soliloquized Margaret, "if you don't speak now, friend Richard, you shan't have a chante again in a hurry. I didn't think you were such a fool." And to turn the conversation, she inquired if he had seen any of Mr. Clements' family since the fire. * Yes ; Mr. Clements sent for me to receive his daugh- ter's thanks for preserving her, as she said, from a fearful death, and to offer me a situation in his establishment." "And I, for whom you ran a greater risk, have no way of showing my gratitude," said Lizzy, softly. "If you had the will, Lizzy," began Richard, eagerly, his eyes beaming with new-born hope, "I could tell you the way ; but it would be asking a great deal." "Oh, Richard I when I think of that ladder," and she shuddered as she spoke, "I feel that you cannot ask too much. What is it?" "Nothing," moodily he replied. "Is not that thanks enough." - "Yes, and more than enough among friends," inter- rupted Margaret. "Now, good folks, I am going to the grocers, for I must have something extra nice this evening, and I charge you not to be moping while I'm away, think- ing over that gloomy subject all the time. Surely you can find something else to talk about."  There is nothing so hard to find as a subject of dis- course; it is never th be had when wanted, and when   ERNEST GRBEY.         O 30 people begin to think of what they will say, they had bet[ ter say nothing. This is particularly true, when the mind is occupied exclusively with one subject on which the tongue is forbidden to speak. It was so with Richard: he could not talk to Lizzy on any indifferent subject, and to conceal his embarrassment, he lifted the first book that came to hand and seemed to read. But uizzy saw that it was a mere pretence, for his eyes never rested on it, and as she marked the despondency that overspread every feature; and remembered that one word from her would dispel it all; she involuntarily drew near him, "There is something wrong with you, Richard. Are you ill?" "No, Lizzy," he replied, rousing himself; "I am quite well."  She was silent for a moment, and then in tremulous ac- cents she asked, "What have I done to you, Richard?" "Done -to mee!" he replied with impassioned bitterness. "Nothing, Lizzy, nothing. It is nothing to repel my love without seeming to be aware of it-nothing to give the kindness of indifference in return for the passionate devo- tion of a true heart, and you have mine, Lizzy." "Have I?" she said, looking up to him with a radiant face and a  smile of delight. "Then I'll keep it, Rich- ard." ,       * ' '    308      RICHARD KANE'S LOVE. "What!" he exclaimed, recoiling in amazement too great for words. "I have a right to it, Richard," she -said in a low voice, dropping her eyes and blushing to the temples ; " for- for you ;ave got mine in place of it.' With a passionate exclamation of joyful surprise, Rich- ard clasped her to his heart, and kissed again and again the blushing face that was upturned to his. Confused and trembling she strove to extricate herself from his embrace, but his happiness was too sudden, too unexpected to admit of moderation, and in place of releasing her he folded his arms more lovingly around her, and clasped her closer to his heart. "And you love me, Liz," he repeated, about the twen- tieth time, imprinting another kiss on the full ripe lips,"- really and truly love me." "Let me go, Richard-Margaret will be here pres- ently." "Say you love me, and I will. I haven't heard you say it once." "I do."  "But say it," persisted Richard-" isn't it the truth, and don't I know it," he added, with a provokingly assured smile. "I won't let you go until you say it, Liz, no mat- ter who comes." "I love you, Richard," and Lizzy blushing deeply, m   ERNEST GREY.         309 if it were her first confession, disengaged herself from his encircling arms and retreated to the window. "Sit beside me, Liz," he pleaded. "I will be guilty of no more indiscretion. "Sit here and tell me "- "I have told you enough," interrupted Lizzy, smiling. "You mustn't be too exacting, Richard." "Well, sit down; I have got something to tell you." "No, no; I must set the table-what will Margaret think?"  "Whatever she likes," replied Richard, placing her forcibly in a chair, and taking a seat beside her; and I hope she will keep away for some time, for I have a great deal to say to you." And he told her with the simple eloquence of true feeling, how long and truly he loved her, how useless all his efforts to conquer this love had been, and the torture her blind indifference to his passion inflicted on him. "You wouldn't see it, Lizzy, no matter how broad my hints, no matter how significant my manner; you would see nothing but friendship in all I said or did, and to-day I thought for the first time, that you loved somebody else." "Richard!" she exclaimed, with a look of tender re- proach. "And but for the mnfortunate circumstance of the fire, I would have spoken frankly, but I scorned to take ad- vantage, or to seem to take advantage of such a service,  *   310      THE UNSET TEA-TABLE. and I determined to watch myself carefully, not to drop a word that could be construed into an appeal-so much for man's resolves, but for the life of me I can't imagine how it came about." "I can," said Lizzy, smiling and blushing; "because I determined on it, for I heard all you said to Margaret, and, indeed, Richard," she added, with simple earnestness, "i when I was sure it would make you happy to know I loved you, I wished you to know it-I tried to tell you two or three times, but I couldn't." "You are an angel, Lizzy, and I'm a fool-that's all." "Hush I Richard," she said, putting her hand on his mouth to enforce silence. "How loud you talk--Marga- ret is coming up." Margaret entered, flushed and tired, for the basket was heavy, and she had hurried back to prepare tea. "It is quite provoking not to get all you want in one store," she said, resting the basket on-a chair preparatory to unloading it. "I have'been obliged to go all round for these things. Here is what you like, Lizzy--cresses ; but bless me I what is the reason you haven't set the table? Richard will think you don't want him to stay for tea." Richard threw a sly, laughing glance at Lizzy, and said gravely-"It looked very like it, I fear." "You haven't made yourself very agreeable,"! she said to him.   ERNEST GRE.          31 1 "I did my best, Margaret. But by the bye, I didn't tell you, or Lizzy, all my good luck. I said Mr. Clements offered me a situation ; but I didn't add, that it is a highly responsible and lucrative one, and that I will soon be inde- pendent if I retain it." "That's excellent," said Margaret, warmly. "Ain't it, Lizzy?  I am really delighted lo hear it, Richard. Now, I suppose, you will realize all your day dreams presently about getting a house." "Yes, that I will," interrupted Richard. "And a wife?" added Margaret. , "I have got one already." Margaret looked bewildered, Lizzy confused, and Richard laughed outright. "I   have been expeditious," he said, gaily: "I got one while you were away." And Lizzy threw her arms around her friend's neck, and murmured-" dear Margaret, dear Margaret." Although neither was very explicit, Margaret understood the whole matter at once, so quickly, indeed, that it might be supposed she expected it, and that her delay was not purely accidental. However that may-be, we know not, for Margaret kept her counsel, and claimed no credit on that score. With the warmth of true friendship she con- gratalated them, and rejoiced in their happiness, returned Richard's cordial grasp, and Lizzy's loving caress.   312        THE DISCOVERY. "Didn't I tell-you, Margaret, that I would have a home of my own soon, and not be obliged to beg a seat at any- body's fireside?" "Yes," replied Margaret, provokingly, "and you told me something else, too, only to-day-something about a fire, which I wish Lizzy had heard-it would give her a clear idea of your inflexible 'determination." "Joke away, Margaret ; 'you find jest and I'll find laugh, I promise you :1 ' they may laugh who win,' you know." "Very true, and they may weep who lose ; and I have lost my only companion." There was a scarcely perceptible tremor in Margaret's voice as she concluded, and Lizzy's bright eyes were be- dimmed with tears. "Nonsense," said Richard; " we had better settle this matter at once, and not be fretting about what will never happen. You're not going to leave us, Margaret. Lizzy would never endure it, and I would never submit to it. Our home will be your home d Lizzy added her entreaties to his, and Margaret at length consented. "But when are these changes to take place? I suppose you have decided upon the time." "Oh, Margaret, it is time enough to think about that, this great while," interrupted Lizzy, quickly. "No, no," said Richard, decidedly: "there is no time   ERNEST GREY.         313 like the present. Let me have my way in this, Lizzy, and you may have your own way in everything else. In a week I will have everything ready. Let us be married next weel." It was finally arranged that the marriage should take place the week after next, and that Rlichard should procure rooms, and have them fitted up simply and comfortably for his bride; and then he rose to take leave, with undisguised reluctance.               -  Though it was late, he delayed ai long time at the door. What he said, or did, we have no -means of knowing, but one thing we. do know-this time his companion was not Margaret J     .  \    CHAPTER XXXIV. DEATH OF ERNEST GREY--THE SEA.-SIDE WALK--THE VISIT TO EUROPE- -SCENE IN THE SUIMMER. HOUSE ---IS. HAMLTON. THREE days after the fire, Ernest Grey expired in the arms of Robert Clements, his mind at ease about Steve, and happy in the hope of rejoining the wife he had so loved and lamented. For these three days Robert hardly ever left his bedside, and during that time his mind received a bias that influenced his entire after life. Richard Kane was present at the solemn hour, for Grey, feeling his end ap- proaching, had sent for him, and entreated him to see Steve often, and transfer to the son the friendship he had felt for the father. Immediately after the disaster which we have related in a preceding chapter, Mr. Clements removed to his count ry- house, a  picturesque residence commanding a view of the tumultuous Atlantic. Much sympathy was expressed for him when it was ascertained that there was no insurance on his dwelling, and several business friends proposed to   ERNEST GREY.         315 raise a fund and purchase one, equal in every respect to that which- had been destroyed. This idea was, however, soon abandoned, for Mr. Clements positively refused to accept the offer. "That very night," said Mr. Hamilton, referring to the subject, "a poor family, residing in one of those crowded localities down town, was-burned out, and lost every article belonging to them; but I have not heard of any sympathy for them." "Of course not," remarked Mr. Clements, dryly. "The world is much the same now as it was in Juvenal's day. However, it does not become me to find fault with the method of an intended kindness. Excuse me, Hamilton," he added, rising; "I have business letters to write that admit of no delay." This was just what Mr. Hamilton desired-what he had been hoping for during the last half hour, for he had seen Miss Clements, her cousin,'and Stephen Grey turn down a path that led to the sea-side, and he only waited for an opportunity to follow. "I shall ramble down to the beach," he replied. "Prob- ably when I return you will be disengaged." "You don't intend to leave us to-night?" "No, I rather think not," said Mr. Hamilton, stepping out on the lawn, and walking rapidly in the direction the party had taken.   316       THE SEA-SIDE WALK. It was a lovely summer day, the sky from the zenith to the horizon was a vault of cloudless blue, and the warm rays of the sun were tempered by the cool, refreshing sea- breeze. Far as the eye could reach, the sea was studded with boats, whose oxrs, as they flashed upwards,to the light, shook off the spray in a glittering shower, and fishing- smacks, whose snowy sails glanced in the rays of the de- clining sun.! Sea-birds skimmed along the billows, or dived beneath them for their prey, their strange, melancholy notes blending and harmonizing with the measured stroke of the oar, the ripple of the waves upon the sandy beach, and the sullen dash of the water on the far-off rocks. A lrislk walk brought Mr. Hamilton face to face with the party he was in search of, as they were returning, laden with wild flowers and sea-shells. I' Why, Mr. Hamilton!" exclaimed Emily, " who would have thought of meeting you here.   When did you come?" "About an hour ago ; and as Mr. Clements had letters of importance to write, I came here. to view the sunset. Now I will retrace my steps, and accompany you." "Do not disarrange your plans for us, Mr. Hamilton- that is a stretch of courtesy we have \no right to expect," said Agatha, coldly. "Yes, you shall," interrupted Emily. "I insist upon it. I dearly love to disarrange all sorts of- plans ; so turn your   ERNEST GREY.         317 -back on the sun-it is only a setting sun, and people do that every day." They strolled slowly homewards, talking of sunset and sunrise, moonlight, starlight, "and everylother kind of light," Emily, laughingly asserting, that Fontenelle had frightened away all her girlish passions for moon- beams, and that she was always in terror lest some luna- tic fisherman bending earthward, should drop his line into our atmosphere as she was passing along and pull her up. "If you ever do visit the moon, Emily," said Agatha, laughing, " and are,as highly favored as the Paladin who preceded you, I hope you will bring back some token that you remembered me while in that mystic -receptacle for things lost below." "I certainly shall, but what have you lost? Let me see  I shall bring back Robert's gaiety, my wit, your candor, and Mr. Hamilton's heart." "You will not find it there," said Mr. Hamilton quickly; "it has not fled so far." "It has not?" interrogated Emily. "Well, it is to( heavy for me to carry. However, if you have not lost you heart, you have lost your gallantry, for you haven't sail one word in praise of country air, or alluded remotely t its beautifying effects." And Emily tossed her head an smiled coquettishy.   318      THE SEA-SIDE WALK. "Have I not? Then give me credit for self command, for I lSave thought of little else." Its beautifying effects were very perceptible, for the cousins never looked so lovely in all the pride of fashion, as they did now in their simple white muslin dresses. Their sun-bonnets filled with shells and mosses, were sldng over their arms, and their hair tossed by the wind fell about them in willowy ringlets, amid which were entwined the gay field flowers and " hedge row beauties numberless," they had gathered on their way. The pale peach-like complexion had deepened- into a brilliant bloom, the step was more elastic, and every beauty looked fresher from the contact with nature. "Oh, what a beautiful butterfly!" shouted Steve, run- ning up in pursuit of a magnificent specimen. "Do catch it for me, Emily." "No, no ; let us try who can catch it first," said Emily, and she gave chase to the butterfly, closely followed by Steve. /Here was the opportunity Mr. Hamilton had been long waiting for, and he was not the man to let it pass unim- proved. "Miss Clements," he said, reproachfully; "chance is more propitious to me than you would have been. I have several times entreated that you would grant me an inter- view, though but for five minutes, and now-you are dis-   ERNEST GREY.         319 pleased I see, that I should avail myself of tlins chance, but, even at the risk of incurring your displeasure, I must speak. I have waited for this opportunity-I have sought for it-I cannot let it pass. .Agatha, I love; I have long loved you, not with the fickle passionate love of youth, but with the deeper tenderness of maturer years. My love is not the growth of an hour-it is entwined with every fibre of my heart-it is a part of my being-it can end only with my life." The tone of manly sincerity that gave additional value to every word, and the quiet earnestness of manner that told of deep feeling, pleaded powerfully in his favor. But her own heart pleaded more powerfully still. He did love her after 'all; it was not, as her- sensitive pride had often whispered to her, a feeling of pity for a love-sick girl, who could ..not conceal her feelings, that impelled him to seek an interview, nor a sense of honor towards one whose name had been insultingly coupled with his-no, it was love, love only. This conviction broughot with it such a feeling of rapturous pleasure, that instinctively she dropped her eyes lest they might reveal too much. But for the scene in the ball-room they might be happy. How she wished she -could efface it altogether; but that was impossible, and with the recollection of it came back the torturing, mortifying doubts to which it gave rise. "Mr. Hamilton," she said gravely, "you are laboring   320       THE SEA-SIDE WALK. under a mistake, both in -regard to your own feelings and mine. From the moment we overheard that cruel slander" -it was the first time she alluded to it, and her face glowed like fire--"I knew that you considered this declaration due to me, and knowing this evaded it as long as possible. But now, while I frankly acknowledge the generosity of your conduct, permit to say, that in the present instance your generosity is thrown away, and were it otherwise, a com- pulsory declaration would neither flatter my vanity nor gratify my feelings."   A compulsory declaration!" exclaimed Mr. Hamilton, amazed,--" due to you, Miss Clements I Is it possible, you could entertain such an idea for a moment I I am equally incapable of the lofty disregard of self, and the contemptible vanity you attribute to me. You have alluded to that disagreeable incident-allow me the same liberty. I was on the point of expressing my long cherished love when that occurred. Is it fair, is it just, Miss Clements, to punish me for what others said? Do I, ask too much, when I entreat you to answer me as you would have done, if that had never occurred?" Agatha reddened with anger, for the last sentence sound- ed to her like assuming that at that time, at least, he had power over her heart, and she answered proudly- "Then I would say, let the conversation end here, Mr. Hamilton, in order that we may remain friends."   ERNEST GREY.         32 "You shall be obeyed, Miss Clements," he replied,  the accents of wounded feeling. Silently they walked on, side by side, Mr. Hamilton voe ing in his heart of hearts that, let it cost him what would, he would free himself from this enslaving passior and Agatha, bitterly regretting her ungracious answ( It was a relief to both when Emily andSteve came rmunni up, holding out their, extended hands in. sign of th failure. "What a race we have had after that butterfly," sf Emily, breathlessly; "over hill and over dale, throu bush and brake-there has been nothing equal to it siI Sir Joseph Banks' pursuit of the Emperor of Morocco.' "And has it been equally unsuccessful?" inquired ] Hamilton. "Yes ; the parallel is complete in all points." They had now reached the avenue leading to the hoi and here Mr. Hamilton paused, and begged Miss No to tell her uncle, that lihe was unexpectedly obliged return to the city ; but that he would see him at the ol to-morrow, and courteously saluting both ladies, he tai down the public road.  Before the conveyance to IS York came up, however, he changed his mind, and wa to Mrs. Alworthy's, a distance of two or three miles. did not stay there longer than fifteen minutes, and a passed might be inferred from Mrs. Alu, orthy's remarl   322       GOING TO EUROPE. Miss Clements the following morning. After conversing with her usual fluency on. every conceivable topic, she turned to Agatha, and, in a half whisper, said-- "So .you have discarded George. You need not deny it, for he told me so himself. You did very right, my dear ; very few young girls have your- wisdom. I have no doubt you will do a great deal better---George is not by any means so wealthy as he is reputed to be." "What of Mr. Hamilton?" inquired Emily, anxiously. "I thought I heard you mention his name, Mrs. Al- worthy." "Yes ; I have been speaking of him to Miss Clements. He intends going to Europe next week." Agatha grew deadly pale, and her breath came quick and short. "To Europe," she repeated unconciously. "How long will he stay," asked Emily, indifferently. "Two, or three years, I believe." "Oh, I  do hope he will not go without seeing us. I have a great many commissions for him. I will never for- give him if he does. Tell him so, Mrs. Alworthy." -And I have let such a woman as that influence my con- duct, thought Agatha, with a feeling of self-abasement. I have thought more of-what she would say than what he would suffer,- and I have had my reward. Her sneering tribute to my superior, wisdom, was only what I deserved. "Do better--not so wealthy as he is reputed to be." Could   ERNEST GREY.         3  she say worse, if I had followed the dictates of my hear But why throw the blame on another, and I only in faul As I have -sowed so shall I reap-I must bear what I hav brought upon myself. A week had almost passed since Mr. Hamilton's la visit, and in two days more he would set sail. He woul not surely leave without calling to see them-a mere -a quaintance would not do it. "Here's 'Hamilton!" said Robert, throwing open t] window at which he was standing, and walking .out meet him. "Well, George, when do you start?  Hall( where's Agatha?" Agatha had retreated from the room as soon as s became aware of his approach, fearing that, at the la moment, she might betray herself. But the parlor-wiudo) opened on the garden, and to avoid the possibility of bei: seen, she fled to the rustic summer-house, and there, fr from observation, indulged her sorrow. How long s was there she knew not-judging from what she suffers it might have been a lifetime. ' He must, be gone now," she said, heavily sighing. may return."' N' No, Miss Clements," said Hamilton, sadly, entering he spoke--"I am not gone yet. If I had known tha was so hateful in your gight, I would not have intrud4 Pardon me, and let us be friends. Though I could 1 ;           ,   324    SCENE IN THE SUMMER-HOUSE. gain your heart, let me retain your friendship. Oh, Agatha, you know not the intensity of the love you reject. Forgive me, I did not intend to speak of myself; I came because I could not deny myself the dangerous pleasure of seeing you once again, and hearing you say ' farewell.  Will you not say one kind word at parting?" Agatha -turned round, and Mr. Hamilton was shocked to see the change a few days had. wrought in her appear- ance. She was unnaturally pale, her eyes had- lost their brightness, and looked heavy with sadness, and her lips were firmly compressed, as if she feared her emotion would force a passage through them. "Agatha I Miss Clements!" he exclaimed, deeply af- fected, "why are you so agitated?  Good Heavens! Could it be possible that-" he stopped abruptly. Agatha turned her face away, red -and burning. "Fool that I am!" he said, with bitter self-contempt. "Miss Clements, farewell!" He was gone. Clasping her hands over her eyes, as if to shut out the light, Agatha sank upon the seat, and gave way to a passion of tears. What would she not have given to recall him. "Agatha! dear Agatha!" whispered a voice beside her, as if answering her secret thoughts. She looked up, and uttered an exclamation of joy. He   ERNEST GREY.      -"  325 was there, gazing into her face, his every feature beaming with new-born hope. "Agatha, shall I go or stay?" "Stay," she replied, softly, " for my sake, George." It was the first time she had ever called him by his baptismal name, and none but a lover could understand the value of such a trifle. He reddened with pleasure, and, imprisoning the small, white hands within his, he pas- sidnately replied-7- "Ah, Agatha, what would I not do for your sake. But," he added, his dark, earnest eyes seeking the depths of her's, " be candid with me, Agatha-can you love me?" Her eyes sank before the overpowering gaze of his, and hiding her burning face on his shoulder, she mur- mured- "Not more than I do now." The next moment she was clasped. in his passionate em- brace, and heard his rapturous expressions of joy and gratitude. An hour passed away, and still they sat, too happy in themselves to note the lapse of time. Confidences were exchanged, and while Agatha wondered at the passion she had excited in one so calm, Mr. Hamilton learned with a feeling of pride how long he had been beloved. "Poor Smylie! I pity him," he remarked, compassion- ately, in the first pause of the conversation.   326    SCENE IN THE SUMMER-HOUSE. "Do you?" said Agatha. "So do I, and pity," she added, archly, " 'is akin to love.'" "You cannot alarm me," he said, gaily. "You lhave lost your power." A heavy step was heard approaching, and Mr. Clements exclaimed, angrily-- "Nonsense, Emily-,go without seeing me? I tell you, George wouldn't -do it. But it is very strange." Agatha started to her feet when she -heard her father's voice, and leaned, blushing and trembling, against the window. Mr. Hamilton stood by her side. Mr. Clements entered, lookingthe very personification of astonishment, and Emily's laughing eyes twinkled over his shoulder. You here, and Agatha! . I have been searching for you this half hour, and was beginning to fear that some accident had befallen you." "And so there has, uncle^' said Emily, demurely--" so serious that I fear it will delay his journey." "Miss North is right," said Hamilton, smiling; "and the nature of the accident," he added, anxious to spare Agatha, and allow her time to recovet from the con- fusion her father's unlooked-for appearance had thrown her into--"I will make known to Mr. Clements on our way home." And putting his arm within Mr. Clements', he drew him from the summer-house. In a brief space, however, they   I Al                    f ERNEST GREY.         327 returned, and Mr. Clements, embracing his daughter affec- tionately, expressed his pride and pleasure at the choice she had made. "If I had trusted to my fair ally," said Mr. Hamilton to Emily, as they parted at the door, "what would I have done now?" "TYo   ungrateful, material creature!" replied Emily, reproachfully--"it is results, not intentions, you look at. That's my thanks, after laboring so zealously in your ser- vice; but I'll be packhorse to nobody again-I have learned a lesson." When the family assembled in the evening, Mrs. Clements motioned Mr. Hamilton to a seat beside her, and expressed the pleasure and satisfaction she felt in welcoming him into her family, and then digressing, she promised him several receipts for sea-sickness' which she had no doubt he would find exceedingly efficacious. Mr. Hamilton thanked her, but declined the offer, as he had given up all intention of visiting Europe, for some time, at least. "I am glad of it, my boy," said Robert, coming up and, seizing Hamilton's hands, he shook them as ener- getically as if he were determined to test their strength. "But where's Mrs. Hamilton?  Ah! here she is. How d'ye do, Mrs. H.?" bowing to Agratha. "What a start I bless me! I must have mlade a mistake." "Come, come, Robert," said Mr. Clements, warningly-   328        MRS. HAMLTON. "what have you been doing in the office to-day? Who was there? How is Kane getting along?" "He wasn't there. I hope he has not left." "Oh, I remember," replied Mr. Clements. "tHe will be absent for a few days. He has been getting married to the young girl he saved." "What I pretty Lizzy Roberts," exclaimed Emily, with lively interest. "I am glad of it. He is a brave fellow, and quite good-looking--you ought to think so, Agatha. So she is married. Every-body is getting mar- ried but me. I am half tempted to ask somebody. Who shall I begin with?" "Robert," suggested Mr. Hamilton. "Oh no I I shall keep Robert as a pis aller-I can have him at any time-can't I Robert?" Robert stooped and whispered something in her ear, at which Emily laughed and colored, and immediately changed the conversation.   !                t CHAPTER XXXV. CONCLUSION. "W-HAT an eloquent advocate 1" exclaimed several per- sdns, as they issued from the Court, after the defendant's counsel had concluded his able and brilliant defense. "His fortune's made," said one. "But who is he?" "Can't tell," replied the person addressed. i "I guess this is his first appearance. He'squite young-don't look to be more than twenty-five at the utmost.. But as you say, Iis fortune's made." And they passed on. The trial alluded to was one of unusual interest, for the evidence though strong, was entirely circumstantial, and the accused had up to the moment of his arrest, borne an irreproachable character.  Nevertheless, when his friends saw link added to link in the chain of evidence, and heard the indignant denunciations of the prosecuting counsel, the most sanguine among them began to despair. It was evident that the prisoner shared this feeling, anc looked upon his defense as a form, which could do him n(   330      -   CONCLUSION. good; but when his youthful advocate arose and pro: ceeded to address the jury, his countenance underwent a change, and briaghtened with- reviving hope. And well it might, for never was such a defense heard within the walls of that Court-house, so eloquent, so profound, so earnest, so logical. It seemed as if. the case had aroused the feelings of the man as well as the professional pride of the lawyer, for more than once, he paused in the midst of all affecting passage as much moved as his hearers, and then proceeded with redoubled force to overthrow the arguments of the opposing counsel, to expose the fallacy of his reasoning -and the erroneousness of his conclusions. It was a brilliant speech, and yet the lawyer was never merged in the advocate, declamation was never substituted for argument nor did-appeals to the feelings supercede dispassionate appeals to the judgment. It was eminently successful, and as the speaker resumed h'is seat, his friends crowded round him to offer their con- gratulations. Foremost among them was Mr. Clements and his son, both twenty years older than when we saw them last, and consequently much changed.  Both had listened with anxious interest to the lawyers opening exor- dum, but as he proceeded, his cogent reasoning, receiving additional force from his clear lucid-style, their interest deepened, and anxiety gave way to admiration. The jury rendered a verdict of acquittal without leaving   ERNEST GREY.         331 their seats, and the' successful lawyer, disengaging himself from his friends hastened homewards, a shade of sadness mingling with, and tempering the elation of a first success. An elderly woman opened the door for him, whose eager questioninmg face precluded the necessity of speaking. "Al's right I I have gained the day, Mrs. Fitzgerald," he said, smilingc. "Now are you satisfied?" "Sure I knew you would beat them all," she replied, with joyful exultation. "And why wouldn't you?  I never expected anything else. And young Mr. Clements told me that if you gained this case it would be the making of you." "Well, perhaps it will; but all the wealth of the world could not afford ine so pure a gratification as the look of heartfelt gratitude, and the half-uttered ' God bless you' of my poor client's wife. It reminded me " "Well, well," interrupted Mrs. Fitzgerald, "that's all past and gone long ago. You must not 'be thinking of these things. I suppose," she added cheerfully, anxious to divert his thoughlts into another channel-"I suppose you'll be getting a fine house after a while, and somebody to mind it--eh, Stephen? and then I may leave." "You!" exilaimed Stephen Grey, for the learned and brilliant lawyer was'the son of the convict Ernest ;-"no, no, not for all the world," he said, deeply affected, " would I part with one who was my friend when I had no friend   332         CONCLUSION. besides. But the woman I marry will never say, nor do,. nor think anything wrong. She will be a model of per- fection." "Then you ought to marry Margaret Kane." "Ought I?" said Stephen, with a half laugh, and the suspicion of a blush. "Well, who knows? I might do worse." "Indeed, you might," she replied, emphatically; "and then her father is so wealthy. He must be, for it is a good many years now since old Mr. Clements left the business to him and his son." "Very true, Mrs. Fitzgerald," said Steplhen,laughing heartily. "That's enough. I'll go this moment to Mr. Kane, and get a fortune at once, without working for it." "Now here's some one to- prevent you," she said, as a loud ring at the door interrupted the conversation. The next moment a man of middle age entered the room with all the familiarity of an old friend, and seizing Ste- phen's two hands shook them again and again, congratu- lating him, at the same time, on his brilliant success. "Clements told me you electrified the Court." "Why were you not there yourself, Mr. Kane?" inquired Mrs. Fitzgerald. "Because I couldn't possibly get away," he replied; "but miy Ernest was there," he added, addressing Stephen, "and he thought you so great a man, so different from the   ERNEST GREY,         333 Stephen Grey he saw yesterday, that he would hardly venture to speak to you." Stephen laughed. "It is a fact," said Kane, "and I laughed, too, when he told me. But I must be 6ff. I ran in merely to con- gratulate you. Clements says he wishes you to see those men he was speaking of, and try what can be done -for them." "I will," said Stephen; "bnt stay a little, Mr. Kane; I am, going with you. I want to see-Mrs. Kane and the young ladies." "Well, come along." As, they were leaving the, door, Mrs. Fitzgerald pulled Stephen back, and with a look of deep significance, bade him "God speed." To this he replied with a look of equal meaning, and a shake of the head, but what that denoted we cannot tell. Perhaps he meant he did not intend to try his luck, perhaps that he feared to try it; but if so, he must have conquered his fears and reconsidered his intentions,jfor not many months after, there was a wedding party at Richard Kane's, and the bridegroom was Stephen Grey. Of Robert Clements we must say a few words. From the time of Ernest Grey's death he devoted himself, with untiring perseverance, to ameliorate the condition of those broken branches of the social tree, those lopped-off members   34    .     CONCLUSION. of the body politic-prisoners and discharged convicts. In this he was ably seconded by his wife, our old friend Emily, whose gay and laughter-loviung disposition concealed a heart alive to every noble impulse. Many an erring fellow-crea- ture had reason to bless his name ; many a reformed crimi- nal,- rescued through his agency, lived to amend the error of his ways, and to repair the evil his example had done to society. Margaret Linwood passed her life with Richard and Lizzy, looked upon -by both as a beloved member of the family, and idolized by the children with a love scarcely inferior to that they felt for their mother. She was their initructress and confidant, the sharer in all their childish amusements, and the depository of all their childish troubles. She loved them all, but her namesake, Margaret, a beauti- ful and accomplished girl, who united her mother's gentle- ness with her father's gaiety, was her especial favorite. She shared all the household cares with Lizzy, hepedl to regu- late the domestic expenditure of their first establishment, with a strict regard to economy, and rejoiced to see Richard become every year more prosperous and respected. Happy in the happiness of others, and in the cultivation of her own mind,: Margaret Linwood's life -passed pleasantly away, and heidEath was cheered by the consciousness of duties unos- t(tiously performed. Mr. aind: Mrs. H milton visited the storied lands of   ERNEST GREY.         335 Europe, lingered amid the ruins haunted by the spirits of the majestic Past; wandered by the banks of the Heli- con, or glided through the streets of Venice; and then, their minds imbued with the legendary lore and sunset glories of the Old World, returned with a deeper love to their home in the New-the Land of Washington, and -the Cradle of the Future. THE END.    
         
       
   
