
    ----CITATION----
        Stanton, Benjamin F.. The Haps and Mishaps of the Three Jolly Students .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7900
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The haps and mishaps of the three jolly students 
            
               Vjub(4t at tie 3 equ5t of ~pt~~u  dns
q/7/A ICTW             IZ,


c  e  rxa 4!aj  tdt

2o the past and present .Members
of the

CLUB
2his book is most respectf/iy dedicated by
the compiler,
H 4LA4E .TF.2,.d.. 

A few weeks ago three students dwelling in this
goodly city of ours, having wearied their brains by
studying hard days and playing cribbage late nights,
sort to recuperate their overtaxed powers by making
a trip to the mountains. These three worthies were
known by the names of King Charles, Prince Albert
and Doctor Johns. After due consideration and long
deliberation they came to the conclusion that,.inas-
much as their legs were, just then, longer than their
purses, it would be inexpedient to incur the -expense
of riding. 'They therefore decided to "huff it," (we
use the clasasic language of King Charles.)
Behold them then, on the morning of June 13,
1866, preparing to start on their travels. They are
packing their baggage in a wagon, to which is at-
tached a gallant steed.
This  s the      and this             before
gallant steed    the wagon            mentioned
Illustrations of         the baggage which
a portion of             they carried.
About 9 o'clock they started on their winding way
watched by a few friends and many strangers. .Va
rious were the comments made by curious bystanid-

'

f


At

4
ers as the party moved away. Some said they were
hard characters whom the police jlge, in the kind-
ness of his heart, had granted penisiiiioi to leave
the cityfin one hour; others thought they were gyp-
sies wh' had been on a thieving tour and were now
returning to their tribe ; but the prevalent opinion
was that they were Fenians about to invade Canada.
But however much the crowd differed as to the object
of our heroes, it was unanimous upon one point, viz,
that they were three tough looking cusses.
We propose only to make a note here and there as
we follow our travelers on their journey.
Nothing of moment occurred the first day. As
theywended their way through the classic grounds
of Hooksett, passing that virtuous retreat-ihe
halfway house-and on through Pembroke with its
many sacred spots, they saw the green grass growing,
the yellow grain waving, (or at least it will be yellow
when ripe), and the gentle herd feeding by the road-
side.*
The gentle     herd feeding       by the roadside.
Our tourists tented out the first night in a barn
kindly loaned to them by an obliging' farI -'- the
rain forbidding them to tent out of doors."*  They
were awakened early in the morning by the shrill
crow of chanticleer, more commonly called rooster.
The cock        that crew.
Resuming their march they passed along the shore
bf the beautiful lake Winnipesawkee, upon   the
S    d gw      pshire 4dvertiser, June 2, 1866.

5
bosom of which floated the steamer Lady of the take
as gracefully as a goose upon a frog-pond; while just
before then moving slowly over the road was the old
stage coach, 110w superceded almost every where by
the railcar and steamboat.
The swift float-            _     the slw crawling
ing steamer,                       stage-coach,
and
the lightning                     ie express train.
On the fourth day they found their first fishing.-
They had a good many bites at their faces by black
flies, and a few at their hooks by small fishes.
This fish was caught  and this one by
by King Charles,    1)'. Johns,
While this dog came devlish near
catching Prince0 Albert.  [The reader will
at once notice the absence of the greater part
of the dog. The fact is, the dog saw the Prince was mak-
ing such good time that he would soon be cut of sight un-
less he (the doe) ran faster,'and that he might do so he
16f1 his body'behind, while his head continued the chase.
When the above cut was taken the body had not arrived,
consequently only the head could be sketched.]
hiat night they pitched. their tent in a beautiful
spot on the borders of the lake, beneath the friendly
shade of a huge oak tree. As they neared the wel-
comed spot a noble eagle-." king of birds " etc:.
rose majestically from out its broad branches and
soared away. They saw him for full ten minutes af-
ter he was out of sight rising higher and higher and
wiukiug at them frst with one eye and then the otlh


6

7

er, as if he would say, " Don't you wish you could
follow."
soaring eagle
The hugh    oak tree and the      what winked.
The next morning our travelers took an early start
and soon found themselves entering North Conway,
"the prettiest village we have yet passed."*  So
beautifully is this village "in the Saco river" describ-
ed hy the'Prince iii his private note-book, that we
cannot refrain from making a brief extract. He
says: " Every hotel without a sign is a house ; piaz-
zas and pianos ornament the dwellings, and f resli
white paint and green blinds are seen in the rooms,
while the inhabitants bear a strong resenibimee to
the high-priced patent medicine bottles labelled Do
me and P'll try you good.' "*
We next introduce our heroes to the reader camp-
ing near Newry, Maine. This is a thriving village-
in the north part of the Pine Tree State, consisting
of three houses and a sawmilll.  The inhabitants
The village of               Newry, Maine.
subsist mostly upon "spruce gum and black-flies, as
big as hornets do abound." Near this place one of
our tourists nearly lost his life (perhaps.) The Dr.
started out one morning with his gun with the in-
tention of shooting a partridge for dinner. The
natives had told some big stories about bears, and
* NoTE. -We are aware this extract reads differently in
the Advertiser of June 28, but we claim that the above is
exactly as the description appears in the note-book. What
condition the writer was in when the notes were taken we
leave th6 reader tojudge.

the Doctor kept a bright lookout lest he might run
against one of those savage" critters." The snap
ping of a branch, the rustling of a leaf or the dis-
tant murmur of the babbling brook, were to his fev-
ered imagination ominous sounds which portended
danger. After half an hour's travel he reached a
spot from Which the wood had been clear a few years
before, but which was now thickly covered with scrub
oaks and other low bush s. " Here," thought the
Doctor, "is the place for bears!" Just as the tho't
tashedtherough his mind he heard a rustling in a
thicket near him. For a moment the power of mo-
tiol seemed to leave hin i--is knees smote together,
while his trembling hiid could .car'cely hold his gun.
With nevrous trepidation le discharged his piece;
then turned and ran. Ran with the spied of the
frightened deer, when lie hear the deep bay of the
hound, or like the little ragged urchin seen steal,
ing his mother's preserves, who knows full well if
caught he will get a sound spanliking; ran like-
iikc--.--ike the devil, and never ceased running
until lie arrived, in camp; when lie immediately
fainted. His sudden advent in tle'midst of his com-
panions filled them with consternation. King Charles
with wonderful presence of mind, dashed a dipper-
ful of hot water in his face, while Prince Albert seiz-
a poker and commenced pounding him "to keep up
a circulation of the -blood." Under this (s)killful
practice the Doctor soon began to rally and in a short
time was sufficiently recovered to tell his story.-
"My dear friends," the Doctor said, "congratulate
me upon my lucky esape from a terrible, horrible
death. I have been chased by a er Ybe0, boysiby
4 BEAU   ! and had I not discharged ny gua full ii

r.


!
,
3
}a
_
i
1
k
N
1
t
z

8
his face and thus checked him in his course, I should
now have been. food for cubs. It was a monstrous
BEAR, [the Dr. always empasized this word] as
large as an ox !"  "Are you sure you killed him?'"
inquried the Prince. " Of course 1 kill him. I wait-
ed until I could see the ' white of his eyes ' and then
fired." " If you killed the bear why did you run,"
querried the King. " Why did I ril? Why [-I
thought he might have some near relatives about
there!"  A proposition was now made by the King
that the partygo out and secre a portion the beat
for sippCi.
Gentle reader ! did'st thou ever see the fierce sav-
age of the forest in lii native wild, as he followed the
trail of his eternal foe, the pale face ? See how slow-
ly and noiselessly he moves along! With what care
he notes every twig and every spire of grass ! How
quickly he stops, how anxiously he looks around, and
how earnestly he listens if but the slightest noise ho
hears! He knows not but the next moment his dead-
ly enemy imay be upon himi  If'thou has't seen him
thus thou can s't form som6e idea of the cautiouis man-
ner in which our three worthies approached the spot
ivhichh ie Doctor pointed our-as the place where he
had nearly lost his life in the pursuit of-a dinner.
It is a momentous period, in the life of all! A bear
znay spring upon them at an y iouieit, and their
bones, divested of flesh by the cruel teeth of cubs,
lie unbaried---bleaching in the boundless forest which
surrounds Newry, Maine!! As the1 tourists stand
close to a bunch of bushes behind winch the bear lay,
they form a picture which woi d rejoice the heart oft
an artist. On the right etoo9l Prince Albert armed wichi
Slong lnife; at his left stood King. Charles with a

huge stake in his hand, while Dr. Johns brought up
the rear bearing the gun, the muzzle of which pointed
exactly at the Prince's stern, and if it had been dis-
charged his pants would have needed to be re-seated,
although HE might object to being seated at all. Now
the Prince takes off his spectacles and wipes the glass-
es on his coat-tail, that he might the more readily see
danger and be first to run. Gently he parts the
branches and peers over and beholds-A HOG quiet-
ly sleeping!  "SAFE! WE ARE SAFE! !" the
three exclaimed as with one voice. The King and
the Prince looked at the Doctor. The King said "I'll
take whisky;" the, Prince said "Let mine be brandy ;"
the Doctor said "All right-at the next tavern." And
that's the reason why the bear adventured did not ap-
pear in the letters of the excursionists.
What 'the     Dr. said he What he
Whattheshot.       really did 1   shoot-at d
We have space to chronicle but one more' of the
many interesting adventures through which our
friends passed. When near the Canada line they
were halted by a squad of soldiers and arrested for
Fenian invaders of Canada. In vain the Doctor
protested. against and swore about the outrage ; in
vain the Prince argued at great length the laws of
nations bearing upon this point, the reciprocity trea-
ty, etc.;.,in vain the King wrung his hands, and wept
and blubbered, and finally fainted--the soldier knew
his duty and was bound to perform it. Unexpected
deliverance came, however, in the shape of the offi-
The U.S. soldiers.   and     officer of the day.
cer of the day. He ordered their discharge at once,

A

I


10
"For," said he, "such a cowardly looking set of rag-
rhuffins can do no harm. They may frighten the old
women and children-and truly they look bad enough
to scare the devil-but will never fight."  With
grateful hearts our wanderers pursued their way and
soon the Old Man of the Mountain broke upon their
view.
Old Man of the Mountain as  he appeared to the tourists
After spending a few days around the Mountains
our travelers moved westward with the purpose of
passing into Vermont. When they, arrived at the
Connecticut river they found a toll-bridge interposed
between themselves and the Green Mountain State.'
This was an unexpected barrier. Pockets were search-
ed in vain for six cents to pay the toll, but only half
enough could be found, and with sorrowful hearts
they turned back.
[It has sorely tried our patience and eyes to de-
cipher the last few pages of the Prince's manuscript.
In fact, some portions we have supplied, the Mss.
being made up of broken sentences. Whether this
was caused by the' writer's long exposure to the
weather or by partaking too freely of Canada whisky
we do not see fit to hazzard even a conjecture. Be-
low we give a sample page from his note-book, to
show the reader the great disadvantages we labored
under in the compilation of this Work. A few ex-
planatory words will be found in brackets.]
First night in the Green [Mountain] State-Pret-
ty village situated picturesquely'upon the banks of
the "Father of Waters" [the Prince's ideas of local-

I-                                     s

I,

I

11
ity is evidently confused] inhabitants painted white
and houses very courteous-Left W. the day we
did    Followed down the bed [valley ?] of the riv-
er    passed many pretty farm-houses, before the
doors of which long rows of shining milk-maids
[pans] were spread out to dry, preparatory to receiv-
ing the milk which the dairy-pans -[maids] would
draw from the "sweet-breathed cow" [the Prince
gives no credit for the above quotation,] in the even-
ing. As we moved along the nimble birds skipped
about beneath our heads and the squirrels flew above
our feet. [Was the Prince standing upon his head ?]
Just crossed a splendid trout brook  saw a beauti-
ful farmer's daughter [beautiful probably refers to
the daughter and not the farmer] -had a devilish
pretty leg    wonder how it is further up ? [he
doubtless has reference to the trout brook, as is evi-
dent from the next sentence] should like to fish
there.   This day came to Concord-neat little vil-
lage, but think the citizens are much given to drink,
the King, Doctor and myself being the only sober
people in town.-Kimball took our picture; should
think he was awful drunk, as he requested us to sit
in an arm chair so our bodies would not see-saw---
Got very good likeness of my companions but failed
decidedly in my own case, inasmuch as he left out
all the surprising beauty with which kind Providence
has blessed me--Took a little whisky at the Phenix,
a little more at the Eagle and considerable at the
American ; after which the people of Concord were
drunker than before-    Found our team and, after
enquiring the way, started for Manchester, thinking
that if Concord was n't rained upon like Sodom and
Pompeii, why then there was no use in Lot being

I


12
turned into a pillar of salt, a camel hung about his
neck and pitched into a whale where a sea swallowed
him up, after which Moses smote him hip and heels-
over-head he went into the Isle of Patmos where
poison serpents do abound. [The Prince's head was
somewhat muddled when he wrote the above.]-
We next found ourselves -  [Here the notes ab-
ruptly end,.but'with the liberty of a compiler we
shall finish the sentence with--"too d-d drunk to
write, talk or think."]
In due time the wanderers reached their homes
much the worse for wear, where they were warmly
welcomed by their numerous creditors and friends.
We conclude our illustrations with a picture showing
the very affectionate manner in which his dear
AMANDA EMBBACED THE DOCTOR.


  
             
         
       
   
