
    ----CITATION----
        Perce, Elbert, (1831-1869). Gulliver Joi .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7414
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Gulliver Joi 
            
                 
                  GULLIVER JOI: HIS THREE VOYAGES; BEING AN ACCOUNT OF HIS MARVELOUS ADVEN. TURES  7I A0TT0,; HYDBOGENIA AND EJABRIO. EDITED BY ELBERT    PERCE. NEW YORK: CHARLES SCRIBNER, 145 NASSAU STREET. 1851.   Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1851, by CHARLES 8C R IBNER, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York. C. W. BENEDICT, Stereotyper and Printer, 201 William Street.   TO THE EDITOR. YOUNG SIR:--In compliance with your request, 'I forward the memorandum-books, in which I kept the account of my three voyages. You are at liberty to use them as you see fit With high esteem, Your obedient servant, G. JOI.   CONTENTS. VOYAGE TO KAILOO. PAGS CHAPTER I. My early life-The old portrait-Bag of gold--"Thou shalt not, steal"-My father)s death-For Canton, hoi! --A catastrophe-The old man of 'the rock--Gold! gold! gold  ,   .              13 -CHAPTER it. The crucible--My employment--The planet-Proposals to visit it-Malleable flame-An explosion-The cylin- der-Ready HVoyage through the air-Kailoo,   . .26 CHAPTER III. A lady-I am enlterained by her-Visit the city of Tznmey-Intropduced to the Governor--My instrtor -Singular book-I succeed in learning the language, . 37   ri          CONTENTS. PAGB CHAPTER IV. in arithmetrical table-Explanation-The "tirsh2 -- Rapid travelling-Dinner-Rude conduct of a young lady--The old gentleman-Arrival at the capital of Kailoo,.    .   ..         .   . 48 CHAPTER V. Fisit Colorondo-A musical instrument-Miss Colorondo -Paintings--A surprise,   .   .   .   .60 CHAPTER VI. itory of Colorondo)s adventures-Our walk-Remains  of a ship-The burial spot of Colorondos comrades- I am fond of flowers-Visit the king-The carlet paper, " CHAPTER VII. Dine with the king-Discussion with his majesty--A  ciowd-Startling occurrence-Fishing,.   .   . 86 CHAPTER VIII. rhe lake-Craeko meets rith an accident-Conversation about American  ladies-Terrific combat between Cracko and a most singular monster-Courageous           X behavior of Miss Colorondo-Return to the city--  Visit a meeting of conspirators-A sad accident, . 98 CHAPTER IX..                  . Misfortune'never comes single-I am charged with treason       X --Confront my accuser-His confusion and punishment -Return to earth-Conclusion of my first voyage, . 110    CoNTEffNiS* ivi VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA. CHAPTER I. Arrival at New Orleans--An old friend-Preparations for revisiting the planet Kailoo-The balloon-My voyage --Safe arrival at Kailoo-The manuscript, .   .121 CHAPTER II. Determination of searching for Martha-My sudden transit from Kailoo to Hydrogenia-Description of a Hydrogenian-A 'urprise-Hydrogenian lady-Maldi Fremung-Dinner-Hydrogenian book,     .   - 131 CHAPTER III. I learn the language-The Mollowog-A     card-An extract from a Hydrogenian news-sheet-I am to be exhibited,   .   .   .   .   .   . 142' CHAPTER IV. Extract from the "Noibla"--I hear of Martha-Conver. sation with Berletta-Good news,     .   . 152 CHAPTER V. Letter from Martha-Proposition to Maldi Fremung-- Preparations for receiving Martha-Kind-hearted Ber- letta-Disappointment,.   .   .   .   . 162 !t   v2ii         CONTENTS. FAGS CHAPTER VI. Visit the king-His cruel experiment-An accident-"I have some news for you'--Hopes of escaping from Hydrogenia-Quarrel with Maldi Fremung-A drunk- en frolic-The king's court-yard,  .      . 168 CHAPTER VII. Escape-The pursuit-We are safe-Arrival at Barbarum -The landlady-I receive protection from the Barba- run government,          .   .   .183 *i CHAPTER VIII. News from Martha-Convenation with Mr. Filim-- Happy meeting--Martha's adventures--Civilize! civi- lize HAre about returning to Kailoo-Parting with Berletta and Franzlet-Home-The re-union-Chem- ical dissertation-Return to earth,    .   .192 $Lijli.   aOMTENTS.            ix VOYAGE TO EJARIO. CHAPTER   I. I am married-The yacht-Commencement of the voy- age-Overboard-Thrown upon an island-The Ejari- oans-Novel method of testing courage.   .   . 215 CHAPTER II. The palace-Prince Tommo-Badge of the Dragonitea- Initiation into the mysteries of the Dragonites-Legend of the golden dragon, and magic breeches-Cortelia- The brave hunters and the white deer-The dragon, . 225 CHAPTER III. The dragon and the maiden-Cortelia presents the king with the white deer-The magic breeches-She is entertained by the dragon--An assemblage-An altar is raised-Punishment of the king, .   .   .235 CHAPTER IV. A change-Conclusion of the legend--Proposal from Prince Tommo--I agree to rit-The grand review-A serenade,   .   .   .   .        244   X Z CONTENTS* IPAGg CHAPTER V. Terrible battle between the Ejarioans and the Cortelians -I am worsted- Departure for the Dragon's cave- The dwarf-Enter the cave--Successful-The battle- field-Change of affairs-King Tabolin the Cruel- His singular death,  .   .  :    .   . 254 CHAPTER VI: I obey the command of King Tabolin-A ship is built- I set sail-Arrive home-All is well-C onclusion, . 268   VOYAGE THE FIRST. TO 'KAILOO.    VOYAGE TO KAILOO. CHAPTER I. IT has been said by a somewhat celebrated author, that love of adventure is hereditary, and never more has this saying been verified than in my own life, Although my father was but a poor shoe-maker, that never strayed from his own native village, still, my great great great grandfather on my mother's side, after whom I have the honor of being named, was an inveterate :traveller, as may be seen by perusing his life, written by an eminent divine long since departed this life. At the age of sixteen I became disgusted with the low work of a shoe shop, and having   1G OIULV LI E JOr. contracted the pernicious habit of reading novels, and those of the most exciting char- acter, I became fully impressed with the idea that I was destined to become a great man. My father having lived so long in the small village upon the banks of the Hudson, where I was born, had lost all ambition, save that of hoarding money. Of my mother I knew nothing, save that which was related of her by my father, who often pointed to an old dust- covered portrait of a very stern-looking matron, assuring me that it was the portrait of my mother. I did not look upon the picture with love, but with a sensation of fear, and in fact was impressed with the idea that the spirit of my mother inhabited it. "Why," reasoned I with myself, " why does it gaze at me so angrily, if the spirit of my mother is not there? I must have done some- thing wrong." Then sometimes the portrait would appear to look mildly, and even lovingly at me, and tears of joy would start to my eyes at the thought that my mother approved of me. This belief was strengthened by my perceiving   VOYAGE TO KAILOO.     15 that the eyes seemed to follow me wherever I went in the room. And, moreover, my father confirmed it, by assuring me that the spirit of my mother did in reality inhabit the picture, and should I presume to move the frame, it would certainly speak to me. This haunted my imagination until I was devoured by an insatiable curiosity to move it. "Surely," thought I, "my mother will do me no harm; ",perhaps she wishes to speak to me, and may give me good advice." Thus reasoning, I came to the conclusion to move the picture at all hazards. One summer afternoon my father left the shop in my charge, while he carried a pair of boots, just finished, to a rich old farmer that resided about two miles from the village. I well knew that my father would not hire a horse, and was so generally disliked by his neighbors that none of them would lend him' one. Certain of this, and knowing I had sufficient time, I determined upon moving the picture that afternoon. Shut- ting the doors of the shop and locking them, with trembling hand I opened the small glass door that led into the parlor. How dark it   16      A  dGUIEK JOT. looked in that little dusky parlor. The blinds were closely fastened, and the furniture all thicMy covered with dust. The portrait hung directly opposite the door, so that the light fell full upon its face, appearing to my distorted imagination as though it was endowed with life. I beat my bosom with my clenched hand to renew my courage; then mounting upon a chair, attempted to move the picture, when a large bag fell from behind ithtriking upon the floor with a chinking sound. Stooping to examine it, I found it to be' a leather bag nearly full of bright golden coins. I looked at them for a moment, and then the thought flashed through my mind--take them and leave your father; it will never be known. But la small, still voice seemed to whisper in my ear: "Thou shalt not steal!" And I placed them back in their resting place, returning to the shop with a lightened heart, at the thought of having resisted and overcome evil. I had sat bending over my work but a few minutes, when a great crowd of villagers came thronging around the door. Four of them entered the shop, bearing upon a   VOYAGE TO xMrO.  1 plank the dead body of my father, which they had found in a small creek, into which he had fallen and was drowned. This was the only account I ever received, which was related by a sympathising neighbor that was present at the coroner's inquest. Thus, by the sudden death of my poor father, I was left alone in the world, but the treasure I had found in the old portrait, left me indepen- dent to follow my own desires. I offered my shop for sale, which was bought by a young neighbor, who was a gainer by the transaction, as I was not much of a tradesnman. I secured my bag of gold, which, upon-closer examina- tion, proved to be Dutch coins, "guilders," and upon computing them, found that I was the Bs*sessor of a fortune of about five hundred dollars. I determined that I would go to sea. In my novel readings-I had read much of sea-adven- tures, and my heart yearned to experience them. I therefore immediately started for the city of New York, leaving my native village without regret, having formed no attachments either for its inhabitants or localities. Having   18      Goa  krvER JOI. arrived at New York, all I saw was new, and I was delighted for a short time with the gaiety and bustle of the city, but having no acquain- tances, the excitement soon passed, and I was more eager to reach the scenes of my future adventures. While rambling among the ship- ping, I saw upon the rigging of one of the vessels, the announcement, "For Canton." "That's the' ship," thought I, and immediately went on board to engage my passage. I found the captain in the cabin, and having stated my wish to engage passage with him, he inquired if I could write. I answered in the affirmative; whereupon, after giving him a sample of my penmanship, he said he wished for just such a lad as I, to write his log up, and that if I woe go, he would give me four dollars a month anr. my passage. I immediately accepted the offer, and having sent for my trunk, which was at my boarding-house, I determined to remain on board until the vessel sailed, which was advertised to be on the next day. Nevertheless, it was several days before we had a fair wind, but at last when my patience was almost exhausted, and I had nearly given up hopes of   VOYAGE rTO KAMLOO.     19 sailing at all, the captain gave orders, and we were soon upon the blue waves of the Atlantic. I shall not describe the routine of a voyage at sea, but will hasten over several weeks, during which time I was employed in writing upon the captain's log, a sort of journal of daily events. One day I was amusing myself by watching the dolphins, as they gambolled beneath the bow of our vessel. The sea was as smooth as a mirror-just enough wind to give the ship good steering-way. Suddenly a dark cloud appeared upon the horizon, and sweeping towards the vessel, the captain perceiving it, gave orders that the sails should be taken in, but before they were obeyed, the squall struck the vessel, and she was thrown upon her beam ends, and I fell from where I had been stand- ing, upon the bow, into the sea; and after sinking to a great depth under the water, I rose to the surface much exhausted, and panting for breath. At a short distance from me I saw a large rock, which protruded itself some distance above the water. I hastily swam towards it, and with great difficulty contrived to gain its summit. I found it entirely barren. It was   20      GEuIvk JOL. of a circular form, and could not have been more than fifty feet in circumference. I 'looked out upon the ocean, in the hopes of finding my companions, but could see no signs  of vessel or crew. The sudden shock must have swamped the ship, and the crew most undoubtedly went down with her. In passing around the ledge of the rock I discovered a large opening just above the water's edge, apparently leading into the centre of the rock, and was about entering it, when I was startled by a loud voice from the interior: "Ho! Ceberus, to the entrance!" A rattling sound then followed, and a huge black bear, around whose neck was suspended an iron chain, rushed at me with open mout I started back in terror at this fearful reception, but the monster's chain was not of sufficient length to allow hin to injure me. The same voice now addressed me from the dark depths of the cavern: "Who art thou?" I gave him my name, and why I came to the island. After concluding, I heard a stamping sound, somewhat like the sound made by a   VOYAGE TO RKArLO.     21 goat when walking upon a stone floor, and the owner of the gruff voice stood before me. THe appeared to be a very old man. His black beard was long, nearly descending to his girdle-his hair was thin and very white-his eyes blue and nearly concealed by large swollen eyelids, which were entirely divested of eye- lashes. He had in place of legs two wooden stumps, pointed with iron, producing when he walked, the clattering sound I had heard. He gazed at me in silence for some time, then muttering to hiniself, "he'll do," beckoned- me to follow him, which I lost no time in doing. Descending a narrow stair-case, cut in the solid rock, we arrived at a room which must have been under the surface of the water. It was about twelve feet square. Various door-shaped openings placed at regular intervals around the sides of the room, proved that this was not the only apartment. Hanging from  the walls, were telescopes, quadrants, and other astro- nomical instruments, and upon a large stone table, placed in the centre of the room, was a huge celestial globe. In one corner of the room was placed a large hollow cylinder, sharp   22    -  GULIVrB JOI. pointed at one end, and mounted with a vane at the other. I had scarcely time to observe these objects, when the old man, pointing to a chair, bade me be seated. "I have long," said he, "wished for a companion, or an assistant, one who will serve me faithfully, and, if you choose, I would like to have you. There is no way by which you can escape from this island without my aid, as it is never visited by vessels, unless like yours they are driven out of their regular course. If you will follow my directions implicitly, without questioning my motives, I have it in my power to amply reward you." Thus saying, he opened a small trap-door, and disclosed to my astonished gaze heaps upon heaps of golden coin and precious stones, I never before dreamed that I should see so much wealth. I confess the thought once came across me to assault the old man and rob him of the treasure; the large amount so dazzled my eyes; this is the only excuse I have for so thinking, for I have naturally a very tender conscience. It was merely a passing thought, however, for the next moment I   VOYAGE TO EA  o.     23 repelled the idea with disgust. The old man seemed to have fathomed my thoughts. "You think," said he, " that you might be able to slay me, and then take the treasure; but ere you attempt it, feel of imy arm," at the same time extending his arm for my inspection. I felt of it. The muscles stood out, so that when I pressed my fingers closely around it, they felt like bundles of steel wire. "Lift that stone," said he, pointing to a large globe-shaped rock, lying at my feet. I at- tempted it in vain. Laughing at my endeavors, he seized the stone and tossed it from hand to hand with as much apparent ease as a boy would a marble. "Dismiss all thoughts," he continued, "of obtaining any portion of that treasure without my sanction, but apply yourself to my instruc- tion, and part of it shall be yours." He then entered an adjoining room, and soon returned, bearing several large books in his arms. Opening one, he pointed out a passage which should serve me as my morning lesson, and then left me to my stues. I   24      oGULLVER JOI. never was a studious scholar; in fact I was always considered the veriest dunce in school. Therefore, it was with no great satisfaction that I turned to the enormous book before me. But the love of gold, if not the thirst after know- ledge, overcame the repugnance, and I dili- gently applied myself to the task. Upon examination, I found that the book was not printed, but written in a bold, clear hand. To my surprise, I did not become fatigued with my task. No! I read, and re-read, and as I followed the writer through his explanations and descriptions of the complex arrangements of the heavenly bodies, I became interested in spite of myself, and would have liked to have read more, but at the very moment when I had arrived at the line where he had said my lesson should cease, he entered the room, and taking the book from me, carried it into the other apartment. Returning, he suddenly and loudly clapped his hands together, at which signal, a large rock at the farther end of the chamber turned over, as on a pivot, and another room was exposed, in which were placed two small   VOYAGE TO KAILOO.     25 tables, covered with food. At a signal from the old man, I accompanied him into the room, and sat down to the best meal that I had tasted since leaving my own country. *v g'M   TTAPlTEK II. AwsKr concluding our dinner, which was eaten in silence, the old man requested me to follow him. Rising from the table, he con- ducted me into another apartment, and bade me watch a large crucible in which a dark red- colored fluid was boiling vigorously, over a fire placed in the centre of the room, which burned without smoke. To prevent the contents of the crucible from boiling over, I had a long copper rod, which, whenever the fluid reached a certain mark, I was to plunge into the centre of the crucible, when it would immediately sub- side to its proper place. The bear that had caused me so much terror on my entrance to the cavern, had become quite attached to me, lying by my   side, and giving a satisfactory   VOYACE TO KATr OO.    2 grunt whenever I patted his rough, hairy head. Thus I employed my time. The morning was passed chiefly in reading such portions in the written books as my instructor would point out to me as a lesson. During the afternoon, I took charge of the crucible and its contents. Meanwhile the old man was busily engaged in an adjoining closet; but what he was doing I could not discover; for, although I frequently asked him why he thus labored alone in this solitary rock, instead of enjoying the pleasures of the world, as a man of his immense wealth should, I invariably received a stern rebuke for my presumption. As soon as the sun had gone down, the old man would take his globe and telescope, and bidding me follow him, would ascend to the top of the rock, and plac- ing his globe by his side, then adjusting his telescope, would earnestly gaze into the starry heavens, ever and anon stopping to note upon the globe -whatever he discovered in the heavens. "Do you see that star?" said he to me one fine evening, at the same time pointing to a star of uncommon brilliancy.  I answered in   28       GULLIVER JOI. the affirmative. Hie then adjusted the focus of his telescope, and bade me look through it. I did so; and to my surprise, the star appeared like earth itself. The power of the telescope was so great, that the star filled the whole field of vision; and I could distinctly see mountains and rivers, and could fancy that I saw moving beings. I was delighted. The old man smiled at my transports. It was the first time I ever saw him smile. "How would you like to visit that country!" he inquired. "Were it possible," said I, "to reach it, I should very much like to do so."' "Rest assured," said he, "if you wish to go you can. For the great task I have before spoken of, is for you to visit that place. I will find means for your departure, and for your return. It is for this purpose that I have been so careful in instructing you in the mysteries of astronomy." The time passed slowly away, and I must have been employed in the manner which I have described for nearly six months. The old man worked as diligently, and the crucible   VOYAGE TO KAILOO.     29 boiled with as much vigor, as when I first entered the cavern. At last, however, the im- portant hour arrived; the old man placed a glass mask over his face, and provided one for my use. This was immediately after we had dined. Thus equipped, we entered the labo- ratory. The fluid in the crucible was still boiling. The old man then went to his private work-shop, returning holding upon an iron hook a large globular mass of fire, resembling mol- ten iron, but which hung from the hook with- out farther support than afforded by it. "I have succeeded," cried the old man, his Whole frame trembling with excitement, his eyes flashing with triumph. "It's malleable flame that will never expire, or become less hot." Laying the mass of malleable flame beside the crucible, he took fromn my hand the copper rod, and stirred the boiling mixture with great violence. The liquid gradually descended in the crucible. Hot vapors arose, filling the room with a thin, blue mist, which condens ed by our breath, rolled in large drops over our glass masks. The old man labored with    80      AJUrvEB JOI. unceasing vigilance as the contents of the crucible gradually grew less. Suddenly he ceased the operation of stir'ng, and taking from a small pouch that hung at his side a vial, which he threw into the crucible, at the same time crying: "On your face!- on your face! for your life!" I instantly obeyed him, and threw myself flat upon the floor. A loud explosion ensued, scattering the fragments of the crucible, and the brands of the fire, over our prostrate forms. After the explosion, arising, the old man rushed eagerly to the spot where the crucible had been, and a cry of delight escaped him as he saw a small heap of red powder lying near the spot. He quickly gathered it up, and placing it in a bottle he had provided for the purpose, then grasping the iron hook that sup- ported the malleable flame, he seized me by the arm, and dragging me after him, hastily stumped out of the room. Entering the room in which I read, he moved from off the table the globe, and the various other instruments that encumbered it, and then placed the hollow   VOYAGE TO  AOO.  '    31 cylinder, of which I have before spoken, upon it. The cylinder was composed of an exceed- ingly light substance, yet as hard as iron itself, which the old man proved by striking it with a sharp axe, the axe making no impression upon it. -"This," said he, patting it affectionately-- ( this is the vehicle that is to convey you to the beautiful planet. You perceive that the inside is of sufficient capacity to contain you without inconvenience." So saying, the old man raised the cylinder upon his shoulder, and telling me to bring the globe and telescope, ascended to the top of the rock. Placing it upon the ground, we re- turned and brought forth a huge chest, so heavy that one end was a sufficient load for me. Having all his utensils at hand, he affixed the cylinder in a frame, attached to which were several very strong steel springs. These springs he drew down to their utmost; tension, and placed them at the sharpened end, the other extremity of the cylinder point- ing upwards, and fastened them  all upon another smaller one, that served in the capa-   32      GULLIVER JOI. city of a trigger. Then taking the red powder that had been formed by the explosion of the crucible, he placed it in a. strong, square, steel box, from which, at the end, there issued a small, but very strong tube, and fastened the box securely in the pointed end of the cylinder. He thus explained the principles and the man- ner of working the machine: "The red powder which I have just enclosed in the steel box, and placed within the cylin- der, is a pyrotechnic compound of great power. As long as a steady heat can be obtained enough to keep it in fusion, so long a steady blast of exceedingly powerful flame will issue from the tube of the steel box, which tube you perceive extends through the aperture at the pointed extremity of the cylinder. For the purpose of keeping up this heat, I have, after great labor, and much research, invented the malleable flame, which I shall place securely under the steel box that contains the powder. This small stop-cock is for the purpose of diminishing the blast whenever you wish. The vane which so much resembles a weather- cock, is for the purpose of guiding the   VOYAGE TO KATLOO.     33 machine. I have discovered that there is a large quantity of iron in the planet which I wish you to visit, and have, therefore, made this vane. The arrow-like head is formed of loadstone; and when you point it in the line of the planet, the machine will incline that way. I have placed a double telescope upon the large extremity, so that you will be ena- bled to see the planet distinctly, and guide the machine accordingly. I now wish you to enter the cylinder." So saying, he assisted me into the cylinder. It wras of sufficient bulk to allow me to lay comfortable. It was lined with soft, warm fur. The telescope, vane, and stop-key, were so arranged that they were convenient to reach. After having everything prepared, the old man placed the globular manss of flame in the pointed  end of the cylinder.  Instantly a stream of fire issued from it, striking the rock with great violence. He then approached me, and placing his hands upon my head, silently blessed me. Then handing me a small pocket telescope, and a roll of manuscript, said: "Farwell I God bless you, and prosper 3   34      GULLIVER JOI. you. Your instruction will be found in the manuscript." I saw that he was about setting the machine free, so, applying myself to the telescope, I distinctly saw the planet, and pointing the vane directly towards it, ( Ready!"I shouted. The old man then pulled the small trigger that confined the steel springs, and propelled by their force, and that of the flame, I shot up into the air, the long broad flame of fire streamn- ing behind me like the blaze of a comet. I looked behind me as I swiftly rose, and could see the old man as he peered through his telescope at my rapid flight. As I rose higher, I could see the, western border of the ocean; and even thought that I could distin- guish the populous cities of the Great Re- public; but they all quickly faded from my sight, leaving nothing but a chaotic mass. I now turned my attention to the guidance of the cylinder. Looking through the tele- scope, I discovered that it was not bearing directly towards the planet. I therefore point- ed the head of the vane in a direct line with   VOYAGE TO XI LOO.     35 it. The machine veered around, and took the proper course. As I advanced, the planet, instead of shin- ing with such vivid brilliancy as it had before, gradually grew dim; and I soon became sen- sible that I was no longer withheld by the power of the earth's attraction, but that I had become liable to fall with great force upon the surface of the planet. I therefore turned the opposite end of the vane towards it, which was endowed with a repelling power. My cylinder turned- from it, and was soon in a fair way to return to earth again; but with the stop-cock provided for that purpose, I shut off the supply of flame that propelled me, in such a manner that I was enabled to descend towards the planet with ease. As I approached the planet, I could readily perceive that it much resem- bled our earth. Landing in safety upon a high mountain, I hastily disengaged myself from the machine, not thinking to turn off the flame. No sooner had the cylinder become lightened of my weight, than, impelled by the power of the flame, it arose again, soaring high in the   36       GUXIV1E JO}. heavens, and was -soon lost to my view; thus cutting off all hope of returning to earth by its assistance. *    * HAPTER m. STIFF from. my long and irksome position in the cylinder,* it was for some time before I fully recovered the use of my limbs. But after a great deal of exertion, I succeeded in descending the rugged sides of the mountain. The place seemed entirely uninhabited; butt while rambling in search of a better path, it was my good fortune to discover a broad road, and judging that it would lead meo to an in- habited portion of the planet, I followed it. The road was broad, and paved with a pure white,. semi-transparent stone. I followed this road for some distance, and, at length, saw smoke arising. I hurried my footsteps, in the hopes that I would find some of the inhabitants. I was right in my con-   38       GULLlVFA JOI. jecture. It was a house. It appeared to be built of iron or steel, highly polished; for it shone in the sun with great brightness. Be- fore the door was an individual, whom, from her clothing, I correctly judged to be a woman. She was clothed in purple raiments that fell around her in graceful folds, seemingly to have no fastenings such as hook-and-eyes or pins; and I knew she never wore those most abomin- able instruments of torture known among us, citizens of the world, as corsets; for her form, as it was developed by the fold of her raiment, was almost perfect-one, at the sight of whom, our earthly painters would have gone into ecsta- cies. But the face was a drawhack, although it would have been pretty, had she but have left it alone; but art, that defiler- of the human face divine, had done its worst. The poor girl had thrust through her nostrils a long white cord, that hung down on either side, and was ornamented with such a great quantity of jewels, that it had completely drawn her nose over her mouth. Feeling very thirsty, I ad- vanced closer to her, and -addressing her in English, asked for water. She gazed at me,   VOYAGE TO RATT00.    - 39 with astonishment depicted upon her coun- tenance; then answered me with such rapidity of utterance, that it sounded like the quick ringing of a tea bell. But finding that I could not understand her, she, with the true hospi- tality and frankness that I afterwards dis- covered characterized this people, put her arm through mine, and conducted me into the house. The first thing that attracted my at- tention, was their method of warming the house; for although it seemed summer-like to me, still the good people kept a good fire. In the centre of the room was the chimney, which rose from the floor and through the roof, help- ing to support the rafters. At the bottom of the chimney was a grate that extended quite around it, thus giving the advantage of throw- ing heat out upon all sides; which, I think, is a great deal better than our fire-places, where the most part of the heat is expended upon the back of the chimney. Sitting near the fire was an- old man, who raised his head for a moment when I entered, and then resumed his original position of lay- ing his head upon his knees, and swaying his   40      GULLIVER JOI. body backward and forward. I had scarcely time to make these discoveries, when the sun, which, when I left the mountain, was shining with the heat of noonday, suddenly went down, leaving us in darkness. The young woman that I had first seen, went to a cup- board, and taking from it several small bugs, placed them upon the table. Instantly they opened their eyes, and a stream of light issued from them of sufficient brightness to illuminate the room. She then placed some bread and a bottle of light wine upon the table, and being almost famished from my long fast, I hastened to satisfy my appetite, and was surprised to dis- cover, when I had finished, that they had all fallen asleep; for I could not have been more than five minutes in eating. Feeling much fatigued, I stretched myself upon the floor, and was soon fast asleep. I had not slept long when I was awakened by the movements of the family, and rising from my recumbent position, I discovered the sun had. arisen, and the famnily were preparing for breakfast. The young lady I had first seen, presented me to   VOYAOE TO KAI)O.      41 a gentleman whom I afterwards discovered to be her husband. After breakfast, he made manifest that he wished me to follow him. Placing his arm within mine, he walked with such rapidity that I was forced to run to keep up -with him. In a very few minutes we arrived at a small village, or cluster of houses, which proved to be the suburbs of a city; for we had not proceeded much farther before I could distinctly see the walls and high towers of a great city.. As we neared the city, vehicles. drawn by horses of the most beautiful form, passed by us with inconceivable rapidity. My conductor, perceiving that I was much fatigued by my exertions, called out to one of the drivers: "Kal-marell-nek r" Or, at least, that is the only way I can spell the sound. The driver sputtered forth a reply, and stopped his animals.  ly, companion shoved me into the carriage, and then gave the driver some direction in the (to me) un- known tongue, whereupon that worthy chir- ruped to his horses, and away we went with the swiftnes of the fastest locomotive. He   42       OULLIVR JOI. stopped an instant at the gates of the city, where my companion paid a coin to the gate- keeper; then driving into the main avenue of the city, where there were many other vehicles, darting with such velocity that should a collision occur, the carriages would be dash- ed in pieces. Suddenly the driver pulled up llis beasts in front of a large mansion, which was built of semi-transparent stones, of differ- ent colors. The roof was supported in front by twelve massive pillars, made of stone as clear as the purest crystal. Springing out of the carriage, we quickly ascended a broad, brazen staircase, and was shown, without cere- mony, into a large apartment, which was thick- ly crowded with people, apparently of every grade of society, whose only business seemed to be that of violently shaking hands with a portly, pompous individual, who was standing in the centre of the room, and underwent the operation with the utmost nonchalance. He was, as I was afterwards informed, an officer of high rank in the country, as well as being chief magistrate of the city in which I then was. My conductor hurried me up to this   VOYAGE TO KAILOO.     43 important personage, first shaking him by the hand, and then presenting me; whereupon I went through the same interesting perform- ance. The' chief officer looked at me with surprise, and then addressed me; but I shook my head, saying, "No! no! no!" very vio- lently, giving him to understand that his lan- guage was unintelligible to me. My conductor now held a long (for him) conversation with the official, which resulted in my being placed in the charge of another gentleman, who seemed highly delighted with the honor con- ferred upon him; and after repeated bows to the officer, took my arm under his, and has- tened from the apartment. His carriage was waiting his arrival at the door, in which we seated ourselves, and were driven rapidly in the direction of my new guide's house. Ar- riving there, to my great amazement he re- quested me to accompany him to dinner, when I had breakfasted certainly not more than half an hour previous; but wishing not to offend him, I accompanied him to the dinner- table, and sat down, and had just commenced my dinner when my entertainer ceased eating   "      GULLIVER JOI. having gulped down his food with such velo- city that I ceased eating, and looked at him in fear that he would choke himself in his eager haste. In fact, I was completely bewildered with the hurry and confusion that character- ized the actions of this most singular people. Immediately after dinner, the gentleman, with very impressive gestures, made known to me that he was to have the honor of being my instructor; and then conducted me into a large apartment, fitted up with shelves, upon which were placed a great number of pon- drous volumes. Seating ourselves by the side of a table, he opened one of the books, and placed it upon the table before me. It was a pictorial history of the country, as I after- wards discovered when I had attained a know- ledge of the language, bearing, for its title, "KAmoo--I ts Past History and Future Des- tiny*"It was filled with miniature fac-similes of various objects, which served the purpose of engravings; thus, for a table, there was a ismall table that fitted a cavity made for that purpose in 'the book. A single character be- neath the cavity told what it was. These minia- i    VOYAGEB TO KAILOO.      45 ture objects were made of a substance much resembling " papier mache," so much used in these times in the formation of those pretty and useful articles that grace almost every parlor in our own country. As there were a great many illustrations of this kind, the book was necessarily very large. My instructor then  took a small pen or pencil from his pocket, and procuring a piece of parchment, drew a list of characters upon it, pronouncing the name very forcibly as he made each letter, I, by his instruction, repeat- ing them after him. This he did until I was able to repeat each one as he pointed it out to me, which I learned to do in a .very short time-at least I thought so, although my in- structor manifested many signs of impatience at my slow progress. Scarcely had I finished learning the characters, than supper was an- nounced. I wondered at this; for, upon look- ing at my watch, I discovered that but one hour had elapsed since I left the cottage I first visited, and that my lesson had occupied but half an hour. I will not describe the tedious forms through which I -passed before I was                     ,    *   "      GTULLiVJa JOI. able to speak or read; but by the aid of my invaluable "pictorial," I at last acquired the art, and could speak and read their language without difficulty. It was composed of single ,syllables, which, instead of conveying one idea, each syllable expressed several. Thus, if I were to ask a person, "' How does the sun shine on you to-day?" which was the familiar greeting of one friend to another, I would say, "Karh i" sounding somewhat as this is written, "i Kar-r-h." It is a difficult matter for me to write the sound of their language, as our lan- guage will not admit of it. Their alphabet consists of seventeen letters proper, although there are so many different methods of writing these characters, that the alphabet, in point of fact, consists of nearly a hundred different signs. To learn to read and write the lan- guage properly, requires a great amount of study; and my instructor informed me, that there were very few indeed, that were capable of writing or pronouncing their own language correctly. I will now account, as far as I am able, for the shortness of their days and nights, which   VOYAGE TO KAILOO.      47 was, at first, the occasion of much inconve- nience to me; but by the aid of my watch I was enabled to divide my time in such a man- ner that I did not experience 'any evil effects from the irregularity (to me) of their time. The planet revolves around the sun twenty- four times faster than does our earth. This may be accounted for by its being twenty-four times the circumference of the earth nearer the sun. I will shortly give a table of their division of time, as prepared by Honnolumeek, my instructor-a pretty long name for such fast-talking individuals, but it was a general practice among the Kailooites. Although terse in their conversation, still they gave their chil- dren the longest and highest sounding cogno- mens they could invent. i   CHAPTER IV. "ALTHOUGH it is hard for me to believe," said Honnolumeek to me, after the' conclusion of a tedious lesson, " that you are an inhabi- tant of the beautiful planet that supplies the place of the sun at night," pointing towards our earth, which was shining with soft bright- ness, for it was night, and my instructor had remained up longer than usual, " and that you are surprised at the shortness of our days and nights; still I am constrained to believe you, for I have known you to go for the space of six successive days and nights without sleep- ing, and then retire and sleep as many more. This you would be unable to do unless you are accustomed to it. At your wish, I have pre- pared a table by which you may see how we   VOYA:GE TO KAILOO.      49 divide our time; and by the aid of the coarse instrument for measuring time you carry with you, may be enabled to reduced it to the stand- ard adopted by the world in which you for- merly resided." EHe then extended towards me a small piece of parchment, and it being exceedingly late for him to be awake, I insisted upon his retir- ing, and leave me to discuss the table by my- self. The table was arranged much in the same manner as our table of time is arranged. I will here say that when the Kailooites wish to express but one idea in the word, they in- variably use two syllables. I have thus trans- lated the table: KAILOOITE TABLE.    REDUCED TO ENGLISH TIME. 4 Congrets make 1 tarler. 1 Congret equals I minute. 5 Tarlers 1 lunet. 1 Tarler -L 1 minute. 3 Lunets " 1 solet. 1 Lunet ;  5 minutes. 4     Solettin. 1 Solet     hour. 365 Peletins 1 killgame. 1 Peletin or day 1 hour. I Killgame or year, 11 days, 1 hour. Besides the above, they have also a more minute division of time, which I will not de- scribe. I will say, however, that a' man's life-   60      GULLIVER JOI. time in this planet is about seventy killgames -two years and forty days, computing as we do. Their killgame consists of but one season, and that appeared to me to be summer; but the, inhabitants seemed to suffer much with cold. They call the day frelo, signifying light; and the night derko, signifying darkness. Hence- forth, however, when speaking of day or night, I shall consider it in the same manner that we do, namely, twelve hours for the day, and twelve hours for the night, as, by the assist ance of my watch, I was able so to divide my time. One day, Honnolumeek said that he wished me to accompany him to the great city, where the king resided; and, that to allow me sufficient time, he had given me forty-two days (hours) to prepare for the journey. I was heartily glad to hear this; for although I had been in the country ninety days, I had scarcely been outside my instructor's house during that time. It did not take me long to get ready; and I impatiently waited my instructor's re- turn. In the meantime, I busily engaged my- self in reading attentively the great pictorial history. At precisely sunrise on the day he   VOYAGE TO AU00OO.     51 had appointed, Honnolumeek  entered my apartment, fully equipped for the journey. In his hand he carried a small bundle, which contained all the clothes that he took with him. As for myself, I had stuffed a large chest with clothes, and other articles I thought I needed. Honnolumeek, with a smile, ordered the servant to take my trunk down, and hav- ing securely placed it in the coach, we sprang in; the coachman whipped his animals, and away we rattled in fine style. At my request, Honnolumeek -ordered the coachman to drive slow, that I might be able to see the city through which we were driving. The streets were broad, and paved with square plates of iron, which were neatly fitted into each other, thus securing a perfectly smooth road. The houses, or the greater portion of them, were built or the same metal, save that it was bur- nished until it shone in the sun with exceed- ing brightness. The very handsome houses, however, were built of wood, resembling, in color, oak. The wood was not painted but polished, until it looked as neat as a piece of household furniture. I noticed that fountains,   62      GULLVER JOI            1 the waters of which had the color of wine, were playing at the corner of each principal street. The driver, becoming impatient at the ex- treme slowness of the pace, and as the horses were evidently fatigued, whipped them up; and I could distinguish nothing farther, as everything swam past me with such velocity that I was completely stunned, although I noticed that Honnolumeek nodded to his acquaintances as they passed, as though we were going at a very moderate pace. In a few moments we drew up before a magnificent building, composed entirely of iron, with im- mense iron columns in front, and a very high cupola surmounting its roof-the whole mass so dazzling in its extreme brightness, that it made my eyes ache to look upon it. Telling the driver to bring my trunk after us, Hon- nolumeek seized me by the arm, and dragged me throughwan immense crowd of people that were struggling and pushing their way to- wards a small, round opening in the wall, where, after great trouble, we arrived; and having pushed some money through the aper-    VOYAGE TO KALOnd.     53  ture, he received therefor several small toys, but which, he informed me, were tickets for seats in the tirsh.'  We hastened towards a large arched door- way, through which we went into what ap- peared to be an under-ground tunnel. Arriv- ing at the far extremity of this tunnel, we entered a small door, and found ourselves in a cylindrical-shaped room, filled with seats, and the seats full of ladies and gentlemen. The room was lighted; by thick glass windows. As the seats were alltaken, we proceeded to the farther extremity of this room, and entered another. This was also full of ladies and gen- tlemen, all talking and laughing at a great rate. Thus we proceeded, until we had ar- rived at one in which we found seats. While waiting for the starting of the trsh, my com- panion gave mlle an explanation of its mode of operation. "The tir s" said he, " is a comparatively  late invention, having been in operation but a short time; still it works well, and the com- pany that own it have been quite successful. I will strive to give you an idea of the man-   54      , GUL iVMC JOI. ner by which it is propelled. The tirsh, in which we are now seated, a, well as the others through which we passed, is fittd air-tight in a thick tube or tunnel, the sideblubricated with a liquid that completely destroys the friction. At the farther extremity of this tube, which is about five hundred miles distant, is a powerful machine used for the-' purpose of exhausting the air in the tubes, and, as a matter of course, the pressure of the atmosphere behind drives us forward with very great! rapidity. The man- ner in which we are supplied with fresh air for breathing is very simple. Those small tubes you see on the ceiling, are pierced with a great number of small holes, and extend out of the last tirsh behind us; and the pressure of the atmosphere is so great, that a full supply of air is forced in, thus creating a refreshing and cooling current obfita all the time. It is now a little close, but as soon as we start the air will commence circulating, and we will be comfortably cool."  X "lHow is it," I inquired, " that the windows are so fitted that they give light p" "O 1 that is very simply done," said he ; " the   VOYAGE TO KA TA).     55 tunnel is composed entirely of tuebal-a mine- ral which is perfectly transparent. It is found in great abundance in the northern part of the country. The .tirsh itself is made of subal-a substance very rare and costly." I examined the material of which it was formed, and thought it much resembled oak wood, highly polished. But before I had time to ask more questions, a deep, thundering roar reverberated through the tirsh. "The -signal for starting," said Honnolu- meek. At that moment we commenced moving- and then--how can I describe the exceeding swiftness? I looked through the window. It appeared to my inexperienced eye as though the ground was whirling with lightning speed past me./ Trees, houses, and every visible object were mixed up in chaotic confusion; and I could distinguish nothing but a dis- turbed mass of matter rushing rapidly by. I closed my eyes, for the scene made me giddy; but becoming accustomed to the motion, I could look around the interior of the tirsh without experiencing inconvenience. My fel-   *GULLI ViEX JOI. low passengers were fooking through the win- dows discussing the various objects which we passed with as much ease as though we were going at a very moderate speed. We had rode but half an hour by my watch, when we were so suddenly stopped that I was jerked off my seat. Honnolumeek inmmedi- ately caught my arm, and dragged me after him through the crowd of passengers, who, not minding or caring against what or whom they pushed, were struggling towards the door. After a great deal of trouble, we arrived at the door, and passing through an entrance made in the tunnel, entered a large building. The apartment in which we now were was crowded with apparently half-starved travel- lers. At one side of the room was placed a long table covered with smoking dishes, and every man, woman, and child, held in their fingers a great mass of food, gulping it down as though they expected it was the last they would ever eat. Honnolumeek seized a huge, smoking, meat pie, and dividing it into two pieces, gave me one of them, then voraciously commenced devouring his own portion. It   VOYAGE TO rKATT O.     57 was so hot that it burned my mouth every time I tasted it, and I thought to let it cool, when the thundering signal for s1arting echoed through the apartment, and Honnolumeek, having not quite finished his pie, doffed his hat, and thrust it in, covering it all with his huge pocket-handkerchief; then seizing me by the hand, dragged me into the car again, and' before we had seated, off we went, with, if possible, increased rapidity, as Honnolumeek informed me that we were an eighteenth part of a congret behind the time. Punctual people these Kailooites are, for the time amounts to about the fourth part of a second. But they must be at a certain point of the tunnel, to allow the trsh coming from the opposite direction to pass them. There were a great many new passengers that came on at the last stopping place, among them  several very pretty young ladies. But one of them did a very bad action, in my opinion-one which I hope no young ladies of my- own country will do. They all had obtained seats but one, and with the politeness for which our nation is distinguished, I was about rising and giving   58      GULLIVE JOI. her my seat, when, to my surprise, she ap- proached a gentleman a little above the mid- dle; age, who was evidently unwell, or exceed- ingly fatigued, and requested him to rise that she might sit in his place. The old gentle- man, with true gallantry arose, and gave his seat to her. I thought much less of the young lady than I did before; and perceiving that the gentleman was really ill, I rose from my seat, and, in spite of all that Honnolumeek said to the contrary, insisted upon his taking it, which, after many entreaties, he did. Standing by his side, we entered into a brisk conversation, and I discovered that he was a very intelligent man. He did not look" at Honnolumeek, but turned his head from him. Perceiving that I was a stranger he inquired from what part of the country I came. I then gave him a brief account of how I happened to visit the country, when he took my hand in his, and made me promise to call upon him when I should arrive at the great city, at the same time placing in my hand two small cards. By this time we had arrived at our journey's end, and, guided by Honnolumeek, I hastened   VOYAGE TO KArLOO.     59 from the tirsh. Our baggage was brought to us by a porter, and placed in a wagon. We mounted into a carriage, were conveyed to a large mansion, which Honnolumeek said was a house for the accommodation of travellers. By this time it was nearly dark; and being somewhat hungry--for I had eaten nothing with the exception of what I had eaten at the stopping-place-I was right glad when Honno- lumeek proposed our going to the supper-room, which was a large apartment, brightly illu- minated with a great number of the flame- bugs, which were scattered in great nunbers throughout the apartment. There was a long, narrow table placed in the centre of the room, extending its entire length. Having found seats, without farther ceremony we fell to eat- ing. After supper, being excessively fatigued with my ride, I immediately retired, and was soon fast asleep, dreaming that I was pounding the lap-stone in my father's little'shop.   CHAPTER V. I MUST have slept very long, for when I arose and met Honnolumeek in the hall, he seemed angry with me for my tardiness, and said some very harsh things to me, which I answered as harshy, and he left me in anger. When I next saw him, which was at the dinner-table, he appeared better natured, and I showed him the card which the gentleman that I had met in the tirsh gave me. "How!" cried he, "did you receive this from the old gentlemen you met in the tirs1 r" "Yes, and he requested me to call upon him," I answered. "Oh! had I known this before," said he. 'It is the man I wished most' to sec Colo-   rondo, the highest officer under the king. I ought to have paid my respects to him." Thus he went on, lamenting that he had not known him before, and striving to think of all the evil things he said to the old gentleman, while in the tir8h. "He asked you to call?" he inquired. I answered- in the affirmative. "We will go immediately," said he, spring- ing from his seat, and taking my arm within his, conducted me to the door, when perceiving a coach, he called it, and seating ourselves in it, we were soon on our way towards the gentleman's house, to which Honnolumeek had directed the driver to convey us. We soon arrived at the house. Alighting from  our carriage, we hastened up the broad staircase of the noble mansion. As we reached the top step, the door was opened by a servant who was so ludicrous in features and form, that, as he stood bowing and scraping his foot behind him, I could scarcely keep from laughing. It is scarcely possible that I shall be able to give such a description of him, that will make him appear as 'ridiculous as he did to me. He was  62      GTUALIVE JOI. exceedingly short. His lower extremities were shaped like a goat's, and had no covering except the long, reddish-colored hair, with which nature had bountifully supplied them. Alis body was clothed in a beautiful crimson velvet jacket, and completely covered with precious stones. His head was shaped some- what like a monkey's, but the countenance was of a deep green color*, his lips were long and extremely thin; his nose aquiline and far protruding, standing several inches from his face; his eyes deep set, and so small that were it not for the bright twinkle they occasionally shot forth, they could not be seen. The hair on his head stood up from his forehead to the height of nearly a foot, and to crown all, his speech was so broken that even Honnolumeek could scarcely understand him. He extended his hand, which was very small and well- formed, for the card which Honnolumeek slipped into it, then, with a jerk of his head, he hastened to deliver the card to his master. Presently he returned with as sorrowful an ex- pression of countenance as he could well put on, saying in londrawn, measured syllables,      VOYAGE TO KATTOO.     63 I My master is sick a-bed." Honnolumeek looked at me with a sly twinkle of his eye, and slipping a coin in the servant's hand, said: "Perhaps your master is well enough to see the foreign gentleman that he met in the tirsh not long since." "What!" cried the servant, "is this the strange gentleman that came from the moon I If he is, master has given me orders to admit him." So in we went, the servant conducting us, turning at almost every step, and looking upon me with curiois eyes, as though he saw some- thing strange in my appearance. At length we arrived at a wide door that opened into a very large apartment. Our singular conductor bade us be seated, while he told his master of our arrival. The room was furnished sumpl tuously, and I was surprised to discover among the beautifulfurniture of the Kailoo fashion, several pieces that resembled that used on earth. Among them, I noticed an old mahog- any sideboard, one like which I had not seen before in Kailoo. At the far end of the room,   4,      GOULLrVER JOL between the two large windows, was placed a musical instrument, as was evident from the silver key-board before it. While examining the curious and beautiful articles that were arranged tastefully around the room, a side door opened, and a young lady entered. She was the fairest creature I ever before beheld. Adopting the Kailooite costume, she did not follow the disfiguring habit of wearing the nose cord, but left her countenance in its original beauty. Her eye was dark, and as it fell'upon me with a friendly glance, I felt that I could have loved her, were she not a Kailooite. She seemed not to notice Honnolumeek, but passed him, I thought, with a scornful smile, and addressed herself to me: "My father has sent me to bear you company until he comes, which will be pres- ently. What shall I do to entertain -you in the imeantime?" She spoke so kind and gentle, that I could almost have fallen at her feet and worshipped her. I entered into conversation with her. She did not appear to think the less of me   VOYAGE TO  BAeLO.     65 because I had not a formal introduction to her. This was new to me, for had a lady of our country met a stranger in the same  situation, she would have delivered the mes- sage with all the coldness deemed so essential to fashionable life. But here was a lady of the highest rank in Kailoo, addressing me, a total stranger, with such kind words, that it made my heart swell up and beat with tenfold vigor whenever she spoke. I felt the difference, and was rejoiced to discover that it was fashion- able here to treat all with kindness, until it was discovered that the person was undeserving of such treatment. Why she did not speak to Honnolumeek I afterwards discovered. 'Mean- while, as her father did not arrive, and being passionately fond of music, I besought her to perform upon the musical instrument I before spoke of. Without hesitating, she went to the instrument, and lightly pressed her delicate fingers upon the small silver keys. To give an idea of the sound, it will perhaps be better for me to describe the instrument, which she ' kindly opened for my inspection. The main body was a squarea chest made of 5   "      GULLIVER JOI. wood, beautifully polished. From the top of this chest there extended a long square box, or tube, which passed through the roof of the house, serving for the purpose of creating a strong draught of air, which, passing over a great number of wires of different sizes, produced the sound. The wires were placed somewhat in the same manner as in the piano- forte, save that instead of lying side by side, they were placed above each other, the largest cord at the bottom. Upon each wire there rested a down-covered muffler, that prevented its vibration, thus hindering any sound except when removed, which was effected by touching 'the key. A pedal, acting upon a damper placed at the bottom of the instrument, served to govern the strength or softness of the sound required, by shutting off or increasing the draught of air, which, playing over the wires like over the strings of the XEolian harp, produced much the same sound, but with greatly-increased power. A set of tiny mufflers were so arranged that they lightly touched the exact centre of each wire, and so contrived * that by pressing a smaller pedal, they ascend.   VOYAGE TO KATLOO.     67 or descend, producing harmonical sounds or otherwise, at the option of the performer. While engaged in examining the instrument, her father entered the room. With a slight bow to Honnolumeek, he passed him, and grasping my hand within his, "My dear sir," said he, "I am extremely happy to see you. Why did you not come before?" Turning to his daughter, he con- tinned : "Fameta, I wish you to amuse our guest for a short time, while I transact a little business with the gentleman in the other room." I was somewhat surprised, but nevertheless gratified, to hear this, for I was just beginning to be entertaining to the young lady, who asked me if I was fond of painting. ,I of course assented, but, to tell the truth, I never saw but one, and that was the portrait of my mother, that hung in the little parlor at honle. She conducted me into a long hall, the walls of which were covered with specimens of the artistical skill of the Kailooites. They were not painted in oil colors, as our paintings generally are, but were composed of minute   68      GULLIVER JOI. particles of different-colored clay, inlaid some- what like mosaic work, but so very small were the pieces, and so exquisitely arranged, that the colors blended so harmoniously that they were almost perfect copies of nature. They were mostly landscapes. One of them, a rural scene, I thought bore some resemblance to an oil painting, and upon closer examination found it to be one, and that a scene that must have been painted in my own dear world. "Where," cried I, "did that come from?" She said it was an old picture that had long been in the family, and had been painted in her native country. She said no more, and to all my questions on the subject, would give no farther reply, as her father had forbade her doing so. We now heard her father calling us, and instantly re-entered the parlor, where we found the old gentleman rubbing his hands together in great apparent satisfaction. "I got rid of him easy!" said he to me. "What " cried I, all amazement, "have you sent him away without informing me? Why, he was appointed to be my guide through the country."   VOYAGE TO WATLOO.     69 "Gammon!" said he, in English. I was all astonishment., "But, my dear fellow," he continued, using the same language, "this is all mystery to you; after dinner I will explain it, and I think that perhaps you will make a better bargain by remaining under my guidance, than that of such a rascal as Honno- lumeek. I tell you he is a rascal; but come, let's go to dinner. I will give you a regular old-fashioned earthly dinner, exactly one hour long, for I cannot live up to the times in this fast country i I dine three times in twelve days, according to their time. What a funny old codger I am. Ha! h haha! So come; you don't bear me any ill will, do you?" I was too much surprised to answer, and therefore giving Fameta my arm, we followed the old gentleman down stairs into the dining- room, where I was introduced to his wife, Mrs. Brown, " although," said he, with a sly twinkle of his eye, " you must call her Madame Colo- rondo when in presence of these quick-mindbd Kailooites. When alone, however, never call her by any name save Mrs. Brown, which   'U      GGULLIVER JOI. plain though it be, makes me think of good, old times." I had enjoyed but few social meals at home, and those few were so impressed in my memory that a tear of mingled joy and regret, in spite of my endeavors to the contrary, started to my eye. My good host perceived it, and a tear of sympathy glistened in his eye, as he, rising from his seat, grasped my hand; then falling back, gazed at me with fast-filling eyes. "Hang it!" said he, " it does my old eyes good to see you."        Our dinner was excellent, and for the first time since my arrival in the country, I really enjoyed myself. After dinner, Mr. Brown filled all our glasses, and then his own, with some real old Oporto, as he assured me. "I never encourage drinking among young men, Mr. Joi," said he, " but this wine has such a good old earthy taste, that I cannot forbid myself the pleasure of seeing you drink it. It will make you think of our mutual home-the earth-much better than this new- fangled affair, where they are so much in favor   VOYAGE TO  AT0O.  a  71 of " progress" that they will scarcely allow a man sufficient time to eat or sleep. However ill the would-be philosophers, who reside on the earth, speak of it, let them by chance leave it and visit Kailoo, as we have, my boy, and I think they will change their minds. Therefore, join me in drinking to our much-loved earth." We drained our glasses, and after escorting the ladies to the parlor, my worthy friend taking my arm within his, conducted me to his office, where to my great joy I found books, both English and French, enough to form quite a large library. The names of their authors, and the places where they were published, were printed upon them, and as I read and re-read the familiar names of authors that I had seen before, I felt as though I was on earth again, and had walked into the office of a friend at home. "You must," said he, " be impatient to learn how I came to visit this outlandish place, and I wish to know how I have happened to have the pleasure of your company. I will tell ybu^ my adventures, and in return you must relate yours. Turn about is fair play, you know."   CHAPTER   VI. IT would occupy more space than I can afford, should I give the old gentleman's story in his own words; therefore I will attempt an outline, which must be far inferior to his story, for I cannot write it in the same impressive style with which he delivered it. Mr. Brown was a native of Liverpool, England, and was captain of a packet-ship that traded between that port and the East Indies. He had made several successful voyages, and was about making his last trip before retiring from the business, having amassed sufficient wealth to support himself and wife through life, leaving quite a balance for his little daughter. His wife, at her own request, was to go with him, and being a high-born lady,   VOYAGE TO  AILT4OO.    73 Mr. Brown- had provided every article of luxury for the voyage, that it might be as pleasant as possible. After a prosperous voyage they arrived at their point of destina- tion, and having discharged his cargo, took in another which consisted entirely of old wines and valuable silks, and with a fair breeze was soon on his return home, everything seeming to warrant that the conclusion of their voyage would be as happy as the commencement. But one day, after a storm that had lasted for two days without ceasing, and the sailors wearied with their arduous exertions had re- tired to their bunks, the waves were still rising and falling in long heavy swells, the remains. of the late storm, Captain Brown, being anxious, could not sleep, but walked the deck,? keeping watch while his crew slept. Looking towards the horizon, he saw an immense water-spout coming with great rapid- ity towards the vessel. It was of great size, being nearly six times the bulk of the'vessel, the largest he had ever seen.  Perceiving the danger, he sprang to the helm, for the helmsman, overcome with fatigue, had fallen   74       GULLVEB JOI.  asleep at his post; but it was too late; the water-spout was just upon them. Determined to perish in company with his beloved wife and child, he rushed into the cabin, drawing the covering of the hatchway closely over him. "We are lost!" cried he, as he clasped his wife and child to his bosom. He could distinctly hear the rushing, gurgling sound, as the mighty body of water drew nigh the ship. The water-spout was so large that it did not break upon and swamp the ship as he expected, but sucked it upwards with the force of its current, and he could distinctly feel the whirling of the ship, as it went around and around, following the winding course of the powerful stream.  Suddenly the sickening motion ceased, and the vessel seemed to be falling through the air, then, with a crashing shock, it struck with such force that it threw him from the spot to which he had been clinging, to the other end of the cabin, his wife and child falling upon him. Then all was still. Stunned by the suddenness of his fall, he lay for a&moment motionless, then rising, his wife and child were at his feet, the one fainting   VOYAGE TO RAnHOO.     75 or dead, the other struggling as though in death's last agonies. Upon his wife's brow were several drops of blood, but he was rejoiced when upon placing his hand to his forehead, he discovered that it calne from a deep wound caused by his fall. Obtaining some cologne water that had been placed in a chest near by, he sprinkled it upon the face of his wife. To his joy she revived, and soon arising, turned her attention to his daughter, who was more frightened than hurt. The vessel, after striking, remained perfectly motionless. After some trouble, he succeeded in forcing the cabin door open, and went upon deck. To his great wonderment, no water was to be seen! The vessel had fallen bow fore- most upon a high mountain. The bow, which contained the forecastle, in which the crew had been sleeping when the accident occurred, had been shattered into fragments, while the stern had fallen upon the top of a great mass of long reeds, which were woven together in such a manner that it completely broke the fall, thus saving the inmates of the cabin from otherwise unavoidable destruction. The fallen masts and   76      GULLTVER JOI. rigging encumbered the deck, lying in the utmost confusion. Anxious concerning the fate of iis crew, he hastened towards the forecastle, but so shivered was the forepart of the vessel, that no definite idea could be farmed of its whereabouts, and his worst fears were realized. The crew must have all been precipitated over the ledge of the rock, upon which that part of the vessel had fallen. Making these discoveries, he returned to the cabin, and after packing up their valuables, so that they might be able to obtain them again, they descended the mountain and arrived safe at the city, where he was taken by the gate- keeper to the king, who gave him his protection, and after having him instructed in the language, appointed him his prime minister. The cargo of the ship he disposed of to such great advan- tage that he became the wealthiest man in the kingdom. Having told the king his adven- tures, he for the first time discovered that he was in another world. "But," said he in conclusion, "H have kept you too long, and, if you are inclined, will show you some parts of the city by moonlight,   VOYAGE TO KAIT4O.     T" or if you wish a longer walk, I will take you to the mountain where lie the, remains of my vessel, and also where are the graves of my unfortunate shipmates." We left the house, the old gentleman looking up to the earth, which was shining with mellowed light over our heads. "I love," said he, " to gaze upon the moon, for I think that perhaps some of my friends may be looking upon it at the same time." "It is not the moon," said I; " that is our own dear earth." "Our earth!" cried he, all amazement, and he reverently took off his cap, and gazed upon it; " how know you that it is?" "You forget," I answered, " that you have not heard my story, which far exceeds yours in ;he marvellous. I will relate it as we proceed, but to assure you that it is the earth, look ;hrough this telescope. You perceive that ;here is no man in, it." So saying, I gave him the small telescope ;hat the old man of the rock had given me, and which was of great power. Taking it from me he applied it to his eye, and gazed long at our   78       GULLIVER JOI.         1 beautiful planet. Removing the instrument from his eye, he attempted to place it in my hand, but trembling with emotion, he let it fall, and it was dashed to fragments upon the iron pavement. Intensely grieved, it was for some time before I could comfort him for the loss, but after telling him that we should feel no sorrow at its loss, as it only inflamed us with a desire to return to earth, which he knew was impracticable, he seemed to be comfored, and we pursued our walk, at the same time relating to him my adventures, which appeared greatly to interest him. The streets of the city were deserted. No night-watch was to be seen, for thieving and riots were crimes unknown in Kailoo. We roamed through the city until we arrived at the eastern gate. The gate was closed. Awakening the sleeping official, who, upon perceiving my companion, appeared much confused, "No matter, my friend," said the old gentleman; "I will not report you, only be more careful in future." The fellow mumbled some reply which my friend cut short, and we proceeded on our way s           ,         i   VOYAGE 'TO RAILOO.     79 towards the mountain. After a tedious walk up its steep sides, we arrived at the spot where the vessel had fallen. There, indeed, was the remains of the once noble ship; the timbers, fast decaying, had fallen asunder, and almost buried beneath the thick layer of green moss that covered them. After examining them, my friend-whom I shall henceforth call by his Kailooite name, Colorondo-took me by the hand and silently conducted me into a small enclosure, where were several groves, covered with long grass and blooming flowers. The headstones were made of iron. The inscrip- tions were deeply graven, both in English and Kailooite, by a Kailooite artist, under the immediate inspection of Colorondo. With doffed caps we silently stood over the sacred spot, and my friend's lips moved in silent prayer, as a tear for the memory of his beloved companions stole over his manly cheek. Walk- ing cautiously, as though fearful of disturbing the sleepers, we left the spot and hastened on our way towards the city. As we descended the steep acclivity the sun rose, and we had a fine view of the surrounding country. We   80      GULLIVER JOI. arrived at the gates just as the keeper was unclosing them, and hurried on our way towards Colorondo's dwelling. The streets were now thronged with citizens, who were hastening to and fro, pursuing their daily avocations. Arriving at the house, the family had not yet retired, I heard music, and entering the parlor, found Miss Fameta performing upon the  Eolian instrument. Her father being weary with his long walk, said he would leave his daughter to amuse me, and hinting that it wanted four or five hours of bed-time, but that he had state business to perform the day after to-morrow, Kailoo time, he must to bed, and calling Mrs. Brown, who was feeding a real canary bird, the offspring of some that had been on the vessel, she obeyed her lord, as a good wife should, and I was left alone with the young lady. When at home, I had been considered by the few girls that I was acquainted with, as a very bashful fellow, and had frequently been called " green;" but at this trying moment, my courage did not desert me, and I made my first speech with the utmost boldness.   VOYAGE TO KATLOO.     81 "Miss Brown," said I, " or Miss Colorondo, if you prefer the latter-" She interrupted me. "What is your first name, Mr. Joi?" For the first time in my life I was ashamed of my first name. Gulliver. How verdant it sounded; but summing up my courage, I boldly said: "Gulliver!" "Now, then," said she. X"Gulliver"--how pretty the name sounded when pronounced by her sweet voice--"Gulliver, I wish you to call me by my English name, Martha, when alone, or in the company of my parents; but when any of our neighbors are within hearing, it perhaps would  be better to call me Miss Fameta Colorondo." How  delighted I was at her frankness. I could almost have called her dear Martha; but fortunately I did not. "Are you fond of flowers?" said she, as she placed her pretty hand upon mine. Of course [ was; who would not be when asked by such mnangel. I followed her out of the parlor nto the garden, and was soon walking through *  o   82      GULLIVEg JOI. the various paths which were bordered with flowers of the most brilliant colors, but which did not make a modest rose bush in full bloom appear the less beautiful to me. I plucked a rose and presented it to her. Our conversation now turned upon the affairs of earth, and, at her request, I gave a full account of my adven- tures. We had been thus engaged but a few moments, it seemed to me, when the confound- ed sun dropped behind the hills-the earth being hid by a large cloud gave no light, and we found our way back to the house as well as we were able. Supper was ready, and we ad- joirned to the table. After supper, having promised Colorondo that I would accompany him to the king's audience on the next (Kailoo- itish) day, I immediately bade the ladies good night, and retired to my chamber. I was awakened in the morning by the bright rays of the sun streaming into my window, and rising, hastened down- to the parlor, where I found my friend awaiting my arrival. We instantly departed for-the palace. The streets were thronged with people, all rushing towards the same place; and perceiving that we would   VOYAGE TO KATTOO.     83 not arrive in time, my companion called a car- riage, and we rattled off at a great rate. We arrived at the door of the audience-chamber full five congrets before the time for opening. The two large doors were swung open, and we stood in presence of the king. The audi- ence room was wide and very long; on either side of the room stood a file of earlets-the same kind of personages as Cracko, Colorondo's servant, whom I have before described. They were clothed in beautiful crimson uniforms, each holding in his hand a long spear, with a broad, glittering head. The throne was situated at the farther end of the room. It was composed entirely of gold, and was the only particle of that precious metal found on the continent. It was elaborately carved, five generations of Kailooites having been employed in making it. The centre of the hall was filled with courtiers who were anxious to pay their homage to the king. When we entered the apartment, they made way, that we might approach.   My Companion bended his knees before the king; ;hen rising from his humble posture, conducted ne to the foot of the throne, saying: e throne, sqing:   84       GULLIVER JOL ( A stranger, your majesty." The king welcomed me, and placed me on a seat by his side; then turning to Colorondo, whispered in his ear, upon which Colorondo prepared himself for the business of the court. Petitions were presented, read, and commented upon. After answering these, Colorondo read a paper, which, he said, was of considerable importance, and demanded immediate atten- tion. The writer of the paper set forth that the carlets, or servants of the good citizens of ]Kailoo, were in the habit of holding nightly meetings, where they  concerted measures whereby they might be able to free themselves from their lawful masters; that the writer thereof had been present at one of these meet- ings, disguised as a carlet, and he sincerely thought that a bold attempt would soon be made by them to free themselves. He would respectfully suggest, that they might be dis- qualified for holding arms, as they might turn them upon their own masters, instead of pro- tecting them. He would farther suggest, that a body of carlet-holding citizens might be organized from such citizens as would be will-   VOYAGE TO KATrLOO.     85 ing-to serve, to protect themselves and neigh- bors from the assaults of the carlets; and, for such services they should be paid a moderate salary out of the public treasury. He hopes that these few suggestions will meet with your majesty's approbation. After discussing the merits of the paper with his prime minister, the king said that the suggestions certainly deserved attention, and that he would give immediate orders that they should be carried out to the very letter.   $  C1TATPTER  iI. THE discussion concerning the carlet-paper had occupied the mind of the king until din- ner-time, and his majesty having invited Colo- rondo and myself to dine with him, we were conducted from the audience-chamber directly to the dining-hall. The hall was very small; and as the king had no other guests, the table was spread but for three. The females of the king's household are not allowed to be seen by any other man than the king; even the princes, after arriving at a certain age, are not allowed to see their mothers or sisters. The plate upon the table was made of silver, richly chased and ornamented with precious stones. Goblets and tankards formed of crystal, richly stained with different colors, were placed at various   VOYAGE TO ]KALToo.     87 parts of the table. Delicious soups formed the first course; then meats roasted in such a manner that their rich juices were preserved within them; next followed fowls of almost every description; and lastly, fish, which, although very small, were of exceedingly fine flavor. I was surprised that the king sat so long at the table, while his subjects seldom devoted-more than two minutes for the same purpose. Upon speaking of it in an under- tone to Colorondo, he said to the king: "Gulliver wonders why it is that your majesty is so long at dinner, while your sub- jects are such fast-eating people." "You must know," said his majesty to me, "that we of the royal family have great ad- vantage over our subjects. While they live but seventy killgames, we are allowed to live over one thousand (about thirty years). I will give you an outline of our government. It is not an absolute monarchy, as you may sup, pose. The laws, in fact, are made by the peo- ple. For instance, a number of the inhabi- tants wish that a certain law should be made; they therefore draw up a paper to that effect,   88      GULLIVER JOI. and having procured a sufficient number of signatures affixed to it, it is presented to me, and if I see that there is no legal reason why it should not become a law, I approve and sign it, and then it is a law. I have, how- ever, in the course of my reign, often been called upon to approve of a law which the fathers of one generation thought perfect, and in the course of a few killgames petitioned to repeal it by their wiser sons. The only cause of contention in our otherwise perfectly peace- ful country is, whether it is according to the Great Code of Laws-which is a code of laws made by the founder of this people, and which is preserved and handed down to the people by a number of priests, whose only calling is to explain' the laws; but who have so many different explanations, that one scarcely knows which one to believe, to keep the carlets in bondage or not. Truly they somewhat re- semble human beings, for we can teach them to speak; but here the resemblance ceases, for they are both beastly in shape and morals; and we have to keep them under very severe laws to prevent them from committing crimes.   VOYAGE TO rAILOO.     89 Nevertheless, a portion of my subjects are in favor of releasing them from servitude; others think it better to send them to a far distant part of the country, where they can govern themselves. Those who are in favor of giving them, unconditionally, liberty, think it would be unfair to send them away from their native countryv, to which they must undoubtedly have become attached. I think they could not govern themselves, for they seem to have no mind farther than that which teaches them to eat and sleep. I am of opinion, therefore, that they are better off as they now are. They are well provided for by their masters--in fact, a severe penalty by law is imposed upon him that treats his servant cruelly; when, if they were liberated, who among my people would be willing to associate with those so far below him? as, in point of intellect, they seem to have no more than our domestic animals. Although they have often been allowed the privilege of education, they invariably refused to learn. I think they were never born to be free; and I have often been told by priests of great learning, that the Great Code of Laws   VU      GULLIVERi JOI. plainly points out that they should be kept in -bondage." He here ceased. I then told him that what he had said about the carlets of his country, reminded me of the slaves in mine own. I told him that there was no marked difference in form between the master and slave, save only that the slave was black. The king here said, that if no more difference existed be- tween a Kailooite and his carlet than difference in color, he would liberate them immediately. I said that our blackest slaves had been fre- quently educated, and had proved themselves capable of attaining to a high position in literature. "What do you mean by blackest slaves " inquired the king. "Have you white slaves also?" I answered that there were men kept in bondage, in whose complexion there could not be traced the smallest particle of black blood; but that, from the possibility that they might have descended from  slaves that had inter- married with the white man, they were thus enslaved, although their sBne was as white as   VOYAGE TO KAIOO      9 mine own. I said that there were a number of white men that were laboring to free our country from this disgraceful badge that is the only mar to our motto, "The land of the free;" and that they hoped to succeed, although I saw no immediate prospect of it. The slaves were generally treated well by their masters, as it was for their interests to make them com- fortable. I think, upon the whole, it would be better to send them back to their own native country. I here related to him; of the slave trade, and to what an horrible extent it was carried, as the profits of the trade were enor- mous. The king then inquired the state of the arts and sciences in my country. I told him that all the knowledge I had obtained on the subject was through the medium of books; but that, from what I had read, I thought that our nation stood among the highest in the world for her encouragement of artists and scientific men. The greatest living sculptor was a native of my country-that to it must be given the honor of being the home of the inventors of the steamboat, the telegraph, and other inventions of the greatest utility. I told   92      GtsULlViK Jot. him of Washington, whose name had been- handed down to the children of those for whom he fought, as the father of his country; of Franklin, that had brought the lightning from the clouds. I told him of Fulton, the great inventor; and of Morse, who used the lightning as a servant. But I talked mystery. He knew nothing of wars, lightning, or steam. I therefore had to enter into a more extended explanation, as far as my poor abilities would admit; and with the assistance of Colorondo, who had read a great deal, I was able to make him understand. We had conversed until the sun had arisen and set thrice, before we thought of leaving the table. Finally, the king, who appeared highly entertained, in- sisted upon our remaining in the palace until the next day; he therefore ordered a servant to conduct us to our chamber, where, exceed-' ingly fatigued, I threw  myself upon the e couch; and Colorondo, following my example, we were soon fast asleep. After a long and refreshing sleep, we arose, and having bid the king good-bye-who insisted upon my calling again-we left the palace. On our way home,   VOYAGE TO rA TLO0.     93 towards which we ;were leisurely walking, we were arrested by hearing the shouting 'of a great crowd of people, who were rushing towards the western gate of the city. As a disturbance was a thing of great rarity, my companion thought best to follow them, and see what was the difficulty. We could not keep up with the crowd; therefore, chartering a carriage, we sprang into it, and followed swiftly in their track, overtaking them at the foot of the mountain, where they had collected together in a crowd. By virtue of Colorondo's office, we were admitted through the crowd to its centre, where, seeing a number of glittering objects like golden toys lying upon the ground, I was about picking one up when my arm was stayed by a bystander; thereupon, Colorondo demanded an explanation. It seemed that at different periods of time, there had been seen upon various parts of this particular mountain, these glittering objects, which. were placed there seemingly as a temptation; for frequent- ly some unwary citizen had -been induced, byr their outward beauty, to take them from the ground, which, no sooner he does, than he is   "      GrLLIVMf JOI. suddenly drawn up into the air, and never more, heard from. That morning, while a company of young lads of the city were en- gaged in their sports, one of them espied the trinkets, and seized one, and was instantly drawn into the air. Colorondo, drawing his sword from its scab- bard, passed it several times over and around one ef the trinkets; and having satisfied him- self that the invisible cord that was attached to it was cut, picked it from the ground. It was a piece of metal so much resembling gold that it took an experienced eye to discover it was baser metal. To see the effect produced should a person pick up one of the trinkets, Colorondo took a small domestic animal, some- what resembling a tortoise, which a boy was playing with, and fastened it to one of the pieces of metal; instantly the poor animal was drawn with great velocity from the ground, and we soon lost sight of it among the clouds, Satisfied with his experiment, he ordered that the men should carefully cut with their swords - the invisible cords, and convey the trinkets to the king.  This was complied with success-   VOYAGE TO KILOO.     95 fully, except in one instance, when one of the swordsmen imprudently seized the bauble be- fore cutting the cord. In an instant he was drawn from his feet; and had I not passed my sword rapidly over his head, thus severing the cord, he would have certainly been lost. Having seen that his orders were obeyed, Colorondo called the coachman, and entering the coach, we were soon on our way home., Having arrived at the house, Colorondo went to his-office, and I to the parlor. The-soft sounds of the- Elopide were filling the room; and then the sweet words of an English ballad fell upon my ear, uttered by the voice of her I loved. I listened without letting my presence be known to her. She ceased, and bent her lovely head over the keys; then, with im- patient- blows, struck the keys, opening the air-damper to its widest extent, the cords giv- ing out their grandest notes. Then the music, soft and low, came from the instrument as the beautiful performer lightly touched the keys. Taking the opportunity, I quickly advanced to her side. She again ceased; then sang a bal- lad-a great favorite of mine, that she had   96      GULLtVXK JOI.  heard me sing. I joined in the song with her. She hastily turned around, and putting on an air of mock dignity-- "Well, sir; what account can you give of yourself? having been absent from the house for forty-eight days. Come, sir, I demand your excuses." "Your father must furnish my excuse," I answered; " but remember I have only been out forty-eight Kailooite days." "That was forty-eight too many," she re- turned; "but since you lay the blame upon my dear father's shoulders, I suppose I must forgive you; but, remember, you must not leave our presence for so long a time from this day henceforth." At this moment her mother entered the room, and, at her suggestion, we adjourned to the breakfast-room, where we found her lord busily engaged in reading the various news- papers that had been sent in during his absence. Sitting down to the table, Mrs. Brown, with a smile upon her good-natured countenance, pour- ed out for me a cup of genuine Mocha coffee. It was excellent. After breakfast, Colorondo   V*AGE TO NATL(06.     97 said that he had considerable business, and that he must leave the ladies to amuse me. "Are you found of fishing?" he inquired. I was passionately fond of the gentle sport. "Well, then," he continued, "my wife and Martha are good companions for you. They are the greatest fishermen in the country."; Thus saying, the old gentleman wended his way towards the office. Martha entered into the idea suggested by her father with great eagerness, and  calling Cracko, the carlet, whom I have before described, 4she directed him to prepare the rods and lines. He immediately started to obey her orders, and impressed with the importance of his office, quickly flew around, and soon had everything ready. Then going for the coach, which lihe soon had in front of the house, we entered it, and were on our way to the mountains which completely -surrounded the city.   CHAPTER VIII. AEmR a short drive, we arrived at the banks of a beautiful lake, when, springing from the coach, we were soon busily engaged in pre- paring our lines and bait. After going through the usual operations of a fishing-party, such as baiting, mending broken lines, putting on hooks, etc., etc., etc., we seated ourselves upon the soft moss that skirted the margin of the lake, and were soon intently engaged in our sport. We had angled for some time without success, when suddenly, Cracko, who was fishing upon a long reed that far extended into the water, cried out, "I have one," at the same time dancing in frantic glee upon his frail support, which, trembling beneath his weight, rolled over, and poor Cracko fell ouse   VOttAGEa TO KAILOO.    99 into the water, and would have been drowned, had I not pulled off my jacket, sprang in, and seizing him by the long hair of his head, dragged him ashore, where he sat panting for breath, and looking at me with no grateful feeling, apparently, for I heard him mutter, "I wonder why the fool caught me by the hair " at the -same time brushing up his matted swab, as though the indignity of my touch had destroyed its stiffness. This incident put somewhat of a damper upon our fishing, but the hot rays of the sun soon dried my clothes, and I recommenced the sport of which I was so ardently fond. Martha took the first fish., and. I was all curiosity to see it. It was a very small one, a little like the brook trout in shape. It had but one eye, and that directly in the centre of its head, which sparkled a moment in the sunshine like a diamond, then quenched, as it struggled in the. convulsive throes of death. Martha held the little fish in her hand, and a pearly tear of regret at its sad fate fell from her eyes. At that,moment I felt a sharp tug at my line, and upon pulling it, found that I had   100     GOULLDVEr JOI. * hooked a very large fish, which struggled for his liberty like a good fellow. Cracko sprang to my assistance, but was not of much service, as he was so excited that he did not pull in one direction for a moment. At last, by considerable exertion, the fish was landed. Cracko fairly screamed with delight, jumping backwards and forwards over the fish as it lay-upon the ground. Just as Cracko was giving a leap, the fish gave one great dap with his broad tail, which, striking Cracko on the back, knocked him flat upon the sand. Arising from the ground, he walked off, rubbing the injured part with one hand, and shaking the other at the fish. Meanwhile Mrs. Brown, Martha, and myself, continued our sport. "I have frequently," said Mrs. Brown, "heard that the ladies of your country far exceed the English ladies in beauty." "There is no doubt," I answered, (" that the girls of my native land far exceed the English girls, in beauty, with some exceptions," at the same time glancing toward Martha, who, upon perceiving it, blushed slightly, and turned   VOYAGE TO KATLOO.     1 01 her head; "but they are too forward; their anxious mothers are generally too hasty; striving to marry them even before they are sixteen years of age; putting long dresses upon them, and then hurrying them into society, they think they are women, and conduct them- selves accordingly. Then parties, balls, thea- tres, concerts, and every amusement offered in fashionable life is offered them, which they eagerly accept, and thus premature old age comes on them, and before they are twenty-five they look thirty." I was here interrupted in my dissertation upon  American ladies, by a loud scream. Turning around, I could see nothing, but upon following up the sound, discovered that it issued from  a large hole, or cave, in the rocky sides of the mountain, and upon entering the cave, saw Cracko engaged in fierce encoun- ter with an animal of the most uncouth form. It some what resembled a huge frog, and as it stood upon its hind legs, with its fore legs tightly clasped around Cracko's neck, it looked almost like a human being. I saw that the animal was fast getting the advantage of poor   102      GULLIVER JOI. Cracko, so I out sword, and run it through the body. A great quantity of green blood issued from the 'wound, deluging the ground. The animal gave one frightful bellow, and fell in a heap upon the ground. At the cry of the animal, another of the same species, its mate, I supposed, hopped out from the interior of the cavern, and before I was aware of its presence, sprang upon me, encircling my neck with its clammy arms, and I should have certainly been suffocated had not Martha, who had followed me, thrust the sharp end of her fishing-rod in the creature's eye, which caused him so much pain that he loosened his hold around my neck, and I instantly thrust my sword into his breast, upon which he fell beside his companion. From Cracko's account, it seems that, tired of fishing, he had wandered away from us, and, perceiving the animal sitting outside his cave, had determined to capture him. But the creature was too strong for him, and he shouted for help, to which cry I responded in the manner that I have described. We now thought it time for us to return,   VOYAGE TO - KAILOO.    103 and, entering the carriage, we were soon on our return home, where, after a rapid ride, we arrived, and immediately after supper, feeling much fatigued with the 'day's adventure, I retired to my chamber. I must have slept very long, for I did not rise from my bed until long after the family had breakfasted. Colo- rondo laughed heartily at our adventure with the singular animal, and then proposed that I should take a walk with him. First entering his office, he gave me a large bushy wig and a red coat, telling me to disguise myself with them, he following the example. We were about visiting the cwrlet conspirator's club- room, and thus disguised ourselves that we might hear the proceedings without being observed. We proceeded towards the club- room just as the sun was setting, 'entering the room before the conspirators arrived, and secured a seat where we could both hear and see without attracting attention. Presently the company commenced gathering. In imitation of their masters, they all wore breeches, which fitted their uncouth limbs with awkward precision. There was a rough iron table   104      GULAVI JOI. placed in the centre of the room, the guests seating themselves upon benches placed' on either side of it. The landlord, an old carlet, who, from his extreme age, had been liberated by his master, was busily engaged in placing mugs of a steaming mixture before each indi- vidual. Having placed a mug before me, I tasted of the contents. It tasted like boiling hot turpentine, and I placed the mug back upon the table, unable to drink the potent beverage. The carlets, however, drank great quantities of it, smacking their long, thin lips over the disgusting compound with almost beastly pleasure. Speeches and toasts of the most exciting nature were given, stirring up the carets to rebellion against their masters, advising them, when the time came for action, to spare none, young or old, but to slay every Kailooite in the country, and then govern it themselves. I could see the necessity of follow- ing the suggestions of the paper that had been read to the king in my presence. I was glad when the time came for us to take our departure from the presence of this wicked company.   VOYAGE TO XALOO.     '105 I had, through Colorondo's exertions, been appointed to an office second to the prime- minister. My official duties were light, and I was comparatively contented. But my happi- ness was rendered complete,'when I asked and received from her parents the promise that Martha should be mine. She, dear girl, loved me with all the strength that her heart was capable of. - But in the midst of this happiness, my political life suddenly became in a pre- carious position. Honnolumeek, my first friend, became my enemy. He had, by some under- handed means, attached bhimself to the king's person, and hating Colorondo as cordially as he did myself, commenced operations so as to deprive us of the king's favor and protection. He had, some time previous to my arrival, been presumptuous enough to ask the hand of Martha in marriage. Colorondo determined that his daughter should not marry a native of Kailoo, and she, not loving him, denied him. For this, Honnolumeek determined to have revenge, not wishing, however, that OoloroMdo should suispect him until it was accomplished. The king had not signed my official papers,   106      GULLIVER JOI. although I had fulfilled the duties of the office. One day Colorondo told me that, fromn what he had heard, it would be better for me to send my resignation of the office to the king. I followed his advice, and had the extreme mortification of hearing that Honnolumeek had been ap- pointed in my stead.. I knew that he would not be satisfied with this, but that he aspired to Colorondo's office, and would leave no stone unturned to obtain it. I warned him of it, but Colorondo laughed and appeared to think that it would be next to an impossibility to remove him from his position. He was correct, for the king had found him so useful that, despite Honpolumeek's efforts, he still continued to hold his office. His majesty was apparently very sorry that I had resigned, and continued to treat me with the utmost kindness, but still said that perhaps it was better that I had done so, as the people began to grumble when they saw .two foreigners holding such high offices, which by right belonged to them. An accident now occurred that changed the happiness of our family into unutterable misery. Mgartha had gone to the mountains in search   VOYAGE TO KAILOO.     107 of berries, taking Cracko for a companion. She had promised that she would be home before the evening meal, but when the time came she did not arrive. We waited supper far beyond the usual period, until thoroughly alarmed, Colorondo and myself set out to search for her. 'We ascended the mountain, and after a long, fruitless search, returned home, hoping that she might have returned during our absence, but we were bitterly disappointed. We again set out to the oppo- site side of the city, accompanied by many citizens, among whom Martha was generally beloved. Ascending the mountain, one of the citizens discovered her basket partially -filled with the fruit for which she had been searching. We went a little farther, and saw Cracko lying upon the ground, apparently dead, but upon nearing himn he recovered, and springing to his feet, shouted, or rather sung: "Miss Martha's gone to heaven-Cracko saw her-Cracko saw   her! liss Martha's gone to heaven-Cracko saw her!" The truth flashed through my mind. She had picked up one of the baubles, that were so   108      GULLIVfif JOT. plentifully strewed upon the mountain to entrap the unwary. The fact appeared so apparent that Colorondo could not but believe it. "How frequently have I warned her," cried the unfortunate father, "not to touch these detestable trinkets; but the tempter came when she was unguarded. Oh! I shall never behold my beloved child again," and the strong man wept.  "How shall I tell her mother-it will kill her." I offered all the consolation that I was able, but, overcome with grief myself, it served only as fuel to the fire, and he wept in despair. His tears seemed to relieve him, and he again appeared composed. "Come, Glliver," said he, "your loss is as great as mine, and I, as the eldest, should comfort you. Come, let us go home, and break the news to my wife." We were not the only persons that felt her loss. The whole mass of citizens were as deeply affected, and there was not a dry eye among them. They, too, had lost a friend, for Martha, by her universal kindness, had won the hearts of all that knew her.   VOYAGE TO CATTLOO.    100 We hastened home, and found Mrs. Brown anxiously awaiting our return. She saw by our countenances that we were unsuccessful-- that our worst fears were confirmed. "Speak!" she cried, "is she dead?" I hastily gave her an account of our suspicions. "'ITis as I suspected," she said, in a broken voice. "My daughter, my dear daughter is lost. Oh! that I should have lived to see this day; but I must bear it, for there is one that must suffer even more than I." She approached, me, and putting her arm around my neck: "My son," said she, "forgive me for rankling the wound, but she was my daughter --my daughter--my daugh-ter--my-" and she, fainting, sank into my arms. Conveying her to the sofa, I gently laid her upon it, and called the servants, who immediately commenced reviving her, but it had .been better had they not done so, for 'now she was in happy unconciousness of her sad loss. I will not dwell longer upon this unhappy scene, as the thoughts of it, even now, call the:   -' -'"-" tear to my eyes.   CHAPTER IX. IT is an old saying " that misfortune never comes single," and thus it was with me; for while in the midst of this misery, an order came from the king that I must find means to leave the country, under penalty of death if I did not obey.. This appeared to awaken Colo- rondo from his lethargy, into which he had fallen after the disappearance of his daughter. He immediately hastened to the palace, and demanded an explanation from the king, who gave him a paper drawn up by Honnolumeek in the following manner: "Whereas, on the ninth pelitina of killgame sixteen thousand nine hundred and thirty-two, of the reign of the present royal family, a   VOYAGE TO KAILOO.     1" certain stranger, giving his name as Gulliver, Joi, came into the hitherto peaceful country of Kailoo; that he imposed upon, and received instructions in the language of the country from the writer hereof, for which instructions the writer hereof received no recompense; that the writer hereof, at his own expense, conveyed the said Gulliver Joi, and his effects, from the city of Tzerney, where the said Gul- liver first stopped, to the great city of. Kailoo; that he, the said Gulliver Soi, after his arrival at the great city of Kailoo, did then and there desert him the said writer hereof, and consort with a certain Colorondo, who, in virtue of being an officer of high command, did then and there harbor him, the said Gulliver Joi; that said Gulliver Joi had, by his majesty's great command, been appointed to an high office, which said office the said Gulliver Joi did then and there refuse to accept, much to his majesty the king's displeasure; that the writer hereof has received information that the said Gulliver Joi, and the said Colorondo, did attend  a meeting of conspirators, with full intent to lead them, the said conspirators, on to   "2      GULLIVER JOI, rebellion against the good and loyal citizens of Kailoo; that the writer hereof respectfully suggests that the said Gulliver Joi be com- manded to leave the country within the period of one killgame after the reception of that command, under the penalty of death at his refusal so to do. (Signed)   "HoNNOLrMEEE, "and motay others." Indignant at the charge of treason made against himself, Colorondo instantly sent to his office after a paper he had drawn up on the subject of his presence at the meeting of the conspirators. This paper devised means whereby the farther proceeding of these meet- ings should be stayed. The king, after perus- ing the paper produced by Colorondo, was assured that he had no evil motive for visiting the meeting. But my case was worse. Honno- lumeek had preferred other charges against me-of having defrauded him. At-this Colo- rondo asked, and received permission, for my attendance at the examination of the truth of Honnolumeek's paper. 'I was, therefore sent for; and upon my arrival, demanded to be   VOYAGE TO  AILBOO.    113 confronted by my accuser. Honnolumeek ap- peared before the throne. I then told him that he had been appointed by the governor of Tzerney as my instructor, and that money had been paid him for that purpose; that my ex- penses, until I had arrived at the city of Kai- loo, were paid entirely by, the government. Colorondo, to prove this assertion, placed be- fore the king documents from the governor of Tzerney, wherein my statement was verified. Honnolumeek was dumbfoundered at the course things had taken. But there was yet one ob- jection to my being freed from the obligation enforced by the order of the king, which was this: The paper of charges was signed by Honnolumeek and many, others. The other signers of the paper must be convinced that the statements set forth in the paper are false. Honnolumeek was ordered to produce those persons, whereupon he said: "Your majesty, I confess that I alone signed the paper; but I did it with good intentions. I thought your sceptre in danger of being wrested from you by these foreigners; and this must serve as my excuse." 8   "4      -ULLLvYB Joi. "Sir. " returned the king, "you have been guilty of the greatest crime that has ever been committed in the kingdom during our reign. We therefore banish you from the city, never more to place your feet within its walls, unless you wish to die. Leave our presence." The guilty man slunk from the room, and I never saw him again. It afterwards appeared that he had circulated the paper among many citizens, striving to obtain their signatures; but he had made himself obnoxious in his official capacity, and as Colorondo was generally be- loved, he could not persuade them to assist in such a detestable crime. After this, everything went quietly for the rest of the time that I held office under the king. One day, while Colorondo and myself were talking over the probabilities of our ever again finding our beloved Martha, a thought flashed through my mind. I remembered that the old man of the rock had said, that he had discovered that there was a great quantity of iron upon the planet. This fact had been well attested by the large amount of that metal which I saw used. I thought that the machine   VOYAGE TO ATOX)O.    15 that bore me from earth to the planet, being left without a guide, the loadstone vane would incline towards the spot where the iron was deposited, and the machine might be found, and that through its assistance I might be able to go in search of Martha. I therefore in- quired of Colorondo, who informed me that the summit of the northern mountain was composed entirely of iron. I then stated my reasons for hoping to find the cylinder. He thought them very plausible, and said he would accompany me to the mountains. As to go -there in carriages was imnpracticable, we immediately started on foot. After a tedious walk up the steep sides of the mountain, we arrived at the iron quarry. The woriien were busily engaged in getting out largeil-cks of iron. I inquired of them whether any such machine as my cylinder was, had fallen near the works. They said that it had not; but there was a large quarry a short distance from them. Taking one of the men as a guide, we went to the quarry, and, to my joy, after a long search, the- cylinder was found! The shock from its sudden fall had displaced the   "6      GULL1VEK JOI. ball of malleable flame; but upon farther search it was found, still in a state of ignition. The steel box was in its proper place. I thought to show Colorondo how it worked; so pointing out to him the spot to put the malle- able flame, I crawled into the cylinder, and told the workmen to raise it upon their shoul- ders. I had no fears; for with the help of the vane I could return whenever I chose, but I   i wished to show Colorondo that my hopes of rescuing his daughter were not founded in my imagination. I then told him to place the ball of flame in the position that I had pointed out. tHe did so. The strong blast of flame from :  the pointed end of the cylinder burst out with :i its: greatest force. The frightened workmen loosened their hold from the machine, which rose from the ground with the utmost rapidity. After having arisen far enough to prove that I might be able to search in the upper regions   j of the air for Martha, I thought I would re- turn. But to my dismay the vane had been broken in its fall, leaving only the repelling extremity of it upon the cylinder, and I was therefore unable to descend. Looking back, I   VOYAGE TO ATLOO.    117 Baw Colorondo beckoning me to return. Poor man! he had lost his daughter; and now I, his almost second child, was fast disappearing from his sight. He stood upon the rock, and watched the progress of my cylinder, until he vanished from my sight in the distance. Over- come with grief at the unlooked-for accident, I bowed my head and wept, caring nothing for the safety of my descent. Suddenly the cylin- der turned around, and I, upon looking down, saw the blue waters of the ocean. I thought of the stop-key, by the aid of which I gradu- ally decreased the supply of flame, and with a splash fell into the ocean. I hailed a small vessel that was passing by. They heard my shout; -a boat was lowered, and I soon stood upon the deck of the vessel. My wants were all supplied by the kind officers and crew, who were exceedingly surprised at my adventure. which I related to them. END OF VOYAGE THE FIRST.   k) I I   VOYAGE THE SECOND. TO HYDROGENIA.   1'   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA. CHAPTER    I. BErG abundantly able-for I still had the five hundred dollars that I had discovered in the old portrait-I insisted upon paying the captain of the bark "Emma," that had picked me up, my passage. The vessel was bound for New Orleans, where, after a pleasant voy- age, we arrived. I determined to visit my native village; for it seemed the only home for me on this earth. I, therefore, bidding the good captain farewell, left the vessel, and went to a hotel, where I intended to remain a few days, as I wished-to see the city. One day, while listlessly wandering through   122      GULTIVI;R JOI.  * the streets, my attention was attracted by a beggar-the most pitiable-looking object I ever saw. He had no legs, but progressed forward ly means of a large wooden. bowl, in which he was seated, and then walking with his hands. He scanned me closely, and a cry of joy escaped him as he said: "Gulliver!" The voice was familiar. I looked again. Yes, it was my old friend, the old man of the rock! "I have been searching for you some time," said he; "and if you will follow me, I will speak privately with you," I was as anxious to see the old man as he could have been to see me; and as he hopped along with his huge bowl, I slowly followed some distance behind him, that there might be no suspicion that I was so doing. He con- ducted me to an old, dilapidated house, and having entered, he securely fastened the door behind me, and went up a flight of rickety stairs. I closely followed him. He conducted me into an elegantly furnished apartment. Disengaging himself from his cumbrous bowl,   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.   123 he stepped out upon his short wooden stubs, the same man that I had met upon the rock. "I saw you when you so unceremoniously left the planet," said he; " but as you have not accomplished the task for which you were sent, if you are willing I will find means for your return. How is my old friend, Captain Brown ." "Captain Brown--your old friend!" cried I in astonishment. "How did you discover that he was there 2" "My young friend," said he, "if you had read the manuscript I gave you, you would have known all. The manuscript contains the whole history ; but give me an account of your adventures." I related to him everything that had occur- red, not even concealing my love for Martha. "How unfortunate it was that you lost the cylinder upon the mountain," said he; "I think I gave you particular instructions con- cerning your landing; but it cannot be helped. We will try once more. I hope I can prepare a machine which, with your experience, will be able to bear you safely to the planet.   i24      GULLIVTR aOI. If you will follow me into the observatory, I will show you the planet." He conducted me up a long flight of steps, which led into a small square room, opea at the top, through which the stars could dis- tinctly be seen. In vain I looked for the planet Kailoo. The old man pointed it out to me, and examining it with one of his powerful telescopes, I could more distinctly see it. There being no time to lose, the old man said the sooner we prepared the machine by which I was to visit the planet the better. As he could not in a great many years make the malleable flame, or explosive powder, he had to provide simpler means, and trust the guidance to my skill. He therefore prepared a large silken balloon, which he filled with inflammable gas. The car, which was suspended directly beneath the balloon, was sufficiently large to contain four persons, beside the machinery to propel it through the air, which was composed of a set of pistons that would suck in the air at one extremity, and expel it with great force at the * other. The pistons worked with a crank and '&   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.    125 fly-wheel, and with such ease that a child might have turned it. We were about four days constructing the balloon. After it was prepared, I was ready for an immediate start. I did not inform the old man of my inten- tion of searching for Martha; for he had assured me that she was certainly lost, and that all attempts to find her would be unavail- ing. The evening after the balloon had been filled was set apart for my expedition. Open- ing a large trap-door in the roof of the obser- vatory, where we had made the balloon, I sprang into the car, eager for my depar- ture. "Oh!" cried the old man, "how I wish I was not a cripple that I might carry out mine own designs; but in you I have found a pro- per substitute. God speed you on your mis- sion."  With these words he threw into the car a bag of golden ingots, saying that it might be of some service, as I had told him that gold was very scarce in Kailoo. The old man cut the cords that held me to the earth. The bal-   126      GULLIVER JOI. loon first arose slowly, then shot up like an arrow from a bow. With a pocket telescope, provided for the purpose, I found the locality of the planet, and having veered the pistons around, I steadily turmed the crank. It was a splendid night; not a icloud marred the beau- tiful clear sky; the wind was hushed, and I made rapid progress towards my place of des- tination. My heart beat with wild delight as I neared the planet, so that with the aid of my glass I could distinguish the well-remembered spots upon its surface. I had now reached that part of this atmospheric ocean where the power of the earth's attraction ceased, and that of the planet commenced. My balloon, there- fore, became stationary, being equally drawnl by the two powers. I therefore elevated the pistons, andturned the crank with its greatest velocity, forcing me down towards-the earth; then placing the pistons in an horizontal posi- tion, the balloon rebounded, and was thrown into the planet's power of attraction; and if I had not, by rapid strokes of the piston, turned the balloon completely over, I would have fallen. However, it was all right soon-the   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.   127 earth being above me now, and the planet which I was about visiting, beneath. There- fore, gradually allowing the gas to escape, after a few minutes I alighted in safety upon one of the high mountains near the city of Kailoo. Upon looking around to discover my whereabouts, I saw the remains of Captain Brown's vessel, and near by the burial-place of his ill-fated ship-mates. I immediately scrambled down the steep side of the mountain, towards the dwelling of my good friend. I entered the house without knocking. My old friend, Cracko, was fast asleep behind the door. I could hear no one stirring. Entering the parlor, the Eolipide was open; I advanced to the instrument, and struck a few cords; finally, playing a simple air which Martha had taught me. I had played but a few bars, when the back-door was opened, and my dear-friend, Colorondo, alis Captain Brown, stood before me. "Gulliver!" he cried; "-my dear friend. How--where did you come from! I thought it was Martha; but come and see my wife; we are at breakfast."   128      GULL1VE c JOI. I hastened down stairs, and was soon seated at their table. I briefly related to them my adventures since last we met, then eagerly in- quired if they had heard anything of Martha. They had not; and had long given up hopes of seeing her again. Not so with me. I had determined to visit the mountains, and, at all hazards, pick up one of the baubles; for I had a presentiment that she was still alive. I did not, however, speak my mind to them. I then inquired who the old man of the rock was; but they did not know. This reminded me of the manuscript that he had given me on my first voyage. I therefore went up into my bed-chamber. It was in the same condition that I had left it. Even the tumbled bed- clothing, that bore evidence of the last time I had reposed in my friend's house, was undis- turbed. Everything that bore reference to my having once inhabited the room, was relig- iously preserved. Opening my trunk, I took from  it the manuscript, and hastening down stairs, gave it to Colorondo, who, having slightly examined it, said he knew nothing of it; but, upon close examination, I discovered   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA6.   129 the name, "R. Sweeting," written in a very fine hand upon the margin. ("Why," said he," that is my wife's father's name." It seemed from the perusal of the first part of the MSS. that Mrs. Brown's eldest brother had ran away from home at a very early age, and from whom they had never heard. 'Then fol- lowed an account of his journeys and adven- tures. In the course of his travels, he met with an old philosopher, who educated him in all the occult sciences. By means not ex- plained in the MSS., he discovered that his sister and her husband had been thrown by a singular accident upon this planet, and that he labored earnestly to invent some machine by which he could come to their relief; but an accident occurred by which he lost both his lower limbs. This deprived him of the power of visiting the planet in person; nevertheless he labored on, with the hope of finding a per- son whom he could trust with the expedition for their release. He at last found one; Gul- liver Joi, whom he thought would be able to visit the planet with a conveyance by which 9   130      GULLVER JOT. all could escape. This latter was merely in a marginal note, and must have been written while I was on the island; for the manuscript was full of other matter pertaining to his ad- ventures by land and sea.   CHF APrJ E't II. A1rtx perusing the manuscript, I requested Colorondo to accompany me to the mountain, and assist in bringing the balloon to the house, as it might be of great service to us hereafter. We found it lying nearly in the same position that I had left it, and packed it into as small a compass as possible, and with but little diffi- culty carried it home, where we carefully stowed it away for future use. I now inform- ed Colorondo of my determination of search- ing for Martha. He endeavored to dissuade me from attempting it, but I was firm; and, having told him not to mention it to Mrs. Brown until I had gone, I commenced pre- parations for my .departure, and having taken all the little conveniences that I was able to   132      GULL1VER J01. carry without trouble, accompanied by my friend, I ascended the mountain from which Martha had been conveyed. The glittering baubles were strewn plentifully around. The place was deserted; for this, although once the citizens' only amusement-ground was for- bidden, since the disappearance of Martha, to be so used, by his majesty. I bade Colo- rondo to be of good cheer, for I was confident of my success. He made another effort to dissuade me from my purpose; but I was im- movable. I carefully grasped one of the richest-look- ing baubles or baits. Instantly my wrist was encircled with a ring that sprung out from the object. A cold, numb feeling pervaded my arm, and I was drawn up into the air with such rapidity that I became insensible. Re- covering, however, just as I was drawn from the air into a thinner element, which I was unable to breathe, and would certainly have been suffocated had I not been plunged by an unseen hand into a vase filled with air. So deleterious was the effect produced by inhal- ing the element that I fainted. Upon recover-   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.    133 ing, I found I was in a large vase of a globular form, about twelve feet in circumference and k six or seven feet in depth. It was formed of a transparent substance, much resembling glass, but of such extreme translucency that I could see through it with as much ease as I could through air itself. The vase was placed in a very large apartment, but the ceiling appeared entirely too low for the extreme length and breadth of the room. Broad chairs, which resembled ours, although of sufficient size to comfortably seat a dozen men, were placed around the room. The, other furniture with which the room was filled, presented the same peculiarity. While examining these objects, the door opened, and there-walked into the apartment a man of such immense fatness that his girth must have been equal to the circum- ference of two or three hogsheads. He was not over six feet in height. He held in his hand---which reminded me most of a leg of mutton-a cloth, with which he commenced dusting the furniture with praise-worthy per- severance; marking much-noise as he went puffing and blowing around the room. iHe   184      GULLIVEB JOI. was clothed in a whitey-brownish jacket, pro- fusely ornamented with huge diamond-shaped buttons, which fitted closely around his un- couth elephantic form. His nether garments were made of a material resembling buckskin, and fitted his legs so tightly that they seemed the buckskin itself. His face was round, and entirely void of hair; his eyes very large, standing out from his face like blue tea- saucers, entirely eclipsing his fat, dumpy nose, the end of which could barely be perceived protruding out between them.  Springing around the room with an activity truly sur- prising, when his immense bulk was taken into consideration, he much reminded me of the dancing elephant that I once saw at a menagerie. Having become impatient at my confine- ment, I determined to leave the vase; therefore placing my hands upon its edge, I succeeded in lifting myself above it, but I could not breathe; the surrounding atmosphere was not suitable for my lungs, from the strong pungent odor it gave out. I concluded it must be a gas, known upon earth as hydrogen. Nearly   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.    135 suffocated by the little of the gas I had inhaled, I fell to the bottom of the vase. The dusting gentleman having seen my attempt at liberty, instantly ran up to the vase and placed a cover over it. "Halloa, there! What are you about " I shouted, with all my strength. The mingled look of fear and surprise that passed over his stupid countenance was really laughable. He looked at me for a moment, then dropping his dusting-cloth, ran from the room, presently returning in company with another, who I judged to be a female. She was much taller than her fat companion. Her dress consisted merely of a long piece of white cloth, which, encircling her throat, fell in particularly ungraceful folds, over her spare form. Her face was what is termed " hatchet- faced," her eyes jet black, and far set, sparkling like jewels in her famished-looking counte- nance. Her hair was short, standing erect over her face, like the bristles of a hearth- brush. Thinking that it was better to gain her good, than ill will, I gallantly kissed my hand to her, at the same time making a bow,   136      GULLIVER JOI. throwing back my heel, sailor fashion, at which she graciously opened her long, thin lips, and broke into a smile, disclosing a row of bluish white teeth, (the tops edged with gold,) that extended almost from ear to ear. I again kissed my hand to her, and the good lady was so pleased, that, taking off the cover of my vase, after dint of much exertion, she lifted me to her lips, and, in spite of my struggles, for I was suffocating under the effects of the hydrogen, united with her rank breath, kissed me, and then suffered me to drop to the bottom of my vase, where I lay completely-overpowered by the influence of the two combined noxious gases. Her companion, I thought, did not like her proceedings, for I saw, or fancied I saw, a slight look of displeasure pass over his features. After examining me a few moments longer, they both left the room, again returning, bringing with them a personage whose collos- sal size made the first one sink into insignifi- cance. He was richly clothed in closely-fitting garments, made of black velvet. His eyes were black, and very large, but shone with intellectual lustre. His head was perfectly   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIB.    18 bare, with the exception of a golden band that encircled it. He approached the vase, and looked anxiously at me. Thinking that he was some great personage, I spoke to him, and then bowed, at which he looked pleased. He then took the cover from off the vase, and would have taken me from it, had I not shaken my head violently, at the same time breathing loud and hurried, as though gasping for breath. He now spoke to the servants, speaking in the most musical language that I ever heard. It sounded so clear and distinct, that I fancied that I could understand the meaning. The two servants now seized the vase in which I was contained, by handles placed on either side for that purpose, and conveyed me into another apartment, which, to my gratifica- tion, was quite warm. Then drawing a table beside the vase, he seated himself before it, and opening a drawer, took from it some thin sheets of a metal, resembling silver; then taking a small pen, he commenced writing upon the silver sheets. The room was quite warm, and the air within my vase having become very foul from   138      GULLIVER JOX. my constant breathing, I became in danger of suffocating. Therefore, shouting to the gentle- man that was writing, I jumped from  side to side of my prison, until I had attracted his attention. He looked at me with a puzzled expression, not understanding me. It seemed all in vain. At last, throwing myself upon the bottom of the vase, I found a small trap- door, which, upon opening, I found led into the standard of the vase, which was made of an opaque substance. There was sufficient air to last me a few minutes, but that soon became too foul for breathing. I again as- cended into the vase, where, fairly exhausted, I threw myself upon the bottom, in despair. The gentleman seemed now to understand me, for hastening from the room, he soon returned, accompanied with two servants, each bearing large pails, or tubes of air. He then turned a  small faucet in the bottom of the vase, and the air within it, being of greater gravity than the surrounding hydrogen, was gradually drawn off. The servants then lifted up the tubes to the mouth of the vase, and poured the fresh air upon me. Of how   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.    139 refreshing! I immediately revived, and speak- ing my thanks, bowed to my keeper. He looked at me a moment, with a smile, and then arising from his chair, took from the table a small book, or at least it resembled a book, and placed it in the vase. I took, and exam- ined it, with considerable interest. It was very small, but the prettiest one I ever saw, the leaves being made of beaten silver, and the binding, of pure gold. It was apparently printed, for the characters were uniform, much resembling the German letters. In the first part of the book I discovered a long row of letters, placed under each other, in the same manner that the alphabet is printed in a spelling-book. My master looked at my operations with evident pleasure, and finally addressed me. I answered first in the Kailoo language, and then in English, but he was not able- to understand them. He returned to his writing, continuing in that employment for several hours. At regular intervals, of about an hour each, the air in my vase was changed. At    length a servant entered the room, and uttered a few words.   "O      GU  RIVtE JOI. My master pointed to my vase, and said some- thing to the servant, who, grasping both handles of the vase, lifted it from the table, and carried me down a steep pair of stairs, into a room where a long and broad, although not very high table, was standing. Around the table were seated several individuals, a-lady and several children, the boys not quite as large as their father, and the girls resembling animated sticks, clothed in white cloth. A scream of joy came from the younger part of the family, as I was placed upon the table. Huge round plates were placed before the males, and long narrow ones before the females. Large pieces of smoking beef, fried hams, and even eggs, were upon the table. The master of the house placed within my vase a glittering toy, bearing a great resemblance to the one that I had been taken with, thinking, I suppose, that it was my proper food, but my appetite was not strong enough for such diet, and there, amidst plenty, I was in danger of starving to death, had I not shook my head violently, and even threw the, bauble from my vase, at the same time pointing to the ham and eggs.   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.   141 Fortunately they understood me, and my master placed some upon the smallest plate he could find upon the table, and put it in the vase. He also handed me a knife and fork, which, although pretty large, I handled with considerable ease. The children were highly gratified at seeing me eat with a knife and fork, the same as they did, and would have taken me from the vase, had not their mother forbade them doing so. I was extremely pleased with them, when I saw that they obeyed her without a murmur.   CHtAPTEtr II. IT being very easy to learn, I soon could speak the language sufficiently to give my master a sketch of the manner of the inhabi- tants of the world, and I could both read and write the language with the utmost ease. After I had progressed thus far in the lan- guage which   my master, Maldi .Fremung, labored assiduously to teach me, he proposed to me that I should relate my adventures to a few of his neighbors, which request I granted. In the meantime, he had ordered certain arti- zans to form, under my directions, a suit of apartments sufficiently large for my use, as the vase was not at all convenient. After it was completed, an upholsterer was introduced, who, after receiving his directions from me, furnish-   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.   143 ed my apartments in the most splendid man- ner. Velvet-covered chairs, sofas, and carpets made of the richest fabrics that the country could produce. A servant was appointed to- attend to me regularly. But the best arrange- ment was that of a stream of fresh air, which was so contrived that it would pass through my apartment continually, thus giving my apartments a constant supply. I will here mention that air was used by the Hydroge- nians in the- same manner that water is used by us. They drank it, and washed in it. Water they had, too, fortunately for me; but they used it only as a stimulant, in the same manner in which some people use those abom- inable beverages, whiskey, beer, rum, etc.; and it surprised them much when they saw me drink such quantities of water, when a very small portion of it would intoxicate them. I did not take my meals in my apartments; ; but having had my vase supplied with a table and chair, and forks made the proper size, I ordered the vase to be placed upon the table, and was thus enabled to eat with the family, and enjoy their conversation.   "4t     GULLIVER JOI.  The evening when the neighbors that my master had invited, had arrived. The com- pany assembled. My vase was placed upon a table in the centre of the apartment; and seating myself upon the chair, I commenced my narrative, giving them an account of my adventures. I then told them all I could con- cerning the manners and customs of the in- habitants of the world. I will not infringe upon the reader's patience by writing all I said. After I had concluded, my master said, that from my own representations my country- men were a set of knaves and fools-the knaves, by their superior duplicity, taking the advantage of the fools. "However, gentlemen," said he, turning towards the company, "I intend taking this Molwog through the country, that the rest of the Hydrogenians may have the opportunity of seeing and conversing with him." He then called a servant, and directed him to pass around among the company a silver card, one of which he gave me, bearing the following inscription: "Maldi Fremung will exhibit a live Mollo-   VOYAGE TO HrDBOoENIA.   145 wog, which was caught about twelve months since. This Mollowog can speak both its native and the Hydrogenian language. It will sing several songs in its native tongue, and will give a history of its adventures, and the place from whence it came. Tickets secur- ing seats will be sold at Crazton Spot, the evening before the exhibition, which will take place on the fifth day of the third week of the' next (second) month." Thus I discovered that I was to be shown through the country as a prodigy; but I dare not complain, and, in fact, thought that -it might be for the best, as it would give me bet- ter opportunities of finding Martha. The next day Maldi placed in my hand a news-sheet, printed about three days after my capture. It was a pretty affair, made of silver beaten until it had arrived to the thickness of paper, and printed with a peculiar acid, at the ; touch of which the silver blackened. It con- tained the following description, which will serve to show the manner by which I was taken, as well as the opinion of the Hydroge- nians of me. I have suspected that it was 10    "6      GULLlVEi JOI. written by Maldi himself, as I have discovered that it was customary in this country to praise one's self in the news-sheets, in the way of a "puff," I suppose. Thus it ran: A' A SINGULAR MOLLOWOG! "We learn from Maldi Fremung, Esq., that while engaged in the pleasing and innocent recreation of .oltoowoging, it was his good for- tune to take this singular being. What first excited Mr. Fremung's surprise was, that the creature was clothed in garments much resem- bling our own. It is about five feet ten inches in height, and has hair growing upon the top of its head, and a small tuft upon the chin. The eyes are small, and of a brownish color. -the skin exceedingly white, and of great smoothness. "But the strangest part of all is, that it speaks! And when Mr. Fremung gave it a spelling-book, it instantly turned to the fore- most part of the book, and conned over the alphabet, with seemingly great curiosity. As the creature seems much frightened whenever touched, Mr. Fremung has not as yet examin-   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.   14t ed it. He has strong hopes that he will be able to teach the creature the Hydrogenian language, as it evinces much intelligence. If he succeeds, which he most probably will, there will most assuredly be some astounding developments. We must, therefore, patiently await the time when he shall have succeeded. We think that that gentleman will be appre- ciated by the public, for his unceasing efforts to ferret out this mystery; and that the name of Maldi Fremung will be handed down to Hydrogenian posterity as the monument of perseverance, and one that is willing to em- ploy his time, talent, and, money for his coun- try's good. "' We understand that as soon as Mr. Fre- mung succeeds in teaching the creature the language, he will give an exhibition. We will publish, at intervals, all that occurs worthy of note concerning the Mollowog. "We forgot to mention that the bait with which Mr. Fremung took the Mollowog, was manufactured by Messrs. Mudfog & Saltstick, No. 11981 Cheston Place." The above is as near a translation of the   "8      oULLtVE JOL original, as it is possible for me to make. The work trol1woging may need some explanation. It is the habit of the ladies and gentlemen of Hydrogenia to amuse themselves by casting lines baited with glittering objects into the air, allowing the bait to rest upon the ground beneath.- Beasts, birds, and sometimes the people of Kailoo, attracted by the glitter of the baubles, are tempted to  seize them, whereupon they are summarily drawn up in- to the regions of Hydrogen. The men and animals caught, being inhabitants of Kailoo, are very short lived, and so tender that they are in almost all cases killed by the shock ere they reach the surface of the air. The reader will observe that 'itolowogw1g is nearly syno- nomous with fishing, save that the Hydroge- nians fish in the air, while we fish after the inhabitants of the water. It was remarked in the announcement as curious that I was cloth- ed; but the Xailooites that were so unfortu- nate as to be taken, were clothed in such loose garments that fell from them  in their rapid ascent. According to his promise, the editor of   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.    149 "The Daily .Curiosity Monger," kept its readers well posted in the occurrences worthy of note, that bore reference to me during my studies. Thus, at every issue of that interest- ing sheet, an editorial would appear, such as- "The Mollowog slept well last night; rising early this morning, bathed, and eat a hearty breakfast; had his apartments thoroughly cleansed by a domestic, and then applied him- self to his studies. Mr. Fremung thinks that it learns rapidly, and will soon be able to speak the language. We sincerely hope so, as well for the public as Mr. Fremung's benefit. The streets in front of that learned gentlemanls house, is hourly thronged with impatient citi- zens, striving to obtain a sight of the prodigy. Mr. Fremung thinks somewhat of petitioning for a troop of extra policemen to guard his doors. Success to him say we." Each day were the various news-sheets filled with such important matters taken from the "Monger," which was considered the " official organ." At length the important day arrived when Maldi announced to the public that I had   150      ULJLUVER JOI. completed my studies; and as the news-sheets contain his announcement, I will translate it from the " official organ," as near to the origi- nal as possible: "THE TIME HAS ARRIVED! "MALTDI FREMUNG ESQ., TRIUMPHAMT!  ( hel Mollowog can speak or Lanmguage / / / "Although our friend Mr. Fremung appear- ed so certain of his success in teaching this most singular creature the Hydrogenian lan- guage, we had our doubts, although for mo- tives of our own we did not pen them. But he has succeeded, and we are exceedingly re- joiced, for it shows what Hydrogenian per- severance can do; and for this convincing proof, that our citizens are capable of per- forming anything within the bounds of possi- bility, we are indebted to the learned and gen- tlemanly Maldi Fremung, who announces that he will exhibit the Mollowog to the public at Crazton Spot, on the fifth day of the third week of the next (second) month. The tickets for seats will be sold at public auction the   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.    151 evening before the exhibition. For particulars, see advertisement. We wish to caution the public upon one subject, which is, that the Mollowog must not be removed from the vase in which he performs, as he cannot exist in any other element save air, with which the vase is filled."   This 'was printed in every other news-sheet in the kingdom; and as the day for my ap- pearance drew nigh, the excitement knew no bounds. On the evening of the concert, while being conveyed to the hall where I was to be exhibited, the crowd pressed so closely around my vase, that I was fearful that it would be broken, and I be destroyed by their excessive kindness. However, I arrived at the hall safe. I will not trust myself with an account of the proceedings at that place; but having ob- tained a news-sheet that was apparently not so much biased by the public opinion, I pre- served it, and will strive and translate the account of my first appearance given by it, which, I think, is a faithful statement of all that occurred.   CHAPTER IV. THE news-sheet from which I am about tran- scribing the statement of my first appearance, was a sheet devoted to the, arts and sciences, called the "Noibla." The article taken from the" -Noibla," was thus headed: "OURIosrru . "Hollowog and its First Appearance. "We shall be brief in our notice of the thousand-and-one incidents connected with this all-engrossing subject, and devote our care mainly to an impartial notice of its appear- ance, and endeavor to assign to it its true posi- tion as a curiosity. On the fourth day of the third week of the second month, came the   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENA.    153 public sale of the tickets at Crazton Spot; and notwithstanding bad weather, the scene was one of much amusement and excitement, and the results indicative of the high pitch to which public curiosity has been wrought, and the infinite knowledge of the world displayed by two or three individuals. The first seat, a chair immediately under the stage, and ad- vanced beyond the first row of benches, was, after a spirited contest between a wooden- legged pauper, a coachman, and two or three bankers, knocked down to the former for the sum of 11,981 tzars. This money was gained by the pauper, by standing bareheaded upon the corners of the streets, pointing at his wooden leg with one hand and the other extended, into which all good citizens were in the habit of dropping a-coin. He intends, we understand, visiting and shaking hands with the Mollowog, and to then travel through the country, show- ing himself as a curiosity. "The result, we believe, of the whole sale of tickets, was about 110,981,672 tzars. The fig- ures are large. "On the fifth day of the third week of the   1l54     GOULLIVIM: JOI. second month, the exhibition took place, and we must award Mr. Fremung the highest credit for the excellence of his arrangements, which we shall not, however, detail. Within the building were congregated, probably, about seven thousand persons, and a crowd of assist- ants, outside, orderly and good-humored, shared in the excitement. One attempt was made to break into the hall, by the crowd on the outside, but the police were on the spot; the intruders were repulsed,-and took their defeat in very credible good temper. At the eighth hour the performance began. "Mr. Fremung had engaged the services of Mr. Dentil, to relate the incidents connected with the capture of the Mollowog. Mr. Dentil is an experienced and thoroughly able narrator, and without fuss or ostentation tells his story in a simple manner. He was warmly received by the public, on his appearance, and the narrative was loudly applauded. At the close of the applause, there came up from the vast area a noise as of- distant thunder-the hum of antici- pation, and excitement of congregated thou- sands:   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA. 1*5 "The Mollowog was coming!! 'The beautiful crystal vase, in which it was sitting, .was placed upon four elegantly embossed golden wheels, and drawn upon the stage by four men. Thus it came, and its reception baffles all attempts at description. We have been present at many other occasions of curiosity-excitement, but this, we believe, exceeded anything we remember, the great Sug not excepted. Seven thousand people, a moment before reasonable and quiet, suddenly became frantic. They clapped their hands, they shouted, and they roared in frantic joy. In short, there was nothing which they did not do, save hugging the object of their adoration. "But justice compels us to say, and while we say it, we do not wish to impugn Mr. Fremung's character as a curiosity-exhibitor, that we were profoundly disappointed. We think that we are allowed to express our belief in the story related by the Mollowog, and if our belief is correct, the Mollowog should be considered as a being endowed with an intellect the same as ourselves, and that it should be treated as an eminent stranger from a hitherto   16     GULLIVE JOI. unknown country, instead of being hawked around the country as a great curiosity. We shall see it again, and more fully express our opinion. "At the conclusion of the performance, Mr. Fremung was loudly called for, and coming forward, made an appropriate speech, which was long and loudly cheered." The above was the only truthful :.count of my first appearance, that I saw. Perhaps I do wrong in copying the notices of my appearance in this country, but as I was unable to judge of the opinion of the Hydrogenians by any other source, I hope that it is excusable. In another news-sheet, called the "Free Hydrogenian," which I afterwards discovered was an opposition print to the "Monger," the "official organ," I saw an account of another Mollowog, that had been captured by a citizen of a distant city, some time before I was taken. This, however, was contradicted by the "l onger;" still, the statement served to fan the hope that Martha was yet alive. The majority of the news-sheets that I saw were full of flaming accounts of my appear-   VOYAGE TO rDROGM.    1T ance, and brief notices of my adventures, the greater portion entirely false. One day my master entered the room where my apartments were placed, looking extremely vexed. "Look at that," said he, throwing a news- sheet into my room. Taking the paper, which was the "Free Hydrogenian," the first thing that met my eye was: "STARTLING NEWS! ANOTHER MOLLOWOG! 4"We learned from reliable authority that a Mr. Fiftim, a very good man, had in his possession a Mollowog of exceeding beauty, apparently a female; but as she always appeared much dejected, and Mr. Fiftim, although a good citizen, is entirely uneducated, he was unable to teach her the tHydrogenian language. Stimulated by this statement, we were induced to call upon that gentleman, and are happy to inform our many readers that the information was correct, and that, notwith- standing the many inuendoes thrown against the character of. our humble sheet, by our inveterate enemy, the Monger, we were correct   158      Guurmv   JOI. in our statement the other day,iof there being another Mollowog, the owner of which is entitled to more credit than Mr. Fremung. We will probe this matter to the bottom." It was with emotions of joy and gratitude that I read this, for it proved that my beloved Martha was still in the country. How to convey tidings of my arrival to her I knew not, but upon revolving the matter in my mind, I determined to bribe the female servant that I had first seen, and who had evidently a friendly feeling towards me, to take a letter from me to the editor of the "Free Hydrogenian," enclo- sing one to Martha, requesting him to convey it to her. My master had not touched any of the useful articles that I had brought with me, such as my watch, pen, paper, and pocket-inkstand, money, and such few things that I could carry around my person, as I had told him that if I was handled, my life would be in danger -Buletta, the maid-servant, was the only person that I dare trust. She was arranging my apartment the next day, and I thus addressed her:   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.    159 "Berletta, are you a friend of mine?" "Of course I am," she answered; ,( why do yout ask me such a foolish question? You know I love you, you little rogue." With these words, she thrust her head into my little parlor, at the risk of being suffocated by the air, and kissed me. "Now, Berletta," said I, "I wish you to do a great favor for me-one that will be of great benefit to me, and, moreover, I do not wish you to mention to any one else what I am about to tell you. Promise." She promised, and I could believe her, for the ladies of Hydrogenia are celebrated for their dislike of gossip. "I wish you," said I, " to convey this letter to the office of the 'Free Rydrogenian.' Do you know the place!" "Yes." "Well, if you will carry this letter to the office, and await an answer, I will give you a handsome present." "I'll tell you what I will do," said she; "if you will promise that upon my return you   160      GULLIVER JOI. will give me six kisses, for you have never kissed me, I will do it." "Agreed!" cried I, too anxious that the letter should be sent, to qualify the terms, but upon paying them, I almost repented the bargain. The letter I gave her, which I had written the day before, ran thus: "To the Editor of the Free Hydrogenian. DEAR SIR--I noticed in your yesterday's sheet an account of a Mollowog, that you saw at the house of Mr. Fiflim. If you will deliver the enclosed note and accompanying package to her, you will much oblige "Your obedient servant, GULLIVER JOI." Enclosed in this letter was a note to Martha, informing her of my arrival, and of my deter- mination to release her, and convey her to her home. I will not enter into the particulars of the letter, as love-letters are generally very flat and insipid to all save those interested. The package contained a few sheets of note paper and a lead pencil, with which she would   VOYAGE TO HDoGNIA.      161 be enabled to answer me. After a brief absence, Berletta returned, a flush of joy over- spreading her honest features. "All right!" said she; " he promised to do all your letter asked for. Now for my pay." She placed her long thin lips just at the surface of the air in my parlor, and reaching up, I kissed her the six times, allowing an interval for her to count, between each kiss.   CHAPTER V. THE next morning Berletta brought me the news-sheet, in which I saw mny letter to the editor, and also that which most attracted mny attention, was an editorial, where the editor said that he felt in duty bound to obey the request of the letter. It seemed, from what he said, that Martha, after reading my letter, which he facetiously termed hieroglyphics written upon a vegetable substance, burst into tears; then opening the box, took from it some writing materials, and quickly wrote a reply to the letter, which, the editor said he had sent me, but which I had not as yet received. That afternoon, however, my master entered the room, almost foaming at the mouth with rage. In one hand he held the news-sheet, and   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.   163 in the other a letter folded and directed to me, as the Mollowog; which letter was from Martha, although the friendly editor had directed it. "Why did you write that letter?" shouted he, at the same time dragging me from my parlor, and nearly drowning me in the Hydro- gen. I struggled violently, and he suffered me to drop into my natural element. "I wished," I answered, (" to discover if the statement he had made was true." "And supposing it was, what then?" "I wished to devise means whereby you could obtain her." I saw that his confidence in my loyalty to him  was fast returning. "But let me have the letter," I continued; "perhaps it will throw some light upon the subject." He gave me the letter. It was from Martha, and ran as follows: "DEAR GULmvfB :--With what surprise and heartfelt joy I received your letter, you can imagine. I have ever thought that you would exert yourself to the utmost to obtain my releasement from this horrid, horrid place.   164      GUtLLVER JOI. How I wish that I could see you; but if it is impossible, write me as often as you find the opportunity. If we should meet before you hear from me again, I wish you to remem- ber to address me in our native language; for although I can speak this language, having learned it from hearing the family in whose keeping I am, converse, I kept it secret. I sew for the good people, and they seem quite pleased with me. I will give you a full account of my adventures when I see you, which time I wish was now. Answer soon, and believe me, "Yours, affectionately, "MARTHA." I kissed the dear epistle over and over again, but was interrupted in this pleasing employ- ment, by the loud voice of my master: "What says the letter?" "It wishes me to request you to purchase her from Mr. Fiflim, which I think you had better do." "He will charge an extortionate sum of money for her." "It will be better for you, even should you   VOYAGE TO HDROaE .    165 give half your fortune for her, for, if he should exhibit her, your profits from my exhibition would be as much less." This seemed to convince him, for he instantly started for Mr. Fiflim's residence, which was some distance from the city. In the meantime, I busied myself in arranging the furniture in one of the parlors of my glass air-house, and having received directions from my master, I ordered that two additional rooms should be made. I took great pleasure in fitting them up for Martha; and as I placed the little conve- niences, of which I knew she was fond, my heart swelled with joy at the thought that she would soon be their mistress. Oh! how I longed for my master's return, and prayed that he would be successful in obtaining her'from her present owner. Berletta having heard that she was coming, came to me. "Well, my Mollowog," said she, "I hear that you are going to have a companion-a lady companion. Now, you won't love her better than you do your own Berletta, will you a"  "Berletta," said I, "I wish to ask you a   166 G'LLVE JOI. question. Supposing that a person sincerely loved you, and that you loved him in return; by an unforeseen accident you should be sud- denly taken from your lover, who, with despe- rate resolve, determines to find you, and con- vey you to your native home; after a series of adventures he discovers the place where you have been carried-would you still love him?" "Of course I would!" was the response. A"And not blame him for loving you?" "No!" "This is my case. The lady for whom my master is now going, I truly love, and loved her before she was brought to this country. We were betrothed. I followed, and am now upon the point of finding her; and perhaps I may soon have the happiness of folding her to my heart. You do not blame me, my friend, for loving her still? I think I know your good, heart too well for that." "Oh! forgive me!" said she; that's a dear -and I will do all I can for you; but you must still love me a little-only a little, as a dear friend." The kindness of the good creature quite   VOYAGE TO HYDROGEI.    167 overcame me; and without her asking me, I drew her face to the surface of the air in my room, and kissed her, telling her she must not mention the conversation. The next day my master returned, and I saw by the expression of his countenance that he had not succeeded. How disappointed I was I He had found the dwelling of Mr. Fiflim; but the editor of the opposition sheet, thinking, perhaps, that Mr. Fremung would stive to obtain possession of the Mollowog (3artha), had advised Mr. Fiflim to convey her into a distant part of the country; and when my master went to the house he had, gone, taking my dear Martha with him. I bore the griev- ous disappointment as well as I was able. Through the medium of his " official organ," Mr. Fremung had so greatly "puffed" me, that my next exhibition was as successful as the first; and I could easily perceive that he was in a fair way of becoming very wealthy through my means.   C1TAPTER VI. BAi-r the conclusion of the last concert, my master received from Bezing, the king of Hydrogenia, a large package, which proved to be a letter from the king, demanding that I should be brought before him, as his majesty, having heard so much of me, had determined to see me. Forthwith, Mr. Fremung had a large vase of the most elegant form made, and furnished in the richest style, with magni- ficent couches, chairs, and tables; and being too heavy to move by hand, he had it mounted upon large wheels, which was so arranged that it might be drawn by horses. After it was- completed, my master sent word to the king that he would be pleased to exhibit me before his majesty the next day; to which   VOYAGE TO HYExOGN  .   169 proposition the king assented. Accordingly the next morning; my vase, which was com- pletely covered with black cloth, that I might not be seen while passing through the streets, was drawn by fourteendvery large horses into the court-yard of the palace. The covering was not removed until we had arrived at the private door of his majesty's audience-room. The ceiling of the apartment being very low, they were forced to take the wheels from off the vase, that it might be placed in the apart- ment; but if the ceiling was low, it did not want length and breadth, being of such dimen- sions that, with its slender collumns which sup- ported the roof, it looked like a vast labyrinth. The only furniture was the immense chairs, each as large in circumference as a dozen hogsheads. The king was seated upon an enormous chair placed at the head of the room, and of such extreme obesity that he ap- peared much broader than tall. His head alone must have been nearly six feet in cir- cumference, although his face could not have been much moie than one foot in length. En- circling this enormous mass of animated flesh,   170      OULLIvE JOI. was a crown, composed, as my master told me, of pure diamonds, soldered and welded to- gether until they were united into solidity, and shining with the vividness of flame upon his forehead. He directed that my vase should be placed "n front of his seat; and then reaching down with his fat fist, he lifted me from the vase. "We will see whether you lie or not," said lie, as he held me suspended in the surround- ing hydrogen, and kept me from my native element until I was fairly black in the face; and my master, perceiving that I would soon die if kept in that position, besought his ma- jesty to place me back in the vase, which request he condescendingly granted. So ex- hausted was I, that I was forced to lay quietly upon the bottom of the vase. The king, perceiving that I was really very ill from the effects of his rough treatment, appeared sorry for what he had done, and apologized to my master, at the same time requesting him to be present at the court games that were to be held the next day. Pleased at this kingly invitation, my master     VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.   " promised to attend. After some farther con- versation, at the king's request we left the apartment. The vase was once more placed upon its wheels, the horses harnessed, and the black cloth covering placed closely over the vase, preventing me from looking. into the streets as we went along; but I found that at the mouth of the vase the covering was so fixed that by lifting it slightly, I could look forth. As we drove through the streets, an immense crowd followed us, cheering, las though they would split their throats. Anx- ious to look upon them, I accidently lifted the cloth too high, and 'to my extreme mortifi- cation it dropped off, leaving me exposed to the view of the thousands that were following us. Oh I what a yell arose as they saw me. M Ir. Fremung hastily whipped up the horses, and we went bouncing over the rough pave- ment with great speed, much to the detriment of my bones, which ached in every joint at the rough jolts which threw me from side to side of my vase. The rabble followed with all their speed, but' were unable to keep up with us; whereupon several mishevous fellows,   172,     GOLUVEM  JOL incensed, no doubt, by their disappointment, threw stones at the vase, which stones, unfor- tunately for us, went faster than we did, and struck the vase, breaking it so that the air being of much greater specific gravity than the hydrogen, so rapidly leaked out that I was forced to throw myself on my face, that I might obtain sufficient air for breathing. We arrived home just as the last portion of air was leaving the vase, and quickly leaving it, I was soon safe in mine own little parlor, where, overcome by the fatigue and excitement of the day, I threw myself upon a sofa, and was soon fast asleep. I had not slept long, however, when I was awakened by Berletta. "Mollowog, Mollowog," said she, "wake up, I have got some news for you." I requested her to go on. "I was talking to Franzlet, my companion, about you. The dear man loves you very much, and says that he would lay down his life for you. He said that while he was walk- ing upon the beach, he' saw : lady and gentle- man carry something very carefully, and place   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.   173 it in a keo. They did not see him; and as they were seating themselves in the keo, one of them lifted the covering off the object of which they appeared so careful; and Franzlet saw it. It was a glass vase, in which was a Mollowog, that far exceeded you in beauty. That part I don't believe. They hoisted the sail of the keo, and put off from land. He thinks they must have gone to Barbarum--an island about a day's sail from here, when the wind is fair. The dear fellow then proposed, of his own accord, I assure you, that you would order your workmen to make a very small vase-one in which you could breathe easily, and which would not be inconvenient to carry. It will be his business to procure a keo, and then we will steal you away, and convey you to the island. Does that suit you "  I eagerly assented, and told her to bring Franzlet up to me, as I wished to converse with him on the subject. She went to the door and called him; whereupon he entered the room, having evidently been standing near the door during my conversation with Berletta,   174      OCur LE JOI. and was obviously very much delighted at the opportunity of talking with me. "Are you certain," I questioned him, " that there will be no danger of our being followed and re-taken? If there is, I would prefer going alone, as I do not wish you to suffer for me." 4"There is, indeed, a slight probability of our being re-captured, should they learn of our escape before we had sufficient start; but if we were allowed, at the most, three hours time, we would be able to gain the boundary line in the ocean of the island Barbarum, which island was at enmity with Hydrogenia, and they would, herefore, protect us." Satisfied with this, I appointed the day after the court games as the day for starting on our expedition, asking him if there was sufficient time to purchase a keo, at the same time giv- ing him my purse and a large gold ring that I wore upon my finger. The purse was filled with gold pieces sufficiently large to attract the cupidity of the Hydrogenians, as they * were remarkably miserly. They left the room just in time to escape   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.   17 Mr. Fremung's observation, who entered one door as they disappeared through another. He had brought a dress in which he wished me to clothe myself. I did not like the ap- pearance of it, and somewhat demurred, when, with a harsh voice he bade me put them on, or he would punish me severely. I therefore obeyed him, and after dressing looked more like one of the monkeys that accompany the travelling organ-grinders than a reasonable being, so fantastically was I clothed. Even this trivial affair seemed to strengthen my purpose of deserting him, and quenched all qualms of conscience I might have had on the subject. I did think it was wrong for me to bribe his servants to be false to him, as I always considered him the preserver of my life; but I discovered that he merely saved my life to farther his own selfish end^;and, that had I not been differently formed and en- dowed than other Mollowogs he had captured, he would have thrown me aside to die without compunction.  After I had dressed, he ordered me into my smaller vase, and directed the servants to bear   17G      GULLivjM. JOI. me down to supper. I was accordingly carried ' down stairs by my two friends, who looked with no pleasant countenances at my novel costume. The table was crowded with guests, invited, I thought, for the purpose of seeing me; and as I did not wish to be made a laughing-stock of, I descended into the stand- ard of the vase, which, being made of an opaque substance, prevented my being seen. My master roared out at the top of his gruff voice- "Come back, sirrah." As I did not instantly obey him, he thrust lhis hand far down into the standard, and drew me forth by the collar of my fine coat, which, in my struggles to free myself, I tore off. Per- ceiving the accident, he roughly buffetted me on the side of my head until I could scarcely stand. How I hated him then! Poor Franz- let and Berletta were standing in the corner of the room weeping to see me misused, which, my master perceiving, sternly ordered them to leave the room. The company seemed highly amused at the grimaces I was forced to make by the severity of the blows. He compelled   VOYAGE TO HYI)OGENm.    ITT me to sit down to my table, and then forced me to drink large quantities of water. To show his guests that I could do so with im- punity, while, when they drank it, it flew to their brain, causing them to act like madmen. I have since thought that my master had drank more water than he should, which may account for his behavior to me that evening. I was forced to remain on the table until the night was nearly spent; and both the enter- tainer and his guests were lying upon the chairs and floor in a drunken stupor, caused by the large amount of water that they had drank. My friend, Berletta, however, convey- ed me back to my apartment, where, throw- ing myself upon the. bed, I fairly wept with vexation until sleep released me from my thoughts. The next morning I was awakened by my master, who looked so forlorn and miserable that I scarcely knew him. His head appeared much swollen, and his blood-shot eyes stood out until they looked twice their original size; however, after bathing his head freely in pure cold air, he looked much better; and ate 12   178      GtULLIVER JOI. breakfast he took a small glass of water, which seemed to refresh him wonderfully. He then dressed himself in his best, so far recovering his original appearance that none would have suspected'that he had spent the night in dis- sipation. My vase having been quite spoiled on our last visit to the palace, he had gone to the expense of having another made, with a covering of such construction, that it was im- possible for it to drop off. My coat being torn, Berletta's needle was put into operation, and soon made it as gay as ever. Entering my new vase, which was mounted upon an elegant car, drawn by twenty-four white horses,.who swiftly conveyed me to the king's court-yard, we were followed by an immense crowd of people, that continued to pursue us, screaming at the top of their voices until we had arrived at the gates of the court- yard, where we were admitted. The covering of my vase was removed, and such a sight I never saw before. Standing at the north side of the large enclosure were -the king's body- guard, each man over twenty raits in circum- ference (about thirty-five feet), and three ladios   VOYAGOE T  HYDOG.     17 in height (six feet). They were clothed in coats made of gold thread, so woven that it resembled the metal itself. Huge silver epau- lets glistened on their shoulders. Their panta- loons were made of black, shining leather; but the most singular part of their costume were their boots, which turned up at the toe several inches, ending at the point with a sharp instru- ment resembling a scythe, which extended up- ward until it was on a level with their large metallic caps. The sharp edge was outward, making it a terrible weapon when used by those accustomed to use it. Besides this wea- pon, they were armed with long spears and broad swords, which flashed in the brilliant light of the sun like pure silver. The king was seated upon a high throne that commanded a fine view of the whole enclo- sure. Around him stood his officers, who were clothed in plain, white garments, for the pur- pose, I thought, of forming a contrast between his own rich dress and their simple garb-the worthy monarch glittering like an immense gold fish, his dress being completely studded with small diamonds that, catching the rays of   180      GULLUVE JOI. the sun, sent the reflection back augmented an hundred-fold. He was the centre of all eyes. The sports began. Upon a stage directly in front of the throne, and raised some height from the ground, two men, whose muscular powers had been brought to the utmost per- fection by excessive exercise, stripped them. selves for the purpose; and then commenced battering each other with their huge fists until the blood flowed in streams, and did not cease this interesting amusement until one had fallen to the ground insensible. The victor was re- warded by allowing him to kiss his monarch's hand, which he did with so much unction that the report could be heard at all parts of the court-yard. Then followed the game of bug- fighting. The bugs used in this sport were very large, somewhat resembling our over- grown mud-turtles. Their Hydrogenian name was broluck. One of them had a silver cross upon his back, thus giving him the name of "Silver Back." So great was the interest in this sport, that the whole nation was divided into two great parties-the party siding with the plain insect styling themselves the old   VOYAGOE TO HDBRNwIA.    -181 TroluGrks," and the opposite party the "Sil- ver Backs." Upon this occasion, the silver- back bug was triumphant; and such a shout arose from its partisans, that mine ears were almost deafened. The old Trodzcks becoming exasperated at the defeat of their favorite in- sect, broke forth in a universal groan, and,i without further ado, attacked the other party with the greatest fierceness. The battle be- came general, and the king gave orders that his guard should separate them, which they succeeded in doing after maiming several of the, combatants with their long toe knives, using them with all the dexterity with which a game-cock uses his spurs. The king, angry at the gross violation of the laws in his very presence, gave orders that the sports should cease, and in very ill-humor adjourned to din- ner without asking my master to accompany him. My master, in ill-temper with himself and every one else, immediately had me con- veyed home. On my way thither, I could not help thinking that I was placed among a nation of fools-; and the vainest fools I ever saw; for it was their boast that they had the   182      GULIVER JoI. fattest men, the homliest females, and the most celebrated philosophers (Maldi Fremung, for instance). In fact, there was nothing but in what they exceeded all others; but despite all I had heard, I somewhat doubted. That evening I performed to as crowded a house as usual. This made Fremung a little better natured. *t     THE next morning I held a long conference with Franzlet, who had succeeded in obtaining a keo. It had been arranged between him and Berletta, that they should, as soon as it was dark, and all were asleep, convey me in a covered wagon to the eo, which he had con- cealed in a convenient place. He had pur- chased an opaque vase, in which he could easily carry me to the place of embarkation. The important time arrived. Punctual as the clock, my friends were on hand with the vase, or rather box; for it was formed of wood, and much resembled a coffin, only somewhat deeper. I quickly ensconced myself in it, and lifting it by the handles placed at either ex- tremity, without difficulty or detection I was   184      GULLrvY  JOL. conveyed to the spot where the heo was con- cealed. The moon shone with most provoking brightness, revealing to my astonished gaze the immense surface of the air, which, dis- turbed by an Hydrogenic breeze, gently laved the beach with a soft, murmuring sound. The keo, or boat, was composed of a substance re- sembling oiled silk, but formed in the shape of our boats. The sides being hollow, were filled with hydrogen; and hydrogen was con- fined in boxes placed under the seats. The box in which I was contained, was placed upon the seats; and after my two com- panions had seated themselves, the boat settled near to its edge, so that a very slight move- merit would have been sufficient to overturn it. But; as there was but little breezeS,we were not afraid. Franzlet hoisted an enormous silken sail, and the breeze being favorable, our gallant little bark yielded to its influence, and was soon scudding -over the airy ocean with the utmost velocity. All night we thus sailed before the breeze in safety; but when morning dawned, to our great terror we saw a large sail looming up some distance behind us; and as the sur-   VOYAGE  YD  OGENI .    18 face of the air was perfectly level, we were enabled to see the hull of the pursuing vessel, which it is impossible for persons sailing upon our ocean to do, as the earth is round; there- fore the top sails are first seen, and, finally, as the vessel approaches nearer, the hull. Franzlet stood up in the stern of our vessel. "Fremung is there! We are pursued," said he, and immediately altered the course of our vessel; but it did no good, for the other vessel did the same. Our boat being loaded down with my heavy box, did not sail as rapidly as it otherwise would; and as the larger size of the pursuing vessel gave her the advantage, she was fast overtaking us. I therefore pro- posed that I should jump overboard, and take hold of the rudder of our vessel, and then rid the boat of the cumbrous box. They at first objected, but I over-ruled, and sprang over. To my great surprise, I discovered that I was borne upon the surface of the air, and was able to swim through it with as much ease as a fish can through his native element. This I can ac- count for only by my being out of the power of the earth's attraction. I could swim much faster   186      GULLIVE  JOI. than the vessel. I therefore swam to the bows, and requested Franzlet to throw me a rope, which he did. Making a loop I placed it over my shoulders, and was enabled to draw the boat after me, with much greater velocity than it had before. But still our pursuers gained upon us, and I was really fearful that we would be overtaken, when, as though sent for our deliverance, we discovered another vessel approaching us in an opposite direction, but so very far distant that it looked like a speck upon the broad expanse of air before us. I renewed my exertions, and had the satisfaction that, at least, the vessel chasing us, did not gain more upon us. The strange vessel, had now approached so near that Franzlet could dis- tinguish to what nation it belonged, being, as he said, a Barbarum ship. Having neared them  sufficiently, Franlet hailed them, and requested permission to sail under their protection, saying, that after our arrival at the island, he would explain the reason for his request, which, if they did not deem sufficient, they might return us to the HBydrogenians. This appeared satisfactory, for   VOYAGE TO aDaoOG  A.    18 they allowed us to sail beside their vessel, and as they were bound for Barbarum, having come out of their course only to see what caused the pursuit, thus proving the fact that nothing must be done upon the whole. Oceanic air without their interference. When the Barbarum vessel turned about, and it was plainly to be perceived that we were under their protection, the pursuing vessel tacked, and was soon lost in the distance, whereupon FranJet arose, and waiving his cap, gave three genuine Hydrogenian cheers, and said that he presumed that Fremung would spread the report of an outrage com- mitted upon the air, by the Barbarums against the Hydrogenians. Meanwhile, I was snugly ensconced upon the rudder of our craft, enjoying the rapid motion, and trying to pierce the seemingly unmeasura- ble space beneath me, but nothing was visible. Suddenly, however, a large rock hove in sight, far, far below, and gradually came nearer the surface, until I thought it would be in closer proximity to the bottom of the boat than convenient. I therefore said to Franzlet, that   188      UUwavrE Jo., I had better swim to the shore and conceal myself, until the time when he should have procured a vase, in which he could convey me to the great city of Barbarum. He stooped over the side of the keo, and suddenly losing his balance, fell overboard, and had it not been for my timely assistance, would certainly have perished; but I upheld him, with consid- erable difficulty, for he weighed nearly a ton, and after a great amount of -struggling, helped him in the boat, where he sat thoroughly drenched with air, his huge eyes sticking far out from their sockets, and the air trickling down his fat sides in small globules. He pointed out to me a small air-creek, that made its way into the ocean, and told me to conceal myself in its mouth, saying that he would return for me as soon as he could procure a vase. Leaving my seat upon the rudder, I sank through the air to the rocky bottom, and quickly wended my way towards the small creek, which was easily discernible, looking like a large chasm in the rock. Climbing up the steep ascent until I had nearly reached the surface of the air, I impatiently awaited      VOYAGE TO HYDEOGENIA.   189 Franzlet's arrival. I had not waited long, before I heard a step among the weeds that were growing thickly upon the banks over my head, and his familiar voice, calling: "I Mollowog I Mollowog I where are you " "Here I am," I answered, as I walked up towards him as far as I was able. He carried upon his shoulder a beautiful globe- shaped vase, so made that he could carry it with ease. Holding my breath, I stepped from the air, and instantly plunged into the vase, which Franzlet had filled with pure, fresh air from the stream. Lifting the vase upon his massive shoulders, he carried me towards our place of refuge, which was a small inn, where we found good Berletta impatiently awaiting our arrival in a private apartment, which she had engaged for my benefit. Supper was soon spread, and having a table placed within my vase, and some of the good things being placed upon it, I soon made way with my share of it. After supper the-landlady entered the room, to clear off the remains. She formed so strong a contrast to the thin form of Berletta, that I   190      GUUUlIfV  JOL. could scarcely keep my eyes from her, which made the latter quite angry; but I still liked the appearance of the woman, so good-natured did she look, while Berletta's vinegar aspect was almost a sufficient guarantee that she was a vixen. But how deceitful are appearances. This woman was destined to be a source of great annoyance to us, for so curious was she that frequently, when honest Franzlet opened the door of our apartment, that worthy dame would fall headlong into the room, having apparently been listening at the keyhole. Arising, she would make an obeisance, saying: "Did you call for anything '" which invariably aroused Berletta's wrath, and she would call down such a fierce volley of invectives upon the unfortunate intruder's head, that she would retire in the greatest confusion. However, the curiosity of the woman was of some benefit, for she never failed to bring up our meals at the proper time, and as an excuse to make another visit to our apartment, each morning would bring up the news-sheets of the day for my perusal. In the meantime, Franzlet had, at my request, obtained from the government   VOYAGE TO HYDBOGENI.    191 of Barbarum a grant that they would protect me from injury, and from being re-taken by the Hydrogenians. The officials that gave him this grant, were very anxious to see me; but Franzlet told them that I was quite ill from the effects of fatigue and fear, and they must, therefore, postpone seeing me until I appeared before the public, which I certainly would do in a few days. This was sufficient, and they pressed the matter no farther.   CHAPTER VII. Is one of the news-sheets that our landlady had brought up for my perusal, I saw an advertisement that immediately attracted my attention. It announced that a wonderful Mollowog, the same that had attracted so much attention in Hydrogenia, would be exhibited during the following week. It could not mean me, for my true friends, Franzlet and Berletta, would not have inserted such an advertisement without consulting me. Upon looking farther down, I saw at the close of the announcement, the name-Mr. Fiflim, agent-- thus quelling all doubts whether it was Martha or not. I called Franzlet and read the advertisement to him, telling him I wished him to call upon   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.    193 Mr. Fiflim, and tell him that I was in the country, and that I wished to see him. Ile acceded to my request, and hastened on his way towards Mr. Fiflim's house, and was successful; for he soon returned, bringing with. him that gentleman, and introduced him into my apartment. "I have," said I, "sent for you for the purpose of making a proposition for your consideration. The person you have in your charge is very dear to me, and, in fact, it was for her rescue that I came to Hydrogenia. My proposition is this:-that you allow me to exhibit with her for the space of thirty days, the proceeds of which exhibition shall be yours, providing, that at the conclusion of the thirty days, you suffer us to do our own will. While in Hydrogenia, I heard a great deal of your kindness of heart, which induces me to believe that you will assent to the proposition." "I am  astonished," he answered, " that a being like you should dare to banter words with me on such a subject. In the first place, you are not a human being; and although you 13   194      GULLIVER JOI. possess the wonderful art of speaking our lan- guage, you are considered, in this country as well as in Hydrogenia, as a mere M.}ollowog, and, therefore, not subject to the laws of the land. I am almost tempted to take you from your protectors, that stole you from your mas- ters. Aye! and I will immediately go and lay my claims to you before the government, and I know they will support me." "Not too fast, my good friend," said I; "you will find to your cost that I am endow- ed with as much, if not more, intellectual powers than yourself, poor miserable scoundrel that you are! My friends and protectors, Franziet and Berletta, have a written certi- ficate from government declaring that it will protect me; and if you do not consent to the arrangement I proposed, I will give exhibi- tions upon my own account, assisted by my two friends, and I think that I will succeed better than you with your .Mollowog; for I can speak, and will prove that Iam the origi- nal .ollowog that caused so much excitement in Hydrogenia. Furthermore, I will request my friends to lay my claims upon your Mollo-   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.    195 wog before the government of this country; and I think I have proof sufficient to convince them of the priority of the claim to yours. But we will not quarrel. The thirty exhibi- tions which I will give for you, will make you the wealthiest man in Hydrogenia. I hope, for our mutual benefit, you will re-consider my proposition, and consent to it." This appeared to have the desired effect; for he consented. But from an expression of of sly cunning that passed over his counte- nance, I saw that he meant mischief. I there- fore sent for a proper person, and had a con- tract drawn up, according to the laws of the country, which, at my request he signed, and Franzlet and Berletta also signed the docu- ment on my part, the signing being duly wit- nessed by our landlady, who, not being able to write her name, made her mark. Thus caught, he, upon discovering that the contract specified that thirty. exhibitions should be given, but made no mention. as to the time of the exhibi- tions, determined that but two concerts should be given each week. 1 did not demur, being so anxious to see Martha. Without farther   196      GULLIVER JOI. hesitation, I ordered that my vase should in- stantly be placed in a carriage, and conveyed to Mr. Fiflim's, which order was immediately obeyed, and, in a few moments, I was in the same house that contained my much-loved Martha. Before conducting me to her, Fiflim said that he had gone to great expense in fitting up a complete set of chambers for Martha's use, and he thought it but fair that I should stay one week beyond the time contracted for. So eager was I to see Martha, that, without fore- thought, I assented. He quickly obtained pen, ink, and paper, and desired me to write a certi- ficate to that effect; which I did. He then conveyed me into an adjoining apartment. The room was dark. My vase was lifted high from the floor, and then placed in a large cham- ber filled with air. I leaped from my vase, and strove to find mode of egress. While fumbling around the room, a door suddenly opened, and a blaze of light was admitted, and there stood my Martha, looking with bewil- dered gaze upon me. No wonder she did not recognize me; for having neither- razors nor   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.    197 scissors, my beard hung in long locks over my breast, while my long hair resembled an In- --dian's. I spoke; she knew my voice, and in- stantly springing forward was clasped to my bosom. She conducted me from the dark chamber into her principal parlor. Fiflim had spoken the truth; for he had spared no expense in fitting up as beautiful a residence for Martha as he could devise. It was elegantly furnished, and was almost as comfortable as our home in Kailoo; for Martha had arranged; the furniture as near as possible in the same manner as in the parlor at home. Seating myself by her side upon a sofa, I gave her a brief sketch of my adventures, and she told hers in return. While wandering in the mountains in search of the berries, she espied what she thought to be a beautiful bunch, and determined to pluck them, and bring them home for me; but no sooner had she touched them, than her arm was closely encircled with a ring, and she was rapidly drawn up into the air. Having lost all consciousness in her rapid ascent, she did not recover until she found herself in a large   198      GULLVEI JOI. glass vase, placed in a meanly-furnished apart- ment, and surrounded by a crowd of strange- looking beings, who were gazing at her as though she was a great prodigy. She was kept in the vase for a long time, placed upon the centre table in the parlor, and serving, as she supposed, as an ornament, in the same manner that gold fish are kept in our own country. She managed, however, to learn the language, but did not disclose to them that she had acquired it. She had not been removed from the vase, her master having the air in her vase changed regularly, much to her surprise, as she did not know that she would be unable to breath the atmosphere in which they lived. Having discovered that she could sew, her mistress compelled her to make fancy articles, which she sold at a great profit. One day, her master conveyed her on a long journey, plac- ing her in a new vase, which was far superior to the last. They arrived at a great city, where she was visited by a great many per- sons, one of whom gave her the letter from me. She answered it in high hopes that we would , .loon meet; but she was doomed to a greater   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.    199 disappointment; for her master enclosed her in a dark box, and for a long time she saw nothing save the hand that extended her food through a small aperture. At last she was released from her dismal imprisonment, and placed in this beautiful little parlor. She con- tinued to hope that I would come to her release; but had she known the barriers that opposed my doing so, she would have de- spaired. I will not dwell much longer upon the events that occurred during my stay upon this island; but I cannot forbear saying, that al- though they evinced so much kindness for me, they are complete barbarians, still with a very lofty idea of their civilization, as they called it. This was their hobby, and their rulers cries out: "Civilize'! Civilize!" By this they meant to compel all nations above the air, that they could, to succumb to their laws; and so anxious were they, that they had large fleets upon the' air, that were used for no other purpose than to compel all nations that they visited, to adopt the laws of *   200      GULLIVER JOI. Barbarum. A few weeks before my arrival, they had despatched a great fleet of war ves- sels to a thickly-populated country that had hitherto refused to obey their laws. The peo- ple of the country against whom this warlike force was despatched were inoffensive, but far in advance of the Barbarums in the arts and sciences. The fleet attacked this peaceful country, burned their villages, and killed their people-all for civilization's sake. I shall say nothing farther upon the customs of this people, as I had as little to do with them as possible; and although they treated me with kindness, I disliked them heartily. The time for which I had engagad myself to Fiflirn passed slowly away; and having given Fiflim a hint that I was about to leave, he seemed glad of it; for the people, having gratified their curiosity, no longer flocked in such great crowds to see me. Fiflim, however, had become very wealthy, and loaded us with costly presents, in token, I presume, of his regard for us., Franzlet and Berletta had been our constant attendants dur-   ing our stay at Barbarum. I requested Franz- '   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.    201 let to get ready his keo, as we were about to leave this country. Berletta employed herself by packing up our various articles; and having bade Fiflim farewell, who presented us - with two beautiful vases for our accomodation, and kindly gave his coach to convey us to the landing, we started, accompanied by a crowd of the inhabitants, who thronged the streets, cheering us as we passed. Franzlet and Ber- letta were seated upon the front seat of the carriage, weeping as though their hearts would break. Martha had presented Berletta with a sufficient sum of money to render her comfort- able for life; and I had done the same for Franzlet, also giving him my watch, which he held in high estimation, thinking it a god, until I undeceived him. Arriving safely at the landing, we embarked in a vessel--the same in which we had escaped from Hydro- genia. Franzlet hoisted the large sail, and amid the cheers of thousands of spectators that had gathered on the landing to witness our embarkation, we. swiftly rode over the air, towards 8Hydrogenia, as I wished to descend to   202      GULLIVER JOI. Iailoo at as near as possible the same spot from whence we were taken. I had previously requested Franzlet to pro- cure the strongest rope that he could find, which he had done.  Franzlet knowing the place where his master had captured me, I directed him to steer for it, and having a fair breeze, we rapidly progressed towards it. Martha was delighted and much surprised when I told her that we were sailing on the air; and looking over the sides of the vessel, vainly tried to pierce- through the space be- neath us, and see her home. Arriving at the spot from whence we were to descend, Franzlet lowered the sail, and the vessel stayed her progress; then taking his line, affixed a heavy weight at one extremity, and let it fall into the air. It descended with great velocity, the weight soon disappearing  from our sight. The rope had small pieces of wood affixed transversely at regular inter- vals, for the purpose of aiding in the descent, being so prepared bythe forethought of good Franilet.  The rope slacked, proving that it   VOYAGE TO- HYDROGENIA.   203 had reached the bottom of the air. I kissed Berletta good-bye, and after shaking Franzlet by the hand, the tears rolling from his eyes as he blubbered good-bye, then hastily sprang into the air. Berletta carefully lowered Martha down to me, and with many a pang at parting from the good creatures that had so long and faithfilly served us, I placed Martha so that she rested upon my left arm, and with the other gradually commenced the descent, the transverse sticks aiding me much. After hav- ing descended nearly half the distance, as near as I could judge, quite exhausted I stay- ed my progress; looking upward, I could barely perceive the keo which contained Franz- let and Berletta, and downward a large, almost indefinable bluish plain, which I thought must be Kailoo. I again commenced the descent, and after long and arduous labor, succeeded in reaching the ground, discovering, to my great satisfaction, that it was the mountain from whence we had been taken. Martha, from excess of joy at our safety, fainted, and lifting her in my arms, I hastened down the familiar path, towards: the city of ,    204      GULLI VIER JOI. Kailoo. The sun was about midway in the heavens when I started; but before I arrived at the bottom of the mountain, it suddenly went down, almost bewildering me. I 'breath- ed short and thick, for I could not keep from imagining that I was in Hydrogenia. I soon reached the house of my friend, Colorondo, unto whom I was the bearer of such joyful tidings. Opening the door, I en- tered. Cracko, the carlet, was, as usual, fast asleep behind the door. I did not disturb him, but passed him, and entered the parlor, de- positing my precious burden upon the sofa. I instantly departed in search of Mrs. Brown, whom I found in the back room, holding in her hand a small box filled with jewels, that formerly belonged to Martha. Her tears fell fast and thick, falling upon and tarnishing the lustre of the contents of the box. "Madam," said I, softly. She looked up, startled by the familiar sound of my voice, but did not'recognize me. "What is your wish 2.' said she, in the Kailoo language, the same in which I had ad- dressed her. "Colorondo is in his office."   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.    205 "Do you not know me?"I inquired in Eng- lish. "Gulliver!" she cried. "'Is Martha safe? I see she is. Oh! my God, I thank tlee!" And she sank upon her knees and offered a fervent prayer of thanksgiving for the resto- ration of her daughter. "Where is she?" she continued; "I wish to see her now--yes, now-do not stop me." I saw that in her present state of mind, it would not be proper or safe for her to enter the room, and therefore said: "Mrs. Brown you must calml yourself; your daughter lies exhausted upon the sofa, and you must prepare proper restoratives for her." This had the desired effect. She ilmmedi- ately arose and calmly prepared such refresh- ments as would be proper for her daughter's use, and then accompanied me into the parlor, where Martha still remained in a state of in- sensibility. With a mother's kind hand, Mrs. Brown bathed the forehead of the fainting girl. She revived: opening her eyes, she re- cognized her mother. A .scream of joy issued from her lips, and she pressed her to her   206     GULIVER JOI. bosom. At that moment Colorondo entered the room, and completed this touching picture. Perceiving his daughter lying upon the sofa, he knelt beside her, and taking her tiny hand within his own, he kissed and re-kissed it with fatherly affection-the big tears welling from his eyes, and running down his cheeks in rapid succession. The joy was too great. Tears started to myin eyes, and I hastened into the other parlor to conceal my emotion. It was a happy re-union for all. Even Cracko, who had awakened from his nap, joined in it; for he entered the apartment where I was, and commenced dancing around me, finally throw- ing himself at my feet, clasped my knees, and called me a god, creating so much noise, that Colorondo, hearing it, entered the room. "Forgive me, my boy," said he, " if I did not first extend my congratulations to you, the preserver of my daughter; but my daughter was all I saw. I cannot express my thanks to you; but if you will take payment for your services, by accepting her hand in marriage, she is yours." I will not describe the meeting between   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.    20T Mrs. Brown and myself; but she reiterated her husband's promise, and I was truly happy. My first inquiry, after having given Colo- rondo a sketch of our adventures, was con- cerning the balloon; for I was anxious about its safety, as I intended it should convey us to earth. He conducted me to the storehouse, where he had placed it. I found that it was but little injured, and after taking sufficient refreshment and rest, commenced repairing it, as I wished to start for earth as soon as possi- ble. The machinery for propelling it was in excellent condition, and there were but few rents in the silk, which were easily remedied. I then, aided by Colorondo, manufactured some hydrogen gas, with which to fill the balloon. Our manner of making this gas was very sim- ple; and as some of my young readers may wish to know how we made it, I will describe the process. We first took an iron tube, shaped some- what like a gun-barrel, but bent into a con- venient form, and filled*it with iron filings. This tube we placed in an iron furnace, so arranged that the coals completely covered it,   208      GULLIVER JOI. heating it to an almost white heat. At one extremity of the tube we affixed a flexible tube, one end of which was to be inserted in the balloon; at the other extremity was another tube, which connected it with a large vessel nearly full of water. This vessel was placed over another furnace filled with live coals. The steam arising from the boiling water was thus forced through the tube containing the iron filings, where it was converted into hydro- gen, and from thence into the balloon, which we had suspended from the ceiling of the lofty garret, where we operated. The reason why the steam, which is water in vapor, gives up its hydrogen, is this. You must first know, however, that water is com- posed of two gases, called oxygen and hydro- gen-the former in the greater abundance. The oxygen contained in the water, when pass- ing through the red hot tube containing the iron filings, is attracted by the iron filings, which becomes oxygenated or united with it, thus leaving the hydrogen free, which escapes through the farther extremity of the tube. Hydrogen being the lightest body known, is   VOYAGE TO HDROOMENI.    909 therefore used for the purpose of filling bal- loons. . There are many methods of disuniting it from water; but as we had no utensils than those 1 have described, we were compelled to adopt this. We were employed several days (earth time) in filling the, balloon, as the iron filings in the tube had to be changed frequently; for as they became oxygenated, they were incapable of further action. I did not visit the king, as I did not wish him to know of my return. Colorondo in- formed me that Honnolumeek, my former enemy, had violated the law, by returning to the country, and had been hung a short time previous to my arrival. I was sorry for this, for Honnolumeek had but one fault, and that was ambition; but to provide for this, he had committed a crime, and therefore his doom was a just one. We made secret preparations to leave the country, not wishing to ask per- mission of the king, as he might refuse, and devise means to prevent our doing so. Colorondo had amassed great wealth in the service of the king. His property consisted "   210      GULLIVER JOI. principally of precious stones, which was for- tunate, as we could arrange Wit in convenient form to carry. On a dark night, a large cloud concealing the earth, preventing its rays from striking the planet, we all went up into the garret where Colorondo and myself had pre- pared the balloon. We had made a trap-door in the roof, which opened with a spring. Martha and her mother seated themselves one upon the seat beside Colorondo, the other by my side. The seats I had so arranged that there would be no danger of falling when we should reach the spot where the earth's attrac- tion commenced, when we should have to per- form a grand summerset, in the same manner that I did on my last voyage from earth to 'Nailoo. The pistons were in complete work- ing order. I gave Colorondo the signal. He spa:g into the car, and touched the spring of the trap-door, which immediately flew open. I followed him into the car, and cutting the cord that held us, we shot upward, and fast proceeded toward our own world. Aided by Colorondo, I worked the pistons rapidly, and performed the dreaded summerset in safety. I     bo   VOYAGE TO HYDROGENIA.   2" Arriving soon in sight of the earth, we gradu- ally descended, and landed in safety upon the borders of a beautiful lake; and thus ended my second voyage. END OF VOYAGE THE SECOND.     VOYAGE THE THIRD. TO EJARIO.    VOYAGE TO EJARIO. CHAPTER I. OUR balloon had landed upon a beautiful little lake, located in the northern part of the State of New York. The inhabitants of a neighboring village having witnessed our de- scent, came to our assistance, and through their kindness we were enabled to obtain a conveyance to the city of Syracuse, from whence we went to Albany, where Colorondo purchased a handsome villa, situated on the Hudson River, from a gentleman desirous of selling, as he was about visiting Europe. The gentleman, pleased with the ready money which Colorondo had paid him for the villa,   216      GULULEo  JOI. accompanied us to it. It was located but a short distance down the river from Albany, and after a short ride in the steamboat, we arrived at the neat stone wharf that was built upon the banks of the river, directly in front of the beautiful mansion, which was situated some distance back from the wharf, upon a high hill, which was beautifully cut in grass- covered terraces. Martha and her mother were charmed with its appearance, and Colorondo and myself were of course equally pleased, as whatever gave them pleasure, added to our happiness. The gentleman from whom Colorondo had purchased the villa, kindly conducted us over the premises, pointing out its beauties, and, at Colorondo's request, consented to send us all the furniture we needed, from New York, as he was about to visit that city immediately, Colorondo having furnished him with sufficient money for that purpose. At last we had our mansion superbly furnished, for the gentleman had been as good as his word, having sent us the handsomest that he could purchase. And now that nothing   VOYAGE TO EJBIO.     217 could prevent, it was determined that Martha and myself should be united. I will not describe the sensations of joy that filled my heart, -when Colorondo made the proposal, to which I instantly assented, and without osten- tatious display, and in presence only of our immediate family, we were married. After our marriage, we lived quietly for several years. Everything that we could wish was ours, but still I longed for a life of adventure. Knowing that I should not leave my wife, I gave orders that a yacht should be built, so that when I found my fever for travelling coming on me, I could take a cruise upon the river. Roderick, my wife's uncle, the former old man of the rock, had been furnished, by the ingenuity of an able artist, with a pair of cork legs, which he used with great dexterity, and when he had hs long hair cut short, and his immense whiskers shaven off, he was much bettered in his outward appearance, but the fire of adventure was still burning within his veins, and he worked with great alacrity to put the yacht in sailing condition, promising fine times when it was   218      GULLIVER JOL completed. It did not take him long before it was completed, and then we did have fine times. She was the sweetest little craft- on the Hudson, and the "Martha Joi" had the repu- tation of being the finest modelled and swiftest yacht upon the river. I determined to try her sailing powers upon the ocean. Martha refused to go, and wished me not to go either, but I overruled her wishes. I requested Colo- rondo to accompany us, but he had enough of the sea, and refused. Roderick, however, was all anxiety for the trip. At my request, he obtained the services of three men, who had formerly been seamen. The day arrived for our departure, and fully equipped, and with a spanking breeze, we passed down the river, s6on arriving at New York, and then, after a short time, were bounding over the blue waves of the ocean. We were bound for New Orleans, as Roderick had some friends there he much wished to see. We had been upon the ocean about a week, when a very fierce gale arose. Being unac- customed to the motion of the vessel, which, being so small, rocked a great deal, I went   VOYAGE TO EJABIO.     219 below, dreadfully sea-sick, leaving the vessel in Roderick's charge. I had been in the cabin but a few moments, when I heard a loud, thumping sound on deck. Feeling somewhat alarmed, I rushed up. The vessel was lying over, almost upon her side, and before I had time to save myself, a large wave struck her, raising her so suddenly, that I was thrown far into the sea, and the yacht passed by me with lightning speed. I sank under the water, and then rising, struck out instinctively. My hand,struck a large spar, that seemed sent by providence for my preservation. It proved to be the mast of the yacht, which, when falling, made the tremendous crash that had caused me so much fear. The cook's galley was also entangled in the rigging, having been drawn from its fastenings when the shrouds were cut away. This was a god-send for me, for had it not been carried off with the mast, I should have certainly perished, but I knew there were several casks of fresh water in the galley, and therefore hastened to secure them. The gale had spent its wrath, and now the dark clouds were breaking away, allowing the   ,20   .   GULLVEK JOI. sun to shine clear and Iright upon the surface of the troubled waters. Without much difficulty I reached the galley, which was bobbing upon the water like a large box. I looked through a large hole in its side, and, to my extreme satisfaction, discovered a beaker of water, and a cask of sea-biscuit, the latter slightly damaged by the water. With some small pieces of cordage, which I cut from the rigging, I lashed my treasures se- curely to the mast, and having, through the aid of the galley and rigging, formed a com- fortable and safe seat, which I afterwards improved with the fragments of a large sail, I lashed myself in a recumbent position to the mast, and was soon fast asleep. I remained upon this mast several days, and although vessels frequently came within sight, I could not make them hear me. My biscuit held out much longer than the water, but that was soon gone, aed I thought that I must indeed perish.  How I longed for my balloon, that I might, through' its assistance, rise from this watery wasteland cleave my way through the kinder elements, but of what use were these   VOYAGE TO  AWO.     221 longings. Parched with thirst, I lay myself down upon the mast, in despair. Gradually I became insensible. How long H remained in this situation I know not, but was awakened by the confused murmur, as though of many voices, in my ears. I turned around, opened my eyes, and saw that I was upon land. The mast was nowhere to be seen. Raising myself upon my elbow, I saw a company of the inhabitants of the country in which I then was, who, upon seeing me revive, had retired some distance from me. I beckoned them to come nearer, and pointing to my cracked lips, whispered, for I could not speak, "water." I noticed that they wore long beards, but none of them had hair upon their heads, and that some of them carried children in their arms. One of the company, seeming to understand my signal, approached, anu poured some deli- cious cold water into my mouth. The draught so revived me, that I arose and walked towards them, whereupon they all turned upon their heels, and scampered off with great swiftness, and I soon lost sight of them. Follwing upon their footsteps with all the speed I was capable   22&      GOULLaV   JOI. of, I saw approaching me a large company, and as I neared them, I discovered that they were females. They were clothed in long silken dresses, with a train that extended far behind them. The majority of them bore long spears, in shape like a knitting-needle, while others, whom I supposed to be officers, flour- ished long darning-needles, using them as swords. The commandress, whom I afterwards discovered to be the queen, was a tall woman, clothed in a most magnificent robe of crimson velvet, the train of which far exceeded that of her followers, in length. She was mounted upon a beautiful horse, the train of her dress trailing upon the ground behind him. She spurred up her charger to me, and, to my surprise, she spoke in English: "( Art thou mnan or woman?" "Man," I answered. "So I might have known," returned she, "from  your feeble aspect; and although your head is crowned with hair, and the beard upon your chin is not so long as the rest of your sex, still, you will betray yourself under all circum- stances."   VOYAGE TO EJARIO.    223 "Methinks," paid I, angry at her speaking so contemptuously of my sex, " that although you bear the form of a woman, and that same form finely decked with beautiful, clothes, withal, still, you bear a very unmannerly tongue of your own, and if I were your husband, I would teach you to treat strangers with more hospitality." "Ha! ha! ha!" laughed she, "a mighty proud-spoken man-almost equal to my son Tommo. Take him, Amandine, and place him upon a horse, and we shall see whether his courage is equal to his fiery speech." At this command, a large and very spirited steed was led up to me. When a boy, it was my ambition to mount all the unbroken colts in the neighborhood, and well did my experience serve me now. Without more ado, I sprang upon the horse, which was unsaddled. The restive animal strove in every possible manner to dislodge me from my seat, but he was unable to do so. The queen was aston- ished at my skill. "He must be half woman," muttered she,   224      GoULVER JOI. as I passed her at full speed; "his: beard is not very long." I rode the horse until he was completely conquered, and then springing from his back, I bowed before the queen. "My noble lady," said I, "forgive the quickness of my tongue when I first addressed you, but I come from a land where my sex rules, although they do say that woman leads man by the nose, in whatever country they be. However, madam, I humbly beg your pardon for the roughness of my speech, and pray you that you will provide refreshment for me, as I am nearly famished, after which I will relate my adventures." "Young man," she answered, "you have exhibited more courage and skill than I ever saw evinced by your sex before. I shall, therefore, take you under my protection, and provide for your wants."' Thus saying, she directed me to re-mount my horse, and then gave orders that all should proceed to the city.   CHAP PTER II. WE proceeded over a wide road, on the sides of which were men busily engaged in breaking stone for its repair. Arriving at the city, the walls of which were made of linen cloth tightly fastened over wooden frames, we entered its principal street, which was quite wide, and covered with a beautiful carpet. The houses of the wealthy portion of the citizens, were made of a material resembling velvet, but much thicker. They were of different colors, as suited the taste or means of the owner. This velvet, I suppose, was supported by a wooden frame. The houses of the middling classes were -composed of white linen, supported in the same manner, while the very poor, con- tented themselves with small wooden domicils.   226      GULLIVER JOI. The palace to which I was conducted was made of white satin, richly embroidered, and stretched upon golden frames. The canopy, or roof, was supported by long rows of golden pillars, the centre being upheld by a golden rod, much longer than the pillars, thus raising the canopy to a great height above them, giving the palace the appearance of a huge tent. The roof was ornamented with large gilded figures of dragons, and surmounting the golden pole that protruded itself some distance above the canopy, was a golden dragon, serving the purpose of a weathercock. The windows, for the purpose of admitting light, were made of very fine lace. Ascending the golden stair- way that led into the palace, I was conducted into a sumptuously furnished room, in which I saw a young man, to whom the queen intro- duced me, as her son Tommo. At that moment, a gentleman entered, whose white bald pate glistened like silver; his beard was very long, and covered with ornaments; his hands delicately small, and each finger encir- cled with sparkling rings. "Welcome home, my lady," said he, in a   VOYAOE TO EJARIO.    227 soft, sweet tone, to the queen; "welcome home. I began to be quite anxious concerning your safety. You must not leave me alone so long again. But who is this young gentleman l" I was presented to him. He spoke but a few words with me; then putting his arm around his wife's waist, conducted her from the room, and I was left alone with the prince. He appeared sad and thoughtful. "Sir," said I, "if you will permit a stranger to inquire, why are you so sad 8?" "Sad," he answered. "I have good cause to be sad. But I cannot tell you now." The queen entered the room, and put a stop to the conversation. "What is your name?" she inquired. "Gulliver Joi." "Henceforth," she' continued, "your name shall be Gulliver the Courageous, and will be entitled to wear this badge." She gave me a badge of silver, in the shape of a pair of breeches, or pantaloons. It was elegantly chased, and bore the motto, "J hen st/Ps !ww "UpoAl the under side of the   228      GULL1VEK JOIL badge was engraved the figure of a dragon- shaped monster, the eyes made of two large emeralds. "You have been honored," said she, "far more than any of my male subjects have been hitherto. At the eleventh hour I wish you to visit the council-room, where you shall be initi- ated into the mysteries of the Dragonites. Farewell." Thus saying, she left the apartment. "I am glad," said the prince, " that you ac- cepted the badge, for you will be able, if you choose, to help me exceedingly through its means. Can I trust you?" "Prince," said I, " you can trust me,'even with your life." "This is more than life," he answered; "and you are the only one of my sex that I ever saw that possessed the slightest spark of courage. I have not time now to give you a proper idea of the service I wish you to render for me; but to-morrow morning, if you are wil- ling, we will meet, and I will relate to you the whole. It is now time for you to go to the   VOYAGE TO EJARIO.     229 council-room. The servant at the door will conduct you thither." I obeyed him, and left the apartment, find- ing at the door a female servant, who, with courtly steps, conducted me to the council- room. Drawing aside two crimson curtains,-I was ushered into that apartment. The room was large; the floor of gold, so highly polish- ed that it reflected objects with the truthful- ness of a mirror. Seated in a huge satin- cushioned rocking-chair was the queen, and on either side of the room were placed many other rocking-chairs, all occupied by richly- dressed females, who were rocking furiously. The queen looked at me sternly. 4' You have kept us waiting," said she. I humbly begged her to forgive my tardi- ness, as it was perfectly unintentional. She said I must write a formal apology. A table with writing materials was placed before me, and seating myself in a chair, I wrote a note begging forgiveness for my tardiness, stating that my only excuse was, that I was entirely unacquainted with the customs of the country. The queen's secretary registered the note, and   230      GULLIVER JOI. I was forgiven. The queen, now arising from her chair, said: "It is but proper, sisters, that our new mem- ber should be dedicated to the service of our guardian spirit. The ceremony for such dedi- cation shall take place immediately." The ladies all arose from their chairs, and simultaneously made a low salaam  to the queen. Then ranging themselves in a long row, one behind the other, they commenced a chant, in such a gibberish language, that I could not understand it, at the same time walking around me. Gradually, as they cir- cled around me, they advanced nearer, until they closed in a circle quite around my chair. The queen bade me arise. I did so. She then advanced, and threw over my shoulders an elegant satin petticoat, curiously embroidered with golden dragons, and breeches, which fell around my waist, the queen dexterously fasten- ing it to its place, and then compelled me to join in the procession. They proceeded to the farther end of the apartment, and one of the servants drawing aside a large yellow curtain, disclosing an image of an immense golden   VOYAGE TO RTARIO.    231 dragon, from whose mouth was suspended a pair of leathern breeches-very old ones- all shining with grease and long -usage. When the curtain was withdrawn, they all bowed down before the image, and chanted in a most dolorous manner. After concluding their chant they arose, and then bade me spit upon the breeches, which, although sore against my will, I was compelled to do. The cere- mony was now over. The queen said that if I proved faithful in the service of the dragon, I should be further instructed. We now all ad- journed to a room below, where was spread a table well furnished with most delicious viands. The morning succeeding my dedication, I has- tened to the prince's apartment, where I found him patiently awaiting my arrival. "I have determined," said he, " to give you a full account of the cause of my sorrows, and to ask you to give me your assistance to release me from them. But before I commence, you must swear not to divulge what I have said. Swear." "I swear," said I, solemnly laying my hand upon my heart.   vULLVil JVOl. "To give you a just idea," said he, "of the cause of my grief, I shall have to relate to you an ancient legend of my ancestors, the in- cidents of which took place about two hundred years ago." He then commenced the LEGEND OF THE GOLDEN DRAGON AND MAGIO BREECHES. " At the time of which the legend treats, the last male- king of Ejario reigned. Iis name was Tabolin, and from his many deeds of cruelty he was called Tabolin the Cruel. The ones upon whom he generally practised his cruelty, were females. Them he delighted to torment. They were compelled to perform the meanest labor; and when any rebelled against his commands, they were instantly put to death. They at last became so much exaspe~ rated against him, that they determined to rebel; but being weak, and the men so strong, they had but little hope of succeeding. Among the strongest opposers to the king, was Cortelia, a brave, true-hearted woman. One day, while, Diana-like, she was hunting in the immense  forests that skirts our city, she saw a snow- white deer, without speck or blemish, and de- termined to capture it alive, having, as an inducement, a law that had been made by the king, that whomsoever should present him with a white deer, shoulld ask any one thing save his crown, and it should be granted. Cortelia was a very swift runner, but could not overtake the deer, which kept just in advance of her. She might easily have shot him with her cross-bow, but forbore, wishing rather to capture him alive, and then present him to the king, and demand the reward, which she de- termined should be the releasement of her sex from bondage. The deer did not apparently desire to leave her; for whenever she, ex- hausted with her arduous exertions, stopped to recover herself, the deer also stayed his pro- gress, quietly browsing near her. She still continued the pursuit. The sun sank behind the hills, leaving the earth in darkness; but a luminous flame appeared to issue from  the body of the deer, serving as a guide to the brave huntress. She had followed the deer for many a weary mile, and was about giving up   284      Getosmivi JOI. the pursuit in despair, when she saw him enter a large opening in the rock. 'Now I have him,' thought she, and followed after him. She found herself in a large cave, which ex- tended some distance under ground, and was as dark as midnight. Cortelia, however, was not discouraged, but bravely kept on her way. She thus groped along after the deer, which she could see far in advance of her, glimmer- ing in the darkness, for some distance, when she saw at what appeared the farther extremity of the cave a large globe of fire, which was suspended from the ceiling. The deer passed under this globe of fire, and disappeared through a large aperture in the rock. Cortelia closely followed him, when she saw an object that both astonished and appalled her. At the farther extremity of the cavern in which she now found herself, she saw an immense dragon- shaped monster, whose large mouth was open- ed to its widest extent, seemingly with the intent of swallowing her. From his huge eyes he shot forth green flames, and he breathed mingled fire and smoke through his nostrils."   CHAPTER m. "Bur I weary you with this long story," said the prince. I insisted upon his continuing. "The deer which she had been following walked up close to the side of the dragon, as  though claiming its protection. Cortelia was much frightened, sinking upon the floor, when the dragon thus addressed her: "' Fear not, brave maiden. I sent the deer to conduct you hither. I have long witnessed the cruel conduct of the wicked king, Tabolin, and in your hands shall place means whereby his reign shall cease. This deer you shall take to him alive; and as he has promised upon his kingly word to grant the request of the giver, whatsoever it be (his crown excepted), ask you   236      oUtLLIVE JOI. of him that he will present you with a pair of his breeches. Do not fear that he will refuse you so small a recompense. After receiving the breeches, return you hither to me, and I will give you farther instructions.' "The dragon then spoke in a language un- intelligible to the maiden, upon which the deer immediately advanced close to her side. Upon his neck was a small collar from which was suspended a silken cord. "'Go maiden, and fear not,' said the dra- gon. "Taking the cord between her fingers, Cortelia conducted the deer from the cave; and then, after carefully marking the localities, so that she would be able to find the spot again, she set forth upon her return to the city. Arriving there just as the sun was arising, she instantly proceeded to the palace. The king, who was a very early riser, was about taking his morning walk, and met her at the palace gates. She presented the deer to him. He was over-joyed; for there was a legend of the royal family, that whenever one of its members was presented with a white deer,   VOYAGE TO EJARIO.     237 some joyful occurrence would take place. His joy was still greater when he heard the maiden's simple request; for he was fearful that she would ask for a larger present. He hastened to his sleeping apartment, and having selected the oldest and dirtiest pair of breeches he could find, gave them to the maiden, who, without sleeping, or otherwise refreshing her- self, so anxious was she, instantly set forth upon her return to the dragon's cave. Arriv- ing at the cave, the monster saw her ap- proach. "' Thrice happy maiden,' said he; 'for you was destined the disenthralment of your sex from the cruelty of the wicked king Tabolin. After refreshing yourself, (for you must need refreshment after the severe labor you have undergone,) you must return to the city, and call together the principal women, and relate to them what you have seen and done; then tell them that it is by my directions that an altar must be raised and dedicated to me-the dragon that has been the means of your libe- ration. The altar must b)e made of gold. I will tell you how to make it. Melt the gold,   238      GULLLVfK JOL and after it is melted to a liquid state, pour it in a state of fusion into a vessel of water, when it shall take the form desired. When the altar is finished, and placed upon a pedes- tal, take this padlock and fasten the breeches securely upon one of the teeth of the image you shall have formed; then return the key to me, from whom none can obtain it unless they divest me of a nail that grows upon my right hind foot.' "Thus saying, he gave her a small golden padlock, after which he roared three times very loud, at which signal a dwarf of uncouth form en- tered the apartment. His head and body were so joined together that they seemed but one: they were supported by two thin legs, which seemed much too small for the great weight of his body. The dwarf prepared a feast for Cortelia, that far surpassed anything of the kind she ever saw before. The dragon seated himself at one end of the table, and bade her be seated at the other; and it was a source of much surprise to her to see the enormous mon- ster before her munch delicate cakes and con- fectionary with his huge teeth, which seemed   VOYAGE TO EJARIO.     .239 fit for no other purpose than to tear human flesh. "'You perceive,' said he, 'that I am not so wicked a monster as I am represented to be. Although I breathe fire and smoke, I am as gentle as the gentlest of your lovers.' "After finishing their meal, the- dwarf spread a thick velvet cloth upon the floor, and the dragon bade her rest herself upon it. Cortelia had so much confidence in the dragon that she did not fear; and, therefore, laying herself upon the velvet, she was soon fast asleep. She was awakened early. the next morning by the dwarf, who said that his mras- ter had gone out to take his morning exercise. She left the cavern. Looking upwards, she saw the dragon sporting high in air, using his huge wings with all the dexterity of the eagle. Hastening to the city, she went from house to house of her female friends, requiring them to meet her at her house that evening, adding, that she had some very important news to tell them. "That evening they all assembled in Cor- telia's house, which contained a large hall, in   240      GULULVE JOI. which the female conspirators were wont to hold their meetings. After they had arrived, Cortelia related to them what she had seen and heard; and furthermore said, that if they were willing she would immediately com- mence to make the image of the dragon. The ladies that were assembled gave their assent, and immediately divested themselves of their jewelry; and. as it was customary for the ladies of Ejario to wear an enormous quantity, they had almost enough.  Cortelia had pro- vided a crucible, into which she placed the gold; and then fixing the crucible over a hot fire, suffered the gold to melt. Other ladies that could not come earlier now arrived; and eager to participate in their liberation, in- stantly stripped themselves of their jewelry, and added it to that already within the cruci- ble. The gold soon melted, and Cortelia de- sired four of the strongest to lift the crucible, and pour its contents into a large vessel of water, which she had provided for that pur- pose. They did so; and after the ebulition caused by the glowing mass coming in contact with the water had ceased, and the metal be-   VOYAGE TO EJArIO.     241 come cool, Cortelia anxiously poured the water from the vessel. There remained at the bot. tom an exact image of the dragon. By their united efforts they succeeded in lifting it from the vessel, and placed it upon a pedestal that Cortelia had caused to be fixed at the far end ' of the room. She then produced the king's  y breeches, and having affixed them to the pad- lock, locked it securely to one of the teeth of the golden dragon; then taking the key under her charge, she dismissed the crowd of females, desiring them to come the next evening; and then instantly started for the dragon's cave, where she found the dragon awaiting her com- ing. Giving him the key, he suspended it upon the nail of his right hind foot. "'There remains,' said he, 'but one thing more to be done: that is, to punish the king for his wickedness. That shall be my task. Return to the city, and when you hear of a startling event, which will soon occur, you will know that your sex is free. Continue your meetings in the hall you have dedicated to my worship. Form   a government among your- selves, which government shall go into effect 16   242      GAdLuVVA JOL as soon as the disenthronement of the present king.' "Cortelia returned to the city, and anxiously awaited the time promised by the dragon. Each week she held meetings at her hall, where the dragon was worshipped. "Meanwhile the worthy monster busied himself in finding means to destroy the king. Having the power of changing his form, he- took the form of a young man, and appearing to the king in a vision, thus addressed him: "'O! king! you have a great enemy that threatens your crown. I have come to deliver him into your hands. To-morrow evening go alone to Drearson Forest, and you will meet with a huntsman, who will present you with a golden arrow, which, at your bidding, will go to the heart of your deadliest enemy. King, remember my words.' "The king awoke, and determined to visit the forest, as commanded by the spirit. Ac- cordingly, that evening he went, unattended, to the forest, and met the stranger, who gave him the golden arrow. "'King,' said he, ' this is for thee. Thou   VOYAGE TO EJARIO.     243 shalt place it in thy bow, and say, "Arrow, pierce the heart of the greatest enemy I have, I charge thee by the power of the dragon of Drearson Forest." The arrow will obey your command.' "The king took the arrow from the myste- rious stranger, who instantly disappeared, and returned to the palace. Hastening to his chamber, he took his bow, and placed the arrow upon the string, saying: "'Arrow, pierce the heart of the greatest enemy I have, I charge thee by the power of the dragon of Drearson Forest.' "Tmmediately be let fly the arrow, which, striking against the, opposite side of the room, rebounded, and entered his heart, and he fell dead upon the floor; thus proving that he was his own greatest enemy." 3'   C AAPfE9K IV. "MY story is nearly finished," continued the prince. "After the death of the king, the ma- gic breeches began to show their power. The men became feminine in all their tastes, while, on the contry, the women became masculine. The hair of the men dropped from their heads, while their beards grew to an inordinate length. Their shoulders grew narrow, and they had a great fondness for jewelry and fine clothing; while the former had no beard upon their chins, but wore long, luxurious hair upon their heads. Their shoulders expanded, and they affected a great dislike for anything like fine dresses or show. They still, however, wore their original female costume; and when they wished to punish any of their companions,   VOYAGE TO EJAIO.-     245' they clothed them in breeches, and called them  men-hearted cowards. Cortelia was crowned queen by the majority of those that deemed  her their liberator. But -others thought it better to place FranzJetta, the daughter of king Tabolin, upon the throne, thus securing a descendant of the royal family. Nevertheless, the former party prevailed, and Cortelia was crowned queen. This so much exasperated the royalists, that they gave battle to the Cortelians, in which, notwithstanding the greatness of their numbers, the latter were driven from the city of Ejario into an adjoin- ing district, where they founded a new govern- ment, which is known to this day as Cortelia. The Cortelians are, and always have been, the bitterest enemies of the Ejarioans, or royalists, who, as soon as the Cortelians were worsted, placed Franzletta upon the throne. Scarcely a year passes but there occurs a battle between these two powers. "I am a descendant of Franzletta, thus be- ing a member of the legitimate royal family. My mother .having no female issue, the throne will, therefore, pass from our hands; for ac-   246 "       "Livji J 01. cording to the law there can be no kings. If I could find means to obtain the key from the dragon, and remove the breeches from their resting-place, this would not be so. You, sir, seem to have been sent for the especial purpose of recovering the key; for the legend also says, that if the key be removed, it shall be done by a stranger. Therefore, I beseech you, if you wish to do a service both to me and my brethren, to assist me in rescuing the key from the possession of the dragon." "But," said I, " you forget that I have taken the oath of allegiance to the dragon, having been compelled to spit upon the breeches." "That oath," he answered, " is not binding, as you were compeled to do so; and more, you are not a woman. Besides this, they de- serve to have the government taken from them; for my mother, although she treats me kindly, is far more cruel to the balance of my sex, than even Tabolin was to the women. I think the time for our deliverance has come; for there is an old prophecy, spoken by a cele- brated soothsayer, sometime after the occur- rences which I have described had taken place,   VOYAGE TOs o  LaBo.     iA7 to this effect, that whenever there was born to the royal family a son that hath hair upon the crown of his head, then there is danger to the queen. My mother is acquainted with this prophecy, and thinking that I am the one spoken of, takes great precaution that I shall not leave the palace a suffici ent length of time to do much damage. See, even now my anxious mother sends for me. I will see you again this evening, and hold farther conver- sation with you upon this subject." At this moment a domestic approached, and told the prince that his mother wished to see him. Reminding me to be sure and meet him, he left me. The domestic then mformed me that there wasto be a grand review of the whole army that afternoon, prior to their giving battle to the Cortelians upon the following day, and that it was expected that I should be present. I hastened to my apartment and donned my petticoat, and then awaited urther orders. I had not waited long, ere the queen sent word for me to dine with her. I instantly followed the servant that brought the order, and was ushered into the dining-room. After   248      oULvLaL JOI. dinner, the queen said that my horse was waiting at the door for me. Taking the hint, I left her, and found the horse completely caparisoned, with a side-saddle for my use. Ordering that the saddle should be taken off, for I could not ride upon it, I sprang upon the bare back of the steed, and rode towards a large tent that was standing in the centre of one of the public squares, from the top of which was floating the broad banner of the queen, much resembling, in color and figure, an immense cashmere shawl. The queen had already arrived, and compli- mented me highly for daring to ride a horse bare-backed. She was seated upon a beautiful animal, of a perfect milk-white color, and caparisoned  in the most gorgeous manner. Her lady officers gathered around her, each as finely mounted. My arrival was the signal of our departure for the large field in which was to be held the review. What a splendid sight met my eyes as I gazed over that expan- sive field, and saw the countless multitudes of he majesty's soldiers.   VOYAGE TO EJARIO.      249 The queen sent bulletins to the captains of each company, which read as follows: "We have heard that- the Cortelians have been so fool-hardy as to cross the northern frontier, and, we understand, intend to push their way to the great city of Ejario. We do, therefore, recommend you all, as good and loyal subjects of the lawful queen of Ejario, that- you forthwith go out to meet them, give them battle, and drive them from the country. And we do hereby proclaim that you must prepare yourselves forthwith; that to-morrow morning will find you all ready to meet the enemy." When the bulletins had been read to the various companies by their several commanders, a loud shout arose from the whole army, thus testifying that they would obey their queen's command. As it was now nearly dark, the queen gave orders that the soldiers should encamp upon that spot, that they might be ready for their next day's expedition. That same evening, as agreed upon, I called at the prince's room, where I found him, impatiently awaiting my arrival. f   260     GULLmdV  JoOL "I thought you would not come," said he gloomily. -"Have you made up your mind concerning my proposition this morning? Will you or will you not assist me in regaining the key from the dragon?" "I am with you," said I, " for I have become entirely disgusted with this foolish government. But where is this dragon to be found?" "I understand," he answered, 'that my mother intends to give battle to the Cortelians on  the morrow. You, of course, will be present. In the midst of the tumult, I wish you to come to me, when I shall not be watch- ed, and we will go together to the dragon's cave." We conversed upon the subject until a late hour of the night, when we  were suddenly interrupted by the sound of sweet music. "A   serenade," said Tommo. "It is custom- ary for gallant young ladies, on the eve of battle, to serenade those young men they love. You may presume that a  young gentleman of my high rank must have a great many lovers. Hear their soul-sickening words." I listened. The singer accompanied her   VOYAGE TO   JAIO.       - 251 voice with the music of an instrument that sounded much like a guitar. THE SERENADE, "1 Oh I Tommols beard is soft as silk, And black as black can be, His skin it is as white as milk, Tommo, I love but thee. Tum, tum, tum, tum, etc. "Open thy window, Tommo dear, It is thy sweethearths voice, Come forth, my love, and do not fear, But make my heart rejoice. Tumrn, turn, tum, tum, etc. Oh! that I had an eagle's wings, To thee, my love, I'd fly, Oh I listen while Cintilla sings, Dear Tommo, it is I. Tumrn, tumrn, tumrn, tum, etc. "The moonlight loses half its charms, However bright it be, But could I clasp thee in my arms, How brighter it would be! Tum, tum, tum, tum, etc. "To-morrow's strife, mayhap, will weave Death's garland for my brow, But thou, dear Tommo, will not grieve, [ fear you hate me now Y Tumrn tum, tum, turn , etc."   252      GoULLVER JOI. However silly were the words, the music was beautifal, and if it was customary to insert music in books, I would do so here, adapting it to other words. At the close of the serenade, Tommo hastened to the window, and threw from it a bunch of cypress, signifying that the latter words of the song were correct. The next morning I was awakened from my slumbers, before the sun had risen, by the loud clangor of warlike instruments of music. Looking from my win- dow, I saw the immense army slowly wending its way through the streets of the city. While at the window, the queen and staff dashed by. Startled by the sight, I hastily donned my petticoat, and went forth. My steed was already saddled for the fight. Causing the cumbrous thing to be taken from his back, I sprang upon him, and hastened to join the queen, who, to my extreme pleasure, said nothing concerning my tardiness. The army slowly wound its way towards the frontier, where, the queen had been informed by her spies, the Cortelians were awaiting her ap- proach. After a march of about five miles, we lit   VOYAGE TO EJAO.      253 arrived at the field of our future glory or disgrace. The Cortelians were drawn up in battle array on the opposite side of the field. They were armed in the same manner in which we were, to wit: (as lawyers say,) with huge knitting-needles and darning-needles, as offen- sive weapons, and their beautifully-embroidered knitting-sheaths for defending the blows of their enemies. But the description of the battle that followed requires another chapter.      \      COAAPPl',: i V. ToE combatants advanced until they stood about six feet from each other, and each one choosing an opponent, opened not a physical warfare, but a war of words, each aiming at the character rather than the body of her opponent. Dire was the noise, crses, screams, and yells were heard from all partsof the field, mingling together -until the very sky rang with the shrillness of the sound. My an- tagonist was a large, fieshy woman, with a tongue that rattled with the swiftness and harshness of a clacking saw-mill. I, for a time, essayed to keep even with her; but over- powered by the vehemence of her language, I was frced to beat a retreat. Now, having worked themselves into a proper spirit, the ,  .      ,^   VOYAGE TO EJARIO.      ,bB ittle commenced in earnest. According to e Homeric style of description-- And now the battle, joined, knitting-sheath against knitting- sheath, And knitting-needle with knitting-needle, conflicting petti- coats rang; Strong women met, and tumult wild arose, Then many a yell was heard, and many a shout Loud intermixed, the slayer o'er the maimed Exulting, and the field was drenched with blood, As when two winter torrents rolling down The mountains, shoot their floods through gulleys huge Into one gulf below." After the tumult of the battle became gene-  ,1, I hastened, according to agreement, to Leet Tommo, whom I found in his apartment. re instantly departed for the forest which :irted the southern   portion of the  city. . uided by Tommo, we arrived at the centre 'the deep woods, where he thought the dra- n's cave was located.  But nothing could be en save a large stone, which protruded from ,e marshy soil to a great height. In vain we (amined all sides of the rock, with the hope o ' discovering an  opening.  While  looking round, I saw a singular-looking creature ap- roaching us. His head and body were grown   26      zGULL!va Joz. together as one; and from his general appear. ance, I thought it must be the one described in the legend relate by Tommo. "Good morning, young masters," said he, gallantly doffing his hat. "Do you seek his worship, the dragon?" He now, apparently for the first time, fully saw Tommo, and an expression of the deepest sorrow passed over his countenance-then sud- denly lighted up. "I know your wish," said he; (" you search for the key that will unclasp the padlock from the magic breeches. Without my assistance you will be unable to obtain it. If you pro- mise to follow my directions, I will consent to assist you." Of course, as we had no better plan, we in- stantly consented to place ourselves under his directions. The dwarf then mounted upon the apex of the enormous stone, and struck his heel forcibly upon its very centre. At the blow, there arose from the rock a large screw, which gradually wound its way upward, until it had reached far above the tops of the sur- rounding trees. He then descended from  his     VOYAGE TO EJAIO.     257T elevated position, and with his foot pushed the rock aside with the greatest ease, the rock being hung upon a pivot, and disclosed the opening of the cave. A large ball of fire was suspended in the interior of the cavern, illu- mining-it with the brightness of noon-day. Fol- lowing the dwarf, we descended a steep flight of steps, roughly hewn in the solid rock, until we had reached the rocky bottom of the cave. "He sleeps," said the dwarf; "walk care- fully, that you may not disturb him; for should he awaken, he would certainly destroy Our strange conductor went to the opposite side of the cavern, and took-from a small recess cut in the side of the wall, a golden- harp; returning, he presented it to me. "You are," said he, "the being sent by the guardian spirit of the Ejarioans, for their re- lease from the wetched state of bondage in which they now are. The time allotted for the punishment fixed upon them by the wicked- ness of the, haughty king Tabolin has expired. Take this harp. As long as you strike its strings, so long will the monster continue to 17   258      GULUVI JOI. sleep. Enter the door from whence yon yellow light is issuing. Advance to the back part of the apartment, where sleeps the dragon. Upon his right hind foot is a claw, or nail, upon which hangs the'key. Detach this claw from its resting-place with this golden knife, and place the nail in your pocket. After having secured it, take from the wall a small crystal" vial, which you will see suspended from it. Then bring them both to me. Fear not; for there is no danger as long as you continue to sound the cords of the harp." I entered the cave in which the dragon was sleeping, sounding the harp at the same time. By the light of 'a yellow-colored flame that was suspended from the ceiling, I distinctly saw the monster. He was of immense size, his body shaped somewhat like that of a frog, but cov- ered with huge scales, which, as the creature breathed forth the mingled fire and smoke from his nostrils, raised and fell upon his pant- ing sides, creating a sharp clicking sound. His head, affixed to a long, thin neck, was shaped like a horse's, and was surmounted with a crest. Huge tusks garnished the mouth, which   VOYAGE TO EJRIO.     259 extended from ear to ear. He did not awake, as I approached him continuing to sound my harp. I shudderingly passed by his terrible- looking head, and passed around his form until I reached his right hind foot, where I saw the sharp nail, with the golden key suspended upon it. Using the knife given me by the dwarf, I commenced severing it from the foot. In the excitement of the moment, I forgot to sound my harp, whereupon the monster, with a frightful roar, turned upon me. His crest elevated, his green eyes glaring at me in, rage, and his huge mouth open to its widest extent, shooting forth flames of green fire and volumes of sulphurous smoke. I was so frightened that I almost sank to the ground; but recovering my presence of mind, I immediately struck the cords of the harp, at the sound of which his terri;le eyes closed, and with a'feeble moan he fell prone to the ground. I again attempted to remove the nail, determined not to be foiled again. By dint of great- perseverance, I suc- ceeded in cutting it from the foot, and placed it and the key in my pocket. Then going to   260      G-ULJLIVB JOI. the other side of the apartment, where I saw the crystal vial hanging from the wall, and, was about to remove it, when I saw under it another dwarf, the exact counterpart of the one that guided us into the cavern. He was, however, fast asleep; and thinking it would be better to take him to the other, I lifted him from the ground, and disengaging the vial    from the wall, I returned to the outer chamber, where I had left my companion. I found him in a state of great agitation, weeping bitterly; for, having heard the angry roar of the dragon, he supposed that I was de- stroyed. Re-assured by my return, he sprang to my arms, and fervently embraced me. No sooner had the friendly dwarf seen the one I had brought from the dragon's cave, than,. snatching the crystal vial from my hand, he - sprinkled some of its contents over him. As soon as the liquid touched his form, he sprang up, in form an old, very old man, and clasping his hands together, he gazed a moment upon his pestore's face with a thankful expression;  and then falling back, he breathed his last.   VOYAGE TO ETARIO.     261 "It works well," said the dwarf, when he witnessed the effect produced by the liquid. ' Now for the palace!" Ascending the steps, we hasteped to the )alace. The streets of the city were thronged vith frightened men and children, who, at our pproach, fled with the utmost precipitation. Lrriving at the palace, we proceeded straight- Tay to the apartment where was kept the olden dragon. "You," said the dwarf to me, " must go to ie battle-field; and when you perceive a reat change take place, return hither." Mounting my horse, I galloped towards the eld of action. The loud-screams and howls ' the infuriated women gave plain token that key were still engaged in combat. I entered Le melee. They had almost become maniacs ider the excitement of the fight. Throwing aide their long knitting-needle spears, they Lshed together, clasping each other in deadly ,mbat, and beat their antagonists wlith their  its until they were unable to stand; finally,   j fishing the combat by stabbing them with      long, sharp darning-needle. In the midst of Ong e ml   262      GULLIlVER JOI. this turmoil, when the battle was raging at its full height, a loud clap of thunder reverber- ated through the skies. As though struck by an electric, shock, the combatantsF ceased, and gazed at each other as though in astonishment at their former ferocity. 'I knew that the magic breeches had been removed. The war- riors now seated themselves upon the ground, and clasping their knees with clenched fingers, they commenced weeping. At this stage of the proceedings, I hastened back to the palace. The dwarf had removed the magic breeches, and Tommo had donned them. The dwarf then told us to go find the king, and bid him to tell the men of Ejario to go forth for their wives. 'We found the king in his private chamber, clothing himself in a suit of armor; and when we told him what had taken place, bidding us follow him, he rushed from the palace. We went into the street. What a    change had taken place! The men that I had before seen so cowardly and feeble, now walk-  ed erect, their eyes flashing with animation; and already had a large crowd of them gathered together in the market-place, deter-'  ..   VOYAGE TO EJARIO.     263 mined to regain their lost privileges. The king, mounting a rostrum, addressed them briefly, telling them to arm themselves, and go forth to the battle-field, and bring home their recreant wives. Without farther ado, they has- tened, led on by the king, to the battle-field. I accompanied Tommo. We found the female combatants in the same situation in which I had left them, and were not surprised when we saw a body of the Cortelians' husbands coming for the same purpose that the Ejarioans had-that is, in search of their wives; for when the magic breeches had been removed from the dragon's mouth, the spell that had hitherto hung over the men was broken, and they regained the -manhood and courage of their ancestors.    *  Peacefully -they went among the weeping women, each man, as he recognized his wife, bidding her to follow him, which, without a dissenting word, she did. The slain, which were but few, were carefully gathered together, and placed upon litters, and conveyed' back to the city; and thus universal peace was ro-   264      AULLVr JOI. stored between the Ejarioans and Cortelians. The men of Cortelia, wishing to become sub- jects of the legitimate king, Whilton, the father of Tommo, who immediately called a council of the chief men of the kingdom, and appointed his officers. While the council was sitting, Tommo, who had gone in search of the dwarf, returned, bringing him with him. The  i dwarf advanced to the king, and said : "Men of Ejario, I am the great and wicked - king Tabolin, for whose sins you have been compelled so long to suffer. But I have some- what repaid you for those sufferings, by having liberated you from  your bondage. I was  tempted by the dragon, and fell into his power. Through his means I was slain, and my spirit issuing. from the wound caused by the golden arrow, was seized by my tempter, and placed within this uncouth form. For many long years I have been compelled to obey and serve the dragon in company with ano- ther dwarf, whom I have also liberated. After my death, I wish this illustrious stranger, to whom you cannot he too grateful, to place his   VOYAGE TO EJAIO.     26 seal upon the rock in which the dragon now is; and until that seal is removed, the dragon will be unable to escape from the rock. "In conclusion," he continued, addressing the king, " my son, I wish you to remember my sins, and let them serve as a warning to you. Be generous. To those that deserve it award punishment, according to their sins. But let the reward of the just be their own conscience, which will certainly render suffi- cient satisfaction to them for doing good. Let none of your subjects punish their wives for having treated them so cruelly, for they were merely instruments in the hands of Providence for my punishment; and beware, O king, be- ware of the sin of egotism. Let not the hap- piness of others be sacrificed to give you plea- sure; but rather suffer yourself for the good of your subjects. Do not quarrel with the neighboring powers; but let your mind be satisfied with what you now possess. Covet nothing farther. For the purpose of instruct- ing you how to form good laws, I will present you with a code that was used by my father, who gave it me when upon his death-bed, with   266      OTrLIVER JOI. his parting injunction of following its precepts; but I did not, and you know my punishment." Thus saying, he gave the king a large, iron- bound book. "I will now," said he, " bid you farewell. Tommo, to you I will say, that when the crown shall be placed upon your head, follow im- plicitly the laws laid down in that book, and I can safely promise you a long and prosperous reign. "Illustrious stranger," said he, addressing me, "upon you devolves the task of repaying me for the sufferings I have endured. Take the crystal vial and sprinkle its contents upon me." I hesitated, for I remembered the effect it produced when he used it upon his comrade in the cavern. "Do not fear to do so," said he, perceiving my hesitation; " for, although I shall certainly die, it is far better for me to suffer death, than i to bear this load of deathless misery, which prevents my being in a happier world." Thus exhorted, I advanced towards him, and raising the vial, let fall a few drops of the   VOYAGE TO FJABIO.     267 liquid upon his head. Instantly the dark scowl that had disfigured his countenance passed from it, a mild expression usurping its place. He raised himself up, and stood in our presence a tall, venerable-looking man. "My son," said he, to the king, " remember my words." He staggered back. The king sprang from his seat, caught him in his arms, and placed him in a large chair. He fell back; and with one look of kindness and gratitude upon me. he died. r    COAkPTER VI. I WIL not attempt to describe the magni- ficence of the funeral ceremonies of king Tabolin. Suffice it to say, that king Whilton spared no expense to have it conducted with the utmost grandeur. The king gave orders that the golden dragon should be put in the melting-pot, and coined. With the money thus formed he had a  splendid palace built, of more durable material than the present one. I frequently visited the queen after she had become composed in mind. She appeared contented and even pleased that her power had gone from her. "Ah! Gulliver!" said she, to me, "how   VOYAGE TO EJABIO.     269 much better everything appears than it did when you first visited us." And so it did, the females calmly taking charge of their families, leaving the more im- portant duties for the men. When all became quiet, my thoughts natu- rally turned on the means whereby I might re- turn to my beloved home. I therefore inquired of my friend Tommo concerning the plausi- bility of building a vessel. He .said that in former times his ancestors were accustomed to build ships; but that when the females ob- tained possession of the country, they destroyed the whole fleet, as women were proverbially afraid of water; but that he would inform the king of my desire, as he had no doubt but that he would have one built for my especial use. The next day, after this conversation with the prince, the king sent for me, requesting that I should fulfill the command of the late king Tabolin-to place my seal upon the rock that covered the dragon's cavern. I assented to his wish, and therefore, followed by an immense procession of all the nobles of the   970      GULLIVER JOIO land, proceeded to the forest in which was the cave.. Mounting upon the rock, I affixed a large seal, on which my name was engraved, upon the spot, which concealed the screw. The king granted Tommo's request, to build a vessel for my use, and after it was completed, he, at my request, manned it with several Ejarioans, who wished to accompany me to my country. After several day's practice, they were enabled to work the vessel, and, with many affectionate adieus, with a prosper- ous breeze, we set sail. We encountered no rough weather, and, having shaped our course correctly, we arrived at New York in safety, and proceeded directly up the Hudson river to the residence of my father-in-law. I found my wife and children well, but mourning for me as dead. Pen cannot describe the meeting between Martha and myself, and  as she is now looking over my shoulder, she says that even if I could describe it, I must not, as she no doubt acted very foolishy upon that occasion. Roderick had, upon discovering my loss, immediately returned, and brought home the sad tidings. However, all was right   VOYAGE TO rEARIO.     271 now-their sorrow was 'turned into joy at my safe arrival. My vessel I sold for a large sum of money. The three inhabitants of Ejario preferred re- maining with me, and employed themselves in working upon our farm. Thus, my dear reader, my last voyage was completed. But I contemplate another. Start not; I do not intend to weary you with another tiresome account of it, but perhaps it is but proper for me to say, that Colorondo has determined to revisit Kailoo, and Roderick, now that he has a pair of cork legs that serve him almost as well as his own, has determined to go with him. My wife, Martha, also wishes to go, and, therefore I shall have to accompany them. During my absence, Roderick had built a balloon sufficiently large to contain twelve persons, and I have resolved to take my faithful Ejarioan servants with me. My purpose is to establish a newspaper in Kailoo, for which, if any of my young readers wish to subscribe, please address me, post-paid, at the city of tailoo, in the planet Kailoo. The paper will reach them,as Roderick is   272      @REJGUIEB A JOI.        about to run a ball between the earth and that planet, twice a week, regularly. He will be happy to carry such persons as wish to visit 0ailoo. There is no danger, for our balloon is so large and easy of guidance, that a child might conduct it safely. We hope, by its means, to form a direct line of communi- cation between the two spheres,'and also traffic with the Hydrogenians. I now will take my leave of my kind readers, knowing that those who have followed me through my adventures, which, if not written in a polished manner, at least bears the stamp of truth, will take an  interest in my welfare ;. and, hoping that my readers may have gathered some good from these pages, I affctionately bid them farewell, trusting, however, that they will occasionally hear from me through the columns of my Kailooitish newslpaper. THE END.     
         
       
   
