
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Marlby Villa .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7205
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            PRICE FIFTY CENTS. 
             
               MARLBY VILLA. 
             
             
               
                   
                     "Great God! we thank thee for this home- 
                     This bounteous birthland of the free; 
                     Where wanderers from afar may come, 
                     And breathe the air of liberty!- 
                     Still may her flowers untrampled spring, 
                     Her harvests wave, her cities rise; 
                     And yet, 'till Time shall fold his wing, 
                     Remain Earth's loveliest paradise!" 
                  
                
             
            BY THE AUTHORESS, (ROME, GEORGIA.) 
            
               ATLANTA, GEORGIA: 
               PUBLISHED BY WILLIAM KAY.
             
            1858. 
          
          
             
            MEDICAL BOOKS! 
            WM. KAY, Agt., Medical Bookseller, Whitehall St., Atlanta, Ga. 
            Keeps always on hand a large and well selected supply of the latest Medical Publications, as well as Elementary Works, and will fill orders at the lowest possible rates. New Publications received as issued from the press, and sold at Publishers' prices. 
            Books are being constantly ordered, and a single volume of the smallest value may, at any time, be sent for. 
            Subscriptions received for any Periodical, Medical, or otherwise, American or Foreign; payable, in all cases, in advance. 
          
          
            A New System of English Grammar! 
            ON THE ORAL METHOD, TO WHICH IS ADDED A KEY TO THE EXERCISES, BY JOHN LIVOR. 
            
               Second Stereotype Edition. Price 50 Cents, Postage Paid. 
            FOR SALE BY WM. KAY, AGENT, ATLANTA, GEORGIA. 
             
               PREFACE. 
               IF any of the previous publications of English Grammar have received the approbation and esteem of the public, the author hopes that his New System of English Grammar will be no less approved and esteemed. 
               So many different systems of instructions in that science have been invented, that there is now little room left, but for improvements on the works of others. 
               Therefore, in presenting the New System of English Grammar to the public, the author does not intend to enter into the ranks with men who have made new discoveries, but with those who have made improvements on the works of others. 
               The author having been engaged in teaching English Grammar for several years past, has always been very particular in the selection of his books; and after having tried all that he could find, he has observed their merits and defects. Hence he has found that some works designed for teaching the English language are insufficient to accomplish the object in the time it might be accomplished, and that others are entirely inadequate for accomplishing it at all; the former are so perplexing as regards the lengthy treatises upon the various subjects, the language, and the arrangements contained therein, that not one-tenth part of the number of persons engaged in the study make the necessary progress short of a long course of years and experience; the latter treat so slightly on the science, and omit the necessary rules, notes, and observations to such an extent that they are even more objectionable than the former. 
               To remedy this defect, the author adopted a method upon which is based his New System of English Grammar, and found it crowned with great and unequalled success; a test which most assuredly proves the usefulness of the system, and which was mainly instrumental in inducing him to prepare this work. 
               The author flatters himself that his New System of English Grammar is sufficiently simple in its language, comprehensive and complete in the arrangement of all its parts, so as to command itself not only to the youngest beginner, but to the more advanced student also. 
             
          
          
            McCURDY'S ARITHMETIC, 
            Wm. Kay, Publisher Atlanta, Ga. Mailed to all parts, free of Postage, for $1 00. 
            We have examined this work, now completed, and take pleasure in recommending it to the patronage of the Southern public. It is, beyond question, better adapted to the wants of Southern schools than anything of the kind we have seen, and in addition to this, is the recommendation of having been gotten up by Southern talent and industry. 
            The work is practical, and the examples are such as occur in the daily transactions of life, applying rules and principles to just such cases alone, and thus relieving the pupil of his greatest difficulty, by presenting familiar examples instead of complex and unheard of exercises which, however well they may illustrate the rule, does not familiarize him with its application-the great desideratum in mathematical studies. See advertisement on third page. 
          
          
            A VALUABLE BOOK: 
            
               Every Farmer ought to have a Copy of the Chinese Sugar Cane-Sorgho and Imphee-The Chinese and African Sugar Canes-A Treatise upon their Original Varieties and Culture. 
            Their value as a Forage Crop, and the manufacture of Sagar, Syrap, Alchol, Wines, Beer, Cider, Vinegar, Starch and Dye Stuffs; with a paper by Leonard Wray, Esq., of Caffraria, and a description of his patented process for crystalizing the Juice of the Imphee. To which are added copious translations of valuable French pamphlets. 
            By HENRY S. OLCOTT. 
            Price $1 25, sent Postage Free, to any address. For Sale by WM. KAY, Agent. 
          
          
            The Southern Arithmetic, 
            A Phylosophical and Practical Treatise on the Science of Numbers, designed for the use of schools. By Morgan H. Looney, Principal of the Fayetteville, Georgia, Seminary. Price $1 25. 
            WM. KAY, Agent, Atlanta, Geo. 
          
       
      
         
            Marlby Villa 
             
            MARLBY VILLA. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "I hear thee speak of the better land; 
                           Thou call'st its children a happy band; 
                           Mother' oh, where is that radiant shore? 
                           Shall we not seek it, and weep no more? 
                           Is it where the flower of the orange blows, 
                           And the fire-flies dance through the myrtle boughs?" 
                           "Not there not there, my child!" 
                        
                      
                     MRS. HEMANS. 
                   
                
               IT was night-dark sable night! No gentle moon lent a feeble light to guide the footsteps of a wanderer, save the vivid flashes of forked lightning, that ever and anon played on the smooth sandy road. The moaning winds seemed chanting the requiem of a lost spirit, as it rattled through the long oaken boards of a ruined cottage, mingling at intervals with the song of water as it murmured by, whilst the lightning's wing struggled through the zizzag crevices; then big round drops pattered on the roof, as with the soothing step of childhood. On a rude couch lay the mother of Isadore; she raised her large, glassy eyes, as if in expectation. 
               "Come, my Isadore," said she, soft as the ripple of yonder stream, "Is that you? I know it is. Did such luxuriant tresses ever kiss other cheek than yours? did such betwitching smile ever play round other mouth than yours? With thee, child of my solitude-here, where I have nursed my misanthropy-here, let me wither and die, not as the giant oak, with one fell stroke, and fall with a mighty crash; but as the tender plant, wither and die! Once to die!-oh, horror!-that chaos of thought! that perpetual stare at nothing. But immortality-what an idea to grasp-a happy future dawns on my soul! a crown, a laurel won! 
               A knock at the door, and Mrs. Marlby entered, accompanied by Dr. Bayles, a considerable bombast, and altogether superfluous in his manner. Whether a patient was very sick or not, this specimen of the genus homo was not the one to destroy his importance, by considering them out of danger; but would rather magnify the danger; shake his head knowingly; and nothing but his extraordinary skill, and, "just then," could save them. 
               This worthy son of Esculapius loved to quote Mythology, dip deep into history; the more remote the better; extravagant in his interrogations, yet managing adroitly enough, not to linger on one subject long enough for one to detect his depth of literature. His ingenuity in cross questioning saved him exposure; and it was taken for granted that he knew everything worthy of knowledge. This Jupiter's thunderbolts were often felt by his much humbled acquaintance; yet all proud to live in his wonderful age of improvement! His motto, in his most patronizing manner, "allow me to make a suggestion." 
               Mrs. Marlby, the rich planter's wife, knelt at the bedside of her sister, and a tide of bitter feeling rushed on her soul. She thought of the long estrangement, and the sunny hours of childhood returned with a vivid freshness unknown for years, their juvenile days, e'er distinction was written on their destiny. She had never ceased to love her sister; how had she allowed her heart to become so callous? The arrows of conviction stung deep within her heart, and the frail creature determined to do better. She would make up in kindness to the beautiful Isadore. 
               Morn came-and evening waned; and Isadore watched the rays of life, as it flickered and played with the feeble breath of her mother. She watched the sunbeams dancing merrily on the dear old door step, hallowed by a mystic father's love, who had taught her "the language of the stars;" and the tears fell thick and fast. 
               The tall trees stood silent and forlorn, each hallowed by a remembrance. On each it seemed there lingered a fate too melancholy for description-too wild for words. Now her eye rested on fanciful-wreathes of smoke which curled gracefully-then the dying embers. Her mind had settled into a kind of apathy, and seemed incapable of other action than counting the "sands of life," then wearing away. 
               But suddenly the cry of death reverberated on the midnight air! 
                
               Near the edge of a dense forest wild, beneath an aged and haughty pine, whose perpetual murmur was to the song of water-far, far away, from the din and confusion of city, the votaries of fashion-and where the verdant grass waves in the evening breeze, perfumed with jessamine, and fanned by the breath of magnolias, lay the mother of Isadore! 
               With her own fingers she twined the little green moss into the simple inscription, 
                     "MY MOTHER."
                  
                
               There, on a rustic seat, she listend to the wild carol of some forest warbler, whose voice sounded far above the song of the pine. She wended her way to the dilapidated cottage; long grass, and luxuriant weeds clustered around the dear old door step. 
               She leaned out of the carriage window, as if to catch one last glance at the home of her childhood. 
               "Isadore, cheer up, you are too misanthropic, and you are so little improved, I fear this visit has been any thing but beneficial to you; such intense grief, in one so young, is melancholly indeed," said Mrs. Marlby. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "I saw two beings in the hues of youth 
                           Standing upon a hill, a gentle hill, 
                           Green and of mild declivity, the last 
                           As 't were the cape of a long ridge of such, 
                           Save that there was no sea to lure its breeze, 
                           But a most living landscape, and the wave 
                           Of woods and corn fields, and wreathing smoke 
                           Arising from such rustic roofs; the hill 
                           Was crowned with a peculiar diadem 
                           Of trees, in circular array, so fixed 
                           Not by the sport of Nature, but of man." 
                        
                      
                     BYRON'S DREAM. 
                   
                
               "THIS does not belong to Mrs. Davis," said that lady sharply, as she returned the bow, "and do you tell Gen. Winthrop I say so." 
               "Who is that?" timidly asked Isadore. 
               "I don't know, somebody Gen. Winthrop has to wait on him." 
                
               Isadore, a little symmetrical girl, in a green riding dress trimmed with black velvet and buttons, and a sensitive child, she felt there was humiliation in the tone of Mrs. Davis' voice. One glance was sufficient to convey the idea, that oppression might blight and wither the young sap of her life, where a coarser nature might triumph. 
               "Oh, it is Linnie D'Alvon; his father is dead." 
               Isadore felt a strange sympathy spring up in her heart for him. Child that she was, having heard a lady at the hotel speak in astonishment, "that the son of the celebrated Dr. D'Alvon should be these, keeping a grocery for Gen. Winthrop." 
               Gen. Winthrop had turned his old homestead into a hotel in the thriving village. A long ell ran out with a passage, and handsome suite of apartments on either side, whilst on the right was a long suite of buildings and cabins, which followed in the wake, and was called "Winthropville." 
               In front of the hotel was a long piazza, above connected by a fancy bridge or passage across the street, uniting store-house and hotel-something like the Rialtos of Venice, save that no water flowed beneath, but a dark red mud street. 
               The store which was Linnie's particular arena, was painted a dark red, and connected with the grocery, which terminated in rather sombre hues. 
               The grocery was none of your "doggeries" of "half pint" notoriety; but a fashionable one, with provisions, fruits, and rarifications-fine liquors, enough to tempt an epicurean taste-oranges, and other tropical fruits lined the shelves and were scattered around in rare profusion. A little piazza bordered around, with a wooden bench on either side, whilst beyond was a little market house. Quaint little windows peeped out of the roof of the hotel, and looked over the large locusts which lapped their massive branches over the sign, whose dull, monotonous stare was at the court house, which occupied the centre of the Square. 
               The back piazza looked out on a shower of grapes and flowers; the honeysuckle twined and tossed its long festoons from beneath a mat of network, woven with shreds of the vine; the fragile wreath of cypress, as it tremulously clung to the poplar; the dense drapery of the box and myrtle, as it hung in a green fringe over the mound. 
               The house had been re-painted and undergone a series of ren ovation. All that wealth or art could devise had been put in requestion, in order to render the place attractive. 
                
               Mrs. Winthrop threw aside her thimble and patch work, and became the busy, bustling landlady. Sofas, piano, carpet, went through a series of dustings, for she was a model housekeeper, and glad of a field in which to exercise her genius in that particular. 
               Hetty was delighted with the noise and bustle incident to hotel keeping. 
               Mrs. Winthrop was exasperated at Sue's everlasting "needle-work," and the ladies "calling." She met the studied and deferential bow of Mrs. Davis in the parlor very haughtily, and when she again brushed through with her pet "Vic," whose misfortune it was to overturn a vase of flowers tastefully arranged by Hetty. 
               "Vic, you creature, you have overturned my vase! Ma, I want to kill that dog," said Hetty. 
               "No you won't!" said Mrs. Winthrop, "Linnie's mother sent him the pretty creature, and he would take to neither of them, but fancied me, so Linnie has now made me a present of Vic;" and she hurried out, followed by her especial favorite, Victoria. 
               The neighbors looked on the proceedings with professional jealousy. They had always stood in awe of the General, but now he had grown into a Colossus. He would soon take all the trade, all the custom, to his hotel; and great was the vengeance, that in due season was to be hurled on him. But it was ever with profound respect they returned the bluff salutation of the General, as he stalked "unmolested" through the promiscuous crowd. But, if thus openly defeated, they were, nevertheless, what is worse, his secret enemies, and each had their own particular receipt for bringing the General down, and they aroused all their energies, with an assiduity worthy of a better object. 
               His bounds were an annoyance. The shop keepers left their counters, and market boy his cart of vegetables, the smith his anvil, to come and see the fight, and the General, strange to say, laughed and passed on. And his goats, headed by one, raised an army, and walked into the dining room of the other hotel, and Dave Winthrop told it as a fine joke. 
               These, and other aggressions, were treasured up by the worthy villagers, who with a sad look turned to their respective avocations, and said despondingly, "Every thing General Winthrop has, is allowed to go at liberty." 
               But he finally met an antagonist in the person of a wealthy man, where he needed a firm champion, and the aid of all his troops. Now he was too ingenious to let it be known that his ambition led to a seat in the House of Representatives; but he was a great friend to the "poor;" the halt and maimed were the recipients of his glass. But matters had now arrived at a crisis, and the people were electrified by his boldly announcing himself a candidate. 
               It was then that all the fury of his antagonist broke forth, and threatened to overwhelm him. His opponent determined to have a seat, if the distribution of sundry presents in the country would avail anything. He had been an open and avowed enemy of the General and his proceedings. He publicly denounced all such, "his bar, a disgrace to the community; the buying votes for liquor, a stigma to the land." And had they all been like him, they would have had no need for the General's bar, for in the wide hall of his antique house, stood the "article," on no old fashioned, dusty, half worn furniture, but on a side-board of massive mahogany, which was in harmony with the elegant style of his house. And when the great gate swung open, and he stalked up the avenue, shaded with evergreens, and fragrant with the breath of japonica, we suppose he looked like a lord of olden times, for his step was firm, and he had a smattering of learning, and his carriage was such as we would expect from a titled personage. 
               Like Whig and Democrat, the village was divided, and the contending parties charged batteries furiously, only the General was more politic, he being possessed of more tact, would get Lennie to reconnoitre the premises, whilst he remained at home to drill the men. 
               Linnie, a youth of great discrimination, was his particular Secretary and gave promise of a shrewd young man. He was an especial favorite with Gen. Winthrop, from the fact of his ambition, which he had early shown in regard to himself, had he borne imposition, he would undoubtedly have sunk into insignificance; but on resenting an insult, the General recognized "the genuine ring of the true metal," and like Minerva, from the head of Jupiter, sprang into the genus homo of his imagination; for he, like Bonaparte of old, was a believer in destiny. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Night, sable goddess! from her ebon throne, 
                        In rayless majesty now stretches forth in 
                        Her leaden sceptre o'er a slumbering world. 
                        Silence how dread! and darkness how profound! 
                        Nor eye, nor listening ear, an object finds. 
                        Creation sleeps! 'Tis as the general pulse 
                        Of life stood still, and nature made a pause; 
                        An awful pause! prophetic of her end." 
                     
                   
                
               LINNIE on the edge of a crossway which overlooked the ravine and valley below, and a large spring, the pride of the family, as it gushed from the abrupt and craggy hill, pouring its wealth of water into the stream as it babbled by, then the long festoons of moss sporting in the coquetish bubbles of white sand. 
               The heavy tread of the wayfarer had ceased on the little rotten crossway, and darkness had gathered and hung like a pall over the zigzag pathway, and all was still, save the winds of winter, which came with a sweeping sound, then died into a low moan. A spur was broken from the plank, and it was ragged through the tramp of years. 
               'Tis night, "when the soft moon silvers over every object with her chaste pure light. In this hour of purity there seems a spell that submits the senses to the soul, and causes the heart to overflow with every good and benevolent feeling. It is a time that softens bitter grief, and soothes the wounded spirit into a holy and resigned sorrow." 
               And here sat Linnie musing on the crossway which had echoed to the footfall of all grades of society, from the decrepid old man to the prattling child; and here wealth had passed with pinched poverty, followed by a long train of misery and want. 
               His life in a sad phantasmagoria rose before him; for one day was an epitome in his life. The long confinement, the eternal tick, tick, in the meagre tramp of time. Memory was busy, and from the dark ocean of the past, its turbid waters had not closed over long, and long ago. 
               He thought of his mother, and a big tear gathered in his eye, and fell to her memory. Ah, it was a bitter tear, such a one as fell on crossing the paternal threshold, and then his own words, "Mother I don't want to go with that man!" 
               Never had he known the exquisite taste of his father. The friendly old walls stared on him with paternal affection, for on them was written ten an inexhaustible mine of treasure, the sunny hours of childhood. Here were specimens from the luxurious East, articles curiously and elaborately wrought, flowers from the laughing vine of Italy, to a fragile flower whose little petals seemed to shrink with an ebbing breath. Ah, those were bitter tears, shed from a fresh fountain, as he stalked out into the wide world alone. 
               Then came the death-bed scene, for the grass of two summers had strewn her grave. 
               The old homestead was fast crumbling into decay; delapidation and the  of time were lingering on the eves of the house; the somber old bricks where the hand of time had sprinkled the little green moss-like ivy had clambered to the tops of the chimneys; and the shrubbery my in a tangled mass. 
               The old homestead has passed into other hands, and a new one proudly stares in its stead. They did not respect the old tree, his favorite tree, for the axe was now laid to its old fantastic roots, and those ragged branches that had once lapped and embowered a canopy of leaves, more fanciful to his imagination than "art ever wove," or ingenuity devised, this lay in a tumbled mass, and its neighbor willow, with its long pendant branches, "green with the moss of years," this had witnessed his childish sports. 
               And thus he sat musing, until the darkness that had at first enveloped him had passed away, and the full bright moon had risen high in the heaven, and still he moved not, until a voice sounded in his ear, "Ah, Linnie, you of all the world I am in search of!" 
               Linnie looked up and immediately recognized Dr. Bayles. 
               The wind came with a sudden blast, which died in a sullen roar then rattled against the window panes. But was there no hungry,; starving one without? 
               The moonbeams danced merrily on an old apple tree near a store house fast falling into ruins; the great iron-barred window and door testified to its prison like and monotonous stare. Beyond was a little dilapidated cottage, the roof was fast decaying, and threatened to fall in a crumbled mass and mingle with the grey stone. A tasteful hand had once planted a vine that nearly covered an antique window, and the gable end; its skeleton now writhed in all the blast of winter. Into this abode they entered. On every object was written poverty and pale-faced want. 
               Dr. Bayles was undoing sundry little packages of wine, and other articles. Linnie could scarcely recognise in the Doctor the warm-hearted ed philanthropist, for he had never known the magnanimous heart concealed beneath that coarse exterior. 
               "This man," said the Doctor aside to Linnie, "once owned his coach and four, and refused the slight boon of a seat in it to Mrs. Marlby and child, when the Indians had destroyed their dwelling; this I know to be true." 
               The dying man reached out his hand and asked for a cup of coffee, but there was none to give. That indomitable pride prevented the mother and daughter from allowing their situation to be known, and even the rude dwelling which sheltered them now, belonged to Mr. Marlby; and yet their pride would have revolted at being told it was a charity home. 
               The Doctor beheld the drunkard's home a waste, his principle fortune spent for rum, his children beggard, and the miserable wreek of his once gifted and highly accomplished wife, for, alas! she to was a drunkard. "Truth, truth, thou art strange indeed!" muttered the Doctor. But the good Book does not teach us to interrogate how came they thus? 
               The man died, but his remains were not to be laid in the village, to mingle with his mother earth. 
               The priest was arrayed in his robe; the handsome coffin placed before him; then came the wail for the dead; the loud pealing tones of the organ echo through the lofty arches of the church. 
               The coffin is placed in the hearse, and a long train of carriages followed, and slowly the procession is seen wending its way to the cemetery. But who would suppose the corpse that grand funeral train was following had died in actual want of the necessaries of life? 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
                
                  
                      
                        "For truly I covet no gems from the sea, 
                        No rich carvened rubies I crave, love, of thee, 
                        No star-crown of jewels my brow to entwine, 
                        I ask but thy faith on my pathway to shine!" 
                     
                   
                
               IT was a fourth of July ball, and expected to be a magnificent affair for Winthropville "had gathered there her beauty and her chivalry." 
               The villagers were there, from the jewelled dame to the little girl in unobtrusive muslin, and many from the country, and some from the city were there. 
               The large folding doors turned on their hinges to allow the mazy dance to pass. Wreaths of flowers and evergreen were twined gracefully, and hung in long festoons from the ceiling. Delicious strains of music were wafted on the breeze, reminding one of oriental scenes. 
               In moody silence, Linnie leaned his head against a column, and realized with the poet, "Even in crowds I am alone!" Amid that merry throng, among but not with or of them, wrapt in a chain of thought, peopling it with creatures of his imagination. Some there was not vivacity enough, others too volatile, no poetry, no sentiment others, doing violence to all the graces Chesterfield built his platform of etiquette on, so unlike the gentle Isadore with her beautiful manners. 
               "And is it my father's fortunate you desire? How I loathe and abhor you! What, a man of talent, with a mind condensed within so small a compass, bury his genius, sink into the insignificance of a fortune seeker? humiliating thought! I could wish to have been born a beggar! Since then, he had never sought me out! no, no, it cannot be! Winton, loved, one is this the exchange for my young heart? ask a menial what I am worth. Homer, love, I have given you my heart; that love that comes only once in life. Life! what is it worth without you? a blank, a dreary waste! But oh, since it is my fortune you desire, leave, oh, leave me to my silent and secret misery. I could tread the Sahara alone, live shut out from all society. Society! where Homer is not there is no society! Oh, hated fortune, since it brings me such  woe! Can wealth bring happiness, or is there home where the heart is not? Oh, Homer! loved one! 
               But my proud heart must triumph; I will teach it to despise him; selfish, impious man, mean usurper of my peace. We have had pity for the Hindoo wife throwing herself on the funeral pile of her husband, and the cruel car of Jugernaut crushing its victims. But is there none to pity woman's crushed and blighted hopes? None; for none shall ever know my grief. And this goassmer dress of satin and lace, it has a tawdry look; methinks it is the symbol of a narrow mind." 
               "Open the door, Sue; why your Pa has been expecting you this half hour, and yet you are not dressed." 
               Sue, hid her face with a wet towel, and endeavored to keep back her tears. 
               "Sue, I want you to overlook Isadore and Hetty's toilette, and see if Betty dressed them right; you know how nice Mrs. Marlby is, and Hetty has been in the ball room this quarter of an hour. And Sue, I am so provoked; hereafter I shall learn to depend entirely on myself. Mrs. Davis has put the iceing on those square cakes in such a daub." 
               "Night will cover many deficiencies, Ma." 
               "Sue, do see if Isadore is dressed right." 
               Sue arranged Isadore's curls, and said, "You are a sweet girl, Isadore, and look very nice; go now." 
               When Sue entered the room all traces of grief had disappeared, save a moist velvety look about the eyes, which were large and blue; the hair combed plain in front with two Grecian braids looped up with blue streamers, which became her admirably, and she was again the brilliant, fascinating Sue-the girl that had so captivated the fastidious Winton. She recognized Winton conversing with Miss Vincent; she therefore swept very haughtily past him. 
               "Miss Sue, what has kept you so long," said Laura Vincent. 
               "Ma has been in my room entertaining me with a long list of her aggravations." 
               "And you have undergone a series of drilling in accordance with Ma's decorum," said Hetty, laughing. 
               But Sue must dance the first set with Winton, and by his exclusive attentions, call forth the indignation of other young gentlemen competitors for her hand in the dance. And when supper was announced, Winton handed her to the supper room. 
               "What will you have? No meats, ice cream? then a slice of this  pine apple? What, nothing!" 
               "Thank you, only a glass of lemonade. But this room is so warm. Ma has a love of a plant from France; I presume we can see it by moonlight;" and she led the way to the back piazza, where the plants had been removed from the green house, and were tastefully arranged in alphabetical order. 
               "It is certainly very pretty; but there is something I admire!" 
               "That, too, is an exotic." 
               "That is a magnificent boquet!" 
               "Yes, Laura gave me this." 
               "Will you not give me a rose bud?" 
               "I have half a mind to give you the boquet; since you admire it so much I'll lend it to you." 
               And the tall, fine looking man of genius, snatched a rose bud and twirled it in his fingers like a careless child. 
               "Only see how exquisitely formed are those petals," said Sue. 
                
               "But for its very perfection, it would be more beautiful," Winton replied. 
               It was a white rose, and Sue had unconsciously torn it apart, and its petals lay scattered at her feet. "Ah! it must soon have died," said she; for on its yellow stamens a little ingenious spider clung, and was knawing the heart. 
               "Ah, true to life," said Winton; "the vital principle must soon have become extinct. But what a beautiful view of the ravine and valley below!" 
                      
                        "'Tis sweet to hear the watch dog's honest bark, 
                        Bay deep-mouth'd welcome as we draw near home; 
                        'Tis sweet to know there is an eye will mark 
                        Our coming, and look brighter when we come." 
                     
                  
                
               "Can you appreciate those lines, Sue?" 
               "Ah yes, as your sentiments." 
               "Byron would have immortalized his name, if he had never written other than those four lines. But Sue, I love-I madly love you! It is with you to decide my destiny. On you depends my every hope of happiness! With you, methinks I can climb the highest pinacle of fame! It is with you to blight and destroy my hopes and expectations forever! Sue, dear Sue, you have acknowledged you love me! Say when may I claim your hand?" 
               "Never, sir!" 
               Winton stood aghast, for there was something in her tone and look that startled him, as he said coldly, "May I ask to what I am  for this sudden estrangement?" 
               "A lady may have many reasons for rejecting a gentleman." 
               "And does the man live that dare impeach my honor?" His lips were compressed, and his dark eye flashed, and his arm was raised as thought to grasp his sword. 
               "None, I presume, 'dare' impeach the honor of Mr. Winton!" 
               "Since it pleases Miss Winthrop to answer metaphorically, if she wishes to return to the ball room, I will take pleasure in waiting on her." 
               "Miss Winthrop is certainly very much obliged to Mr. Winton, but will dispense with his attention." 
               "I wish you a very good evening." 
               Sue bowed haughtily; but even while he went, her eyes followed him-even then, how she wished to recall him, but when he crossed the passage, and she saw he was gone, then, and not till then, she turned away, and with a heart so crushed and broken, sought the solitude of her chamber; for no eye should see, or ever know her secret misery. Whilst Winton went on, muttering "fool that I was-an intrigue-an adept in duplicity-fascinating Sue-was it a syrene tongue that so infatuated me, led me on to make a fool of myself-and this is woman-and thus must I ever believe her to be until ordealised." 
               The music was suspended, and Linnie stood on the piazza, in the dense shade of a large locust, listening to the pit-pat on the square rendered hard by the everlasting foot-fall. Imagination, like the moon'-beams into the cell of the prisoner, had stolen into his heart, and its whisperings were of love, fame, and happiness. "This dull, monotonous life, which is so insipid and altogether unsuited to the disposition of man. Too many years of my life have already been wasted in this Russian-like servitude! I will go, and that immediately! Clarence younger than I, already in college! Yes, and I'll go, and that to-morrow!" 
               "Come, Linnie," said Sue, interrupting his reverie, "Will you chaperone me to the ball room?" 
               As the gallant Linnie offered her his arm, she muttered between her teeth, "Now vengeance, I am thine again!" and she soon joined in the mazy dance, her eyes looking beautifully bright, and blue as ever. 
               As Linnie turned towards the door, he met Isadore. "Where have you been? I have been looking for you this great while." 
               "In the parlor, reading a letter from aunty. Miss Sallie Marlby is coming home, and I am going home too; you may be sure I am glad to get away from Mrs. Davis and her studied bows, and that dingy  house, with its skeleton benches; but I am so sorry to leave you Linnie; but you will come often to Marlby Villa?" 
               "But I am going to leave." 
               "To leave here!" and she cast an imploring look on him. He saw, and did recognize at a glance the deep meaning her innocent words conveyed. 
               Linnie left Gen. Winthrop with only a slight remumeration for his long years of toil, for he could compel the General to pay him nothing; but having sufficient to defray all contingent expenses, he, before deciding on his future course, determined to pay a visit long solicited by his uncle. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
                
                   
                     
                        "No man is nobler born than another, unless he is born with better abilities and a more amiable disposition."
                      
                     SENECA. 
                   
                
               "FATHER, I am sorry to disobey you, but I cut his acquaintance; my old room mate; my only intimate friend at West Point;" said the impetuous youth. "I pledge my word-nay more-my fortune, for his integrity. Why do you persist in those vulgar prejudices so unworthy of you? I am aware you do not like the family, but he has not only all the elements of a gentleman, but what is more-the principle." 
               "A spendthrift-an impostor-a forger-a-a-!" and for words the worthy Major stopped in his vehement voiciferations. 
               "He has been cruelly deceived, and treachery-oh, how false! the future will reveal a scene so dark." 
               "He is the deceiver, and intends drawing you into his vortex and whirlpool of dissipation; he, in order to get the money, was willing his name should go with yours on the note." 
               "Uncle," interposed Linnie, "Julius is right, Warren is a gentleman." 
               "Indeed." 
               "Father, I am emphatic; it is false! I am aware his father and you differ in political opinion." 
               "Don't mention him to me; the son of Isaac Warren making pretensions, is an absurdity for which I have no language to express my contempt." 
               "And pray what is your standard of a gentleman, since excellence has no merit in your eyes? and in the personification of 'Vanity;' you have certainly lost your 'pride,' for yours is a theory without practice." 
               "Leave my house, you obstinate, self-willed boy; never touch a dollar of mine, although I had all the wealth of the Indies." 
               "But, father"-the rich planter waved his hand-" Will you not hear me?" 
               "Remonstrance is vain; I am imperative! Let the gray dawn see you beyond this, once your home!" and the pompous Major D' Alvon von waved his hand in token of silence, and bowed himself out of his own apartment. 
               And Linnie, possessing his uncle's independence, yet noble, generous Linnie! stood watching the retreating footsteps of that uncle, who boasted that "his ancestors had never been contaminated by one drop of plebeian blood mingling with theirs." Friendship, to him, was filligree work wrought in deception. Yet he loved-if one so sordid could love-Julius, his pride, his boast! 
               Linnie, indignant at his uncle's extravagant threats in regard to Julius, determined on leaving. He had now decided. He felt it was an epoch in his life. He had touched the spring of existence, and the vault, where future hopes lie buried, stood open, and pale phantoms of the past, clad in the habiliments of death, chased before him in rapid succession. 
               Was it an age he lived in those little moments? He mused, "I am too republican for his aristocratic ideas; those imperial Counts, I hold in supreme contempt; with my sword, I could put those veterans to flight, he boasts so largely of; but he yet shall be proud of the name of Linnie D'Alvon. I will be a statesman! Ah, it is more powerful than sword, when the destiny of a nation trembles on a word! Even wealth must bow her sordid head at the shrine of genius! Riches have wings, but the fountain of intellect cannot be swept away by the rude billows of adversity. Ah, an orator I will be! How did the ingenious Antony stir up the Romans to revenge the death of Csar! and I remember the Latin prophecy of Washington: 'Far across the ocean will arise a hero, who by his council and arms, shall deliver his country from the slavery by which she was oppressed. This shall he do under favorable auspices; and O! how much more admirable will he be than our Brutus and Camillus!'" 
               Linnie cast a withering look not unmingled with scorn, towards the chamber of his uncle. As he crossed the threshold the door was ajar, the segar had unconsciously fallen from his fingers, and the journal of the day lay crumpled on the carpet; the coal in the grate had gone out, and the lamp threw its sickly rays over some antique busts, which wore a sombre look, quite in unison with the occupant of the room. He knew his aunt mostly kept her own apartment, and left him to the luxury of his Havana and evening siesta. A light step and a gentle voice now disturbed this leaden reverie-"Major, is it possible you intend to banish your son?" 
               The Major had been puzzling his brain in order to find a feasible excuse for recalling his harsh words to his son, without sinking in his own and that son's estimation, but all to no purpose. He picked up the segar, the journal, took a pinch of snuff, made a great effort, and with perfect nonchalance, said, "You have heard my decision; I am imperative." 
               Julius, nothing dismayed, but naturally of a very buoyant spirit, was rather pleased than otherwise with his banishment, for he intended visiting certain estates in the West Indies belonging to his mother. He well knew his father's impetuosity, but his mother's tears, and her warm kiss on his cheek quite unmanned him, and severely rebuked his levity. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Thou seest that youth just entering the world; all is bright before him, as he passes along, gathering the Summer's flowers. Why that sunny smile that wreathes his lip? I am his companion; I dwell in his glowing cheek and kindling eye; I hover round him in dreams of future bliss, and sorrow is unthought of."
                      
                     THE SONG OF HOPE. 
                   
                
               MARLBY VILLA was situated on a high hill, with a beautiful view of the surrounding country, whilst a stream wound leisurely around the craggy hills. 
               Sallie Marlby had returned, and her entrance party was to come off with great eclat. Then came the bustle and confusion incident to party giving, which somewhat interrupted the even tenor of quiet Mrs. Marlby's way. His father having sustained the family dignity by conforming to all old observances in a way that would have put to shame any master of ceremonies; having always escorted his mother to breakfast, a ceremony which the present Mrs. Marlby quietly dispensed with by seating herself at the head of the table before the bell rang. 
               His ideas were like the fixed stars, and how any one could differ one iota from him, was past his comprehension. But, like Johnson and other great minds, he was slow of thought; but when once fixed on a point, he was sure he was right; for instance, if from his observatory he saw a certain point, and it looked a certain way, he was sure he was right, and knew he could not be mistaken. He, like Lady Charlton's maid, "was positively quite insensible to heat or cold," and always the first thing he did of a morning was to consult the thermometer. Besides he was a model of morality, and rather severe in discipline towards his son, of whom, in his family pride, he was very ambitious, if not to say fond. The son, quite the reverse, was very fond with but very little submission-which soon terminated in the son gaining quite an ascendancy over the father. But Mr. Marlby did not trouble himself about other people's affairs, just so they did not trespass on his cotton fields. He was very Democratic, and did not see how any one could be a Whig-"he had asked them for their principles, and they did not have any"-they hung like Mokana's bride, just where he was. He thought a man must be born with a fortune, and whoever was indebted to genius for wealth or fame, must certainly be an usurper. 
               Sallie stood before the massive mirror that reflected herself, and although her pride would have revolted at the mere thought of vanity of person, a smile of satisfaction stole over her-never had she appeared to better advantage, for never had she been better pleased with herself. The glossy braids of her black hair was looped up with pearls. Her dress was white of more antique silk, with pink crape over it. She was resplendantly beautiful with her dark eyes and long silken lashes, yet, in the perfect contour of her face, this was no harsh expression. She would have been a model for a Greek sculptor, as she now stood before the mirror; the perfect position of her hands, a single diamond sparkled on her finger. 
               "Oh, Miss Sallie," said Isadore, "There is such a sweet lady below from Paris, dressed in a rose colored silk with flounces of black lace. She is the most fascinating person I ever saw; she came with Mrs. Vincent." 
               "Her sister. I am quite anxious to see her." 
               "And Miss Harlow is very pretty!" 
               "And who is she?" 
               "Major Harlow's sister. She is from Philadelphia." 
               "I did not know her; I had private lessons, and thus avoided becoming contaminated by the vulgar; her brother is some low down adventurer, I guess!" and Sallie curled her beautiful lip in scorn. 
               Isadore felt the blood rush to her temples as she thought of her father, the "hated adventurer," and replied, "His father is wealthy." 
               "Nonsense, Isadore! wealth is nothing in Philadelphia, where they depend entirely on family. He should remember whom he married. Oriana is an aristocracy of the people's immediate creation, and the belle in prospective this season; when I imagine she, like a sensible girl, married the first chance, though I believe she pretends to two others-neither very brilliant establishments, I presume. But I know her origin, and shall reconsider the matter before I patronize her, notwithstanding her brilliant alliance." 
               "Her mother's house was the mot fashionable in the city; the most splendid dinings, and the best parties of the season were given by her." 
               "Sister Kate, I presume, patronized munificently." 
               "Come, Sallie," said kind Mrs. Marlby. 
               Sallie tossed her head coquetishly, as she replied, "I am almost ready to make my grand debut, and hope I will be able to say with Csar-"Veni; Vidi; Vici!" 
               "One parlor is nearly filled," said Mrs. Marlby. "Mrs. Harlow has already come, and we shall have another bride!" 
               "In this bridal dress of course; and I do regret my own incapacity for appreciating such a brilliant display of white silks, and Brussels lace, as these fashionables will be pleased to present; as Grey has beautifully said, 
                      
                        'Full many a flower is born to blush unseen 
                        And waste its sweets on a desert air.' 
                     
                   That is the first poetry I ever learned-" 
               Mrs. Marlby interrupted Sallie, by reminding her it was time to go down." 
               "That," said Sallie, "reminds me of a ball in the mountains, where the people went before sun down, when, who ever thought of going until nine?" 
               When Sallie entered the room, she was alive to the sensation her presence created, and she sank gracefully into a seat near Linnie, whose dark hair and striking appearance would have rendered him attractive any where; his hair was black as the raven's wing, and shaded a finely polished brow-the impress of genius. The enthusiasm having somewhat subsided, Linnie ventured to pay his respects to the accomplished Sallie, for it seemed to be the particular motive for which all had that evening assembled, to see which could out vie the other in dress, and politeness to the fascinating Sallie. 
               "Ah, Linnie, I am glad to see you, and be home again; I met with your neice, Miss Jessup, at New York." 
               "Ah, indeed." 
               "I was perfectly infatuated with Grace; she bears a striking resemblance to yourself, and is certainly very beautiful." 
               "Thank you! Miss Sallie." 
               "We traveled from New York to Niagara together, and had such a delightful time; indeed, I was very loath to part with her." 
               Linnie saw others were waiting to pay their respects to Sallie, and politely withdrew to a window where sat Isadore, coquetishly playing with the tassel of the magnificent curtain, which was in harmony with the ostentatious apartment. Never had she looked more beautiful, as the whispering breeze stole through her long brown tresses and kissed her lovely cheek; her eyes seemed to have borrowed the brilliancy of her companion; he would have ventured a compliment, but the words died on his lips. They went out on the balcony, he picked up a boquet of flowers, doubtless lost by some demoiselle in the promenade; he offered her a rose bud with its emblem; some one was playing on the guitar, and they paused to listen; afar off was seen the dark outline of the stream shaded by dense overhanging foliage. "How sweetly," said Linnie in his own peculiar soft voice: 
                      
                        "How sweetly does the moon-beam smile 
                        To-night on yonder leafy isle! 
                        Oft, in my Fancy's wanderings, 
                        I've wished that little isle had wings, 
                        And me within its fairy bowers, 
                        Where wafted off to seas unknown, 
                        Were not a pulse should beat but ours, 
                        And we might live, love, die alone! 
                        Far from the cruel and the cold." 
                     
                  
                
               Sallie's standard was based on whatever "looked well," consequently, she was very polite, but haughty to her former intimates; for on her brow was written-"You are not to presume on my former condescension! You are a dynasty of my own creation, whom I can and am at liberty to crush at will"-therefore, she kept aloof. Her contribute to the half plebeian crowd, that her Democratic brother had been condescending enough to invite? No! 
                
               "But, Frank, you are no office-seeker, that you are to bow to every plebeian whom you chance to meet!" 
               "But we are not in aristocratic England." 
               "Neither, sir, do you wish a seat in Parliament amongst the booby lords." 
               "Why don't you go to Paris, Sallie?" 
               "I want to go to London, marry His Grace, the Duke of-, but he must be a duke of my own creation." 
               "Let me introduce you to Winton, he is very interesting." 
               Her sublime majesty was gracious enough to permit the introduction, and was amiability itself, altogether at variance with her former nonchalance. 
               Several couples were promenading on the balcony, and Sallie, with a very sweet smile, accepted the arm of Winton, and joined them. In passing and repassing they met a trio, consisting of Major and Mrs. Harlow and the elegant and accomplished lady from Paris. This led to a conversation on France and Louis Napoleon. Winton remarked, that "he was certainly a great diplomatist." 
               "All Europe, I believe, will acknowledge him that." 
               "But you admire the character of the uncle!" 
               "I certainly admire the moral courage and perseverance characteristic of him, and esteem him as highly as I can any man without principle; and regret he had no better motive in view than self-aggrandizement, placing a crown on his own head, and conquering kingdoms for his brothers." 
               "You are severe, Miss Marlby; but you will admit his genius!" 
               "In attacking England through Egypt, his genius was certainly very remarkable, but not at all praiseworthy; I admire that spirit of the English, when all Europe had acknowledged him Emperor, England refused to recognize the ambitious Corsican." 
               Winton very adroitly changed the subject by introducing the name of Josephine. "You doubtless remember her fortune, told by the old negress at her home in the West Indies!" 
               "Ah, yes; and how prophetic-that she should be Queen of France." 
               "But you are a proficient in music, I believe!" 
               Sallie's fingers swept lightly the strings of the guitar. "Your favorite, Mr. Winton?" 
               "Anne Laurie, if you please." 
                
               As the rich musical voice fell on his ear, he thought it without a parallel; for an instant he thought of Sue, then her duplicity. 
               "Why, Miss Sallie, you have quite astonished the natives by your extraordinary performance." 
               "Indeed," was reiterated good humoredly, for instinct taught her to be very civil to Dr. Bayles. 
               "It is a great pity you kept them waiting so long; what detained you?" 
               "Waiting for my uncle to accompany me home." 
               "Linnie, you think too much; such men are dangerous." 
               "Ah, Doctor! I remember your passion for Shakspeare; I think you very candid but not at all sincere." 
               "There comes Ma," said Laura. 
               "Yes," said Mrs. Vincent, "I like a small sociable!" 
               Mrs. Vincent was rather a singular looking woman, with a red and black feather in her hair; added to her other accomplishments she was a Spiritualist-set a plate, knife and tork, for her diseased husband. She would not acknowledge to the character of a sybil, but dwelt on the past, present, and future, as her impression. 
               "Mr. D'Alvon, my impression of you is, you are a genius. The warm skies of a Southern sun look down on a home amid the orange and citron groves, whose nodding boughs are to the song of a limpid stream on whose dancing wave is borne the luxuries of the Indies, and her spicy breath once fanned your own home; laden with the wealth of the tropics, the murmur of shells, the exquisite touch of music; paintings, rare and curious, specimens from classic Greece to sunny Italy; and the breath of fashion, all beguiled the moment. Then a great red mansion stares in the sun of the Crescent City. Ah! Madame and Monsieur are the courted and admired. Ah, it is home again! in a city that traces its origin more than a century back, and where the Savannah sweeps hurriedly past. One lingers at the shrine of Bacchus! A demoiselle with a brow of peerless beauty, lofty in thought and boundless in imagination, plights her troth at the altar of Hymen. A loved one! the sands of life are wearing away! the cold, cold grave receives him! The rustling winds chant his dirge o'er the tall trees! Cypress-sad emblem of the past-waves in the whispering breeze! Echo presides in sullen silence! Loneliness, proud in her desolation, stalks imperceptibly over the dim and shadowy past. Contemplate the brilliancy of the light that has gone out, but the halo that encircles him remains to posterity. One has crossed the paternal threshold; he casts one look: it is a long, loving look-ah! it is on his mother! and it is his last! for she died while the kiss was yet warm on his lips!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Madam, I was thinking with what manners 
                           I might safely be admitted." 
                        
                      
                     ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Though you and I, who eruditely know 
                           To separate the elegant and low." 
                        
                      
                     BYRON. 
                   
                
               "WHO is it?" 
               "Mrs. Harlow." 
               Sallie threw aside Bonaparte's history, rang the bell, muttering, "I do not quite agree with Abbot, in thinking Bonaparte a saint; I presume that is the source from whence Mr. Winton derived his ideas." However, she was not long in making her toilette, but went down in full dress to receive her intimate friend. 
               "Oriana, I am happy to see you," said Sallie, kissing her. 
               "I hope I have not called too soon?" 
               "Oh, by no means; I have already received several calls, and I am half offended that you should think of using ceremony with me." 
               "How have you spent the time since the party?" 
               "In quite an unromantic manner, I assure you; ransacking the house from cellar to garret, and walking over the grounds; but positively everything has the same old monotonous stare it wore ten years ago." 
               Mrs. Marlby was contrasting Sallie's pretty face with Mrs. Harlow, who would have been very beautiful with her raven hair and finely penciled brows, so delicate as to be scarcely perceivable, had it not been for that blank expression-the total want of native intellect, without which, to Mrs. Marlby, there could be no real beauty. She was startled by Mrs. Harlow turning abruptly and addressing her with, "Major Harlow says Sallie is the best dressed lady he ever saw; she has such excellent taste in the combination of her colors." 
                
               "Ah! quite a compliment to Sallie; having resided in Philadelphia, and spent much time in our Southern cities, he is consequently a judge of ladies' costume." 
               "What's that you are saying of me?" querried Sallie. 
               "Perhaps you will think me a flatterer." 
               "By no means, I am not susceptible to flattery; neither do I think Major Harlow would condescend to administer it." 
               "He says you are the best dressed lady he ever saw." 
               "Thank you,' has gone out of fashion, but I am certainly obliged to the major; but if you will come with me to my room, I will show you something pretty." 
               "Where did you get those fans?" 
               "In New York; they were made by the Indians near Niagara; are they not pretty?" 
               "Exquisitely beautiful!" 
               "I have so much sympathy for the Indians, and have had serious qualms of conscience in regard to their situation. Gonzale was once the home of an Indian chief; that rude structure so forcibly reminds me of that fallen chieftain. I feel melancholy every time I go there. Methinks I can see the dark-eyed daughter pleading for the home of her grey-haired sire, so beautifully illustrated in that old tradition." 
               Mrs. Harlow raised her eyes to Sallie's face, with a kind of vague wonder, as she replied-"The Indians were paid for their land." 
               "Ah, but not half their value. I can say with Hooper, 'And where are these speculators now?-these lords of the soil-the men of dollars-the fortune makers, who bought with hundreds what was worth thousands-they' to whom every revolution of the sun brought a redublication of their wealth-where are they now, and what are they now?' They have been smitten by the retributive hand of justice!" 
               "This is very beautiful," said Mrs. Harlow, looking at some Vallinciennes lace, which lay carelessly in a work basket at her elbow. 
               "Yes, I bought that on Canal street; the fashionables do not now confine themselves to Broadway, as formerly. Only think, Oriana, I had an acquaintance at the North, who dressed in her bridal dress and bonnet, much to my mortification, and the astonishment of all genteel people, and made an especial call to me on a fashionable street, where I was entertaining a parlor full of company." 
               Sallie always managed her little personal speeches with a degree of diplomatic skill that Louis Napoleon might have envied. 
               Notwithstanding the stupidity of Mrs. Harlow, she felt the blood rush to her cheeks, for dull as she was, she did comprehend this speech of the ingenious Sallie, and her beautiful bonnet and delicate colored silk sank into insignificance, and she muttered something about a new bonnet she had ordered, which, for some unaccountable reason, had been delayed. 
               "But we are intimates." Sallie's lips parted beautifully, and that smile re-assured Mrs. Harlow. 
               "Whom do you suppose had the assurance to call on me?" 
               "Indeed, I cannot imagine," replied the much humbled Mrs. Harlow. 
               "Young Davis! He is strictly plebiean; and since he returned from California, where, by the bye, he made a considerable fortune, which is his passport into good society-for I am sure he has no other qualification; he is the most disgusting creature I ever saw; besides, I have such a contempt for the mushroon; I positively cannot tolerate such creatures. Doubtless you remember what a propensity I have for the ridiculous! His sister, Miss Davis, was kind enough to 'call' with him, in a buggy made to order, I presume. Before coming down, I laughed outright at the ridiculous figure they cut coming up the Avenue, and felt strongly inclined to recommend them to visit the world's fair in London, and afterwards place themselves in Barnum's Museum, thinking, thereby they might realize a very handsome sum-her so very large-him so very small-both so very awkward! But this visit, like Barebone's parliament, did not' last long. But he endeavored to explain a scene at the North, strictly oriental, and with which I was familiar," and was expatiating on the magnificent style in which it was fitted up, the lights;-then he came to a stand still, in what he intended for a grand display of elocution. I sympathised with him exceedingly, but could not encourage his egregious vanity by giving him any assistance whatever, but waited patiently to hear the conclusion; at length he finished his miserable attempt at description; I then informed him. I was quite familiar with the scene. He afterwards asked me to play, and judging from appearances, I supposed he had a very delicate perception of the grand and beautiful; and so I played Princess Henrietta's waltz for him, which he admired exceedingly, and remarked that he had just as soon hear me sing as Jenny Lind, only for the name. I knew that was not original with him; and said I, Oh, that reminds me of-"Dr. Bayles," said he; and I do assure you, it was with difficulty I could refrain from laughing! And Miss Davis, in conversation about Church matters, remarked that the Church of England was founded by Henry VIII. Yes, said I, I noticed that in a late paper! All due respect having been paid that brilliant couple, I was glad to retire to the privacy of my own little boudoir." 
               "I," said Mrs. Harlow, "should be happy to have her on my visiting list; I opine there must be a deal of romance connected with her history." 
               "You remember the overseer's wife, whom we used to laugh at so much. Some one neglected her once, and she said, 'I just think myself as good as anybody, if I am poor.'" 
               At this moment a servant entered with a card. Sallie smiled scornfully as she said, "not at home." 
               "Who is it?" 
               Sallie read, "Mrs. J. M. Maynard, Irene Bell." That is a pretty name, and beautifully engraved,-I acknowledge its true Northern origin. Say to her I am seriously indisposed, quite a nervous attack occasioned by her calling." 
               "Oh, do not let me prevent your seeing this illustrious person," said Mrs. Harlow, rising to go. 
               "Have a seat, Oriana, don't think of leaving; I am not going down to see the hotel-keeper's daughter." 
               "Say, rather the merchant's wife, now." 
               "It's just the same; I class Doctors, Lawyers, Merchants, and Mechanics all together." 
               "In England, a Lawyer is considered a very contemptible person." 
               "They are considered so nearer home than England," said Sallie who very skillfully, with the point of her penknife, took up the card and tossed it, not in the card basket, but on the bureau, and resumed the conversation. 
               When Mrs. Harlow arose to depart, Sallie accompanied her down stairs; in passing by the music room, they looked in where was seated Isadore at the piano, with piles of packed up music, and the governess, a little woman with grey eyes and a kind of dingy, light hair, which hung in loose curls in front, was standing near with a gold pencil, very intent, pointing out sundry 'rests, quavers, and demisemiquavers in a very Vulcan kind of manner. "Miss Warren." said Isadore, I am ready to give up; I cannot learn this difficult piece." 
               "But you can and must," said she, flourishing her pencil in a very ostentatious manner. 
               "How can I, when I have no ear for music," said she, despondingly. 
                
               "Miss Warren, do let Isadore off this evening; she and I are going to take one of our long walks." 
               "Oh, Miss Sallie, I shall love you always for this dear little bit of interference," said Isadore, as they left the room; not, however, before Mrs. Harlow had received a stately bow from the little governess, who did not like her; she knew not why, but just did not like her. 
               In the hall they met Mr. Marlby, who, after drawing off his glove, shook the hand of Mrs. Harlow very cordially, saying, "Mrs. Harlow, I am glad to see you again at Marlby Villa; I shall expect the Major and yourself to dine with us to-morrow; I have just dispatched a note to him and Winton. I have a present of a dozen bottles of old wine. 
               "You may certainly expect us." 
               Sallie's eyes brightened at the name of Winton. 
               Mr. Marlby handed Mrs. Harlow to her carriage. Mrs. Marlby looked grave and said nothing, somewhat to the chagrin of Sallie, who stood in considerable awe of her, not that she would severely reprimand her; had she have done this, it would have undoubtedly aroused a spirit of revolt; her organ of combativeness being fully developed. But there was a persuasive goodness about her, an amiability, a smoothness of temper which Sallie was obliged to respect; and the affection so tenderly lavished on her, Sallie highly appreciated, when she would allow herself time to think. 
               "Sallie, why did you deny your visitor?" 
               "For very good reasons, of course." 
               "But is it right to act thus?" 
               "Perhaps not, but I am not a professor of religion." 
               "Very true, and I regret it very much, yet I rejoice that religion is of no such; were you possessed of this high and holy principle, your feelings would revolt at refusing one, though clothed in rags. We are naturally social beings, and intercourse with society strengthens our principles." 
               "Sister Kate, I appreciate your sentiments; I respect and admire this high and holy origin, and were all governed by such a principle, I would respect the veriest beggar on the high road more than the haughtiest bejeweled dame that every entered your parlor. Had Irene Bell, alias, Mrs. Maynard, come in a less ostentatious style, I should certainly have received her, but such a profusion of jewels, and flounces and newly imported airs, as I should expect from her, besides I wish to be excused from tolerating such coarse, vulgar, people as the Bell's; I like persons of refinement; I don't care for wealth or station." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "I would not check the nobly good, 
                           Who, joy diffusing, widely roam; 
                           But I would whisper, if I could, 
                           Look round, for there are wrongs at home; 
                           And voices, though but feeble, call 
                           On Heaven-on thee-on me-on all!" 
                        
                      
                     BOURING. 
                   
                
               IN an upper room of the Exchange Hotel, with some charcoal and a chafing dish, sat Dr. Bayles, whose accomplishments were not confined to the medical, neither mineral, nor botanical order. From the plant of China to a little tendril creeping along the plains of Mexico he knew its origin-all rare and beautiful exotics, blushing fruits, leaves, cattle, creeping things-animate or petrified-had yielded their family history to him. 
               "Bring me a glass of water-a towel-some more charcoal! wipe off that marble! hand me that loadstone! If any visitor calls-do you hear?-I am not in!" 
               The servant obeyed. The chemist tried again; but, somehow, the experiment would not work. Dressing himself in a half worn suit, a talma, cap, and a huge pair of whiskers-the very personification of a man cut by his acquaintance, scarcely recognizing himself in his incognita-he emerged from the apartment, where a broom would have added to its nicety considerable-as the long gossamer cobwebs stared at him. "Is Dr. Bayles in?" enquired this worthy of the servant. 
               "Not in sir." 
               He was relieved of a mountain of doubt. Arriving at the "Lecture Room"-it being "gratis," the room was crowded-the Chemist-was in "full blast," raising his voice far above the din of confusion and smoke which gave effect to the scene. Dr. Bayles seemed swallowing it all-his lofty genius towered far above mediocrity-and he was starting from the bench in the enthusiasm of the moment. A friendly hand was laid on him, "D'Alvon!" and the somnambulist awoke to the mortification of being recognized. "O, those horrid mistakes! oh, ever thus! Just at the pinnacle of fame, with my own hand I overthrow the monument I have so perseveringly raised!" But he did not despond, and they were soon in perfect confidence. But he, like most great men, was superstitious; for; just then, a bat flitted past them in luxurious independence-and he was fearful it was a bad omen. 
               They were soon tete a tete in Dr. Bayles' office. The poets, patriots, warriors, and the great men that America had produced, were discussed. "Nothing," said he enthusiastically, "can exceed the fire and animation glowing in the pages of Homer's Iliad! Just imagine you are stepping back three thousand years into the remotest antiquity." 
               "I quite agree with you, Doctor, and think of it, as Byron did of Milton's Drama; it certainly has the merit of length, if none other." 
               Finally, the conversation turned on Chemistry, "Suppose you try an experiment, D'Alvon." 
               "Is that satisfactory?" 
               "I could do that no better myself-that was a lucky hit! thought the Dr. Multum-in-parvo! What, to the Doctor, seemed such a prodigious feat, was simple to Linnie, for he had often seen his father make the experiment. 
               The cry of fire resounded on the midnight air! The flames hissed their forked tongue and glared wildly with their demoniac hiss! The people hurrying to and fro, knocking with their elbows, each other-then commenced the throwing out of the windows sundry mirrors, pitchers, &c., whose hoarse voice sounded on the pavement, as they fell with a crash, in all the music of broken crockery. On, on-the flames rolled; nor stopped, until buildings that rose up in majestic grandeur in the morning sun, were now a smouldering heap of ruins-prophetic of earthly greatness, they fell with a mighty crash! 
               While this scene was going on, there was another, in an old dilapidated building, in a different part of the city. 
               Mrs. Barnes sat like one turned to stone-no sigh, no murmur, broke from her quivering lip-she prayed not only for the poor, but for the careless rich, whom yonder rolling flames were bearing to poverty. 
               Dr. Bayles entered this abode of squalid poverty, and gazed on the woman in the rickety chair, her wild and haggard look the impersonation of the struggle within. 
               "Two," said an old woman, "have want and inattention hurried away prematurely, and now, another is going fast." 
               "Can it be possible," said Dr. Bayles, "and this in Protestant America! leave a picture like this to be illustrated by the Old World; transport the eye to the out-skirts of London-leave misery and starvation to Ireland! But this land of promise to the millions of foreigners that throng her wharves and crowd her cities! 'America ca!' there is magic in that name, read in the glistening eye of the foreigner; and here, where the sunny South wind sweeps over a land of orange and citron groves-where the song of birds may lull the voluptuary! Here I have money," and the silver rattled in hoarse mockery like the clods falling on her darling child! What cared she for money in that moment! there was no musical sound in its hoarse rattle, as the trembling light threw its ghastly rays on her dying child. 
               As Dr. Bayles was driving slowly through the promiscuous crowd that thronged the street; amid the din and confusion, Linnie D'Alvon disfigured with dust and smoke, greeted him: 
               "Ah, Doctor, your office is in ruins. We tried in vain to save your books and curiosities; receive my condolements." 
               "Humph," laughed the Doctor; "I shall get a new one by it. I the loss great?" 
               "Considerable! Dr. Darville lost his watch and Sunday clothes.' 
               "The loss cannot be great; property mostly insured, except the brandy-however, from the looks of that fellow, I think his is insured-he seems to be beautifully drunk. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Some have accused me of a strange design 
                           Against the creed and morals of the land, 
                           And trace it in this poem every line, 
                           I don't pretend I quite understand." 
                        
                      
                     BYRON. 
                   
                
               THE sun was just setting behind the hills, and struggling through a canopy of leaves, that embowered a quaint old tree, from which fantastic wreathes of moss were tossed on the summer air. 
               Linnie dipped his tapering fingers into the brook as it babbled by. He threw a pebble into the stream, as had been his wont in childhood; listened to the poetical murmur, as he watched its impediment. "How like life," said he, "how much there is on the surface!" His reverie was interrupted by two little children passing. 
               "Mother is sick, and we have no bread," said the little girl to her brother. 
               Here was no dissimulation, and Linnie gave her his last dollar. 
               She spoke not, but plucked a violet from the mossy bank, and with a look more eloquent than words, gave him the delicate little flower. 
               "Faithfulness! true emblem of the now sweet child-no deceitful smile plays on thy rosy lips-truth, truth is written on thy brow and laughs merrily in thine eyes." 
               Linnie had invested in speculation, and realized a very handsome sum-this encouraged him to invest more largely, and he lost. Then followed a presentation of a regular routine of "bills." 
               Meanwhile the epoch was still in the distance! Whilst his money had all dwindled away, he had studied hard and was in joyous expectation of the event he should hail with rapture-show to the world specimens of his genius-unfurl his banner, Excelsior! He now seemed standing a mighty column in the wreck of departed glory, watching his own star waning in the distance. Such a chaos of thought! what bitter stagnation! He cast his eye to the splendid mansion of Marlby, that towered far above him-now, at an old negress chanting some plaintive air, as she wended her way to one of the cabins in the environs of the Villa. Memory was busy and led him through a long vista of the past, and a blight and mildew seemed setting on his hopes. He thought of the rubbish in the waste of life-at the mistake of Devant-there being two widows of the same name, he, aiming at the "rich," married the "poor." Two persons passed by, whom he recognized at a glance as Winton and Dr. Darville: 
               "Ah, Linnie, do not attribute it to any neglect, it was an oversight." 
               Oh, bitter humiliating thought! "He acknowledged an insult from Dr. Darville," whilst all the blood of D'Alvon rushed to his temples, and a bitter smile played around his mouth as he bowed haughtily; very much like a man who entertained serious intentions of challenging his opponent, as he remarked, "This is a magnificent scene, worthy indeed of a Hogarth's pencil." 
               "Son, why so pensive?" said an old man, who, too, was enjoying the exhilarating breeze. "Afflictions are in mercy sent! I build my expectations on no earthly grandeur! God sends us guardian angels to minister to our wants." 
                
               As he carelessly stalked along, the sound of voices stole on the still cool breeze. He had no thought of becoming an eaves-dropper-how contemptible; but a name sounded on his ear, "Miss Sallie is an heiress," said Winton, "in her mother's right; Mr. Marlby is only her half-brother and her guardian. She is highly accomplished, beautiful, and romantic-just the woman to suit Dr. Darville. Her immense cotton fields will soon cover double and thriple the amount loaned me! Fool-fool, that I was, so to squander my money." 
               "I should like to see Miss Marlby; you seem quite infatuated with her." 
               "I am; such a magnificent girl-such dark eyes-such glossy, raven hair." 
               "Right! Winton, right! you are a genius. Strange-strange, I never thought of it before," said Darville, rising and rubbing his hands, while a bright gleam of intelligence flashed over his countenance. 
               Winton smiled scornfully, and thought it did not require any very great depth of perception in that particular. 
               "But what, tell me, what are my chances?" 
               "I'll manage for you; be very philanthropic; devote much time to gratis patients.' Marlby is very charitable," said Winton, with a dash of satire in his tone. 
               "But, I don't want to practice-and if I did-what could a gentleman do here? a rough fellow like Dr. Bayles suits the people here better. I went to College, just because it was fashionable in the South to have a profession; and besides, I am like Japhet Newland, I can't bear that Dr. Darville; at whose knock every aristocratic door has been thrown open, should be put in big letters over a shop. 
               "Look here, Darville, I think I am as good looking as you are; and I know I am; and I have my name hung out in glaring capitals." 
               "Yes; but you want the money, and I don't!" 
               "Very true," said Winton, with a bitter smile. 
               Linnie heard no more. 
               The next day was the Fourth of July. At the celebration, several speeches were made, and quite a number of toasts read and responded to. Linnie was called on to respond to "Our Country!" and he arose promptly. 
                
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "Our Country"- 
                           "This is indeed a critical time in the history of our country; never did the stream of national discord flow on so rapidly as now, until the whole Republic 'totters from turret to foundation,' and threatens one grand inundation and utter annihilation to the Union; and by this intense sectional hate, destroy all fraternal feeling existing between North and South. Time was when it was different; there was no Avernian lake to divide us; no platform of sectional hate whereon to build their schisms; it was E Pluribus Unum! But whence came this Pandora box from whence all the evils of dissension have gone forth? Who, and what, are these champions-these cohorts rallying to the banner of fanaticism, followed by a long train of ignorance and suspicion? Who, and what, are these fanatics? True, it is no child of the chivalrous South; but of Northern and foreign extraction; and like the Goths, and all wandering tribes, come from the North. Whence this Babel-like confusion of voices that throng our cities? We would say to every Republican, every lover of liberty, in whose heart is enshrined his country, welcome to our shores. We recognize the freeman, whether born beneath the warm skies of the sunny South, or amid the snow-wreathed mountains of the North. But we protest against this foreign invasion! Down-down, we say, with this fanaticism; these Black Republicans. We will not have the demagogue to rule over us! the traitor, who, Arnold-like, would sell his country for gold! Whence this Upas tree? whose wide-spreading branches threaten to take deep root in our glorious land of liberty, whose infectious breath is more poisonous than the deadly Simoon. Whence these two thousand priests that darken our land? these pontifical robes, this paraphernalia of priestcraft that hang like a pall over our happy land? this trampling under foot our constitution? threatening to chain us, Promethean-like, to a hated hierarchy? Man is, and ever should be, a thinking being; and should exercise that faculty independent of public opinion. How we loathe and abhor the slave of public opinion! 'The fault is not in our stars, but in ourselves, that we are underlings.' 
                                  
                                    'When went there by an age, since the great flood, 
                                    But it was famed with more than with one man? 
                                    When could they say, till now, that talked of Rome, 
                                    That her wide walks encompassed but one man?" 
                                 
                              
                            
                           "Is there no love of home, or of country, wherewith to inspire you? When the Grecian bards went to war, their songs were of far off home, of kindred, and of friends. How those songs cheered their hearts-how it inspired them with a love of victory! 
                           "Farther back, and what do you see? Ah, it is one vast wilderness, dotted with wigwams, whose curling smoke is the only token of habitation, with a sprinkling of fir, pine, and rocks, which terminate in a rugged coast. Again, it is a little vessel ploughing the waves; on-on, nearer and nearer it comes. Ah, it is a handful of a faithful few! They no longer writhe under a cruel yoke bondage; for they are-and should be-freemen! Tambourgi! Tambourgi, arise-thy notes give token of war!' Ah, it is the tramp of horses! theclash of arms! the din and confusion of battle! The ranks are thin! power is in strength-not in numbers. Ah, it is the weary march of the barefoot soldiery! On-on, they go, with slow and measured tread; we think we hear the crush of frozen snow, and see their blood-stained footprints. Then, the pinched poverty of Valley Forge. But the victory of Yorktown! Ah! then, 'a long, loud shout went up to the God of Liberty, and these united colonies were free! 
                           "Whose sons are we? and where is the spirit of liberty which characterized the heroes of Seventy-Six? 
                           "But again, cities rise up as with a magician's wand; we see this vast wilderness dotted here and there; villas stretching far, far away. The steamboat and iron-horse come whizzing along laden with the wealth of other climes, for which we give in exchange our cotton. But, suddenly a sound is heard-like the far off rumbling of Mount Vesuvius, threatening to pour forth its burning lava-and overwhelmn North and South in utter destruction. Shall England, who first introduced slavery here-shall England's curfew toll the knell of departed glory to the Union? for ages to come, our trampled Constitution swing out as a sign to all nations? No, no; down-down, with the traitor! they shall not, and how dare they attempt with impunity, to usurp our rights? This land is ours; our forefathers fought for it, and it is ours; great and glorious, because it is free; and we will protect it from the ruthless invader-ah, with our heart's blood. 'But I read something better in the destiny of our country.' The proud eagle still exultingly soars; and the 'star-spangled banner triumphantly waves o'er the land of the free, and the home of the brave!'" 
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Ah, Linnie," said Dr. Bayles, "that was quite an effort." 
               "Not so great as you might suppose; you will remember, I borrowed a little from your friend, Shakspeare." 
               "You are young, quite young yet, Linnie; time, Linnie-a few years will convince you. Every man commits a blunder once in life-but yours is not irretrievable; you will make a good-good Democrat yet." 
               "I am a good Democrat now, except my Know-Nothing principles," said Linnie, laughing. 
               "Doctor, I think it is very unfortunate that Linnie has taken such a political position," said Bell, whom he chanced to meet. 
               "Ah, well, I don't know," said Dr. Bayles. 
               "But I think it will injure his practice as a lawyer; and if ever a man wants an office, it takes us Democrats to elect him. It is true, Linnie has genius, and it is much to be deplored that his education has been so sadly neglected; in fact, I cannot conceive why his relations ever permitted him to go with such a man as Gen. Winthrop." 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "And is he gone?" On sudden solitude 
                           How oft that fearful question will intrude. 
                           "'Twas but an instant past, and here he stood. 
                           And now," without the portals porch she rush'd, 
                           And then at length her tears in freedom gush'd, 
                           Big, bright, and fast, unknown to her they fell; 
                           But still her lips refused to send 'farewell.' 
                           For in that word, that fatal word, howe'er, 
                           We promise hope, believe, there breathes despair." 
                        
                         
                           "He's gone!" against her heart that hand is driven, 
                           Convulsed and quick, then gently raised to heaven; 
                           She looked and saw the heaving of the main; 
                           The white sail set, she dared not look again; 
                           But turned with sickening soul within the gate- 
                           "It is no dream-and I am desolate." 
                        
                      
                     CORSAIR. 
                   
                
               ISADORE sauntered into the parlor, and carelessly turned over the leaves of Harper; but Dickens' new story was not sufficient to interest her just then. She gathered her bonnet, and went into the garden spotted with flowers; laughing vines clambered up the trees, and on the fence, their long festoons clinging around the dense-foliage, with arbor-vit on either side the broad Avenue. The grounds were shaded with microfilla, cape jessamine, and japonicas; beyond was a hedge of lilacs, then another of osage orange; conspicuous amongst these was the august person of Mr. Marlby, giving orders to Uncle Ben, the old black gardener, from time immemorial, at Marlby Villa. While Isadora was busily gathering her flowers, she noticed her aunt and the little governess coming in from the back yard, and caught occasional snatches of their conversation, which was something in this style, "Now the way we do North is this."-"Yes, your conservatory is fitted up right."-"Oh, it is beautiful; cultivation does improve it so much."-"And this, with us, is a rare plant, only cultivated in the hot-house; I have analyzed it, and find it precisely the same," said Miss Warren, pointing to a little apricot that Uncle Ben had chanced to overlook. 
                
               "Mrs. Marlby, I have commissioned Ben to remove some of your shrubbery; I think it altogether too dense; I hope it will meet with your approbation." 
               "Certainly, Mr. Marlby, I think it will be an improvement." 
               "Here, Isadore, I see you are gathering flowers; I think I am a little taller than you; here, have these," as he reached up and gathered some from a clambering vine. 
               "Oh, uncle, please don't let him cut that down." 
               "Oh, tut, tut, tut, Isadore, I cannot put up with this wilderness of shrubbery; there is no system about it-it does not show the original design." 
               Isadore knew that remonstrance was vain, for doubtless the plan had been laid off by his great grand-father, with a slight improvement from each successive Marlby. Wending her way to the little stream that bounded so joyously by, then lost in the distance through the large cotton fields-it was the same old brown rock where she had so often been before-again she paused to contemplate a scene of so much beauty; then began to weave them into a garland which she placed on her head. 
               "Beautiful, is it not?" 
               "Yes, very; but I have been thinking Linnie, of you going from one extremity of the State to meet me, and I from the other, to meet you; was it not strange?" 
               "It was a little strange, I confess," said Linnie, laughing, "and passing strange, I never thought of it before." 
               "But how came you to know I was here?" 
               "I caught a glimpse of you from the road. But come, my horse is getting impatient; let us visit your favorite haunt, the great magnolia." 
               Linnie helped Isadore down from the massive rock, looking so mossy and ancient with its little fissures, and here and there a tuft of grasp, and handed her to the buggy. They crossed the rustic bridge; together they gazed into the dancing stream, fringed with the swamp willow, with here and there a little sapling bending under the thick mat woven with muscadine and grape. 
               "How have you spent the time, Isadore, since I saw you last?" 
               "Let me think a moment. Oh, I will begin with the most interesting first: this forenoon I have been entertaining the Rev. D-." 
               "Ah, indeed; he is a beautiful speaker-such beautiful illustrations I never heard; a people sat entranced beneath the magic of his eye." 
               "But, Linnie, you should have seen the introduction; I was considerably bly embarrassed at being vis-a-vis to a person of such wide spread celebrity, consequently I said nothing, for the best of all possible reasons, I knew nothing to say. He, too, seemed rather diffident, and stammered out something about the weather. I was astonished to see such a great man appear embarrassed before little unobtrusive I." 
               "He is too great a man, Isadore, to talk 'little nothings' in a ladies' parlor-his sphere is in the pulpit. But, ah, that mighty mind of his; all must acknowledge that superior force of intellect, and contrast will force itself so clearly upon us, that we are obliged to separate him from the common mind." 
               "Yes; such gigantic intellect I have never seen before. His imagination seems to partake so little of the earthly, but soaring among the stars; and when he is wandering amid those bright constellations, I wish, Oh, if I only were so high, so spiritual as I think him to be." 
               "You are enthusiastic on the subject." 
               "Perhaps so, but indeed, I have been very thoughtful since he left; my mind seems to have a wider scope than before, with a clearer perception, and more just appreciation of all that is grand and beautiful in nature; not that I have more correct ideas of God than before, but there are times when he seems nearer to us." 
               And thus the moments passed by, for theirs was a happiness that dreamed not of disappointment nor blighted hopes; and the cloud that was gathering, was unperceived by them until the big round drops came; then they took shelter in a cottage, and it passed off, leaving a bouyancy of spirits. On their return home Linnie told her he was going to leave. 
               "To leave!" and she raised her eyes to him, as though she could not comprehend the whole extent of misery contained in those words. 
               "Nay, look not thus; I shall only be gone a few weeks." 
               "But a few weeks is so long to me." 
                      
                        "I knew, I knew, it could not last, 
                        'Twas bright, 'twas heavenly, but 'tis past. 
                        Oh, ever thus, from childhood's hour, 
                        I've seen my fondest hopes decay." 
                     
                      
                        "Now, too, the joy most like divine 
                        Of all I ever dreampt or knew." 
                     
                  
                
               "Why, Isadore, you seem to think I am going away forever." 
               "Ah, no, I hope not-I believe not," 
                      
                        "Say on, thou fearest not then, 
                        And we may meet, oft' meet again." 
                         
                        "Oh, look not so, beneath the skies 
                        I now fear nothing but those eyes. 
                        If aught on earth could charm or force 
                        My spirit from its destin'd course, 
                        If aught could make this soul forget 
                        The bond to which its seal is set, 
                        'Twould be those eyes; they, only they, 
                        Could melt that sacred seal away." 
                     
                  
                
               When they returned, the shadows were lengthening-the dew, nature's tears, were fast falling on the rocks washed by the little brook, whose waters were murmuring its accustomed song to the air. 
               And thus they parted-so young-so hopeful-so beautiful, little dreaming of the cares, and sorrows, the years of trial and misery that were to intervene e'er they met again. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XI. 
                
                  
                     "My eye pierces the secret hearts of men-I see their thoughts e'er their lips proclaim them; and I scorn, while I see, the weakness and the vices which I never shared-I laugh at the madness of the warrior-I mock within my soul at the tyranny of kings. Surely there is something in man's nature more fitted to command-more worthy of renown, than the sinews of the arm, or the swiftness of the feet, or the accident of birth!"
                   
                
               "WHY, my little cousin, I hope that sigh is for none other than myself!" 
               Isadore looked up, for a friendly hand was laid on her shoulder, and an affectionate cheek touched hers-tender fingers played through her long silken hair, which was none of your dingy, but a beautiful brown; and fell in graceful curls around her neck. 
               "Well, dear Will, what has brought you home, and what is the matter with you?" 
               "To see you, my dear! and then I had a difficulty with one of the students; don't you see my arm is bandaged? But you are not glad to see me; I am sorry I come! I saw your curls through the trees, and stole, oh, so softly, up to this nice little nook; but, Isadore, to tell you the truth, though I am not so poetical as you, even this old brown rock, and that little branch, amongst this wilderness of weeds, has more attraction traction for me than those old grim college walls! But tell me what you were thinking of when I surprised you?" 
               "Cousin Will, I am not a Catholic, neither are you my father confessor!" 
               "Ah, I know where you are now! give it up; you were thinking of Linnie; I met him at a rail-way station-how handsome lie has grown!" 
               "I hear the sound of carriage wheels, let's go and meet aunty." 
               "Why, Will, is it possible? What has brought you home?" 
               Mrs. Marlby rushed from the carriage to meet her darling; Will, whose sudden appearance had slightly provoked her, knowing it was the time when he should be preparing for commencement. But when she saw him looking so pale, and his arm in a sling-then it was all the tide of the mother's feelings rushed into her soul; she had forgotten he was wild-had forgotten all-but him there, and so changed. 
               "Oh, mamma, he is so pale," whispered Ada. 
               "Yes, come get in, you are too ill to walk!" 
               "Indeed, I am not; at the depot I met Winton, who insisted on my getting in his buggy, and brought me as far as Isadore's pet-the great magnolia-and would have brought me all the way, but I preferred a quiet surprise." 
               Mrs. Marlby then ordered the coachman to drive on. While this little scene was going on, Miss Warren, to use her own words, was on the "qui-vive," peeping cut from behind the white satin curtains, with an occasional glance at the mirror, to see that her curls were arranged just right. Now, it chanced that Mrs. Marlby could not occupy the front seat in the carriage, owing a kind of sea-sickness produced by riding backwards. But if Miss Warren ever had any such symptons, they were entirely cured by coming South. (Previous to that time, her health had been somewhat precarious.) But she always found the front seat very pleasant, and besides, often found the mirror very advantageous in re-arranging her curls, and smoothing down her collar. 
               "But, Isadore, you have not answered my question," said Will, dexterously turning from his mother's hard questions, which he was ingenious enough to evade for the present. "What do you mean by that blush?" 
               "What do I mean?" 
               "There is a kind of imperceptible awe steals over one in being alone. Just so with Isadore. Linnie was something lofty she could contemplate plate, and stand in awe of his sublime majesty, not condescending to partake of her enthusiasm." 
               "Why, Will, I have known Linnie always; indeed, I was so young I did not know much before him." 
               "There is yet room for improvement." 
               "Doubtless, for I suspect he thinks me very stupid." 
               "I presume he does; who ever saw lovers otherwise than embarrassed in each other's society?" 
               "What an interesting harangue! quite a chef-de-auvre." 
               "Cousin Sallie, how unceremonious you are." 
               "Am I? then kiss me; I am very glad to see you." 
               "Certainly, I know how inconsistent you are." 
               "Indeed!" said she, throwing her arms affectionately around his neck; "but what brought you home" We were preparing to go to the commencement. But what is this?" 
               "Oh, nothing to alarm you cousin; I had a difficulty with a classmate, and was wounded, as you see." 
               "Oh, shocking!" 
               "Why, son, is it possible!" said Mr. Marlby, coming up at this moment. 
               "You certainly do not recognise imposibilities, father? it is plain matter of fact, Will; and I am glad to see you looking so well. All the family here at last, even to mammy, I see emerging from her cabin." And there she came, in all the dignity of blue homespun, followed by a train of little urchins of the sable race. "It is highly gratifying to be so loved as I am; I know all love me," said he, leaning affectionately against his mother. 
               "Ah, mammy, you are glad I am home again." 
               "Yes, me specs Mas Will glad too, me pray to the good Lord for massa; missy pray too; massa rich, but him poor too; he never know de good Lord." 
               Will, with a heart gushing with affection-a child of impulse-could scarcely restrain his tears, at the demonstrations of affection from the simple-minded negress. 
               "Bad, bad, my son, but you will avoid all such difficulties in future. But let us walk; glad as your friends are to see you, they must not weary you; you need rest," said Mr. Marlby, after having learned all that Mrs. Marlby knew in regard to Will's return. 
               "Ma, where is Pa," said Will, faintly, the next morning after his return. 
                
               "Gone to the city." 
               "I suppose he knows all about this affair?" 
               "Yes; but do not trouble yourself about that now; you have already undergone too much fatigue, and besides, your Pa is too glad you are alive, and I do hope this will be the last-the very last!" 
               "But Ma, I am in debt." 
               "I'll settle it for you." 
               "But, Ma, I fear you cannot, it is a large amount. I do not want Pa to know it, he reprimands me so severely; oh, I fear so much the glance of his eye in rebuke." 
               "Isadore, give me a glass of wine." 
               "Ma, and cousin, and I, and aunt-do excuse me cousin Sallie-love Will, don't we? and mammy too, said Ada, who was listening with deep interest. 
               Mrs. Marlby, with a troubled air, folded up the dress she was braiding for Ada, took off her thimble and laid it in the basket, then took it up and went to work, then laid it down again, and finally left the room evidently occupied in thought. 
               Dr. Bayles shook his head more knowingly than usual on examining the pulse of the invalid, on whose brow was written deep traces of dissipation; laid down his walking cane, gazed at the intricate labyrinths of the ingenious spider; wondered how such a nice woman as Mrs. Marlby ever allowed her house to be polluted with a spider's web. But like the story of the elm tree, where all in their turn thanked. God for creating so many beauties for their use and enjoyment especially, this theme furnished food for study. And was not that gossamer work beautiful; for all he saw was clothed in beauty; nature was arrayed in smiles,-from the abrupt and craggy mountain dreary and waste, to the tiny rose-bud-each had their style of beauty. "How did people live without sentiment to appreciate the grand and beautiful? is not the world a blank, and they worse than a blank in society?" 
               "Sad affair, this," said the Doctor. 
               "What a presuming old villain," thought Will, but the contempt was mutual, and he made no reply. 
               "How did it happen?" querried the Doctor. 
               "Springer and I were each infatuated with the beautiful Miss L-who, by the bye, is the most captivating lady I ever saw; he was jealous of me, thinking I had made a more favorable impression than him; he spoke not only reproachfully, but made sundry false charges against my character, for which civility I offered him a challenge." A very pretty story, gotten up impromptu to suit the occasion, and very different from the truth, thought Will. 
               Dr. Bayles believed just one half, each felt they were deceiving the other, yet each too politic for a civil war, or even an open rebellion. 
               "Will," said Dr. Bayles, turning over the leaves of a book, "when do you like Franklin most?" 
               "What do you mean?" 
               "As the tallow chandler, the printer, philosopher or statesman?" 
               "When he married the woman to whom he felt himself under obligations; as to my not knowing at what period in his eventful life this occurred, I presume it does not matter to one so well posted up as yourself; he, you know, never spoke a word too quick or too late, and never failed to speak the right word, and at the right time and place, and it is a great pity that others do not follow his example." 
               "Ah, yes, I remember." 
               The Doctor now very ingeniously turned the conversation on his favorite theme, the ancients. Said he, speaking mechanically, "Retrospect the sombre ages that have receded through the hour glass of time; how they unfold to us the rich and rare magnificence that cluster around the grotesque and classical ancients." 
               "I hope you are better this morning." 
               "I am much better, cousin Sallie, and considerably refreshed, from the circumstance of my friend, Dr. Bayles, who has been entertaining me with Homer, Virgil and Jupiter, gentlemen of his acquaintance, of whom I know nothing." 
               Dr. Bayles was brave enough to have faced the cannon at the storming of Sevastopol; but before the fire of Will's artillery his courage failed, consequently he beat a retreat. 
               "For shame, Will; how could you cut the Doctor in that manner?" 
               "I only wished to remind him of his superficial education, and his bombastic manner of displaying it." 
               "But it is a mark of ill-breeding, though persons of pretended gentility often condescend to it. But you should remember that Dr. Bayles is so kind, so noble, despite his little imperfections; but human nature at best, is imperfect, and we should learn to bear with these little imperfections." 
               "Very good, cousin Sallie." 
               That evening Sallie and Isadore went down the long slope of hill that led to the stream, from whence, through the clump of tall pines, was seen Marlby Villa-grand and stately like its owner. They crossed ed the bridge. "Here; do let me get this sprig of jessamine; accept it with the compliments of the season." 
               "You are late, Miss Sallie, the season is nearly over. But is not that waterfall pretty? Would that I could paint, not a dying groan, but the song of water." 
               "Have you no poetry for anything else, Isadore?" 
               "Those white rocks are pretty; but let us take that little path." 
               They passed a forest of young pines so dense and dark, as only to be lit up here and there by a ray of sunshine. They came into the white sandy road. "Here, Isadore, as you are so very romantic, let us take a seat on this speckled rock. Doubtless you think me very cold, because I am not in raptures at every shady nook, every flower, and catching at every shadow on the water; but I am not altogether so callous as you imagine. I, too, can see beauty in these things, but I am older than you; and the most beautiful landscape we depreciate one half its charms without some one to enjoy it with us; again, and again, I think, shall I ever find a spirit congenial with my own." 
               Just then the sound of wheels was heard, and Winton came dashing by at full speed, with his beautiful pair of horses, and bowed, just as Sallie thought Winton should bow. 
               "Oh, is not this beautiful," as she stooped to pick up a large pine burr and gave to Isadore, congratulating herself that she had not noticed her confusion. 
               "But here comes mammy." With a slow and weary tread she came. 
               "Where have you been, mammy?" 
               "Bin to town, chile," said she, carefully brushing the rock to keep from soiling her dress of gingham that Miss Sallie had brought her from the North, "and is most tired to death." 
               "Don't be so nice, mammy; sit down and tell us what important event carried you to town." 
               "I've bin to Mr. Bell's to see the black woman what was sick." 
               "And how is she?" 
               "Mighty bad, Miss Sallie, mighty bad; but me no like them Bell's' neider white nor black. Do you like em, Miss Sallie?" 
               "Certainly, mammy, they are a clever family." 
               "No, Miss Sallie, dey not cleber; de black folks tell me de way Miss Irene do talk about you, Miss Sallie; she say you bin to de North, got your head full of Northern notions-nothing good enough in de South for you; she say she neber go nowhere but she hear it talked about." 
               "Ah, indeed." 
                
               Mammy raised her great white eyes to Sallie in amazement. "You not mad, Miss Sallie, but me mad; I jist gin it to um good; I told um you so much richer-so much better than-" 
               "Ah, mammy, that was very condescending in you,-you, the representative of the whole black family at Marlby Villa; why really you have compromised your dignity, for to retalliate, places you on equality with the person." 
               "Well, Miss Sallie, I dont know what you mean by dat long speech, but I spose its got somethin' to do with dem folks; but I aint in no better humor wid um yet." 
               "Ah, mammy, I am sorry that mistake of the Bell's causes you so much trouble; for mine are strictly 'low country' notions. But Isadore, I am obliged to believe in the blood of people. Those Bells have amassed a considerable fortune; they are fashinable, but they have no genuine refinement; poverty has nothing to do with the blood of people." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Was this the face, that faced so many follies?"
                      
                     KING RICHARD. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "It doth amaze me, 
                           A man of such a fearful fever should 
                           So get the start of the majestic world, 
                           And bear the balm alone." 
                        
                      
                     JULIUS CSAR. 
                   
                
               MEANWHILE, Dr. Darville was very comfortably ensconced in his quarters at the Globe Hotel, guarded by two massive lions in bronze, whilst on the table lay Byron and Moore; other poets were scattered about the room in beautiful confusion, whilst a line from each whirled through his brain in a success on unequalled by any poet of ancient or modern standing. 
               He muttered, "In the morning I will leave here. O, the noise of the drays and wagons-this elbowing, this gog and agog, and perpetual stare of fruits and vegetables; these grim old brick walls, washed by the rains of half a century. And everybody hurrying to the circus- the washerwoman would go to-morrow; Betsy was going to-night; I have to stay at home and mind the children while mistress is gone; but I'll go after dinner. Uncle Ben is gone up yonder, but he, too, is going; and, even some genteel people are going to the circus! and here is a train of cars rumbling through the streets, drawn by four mules, as if they could not get a locomotive. And I am glad, glad when it is inky dark, and Green street is no longer swept by the rustle of silk; and darkness like a pall hangs over the thoroughfares. But here is the paper; Kossuth! Kossuth! every thing is Kossuth and Hungary. Well, I think charity begins at home! I wonder if we have not got quite enough of their hungry ones already here; if a beggar was to ask me, I could give him a dollar; but these dressed up beggars, whom all the world has gone crazy about! pity I can't get a sensible paper to read, without all this ridiculous stuff about Kossuth and Hungary. A nice way for a gentleman to be annoyed, I must confess; but I'll leave here! 
               Winton, with eyes swollen and red, sat in his dressing gown, in an abstracted mood; he muttered, "Something must be done, and that quickly! I must never be disgraced; the money must be paid!" 
               "Darville"-he read the name with a quivering lip, as the servant handed him a card-it was an awful moment of suspense. "But shall the clay cry out against the potter? he shall yield to me; money I must have! and then-what! I become ambitious? No, no! Demosthenes-shave my head; dwell in a cave; practice with a sword unsheathed; pebbles in my mouth. No! But I should like to travel; visit, forsooth, the pyramids of Egypt; gaze where Time has left his dim old foot-prints on the borders of the Mediterranean and its classic shores; and lovely Greece, so beautiful in song and story, so rife with fable and philosophy; and the land of song, the grottos, hallowed by the memory of the heroes and nymphs that cluster around heathen and ancient writers What, I grow enthusiastic! but to an expansive mind, like mine, ever soaring on the wing of Fancy, so far above the common herd of every day life, this dull, monotonous life is too insipid. But that money!" 
               When Winton arrived at the hotel, the omnibus stood at the door, drawn by the beautiful white horses, then came one grand rush for the reception room. The hurry, bustle, and confusion of servants incident to the train coming in, there was a fragile looking woman with a delicate child, doubtless from some watering place, then a corpulent man, with a kind of Hiawatha looking young man, escorting ing a graceful young girl, followed by a servant carrying a willow basket, and other at ceteras. 
               "Mon ami! allow me to offer my congratulations on your safe return," said Winton, cordially extending his hand to Darville. 
               "I hope I have not kept you waiting." 
               "O, no, by no means-but my cab is at the door-drive to-street; I presume you have no objections, Winton?" 
               Winton, mastering all his contempt for the creature, was soon tete a tete with him. When they returned, the matter was amicably settled. Darville at first hesitated, but there was something in the glance of Winton's dark eye, he could not resist, and he yielded up more of his wealth, which, like his mind, was going back instead of forwards." 
               "Kate, what must I wear?" 
               "I think your skirt trimmed with velvet beautiful." 
               "O, that don't look well for an evening dress; well, let me see-what shall I wear! Juno, see how many flounces there are on my new dress." 
               "Who are your visitors, Sallie?" 
               "Mr. Winton and Dr. Darville, to whom I shall be excessively polite, from the fact of his coming with Mr. Winton, and, besides he is not only of good family, but one of the best in the State." Isadore smiled. "Why that smile?" 
               "I was thinking of the time, when my fiery Pegassus precipitated me so beautifully to the ground, and Dr. Darville looked so blank, and wanted to know if I was hurt, without assisting me to rise." 
               "It was a beautiful situation, I admit." 
               "But I knew I was not dead; but if it had not been for Linnie"- 
               "I knew it would be him! Linnie-oh, yes-truly heroic, there is a similarity between all love and novel tales; but do, as Dr. Bayles says, allow me to make a suggestion-Do not be so infatuated with Linnie. But here comes mammy. Well, mammy, what do you think of me now?" 
               "Me 'fraid Miss Sallie marry some upstart and come to no good;-spend her money," said the old prophetess. "You know de lady staid here; wore de mantilla to breakfast-mighty grand! She say she believe there was a lectur last night. Miss Oriana gin it to her good! She says her husband lectured. Now, dat is what I call puttin' on airs!" 
               "Don't you like Sallie, mammy?" 
                
               "Yes missus, I likes Miss Sallie; Miss Sallie likes herself, too!" 
               "Miss Sallie, I hope you will excuse me for not going down to entertain your visitors, having a previous engagement with Will, and I think a ride on the water will be more pleasant, if not more congenial to my feelings." and bowing with mock gravity, Isadore withdrew. 
               Sallie was very polite to Dr. Darville, yet, in her heart, she could not refrain from wishing him somewhere else than there; more especially as she felt more interest in the handsome, gay, dashing Winton, than she was willing to acknowledge even to herself, I and this unacknowledged sentiment, prompted her to appear in her natural character, a gifted and accomplished young lady, and leave her little superfluities to be put on again as occasion required. 
               Winton, at first, permitted Dr. Darville to lead the conversation; ideas that had been chasing each other in rapid succession in his mind, now became settled; his quick perception had detected in Sallie's manner, the faintest possible show of a preference for himself, and though he would not now presume on this, yet he resolved to, at least, make an effort to secure the prize for himself, and felt humiliated in his own estimation, that he should ever have proposed her to such a creature as Darville. 
               "Dr. Bayles," said Mrs. Marlby, as they entered the parlor, "you will be glad to learn that Mrs. Vincent and I have succeeded in securing a small school for Mrs. Barnes. I find you were correct in your judgment, she is not only well educated, but I believe will be a good disciplinarian." 
               "Very well, madam; that is why I mentioned her to you; you can make her fashionable in one season as a teacher; every one will yield to your superior judgment; when one once gains the reputation of being wise to those moving on the surface, that is enough to compensate the mass." 
               "You are not very complimentary, Doctor." 
               "I only speak figuratively, madam! But how much we owe to accident. I was in New York once with only twenty cents, madam!-I am a great traveller! I am a land speculator!" and he laughed at his own wit. "Nothing escapes my eye, and I speculate on the past, present, and future, learn a moral from the juggler of China, the parsimonious Jew, the little boy that spins his top. Mark the object! ah, the wheel of industry is the great mart on which everything revolves. Genius is genius; clothe it in rags, it will appear-education will cause the mind much sooner to expand-but smother the fire of genius, and it will burst forth with a sudden dazzling flame!" 
                
               Mrs. Marlby was gone, and Dr. Bayles sat musing, whilst his life, in a sad panorama, rose before him: 
               On a gradual slope overlooking the village-the log cabin, with chinck and daubing, whilst the winds of winter crept unceremoniously in at the crevices; now howled down the chimney with a sudden gust, throwing ashes and sparks at random, then whirled past with allow, moaning sound. Thousands of icicles sparkled on the clear silvery night. Then pyramids of snow; little, ragged, and fantastic wreathes are whirling past. Then, farther back, toiling up an abrupt and craggy hill for a daily pittance, to meet the scoffs and jeers of the housekeeper. The soul revolts at such scenes. A sickly mother, smaller children. Then the struggle up the ascent-the bauble, neglect, perseverance, deep thought and assiduity in the long road to fame. 
               Dr. Bayles' revery was broken by Winton and Dr. Darville rising to take their leave. 
               The summer waned, and the forest was red and yellow with the leaves of autumn, which, here and there, lay in a crumpled mass; the spider spun his accustomed task. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Theu deem'st it strange that she should love thee still, 
                        Since thou, to her, hast so unfaithful proved; 
                        But oh, reflect awhile that she has loved, 
                        And know that woman's love is not like that 
                        Frail, fluctuating love of man's, that lights 
                        So often but to inflict a wound severe," 
                     
                   
                
               "WINTON, pay my money back." 
               "Now," said this modern Frankenstein, "Darville, I shall most assuredly refund your money, for remember that I am a gentleman, and yet a man of honor." 
               Darville could not but notice the look of withering scorn which accompanied this speech; however, nothing dismayed, he continued, "Since I am not to get Miss Marlby-" 
               Winton's eyes flashed indignantly, but only for an instant, as it settled tled into the old look of scorn, as he answered, "I was not aware, sir, that I had the disposal of Miss Marlby's hand." 
               "Yes, but you promised to electioneer for me." 
               "Well, hav'nt I kept my word? did I not introduce you? and Mr. Marlby recognized you as the son of his old friend, and gave you a standing invitation?" 
               "Come, come, Winton, none of your sailing under false colors, we understand each other; if you were making a speech in the court house, I could listen; I admire your genius, but save it for others that can appreciate it." 
               "Well, Darville, what do you think of the Nebraska bill?" 
               "It's just like all other no-account bills; it won't bear close inspection." 
               "I don't believe you are sound on the slavery question." 
               "Yes, I am, so far as Miss Sallie's interest is concerned; but that reminds me I have an invitation to tea." 
               When Winton arrived at the supper room, notwithstanding his light conversation with Darville, he, like Frankenstein, turned his head to see if the monster pursued him; but no, it was only a group of ladies attended by a gentleman; they, too, were slowly wending their way to the supper room. Servants were hurrying to and fro. Amid the confusion of persons passing and repassing Winton moved up to one of the little round tables which was now vacant; the family group occupied another. Winton now noticed that nearly all the tables were deserted, and just then Mrs. Bell made her appearance, enquiring for the butler. The silent meal was soon over, and Winton was leaving, when the voice of Mrs. Maynard arrested his attention: "Do come this way, Mr. Winton; only think this coral was picked up in Panama, and this basket of shells sent me from Key West." 
               "This is the natural coral; it is certainly very pretty. Who is the donor?" 
               "Oh, uncle James Springer sent them. Oh, it was so unfortunate about his and Will Marlby's difficulty; it caused them both to be expelled from college; but uncle James always was a bad boy, and Will Marlby no better." 
               "But there comes Dr. Bayles-and who is that with him? Ah, that is the man that sent for me to play for him; but really, Mr. Winton, I could not take the responsibility of entertaining all of Pa's boarders, consequently I sent a plain matter-of-fact refusal." 
               "Oh, Irene, Irene, I am astonished at you," said the dignified Mrs. Bell. Meanwhile, Dr. Bayles and his companion came to Mrs. Bell's own private table, to which the Doctor always had free access. "Dr. Bayles, how is your patient, sir?" 
               "Very bad, madam." 
               "Is there no hope?" 
               "I fear not, madam; that trip to Havana has not benefited him, but rather increased his malady." 
               "Ah, it is melancholly, indeed, for him to die," said Irene. "One who is altogether so preposessing in his manners, and possessed of such excellent qualities." 
               The meal was over, and on ascending the stairs Irene and Winton heard very distinctly "And that was Mrs. Bell; I have been here two weeks and never saw her before." 
               "Ah," said Dr. Bayles, "you never called on her-clever lady." 
               "Fine looking lady; and her daughter, what a magnificent suit of hair-so black." 
               "Quite complimentary," said Irene, laughing; "it is really refreshing to hear one's self so highly complimented; it would not matter to be more frequently behind the scenes, if one could always hear themselves so well spoken of. I wonder if he knows I am married?" 
               On entering the parlor it was now vacant, and as they turned to leave they met her brother, with an Italian carrying an immense harp. 
               "Where are the girls, Irene?" 
               "Don't go in there, Tasso, we will soon find them." On entering the private parlor, Winton unconsciously had his eyes turned to the floor, but on raising them he was astonished to see Sue Winthrop. Yes, he was not mistaken, it was her; but so sudden, so unexpected, he actually grasped the mantel and leaned for support; while Sue's heart in all its wild pulsations stood still. She had witnessed his emotion, and it was a triumph. Ah, yes, he loved her, and it inspired her with new courage; and on this impromptu, she gathered her scattered thoughts, and was apparently busy criticising a picture, pointing out its defects and beauties to a Mr. Ward, a gay, dashing young man, who sported pack of hounds, could appreciate a spirited animal, and withal, was fond of champagne; with so many accomplishments he could not be otherwise than a favorite with the General. 
               The old smile of scorn settled on Winton's handsome features; he felt he had no language to depict woman-dissimulating woman's, duplicity. But the spark now died away, never again to be rekindled. 
               Mrs. Vincent was gracefully reclining on a divan, her eyes turned towards the mantel, then rested on the carpet. She was evidently much perplexed, not out of temper, for she was one of those quiet persons who apparently glide down the stream of life without permitting any external appearance of inward emotion. 
               Mrs. Vincent had been a widow for several years, and during that time, had been scrupulous about keeping within doors, never going out except to Church, and visits to the sick; however, she often relieved the monotony of her fashionable mourning by managing, in her quiet way, to entertain a few select friends at home; and she was just now begining to go out, and Laura, too, was to be brought out, and it might be this circumstance that now perplexed her. 
               Now, Mrs. Vincent had set her heart on uniting the broad lands of Marlby and Vincent in one, and her impression was that this could be brought about easily, by an alliance with Will and Laura. They were both young, and it was true Will was rather dissipated, but her impression was that Will would reform; and besides, Mrs. Marlby was of a distinguished family, and more than one of her relations had figured largely in history. Mrs. Vincent was a little ambitious in her quiet way, and thought they must be of more importance, as here in America it requires genius to promote one. It was true the Marlby family were a monied family from time immemorial-highly respectable, but not distinguished; but then, again, there was Sallie's mother who was also of a distinguished family, and though she would much prefer it to have been on the Marlby side, yet it was no objection, and taking all the matters into consideration, the match was in every way desirable; but how to bring it about in her quiet way, puzzled her a little-just a little. What a pity gentlemen have to propose; now, if it was the reverse, how admirably it could be brought about. But after deep research she at length found a gem hid away, and deep as the mines of Golconda,-she would have one of those 'little parties,'-but who to invite? ah, there it was again,-she and the Marlby family had always been friends, in fact, the only family with whom she had been on intimate terms. But then, by the merest chance she had learned that Sallie did not tolerate the Bells, and her impression was that it would be disagreeable to invite them together; but she like Mrs. Marlby, was on visiting terms with almost every one, and how to manage without giving offence troubled her not a little." Ah, I have it now, Miss Harlow has just come. The Marlbys and Harlows are on friendly terms,-ah, yes, I can have a small sociable, and not give offence either. But the gentlemen-Winton must be one, but who else? Will Marlby, of course; how unfortunate that Linnie is gone; but who shall I invite?" At this juncture a note was handed by the servant. 
               "Who can this be from? What could be more opportune! my nephews, such handsome, brilliant young men; one can entertain Miss Harlow, the other, Isadore." The matter all quietly arranged to her satisfaction, Laura was summoned. Now, Mrs. Vincent was too politic to allow Laura to partake of the most distant allusion to what was passing in her mind, for her impression was that girls were sometimes self-willed, and took pleasure in thwarting the wishes of their parents. 
               "Laura, Miss Harlow has arrived; you must go this morning and call on her." 
               "Why, ma, she is a grown young lady, and I am sure she does not care anything about me." 
               "Laura, Laura, you are a grown young lady now, and I shall have to put a stop to your going down to Bells to these little dances." 
               "Oh, ma, do let me be a little girl, if I am to be deprived of so much pleasure; I do enjoy a little dance so much." 
               "But, Laura, your cousins are coming on the next train; here is a note from Milton." 
               "Oh, I am so glad; won't we have a nice time." 
               "Laura, do attend to me; go immediately and call on Miss Harlow, and when your cousins come, do try to be a little dignified, and don't mortify me by any awkward manners or anything of which your cousins would be ashamed." 
               The call was made; the cousins came; Mrs. Vincent was delighted, and Laura was in raptures. 
               The day was over, and Laura was again beside her mother. 
               "How much Milton has improved, Laura; he is so gay and fond of company; I shall endeavor to make his visit as pleasant as possible; to-morrow evening I shall have a small sociable." 
               "Oh, ma, I am so glad; but who is to be here?" 
               "Only the Harlows, Winton and the Marlby family." 
               "Oh, that will be so nice." 
               The party came off with great eclat, and gave entire satisfaction to the quiet Mrs. Vincent, and she had pleasant dreams that night, for it was her impression with a little, a very little management, it could be easily brought about. One thing she determined on-bringing Laura out. 
               Mrs. Vincent, although a great votary of dame fashion, loved to combine her own taste with Godey and Graham, thus, when either suggested buttons up the sleeve she put them around. She now moved about in all the dignity of cambric dishabille until the fashionable shopping hours; merchants and clerks were busy in bringing goods to the carriage; dear, good, fat widow, could not think of the fatigue of getting out; drive the bloom from her cheek; destroy the pet hope of marrying again, fostered with so much care; an old ami of a broker filled all her ideas of a husband; she wondered if ever he intended to propose; she having arrived at that age when woman sometimes lose the power of perception. Honi soit qui mal y pense.
                
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
                
                   
                     
                        "If you speak what you will, you shall hear what you dislike."
                      
                     BIAS. 
                   
                
               "GOOD morning, Oriana." 
               "Sallie, I see you and Isadore are not at the Springs, which all the town have gone crazy about." 
               "Thank you, Oriana; my health is very good. But those Springs are not without attraction; Mrs. Winthrop went out there once, analyzed the water, and pronounced it mineral-and, by the bye, I believe it is highly impregnated with sulphate of copper; that is the extent of their celebrity, until recently." 
               "Ah, Sallie, I knew you could never be so condescending-but persons in the medium circle, and of medium talent, no doubt find it very pleasant." 
               Mrs. Harlow was a woman of violent temper, with scarcely any tact or discretion whatever. But Major Harlow was a gentleman-one that stood high in U. S. Government, and she was indebted to this circumstance for a number of friends. 
               "I understand," said Mrs. Harlow, "that Gen. Winthrop is accused of dishonesty, and is failing fast." 
               "Who says so?" 
               "Mrs. Morven informed me." 
                
               "Indeed; Oriana-do you notice this-let there be any little bit of scandal, that is the theme of gossips, one's good qualities at once sink into insignificance, whilst a little foible, or by the treachery of an enemy, he is held forth to the censorious world, and crushed by the vile breath of calumny. Why will not one reflect before they dare impeach a man with dishonor? Is failure a mark of dishonor?" 
               Sallie plead shopping as an excuse for the shortness of her visit. When they were seated in the carriage, Sallie said, "Oh, Isadore, it is too bad, that Oriana will associate with Mrs. Morven, and repeat her slanderous gossip." 
               "Yes, Miss Sallie, I was so provoked at her speaking in that manner of Gen. Winthrop." 
               "But, Isadore, you should always remember the source; and let nothing that Mrs. Morven would say have any effect upon you whatever." 
               "Sallie Marlby and Winton are to be married soon," said Major Harlow, as he was leaving the room. 
               "Ah, indeed! Sallie was to see me a few days ago, and did not mention it." 
               And did you expect her to tell you?" said the Major laughing. 
               "I think she might have told me!" 
               This was a dear, interesting little piece of gossip; so unexpected! therefore, the more refreshing. Mrs. Harlow snatched up her bonnet, in her hurry overturned a vase of flowers arranged by her own especial maid-who cast a reproachful glance on her mistress, which, however, was lost on that lady, who only heard shrill voice calling her Katy, to bring a cloth to wipe off the marble. In a moment, Mrs. Harlow had crossed the passage; another, she stood at the back gate; and, a moment more, she was crossing a narrow dingy street. A hotel, with a sign that swung to and fro with every capricious breeze-a card, on which was engraved "M. D.," and signified, a fresh supply of that precious article, quinine. The street had known better days-a fact to which the tall Lombardy populars and evergreens testified, with its white gravel walks-casual observer might have noticed this, or one less occupied in thought than Mrs. Harlow. The old greasy looking house, with the paint long since washed off; and it was to this delapidated house, that stood in all the dust of summer, that she  steps. A slight breeze caused some little rain drops to fall  overhanging branches of the China and tall poplars, but  sang froid she hurried on and up the steps, and was  wide passage with a flight of steps; a door, with a 
                   enchantress, rust, and with several panes of glass broken out, which looked out on a back-yard, where flourished, in all their native luxuriance, the nettle, thistle, and other wild weeds. A willow, whose long pendant branches gracefully tipped the ground, and seemed altogether out of place with the broken crockery and such like old trumpery, as lay scattered about pell mell. The parlor, if deserving such appellation, was on the first floor. 
               "Why, Mrs. Harlow, is it you?" said a rather tall woman with large black eyes and glossy black hair, coming forward to meet her with a stick, and a black bottle, on which was inscribed, "none genuine unless signed Peter Lorillard." 
               "What are you doing with that bottle?" 
               "O shocking! and do you think you can thus impose on my credulity; make me believe you never saw any dipping! Here is a brush, try the Virginia weed!" 
               "What will ma say?" 
               "I am not going to tell her. Ma does not allow me to dip, but you see I do." 
               "Who is that?" 
               "I don't know. James' solitary horseman, I presume." 
               Now, of all the world, Mrs. Harlow was the most welcome guest to Mrs. Morven; they could enjoy a little bit of gossip to their hearts content; and in such an auspicious moment; it would certainly result propitiously. Each felt sure of a dear, interesting little piece of intelligence, that the other knew nothing about; but on this occasions, Mrs. Morven had a double piece, but intended to wait the result of circumstances to call forth intelligence, and clothe it in language accordingly. 
               "Is that a new fruit basket?" ventured Mrs. Harlow by way of prelude. 
               "No, indeed, ma gave me that; I never expect. Morven to buy me a silver basket; that is a relict of former days." 
               Mrs. Harlow remembered her pet theme, and that she brought an action against the whole world for her having outlived those better days; and knew she was indebted to her mind's eye for the sombre shade every object wore. It gave her an ample theme for displaying her unamiable disposition. "I suppose," she continued, "people think my mind goes no farther than this little back street, and these dingy walls and iron bolts. Mr. Morven need not tell me, he can do nothing better; and a grocer's wife-I hate the very name-I always associate liquors with the name, grocery! Mrs. Marlby called on me here; Mr. Morven wanted to know when I should return her call; I told him never; I did not wish society here." 
               Major Harlow thinks her a model of a housekeeper; she has her wines, pickles, preserves, jellies, all labelled, and everything goes on by machinery; whilst, poor me! I have to ring for Sue a time or two. But I am quite sure, I don't envy any one the culinary department, or wine manufactory either; it is altogether too much trouble for me." 
               "I am not at all surprised at Will Marlby's fondness for wine, since he can get it fresh from the home manufactory." 
               "Ah, it is a great pity, but I don't think Will drinks now; it has been a source of great grief to Mrs. Marlby-she is such an excellent woman, and so pious. But would not you think this snuff would make me sick?" 
               "O, no!" 
               "But I have tasted it before." 
               "I thought as much," said Mrs. Morven, archly. 
               "Do you wish some fruit to-day?" said a countryman without. 
               "Indeed I do, but Major Harlow is gone, and I have no change." 
               "I know he is," said Mrs. Morven, with a smile, "but I can accommodate you." 
               The fruit was bought. "Ah, that reminds me I have a box of fresh oranges and bananas, sent me by Ma. What, none? oh, do have some." Mrs. Harlow could not longer refuse, and each sat silent, apparently occupied with the fruit, but, in reality, meditating their plan of attack. Mrs. Harlow's secret paled into insignificance as she noticed a mischievous twinkle in the eye of Mrs. Morven, which signified she should pay interest for her information. Mrs. Morven saw she had touched the right key, and the one upon which every cord vibrated; therefore determined to make no further allusion until called on. 
               "Miss Marlby is to be married soon." This was not what Mrs. Harlow wanted to hear, and her only reply was-"Indeed." 
               "Oh, yes, and such a display as will be made at their house in town, will throws all previous performances in the shade. Gouzale is to be remodeled as a summer residence. Of course, she will send to New Orleans for her furniture, as every one else sends to the North; and she certainly won't have mahogany floors, and silver knobs, for this man out here has them." 
               "Yes, what was his name?" 
                
               "Oh, but you know where the house is, just three miles from town; he is dead now. But I saw Winton one day, when he was beautifully drunk; it was better than any theatre I ever saw; the fantastics were not a circumstance to him. But I am not surprised at Sallie's marrying a poor man, when every other girl is aiming at a rich one. I like her spirit." Jingle, jingle, went the dinner bell. "Only think to what I am subjected-that infamous bell, instead of a gong; and dining at twelve-real work hours." 
               "That reminds me I must hasten home; Major Harlow generally returns at twelve." 
               "No need of hurry on that account; the Major will not be at home so soon." 
               "Why, where is he?" 
               "Oh, I presume he is taking an airing with Mrs. Marlby." 
               "Mrs. Marlby?" 
               "Yes; don't look so blank, a wife is not obliged to be her husband's confidant." 
               "What do you mean?" 
               "Oh, nothing, my dear; only, from my upper window, that looks down on this plebeian street-that I would like to insure, and set on fire-I saw a servant hand him a note; he hurried off to her carriage, which was in waiting; then drove off. A charity visit, of course; but one of importance, otherwise she could not spare the time, as she is to arrange and superintend the bridal trusseau; which will be a combination of Northern material; which, by the way, is very condescending in her, with Southern ideas. Only think, seventeen new silks! with laces, ribbons and etceteras in accordance. But she positively refuses to go on a bridal tour, but has promised Mr. Winton to visit his relations during the season." 
               "Ah, indeed!" 
               "Oh, yes, I know it is so, for it come from the negroes at Marlby Villa." 
               Mrs. Harlow met her husband at dinner, in no amiable mood, and which she, by no means, endeavored to conceal. 
               "I hope you have had a pleasant drive this morning." 
               "Thank you; very, indeed." 
               "And pray, have you arranged the matter satisfactorily?" 
               "Allow me to refer you to your kind informer, since you know my repugnance to answering superfluous questions." 
               "Doubtless you consider mine superfluous; but Mrs. Morven saw you." 
                
               "And she is a woman without principle, if I am any thing of a physiognomist. Oriana, I wish you would not associate with her; do try and learn to separate merit from every thing else." 
               Mrs. Harlow arose from her evening siesta, went into the garden, gathered a quantity of flowers, sat down on the door-step, which was soon strewn with the flowers, in childish carelessness. "What a magnificent boquet." She took a seat by a window that looked out on the street, with the quaint market house. Carriages and wagons, and people, thronged the street, hurrying to and fro in all directions. But suddenly the Major's step was heard in the hall; he walked up to the secretary. 
               "You are evidently in great haste." 
               "Indeed, I am." 
               As he went out, he dropped a note, which read thus: "Be there precisely at nine; do not fail to keep the engagement." This relieved her ennui considerably, for she had grown excitable and suspicious, and this little circumstance, as many others, wherein larger might not avail, had a tendency to bring her mind to a decision. She was now very courageous. She could dare-brave any thing. She saw Dr. Bayles coming down the street; snatched her boquet, and sallied out. "Dr. Bayles, allow me to present this to you." 
               "I am very much obliged to you, madam" 
               "Will you allow me to chaperone you?" 
               "Certainly, madam." 
               "Laura, why in such haste; can you not spare a few moments with an old friend?" 
               "Excuse me, Ma has sent for me in a very peremptory manner, therefore I, her mandate, must obey." 
               Turning a corner they met Dr. Darville, to whom Dr. Bayles bowed courteously. 
               "Have you gotten over your spirit of resentment towards Dr. Darville, for slandering your fraternity?" 
               "Indeed, I have, madam; if ever I was weak enough to entertain such a spirit. We all have principles, Madam, often dormant, and of which we are not aware, until they are called forth by some revolution. We should endeavor, Madam, to subdue our weakness, cultivate every high sentiment; human life is imperfect. Be true to life, and how many imperfections there are. Look on the face of nature, and the giant oak, with its wide spreading branches; how charming is every little deformity." 
                
               Mrs. Harlow involuntarily sighed; she knew not why, but it came from some far off cell in her heart; and, strange to say, the Dr.'s words met a response in her own heart. They parted with mutual good wishes. 
               "Drive to-," said Mrs. Harlow, as she entered the carriage, enveloped in a long black cloak and vail; it had been drizzling rain, and the sky was fast covering with thick murky clouds, with only here and there a straggling star; a thick fog had settled all along the river. 
               "You have made no mistake about the arrangement of the room; you are sure I can see and hear." 
               "Quite sure, madam." 
               "Then I will rely on your judgment." 
               Mrs. Harlow paused to listen, yet no sound came but the wind with a short prophetic-like wail, then died into a moan. She had but one wish, one thought, and but one object before her in the long category of the future, but one sentiment formed within the heart. With a noiseless tread she drew near a little crevice in the ceiling. Winton sat in an easy chair, evidently engaged with a newspaper, two other persons were engaged in smoking and a political discussion, thus dividing the time, as the fumes of the smoke testified the latter not very delicious to the olfactory organ; at length Winton hemmed, "Could we not have that window raised?" 
               "It's raining," said Bell. 
               "Is it? But I am nearly suffocated with your Havana, and the dust of this carpet." 
               "It is well you added that; but, Darville, we have an engagement at nine. Here, Jerry-Jerry, I want my boots blacked;" after considerable polish the fastidious Bell saw a little defect in his boot, "Here, Jerry, rub that off; now," said Bell, throwing himself into a tragical attitude, 
                      
                        "Avaunt! and quit my sight; 
                        Let the earth hide thee; 
                        Thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold; 
                        Thou hast no speculation in those eyes 
                        Which thou dost glare with!" 
                     
                  
                
               "But where is Harlow; it is just a quarter to nine, and he so punctual." 
               "Oh, the inclemency of the weather," said Bell, who had resumed his seat. 
               "What an excuse." 
                
               "Well," said he, pulling up his standing collar, stretching out his foot, thereby giving majesty to his tall person, pointing out another little defect in his boot to Jerry, who, unlike the ghost of Banquo, had not been frightened off the stage, "since you will have it, there is his wife. When Milton was blind he married a shrew, but Harlow, with good eyes, to marry a shrew without a particle of sense is past my comprehension. I do not think she ever formed a sentiment, or had an original idea; she is a perfect nondescript, and besides, is very jealous. By way of illustrating her character: they were at the commencement, and she, without any apparent cause, announced her determination to return home, but it was extremely inconvenient for the Major to leave, consequently he showed his good sense by a positive refusal, and she could not come alone; whilst in this dilemma, fortunately for her, I received a, note that father was dangerously ill, which compelled Irene and myself to leave, and she left the Major there. But she had not the shadow of an excuse, only to provoke the Major. He cannot promise himself much happiness with that woman." 
               "You are severe," said Winton; "she is very young yet, and he is aware of her little imperfections, but is a gentleman." 
               Mrs. Harlow felt her courage gone, and had scarcely strength to support herself, she had heard enough for life, and turned away perfectly satisfied. The kind-hearted coachman, with his negro curiosity, had lost no word of the conversation, and deeply sympathised with his mistress. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Dear are the days of youth! Age dwells on the remembrance through the mist of time. In the twilight, he recalls the sunny hours of morn. Past is the race of heroes! but their fame rises on the harp; their souls ride on the wings of the wind! they hear the sound through the sighs of the storm, and rejoice in their hall of clouds! He looks down from eddying tempests, he rolls his form in the whirlwind; and hovers on the blasts of the mountain."
                      
                     BYRON'S IMITATION OF OSSIAN. 
                   
                
               "NO, he comes not! The night is all inky darkness! Howl on, ye winds; I hear your angry blasts-threatening this poor remaining pile of the D'Alvon's; this crumbling piece-meal, miserable haunt of rats and vermin-loathsome toads-that dare infest the crumbling pillars! this old tottering wreck of shattered fortune that remains to the proud name of D'Alvon! this rubbish of rotten plank-these horrid holes-broken glass-old screeching doors-rusty hinges-old bars and bolts! But we'll tear you down; these old cobwebs! oh, you delicate fabric that cling to the hall of a D'Alvon! Ha-ha, come on, ye winds; howl down the broken stairs; rush out of the windows through the cracks! You old house, Linnie will tear you dawn! Ah, we'll have a lordly mansion! no little modern structure, peeping from among gnarly, weather-beaten trees! but an antique one; with terraces, columns, and marble, like olden times, and we'll have a carriage and horses to match; and it shan't be one bucket and a broken plate; but we'll have silver, and wine, and goblets, and silver candlesticks; no greasy candle, or nauseous lamp, shall throw its sickly rays over handsome Linnie, my lady's son! And I'll have my basket with my keys; ah! we'll have wine in silver goblets; and ice, and fruit, and cake shall line our pantry shelves. And we'll have no factory cloth, but of Irish woof and warp; and no old green gown for me with patches, torn and threadbare, but a new silk with bows and buttons. But the child, my grandchild, must have bread; and Linnie says he must have books. I say he must have a coat, and Linnie says he must go to school. But my child must have bread; and I must mend his threadbare coat. Linnie's money bought him books, and Linnie's money bought him bread. I could not tell him I did not buy the coat; I could not see the child starve. Linnie says, he must have books; and I say he must have bread! But, sigh on, ye winds; we'll teat down these ruined walls; we'll bring you level with the ground, and have rooms; and I'll not move my chair to keep out the sickening sun or winter rains." 
               Linnie stopped short, a smile of ineffable scorn was on that beautiful lip, and from the dreamy depths of those dark eyes, there flashed a sudden fire; so fierce was that glance the old housekeeper quailed beneath it. 
               Linnie removed his hat, and smoothed out the curls of his jetty hair, which were wet with the drizzling rain. 
               The wind came again with a low sweeping sound, then raised high, and, with a sudden gust, blew open the door, and scattered; the ashes on the ragged floor. She fastened the door with a wooden bolt, but spoke not, till Linnie said in a soft voice-"A severe night, aunt Lola; 
               I hope you don't have many such." 
               "Few such nights as this." 
               "I wish I could make you more comfortable, aunt Lola." 
               "You will one of these days." 
               "Did you expect me?" 
               "Ah, yes; you had said you would come." 
               The snow-white cloth was laid, with the broken plate, the little luxuries of ham and bread, with tea and cakes, and white sugar, "for Linnie could not drink tea with brown sugar;" and wine! "ay, it is the last bottle from your father's cellar, I found hid away among the rubbish. Ay, drink Linnie-long life and success to the proud structure that shall yet rear itself to the prouder name of D' Alvon." 
               Linnie touched the glass to his lips, then set it down. "Thank you, aunt Lola, but I cannot drink; I have resolved never to drink again." 
               "But you are sad and weary-this wine will do you good-ay, drink! it is the last from your father's cellar-you will not refuse-drink long life and better days!" 
               Linnie drank the wine! 
               "We'll build Firara up again! throw out the old bell from the crumpled leaves; and the great long grass, we'll tear you up by the roots; and we'll have fields and meadows, and fishes and cisterns." 
               Linnie's eyes glared wildly, his lips were compressed, while he hised through his teeth, "Woman, will you drive me mad?" 
               Again she stood motionless, and cowed beneath the magic of his eye, until Linnie spoke in a peculiar pathetic voice- 
               "Aunt Lola, that fierce lightning and the rain comes in under the door." 
               "Have some more wine, Linnie?" 
               "No, thank you, aunt Lola; wine is a curse! Look at the misery and degradation caused by this maelstrom of iniquity, which has impoverished our land." 
               Linnie walked into his room; pre-occupied as he was in thought, he could not but notice the snowy whiteness of the drapery, the massive hangings, discolored by time, and several little mementos of other days. A guitar, old and tuneless, lay before him; but in it there was a poetry, for it had been his mother's! Linnie mused: 
               "In every age, as the years come trooping by, there is a poetry-a soul that etherealises and refines-separates dross from gold. As these myriads of scenes come rushing by from the dark and turbid ocean of the past, we stand as a garner by the long pent up walls of memory, separating mind from matter; these sprigs of memory are all rife with poetical associations; and from the mildew of the miserable past, we gather a dewy freshness." 
               He gazed "long and dreamily" into the past, until every chord was touched and strung by a host of recollections. Again, we tread on the ashes of the mighty dead; we see the ancientsarrayed in all their grotesque and classical magnificence. The Cesar's and Ptolomies recede-then a Bonaparte-the weary tramp through the burning sands-the Battle of the Pyramids! Then a sigh for those Arcadian groves, where Isadore, the Egeria of his creation, invariably stood before him-then, on, on-with Mazeppa-like swiftness, gliding with Childe Harold over the deep blue sea. 
               "Ah, yes, 'tis the rustle of the winds! sweep on, through the long grass of Firara; through the tangled vines; scatter the moss on the great big trees. But hark! 'tis the bark of a dog; ay, tis my Linnie's dog! Yes-open, you old door! Wet, dripping wet; come out from under the leaves-come in! Ay, yes, crossed the old ragged step. Yes, my Linnie's dog, shall have some supper! Yes, the storm's over, and the old gray pile, with its speckled rocks, has a lonesome look. You mighty stream, I hear your sound; your angry roar-like home, far off home. But ay, I'll never be there again! No, no-I would not leave my lady's son. My lady's daughter loves fashion; and I love Linnie! She loves her great big house; and I love this, my Linnie's home. Yes, you old ruined pile, with your wilderness of weeds." 
               Linnie's revery was interrupted by the old housekeeper. 
               "Ay, Linnie, yes, so like your mother; and there-that old guitar-my lady brought from France-they have no such here-the strings are broken, no music in them now. Ay, yes, well I remember when your father came-a handsome, noble student that he was-when he came to Paris. And when they were married, I could not part with my lady, but would follow her-ay, yes, across the ocean! but ay, Linnie, these old eyes will never see that home again! Ay, we were happy once! yes once, at this old summer house; ay, those were happy times. Your mother loved to quit the gaiety of her city home for the quiet of this spot. But ay, those happy times will come again; for you will build Firara up again; ay, yes, again!" 
                
               Linnie sighed to think that miserable wreck of a house was all that remained to him of his father's once princely fortune. 
               Next morning, when Linnie awoke, the sun cast a cheerful light through the shattered lattice; his coffee stood before him on a little antique table of massive mahogany. By some means, a small bronze statue of Bonaparte had fallen from the mantel. 
               "Poor Bony! poor Bony!" said aunt Lola, as she replaced it. 
               Linnie could not help smiling at the reverential awe with which she gazed on these statues of Bonaparte and Lafayette. 
               The coffee was unfinished, when a note was thrust in his hand." 
               "Ay, it is another misfortune!" said aunt Lola, as she read it on his countenance." 
               "Ah, it is but too true." 
               A few moments' preparation was all that was necessary. On-ont went the spirited animal, but did not keep pace with the lightning rapidity of his thoughts. The messenger came too late! the vital spark had fled! the spirit had gone to the God who gave it. On the high intellectual forehead, death had scattered her dews! There was no light in those eyes! Death-death! had swallowed up thy young life, and claimed thy spirit! so hopeful, so fraught with every high and noble impulse. An overtaxed mind, a thirst for platonic learning, had brought on brain fever which soon terminated his life. 
               The sister drew near, and closed the eyes of the dead; no rude hand should touch the face of that loved and cherished one! Such tears as a sister can shed fell on the cold face, as she combed back the raven hair from his temple. 
               Ah, it is hard, so hard, to give thee up, thou loved and cherished one! Thy young life seemed as if just begun! Did not long years of happiness and fame stretch themselves before thee? but now thou art gone, loved one! 
               Even now, while we write, we would drop a tear to thy memory! Ah, yes, 'tis a bitter tear! Thy soft voice can never soothe or cheer me! too deeply we feel this for words! 
               The sister's lips were pressed to those of the corpse, and blinding tears prevented her noticing the entrance of Linnie, followed by her daughter Grace, with large dreamy eyes, and much her mother's cast of countenance, with the same raven hair, characteristic of the family. Linnie, silent and with a noiseless tread moved, to the couch whereon his brother lay. 
               "Linnie-oh, Linnie!" 
                
               "Why, oh why, this bitter stroke?" 
               "The will of God, Linnie." 
               Grace drew near and stood in silent awe, for the husky voice of Linnie had startled the dreamy depths of those eyes, and the same fire and intelligence which characterized him sparkled in hers. 
               The man of God came. The funeral was over. The grass of summer had strewn his grave; and there the blast of winter had owled. 
               Farewell, loved one! we have gazed on thee for the last time; and in future years, if we should visit the spot, it may be, with a heart more tried with care and suffering; we may wish to lie down and sleep beside you. 
               "There is a path which no fowl knoweth, and which the vulture's eye hath not seen." 
               "The lion's whelps have not trodden it, nor the fierce lion passed by it." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
                
                  
                      
                        "The world has" not "kindly dealt, mother, 
                        By the child thou lov'st so well;" 
                        "Then I am very sad, mother, 
                        I'm very sad and lone." 
                     
                   
                
               ISADORE was again at the old brown rock where she and Linnie had last met. 
               "Oh, Linnie! why, why is it that we are separated? But, ah, it is a pleasure to know 'that the same sun' rises to you and to me-'that we gaze on the same moon'-and that the same wind which breathes its spiritual intelligence into my ears, may, in its wild and lawless wanderings, have sighed around your distant dwelling." And she brushed away the tears, and said joyously, "But soon, soon, he come again!" As Isadore raised her head, she was surprised to dark eyes gazing intention her, and she turned from the rock with a proud step. 
               Vincent had seen her emotion, and was prepared to sympathise with her, but here was no cause for sympathy; there was something so lofty in her glance, yet it was a glance all womanly, and in her eye was a soul that spoke of immortality. 
               The stranger bowed and passed on; Isadore resumed her drawing, but hearing voices she raised her head in the direction from whence the sound came. 
               "What is the matter, uncle?" 
               "Oh, massa, I ain't got quite the strength to lift this." 
               The wood had fallen and partly precipitated the cart; uncle Mose seemed to be writhing under his burden; this circumstance caused her to forget the presence of the stranger, and acting on the impulse of the moment, was not long in making her way to the scene of difficulty. The stranger had thrown aside his gloves and was assisting the old negro to raise his cart. Uncle Mose returned a bevy of thanks, and was about to lift the wood. 
               "Stop, uncle Mose," said Isadore, "that wood is too heavy for you to lift; see, some of the negroes are coming now." Much as Isadore admired the spirit which prompted Vincent to assist the old negro, she could not suppress a smile at the ridiculous figure he made; for in attempting to lift a stick, of the wood it had fallen back into a pool of muddy water and splashed in his face and over his clothes. When she spoke Vincent had turned to look at her, and thought such hair, such eyes, such a transparent complexion, such a spiritual beauty, so far removed from every day life, unsought, unasked. Such a vision had burst upon him, clad in pure white, with a simple jessamine trailing amid her luxuriant curls, this wood-nymph, a composition of grace and elegance to his fanciful imagination; for never in his most lofty conceptions; never had he dreamed of rarer beauty than hers; her every movement seemed to separate her from the common mind; he was sure she was not low born. Uncle Mose's misfortune, and the lofty bearing of Vincent, had put to flight a long train of ceremony. His hands were soiled with the mud, and Isadore called to a servant who was passing with water, and seizing the gourd was soon busy pouring water on his hands. 
               "With all due respect for your occupation, nevertheless, I cannot regret the misfortune of uncle Mose since it has been the means of introducing me to so generous an acquaintance." 
               "Such misfortunes are not irreparable," Isadore replied. 
               As he handed her the drawing, which she had dropped on the ground, to engage in her unromantic occupation, he expressed a wish to look at it. 
               "Certainly, look at it if you wish." 
               It was a hut; the group, an Indian mother and her children, beside a rock washed by a little stream. 
               "Are you partial to the Indians?" 
               "Yes, rather so." 
               "I deeply sympathize with them; ah, yes, visit their favorite haunts, we see their spectral forms, hear the splash of water from their light feathery oar; see the fanciful wreathes of smoke curling from the wigwam, the dying embers; mother and child know they shall never cross the stream again; no sigh, no tear, no groan, escapes them. Ah, their dusky forms are fast gliding into obscurity with a slow, certain tread. On, on, and when the last of this wandering remnant shall have crossed over, and the wanderers are gathered home, then, then, shall Jerusalem be builded up." 
               "Oh, accept it if you will." 
               With a bow, he asked, "To whom am I indebted for this specimen of genius." 
               Just then a thought of her uncle flitted through her brain, and the aristocratic ceremonies required to pass the Marlby gates, and she replied, "I may be a Zingarilla, and perhaps your interest would die with the knowledge of my name." 
               "My interest in you would not so easily die." 
               "Gentlemen can flatter." 
               "Ah, and am I so condescending?" 
               She wrote on the corner of the drawing 'M. Louisa Lee.' He gave her his card, and what she knew before, 'Arthur Vincent.' 
               "I should like to attend you." 
               "Thank you; it would be better not. But I am such a lover of nature, I love to steal here, from all but my own thoughts, and listen to the wave sweeping over the rocks; do look! those grotesque rocks, are they not beautiful as they rise up in pyramidical view, with its sprinkling of moss and cedars; then that coquetish whirl." 
               Isadore walked away, and was soon within the great gate that led to the Villa. On arriving there she was surprised to find Sallie sitting on the front steps, the haughty head resting on her hands, the proud spirit humbled; she reached forth her hand to greet her, but tears prevented her farther utterance; Isadore could comprehend all at a glance; yes, she knew that Nina, Sallie's nurse, was gone; the spirit had fled, the sable hue was exchanged for the pale of death, and she was brought home to lay the long sleep of death, and mingle her dust with that of her sable people. And Sallie, the petted and spoiled child of her mother, was reminded that she too was dust. 
               Just then the little governess appeared, flourishing her worsted, the design consisting of a little boy, with cap in hand, mounted on a pony threading the long grass of an immense plain, with some little antique buildings in the distance, and to use her own words, "was the most perfect thing she ever saw." Now she had many conjectures as to what could be the matter with Mrs. Winton, "she had only been married four months, and now can it be they have had one of those little quarrels? and besides, she had noticed that Southern ladies were not so systematic or industrious as they are North, or perhaps,-ah, yes, those black creatures have annoyed her." Now she was somewhat on the qui-vive where Sallie was from, the fact of her having been educated North; but seeing her tears, she hastily withdrew to her own room and the enjoyment of her solitary conjectures and worsted work. But great was her astonishment when her long train of suppositions were put to flight by learning that it was only Sallie's black nurse dead. 
               Arthur Vincent moved rather mechanically to the table. 
               "Bring me a cup of coffee;" oh, it was horrid! He then called for a cup of tea; that was intolerable. "Bring me a glass of water;" he mixed it with no better success. 
               "Why, Uncle, you are fastidious," said Laura. 
               "Arthur, I am fearful you are not well," said kind Mrs. Vincent. 
               "Quite well, I assure you, though somewhat fatigued." 
               "O, Laura, I had forgotten to tell you, Mrs. Vincent called this morning, and insists upon your accompanying her to Gonzale." 
               "O, ma, I am delighted!" 
               "Laura, Laura!" 
               "O, ma, I know you will let me go; you cannot refuse!" 
               "Laura, I have promised to let you go; but the stipend is this: you are to return next week. Will is to go down in a few days, and Mrs. Winton has promised me that he shall bring you and Isadore home the last of next week." 
               Mrs. Vincent's impression was, that when girls were away from home, they were sometimes careless, therefore, she was very strict in enforcing the rules of her discipline. 
               Arthur walked out on the piazza-thoughts of the beautiful Zinga. rilla filled his brain-she had woven a gossamer work of such delicate texture around his heart; it was an artful web, yet woven in the ingenuity of her nature. 
               Another evening he determined to visit the spot hallowed by this wood-nymph, but her sylph-like figure was nowhere to be seen, to give beauty to the scene. 
               Again, and again, he went, but with no better success; in about two weeks from his first meeting with her, he had gone again, scarcely hoping to meet her, and was marking the places she admired, when he saw her, mounted on the most beautiful pony imaginable; in a black riding dress, with a cap and dancing plume, that waved with every coquetish toss of her head. If she had appeared lovely to him on a former occasion, she was certainly more enchanting now, as she spoke to him in her own peculiar graceful style, for it certainly belonged to none other than herself. Each had gone hoping to see the other, yet each feigned surprise. 
               "Let me offer my congratulations that you arrived safe, after refusing my presumptuous gallantry." 
               "I, like the brave Gheber, am yet unharmed, and regret we did not live in the good old feudal times, then I should not have been the slave of circumstance, and under the necessity of refusing the attention of so gallant a knight as yourself. How I hate this clipt propriety! But is it not delightful to be here? I hope you do not think that, in order to exhilerate our spirits, we are obliged to be fanned by a sea breeze! how many little sources of enjoyment which we should not despise on account of their humility! But do look at the wave of yonder mighty pine! is it not beautiful?" 
               How purely spiritual she looked; he dare not approach one so exalted as herself with his love. 
               "I am not surprised that you should avoid society; but a mind like yours cannot feel isolation, though you were shut out from all the world." 
               "Oh, I am very happy! I like the life of a wandering Zingarilla! Just now floating on the surface, not knowing where the tide will drift me; and trying to glean a little from the practical world! But I must be gone! When can I see you again?" 
               "In the course of time!" 
               "She cantered off, and left the infatuated Arthur gazing after her; he turned, and with a stealthy step, strode on; then gazed at an old tree. 
                
               "Do you believe in magnetism," said Bell, driving up at full speed; "come, get in!" 
               How he wished to tell Bell of his interview; but how could he speak of her? there was humiliation in the thought! Here was the love he had pictured to his imagination in reality. 
               "Have you seen Isadore?" querried Bell, as they passed by Marlby Villa. 
               "No!" What cared he for Isadore; there was but one name that had a charm for him-that was "Louisa." 
               "Why, Arthur, you have grown quite savage on the island; trying to ape the Hamlet, I guess! But I wonder you don't want to see Isadore." 
               "Oh, I remember her. I am going over to see her one of these days." 
               "Her father," continued Bell, "was a poor adventurer from Virginia; and, it seems, that for a long while, the Marlby's had forgotten the existence of her mother; notwithstanding she traced her ancestry back, I believe, even to royalty itself; several of her relations having flourished extensively in history; and, I suppose this is the platform Mr. Marlby builds his aristocracy on; for I am sure it is not his own family, for they have never been distinguished for anything but their broad lands; and no doubt Mr. Marlby feels this, as he seems to attach so much importance to family. But, to tell you the truth, Arthur, Isadore is a brilliant girl, and a certain little governess at Marlby Villa, will vouch for her high blood." 
               Arthur Vincent had heard a portion of this harangue, and, not unlike his sister-in-law, began to believe that she, too, might be of some importance; although he remembered that honors were not hereditary here; that genius, in America, was the passport to fame! 
               There was an entertainment of tableaux; oppressed with ennui, Arthur Vincent stalked in. The curtain fell on one scene after another-then, a dark brunette, in the character of an Highland Lassie; loud was the applause until she came again-it was only Laura! The next, with a gay skirt-long streaming hair-a flushed cheek, and flashing eye-as the heroic Pocahontas. Yes! there was his Louisa! it was no dream. 
               "Arthur, are you not going to Marlby Villa to the party?" said Mrs. Vincent, as she sat in her easy chair, gracefully fanning herself. 
               "Not I, indeed" 
               "That would be an insult to Isadore." 
                
               "Why, uncle Arthur, Isadore is beautiful; if you were to see her once"- 
               The name sounded in harsh discord with his Louisa, and he answered, "Oh, I have seen her often." 
               "But Arthur, you will go to the party. But what do you think of my sending Laura off to school? After my husband's death, I could not bear to part with her; consequently, I have had her educated at home. But really, Arthur, she spends so much of her time at Marlby Villa; much to my chagrin, I find her French, music, and drawing, sadly neglected-not that I have any objection to the Marlby family, but I fear she is not only injuring herself, but sadly interfering with Isadore's studies." 
               "Why, ma, Isadore is no longer under the espionage of Miss Warren; Ada is her especial charge." 
               "Will is a handsome youth," said Arthur. 
               "Yes, quite a clever young man," said Mrs. Vincent. "He has been wild, but my impression is, that he is very much changed since he came home." 
               Arthur strolled out again, but no Louisa did he see. The gas-lights were already twinkling in the city. He would conform to fashion! Who was this Isadore? Some statue of the order of Mammon! but he would go!" 
               As Arthur ascended the steps, he saw a trio promenading-they stopped short-and, evidently, awaited his coming. He recognized the voice of Laura and Will; a moment more, and he was introduced; his eyes fell full on the face of Laura, and he half muttered, "stupid man!" 
               "How is your 'friend,' Mrs. Winton?" said Isadore. 
               "Her health is very good, I thank you. She was kind enough to diner with me on yesterday. The first course of dinner being removed, she said to me, 'Why is the Queen of England like the locomotive?' This was certainly past my comprehension; when she triumphantly said, 'Because she carries a train after her!' Only think, Isadore, of anything half so vulgar as a conundrum? I laughed, which laugh she mistook for an acknowledgment of her wit. And during dessert, while Mr. Winton and her husband were engaged in apolitical discussion, she played with her knife and fork, making sundry experiments in the art of legerdemain-for my especial entertainment, I presume-and you may be sure, I felt exessively flattered by her condescension." 
                
               A few evenings after this, Isadore, returned from a ride, went in at the back gate, and up a flight of stairs into the passage. 
               Will was lounging on a settee. "Mon cher, cousin, we are going to have company to tea." 
               "Parlez moi, Anglais toujours, mais qui?" 
               "Mon ami, connaissez vous I'bomme dout je parle!" 
               "How should I know? But allow me to offer my congratulations, since you know a whole sentence in French, I'll pay a visit to the kitchen; however, allow me to beg you will reserve your French, and other murdered languages for Miss Warren, and others, who can appreciate them; but in plain English, who is your friend?" 
               "Arthur Vincent. But how do you exist without Linnie?" 
               "I must confess it is bad to see the crowds of frozen humanity; these specimens of the polar regions, covered with silks, laces, and flounces, followed by a long train of hats, caps, and walking sticks." 
               Isadore was soon down in the dining room. "Nora, do bring a light-oh, Egypt-how dark! I hope it is no poor cake." 
               "Just look, Miss Isadore, its Austrian cake." 
               "Yes, that is nice." 
               Isadore went from thence into the kitchen, where plates of butter, cakes, muffins, ham, and biscuit were piled up in systematic order. "Milly, why don't you cook on the stove?" 
               "Miss Isadore, I don't like a stove, no sich yankee notions; old missus had just as good victuals as anybody-she never had no stove." 
               "You say mas' Will going to have company?" 
               "Yes, mammy, Arthur Vincent; he is from the West Indies." 
               "Me hate dem foriners; I 'spec he some abolitionist." 
               "Oh, no, he is brother to Mr. Vincent." 
               "Miss Laura's uncle?" 
               "Yes, mammy." 
               "I know him eber since he bin a little boy. Well, well, since Miss Sallie married and gone, and you be in dat town so much, somehow I never hears much; and dat Miss Warren she comes to de spring where de gals washin', and she say she wrote home de way dey do clothes here; dey puts dem on a stump and gits a stick to um; making fun of de way we do here. Now we don't like dat, nor her noder." 
               "Ah, mammy, Miss Warren is a nice young lady." 
               "She very nice, but me don't like her; but Miss Isadore you look so like your poor mother; she had a heap of troubles; I hope you won't have so many." 
                
               Isadore turned aside to hide her tears; her mind wandered far back; the dim outlines of a house, a prayer she remembered, God in his mercy spared the life of a dear friend. Mother! so many memories cluster around the word. 
                      
                        "My mother's voice! 
                        How often creep its accents o'er my sad and lonely hours. 
                         
                        I can forget her melting prayer, 
                        While mad'ning pulses quickly fly; 
                        But in the still unbroken air, 
                        Her gentle tones come rushing by: 
                        And years, and sin, and manhood flee, 
                        And leave me at my mother's knee." 
                     
                  
                
               After tea-the company gone-Isadore was summoned, and soon appeared in the august presence of Mr. Marlby, who, strange to say, was very intent on examining the covering of some books; for she knew he felt no interest in the contents; the twelve Csars were nothing to him, or if their shades arose occasionally before him, they were always enveloped in a murky sea of mist, and as dead Pompeii before the excavation, something far off and forgotten. He now seemed the quintessence of amiability as he turned to greet her. In any perplexing circumstance he was noted for his brevity. "Do pardon this late interview, but Mr. Demot has made certain propositions requesting your hand." 
               With a flashing eye, and withering scorn depicted on her countenance, while her lips refused to speak other words than "Indeed." 
               "Yes, he is rich; I take a philosophical view of everything; consider the matter and let me have your answer." 
               "I have considered, and you can have it now; 'no.'" 
               "And why not?" 
               "For-" 
               "None of your nonsensical love tales, borrowed from some phrenzied author; I know Petrarch wrote a great deal of poetical humbug about his Laura; expatiated about a love and beauty which lasted twenty years. I know you and Linnie were engaged, and I regret his dissipation; hear me," as she rose to retire, "I had rather see you dead than married to Linnie; would any inducement cause you to marry a man that drinks?" 
               Isadore threw herself into a chair, weeping; the haughty look had passed away. 
               "Yes, marry Demot." 
                
               "Uncle, never! I detest, I scorn, the low born rich," gaining all her self command, and the same look of scorn and hauteur. 
               "Consider what you are doing; you may rue this years hence; I know that temper-'tis your mother's." 
               She swept out of the room, disdaining an answer. A soft pathetic voice fell on her ear-it was Will in the music room; thither she went, and up to him; he took her hand gently within his own, and tears rushed from her eyes. "Isadore, has any one dared?" he ground his teeth, and raised his arm in a threatening attitude. 
               His fierce look calmed her, and she said, "Oh, I, like you, am impulsive; but you have heard of Linnie?" 
               "Of his dissipation? yes, it is too true." 
               That might-a dark night in her existence-tears stole silently down her cheeks; for she could love none other than Linnie. It was a love that had grown with her life-a thread woven in her existence, and to break it were to take all but life itself. 
               "Am I a burden to uncle? oh, bitter humiliating thought. Is there nothing left me but sorrow and a life of wretchedness?-for well do I feel that one gleam of happiness can never come to me in other love save that of Linnie." 
               Time sped on. A letter was thrust in her hand, which ran thus: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "MISS ISADORE-
                            
                           I have received your two last favors, each of which filled me with emotions of pain and pleasure. I was rejoiced to think you still remembered me in kindness, and spoke to me in the endearing language of friendship, yet I am grieved and painfully afflicted to think I am still so unworthy of your confidence and affection; I could not answer your letter as I wished to have done-I could not say to you what my heart required me to say. My situation in life forbid I should ask you to join your destiny and affections with me; and more, whilst I am too poor, and too unfortunate, to protect and award you in a manner you so richly deserve and fondly merit. 
                           The only pleasure I now have, is the fond remembrance of my lovely friend, my generous confidant, whose gentle heart and kind affections, I have ever prayed might you be mine; and when I see your kind letters, the happy, the long hoped for may come,-yes, it must come, when you and I shall be one only friend and dear companions in life's weary road. 
                           Everything that is calculated to distress the spirits of a man, or to throw gloom and despair around his future happiness in life, it seems, daily surrounds me and my prospects. You know I have been thrown on this world without a farthing, and almost without a friend. I had given up to dispair and utter ruin, but time has changed my feelings and determination; I have now given up my follies and reckless dissipation; I have determined to be myself again; and my dear friend, I shall not be ashamed to write to you, nor to speak those words which my crushed feelings and wounded heart forbid me until then to utter. When I speak of love, of you, and your faithful friendship to me, my words shall not be shrouded in misery, want, and despair, but with a fervent hope of happiness and success in my future life. It would be unmanly in me, yes, savage ernelty, to offer you my heart and affections; but my dear friend, I entreat you to bear with me a few short months; I am resolved to work day and night to prove myself worthy of you. 
                           You ask me if I have forgotten you? Oh, how can I forget you? In all my darkest hours, in all my miseries, when all the world seemed against me, and misfortunes gathering on every side, I then cast my eyes to the lov'd spot of earth, that claimed as my angel thee; then my heart again returns, when I remember you are still my friend. And if fortune casts one smile upon me, then I shall thank heaven for its kindness, and claim you as my own fond friend, and my last hope of happiness in this world. 
                           
                              Yours, 
                              LINNIE.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               After reading this kind, though sad, letter, the spirits of Isadore revived-she was hopeful, and her confidence in Linnie was unbroken. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "And this the world calls frenzy; but the wise 
                           Have a far deeper madness, and the glance 
                           Of melancholy is a fearful gift; 
                           What is it but the telescope of truth? 
                           Which strips the distance of its phantasies; 
                           And brings life near in utter nakedness, 
                           Making the cold reality too real!"- 
                        
                      
                     BYRON. 
                   
                
               "WELL!" said Bell, "did you ever hear any thing half so disgusting as Mrs. Morven's attempt of the ridiculous-comparing Mrs. Davis to the witch of Endor! poor creature, she only rendered herself ridiculous." 
               "Yes; I think it was rather a poor attempt at sarcasm," said Springer, setting down his glass of wine. 
               "As soon as she got her fortune, her and the grocery keeper set out on a tour to the North, and having visited Montreal and Niagara, returns, and expects every body to visit her." 
                
               "A very interesting subject for conversation, young gentleman," said Irene, laughing; "by the bye, I had the pleasure of meeting her at Mrs. Harlow's. She came in, followed by a servant carrying her oriental paintings in a very ostentatious style; I admired them very much, but in the mean time remarked, 'that our pastry cook, Mrs. Brown, had some beautiful specimens!' and you should have seen her look of mortification." 
               "Lucky hit, that old uncle dying and leaving all his money to her! Some of her relatives are wealthy; but pshaw, she's nothing." 
               Just then, the voice of Mrs. Bell was heard calling out, "Tasso! where is my son Tasso?" 
               "Yes," chimed in Irene, as Bell was leaving the table, "I believe that Mrs. Harlow is the only one who knew any thing about her, previous to her getting her fortune." 
               Springer, heartily disgusted, gladly withdrew; for, although he acknowledged the ties of relationship with the Bells, yet there was not congeniality, or sympathy of soul wherewith to unite them. For his eye flashed with the fire of genius; and slave as he was to the wine cup, he could not condescend to partake of the littleness of "small talk!"-to blazon forth to public ridicule the weakness and follies of humanity. 
               "And this is life!" muttered Isadore, whose cheek was paler than when we last saw her, two short years ago; her eye had lost something of its brilliancy; and there was not elasticity in her step, which was slow and measured. In the face once so beautiful, sorrow, care and anxiety was plainly depicted. The rich brown tresses were combed back plain. But when her eye kindled, there was the same intelligence which had settled into a look of stern pride; and when she spoke, there was a haughtiness in her tone, and a smile of scorn played on her lip-very unlike the Isadore of other days; not that this principle was not there, for it had been inherited; but had lain dormant, only waiting time and circumstance to develop it. She had never loved other than Linnie; and his dissipation, and apparent neglect, she attributed to misfortune, not to a want of love for her; no, no. Had Linnie and her been married, all would have gone well. Poverty, misfortunes, she could have borne without a murmur; but this disappointment, the loss of him, all that she cared or lived for, was too much; it was an idea long and secretly cherished, that grew up with her from childhood; he was lost! what was life worth? what were the claims of "society" to her? the so-called "friends?" Society was too hollow, she could not mix in its shallow depths! "Her thoughts were not their thoughts;" there was nothing in common with them, but settled into an apathy, a proud misanthrope. That on which her heart had leaned, had been removed, and she sank beneath the blow with a crushed and broken heart! Summoning all her pride, she endeavored to cheat the world, but found this was not sufficient to cheat herself; for in her shut and silent heart, his image was buried. The name was sacred! 
               Isadore did not know her last letter to Linnie had been thrown in the fire by the ingenius Sallie; not that she wished to injure either, but it did not "look well" to correspond with a dissipated man. 
               "Why, Isadore, you have not been married a year, and really you look like it might be ten!" 
               "Do I, indeed?" 
               "But where have you kept yourself; I have been wanting to see you so much; but they have all been sick at our house." 
               "I have been to the plantation; just come home yesterday; but have you decided on going to Winthropville?" 
               "Yes; Mr. Winton insists on my going; but is Laura going with us?" 
               "Indeed, I do not know; I have not seen her in a day or two; she went to Marlby Villa this morning." 
               The door bell rang; a servant announced Miss Warren; "Show her in!" said Isadore. 
               Miss Warren entered very slightly on the "qui-vive," for she had become familiar with Mrs. Winton. "Isadore," said she, "I have brought you Madam Sontag's waltz; I have just received it from the North." 
               "Thank you; please try it!" said Isadore, with the most perfect sang froid, carelessly rocking herself. 
               "I see you have at length finished your painting, and it is certainly the most perfect thing I ever saw." 
               "Yes, I finally finished it to please Mr. Vincent; but I have an aversion to all kinds of work." 
               "But oh, the Grecian style is so beautiful," said Sallie, "I should think you would not so soon weary of it; but since you don't love to work, what do you like?" 
               "To read!" 
               "Read what?" 
               "Poetry! Milton's Paradise Lost, and the Pleasures of Hope." 
               It was noon in the village, when the cars stopped at the depot. Some persons were lounging on boxes-in the piazzas, which were dry and dusty-others under the dense trees, wherever there was a shade to protect them from this scorching sun of the South-seemed to be the object of man, beast and creeping things, to evade this burning sun. 
               They were ushered into the reception, amid the hurry and bustle of servants, all anxious to contribute to their comfort. 
               Gen Winthrop, for a wonder, was at home; he spending most of his time at his plantation in an adjoining State. Hetty was a combination of gaiety and eccentricities; or, in other words, did not confine herself to a clipt propriety; but was famous for her independence of character. "Isadore," said she, after paying her respects to the rest of the company, "It may not be very polite to monopolize your attention, but let us go out on the piazza;" and Isadore, putting her arm within hers, she led the way to the back piazza. "Here, have this chair! Oh! don't you remember how happy we used to be here!" 
               Isadore did remember, but too well; and thoughts, gentle thoughts, of her mother came stealing on. 
               "Here comes Mrs. Ward, to whom you will be excessively polite, from the fact of her having been to Washington once-New Orleans twice-Mobile three times, and from thence to pa's plantation-where she caught Mr. Ward. Its my time next-the English go to London market, but to show you how strictly republican I am-I shall go to pa's plantation!" 
               Mrs. Ward stood before them; her extravagant dress and haughty manner contrasting strangely with Hetty's flow of spirits, as she disdained other answer than "for shame, Hetty!" as she swept by in a rich dinner dress, slightly trailing, her eyes raised, as if there was nothing on earth worth looking at. 
               "Why, Sue, you have certainly been raised at the frigid zone! Do let me bring you shawl to match that dress!" said Hetty, calling after her. 
               "Only think, Isadore, my first and last attempt to ape the fashionable was at the President's ball, where I made a beautiful failure. Sue would not go until ten On arriving there, every one had been introduced. I am glad early hours are fashionable! I shall adopt it at any rate." 
               "There is a crisis in every one's life; I suppose you date events from that period!" 
               "Yes, ever since that I content myself by looking out at the wagons full of women and children; and such like old trumpery as line the streets, and are kind enough to pass my window." 
               Isadore seated herself by a window, and cast her eyes to a little wooden building; there was no paint on it; but a little piazza in front, with a bench. One gawky looking individual, barefoot-the village doctor, a graduate of several years' practice, and wealthy family-who was laboring under delirium tremens! 
               A corpulent looking man in the habilaments of a half-worn suit, who was the owner of the doggery, courteously and with deference greeted the aristocratic General who made his way through the promiscuous crowd of greasy, gawky individuals, which frequent that tippling establishment. With the patronage and influence of the General, it must certainly flourish; for he was not selfish enough to wish to monopolize all the custom, and especially about "election times." 
               Winton's pride, if not better nature, revolted at entering here, where the coarser material was kept; and he half recoiled from that 'vulgar herd" of bloated humanity-that dare claim kindred species with him. But the General's military step re-assured him, and nothing dismayed, they entered. 
               But a scene met his eye! a corpse! whose young brow had scarcely numbered twenty summers! The classical face might have been a study for an artist, as he lay there; so beautiful! so calm in death! that symmetrical form he knew-and those eyes had once sparkled with an intelligence-but the light had gone out! Thou wert loved and cherished, dear one! Bitter were the tears wrung from the depths of a heart that did not despise thee! prayers have been offered for thee! Even now, a fond mother awaits thy coming! affectionate sisters! they knew thy faults, but loved thee, even more! Who wrought this ruin on thee? thou child of intemperance! Thou wert tender and affectionate! Thou didst pity the Hindoo mother, throwing her child to the waters of the Ganges! Thou didst pity the beggar in his rags; and the cry of sorrow was strange discord to a heart so generous; and yet thou didst not refuse the wine cup! 
               And there lay all that remained of the young and talented Springer; the pride, the hope of the family. 
               The inquest over. Who now shall bear the news to his widowed mother, that her darling son had been so basely murdered! Who? 
               Will Marlby stood by with folded arms, and gazed on him that lay so silent and still in the hush of death-and how impressive is that silence lence, that in his impetuosity and passion would have hurled him into eternity; and who shall tell the feelings that rushed through his brain! 
               But who can bear the news to his mother? This dreaded task, this duty; who has the nerve for this? Ah, there were brave hearts there. Yet to tell the widow her darling child was basely murdered his soul hurled into eternity, while intoxicated! ah, well might the bravest heart shrink from such a task. But Will Marlby would go back to the city and tell her; it was a duty, and he would nerve himself and go through it. 
               But is there no tear for thy memory? We would speak, but words are too poor, too hollow. But they will bear thee to thy home and bury thee, loved one! methinks the clods fall with dismal sound! But the crowd will disperse-the man of fashion will still frequent the saloon. A tear may fall to thy memory, but it will be drowned in the wine cup. Men will still pour poison to the weak, who will drink to the destruction of intellect, despite the entreaties of wife, mother, sister, friend, all! 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
                
                   
                     
                        "I fled, and cried out, Death!"
                      
                     MILTON. 
                   
                
               DINNER was served up in a style which did credit to General and Mrs. Winthrop. The sparkling champagne went round, and from the effervescence long life, health and happiness was drank. 
               "Ah, here is Dr. Bayles," said Arthur Vincent. 
               "Yes, but such a thing as me appearing-the cars running off-a coach being overturned-a man killed, is common, and is, therefore, a trivial circumstance; however, I hope I am not like the skeleton at the Egyptian feast." 
               "By no means, Doctor; but we will drink your health!" said Arthur Vincent. Again the champagne went round, "long life and happiness." 
                
               It was the last-the very last time-they all met together at dinner. 
               It was a clear silvery night. A soft and pensive moon rose gently before them, then wheeled high in the heavens, and threw her trembling rays on a mighty oak-the wild vine had crept along its brawny arms-which stretched far across the big road. 
               The party had been walking, and Isadore, wearied, sat down on a little rude rock, at the foot of this ancient tree. 
               "Isadore," said Arthur, seating himself on a fragment of the rock at her feet, "you love nature! Look at that magnificent tree! Ah, yes, you can exist far from the hum and confusion of city; the highly poetical soul is never found following in the coarse wake of fashionable life; to the coarse mind, there is no poetry in this moss-covered rock, neither is there music in the murmur of yonder stream. And this road, Isadore, methinks I can hear the foot-fall for a century back; the heavily laden wagon of the emigrant, toiling over the burning sand. Then, from the light tread of the warrior to the little child-on, on-but with stoic firmness; they cast no look behind them. I look through a sea of mist! ah, yes, I see the dim ghosts and shades of two thousand years rise before me. But there was a time once-ay, I remember-it was a dear old scene; with the wealth of home written on its walls. It was not the grand old mansion; for there was the mildew of years lingering on its venerable walls; the pillars were crumbling; the fences were broken down; and on the green sward, where I had noiselessly played, the bronze of autumn gathered; I listened for the murmur of the brook, but its waters were gone. It was a bright morning! The heavy drapery which swept the carpet were thrown aside, and with a gush of tenderness, the sun of twenty summers came streaming in-like a glimpse of another world, was the soft mellow light. From the massive window of this proud pile of my ancestors, I beheld the girl I had loved, with that love that comes only once in life-that love which is fatal! yet beautiful and bright as sunbeams that kiss the water. Hope, scatters withered flowers in the path of the despondent, which Memory gathers up and weaves into a garland for the future. I left that home a wanderer. At one time, I stood on Virginia's pride, the Rock Bridge. You, Isadore, love old Virginia!" 
               "Ah, yes, Arthur." 
               "Ay, once-it seems but yesterday-at Palmyra, I shot a dove of exquisite workmanship, from a marble column, which fell in a crumbled mass, rotten with age; yet, how beautiful, even in ruin, are those moss-grown grown crumbling pillars, amid that mighty wreck of fallen grandeur. Asia, magnificent Asia! wherever the traveler 'wends his way,' we see traces of thy fallen greatness. But visit Britania's isle; climb; the towering Alps; her dark ravines unchimed by music's soft strain, where no voice is heard save the vulture or sea gulls tuning their shrill harps; even there, fond memory will awake and recall myriads of scenes that cluster around the fountain of youth, and shine resplendent in the gloom of the past; the necromancer and mystic pause at the threshold, as they would fain wreathe the future into rationality. But, again, I was wandering; ay, it was in the West Indies, amid the magnificent groves of orange. But again I breathe the air of my own native land; ah, methought there was freedom in the whispering breeze. Again: 'tis the factory bell in the distance! The musical murmur of Chattahoochie sweeping hurriedly over the rocks. The long-leaved pine was sleeping lazily on the nodding bough. A wide spreading tree, the grape and muscadine had climed along its haughty branches, and woven a canopy of leaves, from which long festoons sported in the summer air. There, on a rustic seat overgrown with moss, whilst the breeze swept mournfully through the long pendant branches of the dense willow that dipped in the meandering stream, I sat, wrapped in the rich communings of my own heart, while reminiscences of dear old happy days gather around me. Further below, steamboats layidly by, basking in the summer sun, with here and there a gay little skiff gliding over the still smooth water. Ah, yes, I remember; it is the march of tiny feet-a Sabbath school celebration, at the grey stone-colored church, then unfinished; again, the Academy. 
                      
                        "Since then full many a change hath come, 
                        And passed upon my spirit's dream- 
                        I've wandered far from childhood's home, 
                        And sailed far down life's onward stream. 
                        But yet no change hath ever weaned 
                        My mem'ry from this sacred spot; 
                        The pleasures of my childhood's scenes, 
                        Shall never! never! be forgot." 
                     
                  
                
               Arthur raised his hand and stroked back the hair from his temple. 
               "But, Arthur, are you not weary? let us go!" said Isadore, a strange, undefinable awe, stealing over her. 
               "Dear mother," continued Arthur, not heeding Isadore, "thine was a gentle voice, and thy soft fingers once played in my hair. But, farther on, the sunny South wind fanning the luxuriant cotton fields, Nankeen and white; but bark! 'tis the bark of a dog! Beyond, stretching far away through the dark pines, was a little plat, with its cottage. The peach lay ripe and tremblingly fell from the touch; the bee sported blithly in the full blown flower! There, I met this girl again-but ah! with a hated rival! but him, I intended, and did meet again-ay, yes, too well do I remember that wilderness of a spot! so like a dark deed! Yes, the hour! ha! ha-inky dark! A mighty peal of thunder, and a brilliant flash of lightning lit up-ay, yes! the face of the dead!" 
               Isadore could now account for that misanthropy; but her heart, the receptacle of such a secret. Oh, it was horrible! She arose, and with extraordinary agility, swept along the road; the rustling of the leaves startled her; she turned into a little by-path that wound circuitously along the edge of the craggy hills; but still she wended her way on, regardless of time or distance, until weary and exhausted, sank on the ground. The bat flapped his broad wing triumphantly past; the owl hooted in the old chimney, mingling his dolorous voice with the chirping of the cricket. Isadore's first object had been to flee from herself; but now fear paralysed every other. 
               Mrs. Marlby remembered that Isadore had mentioned to her and Arthur, her intention of visiting "Aunt Mini," and was not surprised at seeing Arthur by himself, consequently, they all returned to the house. But as she stayed rather long, Mrs. Marlby sent to the negro cabin. She had not been there, and it then grew into an affair of importance. Winton was sure she had gone to another cabin. Mrs. Winthrop suggested the stream-"She is highly romantic, and might possibly be drowned; those sinks! those horrid holes! oh, it was horrible to think of." 
               Gen. Winthrop, with cards in hand and the fumes of brandy on his lips, stood in the hall, giving orders "to the stream!" 
               His son, a youth of two-and-twenty, with swollen eyes, and ready to reel from intoxication, appeared on the threshold; he knew where she was gone-and the coarse laugh of the inebriate rang out on the air-"She was gone to Mrs. Davis'." 
               "Bring my horse quicker than rain!" 
               Winton protested against this. 
               "Do you dare to dispute my word!" said he, confronting him, and shaking his fist menacingly in his face. 
               The arm of Winton was raised; his eye flashed wildly; he was ready to fell him with a stroke. Sallie's arm was raised, and she rushed between them. 
                
               But suddenly, the report of a pistol reverberated on the midnight air! and one wail, and wide tumult, and rush for the stairs! The good hand of which the General boasted, in wild confusion lay scattered on the floor. Young Winthrop, with a firm step, for the report had sobered him, ascended the stairs. Ward left his glass unfinished, with spots of ruby wine scattered on the marble. 
               Mrs. Ward, in her night robe, rushed heedless from her chamber. The thrifty housekeeper lost her keys, and fell in her bound for the stairs. The mirth that laughed in the eye of Hetty was exchanged for a wild look of horror. The menials all rushed to the stairs. The boarders were mute with astonishment! 
               Arthur Vincent had shot himself! and the last rays of life were fast fading away. 
               Isadore was trying to collect her scattered thoughts, when through a clump of trees and tangled boughs, she saw a form emerging. She felt the awe of night; the wild scene, and the circumstances attending her flight, increased her fears. Meanwhile, the figure continued to advance up the little foot-path, then crossed the branch on a log. She was evidently weeping, and did not notice Isadore, but came on, with a slow, reluctant step, and half started in affright as she saw her. 
               "What is the matter?" said Isadore, in a soft voice. 
               "Who are you? and why here at this time of the night?" 
               "I might with equal propriety ask the same of yourself; but your tears"- 
               The moonbeams fell full on her face; it wore an expression wild and haggard; her hair was disheveled, and her dress was dark, and evidently of some coarse material. 
               "Can I be of service to you?" said Isadore, seeing her still weeping. 
               The woman raised her eyes to Isadore, and seemed mute with astonishment at the beauty of her face, and the rich mass of curls that fell around her bare neck; her dress was a plain black silk with a bertha of deep lace falling around her shoulders, and was very becoming to her style of beauty. 
               "One so young, so pretty as you! Can it be possible that sorrow has driven you from your home?" 
               "But you don't tell me whether I can assist you." 
               "My, my husband-drinks! I hate to tell you this; but he took my money that I sold my chickens and vegetables for-and I had been saving so long; and, I hate to tell you, but he bought rum with it! and now me and my little girl will have to go without a dress." 
               "Did he give it all for rum?" 
               "No; but he lost it, or gave it away, and that is just as bad for me; and I would not mind it so much, but our meeting is coming on, and I won't be decent to go." 
               "But where are you going now?" 
               "To the village, to Mrs. Winthrop. She was so kind when we were all sick; even sent us things from her own table, and did so much for us." 
               "They have these things to spare, and cannot miss them." 
               "Yes, young lady, but it done us the same good." 
               "But, why go there in the night?" 
               He-my husband-turned me out of doors, and threatened me if I came back." 
               "Do you love your husband?" 
               "Yes!" 
               "Does he love you?" 
               "Yes, when he is not drinking." 
               "Here, this money will buy you one dress, and two for your child. You are a happy woman; to what-! Go back to your husband and child; in the morning he will be sober and glad to see you." 
               "You are kind, young lady." 
               "No, I deserve no credit; I have made no sacrifice; but go home, and pray the good Lord that he will remember your husband." 
               Thus saying, Isadore hurried off, and left the woman gazing after her; for while she had been speaking, a sudden thought flashed on her brain, that Arthur was not sane-for she had heard it hinted that the family were addicted to insanity! This thought infused new life in her, and she hurried back with the same speed that brought her thither. *   *   *   *   *   *   * 
               Isadore threw herself into a chair, in this chamber of death-so silent and impressive-and realized that, "The way of the transgressor is hard!" She breathed a prayer-not for Arthur, for the soul had fled-but for herself. *   *   *   *   *   * 
               When day dawned, the lights in the parlor were still burning; the game was unfinished; the untouched glass sat on the table, and the spirited animal impatiently pawing the ground. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           The plough and the sickle shall shine bright in glory, 
                           When the sword and the sceptre shall crumble in rust; 
                           And the farmer shall live, both in song and in story, 
                           When warriors and kings are forgotten in dust. 
                        
                      
                     BURGESS. 
                   
                
               THE morning sun shone brightly, and the dew drops sparkled on verdant foliage; the forest warbler's matin songs echoed on the hills and over the vallies. 
               "Good morning, Mr. Jones." 
               "Mornin' to you, if it can be called mornin'; it's going to be mighty hot to-day, and I ought to have been at the village already; but it seems I never can have things go right with me-I am the most unfortunate man in the world; my wife did'nt have the chickens caught, nor the eggs ready, because I did'nt happen to tell her I was going to take 'em." 
               "That was your fault." 
               "My fault! Must a man think of everything? Now, then, I think they'll never be a pea picked till I see to it; and there! I have forgotten that fruit-I left it on the bench; that comes of my wife having breakfast so late." 
               "You have my heartfelt sympathies on this one grand point, that of 'making a living,' the only subject on which you seem to be sane, for on all others I pronounce you non compus mentis; but whilst you are so intent on that, I regret to hear of your many misfortunes." 
               "Look here, Doctor, do you see where the road forks?" 
               "I do." 
               "Well, my opinion of you is, that there has been better men than you hung at a many a one." 
               "I hope you have no such intentions towards me," said he, meekly. "When I was at the North, at the Medical College, I paid great attention to-" 
               "Don't say Medical College to me." 
               "You have been badly treated by those creatures; they know nothing about surgery; why, sir, Davis has his shelves lined with the herbs of half a century, dried by our good old grand mothers; name any disease, he has a prescription on the end of his tongue, and an herb ready. But who is that girl at your house?" 
               "My wife's niece; a mighty smart girl, and takes a great deal of pains to show it; she understands the 'Oriental paintin',' as she calls it, and other nonsensical superfluities. But here we part; I, like the engine, am behind time, I'll try and fire up and get aboard a little sooner next time; but this comes of your gab." 
               "Just as well me as any one else; good day." 
               "Doctor! come here, Doctor." 
               "What's the matter?" 
               "A man dead or drunk, as I am alive." 
               "He's not dead, but seems to be badly hurt by falling on this rock." 
               "I know him; here, Doctor, help me to lift him in the wagon; I'll take him back to the house." 
               The horse was turned, which served in the several capacities of going to mill, market, and church. They soon came up to a snug little cottage peeping from behind a bevy of shades and clambering vines, with the din and confusion incident to the feathered tribe. It was Indian summer. Mrs. Jones, with knife in hand was preparing fruit to dry, assisted by her niece and daughter. 
               "Wife, do come and show us where to lay this man." 
               In an instant she had left her work. "Who is it? oh, poor fellow, how I pity his poor wife. I wish there was'nt a drop of liquor in the country." 
               The poor creature had, in his fall, cut his head badly against the rock. Dr. Bayles dressed the wound, and having done all for him that the case required, and seen a messenger dispatched for his wife-the same Isadore had met the night before. "Richard was himself again." "You have such delicious fruit." 
               "Yes; but old Smith's boys-when my wife and I was gone meeting-came near spoiling the trees." 
               "Such a quantity of poultry." 
               "Not considering the trouble, I told my wife how it would be about them are Shanghai's, but she believed everybody but me." 
               Before a little glass stood Camilla evidently making her toilet, which was rather rustic. The Doctor had seen her reading a note under the big apple tree; and noticed sundry little preparation, very much like the confusion, which caused him to send word to a patient, who had kept him waiting. "When the house is cleaned up then send for me." 
               "Don't you get mighty tired of them are advertisements? Why will one be sick or die? Just imagine! once when I was in Augusta, professor somebody, with a great long name and a sugar-loaf hat, crying out his quackery at the top of his voice. Now, I think it is honorable for a man to dig a ditch, provided he ain't got genius for nothing else." 
               "Don't reflect on me." 
                
               "Oh, I know you are the worst political humbug of the age. Barnum in his most palmy days was not a circumstance to you." 
               "Are you not afraid to hurt my feelings?" 
               "Yes, if you had any." 
               A side door being opened, revealed their Sunday parlor and a visitor; none other than Dr. Darville. Camilla was beautiful, in a black skirt and white peroda. 
               "What do you think of the new railroad?" 
               "If they tax me any more I'll move. Will, what's that?" speaking to his son,-"My bill; wants money; I'd like to know who don't. He was mayor awhile; I guess it did'nt pay well; but there is nothing to raise my spirits; everything goes wrong." 
               Mrs. Jones, who was washing her hands from a bright tin pan on a little plank wash-stand, cast on him a beseeching look, which plainly said, "I do all that I can to help you; what more can you wish?" 
               Dr. Bayles and Mr. Jones now set off for the village, leaving Camilla and Darville tete-a-tete. 
               Winton had taken Sallie's money and paid Dr. Darville to a farthing; consequently they were on good terms; that is, when the haughty Winton was condescending enough to bestow a thought on one so humble as Darville. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
                
                   
                     
                        "It is not very strange: for my uncle is king of Denmark; and those, that would make mouths at him while my father lived, give twenty, forty, fifty, an hundred ducats a piece for his picture in little. 'Sblood, there is something in this more natural, if philosophy could find it out.
                      
                     HAMLET. 
                   
                
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "WELL, LINNIE,-
                            
                           Although my life has not been altogether so eventful as that of Sheridan Knowles, who, if we may believe the Journals of the day, is now enjoying the curatorship of the Shakespearian house; but of sufficient interest, I hope to entertain an old friend like yourself; but where shall I begin? Well, owing to the "Wall street panic," I fear I shall have to postpone my visit North. However, you will doubtless be glad to learn that Bell entertained us with an oration of some three hours' length, and considering, "fought, bled, and died," a hacknied theme, selected for his subject, "Whether England had the right to board our vessels on the high seas or not." And in justice to his talent, I must say, it was quite an eloquent speech. 
                            
                           Winton has retired from the law business, finding Sallie's immense cotton fields, negroes, overseers, quite as much as he can attend to. Mrs. Winton is very much beloved, and has quite a large circle of friends. And Winton, considering he has done the State some service, has sent on to the North one hundred dollars and his likeness, with a short sketch of the most prominent features in his eventful life, which will doubtless be very interesting to his numerous friends; if not, they will, at least, appreciate the motive; and he can say, as Byron did of his grand-mother-the British Review-"They got the money." 
                           Doubtless you remember poor Arthur Vincent, who shot himself in a fit of insanity-hereditary in the family-although the widow's "impression" is that it is not hereditary. Isadore spends a great portion of the time with her relations, and is now at Gonzale with Mrs. Winton. The Vincents are very wealthy, but Arthur, poor fellow, was very extravagant; they lived in a great deal of style, and he spent quite a large sum in traveling, and although he has left Isadore quite a competency, yet not a fortune; unhappy marriage, Linnie. She seems to have sunk into a dull apathy, from which it baffles all my medical skill to arouse her. You will not be surprised to hear that Will Marlby and Laura Vincent are to be married soon. The only objection I have to the match, is uniting the property; you know the Marlbys measure their land by the mile, and as a good democrat, I believe in having it more generally diffused. 
                           But, Linnie, I must not forget your interest; there is now a vacancy that might be filled by a young lawyer of talent like yourself, since Winton has retired; and that reminds me that I have a new brick office with an extra room, and I think it would look so well to see Dr. Bayles posted on one door, and Linnie D'Alvon on the other; then I could have ample time to bestow so much of my charming society on you. Believe me, Linnie, I have quite exhausted my herculean strength in this voluminous production, which you will no doubt appreciate and answer very soon. 
                           
                              Yours, 
                              M. BAYLES."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Having sealed the letter, Dr. Bayles took up his hat and walking cane, and slowly wending his way down the street, he seemed depressed in spirits-something unusual for one so humorous; the fact was, he was busily occupied with thoughts of Linnie; and how to approach one with such nice sensibilities, perplexed him not a little. "What! the gifted, the generous Linnie, sink into the drunkard's grave? oh, it was horrible! Was there no arm to save him? But what can I say? Men of talent have spoken; tears, bitter tears, have been wrung from the heart of mother, wife and maiden! What can-what must I say? No, no, it must not-cannot be, that Linnie shall fill the drunkard's grave, and without an effort to save him! No, no, it shall not be! and Isadore," with his nice perceptions he had fathomed her secret "Humph! there is the carriage now. Mrs. Winton, I am very glad to see you; I was aware something had depressed my spirits, and it was certainly your absence. But Isadore, I hope you are better." 
               "Thank you; I am better." 
               But the Doctor did not think so, although Sallie persisted in saying the country air was so beneficial to her; and hoping he would offer the same prescription again. 
               Sallie had scarcely recovered from the fatigue of her short journey, when mammy made her appearance. "Ah, mammy, I am glad to see you; have you come in to assist in the wedding preparations?" 
               "No, Miss Sallie, me got too old now; some or the young gals got to take mammy's place." 
               "Well, sit down, mammy, I want to read for you." 
               "Well, child, I am mity glad; you know mammy loves to hear you read." 
               "But it is not the Bible, mammy." 
               Sallie resumed her book, which was "Uncle Tom's Cabin," when mammy interrupted her by saying "Ah, Miss Sallie, don't read that book, it's a bad book; but here comes missus." 
               "Why, Sallie! reading a novel?" 
               "Oh, it is Uncle Tom's Cabin, and consequently difficult to determine what it is." 
               "And, Isadore, that was a stipend with your father; your mother never allowed you to read novels." 
               "Oh, dare go Miss Oriana; who dat with her, Miss Sallie?" 
               "Mrs. Morven!" 
               They turned the corner, and walked leisurely down the street, not the miserable, dingy, back street, but a fashionable one. They went up the steps, not of an old dilapidated house, but a new and handsome one; entered the door, not with a rusty bolt, but with a silver plate, on which was beautifully engraved the name of "Morven." Mrs. Harlow was ushered into a handsomely furnished parlor, while Mrs. Morven tarried in the hall a moment to give some orders to the cook and waiter, but spoke sufficiently loud for Mrs. Harlow to hear snatches of her bill of fare. "Be sure you cook the ham with wine, and don't forget to make the chicken salad; and be sure to make the Charlotte-russe after Mrs. Vincent's receipt; and now I think of it, have a nice fruit roll; and, John, don't cram the napkins in the goblets; and don't go stamping round the table like you were at a hotel; and, John, as soon as the company leave the table, be sure you put away my silver, and bring me the key." 
               Mrs. Harlow read her Bible, and no longer went to Mrs. Morven's to chat over the gossip of the day; she was impelled by a better motive. 
               "Oh, it is so dark," said Mrs. Morven; throwing aside the handsome silk curtain. Now, Morven was equally as fond of display as his wife; not that their fortune was so large, or that he loved his wife better than other men loved theirs, but he was ambitious to excel in 'display;' and Mrs. Morven was following in the wake of a very fashionable and ceremonious family, and endeavoring to train herself to sit at table as many hours; but to use her own words, sometimes found it "exceedingly dull." However, she managed to get through her mornings by reading Dickens' new work.  what not" was scattered a profusion of toys and other gew-gaws. The window where Mrs. Harlow sat looked out on a yard, not overgrown with weeds-for the plats were beautifully laid off, and bordered with shells. 
               "But come with me to my room, Mrs. Harlow; I want to show you my new dresses." 
               They soon found themselves in the spacious apartment, when Mrs. Morven began a display of silks, laces, flounces, side stripes, in a manner which would have done credit to all the clerks in town, and mentioning over the price of sundry articles, which had been bought at a fashionable store, and to credit her, had been purchased at an exorbitant price. Mrs. Harlow smiled, remembering a certain little propensity she had for calling wherever they were "selling off at cost," and hunting up all the "cheap goods." 
               "I see you have a new carriage, Mrs. Morven." 
               "Yes; but not the sort of one I wanted; I like Mrs. Winton's so much. But Will Marlby and Laura Vincent are to be married at last, and I am glad of it, for such another flying round; and nobody good enough to visit, but each other; it is to be hoped the town will be quiet after that." 
               "Mrs. Marlby is a very amiable woman-" 
               "Ah, well, I don't know; I return her calls, but I don't like her; and Isadore is apeing after widow Vincent; of course she will exclude herself for two or three years longer." 
               "But Isadore has had a great deal of trouble." 
               "Well, yes, I believe she did have trouble about Linnie D'Alvon; somehow the match was broken off; Sallie burnt up a letter, or something about it, and she, in a crazy fit, married Arthur Vincent; but I don't believe she ever cared anything about him; her and Linnie will marry yet; and that seclusion, that fashionable mourning, is her old Virginia pride; as to widow Vincent, senior, hers is the Carolina pride, I don't know which she grieved most about, her husband or Calhoun; but for myself, I think the State better off without him. The people of South Carolina can now exercise the faculty of thinking for themselves. But, oh, they are going to have a great fandango up at Bell's; Miss Springer is to be married, and the Bells are to give a party in honor of the event. But who are they? they have plenty of money, and dress fine; but they are nothing. Did you ever see such airs as they put on?" 
               "Oh, I like Irene," said Mrs. Harlow; "I think her so clever." 
               Just then a servant entered with a basket, and Mrs. Morven could not conceal a smile of satisfaction as she selected her card of invitation from amongst quite a number of fashionable names. 
               "How is your mistress?" she kindly enquired of the servant. 
               "I left a card at your house, Miss Oriana." 
               "Well," said Mrs. Morven, as soon as the servant had departed, "I shall attend the party; I could not miss seeing that grand display; and as to Irene, I care nothing about her fool notions; all girls have them." 
               Mrs. Harlow left Mrs. Morven to the luxury of her toilet, preparatory to the dinner party, and on turning a corner met with Sallie and Isadore; just then a carriage whirled past, scattering dust in every direction. 
               "For shame, Oriana," said Sallie, "do look at that vulgar rich party; I intend to write a description of them, carriage, servants and all, and send to Dickens; and there, I am sure that is the father of the Marshalsea." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXI. 
                
                  
                      
                        "If thy heart whispers that I love thee still, 
                        Yet living on a memory of the past, 
                        Or that mine eyes with tender tear-drops fill, 
                        And o'er Hope's vanished page my glance is cast, 
                        That off thy name is b'en led with my prayer, 
                        Thine image mingled with the morning's light, 
                        And sleep, that drowns all waking dreams of care, 
                        But wait, thy so tened shadow to my slight-Believe it!" 
                     
                   
                
               IT was morning in the city. Again, the sunbeams trembled on the bricks; then came the rush, the sweep of the great thoroughfare. 
               Linnie once more mounted the proud animal, and bent his steps homeward; again, he crossed the rude bridge, and then commenced the weary ride through the burning sands. The sun was high in the meridian, and the intense odor of the magnolia created a sickning sensation. 
                
               "Ah, 'tis Linnie," said a voice from within the carriage. 
               But the same haughty air as in days of yore; and he bowed, and passed on through a forest of pines, coming to a shady dell, whose dark shadow reached far across the water, he dismounted, and bathed his fevered temples in the clear sparkling water. He drank of the pure water. 
               "Slave of Intemperance! Never again! Strange infatuation! but I am convince God has given me talent; for what? to bury in the wine cup! No-no! That mighty Nile, could its waters be quenched, what a happy land! Then, indeed, there should be none to mourn over the inebriate's grave." 
               Linnie was watching the snowy wave, gliding far down into the stream. He leaned his head against a rock, in the melancholy shadow of an old pine. He was chanting an old and favorite air of his mother's, and did not notice a light symmetrical girl, until her foot touched the plank, and he heard the splash of water. He turned, and the sunbeams fell on her face, and he caught the sparkling glance of her eye. 
               "You are fond of song!" 
               Her eyes immediately sparkled again, and she replied-"Ah, yes!" 
               "Can you sing?" 
               "I have been told, with a little cultivation, I could sing on the stage; and I am very anxious to have it cultivated." 
               "You like Shakspeare's dramas!" 
               "O, very much." 
               "His Hamlet; his Othello!" 
               "O, yes." 
               "You love admiration; you sigh for fame, and your enthusiasm leads you to be ambitious! Knowest thou the many impediments? Seest thou you abrupt and craggy hill? the steep where you cattle are grazing? Seest thou you man? his hair white with many winters; now he bends his aged form far over the brook-now he drinks-now he looks with affection on the dog; and why? The shaggy creature is endeared by the sanctity of home, and plays a conspicuous part in his drama. He rises, takes his staff. Ask him, if there was not a time once, when the roar of cannon, the thunder of artillery, would arouse him? You, too, love the clash of arms, the whisper of the leaves! You have genius, and you can sing! but have you no talent for nothing else?" 
               "Nothing else, sir! There is no poetry in the rattle of the dishes." 
               "And would you like to go on the stage?" 
                
               "Very much, indeed!" 
               "And have you the moral courage and perseverance to brave all obstacles?" 
               "I have such a longing for immortality. In my lofty aspirations, I could climb the Andes! Oh! 'I could weep,' at this Chinese bondage to superior man; and woman, poor woman's meagre advantages." 
               "Yours is the poetry of youth, and your ardent aspirations are peculiar to youth; but could you, with that fervor in your soul, expose yourself a mark for the coarse jest of man? Could the tinsel of dress, or a bevy of , compensate the truly poetical soul? expose that beauty, a gift from heaven; could you be happy? No, no! Go home perform any menial labor; take care of that reputation God has given, you! it is a high and holy trust. And remember, woman's is a high and holy sphere; and when she does not overleap her sphere, is ever to be respected and appreciated by man." 
               "Ay, 'tis Linnie! the last of my lady's children. This the dog! I know his bark; and I'll take me to the house; old wreck-rotten piazza-tired; yes, tired! But I'll at last, lay me down and sleep Yes, the long sleep! and I shan't hear the step of my lady's son-a long, sweet sleep-never to wake again! But, you-oh, yes, you little stream-will go a marching on! singing your lonesome song! Yes, in the lonely moonlight, I'll sleep; away, far off-here, like I live-ay, yes, I'll sleep; and I shan't hear the storm; so like ocean and home! I shan't see the lightning coming in at the old doors-through the broken windows! But the wind-ay, yes, the wind-will go singing through the lonesome pines; on the white sandy road; and through you old vines, clinging to the trees, round the house, breaking down the fences, with your great, heavy weight! And Linnie-yes, Linnie-may chance put some little flowers on my grave! But the child! Ay, yes, Linnie will take care of the child. But there is a bright world-ay, yes Linnie-a bright world! But rest, it's so sweet to rest, after a long journey! Hark! he comes! I hear his step." 
               At Winthropville again. But the step of the General was no longer heard in the hall. And under the shade of the locust where Sue and Hetty had so often played, the stranger's children, and groups of little negroes, were gathered. Hetty's ringing laugh was no longer heard, for the stranger's fever had carried her off. And Sue-poor Sue-her young life had slowly wasted away, whilst Ward had filled a drunkard's grave! and a blight and mildew seemed to have gathered on the remaining ones; their property was scattered; the house had passed into other hands; and the General, with the wreck of his fallen fortune had moved Westward. 
               Will Marbly and Laura Vincent were married. It had been brought about in Mrs. Vincent's quiet, unostentatious manner-as she did everything-and this time, her "impression" was right, for Will was very steady; and it was a happy marriage, for each loved the other; and the families were again on a visit to the village. 
               And Isadore was there again, with a heart sorely chastened with sorrow and affections. She thought of her mothor; but she felt there was a God. 
               "And I will bring the blind by a way they know not: I will lead them in paths that they have not known: I will make darkness light before them, and crooked things straight." 
               "The fear of the Lord, that is wisdom; and to depart from evil is understanding." 
               Then thoughts of her father-him that had crossed the foaming ocean so many times, at last drowned in a little river-the accident of his being recognized, and she wept to think there was no friendly hand to point out the lonely grave on the banks of the stream, for, alas! the rude stone, which the good doctor had placed there long years ago, had fallen. And this was thy father's grave? the unknown grave of the inebriate! it had never been bedewed with a tear from wife, child, or friend; and, alas-oh! never, never-will thy tears fall on the sod. 
               It was evening in the village, and Isadore was listlessly gazing at the different persons passing to and fro. At length, one came! she knew that jetty hair; those sparkling mirrors that had shown resplendent in the gloom of the past, that had made the sunlight of her life, the star of hope that had once shone so brilliant in her otherwise dark existence; that voice that had thrilled through her frame, causing the long pent up windows of her soul to open. There had imagination clung as the ivy to the ruined wall around the grave of a lost hope, buried in the bosom of despair. She had woven the golden threads of romance into a beautiful fabric for the future. A vision of other days floated around her, a gurgling rivulet with sunbeams playing on its silvery waters. A rustic bridge, rural and unobtrusive, like the Rubicon, grew into sublimity, by association. And there was Linnie, to whom she had given her young heart; whom she had loved with all that wild, impassioned love, characteristic of children of a Southern clime; even from her juvenile days his image haunted her; had gained strength by time. 
               And Linnie, it was there he had first seen her; there he had learned to love her; and there he had wandered with her, and whispered his first vows of love in her ears. 
               He breathed but the one word, "Isadore," it was the sweet, gentle voice of other days. 
             
         
       
       
          
             
            LAW BOOKS! 
            WILLIAM KAY, Agent, Law Bookseller, Whitehall street, ATLANTA, GEORGIA, Keeps always on hand a large supply of the latest Law Publications as well as Elementary Works, and will till all orders at the lowest rates. Any Book wanted, and not on hand, can at once be ordered, being constantly in receipt of packages. Gentlemen ordering by letter may rely on having their interests scrupulously observed, and books charged at as low prices as if they were on the spot. 
          
          
            McCURDY'S ARITHMETIC, 
            Perfection Attained at Last! 
            
               Unequalled in its simplicity and correctness in the various rules of Arithmetical Calculations. 
               
                   
                     "Wonders, sure, will never ceases, 
                     Since works of Art do so increase; 
                     For be it in war, or be it in peace; 
                     Men can do whatever they please." 
                  
               
             
            5,000 COPIES OF DR. R. J. McCURDY'S celebrated system of Arithmetic executed in good style and seat to any part of the United States, free of postage, upon the receipt of ONE DOLLAR PER COPY. 
            The author has taught this system in many of the Southern and Western States, during the last thirty years. In which localities it is admitted to be superior to any that has been previously published. Several classes have been lately instructed in this city, and other parts of Western Georgia, all of which give public and cordial attestation of its simplicity, ease of acquirement and entire freedom from complex and difficult modes of calculation. 
            Tables and examples, illustrative of the various rules, are copiously and appropriately distributed throughout the work. 
            From the numerous applications we have received for the book, we are authorized in urging individuals, schools, and book dealers, to early purchases. 
            Orders will receive prompt attention when addressed to WM. KAY, Atlanta, Geo. 
            A BOOK THAT SHOULD BE IN THE HANDS OF EVERY MAN! 
          
          
            WELLS' EVERY MAN HIS OWN LAWYER, 
            AND UNITED STATES FORM BOOK, 
            
               Being a Complete Guide in all matters of Law and Business Negotiations for every State in the Union. For Merchants, Manufacturers, Mechanics, Inventors, Farmers, Artists, and all Men who wish to do their own Legal Business, and save and themselves Expense, Anxiety, and Loss of Time-containing Legal Forms of Deeds, Mortgages, Leases, Affidavits, Depositions, Bonds, Orders, Contracts, Powers of Attorney, certificates of Citizenship, Agreements, Assignments, Awards, Declarations, States of Demand, Demands Letters of Credit, Arbitration Bonds, Partnership Articles, Releases, Administrators and Executors' Deeds and Instructions, Orders, Wills, Codicils, Apprenticeship Indentures, Submissions, Land Jointures, Tenants' and Landlords' Agreements, Receipts, Pensions, Public Oaths, Satisfaction of Mortgages, Pre-emption Laws, Patent Laws, giving full instruction to inventors, with full and complete instructions for proceeding, without legal assistance, in suits and business transactions of every description. Also, containing List of Property Exempt from Execution, Lien Law, Law of Limitation, Law of Contracts, Usury Laws, Guide for Proceedings in Cases of Divorce, Custom-House Entries and Forms, Law of Partnerships, Liabilities of Common Carriers, Pedlers' Licenses to sell Goods in the various States, Constitution of the United States, a Complete System of Book-Keeping, Interest Tables, Gold and Silver Coin Tables, Seals of every State in the Union, &c., &c., &c.-Price $1 00, Postage Paid. 
            WM, KAY, General Agent, Atlanta, Ga. 
            The utility of a volume of this character is too obvious to need commendation. The design in its preparation has been to offer the professional man, the farmer, the mechanic, and the business man, a comprehensive and reliable work, which will enable him to draw up any instrument in writing that may be required in the course of business, in a legal form; to furnish him with all such legal information as is usually called for in the various avocations of life; and to make a plain common sense work, that every body can understand, and which will enable every man or woman to be his or her own lawyer. 
            This work has been prepared by an association of Lawyers of well known integrity and ability, and no labor or expense spared to make it every way fully adapted to the wants of every business man, in every State in the Union, and the Publisher has entire confidence in its superiority over any book published, as a BUSINESS MAN'S COMPANION. 
          
          
             
            BOOK STORE. 
            NEW STORE, NEW GOODS AND NEW ARRANGEMENTS. 
            BOOKS AND STATIONERY. 
            The undersigned is increasing his stock of Books and Stationery by every Steamer from the North, and is also in receipt of the New Publications of the Principal publishing houses as soon as issued from the press. He offers for sale at low prices- 
            One Hundred Reams Folio Post, Cap, Letter, Note, and Commercial Note Paper. 
            THE best qualities of Tissue and Drawing Paper, Music Paper, Bristol Board, Bill Paper, Blotting Paper, Envelopes of all sizes and qualities; also, the CHEAPEST Blank Books of all qualities, together with all the staple articles of Stationery usually found in a BOOK STORE such as Counting-house, School, Fancy and Pocket Inkstands; Portfolios; Back-gammon and Chess Boards; Chess Men; Portmonaies; Pocket Books; Single and Double Slates; Porcelain Slates; Erasing Knives; Paper Folders; Pen Racks; Steel and Quill Pens; Mucilage; all the best brands of Writing,  and Indellible Inks; Visiting and Playing Cards-all warranted good, and at as low prices as can be found. 
            IN THE CITY. 
            Also, Bill Files; India Rubber; India Rubber Rings; Quills; Sealing Wax-Red, Black, Fancy and White; India Ink: Drawing Slates; Crayon; Crayon Holders; Black Sand; Sand Boxes; Bill Head Boxes; Calendars. &c. 
            All of which will be sold at the lowest prices by 
            WM. KAY, Agent. 
            Whitehall Street, Atlanta, Georgia. 
            Please remember the location, nearest Store to the General Passenger Depot and all the Hotels. 
          
       
   
