
    ----CITATION----
        Norton, John N. (1820-1881). Rockford Parish, or, The Fortunes of Mr. Mason's Successors .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7343
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Rockford Parish, or, The fortunes of Mr. Mason's successors 
            
               ROCKFORD PARISH;  THE FORTUNES OF MR. MASON'S SUCCESSORS. JOHN N. NORTON, A M., RECTOR OF ASCENSION CHURCH, FRANKFORT, KENTUCKY ; AUTHOR OF i' THE BOY WHO WAS TRAINED UP TO BE A CLERGYMAN," "' FULL PROOF OF THE MNISTRY," 4 LIFE OF BISHOP WHTE," ETC. Redeeming the time. NEW YORK: DANA AND COMPANY, 381, BROADWAY. "ONDON: SAMPSON LOW, SON AND COMPANY. 1856.   MAY 4 1881  Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1856, BY DANA AND COMPANY, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York. B. 0. VALENTINE,  STEREOTYER AND ELECTROTYIST,  NEW YORK.   TO COLONEL E. W. MORGAN, SUPERINTENDENT OF THE KENTUCKY MLITARY INSTITUTE, NEAR FRANKFORT, KENTUCKY. OUR friendship began, as you may remember, my dear Sir, while he first efforts were made to establish the Church in a region of the West, where she had been very backward about doing her duty, and where the opposition to be encountered was almost overpowering. the kindly relations which have existed between us for years, and the interest you have shown as vestryman of a parish which, thanks to God's goodness, is no longer small, have induced me to believe that you will not be offended, that this simple record of labors, and dis- couragements, and mercies, should be dedicated to you, as a token of affectionate regard.   "The country parson, upon the afternoons in the week-days, takes occa- sion to visit in person, now one quarter of his parish, now another. He questions what order is kept in the house; as about prayers morning and evening on their knees, reading of Scripture, catechising, singing of psalms, etc.; and sometimes he hears the children read himself, and blessethi them; encouraging also the servants to learn to read, and offering to have them taught on holydays, by his servants. Neither disdaineth he to enter into the poorest cottage, though he even creep into it, and though it smell never so loathsomely. For both God is there also, and those for whom God died."                  GEORGE HERBERT.   PREFA C E. THS little work is designed to be practical in its character. The Church needs a working clergy. A world lying in wickedness affords an ample field on which to exhibit the wisdom, and prudence, and un- danted courage of true soldiers of the cross of Christ. Many gratifying letters have led the writer to be- lieve, that the hints thrown out in t Full Proof of the Ministry" have already accomplished some good. The present work is even more suggestive than the last; and he trusts that it may be equally acceptable. The author would not venture arrogantly to set himself up as an instructor of his brethren; but, as the experience of one who has accomplished a perilous journey is worth something to those who come after, so the way- marks which a western missionary can set up, may, perchance, save others from unexpected difficulties and trials. September, 1856.   "The clergy are allowed about twenty-six hours every year for the in- struction of their fellow-creatures; and I cannot help thinking, that this short time had better be employed on practical subjects, in explaining and enforcing that conduct which the spirit of Christianity requires, and which mere worldly happiness commonly coincides to recommend." SYDNEY SMT. "The Presbyterian, Methodist, and Baptist Churches, are like neigh- bors who hold a large common, to which they can send their flocks; and their respective shepherds can there interchange positions, without any inconvenience, or the disturbance of any denominational fence. But our chief denominational fences happen to front directly on this common; so that we cannot unite in their interchange of pastoral offices, without pull- ing down our enclosures, and mnking unseemly gaps, which would display  our fields to a disadvantage."  Rev, JOHN T. BRooxz, D. D. *          h    CONTENTS. PAGB CHAPTER I.-The vacant parish. Making    the best of circumstances. New rector called. Curiosity. A long blast from the trumpet. "t How long it takes him to find the places!"Painful ordeal. Rest in the easy-chair, ............. " CHAP. II.-Visits of the ladies.  The studious parson. "Why don't the vestry call?"Common-sense view of things. Neglect of visiting. A sudden excite- ment. Untimely rebuke. Three pews emptied, ............................. 1 CHAP. III.-Unsociable and proud. Out of his latitude. A help-meet. Parish school. Undermining; Orphan Asylum. How to be remembered after death. A new candidate for holy orders. From the bar to the pulpit. Somebody that visits, ..........       ..........................  ............................. 22 CHAP. IV.-Mormon preacher. Praising the Devil's agent. Twelve new church- es in thirty-five years. The grievous curse of disunion. A lamented death. The Church an impartial mother. Congregation thinning out. The cause. An- other change, ......  . . ......................................................  27 CHAP. V.-The Rev. Mr. Dusenbury. Life and activity. No bigot. "Brother Dusenbury." The Shibboleth of party. American Bible Society. -How time has dealt with some of our old friends. A lay-reader's good works, .......... 82 CHAP. VI.-Spiritual rappings. All in commotion. The dancing shovel and tongs. Mr. Dusenbury amazed. The sermon. How the people listened with both ears. The story which grew 8o fast, stopped short in its course,.......... 87 CHAP. VII.-A June meeting. The origin of this custom. Mr. Dusenbury mortified. His example turned against him. Church teaching. Dr. Bedell. Bowing in the Creed. Charlotte Elizabeth. Absurd practice. What Mr. Dusenbury's flock thought of him, .......................................... 42 CHAP. VIII.--Abounding in good works. The cottages for aged widows. Flat- top coffins. Preparing for confirmation. The Bishop too good to impose on any body. Useful books, and more needed. Concerts in churches. New mode of dedication, ......... ..................................................  47 CHAP. IX.-The Bishop's arrival. The candidate's examination. A curious question raised and discussed. The ordination sermon. How the old Meth- odist nodded approval to his Baptist brother. Drinking water in the pulpit,.. 58 CHAP. X.-Preaching Christ. The Christian Zodiac. Servants of the Lord's fam-   8              CONTENTS. PAGB ily. Thankless service. Legh Richmond. Moistened eyes. The Confirmation. God's blessing. Setting up little human props, .............................. 59 CHAP. XI.--The  eal of a new soldier. One missionary for three stations. Breaking ground in Bedfordville. Three to say the Creed. The first seed plant- ed. What is to be done in future. The Reverend Captain Phillips. The Church buffeted on both cheeks, ............................................... ..... 65 CHAP. XII.-Mr. Dusenbury's Sunday abroad. Steamboat scene.   The pert preacheress. A quiet answer. Cheering prospect. "'Nine and twenty knives." Who shall have the spoils? A neglected cold, and its consequences, .......... 71 CHAP. XIII.-The invalid seeks sunny skies. A deacon with an overload of cares. Opposition at Bedfordville. Dr. Samson Slashgill, Serving two mas- ters. Six preachers and one more. The missionary almost forgotten,........ 76 CHAP. XIV.-True mission of the Church. Apostolic pattern. The clergy- . man's wife. The tempest which Dr. Slashgill excited. Mr. Stewart gives up. The heroic epistle. Mr. Dusenbury goes to Rome. Locum tenens,........... 82 CHAP. XV.-Preaching on trial. How affairs prosper in Bedfordville. New rec- tor called. Another missionary journey. The past forgotten. Awkwardness of a clergyman in going to a new parish. Want of activity in vestrymen. Parties in the Church necessary safety-valves. Bishop Hopkins's sermon,............ 87 CHAP. XVI.--Julia Howard. 'Clergymen's children not always bad. The inva- lid mother. The school of adversity. Dr. Gadsby's illness. Prayers of the Church. The good physician. Recruits for the ministry. Prospect brighten- ing  at Bedfordville, ... ....... ...........................................  93 CHAP. XVII.--Letters and journals. Irish Protestants. Necessity of some pre- vious knowledge, in making responses in the baptismal service. Embarrassing situation. "The aforesaid gentlemen." A skirmish with the enemy. The Pentecostal miracle reversed, .....   ...  ...................................... 98 CHAP. XVIIL-Robert Smith ordained. Curiosity to hear him preach. "You gave us a beautiful sermon." Salutary caution. The old woman in the duffel cloak. Bishop Johns's wise counsels. Cold lamb and gooseberry pie. Hats on in church. Dr. Johnson. Reverence for the sanctuary ........... ........... 103 CHAP. XIX.-Miss Busby. How she Watched over the conduct of others. "Don't ride in Mr. Patterson's buggy." A taboo on dangerous books. "Why didn't Mr. Howard go to the grave?"Selling out to the Pope. Bedfordville. The old letter again,............. ................ ........................ 108 CHAP. XX.-The blue-covered book. Sermon in a sick-room. A light through the dark valley. "I feel just as David did." Chance. Strange incident. The finger of God. A carpenter by day, and a divinity student by night .......... 113 CHAP. XXI.-The thunderings of the Boanerges. Mr. Barnes's Notes. Christ- mas. Side blows at the Church. Better books for our people. Contrast be- tween the past and the present. Mr. Howard's sermon. A host of witnesses. The 25th of December our Saviour's birth-day, .......... .............. 118   CONTENTS.                   9 PAGB CHAP. XXII.-The offender with a green patch. Reproof badly administered. Advice taken literally. Calling hard names.' Primitive Christians and Reform- ers. Lack of earnestness in the pulpit. Thackeray. Mirabeau's penetration. Preachers must themselves feel, if they wish to make others feel, ............. 123 CHAP. XXIII.-The little class. How an invalid may be useful. The Lady of the Manor. Preparing children for confirmation. Teaching of the Prayer- Book. Bishop Heber. The maiden's blush. A visitor expected. Advice of importance, .............  .. ......... ......... . .. ........  ............ 128 CHAP. XXIV.-The hippodrome. How the high and the lowly were excited. The inconsistencies of Christians. Opening of the new church in Bedfordville. Which is the Bishop? Almost a disappointment. An opportunity for alaugh, 18.3 CHAP. XXV.-Credulity of the clergy, The Oxford gown and cap at an Ameri- can convention. Wandering impostors. Mr. Howard's experience. The un- principled Mr. May. Books which the rector did not buy. Why all do not think alike about the Church. William Jay's confession ..................... 188 CHAP. XXVI.--"Uncle Willis." The brass buttons. An unsettled question. A correspondence on an important subject. The Rockford Advertiser. How the polite editor got into difficulty. Dr. Slashgill's fierce onslaught, and precipitate retreat, ..............................................       ................  144 CHAP. XXVII.-Only room in the pulpit for one. Reserving ammunition till it is needed. Preparation of sermons. False notions. Turning the barrel. Jay's example. Unfrequent exchanges. "Choose another subject." Illustra- tions and adornments. Dr. Bedell, ........  ................................ 151 CHAP. XXVIII.-Getting up from a sick-bed to work. Midnight summons. Darkness which might be felt. Nelson Aiken. Baptist phrases. "What shall I do?"  Safe in the ark. Attention to strangers. Poor clergymen at taverns, 155 CHAP. XXIX.-Brazen heavens and a parched earth. Artificial rain. Evidences of unbelief. A text which seems to contain a promise. What prayer can ac- complish. Professor Espy. King Ahab. The long drought; The crying child  carried  out, .................................. . ............ ...... 160 CHAP. XXX.-The rector begins again.     St. James answers an objection. The thundering legion. Bishop Payne. The converted heathen's prayer. Tes- timony which every one might give. The proper ones to pray for rain. God's power never limited. Application of the sermon. Its effect. The psalm which was sung at the parsonage the next morning .......................... 165 CHAP. XXXI.--"Compliments to the ladies." A stray newspaper. Edgar Fielding finds friends. "Why does the man lay down to read?"  Difficulties of the poor. Going out into the highways and hedges. Palliating circumstances. Power of love, in winning souls to Christ, ......... ...................... 170 CHAP. XXXII.-The murderer condemned.      Crowding around the gallows. Reverend Captain Phillips as chaplain. The Church caring for the prisoner. John C. Colt. Confirmation in Illinois. Dr. Gadsby leaves the choir. A dif. ficulty met. Praise out of the mouths of children, ... ....................... 175 1*   10             CONTENTS. PAGB CHAP. XXXlI.-Dr. Jacobus Edwards. Flowers of rhetoric. Intoning the service. Pretty preaching. Robert Hall. Always on the pad. Records in the parish register. How Mr. Latitude made entries. Probabilities not enough for the Court. More specimens of accuracy, .................................. 10 CHAP. XXXtV.-Magic Lantern. The little ones made happy. Young com- municants. Dr. Arnold of Rughy School. Test of our love to Christ. A traveller at the monastery on Mount Sinai. Refusal, and a wise. repentance. Others brought to a better mind   , ......................................... 185 CHAP. XXXV.-The young deacon's attachment for his friends. Suspicious cir- cumstances. How the disjointed parts of the Christian world are getting to- gether. Dr. Tyng. The worship of Heaven a worship of forms. Value of the Prayer-Book. Unitarian testimony, ..................................... . 190 CHAP. XXXVI.-Another visitor. Brother Crawley. A Christmas which was not kept. Church door locked. Cattle and hogs. "That is parson Crawley." Preacher and farmer both. Influence of ten years. "l I believe he is a Presby- terian." The longest day in the year, ..................................... 195 CHAP. XXXVIl.-The row of brick houses. Weeping and mourning. Friends in need. Sisters of charity. Dorcas. How much women do. The funeral. "Who will put on his shoes and stockings now?"The world where hunger and thirst are unknown,.         ................................................. 200 CHAP. XXxVI1.-Vague reports of what Dr. Slashgill meant to do. A black coat exchanged for a gray one. Mr. Calvin Ferret. All right and proper. Neglect of the afternoon service. Warnings from the pulpit. Carlyle's Account of John Sterling's congregation. A change for the better, .................... 205 CHAP. XXXIX.-More leavesfrom thejournal. Languid responses. Obligation to the organ pipes. Bishop Ravenscroft. Clerical convocation. Censorious- ness Deaf and dumb boy at church. Happy Christmas. An acceptable gift. Parish  library,............................................................. 209 OHAP. XL.-The most important persons not at home. ]A long hour's chat. Walking a mile out of the way. The voice of melody. A daughter of Erin. Spoiling the Egyptians. Leaving unfinished business behind. The important letter.  Parting words, .. .......................................................... 218   ROCKFO RD PARISH. CHAPTER I. THE VACANT PARISH. MAKT ING THE BEST OF CIROUMSTAN- CES. NEW REOTOR CALTEilrD. CURIOSITY. A LONG TLAST FROM THE TRUMPET. "HOW LONG IT TAKES HM TO FIND THE PLACES!"PAINFUL ORDEAL. REST IN THE EASY- CIAIR. IF the writer possessed the rare abilities of the author of the Leather-stocking Tales, in recalling his hero to the stage, even after slumbering for years in the quiet grave, he might be disposed, perhaps, to carry back Mr. Mason to his parochial duties in Rockford, and set him actively to work.  It is certainly not a little grati- fying, that persons on both sides of the Atlantic have expressed deep regret at his early departure from the earth, and have manifested a desire to know more of the fortunes of the infant parish which he left. As we have not been gifted with Mr. Fenimore Cooper's powers, in the particular just referred to, we can only show our due appreciation of the kindness thus exhib- ited, by telling what we know of Mr. Mason's succes- sors.    12       OCOKFORD PARISH. The inhabitants of Rockford seemed to be stunned and stupefied by his sudden death. Many days passed, before they could realize, that this faithful servant of God would no longer be seen going in and out among them, on his errands of love and peace. It was during the sultry month of August, that Mr. Mason died; and the Cholera, for some time after, continued to prevail. Yet the Cturch in Rockford was kept open, without interruption. The leader of the Lord's host had indeed been laid low by the swift arrow of the Destroyer; but, like good soldiers of the cross, the lay-members of the Church did not forget their duty; and on every Sun- day they assembled as usual in the House of God, one of the vestry reading the service and a sermon. * Although the parish was no longer a missionary sta- tion, and could offer a salary of seven hundred dollars a year, the call for clergymen was so urgent, from all quarters, that it was found extremely difficult to supply Mr. Mason's place. Many ministers were invited to the parish, but to no purpose. At last, Mr. Perkins, the Junior Warden, suggested the name of a friend of his at the north, who had the reputation of being an excellent preacher; and so, upon his recommendation, the vestry made out a call in due form, which was forthwith sent. In about a month's time a letter of ac- ceptance came back, and the congregation flattered themselves, that they would soon be again under the watchful care of a good shepherd. No one ventured to express the slightest doubt, that the new rector would   ROCKFORD   PARISH.       13 prove all that they hoped for, except our old friend, Mr. Chambers, who, after reading the important letter ad- dressed to the vestry, quietly pointed to the signature, "J. PRIMROSE PErTERJOHN," and said, "I never fancied- that fanciful way of writing one's name." By the middle of September, Mr. Peterjohn was fair- ly settled in the parsonage at Rockford, with his wife and five children. There is always a great curiosity in the community, to see a new minister who removes to town; and taking it for granted, that some of my read- ers may share in this anxiety, I shall introduce the strangers, in due form. Mr. Peterjohn had seen about forty winters; and his hair was well sprinkled with gray. His high and ex- pansive forehead and his intelligent countenance show you, at once, that he- is a man of education and refine- ment. The straight-collared, single-breasted coat, and neatly tied white cravat, leave no doubt as to the pro- fession to which he belongs. I have used the word "profession," because it is one so constantly employed; but I must frankly say, that I do not like to hear the office of God's ambassador spoken of as ari ordinary calling, such as medicine or law. Some persons remarked, at the first glance, that Mr. Peterjohn wore a large seal ring upon the little finger of his left hand; but, unless so much attention had thus been drawn to it, the circumstance would have escaped my notice. The clergyman's wife is a modest, unassuming woman; and, judging from the appearance and behav-   ":     BOCKFORD PARISH. ior of the children, she must be a good and devoted mother. But hark! the bell is ringing for church. Mr. Pe- terjohn is to preach his introductory sermon. Episco- palians are turning out in full force; and many stran- gers, from other folds, are going to hear the first blast of the new trumpet. The bell stopped; the organist began the voluntary; and all eyes were turned towards the vestry-door, but no clergyman appeared. Mr. Ma- son had always been so particular to begin service the very moment the town-clock proclaimed the appointed hour, that when the congregation had waited, for at least ten minutes, they began to grow uneasy, apprehending that sudden illness or some other unforeseen calamity had come upon the new rector. One whispered his fears to another; and so the impression spread from pew to pew, until the whole assembly became very uneasy and anx- ious. But, just as Mr. Perkins was about to go into the vestry-room, to learn the cause of the unusual de- lay, the door slowly opened, and Mr. Peterjohn entered the chancel. Having finished his private devotions, he began, with great deliberation, to find the places in the Bible and Prayer-Book. It was his predecessor's practice, to go to church half an hour before service, and arrange all these things, so that there night be no delay when he appeared at the sacred desk. The effect of our beautiful services is sadly marred by the turning over of leaves, and the flourishing of book-marks, while the people are an-   ROCKFORD  PARISH.       15 noyed and wearied by such an unnecessary waste of time. Mr. Peterjohn conducted the service in a solemn and impressive manner,--too impressive, I fear, as he add- ed about a third to its length, by emphatic pauses, and slow and measured deliberation.  The sermon was good and appropriate, but, as a young man remarked, as he passed out of the gate, after the benediction, "It was as long as three of Mr. Mason's, and yet it contained no more ideas than one of his." Upon the whole, the peo- ple were well pleased, and the first impressions of Mr. Peterjohn were decidedly favorable. All due allow- ance was made for his delay in beginning the service; and those who had felt weary with the hour's sermon, consoled themselves with saying, that an introductory discourse in a new parish, in which a clergyman sets forth his views, and lays down plans for future opera- tions, might be expected to be longer than on ordinary Sundays. The service in the afternoon was attended by representatives from the various denominations of the town, who could find little fault with what they heard, and accordingly went home again quite well satisfied. It is certainly a most severe trial for any man, to undergo the ordeal through which Mr. Peterjohn had that day been obliged to pass; and he must have felt both relieved and thankful, when night came, and he could seat himself comfortably in his arm-chair, and enjoy the peaceful pleasures of his home. He could   S16    :  ROCKFORD PARISH. form no conception, however, how much more trying Mr. Mason's lot had been, when, ten years before, he came to Rockford to lay the foundations of the Church there, amidst the bitterest opposition and the most painful discouragements.   ROCKFORD PARISH.        17 CHAPTER II. VISITS OF THE LADIES. THE STUDIOUS PARSON. "WHY DON'T THE VESTRY CALL?"COMMON-SENSE VIEW OF THNGS. NEGLECT OF VISITING. A  SUDDEN EXCITE- MENT. UNTIMELY REBUKE. THREE PEWS EMPTIED. MONDAY came; and on that day, and for several days after, the ladies of the Rockford parish began to call upon the wife of the new rector, most of them saving, as they rose to depart, "You must come and spend the day," or, "Do come and take tea sociably." Meanwhile, Mr. Peterjohn kept himself very quiet. He walked from his house to the post-office, twice a day, and took a stroll with his elder children, for an hour or so in the afternoon; but, during the remainder of the time, he confined himself pretty closely to his study, busily engaged in reading and writing. He was natu. rally fond of books, and kept up his knowledge of Greek and Hebrew, by devoting a part of each morn- ing to the subject. Mr. Peterjohn had grown up with the ideas of eti- quette and propriety so strictly observed in the older States; and he wondered, that more gentlemen of the parish did not call upon him. Mr. Augustus Peyton had promptly made his appearance at the parsonage, on the rector's first arrival; and Mr. Perkins, the 2":e   18      ROCKFORD PARISH. Junior Warden, having been the chief instrument in his being called to the parish, had been kind and atten- tive; but, not even a majority of the vestry had come, in a formal way, to pay their respects to the clergyman. I do not say that this was right, and I can readily imagine, that a man of delicate sensibilities might regard it as a personal slight. At the same time, we should look at such things in a common-sense point of view. Most of those who belonged to the Church in Rockford, were people in moderate circumstances; some being merchants, and others, mechanics and day-labor- ers. They had their bread to earn, and had no time, during the week, to put on their Sunday clothes and make visits to any body. The very men whom Mr. Peterjohn thought had treated him with great want of respect, really felt most kindly towards him, and never dreamed that they had been guilty of any impropriety. They would have hailed him with a cheerful welcome, and a hearty grasp of the hand, if he had " looked in upon them" in their stores and workshops; and their wives and children would have been delighted to see him at their homes. But, unfortunately, the rector did not view matters in this light; and while he ecrupu- lously discharged his duties in the church, he neglected the no less important one, of going about from house to house. In the course of two or three weeks, people began to ask, in no little amazement, "Why don't the minister visit more?"It is true, he had gone, very promptly,   ROCKFORD PARISH.         19 to see some sick persons who had sent for him; but he seemed to have a delicacy about obtruding himself, where his presence might be unwelcome. A clergy- man need not be at all afraid of this. His people will always be glad to see him, when he goes about among them on his Master's business; and although it is some- what awkward for one to enter a house, where, perhaps, he does not know the name of the occupant, and to in- troduce himself, still, he should be willing to bear this light cross, for the sake of the holy cause in which he is engaged. When once the ice is broken, conversation will flow on readily enough; and many a visit which is thus begun with painful embarrassment, will end with pleasure and profit. Nothing worthy of record occurred at Rockford, until the Sunday after Christmas, when not a little excitement was stirred up, by a very trifling cause. On that day, Mr. Peterjohn was in the midst of one of his long sermons, (for it proved to be his uniform practice, to give very liberal measure in the way of public instruction,) when he suddenly stopped short, and, after a pause which attracted the attention of- the whole con- gregation, he said, with some sharpness of manner,-- "If the young men who come here, cannot stay until the close of the service, I would thank them to remain at home." He then went on with the discourse, which happened, most inopportunely, to be devoted to that beautiful and touching feature in our Saviour's charac- ter, His gentleness and meekness. I fear, that many   20       OOCKFORD PARISH. present thought, if they did not say, "Ought not the servant of such a Master to be more patient and for- bearing?" No one who has not actually been placed in a posi- tion like that which Mr. Peterjohn occupied, can make all due allowance for him. In the towns and villages which have sprung up so rapidly in the western States, it is a constant source of annoyance to clergymen, to see persons come into Church, and, after looking about them for a while, rise up deliberately, and walk out again. One must govern his tongue with bit and bridle, who can refrain from speaking out to them, and reprov- ing such irreverence in the House of God. But, the minister who attempts to correct the evil in this way, will find, to his sorrow, that he has taken a false step. The only prudent course, is to watch for a fitting occa- sion, and kindly tell these thoughtless persons, in pri- vate, how improper such conduct is; and gradually, by precept and example, to inspire them with reverence for holy places and holy things. Mr. Peterjohn's reproof of the young man who went out of church during the sermon, became, by Monday morning, the town talk. The ill-bred stripling, whose squeaking boots had so disturbed the preacher's equa- nimity, had influential connections, who, of course, took sides with him; and they all declared, with one con- sent, that they would never enter the church again. "Well and good," some high-spirited person will say, s "Well and good, the Church can do without theim."   ROCKFORD PARISH.         21 So it can, my friend; neither would the walls of Zion totter, though you and I should both be driven from the fold, by a cause as trifling as that which has just been described. But, at the same time, we should remem- ber, that the professed object of Christ's ministers is to win souls to fHim, and not to excite angry feelings, when it can possibly be avoided. Mr. Peterjohn visited so little among his parishioners, that several weeks passed, before he had the least suspicion that two or three pews in church had been emptied, by his one unfortunate speech.   ROCKFORD PARISH. CHAPTER III. NSOCIABLE AND PROUD. OUT OF HS LATITUDE. A HELP- MATE. PARISH SCHOOL. UNDERMNING. ORPHAN ASY- "UM. HOW TO BE REMEMBERED AFTER DEATH. A NEW CANDIDATE FOR HOLY ORDERS. FROM THE BAR TO THE PULPIT. SOMEBODY THAT VISITS. MR. PETERJOHN confined himself so closely to his ,wn premises, and mixed so little with the people, as to e :ause the prevailing impression that he was very unso- - liable; and some did not hesitate to accuse him of )eing proud. No charge could, however, be more    ; mfounded than this. The truth is, he was not at all   suited to the work of building up the Church in a new place. Very likely, in an old and well-established  -  parish, he would have succeeded much better. Fortu- Lately for him, his amiable wife made friends wherever -j she went; and many who might have been disposed to  :  find fault with the inefficient pastor, refrained from say- : ing any thing that might wound her feelings, should  j she chance to hear it.                 The parish school which Mr. Mason had organized,  A and kept up with so much success, continued to flourish j in spite of obstacles of various kinds. It is true, the " manifest usefulness of the little institution, saved it from I being crushed, outright, by any spirit of opposition; i },    ROCKFORD PARISH.          23 but, at the same time, there were various instrumentali- ties at work to cripple its prosperity. The various denom- inations did not fancy it much, that the Episcopal Church should thus take upon herself the office of teaching all the children of the poor; and they made use of many arts to cause them  to be sent to other places of instruction. Some went so far, as to offer to pay the tuition of those who would consent to go to opposition schools, and even bribed the children with the promise of gifts. Notwithstanding these and other difficulties, the parish school continued, quietly and unobtrusively, tok train up young and thrifty plants, to adorn the vineyard of the Lord on earth, and hereafter, we trust, to flour- ish in the Heavenly Paradise. From past experience, I feel well assured, that this part of the narrative will be severely criticised in cer- tain quarters; and doubts will be expressed, whether the writer has not allowed his prejudices tofancy a bit- terness of opposition which did not really exist. In all sincerity, therefore, he feels bound to say, that the half has not been told. I have been obliged, thus far, to dwell upon so many unpleasant topics, that I gladly invite the reader to accompany me, for a few moments, to a place in Rock- ford, with which those who honored " Full proof of the Ministry" with a perusal, are already familiar. I refer to the house and grounds which good Mrs. Peyton once occupied, but which, according to the directions   24      ROCKFORD PARISH. given in her will, had been turned into an orphan asy- lum. At the time of Mr. Mason's death, it was still under the care of the widow Oliver, who managed its affairs very admirably. When Mr. Peterjohn succeeded to the rectorship, he found about thirty little ones here snugly nestled beneath the Church's sheltering wing; and it was a pleasant sight to those passing along that quiet street, to watch them as they were playing about, most happily, in the yard and garden, or aiding in the lighter tasks assigned them. It was worth while to attend service at the Rockford parish church, to see these orphans marching in, two and two," dressed in their clean check aprons, attended by the matron and their teacher. The GOOD SHEPHERD'S command, "Feed mny lambs," was here most strictly obeyed. Mr. Peterjohn was very faithful in catechis- ing, and in teaching them those things which every Christian ought to know, to his soul's health. How many Mrs. Peytons there are in the world, who could found orphan houses, if they would! It does not require a large amount of money to begin such an establishment, on a moderate scale; and then, by proper management, the accommodations can be enlarged, and the number of inmates increased, as the state of the funds will justify. If people only realized how much substantial pleasure there is in doing good, we cannot doubt that hundreds and thousands, who are now living to themselves, would open their hearts, and make others happy.   ROCKFORD PARISH.         25 As a general rule, persons are no sooner dead and buried, than they are- forgotten by the world. But let them be conscientious in the use of their property, and let a fair share of it be devoted to benevolent'objects, and their memories will be green and fragrant for ages to come. One of the most active members of the vestry, at the time of which we are writing, was Mr. Patterson, the young lawyer, who married Kate Forrester. Mr. Ma. son had hoped and prayed, that his mind might be turned, by God's grace, to the ministry of thelChurch; and while there seemed no disposition on/is part to abandon'the bar for the pulpit, he'had his/own serious reflections on the subject. Although his beloved friend and pastor was now rest- ing from his labors, his persuasive voice seemed often to be speaking to the living; and after having thought of the matter several months, Mr. Patterson consult- ed with ]Mr. Peterjohn, and the members of his own family, who warmly approved of his determination. The canonical papers recommending him as a Candi- date for Holy Orders, were soon made out; and in due season, were passed by the Standing Committee of the diocese. Those who will call to mind the scene in the first part of this history, where George David Patterson, the lit- tle fatherless southern boy, became the room-mate of Edward Mason, in a northern college, and who will fol- low the career of these two persons afterwards, cannot 2   6      ROCKFORD PARISH. lil to discover, how wonderfully a kind and gracious Providence shapes the lives and fortunes of His depend- i nt children. That was a wise resolution which the oung lawyer made, to exchange Blackstone for the   ; 3ible, and a profession which often lends its aid in :eeping alive the strife and contentions of men, for the oinistry of HM who was, emphatically, "The Prince  Mf Peace." The world could well spare many more awyers, whose lives might be most profitably spent n the work of faith and the labor of love which the  j iervant of Christ is commissioned to perform. So many strange things had happened in Rockford, since the day when the Episcopal Church was first es- X tablished there, that people were not taken so much by X surprise, this time, as might be supposed. Mr. Patter- son very quietly removed his sign, as "Attorney at Law," from his office door, and having borrowed some a books from his rector, and bought others for himself, set j zealously to work. He took a more active part than  j ever in the Sunday School, and made up, in some degree, for the remissness of Mr. Peterjohn, by his friendly visits to the poor. I   ROCKFOR  D PARISaH.      27 CHAPTER IV. MORMON  PREACHER. PRAISING THE   DEVILXS AGENT. TWELVE NEW CHURCHES IN THRTY-FIVE YEARS. THE GRIEVOUS CURSE OF DISUNION. A LAMENTED DEATH. THE CHURCH AN IMPARTIAL MOTHER. THE CONGREGA- TION THNNING OUT. THE CAUSE. ANOTHER CHANGE. "Are you going to hear the Mormon preacher?" was the question which many asked in Rockford, as they read the notice in the morning paper, that one of this new-born sect would hold forth in the Court- House, "at early candle-lighting." Curiosity oftentimes leads people to do very strange and inconsistent things; and my readers will not be as- tonished to learn, that a great crowd turned out on this occasion. And it was almost amusing, (if one can con- sent to be amused with what is really so shocking,) to hear those who had been present compare notes. "He was a right smart man," said one. "Yes," rejoined another; '"I never heard a better sermon in my life." And so they went on, finding all they could to praise in the performance of the Mormon preacher. These, too, were professing Christians, who having ranged themselves under various banners, without much reflec- tion, were ready to turn this way or that, as the wind might chance to blow. I have no doubt that, if the   8      ROCKFORD PARISH. disciple of the knavish, unscrupulous Joseph Smith, had tarried in Rockford awhile, he could have made converts, and gathered a congregation, as well as oth- ers. Such must always be the case, while religion is regarded. merely as a thing of emotion and fancy, and not a settled and well-grounded principle. No matter how absurd and wicked a zealot's notions may be, he has only to persevere, and he may be cer- tain of final success. The result of all this is, that the world is overrun with what are called, in popular lan- guage, " Ch/urces."  " In my short ministerial life of thirty-five years," says Bishop De Lancey, " I can enu- merate at least twelve new so-called Christian Church- es, independent of each other, each claiming to be the Church of Christ. Hence the claim set up by some, that every new convert to Christ must settle for him- self, independently of authority or evidence, according to his feelings, whether man, woman, girl, or boy, what and where the Church is, which of the several organi- zations round him constitutes the true Church ; and that if the claims of none can be sustained to his indi- vidual satisfaction, he becomes 'the Church' himself."* O that the Christian world could be one again, as Christ would have them to be! The people of Rock- ford were actually taxed and burdened, almost beyond endurance, to sustain the rival establishments, which all claimed, alike, to be " Churches" of Christ, and the ap- o Charge on " The Avenues of Infidelity," p. 26.   ROCKFORD   PARISH.      29 pointed way to Heaven. Even our old acquaintances of Mr. Bilger's flock, the seventh-day Baptists, contin- ued to ring the court-house bell, and to burn coal; and all for the sake of little trifling differences, which it is unbecoming in Christians to dwell upon. Two good- sized churches would have afforded ample accommo- dations for the whole population of the -town, and the rest of the money which was wasted in keeping up op- position societies, in a cause which should have no op- position, might have been devoted to the purposes of education, and to the relief of the poor. Mr. Peterjohn had now been in Rockford for several months, and none of'the settled preachers there had deigned to notice him. They had not forgotten Mr. Ma- son's polite refusal to unite with them in some of their forced and unnatural unions, which can never be pro- ductive of lasting peace; and they showed how much they had been offended by his straight-forward honesty. Easter had been celebrated ,as usual, and the glad tidings of the resurrection been repeated again, for the consolation of God's people, when a death occurred in Rockford parish, which occasioned much regret. It was that of old Mfr. Thompson, the Englishman, who owned the foundry; one of the few Episcopalians to welcome Mr. Mason's coming. The decease of the wealthiest person in the ChUrch, would not have called forth more expressions of sorrow; and it was a pleas- ant evidence of the unity of the body of Christ, when this poor man, dying at such a distance from his native   )      KROCKFORD PARISH. land, was buried with the same funeral rites that would have been performed, if he had breathed his last in the home of his childhood. The Divine Head of the Church is " no respecter of persons."     All who enter within this "one fold," and seek nourishment for their souls at the table of the Lord, fare alike. " Our Mother, the Church, hath never a child To honor before the rest; But she singeth the same for mighty kings, And the veriest babe on the breast; And the Bishop goes down to his narrow bed, As the ploughman's child is laid; And alike she blesseth the dark-browed serf, And the chief in his robe arrayed."* An ideal Church, it is true, may be very attractive and beautiful, while the affairs of the Church, as ad- ministered by those who are wanting in energy and spirit, may be the reverse. The more devoted members of Rockford parish, who watched over the interests of the Church with even a more jealous eye than they did their own, observed with sorrow, that there was a grad- ual falling off in the size of the congregation, and that many of the poorer families altogether ceased to attend the services of the Church. Mr. Mason had been very attentive to this class of persons, because he knew that they required much more looking after than any other; but his successor seemed * Coxe's Christian Ballads, "Church-yards."  ROCKFORD PARISH.         31 to take a different view of the matter, and left them pretty much to themselves. While Mr. Peterjohn was laboring very diligently in his study, at Greek or Hebrew, and in, preparing and polishing able articles for the Reviews, these neglected members of his flock were comparing the indifference and coldness of their present pastor with the warmth and unremitting atten- tion of Mr. Mason. As their interest in the clergyman became less, their attachment for the Church was di- minished, and, one by one, they began to neglect public worship, and other religious duties. Neither rich nor poor were very much grieved, when, towards the close of his first year at Rockford, Mr. Peterjohn received and accepted a call to another parish. At the close of each reign, Mr. Hume, in his History of England, gives, in a few words, his ideas (we are sorry to say, not always just) of the character of the monarch who has then left the throne. We shall follow his example in the case of Mr. Peterjohn. He was a learned and accomplished man, and a sound Church- man, but he was no pastor. Hence the total inefficiency of his labors, and his blighting-influence upon a parish, where a minister, with much less human learning in his head, and more of his Heavenly Master's spirit in his heart, would have been cheered with an abundant harvest.   CHAPTER V. THE REV. MR. DUSENBURY. LIFE AND ACTIVITY. NO BIGOT. CBROTHEBI DUSENBURY.9 THE SHTRROLETH OF PARTY. AMERICAN BIBLE SO0ETrY.  HOW TIME HAS DEALT WITH OUR OLD FRIENDS. A LAY - READER S GOOD WORKS. MR. PETEROHN'S successor was the Rev. Henry Du- senbury, who had preached once or twice at Rockford, as he happened to be passing through the place. He had some pretensions to oratorical powers, and many of the people had been quite charmed with him. As the new clergyman was a widower, with no fam- ily, the parsonage was closed for a time, and the rector took board at the hotel where Mr. Mason had so long lived before himr. He showed that he was sincerely devoted to his work, by setting about it, forthwith, in good earnest. Having obtained a list of the families belonging to the parish, he went from house to house; and many of the poor who had got out of the habit of attending divine service, were so gratified with his at- tentions, that they began to make their appearance again in the sanctuary. The impression went abroad, before very long, that Mr. Disenbury was a man who held liberal Church-views, and that he was no bigot. I   have given the words which people of various denomi- nations used when speaking of him, to show more plainly, by contrast, what they thought of the Episcopal clergymen who had been there before. Mr. Mason and Mr. Peterjohn they considered as illiberal in their Church-views, and most inexcusably uncharitable. The kindly feelings thus cherished for the new-comer, were manifested by the attentions which he received. The various preachers called upon him, and always saluted him, with great familiarity, as "Brother Du- senbury." They even came to church, now and then, to hear him preach; and, as if not to be outdone in liberality and loving-kindness, he went to hear them. I am just proceeding with my narrative, and telling all I know about Mr. Dusenbury, because, as an honest historian, I think I ought to do so. Some things to be recorded of him, will, of course, be good; and, as he is only a fallible human being, some things will bear marks of imperfection. The very first Sunday that he officiated in Rockford, he spoke several times of the "Sabbath" School, ap- pearing to take a delight in using a word which, to many scrupulous ears, had aparty sound, aind reminded them of the days of the round-heads. Perhaps they were too particular, for Mr. Dusenbury was obliged to use the word Sabbath every time he read the command- ments in Church; but, I must confess, I would rather that he had been satisfied with the "' Lord's day," or " Sunday."     34       ROOKFORD PARISH. Mr. Perkins, Mr. Patterson, and some other strict Churchmen, were much astonished, one day, to hear the rector give notice, that on the next Sunday, a collection would be made for the American Bible Society. Mr. Dusenbury never suspected that he had occasioned any uneasiness by this announcement, until XMr. Patterson mentioned it to him the .next day.  "I long ago adopted Bishop Hobart's views about these amalgamation societies," said this gentleman, "and I was taken completely by surprise, when you gave out a notice in our Church, such as never had been heard there before."' "Whatever may have been the state of things in Bishop Hobart's time," replied the clergyman, with perfect good temper, "I am disposed to think that the case is widely different now. Then, all Protestants were satisfied with King James's translation of the Bible; and most denllominations united in circulating it. In our day, however, several of them, thinking that a version may be made which will more effectually advance their peculiar views, are doing their best to set the minds of men against the old version, the great storehouse of pure and undefiled English.* The American Bible O Hear the testimony of Mr. Newman, even since he became a rene- gade from the true faith: "Who shall say,that the uncommon beauty and marvellous English of the Protestant Bible is not one of the strongholds of heresy in this country? It lives in the ear, like a music that can never be forgotten,-like the sound of church-bells which the convert hardly knows how he can forego. Its felicities often seem to be almost things, rather than words. It is part of the national   ROCKFORD PARISH-.           35 Society stands by King James's translation most man- fully; and it is our duty, and interest, as it strikes me, to help her in this effort to stem the torrent of fanatical prejudice, which is endeavoring to sweep from      the world its choicest treasure." I do not know what answer Mr. Patterson made to this reasoning; but, for one, I am disposed to think that the clergyman was right. I almost reproach myself, that I have not found time before this, to tell the reader something more of the affairs of  our former friends.   Who has forgotten Robert Smith, the farmer's son, whose education    Mr. Mason had taken upon himself, arid so faithfully carried on, until death interrupted his work?   This young man was now a student in one of our theological seminaries, and looking forward to his ordination as deacon in the course of another year. Mr. Greenfield, the   Methodist preacher, who   had been   admitted to the  ministry of the Church, had become the popular pastor of a large and flourishing congregation, not more than a day's ride from Rock- mind, and the anchor of the national seriousness. The memory of the dead passes into it. The potent traditions of childhood are stere- otyped in its verses. The power of all the griefs and trials of man is hidden beneath its words. It is the representative of his best mo- ments ; and all,that there has been about him of soft and gentle, of pure and penitent and good, speaks to him forever out of his English Bible. It is his sacred thing, which doubt has never dimmed, and controversy never soiled. In the length and breadth of the land, there is not a Protestant, with one spark of religiousness about him, whose spiritual biography is not in his Saxon Bible." 4   86      ROCKFORD PARISH. ford. Mr. Turner, the other clergyman whom we all know very familiarly, continued to exercise his min- istry to the glory of God, and the edification of His Church. The elder Miss Jones, Mrs. Augustus Pey- ton's sister, died during Mr. Peterjohn's incumbency. So much for the changes which time wrought. We can now go on with the thread of the history. Besides his valuable assistance in the Sunday School, and among the poor, Mr. Patterson, while pursuing his theological studies, rendered good service as a lay- reader, in some neighboring hamlets. When he began these missionary labors, (for such they were in fact,) he was a stranger to the people, and had to make his way, step by step. Their prejudices against the Church were inbred; and the greater their ignorance of her claims, the more inveterate their hatred. Mr. Patter- son was accustomed to go out, soon after dinner, when he had an appointment for a night service, and spend the afternoon in making friendly visits, distributing Prayer-Books among the children, and showing them how to find the places and respond. The interest which the young manifested, soon extended to their elders; and the amount of good which this one devoted man was enabled to do, even before his ordination, was wonderful.   ROCJasORD PARISH.        37 CHAPTER VI. SPIRITUAL RAPPINGS. ALL IN COMMOTION. THE DANCING SHOVEL AND TONGS. MR. DUSENBURY AMAZED. THE SERMON. HOW THE PEOPLE LISTENED WITH BOTH EARS. THE STORY WHCH GREW SO FAST, STOPPED SHORT IN ITS COURSE. '( The Spiritual Rappers will give a public exhibi- tion in n inden -Hall, to-night, at 7' o'clock, and may be consulted in private, at any hour during the day." Such was the announcement which appeared in the Rockford papers, and was distributed in flaming hand- bills about the street. The town was in a great state c, excitement. The female Foxes had come all the way from their home in Rochester, New York, to astonish the inhabitants of the South and West, by their magic- al skill in opening a communication with departed spirits. Some persons believed, even before any evi- dence was offered to convince them. The contagion spread like wild-fire. Major tlis, and General that, were numbered among the disciples of the Foxes. While the fever of excitement was at its height, Mr. Dusenbury was sitting, very composedly, in his room at the hotel, occupied with a book, when, won- derful to relate, one end of the fender on the hearth was suddenly lifted up about an inch from the floor,   38-      ROOKFORD PARISH. and the shovel and tongs, which were resting on the fender, fell down on the floor. He merely raised his eyes from his book, and said to a servant who came in soon after, that the rats must be undermining the hearth again; and then related what had just hap- pened. The boy, who had heard so much about spir- itual rappings for a week past, concluded, in his own mind, that Foxes, and not rats, were at the bottom of this mystery; and he so reported it among his friends. The story passed from mouth to mouth, growing tapid- ly as it went, until, much to the clergyman's surprise, he was accosted one day by a friend, in the street, to know whether his shovel and tongs had really marched out into the middle of the floor, and danced there for his amusement, as had been currently reported! Mr. Dusenbury thought it imperative on him to put a stop to a story, which, if allowed to go on longer un- contradicted, might be the cause of serious mischief. Accordingly, on the next Sunday morning, he an- nounced these words as his text: "Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils." "When the SPIRITrr OF GOD thus plainly utters a prophe- cy," began the preacher, ' we ought most certainly to look for its fulfilment. I think that the text has had its accomplishment, and that, too, in these latter days. "Man has always been remarkable, for a curious, in- quisitive, prying disposition, which renders him restive   BOCKFORD PARISH.         39 and .uneasy under the state of doubt and uncertainty, which as a dense and impenetrable fog, overspreads the path before him, and leads him to resort to modes of very questionable propriety, in order to extend his vis- ion through the dim vista of the future. Hence, the encouragement once given to soothsayers, and astrolo- gers, and magicians, and fortune-tellers. Hence, the origin of witchcraft, two centuries ago, and hence, also, the spiritual manifestations of the present day." There could be no mistake, from this introduction, that the rector was about to express his views of the marvellous performances which had kept Rockford in so much commotion of late, and every body was wide awake. "The claim which is boldly set up by many, is that they can hold communication with the departed;" thus Mr. Dusenbury continued. "Now, is., such a claim rea- sonable . You may perhaps remember the formal agreement which Dr. Franklin once entered into with his friends, that those first called away by death, should, in some way or another, inform the survivors of the state of affairs in the next world; and, inasmuch as this promise was never kept, the philosopher concludes that it was impossible for them  to do so. There have been, now and then, strange, and, probably, well-attested examples of dreams, and of what is called second-sight, which, to say the least, are sur- prising, and not easily explained. But even grant- ing all of these to be true, still, reason revolts at the idea, that any kind of telegraphic communication can   40      ROCKFORD PARIgH. be kept up between this world and 'the land that is very far off,' and that disembodied spirits should be obedient to the beck and nod of frail mortals dwelling on the earth. Neither are we left to form our con- clusions on this subjectl from the deductions of reason alone. The Bible, by many incidental statements, for- bids our entertaining the opinion, that the spirits of the departed hold converse, in any way, with those who are yet alive." The rector then went on, and, in a most convincing manner, brought forward these references from Holy Scripture; and, by the time this part of the sermon was ended, some who had been most strenuous in sup- porting the Foxes, in their delusion, began to feel rather ashamed of having committed themselves so far. "And besides all this," said the preacher, with much feeling, " how utterly absurd, that blessed spirits at rest in Paradise,--spirits, who, if they held any communica- tion with the earth, might be expected to do it in a man- ner corresponding with the importance of such commu- nications, and with the mysterious and exalted position which they occupy,--how utterly absurd, I say, that such spirits should condescend to deal in the trivial news of the day, and the ordinary affairs of life; and, as if in-imitation of the spirits of deceit and falsehood which muttered and peeped of old, should be rapping under floors and tables, and favoring the pretensions of the stupid and the bad! "And what rest would such popular spirits as Wash-   ROCKFORD PARISH.         41 ington and Franklin enjoy, who, at the same instant of time, are obliged to be holding communications with persons in every part of the Union? Time is too pre- cious, my friends, and the interests of eternity too great, to allow Christians to occupy themselves with follies and absurdities, which can serve no better purpose than to amuse the curious, and alarm the ignorant. No pos- sible good can grow out of experiments of the sort I have been speaking of; and there is room for very much of evil. Nervous persons are thus made still more nervous; and some, whose minds have become warped and weakened by the miserable delusion, have ended their days in the mad-house. Many encourage these spiritual rappings for the sake of amusement; but there are certainly amusements enough that are innocent in their nature, without tampering with spirits good or bad." Mr. Dusenbury's sermon proved to be a word spoken in season. Nothing more was ever heard of the dan- cing shovel and tongs; and the spiritual rappers have not honored Rockford with another visit.   42      ROCKFORD PARISH. CHAPTER VII.  A JUNE MEETING. THE ORIGIN OF THS CUSTOM. MR.  DUSENBURY MORTIFIED. HS EXAMPLE TURNED AGAINST HM. CHURCH TEACHNG. DR. BEDELL. BOWING IN  THE CREED. CHARLOTTE ELIZABETH. ABSURD PRAC-  TICE. WHAT MR. DUSENBURY'S FLOCK THOUGHT OF  HM.                   ..J DID my reader ever hear of a "June meeting?"If not, he may, perhaps, thank me for explaining, that t is a kind of camp-meeting, held in the woods, in Me i course of the month which gives it a name. mdu\- titudes of persons ,assemble, and religious service are  kept up for several days; and, on the outskirts of the x grounds devoted to this purpose, may be seen crowds of pedlers, with wagons laden with refreshments, and, in some obscure corners, cozy companies of gamblers, g busy with their cards. I have the authority of one of the old settlers of the West, for saying, that these meetings first began to be : held in the month of June, because the spring fashions J had then blossomed out in full glory, and it was a grand occasion to make a display of finery.  Well, a "June meeting" was going on in the neigh- borhood of Rockford; and, on Sunday, quite a number  of the inhabitants, some in carriages, others on horse-   ROCKFORD    PARISH.     43 I   back, and others, still moie zealous, on foot,-went forth to swell the crowd already assembled. I am not about to write a caricature of what was done on that occasion, or even to give a faithful descrip- tion of the meeting; so that the most fastidious need not pass over this page, for fear of finding something offensive. My object in speaking of the June meeting at all, was to introduce another topic. It seems that several members of Mr. Dusenbury's congregation were absent from Church on that memo- rable Sunday; and, like a good pastor, he inquired, tile next day, where they had been. Much to his mortifi- cation, he discovered the truth. To 'make matters still worse, he found that one young woman whom he had received into the Church, had become so excited by the June meeting exercises, that she had gone up to the anxious seat to be prayed for. I have never been able to learn what plan the rector adopted, to prevent such occurrences in future; and, for my own part, I cannot well see how he could find fault with his people for attending the ministrations of those without the fold of the Church, when he was himself in the habit, now and then, of dropping in at the various meeting-houses in town, to hear a sermon. What was right in the pastor, could not well be wrong in the lock. While I am speaking thus frankly of a little want of consistency on the part of Mr. Dusenbury, I will ven- ture to add something more. He was certainly a good preacher, and accomplished much good; but his great   "      ROCRKORD PARISH. fault was, that he took no pains to instruct his people as to the claims of the Church, I do not blame him for not making these matters the burden of his sermons ; but he might have encouraged them to read on the subject, and taught them much, in his frequent visits among them. It would be well for those clergymen who are pursuing the same course with Mr. Dusenbury, to recollect the dying remarks of the lamented Dr. Bedell. He observed, that, " like many who thought and acted with him, he had for years said little on the peculiarities of our Church, but the period had arrived when they should be taught and preached. While many in their preaching had given them too much prominency, he had given them too little. He then added, very emphatically, if God spares my life, I intend delivering a course of sermons on Episcopacy this coming winter." Every faithful pastor should see that the fences of the fold are kept up, because the sheep can be prevent- ed from wandering abroad in no other way. The min- istry, and the outward forms and ceremonies of the Church are not the faitl, we will freely acknowledge; but they form the casket for the preservation of the faith, and are indispensable to this end. Our friend Mr. Dusenbury had some other ways of his own, which we cannot altogether approve. For instance, he was always afraid to use the expression in the Creed, "He o Dr. Tyng's Memoir of Rev. Gregory T. Bedell, p. 187.   BOOCKFORD PARISH.         45 descended into Hell," lest some one present might mis- understand the import of it. The rubric certainly authorizes him to substitute another clause for this; but how much better, as it seems to us, to explain to the people what the word "Hell" means in this connection, and then repeat the Apostles' Creed as the Church has handed it down to us. Speaking of the Creed reminds me, that Mr. Dusen- bury always seemed to stiffen up his back, when the people reverently bowed at the name of Jesus, as if to rebuke them for it.* I wish he could have read the very admirable remarks of "Charlotte Elizabeth," on this point, whose soundness in the'faith he could not question; and if this did not satisfy him, we might remind him that the venerable Bishop Meade of Vir- ginia always observes this practice. One Sunday, Mr. Dusenbury was favored with a visit from a brother clergyman, who preached for him, the rector reading the service. While the stranger was ascending the pulpit, our friend retired to the vestry- room, and soon made his appearance again, without the surplice, and took his seat in the body of the church. This custom had never been known in Rockford be- fore; and it occasioned some surprise. Some fancied ",And Dreamland folk do lowly bow To own that CHRIST is GOD ; And I confess I taught them not The fashionable nod." CHRISTIAN BALLADS.   "     ROCKFORD PARISH. that Mr. Dusenbury found the chancel chairs veily hard to sit in, and preferred a cushioned pew. Othelr were unkind enough to hint, that he wished to draw attention to himself, by thus moving about from place to place, and coming out first in his white robes, and then in his black coat. One unmarried lady, on the shady side of thirty-five, who happened to be sitting near the spot where the rector stationed himself during the sermon, blushed and changed her position many times, attracted, perhaps, by the nearness of the magnet. Mr. Dusen- buery was a widower. I am no stickler for the fashion of having a long train of surpliced clergymen who are to take no part in the service, enter the chancel, and occupy the big chairs and the sedilia, merely for the sake of a display; but when one has really been officiating at the desk or altar, it looks better, to say nothing more, that he should retain his place, and his robes of office, until the close of the service. We have had so much to say about the rectors at Rockford, that we have well-nigh lost sight of the lay- members of the church. Suffice it to say, in this place, that while many of the old-fashioned Episcopalians of the parish disapproved, most strongly, of these various "kinks" of Mr. Dusenbury's, they respected and loved him, as a devout and holy man, and a zealous servant of the Lord Jesus.   ROCKFORD PARISH.        47 CHAPTER VIII. ABOUNDING IN GOOD WORKS. THE COTTAGES FOR AGED WIDOWS. FLAT-TOP COFFINS. PREPARING FOR CON- FIRMATION.  THE BISHOP TOO GOOD TO IMPOSE ON ANY BODY. USEFUL BOOKS, AND MORE NEEDED. CONCERTS IN CHURCHES. NEW MODE OF DEDICATION. "WHERE is Mr. Augustus Peyton. all this time?" somebody may be disposed to ask. He is quietly settled at home, amusing himself with attending to the im- provement of his beautiful grounds and garden, and doing some act of kindness every day. He has become a devoted member of the Church; and the graces of his dear departed mother seem to flourish again in him. God has blessed him with a devoted wife, and two sprightly children; and, possessing an ample fortune, he feels, that, as a steward of a HEAVENLY MASTER, he should show his gratitude for these mercies, by a life of usefulness. On the same quiet street where the Orphan Asylum stands, you may see, if you will walk that way, a row of neat little cottages, with a narrow garden plot be- hind each dwelling. These have been built at Mr. Peyton's expense, for the use of poor widows advanced in years, whose children are unable to afford them a com-   48      ROOKFORD PARISH. fortable home. I might tell you of other examples of his benevolence; and still there would be many more, of which no one knows, except that GOOD BEING who sees all things, and who looks down with approbation upon those that are thus striving to imitate His mercy and loving-kindness. But, while Mr. Peyton is abundant in his charities, he exercises a wise discretion in affording relief to the poor; and sometimes has very hard things said of him. As a specimen of his petty annoyances, I may mention, that having, with his usual liberality, defrayed the expenses of a pauper's funeral, he heard it reported, for a long time *after, by the gossiping and mischief- making part of the community, that "Augustus Pey- ton was very mean, to have old Peter Simpkins buried in a fiat-top coffin!" It appears that the undertakers had introduced a fashion, which put something handsome into their pockets, of making coffins with high, shelving covers, something like the roof of a house; and when Mr. Peyton was asked whether Peter's coffin should be constructed according :to the approved style, with a black cloth over it, and silver nails, he gave orders for a plain, old-style one. This was a grievous offence, as it afterwards proved; and it gave his enemies a fine subject for unkind remarks, during many months. There had been no confirmation in Rockford during the year of Mr. Peterjohn's ministry; and now the day was approaching, when the Bishop was expected, after   ROCKFORD PARISH.        49 an interval such as had seldom elapsed before. The rector was very busy, in the pulpit, and in private, trying to direct the minds of the wavering and unde- cided to the important concerns of the soul; and Mr. Patterson was redoubling his diligence, to be ready for ordination. When a clergyman begins seriously to set about pre- paring a class for confirmation, although we have many excellent works on the subject, it is difficult to find any thing exactly suited to his purpose. Some of the treatises in common use are too long and wearisome; and others, too short and dry. Most of them, having been prepared by our Bishops, or the clergymen of city parishes, are not adapted to the wants of the lower classes of people, either in style or illustration. A friend once gave Bishop Hobart's admirable sermon on Confirmation to a simple-hearted young woman, who was sincerely anxious to be ready for the reception of this holy rite. In the course of his remarks,-the Bishop speaks several times of the " imposnitio  of hands," an expression which sadly puzzled the person to whom we have just referred. When her pastor went to see her again, and inquired how she had been pleased with the tract, she said, with all sincerity, "What did the writer mean by the 'imposition' of the Bishop's hands? I thought the Bishop was too good a man to 'impose' on any body." The use of the good old English phrase, "the laying on of hands," would have saved her all this disquietude of mind. *.By   50      ROCKFORD PARISH. The Sunday School Union has furnished us with a beautiful little work, to be placed in the hands of girls from twelve to sixteen, called "Watch and Pray;" and no tract could be better adapted for general circu- lation than the Rev. Mr. Lay's "Letters to a man be- wildered among many Counsellors ;" but still, some- thing more is wanting. We greatly need a small book, in the style of "Watch and Pray," adapted to the tastes of boys and young men, and a simple, attractive tract, to be given to those who have limited time for reading, and which all who can read, however imperfectly, may. readily comprehend. While preparations were making for the confirmation, a breeze was raised, by a circumstance quite foreign to this subject. The papers had announced the coming of the "Woodburn Family," to favor the citizens of Rockford with a sacred concert; and, on the day before the entertainment was to be given, the father of the musical household calleld on Mr. Dusenbury, and having introduced himself as an Episcopalian from the East, respectfully requested permission to hold the concert in the church, that being the most capacious building in the place. The rector did not altogether approve of this use of the church; but, as it was to be a sacred concert, he could see no insuperable objection, and referred the matter to the vestry. I am happy to say, that the majority of that respectable body voted most decidedly in the negative. Mr. Patterson opened the Prayer-Book, at the service   ROCKFO1D PARISH.        51 for the Consecration of a Church, and remarked, that a building which had been so solemnly set apart " from all unhallowed, ordinary, and common uses," could not, very consistently, be loaned for a concert, whether sa- cred or profane. One of the vestry took sides with Mr. Dusenbury, on the ground that a sacred concert would no more be a desecration of the church than the ordinary rehearsals of the choir; but when Mr. Cham- bers reminded him of the promiscuous class of persons who would be present, and who, having paid their money at the door, would feel at liberty to behave as in any common room, this argument was given up. At this point in the discussion, Mr. Patterson quoted a remark of Bishop Griswold's, that he did not consider it wise to allow any use of a church, which has not in view God's holy worship; and he was about to add something more, when the rector very good-naturedly withdrew the application. Our old friend Mr. Perkins, who must always have his joke, if it can be brought in without too much ab- ruptness, reminded the vestry of the ease with which some of their neighbors settled such questions. They allowed their bells to be rung for courts, or for any other worldly purpose, and their houses of worship were thrown open, without compunction, for conven- tions and political meetings of every kind. "Do you remember," he said, "' when Senator Smith happened to be in town, while the Cumberland Presbyterians were holding a fair in their church, how they managed   52      ROCKFORD PARISH. to make capital out of the great man's presence, by in- viting him to attend the festivities, and actually went through the form of addressing him in a set speech, and presenting him with a copy of an orthodox Hymn Book, and the Constitution of the United States, all beneath the roof of the sanctuary?"Several of the gentlemen nodded an affirmative; and Mr. Perkins added: "A few weeks after this, I told sister Blanch- ard, who belonged to that society, that I understood their meeting-house would be dedicated the next Sun- day : when she answered, in perfect good faith, that she thought they dedicated it, when they gave the book to Colonel Smith i"   ROCKFORD PARISH.         53 CHAPTER IX. THE BISHOP S ARRIVAL. THE CANDIDATE'S EXAMNATION. A CURIOUS QUESTION RAISED AND DISCUSSED. THE OR- DINATION SERMON. HOW THE OLD METHODIST NODDED APPROVAL TO HS BAPTIST BROTHEiR. DRINKING WATER IN THE PULPIT, THE Bishop reached Rockford on Friday; and, the next morning, Mr. Patterson's examination for Dea- con's orders began. Besides Mr. Dusenbury, two other Priests were present, who came for the purpose of as- sisting upon this occasion. Some vely curious points are now and then brought out, in the course of these examinations; and such was the case at this time. Among other questions, one of the  examiners very naturally asked, "What sacred duties is a Deacon au- thorized to perform?" to which Mr. Patterson replied in the words of the Prayer-Book. The expression, ' In the absence of the Priest to baptize infants," led the Bishop to inquire whether a Deacon could baptize adults. Here, one of the examiners opened his eyes in astonishment, and said that if it was wrong for a Dea- con to baptize adults, he had a good deal to answer for, having several times unconsciously broken the rule, be- fore his admission to Priest's orders. Mr. Dusenbury suggested, that the case of St. Philip, the Deacon, who baptized the royal treasurer of Ethio-    "     ROCKFORD PARISH.             3 pia, was very high authority, which his offending brother might quote in his defence, if, in these days of clerical trials, he should be summoned to the ecclesiastical bar! The clergyman who had been so shocked to find him- self a transgressor of canon law, here observed, that if our Deacons are like the primitive Deacons, (which we claim,) he saw no reason why they could not baptize adults as well as infants; and ingeniously suggested, that our ordination service was taken from the form in the English Prayer-Book, and that as the English are a bap- tized nation, and not, as we are, more than half heathen, when the baptism of infants is mentioned, reference is had to almost the only class who there receive baptism, adult baptism being the exception, and not the rule. The Bishop's opinion on all these knotty points having been asked, he replied, in substance, that the case of St. Philip certainly proved the validity of such bap- tism by a Deacon, but that the Primitive Church, as a general thing, employed the lower order of the minis- try in the special work for which this office had been appointed, leaving those duties which required more knowledge and experience to be discharged by the Priest.* In the English Church, before the Reformation, sev- eral positive restrictions were made by councils, forbid- ding Deacons to baptize at all, except in extreme cases t o St. Ignat. Epis. ad Smyrn.; Bingham, Lib. iii., cap. iii. s 3. t Monumenta Ritualia Eccl. Angl., vol. iii., p. 192.   ROCKPFORD PARISH.        55 After the great rebellion, such vast numbers were left unbaptized, that the English Church, for the first time, put forth a form for the baptism of adults; and the ex- pression was introduced into the ordination service, as we have it now, that Deacons are " in the absence of the Priest, to baptize infants." With these explana- tions from the Bishop, the discussion ended; but I ven- ture most respectfully to inquire, whether an important modification of the Church's rules might not well be made in this respect, and whether she would not be per- fectly safe in allowing the same liberty to our Deacons, that was given to-St. Philip. The day following the examination was Sunday; and the good people of Rockford were making great calcu- lations upon seeing the impressive ceremonial of an ordination. The interest which had been awakened by Mr. Mason's admission to the Priesthood, several years before, had not yet died away; and his sainted spirit seemed to be present upon this occasion, which would have so gladdened his heart, had it occurred before his death. Morning prayer, with appropriate lessons, (Ezekiel iii., 17-21, and St. Luke x., 1-12,) was said at nine o'clock; and at eleven, when every inch of room in the church was occupied by the crowd of people who had flocked thither, the Bishop and two of the Priests took their places in the chancel, and Ir. Dusenbury and the candidate for holy orders knelt outside the rail. When the Lord's Prayer and a few appropriate collects had been said, and   16      ROCKFORD PARISH. the 108th Psalm sung, one of the clergymen who had come with the Bishop ascended the pulpit, and delivered an appropriate sermon. It was a plain, unpretending, faithful discourse, of which the following report ap- peared, a few days after, in the Rockford Gazette. The text was from the well-chosen words of St. Paul's second Epistle to the Corinthians, fourth chapter, and fifth verse : "Weereach not ourselves, but Christ Je- sus the Lord; and ourselves your servantsfor Jesus' sake." "At the ordination of a minister, in the quaint and plain-spoken days of old," the preacher, turning to the candidate, said, "Let me remind you, my brother, that' when you come into this place, and address this people, you are not to bring your little self with you. No; when you stand here, it is to hold up your great MASTER, in His character, in His offices, in His pre- cepts, in his promises, and in His glory. This picture you are to present to the view of your hearers, while you are to stand behind, and not let so much as your little finger be seen. "' We preach not ourselves.' Alas! that any one should be found in so sacred a place as the pulpit, mak- ing merchandise of his profession, and dishonoring the Redeemer's cause! A  man may be said to  preach himself,' when he studies, by a display of human learn- ing and eloquence, to advance his worldly interests, Another preaches himself,' and not the blessed Gos- pel of the Son of God, who proclaims his own peculiar notions, and endeavors to make them appear plausible   to others. A clergyman ought to advance nothing but what he has received from Jesus Christ, and be able, like Him, to say, 'My doctrine is not mine, but His that sent me.' Another way by which one may ' preach himself,' is by indulging in theories and speculations, of no real importance, which gratify the ears of worldly people, and secure for the minister the credit of being a genius. How widely different, this, from the prac- tice of our blessed Lord!  Many a modern divine would have carried the metaphysics of theology all over the villages of Galilee, and would have puzzled the woman of Samaria, or the inquiring ruler, with questions which, even if they could possibly be an- swered, would, so far as practical results are concerned, be found to be worth as much as what Carlyle has so characteristically described as 'bottled moonshine!' It is after a higher model, my friends, that the faithful servant of Christ endeavors to discharge his sacred trust. He preaches ' Christ Jesus the Lord.' (' Highly evan- gelical,' an old, gray-haired Methodist whispered to a Baptist brother who sat next to him in the crowded pew. The0fr nodded assent, and both listened again, most-atentively, to the preacher.) We are not prini- pals in this business, at all. We only claim to be agents and stewards. We are  ambassadors for Christ.' We preach Him, to the world, as God's only-begotten Son, our Saviour from sin, and our Mediator with the Fa- ther. From the unfolding of this glorious theme, the Gospel derives its peculiar power. A dry and dead 8    58      ROCKFORD PARISH. morality, though surrounded with all the attractions of rhetoric, and delivered in the liquid and harmonious strains of impassioned eloquence, may gratify the ear, but it must always fail to affect and improve the ]eart. The preaching of ' Christ Jesus the Lord,' is made, by Divine grace and blessing, 'the power of God unto salvation.' " Here the preacher paused, and, taking a tumbler of water from the edge of the pulpit, moistened his lips. I wish most sincerely, that clergymen would never get into this habit. The effect is bad, and the practice undoubtedly is injurious to the voice.   ROCKFORD PARISH.         59 CHAPTER X. PREACHNG CHRIST.  THE CHRISTIAN ZODIAC. SERVANTS OF THE LORD S FAMLY. THANKLESS SERVICE. LEGH RICHMOND. MOISTENED EYES. THE CONFIRMATION. GOD'S BLESSING. SETTING UP LITTLE HUMAN PROPS. THE pause which the preacher made, to take a sip of water, has enabled us to turn over a fresh page, and begin another chapter;.and now ;we are prepared to listen once more. "' We preach Christ Jesus the Lord.' We unfold the manifold proofs of His Messiahship. We repeat the touching story of His life on earth. We proclaim the doctrines which He taught. We show the design and necessity of His atonement. We establish the glorious truth of His resurrection. We declare His might, and majesty, and dominion; and, bending the knee in hum- ble adoration, we recognize His lofty and unsurpassed dignity, as ' King of kings, and Lord of lords.' The Church services, from the beginning of the ecclesiasti- cal year to its close, constitute one continued sermon upon the same inexhaustible theme, I Jesus Christ, and Hiim crucified,'--a preaching, emphatic and perspicu- ous, of ' Christ Jesus the Lord.' This is the most prac- tical of all teaching. It makes the Saviour's bright example the pattern of our daily life. The holy asso-   ROCKFORD PARISH. ciations connected with Christmas, and Easter, and Whitsuntide, are burnt in upon the mind of infancy and youth, and preserve their brilliancy of coloring, and delicacy of tint, even until old age. We are not preaching any worldly thing, when we enlarge upon subjects such as these. "But in addition to the duty of preaching 'Christ Jesus the Lord,' His ministers are required to do some- thing more. They are the 'servants' of the Lord's family. Hence, the Apostle adds in the text, 'We are your servants for Jesus' sake.' Every thing which the ministers of God can possibly do, to advance His glory and the good of His Church, they are in duty bound to do. Their time does not belong to themselves. They have solemnly devoted it to God's service. Faithful clergymen have no opportunity for ease, nor ambition, nor self-indulgence. 'Your servants!' IIow much of toil, and mortification, and sacrifice, and suffering, is implied in this! ' Yor servants!' Servants of the poorest and most ignorant of the earth; servants of the beggar in his hovel, and of the prisoner in his cell. Ah I my friends, it does require the gift of God's trans- forming grace, before proud man can bring himself to a confession such as this! We, the ministers of Christ, 'your servants!' Yours, in sickness, and in health; yours, in sorrow, and in joy; yours, to sanction and bless, in the holy rite of marriage; yours, to comfort and console, at the burial of the dead; yours, to sprin- kle the brow of infancy and age with the waters of   ROCKFORD PARISH.   baptism; yours, to break the bread of life, and to administer the cup of salvation, in the supper of the Lord; yours, to warn and instruct; yours, to guide in perplexity; yours, to animate in danger; yours, to comfort in sickness; yours, to speed the soul onward through the gate of death, towards the light and bless- edness of another world, with the commendatory prayer and a blessing. "And yet, how many kindly words we speak to dull and inattentive ears! How many weary steps we take, for those who will backbite and abuse us, when we have gone away! How many unselfish acts we do, for such as give no thanks! There is only ONE consideration which could possibly sustain us, under this overwhelm- ing weight of anxiety and care, we are 'your servants FOR JESUS' SAKE.' "If such be the relation which the Christian minister sustains to the people of his charge," said the preacher, looking around upon the attentive congregation, ' is he not deserving of their confidence and affection? And ought they not to 'esteem him very highly in love, for his works' sake?'" There was a pause; and the stillness of death per- vaded the whole assembly. The preacher turned his eyes towards the candidate, who rose from his seat, arrayed in the surplice, without a scarf; and a solemn awe seemed to creep over all that 'were present as they saw a fellow-being thus about to devote himself to a life-long work, for the good of immortal souls.  ROCKFORD PARISH. "My brother," said the preacher, the tones of his voice softened and subdued by heartfelt emotion, "My brother, you are now to be invested with the office of a Deacon in the Church of God. I need not remind you, that the ministry which you will receive at the Bishop's hands, is the same that was appointed by the Lord Jesus Himself, for the building up of His body, the Church. Let us 'magnify our office,' as the holy apos- tle did,-whose example I have held up to-day,-by labors and sacrifices, in the cause of Christ; and no- body will doubt the validity of our commission. "Our sacred office, as you well know, my brother, brings with it many cares and trials; but it has its pleasures,-pure and elevated pleasures, too. What faithful minister of Christ has not realized, within his own bosom, the satisfaction and delight which Legh Richmond felt, when he said to the ' Young Cottager,' on her bed of death, 'My dear child, what is the mean- ing of the word Gospel ' "' Good news.' "' Good news for whom?' "'For wicked sinners, Sir.' "'And who brings this good news?' "'Sir, YOU brought it to ME!' "Yes, my brother, such instances are only a foretaste of what the devoted pastor shall experience, when, with all those who, through his faithful warnings, and ear- nest entreaties, and bright example, have been brought into the way of salvation, shall stand up before God in    the judgment, and be welcomed to the rest and the rewards of Heaven. 'They that be teachers shall shine as the brightness of the firmament; and they that turn many to righteousness, as the stars for ever and ever.' My brother, I bid you God speed in your work!" The Bishop wiped his moistened spectacles, while the people, whose tenderest sympathies had been called forth by the warmth and earnestness of the sermon, began to breathe more freely. I need not stop to describe the ordination service. No one but an eye- witness can form a conception of its beauty and solem- nity.  In the afternoon, the newly ordained Deacon assisted in the service,-and the Bishop, having delivered an appropriate sermon, confirmed twenty candidates. This was a happy day for the Churchmen of Rockford. The parish was no longer small and weak, and God's bless- ing was freely poured down upon it. The members of various denominations who had attended these services, were much pleased. They felt that such an ordination was no sham. "I expected," observed one, as he walked home with a neighbor, "that the preacher would give us a long string of Bishops and Popes, including Pope Joan, and that this would be the amount of what-he had to say. But if that was not'preaching Christ,' I should like to know what is?" "Yes, indeed," replied the other. "I often laugh at Perkins, and tell him, that Episcopal ministers can    "      ROOKFORD PARISH. have precious small faith, after all, in their claims to be the true Church, because they are always putting up little props of their own, to keep it from falling, instead of leaving it to God to take care of what belongs to Him."  "You had him there, on the hip," said the first speaker; " but really, neighbor, I never had so much faith in this kind of ministry, as I have to-day."   ROCKFORD PARISH.         65 CHAPTER XI. 'HE ZEAL OF A NEW SOLDIER. ONE MSSIONARY FOR THREE STATIONS. BREAKING GROUND IN BEDFORDVILLE. THREE TO SAY THE CREED. THE FIRST SEED PLANTED. WHAT IS TO BE DONE IN FUTURE. THE REVEREND CAPTAIN PHLLIPS. THE CHURCH BUFFETED ON BOTH CHEEKS. WITH the burning zeal of a newly enlisted soldier, Mr. Patterson consulted with the Bishop and his rector, as to the plan of operations which it would be advisable for him to pursue; and they both agreed in the opinion, that he could do most service for the Ohurch, at present, by living in Rockford, and going forth, from this centre, as a missionary to several neighboring towns and coun- try stations. Experience has shown, that it is the poorest policy in the world, for a clergyman to settle down in a small village, or rural parish, and confine his labors to that contracted sphere. The slowness of building up his Master's kingdom, under such circumstances, is sure to discourage the missionary himself, and inspire the peo- ple with little confidence of future success. He preaches to the same handful of people, Sunday after Sunday; the same unvarying scenes pass before him during the week, and, at last, monotony and increasing discourage-    "      ROCKFORD PARISH. ments paralyze those energies which, in the beginning, seemed able to overturn mountains from their base. The Bishop had learned all this, from the observa- tions of many years; and he therefore represented to the new Deacon, that, by taking charge of three or four stations, and giving a Sunday in rotation to each, he would have under his care, in all these places to- gether, as many persons as would constitute a large congregation; and that the aggregate result of his labors, in the course of a year, would be encouraging to all parties concerned. Besides, by visiting these in- fant parishes, after the interval of two or three weeks, the interest and curiosity of those without the Church's pale would be kept alive; and when the missionary came to fulfil his appointment, whether in court-room, or school-house, or kitchen, he would be the lion of the day, and call out a good congregation. Mr. Patterson saw the wisdom of this arrangement; readily consented to comply with the suggestion of his advisers; and made an appointment for the next Sun- day, at Bedfordville. The young missionary had no acquaintances there, and only knew of one Episcopalian in the place,--a lady,-to whom the notice for the ser-  vice was sent. The Church would be badly off, with- i out the untiiing energy and zeal which devoted wo- men manifest in this holy cause. When Saturday came, Mr. Patterson hired a conveyance, and rode to Bedfordville; and having learned which was Mrs. Grainger's house, he slopped at the door, and intro- gj   ROCKFORD PARISH.         67 duced himself. The widow was very glad to see him; and they were soon engaged in earnest conversation about the arrangements for the morrow. Bedfordville was not in the same county with Rock. ford, although only twenty miles off. Being a shire- town, it could boast of a court-house, besides several places of worship. As these last were generally occu- pied, in some way or another, on Sundays, Mrs. Grainger had not ventured to ask for one of them, but had readily obtained permission 'for the Episcopal clergyman to preach in the court-house. The Church and her ser- vices were so entirely new to the people of Bedfordville, that a goodly number of them turned out, although they had preaching of their own. The clergyman who is obliged to conduct public worship in a strange place, with few and feeble re- sponses, is oftentimes afraid that it may be thought a lame performance, by those who are mere spectators; and so Mr. Patterson felt, upon this occasion. Mrs. Grainger had engaged the services of a Methodist class-leader to set the tune for the psalm and hymn, but, beyond this, she did not feel sure of any assistance. Mr. Patterson determined, therefore, to read only such parts of the morning prayer as Mr. Mason had been accustomed to use on such occasions. When he came to the Creed, he was surprised to find another voice, besides Mrs. Grainger's and his own, uniting in this confession of the truth; and, on looking up, he saw a well-dressed, intelligent looking man, who tarried af-    ROCKFORD PARISH. othe ter service, and introduced himself as Mr. Stewart, a saddler by trade, and an Episcopalian. He had been confirmed in New York, by Bishop Hobart, many years before; but had so long been deprived of the privilege of attending upon the Church services, that he had al- most forgotten to which fold he belonged. Mr. Stew- art walked to Mrs. Grainger's; and passed an hour in conversation with the missionary, as to the arrange- ments for the future; and it was agreed, that Mr. Pat- terson should come, once in three weeks, and officiate in the court-house, or in any other place that might be offered for the purpose. Here, then, was a foothold for the Church in Bedfordville; and, although no person in the place, besides the widow and the saddler, may have suspected such a thing, the first seed was sown that day. And it was destined not to die, until it had brought forth fruit, to the glory of God's name. While the young missionary was thus spending his Sunday abroad, other things were going on at Rock- ford. The Bishop's visitation had excited such an in- terest among the Church people, that their neighbors thought they also must be doing something; and ac- cordingly, when Mr. Patterson reached home on Mon- day, the first piece of information which his wife gave him was, that Mr. Phillips was carrying on a protracted meeting, in which several denominations were uniting with most commendable harmony and brotherly kind- ness. This revivalist was a militia captain, and a farmer, who had concluded to add preaching to his   other occupations; and as he had a powerful voice, a ready flow of words, and a superabundant supply of animal spirits, his efforts to alarm and astonish were very often successful. Among his friends and neigh- bors, he was familiarly known as the "Reverend Cap. tain Buncombe," a combination of names and titles of which he did not disapprove. Like some other fanatical people of whom we read, his admirers seemed to build their faith upon "The holy text of pike and gun; Decide all controversies by Infallible artillery; And prove their doctrine orthodox By apostolic blows and knocks."* This eccentric character gave a great many side-shots at the formalists who prayed out of books, and the priests who dressed temnselves in the rags of Popery, and the Church which had no religion; but, as neither Mr. Dusenbury nor his people noticed these sneers, I shall not stop to do it. There is a quiet unobtrusive- ness, in the religion of those who have been trained up according to the rules of the Prayer-Book, which oth- ers, who have had a different training, cannot easily appreciate nor understand. "How deep a current runs beneath the placid sur- face of a consistent Churchman's life; what humble thoughts of his own unworthiness; what meek reliance on the ' blood of sprinkling;' what perpetual prayers * Hudibras, Part i., Canto i.    70       ROOKFORD PARISH. hallow the temple of his heart; and how tru-y his life, in all its outward simplicity, is a life hid with Christ in God, men brought up in other schools of religion, can- not tell. It may be, that it is the very completeness and healthfulness of his religion, which draws a veil over it, and hides it from view. And it may be, that some partialness and disease, in that which presumes to dispute or contemn it, is that which gives it the no- toriety that awakens its own confidence and calls forth the praise of others; just as a shallow rivulet that is torn with rocks, marks its track with foam and noise, while the deep river runs in its ample channel, with majestic quietude and silence."* * Church Review, vol. vii., p. 78, A D. 1864. e    ROCKFORD PARISH.         71 CHAPTER XII. MR. DUSENBURY'S SUNDAY ABROAD.  STEAMBOAT SCENE. THE PERT PREACHERESS. A QUIET ANSWER. CHEERING PROSPECT. "NINE AND TWENTY KNIVES." WHO SHALL HAVE THE SPOILS? A NEGLECTED COLDi AND THE CON- SEQUENCES. MR. PATTERSON had the advantage of many of our clergy, inasmuch as he could afford to live without a salary. It is true, he received a small stipend as mis- sionary; but it did not cover his expenses in travelling to the several stations where he officiated, and in fur- nishing Prayer-Books for those who promised to use them.  On the next Sunday after his ordination, he supplied Mr. Dusenbury's place at Rockford, while the rector went to preach at one of the little towns where Mr. Patterson had begun to hold service, when only a lay- reader. In order to reach this point, it was necessary to go down the river in a small steamboat, which touched at various landings along the shore. Accord- ingly, on Saturday afternoon, the rector took his seat in a quiet corner of the ladies' cabin, where he had been busily engaged in reading, (with the exception of the short time spent at the supper-table,) when his attention was attracted by seeing the passengers flock   72      ROCKFORD PARISH. to that part of the boat, and take their seats. While Mr, Dusenbury was wondering with himself what all this might portend, a meek-faced, middle-aged female, in the garb of a Quakeress, stationed herself by the table, and, with great gravity and composure, gave out a text, and began to preach! The rector immediately thought of St. Paul's injunc- tion, "Let your women keep silence in the churches; for it is not permitted unto them to speak." 1 Cor., xiv., 34. And again: "l et the women learn in silence. I suffer not a woman to teach." 1 Tim., ii., 11,12. His first impulse was, to rise up and leave the cabin. He was, however, so surrounded by those who had come in to hear the sermon, that he could not effect his escape, without making himself a more conspicuous ob- ject than he desired. When the Quakeress had ended her discourse, a hat was handed round, and a small col- lection was made for her benefit. Most of the men then retired to their own end of the steamer. By this time, Mr. Dusenbury had resumed his read- ing, when he was startled by the shrill tones of the preacheress, who said to him, "Is that a pious book a Has it the name of Jesus Christ on every page a"He was so astounded by these impertinent questions, that he looked at the woman for a moment, in silence, and then quietly remarked, "I believe it is a good book, Madam," and then continued to read, as if nothing had happened. The old Adam, within, would have persuaded him to speak out his mind more freely;   ROCKFORD PARISH.        73 but he kept silence, which was by far the better ! course. Mr. Dusenbury was much gratified to find what a congregation his young friend Patterson had been able to collect, and how much interest was felt in the Church; and he returned home, on Monday, cheered and refreshed by his day of missionary labor. As the boat approached the dock, he heard a bell ringing, which proved to be a summons for the good people of Rockford to leave their daily business, and go and help the Reverend Captain Buncombe, with his revival. This gentleman, it seems, had preached, the night before, what is called in popular language "a crack sermon," from the text, "INine and twenty knives," Ezra, i., 9th verse. That he made a great cutting and slashing, in all directions, may very readily be imagined. The revival was now at its height; and as mourners began to crowd the anxious-seats, the different denom- inations which had been laboring together in this work became uneasy, lest Captain Phillips should monopo- lize the lion's share for himself. A goodly number were declared to be " hopefully converted ;" but, by the time they had determined in their own minds whether baptism should be received by sprinkling or by immersion, and whether Calvinism or Arminianism was most in harmony with the Scriptures, their ardor cooled, and many speedily fell away. Our Church displays her wisdom, in only insisting that her children shall e    74      ROCKFORD PARISH. believe the great doctrines of the Gospel, as contained in the Apostles' Creed. In minor points, she leaves them untrammelled. Mr. Dusenbury complained, somewhat, of a cold, on his return from his late missionary excursion; but, thinking it was nothing serious, he went about as usual, and neglected to take proper remedies for it. The next Sunday, the effort which it cost him to speak, increased his cough; and, while reading one of the lessons in the afternoon, he felt a strange sensation in his lungs, and then, something rise in his throat; and on applying his handkerchief to his mouth, it was crim- soned with blood. The hazard of venturing any fur- ther, was too great to be thought of; and, accordingly, with as little abruptness as might be, he closed the ser- vice, and retired to his lodgings. Alarming rumors spread through the parish, and the death of Mr. Mason was too fresh in the minds of the people, to allow them to hear of their pastor's illness with unconcern. The physicians who were called in, pronounced the hemorrhage to be slight, the effect of speaking too much with irritated lungs, and they recommended rest and recreation, as necessary to a cure. At first, Mr. Dusenbmury could not bear even to think of ceasing from his labors, for a few weeks; but, he was soon convinced, that such a course was imperative, and he began seriously to consider what course he ought to pursue, with reference to the parish. He offered to   ROCKFORD PARISH.         75 resign; but the vestry begged him not to insist upon this, but to travel for a while, and when his health should be sufficiently restored, to return to the flock, by whom he was so greatly beloved. They also agreed to provide for the supply of the pulpit during the period of s absence. Ah! it is sad, to see a zealous and devoted clergyman stopped short in his work! It is a mysterious provi- dence, which we cannot fathom. But experience has often proved, that wasting health and blighted expecta- tions make the Saviour precious. "Hopes of growing usefulness, of a wide and still extending sphere of in- fluence, of churches built, and congregations gathered, of the disconsolate comforted, and the wandering re- claimed; what young clergyman has not cherished such hopes? And when the darkness of desolation has settled down everywhere, and the health, the enter- prise, the energy, which might have commanded the hoped-for success are sapped and undermined by the wasting touch of disease, whose finger is it that points away to mansions in the skies, where naught destroy- ethll? whose promises dwell with such compassionate emphasis upon the reward of that good which was pur- posed and desired, but never accomplished?"* O Bishop Smith's sermon at the funeral of the lamented John B. Gallagher, late rector of St. Paul's Church, Louisville, Ky.   76      ROCaKFORD PARISH. CHAPTER XIII. THE INVALID SEEKS SUNNY SKIES. A DEACON WITH AN OVERLOAD OF CARES. OPPOSITION AT BEDFORDVILLE. DR. SAMPSON SLASHGILL. SERVING TWO MASTERS. SIX PREACHERS AND ONE MORE. THE MSSIONARY ALMOST FORGOTTEN. As autumn was wearing away, Mr. Dusenbury made his arrangements to go to New Orleans, and per- haps to Havana, during the winter. Such was the course which was then generally pursued, in the early stages of diseases of the lungs. With the additional light which a longer experience has now given to the medical world, the rector would have been mounted upon a good horse, and sent forth to travel in a climate more bracing and uniform. The prayers and good wishes of his people followed him; and uniting with them most heartily, in both, we shall still confine ourselves to the course of events at Rockford. The vestry made proposals to Mr. Patterson, to sup- ply the rector's place for a while, which he cheerfully consented to do. This was the best arrangement that could possibly have been made. Every body knew Mr. Patterson, and respected him very highly; and   ROCKFORD PARISH.        " besides, his familiar acquaintance with the affairs of the church, would enable him to carry out Mr. Dusenbury's plans, without interruption. These heavy responsibili- ties at Rockford prevented the young clergyman from officiating, on Sundays. at the missionary stations men- tioned in a former chapter; but, he managed to spare a week-day, once a month, to be devoted to each. In some respects this was not a bad arrangement; because, by thus visiting these places when the members of dif- ferent denominations had no preaching of their own, they went more readily to hear him. Things went on swimmingly at Bedfordville for some time, until several persons had become interested in the church, and a small parish had been organized, when, all at once, the usual spiteful opposition to Epis- copalians began to be aroused. At each successive visit, Mr. Patterson heard fresh reports on the subject; now, that this preacher had been warning his people against attending the Church services; and then, that the court-house could no longer be had, on Monday nights, when these services were generally held. The bright hopes which had encouraged the missionary, at the beginning of this enterprise, gradually faded away. Gloom and discouragement seemed to thicken. Mrs. Grainger, the widow lady who had been the main stay of the embryo congregation, had been called from home by the illness of a sister, and was detained, by this and other causes, for several months. In addition to all this, Mr. Patterson found, one Monday afternoon,   T 8'     ROCKFORD PARISH. upon going to Bedfordville to meet his appointment, that quite a formidable opposition was raised against him. As I am  recording events which took place "within the memory of men still living," (to borrow a phrase from Macaulay's English History,) I need not go into full details. It will be necessary, however, to explain, that Dr. Sampson Slashgill, one of the Rock- ford preachers, hearing of the efforts which had been made to establish a church in the neighboring town, resolved to quash the undertaking, by the might of his puissant arm. "Where are you going so fast, this morning?" asked one of the elders of his congregation, who saw the doctor riding by on horseback. "To Bedfordville," he an- swered, still speeding onward as he spoke; "I am going to kill out that tormenting Episcopacy, which Patterson is trying to plant there." Dr. Slashgill could do many things. He could de- liver excellent stump-speeches, on any subject, and on either side of a question. He always made a conspic- uous figure at temperance meetings, and school con- ventions, and other occasions of the sort; and although he never failed to prepare himself most thoroughly, beforehand, for these public displays, he wished to be thought an off-hand man, and before rising to address the people, he might generally be seen, seated in a front pew, or on the platform, very busy in writing down a few notes. He was also very diligent in the business of the world, as well as in that which con-   ROCKFORD PARISH.         79 cerned his profession as a minister; and scoffers at, re- ligion were accustomed to express great anxiety to know which master he served best, God or Mammon. This is the Dr. Slashgill, who is now on his way to Bedfordville. With the burning zeal of a certain per- secutor of old, whom we need not stop to name, he is not content with waging war against the Apostolic Church of Christ, in his own town, but he is dogging its ministers about, to places more remote. On Monday afternoon, rather later than usual, Mr. Patterson arrived at Bedfordville, and drove up to the house of his friend, Mr. Stewart, the saddler, in pro- found ignorance of all that I have just related. As the court-house could not be had, arrangements had been made for holding service in a little school-room, which, being private property, was not under the control of trustees. Tbjowner, though not an Episcopalian, had kindly offered it for the purpose. May the gracious Saviour remember for good all such acts of Christian kindness, done towards the feeble and persecuted mem- bers of his flock! "I fear we shall have a small turn out, to-night," said Mr. Stewart, as he wrapped a few candles in a news- paper, for lighting up the school-room, and took his hat to go with the clergyman. "Why so?" returned the other; " the weather is pleasant, and the walking good." "Have you not heard," inquired the saddler, in surprise, " that your great Dr. Slashgill is here, with six other preachers, holding a protracted meeting, for   80      ROOKFORD PARISH. the express purpose of driving us from the course?" ] Indeed!" said Mr. Patterson, "I knew nothing of it. But I trust that the doctor and his friends will find, that the Church which is built on a rock of adamant, cannot be blown away by a slight breeze." Mr. Stew- ard's prediction proved too true. They found only three or four persons at the school-room; and Mr. Pat- terson, with a heavy heart, celebrated divine service, and gave a short extemporaneous discourse at the close, and then made an appointment for the next month, as if nothing discouraging had happened. Meanwhile, Dr. Slashgill and his six brethren are seated in a large, square pulpit, brilliantly illuminated with lamps; and after one has given out a hymn, and another read a few verses of Scripture, and a third has "Ied in prayer," the mighty man from Rockford rises before a crowded congregation, and with a text of Scripture as a motto, launches out in a lengthened tirade against Popery, Puseyism, and Prelacy. Many of those who heard him were highly delighted; many more became weary before the discourse was ended; and when Mr. Lamerson, a pale-faced, cadaverous- looking man, rose up in the square pulpit, and said, with uplifted hands, "Receive the benediction ;" there was one universal buttoning up of coats, and putting on of tippets, and a hasty retreat down the crowded aisles. "A crack preacher, this Doctor Slashgill," said one. "The sermon was a pretty tall effort," responded an-   ROCKFORD PARISH.        81 other, "but not equal to his speech at our railroad meeting, last county-court day." Mr. Patterson and the Episcopal Church seem to have been quite wiped away from the memory of man. 40   82       ROCKFORD PARISH. CHAPTER XIV. TRUE MSSION OF THE CHURCH. APOSTOLIC PATTERN. THE CLERGYMAN'S WIFE. THE TEMPEST WHCH DR. SLASH- GILL EXCITED. MR. STEWART GIVES UP. THE HEROIC EPISTLE. MR. DUSENBURY GOES TO ROME.  LOCUM TENENS. IT would be wrong in me to convey the impression, that Mr. Patterson was not at all discouraged by his last visit to Bedfordville; but it would be equally far from the truth, if I should intimate that he had any idea of abandoning the field. Had he belonged to the class of clergymen who regard the Episcopal Church' as one among many, which is to make its ap- peal to public favor, elbow its way along, and acknowl- edge itself to be merely an equal with those about it, he would have said at once, and with truth and reason, "The ground in that place is preoccupied; and, as the people seem to prefer the systems of religion to which they are accustomed, I will be at no further pains to make them see the beauties and benefits of mine." But Mr. Patterson felt otherwise. He was a minis- ter of that universal Church of Christ, which was preaching the Gospel to a lost world, for hundreds of years before the first Presbyterian, or Baptist, or Meth- odist minister was born; aye, for ages before the Papa-   ROCKFORD PARISH.         88 cy and its corruptions had been dreamed of. In going to Bedfordville, or. to any place where the Church was unknown, he tried to do, as he believed the early min- isters of Christ would have done, under like circum- stances. In every town where they preached, different forms of religion were already established; and the same argument which would have justified Mr. Patter- son in fleeing before the tempest excited by the elo- quence of Dr. Slashgill, might have been urged by them, in leaving such unpromising fields as they found. If all denominations are equally in the right, it is needless for the Episcopal Church to be giving herself any concern about them. It was quite a relief to the young missionary, to attend to his parochial duties at Rockford, and behold the triumphs which the truth had already gained in the midst of the fiercest opposi- tion; and he was encouraged to hope, that the grain of mustard-seed would not perish at Bedfordville. I have said very little about Mrs. Patterson, thus far; because her quiet, retiring habits afforded few occasions for such notice. While her husband had no particular concern in the parish at Rockford, she took no active part in its affairs; for it would have seemed officious and presuming. But, now that he was left in sole charge, she felt bound to exert herself more. She vis- ited the orphan-house, and looked after the poor widows, for whose benefit Mr. Peyton had built those neat cot- tages; and she made herself so generally useful, that persons who had only known her as an amiable sohool-   84     sROCKFORD PARISH. girl, the pretty, black-eyed daughter of Captain For- rester, said, with one accord, "What an admirable clergyman's wife Mrs. Patterson is!" A few days after the missionary's return from Bed- fordville, he received a very doleful letter from Mr. Stewart, who reported, that the revival was still going on, and that Dr. Slashgill's attack upon the Church had furnished many persons with weapons with which to inflict wounds and bruises upon "the Body" of our blessed Lord,-a work in which they seemed to take great delight. "Down with it, down with it, even to the ground," was the deafening cry, as in days of old. The worthy saddler concluded, by hinting, in a delicate way, that as there was no chance of establishing the Church in Bedfordville, perhaps it would be well for Mr. Patterson to withdraw his appointment for the next month, and bestow his labors where they would be better appreciated. The missionary's hopes were not much revived by these. melancholy tidings; but, like a true hero, he would not abandon the cause, which he had solemnly ,sworn, at the altar of God, to contend and suffer for until death; and he accordingly sat down, and wrote the following reply: "ROCKFORD, February 15th, 18-. "MY DEAR FrEmND, "I am sorry to find, from the tone of your let- ter, that you are so desponding about the success   ROCKFORD PARISH.         85 of the efforts which we have been making, to gain a foothold for our beloved Church, in your town. If it were a mere human organization, or if we had nothing more to depend upon than our own wisdom or strength, I should be as low-spirited on the subject as you are. But I cannot forget, that the DIVINE SAVIOUR has prom- ised to be with His Church always; and the persecu- tion which we suffer, is one evidence that we are His true disciples. As I defray all the expenses of my trips to Bedfordville, out of my own pocket, you will pardon me for saying, that, with God's help, I shall continue to keep my regular appointments, without in- terruption,-and rather than be a tax upon any one, I would cheerfully pay for the warming and lighting of the school-room in which we are kindly allowed to worship. "Praying that God will strengthen your faith in His good promises for His Church, believe me, very truly, yours,          GEO. DAVID PATTERSON." I have recorded this letter in full, because I shall have occasion to refer to it again. Every few weeks, some member of the parish re- ceived a few lines from the absent rector, giving an account of the state of his health. These reports, I am sorry to say, were by no means favorable. Having re- mained on the borders of the Gulf of Mexico during the winter, and finding that he had not regained his usual strength, he concluded to accept the offer of a   86      ROCKFORD PARISH. free passage from New Orleans to Europe, which a generous merchant had made him; and early in the spring, a formal resignation of the parish was sent to the vestry at Rockford. Tile separation between a faithful pastor and an attached people, is always pain- ful; and I shall forbear dwelling upon a subject so distressing. Mr. Dusenbury's resignation had hardly been pub- licly announced, before it was currently reported, in certain quarters, that he had "gone to Rome!" The fact that he had embarked for Europe, and that he might perhaps visit the imperial city, was quite suffi- cient to give rise to the story that he had embraced the abominations of the scarlet lady on the seven hills. Poor man! little did he know, while crossing the wide Atlantic, what unwarrantable liberties that impudent personage, "General Rumor," was taking with his good name. It was now proposed to call Mr. Patterson to the rectorship; but he begged his friends not to think of it, and insisted, very sensibly, that he was too young in the ministry to assume such a responsibility. He consented, however, to continue to officiate for them, until a suitable clergyman could be found to accept the charge of the parish.   ROCKFORD PARISH.        87 CHAPTER XV, PREACHNG ON TRIAL. HOW AFFAIRS PROSPER IN BED- FORDVILLE. NEW RECTOR CALLED. ANOTHER MSSION- ARY JOURNEY. THE PAST FORGOTTEN. AWKWARDNESS OP A CLERGYMAN IN GOING TO A NEW PARISH. WANT OF ACTIVITY IN VESTRYMEN. PARTIES IN THE CHURCH, NECESSARY SAFErY-VALVES. BISHOP HOPKINS'S SERMON. WHEN Mr. Patterson's determination in regard to the rectorship was known, and it became necessary to look for a clergyman, it was proposed by some, to invite this one and that one, to spend a Sunday at Rockford, and (although it was not expressed in so many words) to " preach a trial sermon." How a minister can consent thus to degrade his sacred office, it is difficult to understand; and yet, so insensi- ble are many persons to any want of propriety in this, that the request is often made, and not unseldom ac- ceded to, without scruple. Indeed, in a little village- church, which offers its pastor a salary of about four hundred dollars a year, I have known THREE clergymen to be preaching their trial sermons on the same Sun- day; one, in the morning; the second, in the after- noon; and the third, at night! The fastidious people who were expected to contribute this immense sum of money, sat as a committee of critics, in dignified judg-   88      ROOCKFORD PARISH. ment upon the respective claims of these three ambassa- dors for Christ. O! it is too humiliating, to think of such a degradation of the sacred office. The apology urged for such unseemly practices is, the extreme pov- erty of the clergy, and the urgent want of their fam- ilies. But surely they must forget the Master's ques- tion to the apostles, and their ready answer, so full of encouragement to those who labor in God's vineyard: c' When I sent you without purse, and scrip, and shoes, lacked ye any thing? And they said, Nothing." St. Luke, xxii., 35. The plan of inviting a clergyman to " come on trial," met with so much opposition, that it was soon aban- doned; and then the vestry gave an unconditional call to several ministers, in succession, all of whom de- clined it. Thus far, most of their applications had been made at the north; and now, after these unavail- ing efforts, a similar letter was written to the Reverend Horatio Howard, a clergyman in a southern diocese. While we are waiting for his response, let us accom- pany Mr. Patterson on his next trip to Bedfordville. Mr. Stewart received-him very warmly, no allusion being made to their late correspondence; and the ser- vices on the first Monday night in March went on, as if Dr. Slashgill had not held his protracted meeting in February. Perhaps the people were somewhat pro- voked with themselves, for having treated the Episcopal clergyman so shabbily on that occasion, and wished now to atone for the past. At any rate, the protracted   ROCKIFORD PARISH.        89 meeting and its excitements had died away, and Dr. Slashgill's name was not mentioned, while some of those who had gazed with wonder at the square pulpit so -well filled with preachers, now responded, right heartily, in the responses of the Prayer-Book. After a few weeks' delay, Mr. Howard's letter was received; and, much to the satisfaction of the vestry, he announced his acceptance of the call. A few weeks more found him at Rockford, making arrangements for the removal of his family. He was a fine-looking, intelligent man, in the merid- ian of life, of gentle, prepossessing manners; and his parishioners were charmed with him, in the pulpit and out of it. This going into a strange town, without knowing any person there, and being therefore obliged to form an entirely new set of acquaintances and friends, is a trying thing, as every clergyman has experienced for himself. "His first feelings are always those of solitude and loneliness. His congregation are strangers to him. Their circumstances and condition are un- known. , He preaches to them, 'with weakness, and fear, and much trembling.' He visits them with diffi- dence, and many apprehensions. He is without ad- visers in whom he can, or ought to, confide unhesi- tatingly. He must think alone, feel alone, plan alone, and often weep and suffer alone, in contemplating the work before him. He may be cheered by the native buoyancy of youth, or he may be depressed by some   90      ROCKFORD PARISH. measure of experience in his work.  Months will pass, before he can begin to take root and grow in his new soil. Under such circumstances, he will be in- evitably exposed to errors and mistakes. He will con- fide, perhaps, in the wrong persons. , He will be inm- posed upon by the forward and the insincere. How much of his comfort and usefulness, then, depend on the character and influence of the laity around him, and especially of the leading officers and members of the Church in which he is appointed to serve! What a blessing, an abiding blessing, to him and to them, is a faithful, forbearing, praying laity around him! Aquila and Priscilla illustrate it' in one case of Scrip- ture history. St. John gives us a beautiful similar illustration in another,-the faithful and well-beloved Gaius."* Mr. Howard could not complain of any lack of at- tention; but-it must be frankly acknowledged, that there was\  great want of energetic men in the Rockford vestry. Most of them were too closely confined by their own business, to leave them much time for attend- ing to the temporalities oft the Church. Leaving out Mr. Augustus Peyton and Mr. Perkins, I do not think I could point to another person who gave himself much concern in this respect. The former of these gentle- men usually went round with a paper, at the beginning * For these admirable remarks, I am indebted to an editorial in the Protestant Churchman, for March 29th, 1856.   ROCKFORD    PARISH.      91 of each year, and made up the rector's salary by sub- scription; while the latter performed the drudgery of collecting it once a quarter. If either of them should die, or remove elsewhere, I know not what Rockford would do without them. In his Churchmanship, Mr. Howard came much nearer to Mr. Mason's standard than ZMr. Dusenbury had done; but the fact that clergymen holding conflict- ing views on some points of doctrine, had officiated in the same parish with acceptableness and success, show- ed that, after all, our differences are not material, and that we all belong to " one body," and are contending alike for one unchanging faith. In his admirable sermon before the General Conven- tion, in 1847, Bishop Hopkins proved, most conclusively, that it was wise in the Church, thus to allow a great variety'of opinion on all subjects where it can be safely tolerated, because it is a necessity of human nature; that parties ought to be allowed, because they afford the best security for truth, in our present state of imper- fection; and that they are wonderfully adapted to suit our various characters, and employ even our infirmities, more beneficially for the general good. "The age we live in is an age of strife and discord; and, within our own brief experience, we have seen every Protestant denomi- nation in our land, rent asunder by party spirit. We, too, have had our share; and many a false prophet has pre- dicted that the Church must be divided, and her unity destroyed. And yet we know, that all our dangers have   92        ROCKF ORD PARISH. only been a new and blessed testimony to the strength of that Ark of God, against which the winds and waves of passion and of controversy have beat in vain.     A few deluded and misguided men have, indeed, aban- doned it; but they were only as the falling of some grains of sand from the ocean rock, leaving the mighty mass unshaken and unmoved."* "O, pray for the peace of Jerusalem: they shall prosper that love thee."   ' Peace be within thy walls, and plenteousness within thy palaces!" * Bishop Hopkins's Sermon, p. 21. In this connection, I cannot for- bear quoting the last sentence from a sermon of the Rev. J. H. Morri- son, before the Maryland Convention, in 1854, with reference to the duty of all parties in the Church, to sink MNOR differences, and fight for the ESSENTIALS of the faith. "When Jerusalem was besieged by the Roman army to which it was soon destined to fall a prey, we find its wretched factions tearing at each other's bowels. We are shocked, even at this distance of time, by the recital. But the crime of the infatuated Jews was small, compared with ours, if we spend that time in the petty strife of party, which should be given to the rescue of a world lying in wickedness." C    ROCKFORD PARISH.        93 CHAPTER XVI. JULIA HOWARD.  CLERGYMENIS CHLDREN NOT ALWAYS BAD. THE INVALID MOTHER. THE SCHOOL OF ADVER- SITY. DR. GADSBY'S ILLNESS. PRAYERS OF THE CHURCH. THE GOOD PHYSICIAN. RECRUITS FOR THE MNISTRY. PROSPECT BRIGHTENING AT BEDFORDVILLE. WHAT a sweet, lovely girl, Julia Howard is!" said Mrs. Patterson to her mother, as they left the parsonage, where they had called upon the rector's family. "She is, indeed," replied Mrs. Forrester; " and how well her light, flaxen curls, and deep blue eyes, cor- respond with her expression of countenance, and the soft, musical tones of her voice." "And only think, Ma," continued Mrs. Patterson, "she is but sixteen years of age; I could scarcely be- lieve it, when she told me. She seems to be as well informed, and as polished in manners, as a full-grown woman." '"Julia Howard," remarked Mrs. Forrester, "is a happy example to prove, that clergymen's children do not always grow up to be crooked and deformed plants, as the uncharitable world has been in the habit of saying." Mrs. Howard had long been an invalid; and, owing to this cause, her daughter had been obliged to take a   ROCKFORD PARISH. larger share of the household cares upon herself than otherwise would have been the case. Julia often sat in her mother's place at table; superintended the kitchen arrangements; and, still more important than all, acted as the teacher of her brother Henry, a bright boy of six or seven. Yet, with all these daily duties, she found time to go on with a course of reading which her father had marked out for her, and to practise both music and drawing, for which accomplishments she had a decided talent.- It was a sad trial for Mrs. How- ard to be confined as she was, for the most part, to the house, her only relief being a change of posture from the bed, or lounge, to an easy-chair, in which, during the fine mild days of summer, she could be wheeled into the yard and garden: Several years had passed since she had enjoyed the priceless blessing of good health; but her lessons in the school of affliction had not been lost upon her. No one could behold the pen- sive expression of her thin, pale face, lighted up, at intervals, with a sweet, placid smile, without feeling drawn towards her; and this favorable impression was confirmed, by her winning manners and intelligent dis- course. Thle mother and daughter were devoted to each other; and the care and culture which had been spent upon Julia, in her earlier years, were now well repaid, by her devoted attentions to the helpless in- valid. We need not say who arranged that sweet bouquet of flowers upon the mantel-piece in Mrs. Howard's   room; or what hand placed the large Prayer-Book on the little stand at her side; or whose gentle voice so often asked whether she did not wish that something should be done. During the first summer and autumn that succeeded Mr. Howard's settlement at Rockford, a good deal of sickness prevailed throughout the town and neighbor- hood; and among others prostrated by the malignant fever was Dr. Gadsby, who, in the infancy of the parish, had made himself very useful as leader of the Choir. During Mr. Mason's lifetime, he had only been what the world calls "an outside member'" of the Church; but he was now a devoted communicant, and a man universally esteemed. Although his practice was large, and occupied nearly the whole of his time, he always made it a matter of conscience to attend Divine service, at least once a day, and arranged his professional visits accordingly. Besides, he was accus- tomed to place a mark before all the charges on his ac- count-book, for his Sunday's services; and when his bills were collected, he invariably devoted the amount of these charges to charitable purposes. Would that every devout physician would do likewise! Dr. Gadsby never stopped to inquire, whether the patient who desired his advice was rich or poor; and many is the kind act which he did, for those who had nothing to give him in return but their thanks. How like the conduct of the GREAT and the GOOD PHYSICIAN, are such disinterested compassion and love! No wonder    '96     ROCKFORD PARISH. that many devout and earnest prayers were offered in his behalf; and no wonder, that the whole congregation rejoiced to see the good physician resume his accus- tomed place at church, and desire, in a public thanks- giving, to testify his deep sense of God's merciful good- ness towards him. Physicians have generally beeh faithful friends to the clergy; and it is always to be lamented, when the lat- ter, by allowing their names to be used in support of the pretensions of quackery, have given just occasion of offence to those who have devoted their lives to the study of the healing art. The Church is also under great obligations to the medical profession, for having furnished many able men to swell the ranks of the Christian ministry. We need not go beyond the boun- daries of our own country, for evidence of this fact. The late Bishop of Pennsylvania, the gifted author of "Episcopacy tested by Scripture," and the excellent and devoted Bishop to China, both were eminent phy- sicians. The list of the clergy will show a number of "M D.'s," who are now serving the Church as Priests and Deacons. And so it has been from the beginning. Need I remind my reader, that ST. LUKE, the evange- list, was a physician? Colossians, iv., 14. One of the best qualifications which our modern missionaries could possess, in order to gain access to the heathen, whether at home or abroad, would be an acquaintance with medicine. No --one felt more rejoiced at Dr. Gadsby's recovery   ROCKFORD PARISH.         97 than Mrs. Howard, whose long-continued ill-health af- forded him many opportunities to show the kindness of his heart, and his sympathy with the suffering. But it is time that I should again report upon the progress of the little parish at Bedfordville. So soon as the new rector had entered upon his duties at Rock- ford, Mr. Patterson returned to his old arrangement with his missionary stations, where Sunday services were again resumed. When Mrs. Grainger returned to Bedfordville, and the efforts of Dr. Slashgill to destroy the tender plant of Episcopacy, root and branch, had been forgotten, vigorous efforts were made to build a small church. The people of Bedfordville, of every name, contributed for this purpose; and their neighbors of Rockford parish were not unmindful of their duty in this behalf. Besides a liberal subscription for the build- ing, Mr. Augustus Peyton promised an organ, so soon as it should be required. 6   98      ROCKFORD PARISH. CHAPTER XV11. CHAPTERS AND JOURNALS. IRISH PROTESTANTS. NECESSITY OF SOME PREVIOUS KNOWLEDGE, IN MAKING RESPONSES IN THE BAPTISMAL SERVICE. EMBARRASSING POSITION. "THE AFORESAID GENTLEMAN." A SKIRMSH WITH THE ENEMY. THE PENTECOSTAL MRACLE REVERSED. IN drawing up these annals of Rockford parish, I am greatly indebted to various documents which have come into my possession, consisting, in part, of letters firom the several clergymen who officiated there, and also of private journals which they kept for their own satis- faction. Although the following epistle is without date, some internal evidences enable us to determine, that it must have been written at this period of the history. As one half of the sheet is torn off, it is impossible to say to whom it was addressed; but the reader will discover, that it is a friendly letter from the rector to a brother clergyman. ("I owe you many apologies, my good friend, for not having, before this, acknowledged the receipt of your last favor; but sickness in the parish, and the pressure of many cares, have prevented. You will be glad to hear, that young Patterson is succeeding so well in his I   ROCKFORD PARISH.         99 portion of the field. They have actually begun to build a church in Bedfordville. My own labors have been blessed beyond my hopes; for which I render devout thanks to God our Saviour. We have several Irish families belonging to the Church, in whose welfare I take a lively interest. Having been Protestants in a country where Popery is so powerful, they are well es- tablished in the faith, and much more conversant with the points of difference between us and Rome, than many ofour own people. "I had rather a provoking illustration, last week, of the importance of giving a little private instruction, be- fore parents bring their children to baptism, in order that the responses may be properly made. At the close of the second lesson, at the Friday afternoon service, an Irish woman presented her infant, at the font, and when I propounded the question, 'Hath this child been al- ready baptized, or no?' she answered, with great earnestness, No, your riverance; for why should I be after bringing him to be baptized again!' Every thing went on properly until we came to the question, ' Dost thou believe all the Articles of the Christian Faith, as contained in the Apostles' Creed?' The mother replied, with perfect sincerity, ' I believe as the Church teaches, your riverance? Concealing my mortification as well as I could, I asked, again, ' Wilt thou be baptized in this Faith?  The poor woman looked unutterable things, and exclaimed, after a brief pause, 'It is not me, at all, your riverance, but it is the child, who has come   100     ROCKFORD PARISH. to be baptized.' You may rest assured, that I shall not be caught in this way a second time. "I have heard you speak of the strange blunders which good father Slocum is in the habit of making, while reading the church service. He spent a Sunday with me, not long since; and, besides closing the les- sons in his own peculiar way, ' Thus endeth the first lesson,' he gave us his original pronunciation of sever- al proper names. I was reminded of the English parish clerk, who used to read the first lesson for the clergyman, and make such a hash of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego. As the names are twelve times repeat- ed in the third chapter of Daniel, after getting through them the first time, he called them, afterwards, ' the aforesaid gentlemen!) We are certainly very remiss in paying so little attention to the cultivation of good reading. But I have exhausted your patience, as well as iny spare time, and I must bid you good-by. "Mrs. Howard is rather more comfortable than when I last wrote, and the children are well. God bless you, my dear brother. "Yours, faithfully in Christ, C HORATIO HOWARD." This letter will give the reader an insight into a part of the rector's character, not hitherto disclosed in our biography; his keen sense of the ludicrous. This was natural with him; but he never allowed it to appear on ordinary occasions, and only those who knew him   ROCKFORD PARI SII  .     101 most intimately, suspected him of it. But, while thus careful to repress any thing bordering upon indecorous frivolity of manner, the very existence of this lively appreciation of the absurd gave a point to his remarks, which rendered them very striking and effective. Upon one occasion, when visiting the little Irish settlement in the outskirts of the parish, he encountered a Popish emissary, who was trying to puzzle a Protestant Hiber- nian, with some of the subtle arguments so often employed for such purposes.  The wily proselyter desisted from his regular assault, when Mr. Howard came in; but he now and then put in a remark, edge, wise, boasting, for example, of the recent appointment of several Romish Bishops. "That will make three Bishops in this one State alone," the controversialist added, with an air of triumph. "But, figures show," remarked the rector, " that the members of the Roman Catholic Church are not numer- ous enough in that region to require so many shepherds over them. Indeed, there has been an actual diminu- tion in your strength. When I hear that a Bishop has been appointed for this city and that, with the evident design of making an impressive display, I am reminded of the declining days of the Roman empire, when, as a stroke of policy, the size of the legions was contracted, and the number of commanding officers increased." The Romish champion was evidently nettled, and replied, rather sharply, "You Protestants have little to boast of in the way of strength. While you are   102     ROCKFORD PARISH. divided, and speak all the languages of Babel, the holy Church, everywhere, utters her Divine teachings in the ancient Latin tongue." "You have forgotten, perhaps, my friend," returned Mr. Howard, " that God wrought a special miracle, on the day of Pentecost, to enable the Apostles to lninistel intelligibly among the various nations of the earth. The Church of Rome, on the contrary, requires that only oNE language should be used, everywhere, and that, not spoken by any people now dwelling on the globe. If it had been God's will that the services of His Church should be in Latin, the miracle on the day of Pentecost would have been confined to the single gift of the Latin tongue." No direct reply was made to this; and the confused logician tried to hide his embarrassment, by speaking very rapidly of other things. ,i   ROCKFORD PARISH.        103 CHAPTER XVll. ROBERT SMTH ORDAINED.  CURIOSITY TO tHEAR  HM PREACH.  YOU GAVE US A BEAUTIFUL SERMON.9 SALUTARY CAUTION. THE OLD WOMAN IN THE DUFFE L CLOAK. BISHOP JOHNS'S WISE COUNSELS. COLD LAMB AND GOOSEBERRY PIE.  HATS ON IN CHURCII. DR. JOHNSON. REVERENCE FOR THE SANCTUARY. BEFORE the dog-days vere quite gone, Mr. Robert Smith arrived from the East, where he had completed his theological studies and been ordained to the holy ministry. He had many relations and friends living in Rockford and the neighboring country, whom he pro- posed to visit for a short time, before entering upon his labors. We shall find, hereafter, that the consequences of this sojourn were by no means unimportant. He called upon the rector, as a matter of course, and was invited to preach the next Sunday morning. Those who had known him as a boy, were anxious to hear him, and a goodly number of his former companions turned out on the occasion, "to see Bob Smith," as they said, "in gown and bands."       \ The young deacon conducted himself very modestly, and delivered a respectable, but rather flowery dis- course, out of a new and showy sermon-cover. On his way from the Church to the parsonage, where he was   104     ROCKFORD PARISH. expected to dine, he encountered several old acquaint- ances, who stopped to shake hands, and to thank him for his beautiful sermon. The young clergyman blushed, stammered out something in reply, and was evidently relieved when this embarrassing ordeal was passed. He had too much good sense, to place more value upon such every-day compliments than they deserved; but, at the same time, he ran the risk of being, as so many others have been, made vain by flattery. Without seeming to offer any advice upon the occa- sion, Mr. Howard gave him a salutary caution, in a very unexceptionable way. "You remember, my young friend," said he, "the story of the clergyman who, upon being told by a parishioner that he had preached an excellent sermon, replied with great good- humor, ' O yes; the. Devil informed me of the fact, before I left the pulpit!"' "It is strange," remarked Robert Smith, " that people will be so inconsiderate. But now that we have spoken of the sermon, I may as well ask you to tell me candidly, what fault you found with it. I am only a tyro in the pulpit, and your criti- cisms will be of service to me.) "As you ask my opinion," said the rector, "I must tell you, that it struck me as being rather too ambitious in point of style, and not simple enough for a promis- cuous congregation. A young preacher once delivered a discourse in the presence of his uncle, a shrewd and sensible old gentleman, who observed to him, afterwards, *^a   ROCKFORD PARISH.         105 cDid you notice that poor woman in the duffel cloak, who sat under the pulpit?' 'Yes, Sir.' 'Well, my man, remember that people like her have souls as well as their betters, and that a minister's business is to feed the poor and illiterate, as well as the. rich and the edu- cated. Your sermon to-day was a very ingenious and well-composed discourse, and in that respect did you great credit; but there wasn't a word in it for the poor old woman in the duffel cloak.' " Robert Smith laughed heartily, and thanked the rector for his friendly hint; and while they go in at the parsonage gate together, I will detain the reader for a few moments longer with the same subject. "In preaching," Bishop Johns once wrote to a young friend in the ministry, "I would urge upon you the greatest plainness: I do not mean harshness nor sever- ity, but the simplest mode of presenting and illustrating the essential doctrines and duties of our religion. If the preacher, in composing his sermon, would imagine himself in the presence of some one of his people near to death, and seek for such views of his subject and such a spirit as he would then desire to have, it would guard him against much that is inappropriate, and tend to the directness, tenderness, and simplicity which we all so much need. I hazard another suggestion, without fear of wounding you; for none of us are so proper and careful in this respect as to render it inapplicable. It is this: to do all we can, and yet scrupulously to avoid speaking of our services or ourselves. MWe are apt, 5a   f 106     ROCOKFORD PARISH. without being aware of it, to indulge in a spirit of self- glorification. Nothing is more quickly discovered by others, and yet the temptation is constant and insid- ious." This advice deserves to be written in letters of gold, and read and pondered over, by every minister of the Lord Jesus Christ. The quiet dinner at the parsonage passed off very pleasantly; a leg of cold lamb, and two or three dishes of vegetables, constituting the first course, and a goose- berry pie, the second and last. Julia Howard looked as charming as ever, and dis- charged her part of the rites of hospitality with unaf- fected simplicity and grace. After dinner, her little brother, who had taken a great fancy to the young deacon, had the high satisfaction of showing Robert Smith his neat collection of books, and, by and by, when their acquaintance had ripened still more, Henry conducted him to a small inclosure back of the garden, where a pet lamb was feeding on the rich herbage. They could scarcely believe, that the intermission had past, when the church-bell announced the hour for afternoon service. I should be very glad to know what was Robert Smith's opinion of the rector's beautiful daughter; but I suppose it would be hardly civil to trouble him with such questions at present. As the two clergymen entered the church, they found several boys sitting there with their hats on, waiting for'the clock to strike four. Mr. Howard spoke to   ROCKFORD PARISH.        107 them kindly, and gently lifting the covering from the head of the smallest urchin, he said, "My son, we never wear our hats in God's house." The others took the hint, and doffed theirs at once. The world may laugh at such reverence for the sanctuary, and call it super- stition ; but every reflecting mind must acknowledge it to be right. If we must err on either hand, it is better to be too strict in our notions upon these subjects, than too careless. Boswell, the gossiping biographer of the great Dr. Johnson, relates, that, in their travels to the north of Britain, they one day visited the remains of an ancient church; and although the roof had long since been destroyed, his companion uncovered his head when he crossed the threshold. In sad contrast with this, is the thoughtless irrever- ence of those who march into church with their hats on, and, as soon as the blessing is pronounced, march out again in the same swaggering style.   108     BOCKFORD PARISH. CHAPTER XIX. MSS BUSBY. HOW SHE WATCHED OVER THE CONDUCT, OF OTHitERS. "DON'T RIDE IN MR. PATTERSON'S BUGGY." A TABOO ON DANGEROUS BOOKS. "WHY DIDN'T MR. HOWARD GO TO THE GRAVE ." SELT TNG OUT TO THE POPE. BEDFORDVILLE. THE OLD LETTER AGAIN.-- "GOOD MORNING, Miss Busby," said an active, good- humored clerk, in a Rockford store, as this well-known personage came in. "What shall I have the pleasure of showing you, in the way of silks and satins?" "O, I do not wish to trade, to-day, Mr. Francis," the maidenly lady replied; "I only called to give you a little advice!" The young man looked astonished, but politely de- sired her to go on with her lecture. Miss Angelina Sophronica Busby hemmed and hesitated a moment, and then began: "I hear that you have been going up with Mr. Patterson to Bedfordville, several times lately;" and she looked him through and through with her sharp eyes as she spoke. CLERK. "Yes, Ma'am; I hope there is no harm done."           MTss BUSBY. "I don't know; but I would advise you not to go with him any more." CLERK. "Why not? I have relatives living there; and,   ROCKFORD PARISH.        109 as Mr. Patterson has a spare seat in his buggy, I find it a very pleasant way of visiting them." Mss BUSBY. "Ah! but you don't know him so well as I do. He just invited you, because he hopes to make a proselyte of you." CLERK. "I think you mistake, Miss Angelina; for I asked permission to ride with him myself, before he ever thought of it." Miss BUSBY. "Well, that may be; but, depend upon it, he has designs upon you. I know he in- vited you to take a class in the Sunday-School, and to sing in the choir; and I have heard, too, that you have been with the singers several times, on Saturday nights." There is no telling what more the conscientious maiden might have added, had not a customer come in, who required the attention of the clerk, and gave Miss Busby an opportunity gracefully to retreat. Almost every town, however small, is blessed with the services of several such personages, who, like the Argus-eyed French police, pry into every nook and corner, and call persons to a strict account for what they do, and, oftentimes, for what they don't do. Mr. Brown is berated for having been absent from meeting; and Mr. Smith, for allowing his daughter to attend the Episcopal church in, the afternoon; and a taboo is put upon books which might unsettle the faith of the un- wary, (such as the "McEllen Family," and "Amy Herbert," and "Walk about Zion," and the "Double   ROCKFORD PARISH. Witness,") and exaggerated stories, on various subjects, are kept constantly afloat. Having discharged her duty to Mr. Francis, the active corrector of morals and manners set out in another direction. For curiosity's sake, let us follow her into that old, dilapidated house, and find out what business takes her there. Perhaps she is engaged on an errand of mercy to the poor or the sick. A pale-faced girl, of eighteen or nineteen years, is sitting in a half-furnished room, and looking sorrowful. Miss BUSBY. "And so your poor mother's dead, Sarah ?" SARAH. " Yes, Ma'am; she was buried yesterday." Miss BUSBY. "It was very unkind in Mr. Howard, not to go out to the grave with the corpse. If it had been Mr. Peyton, or Mrs. Forrester, or some other rich person, he would have found time, I'll be bound." SARAH.    0, I am sure, Miss Busby, you misjudge him. He was very kind in visiting Ma, and in bring- ing her nice things when she was sick; and he came in a pelting rain, and read the burial service at the house." Although Miss Angelina Sophronica belonged to a denomination which buried their dead in the cold ground, without one word or prayer, she was very hard upon Episcopalians, if she even suspected that they had been doing likewise, and she accordingly persisted: "But why did he not accompany the procession, as usual ?"   111   ROCOFORD PARISH.   SARAU. "He could not, Miss Busby; as he had made an engagement, to go on some important business to the country; and you know Ma was not buried in the cemetery, but on uncle Barnes's farm, which is six miles out of town." MISS BUSBY. " And so your'Ma was buried without even a prayer ?" SARAH. "No, indeed, Ma'am.    Mr. Howard got Mr. Robert Smith to go to the country in his place; and he said the prayers at the grave." Miss BUSBY. "Ah! then it must be true. I heard that Robert Smith is to marry Julia Howard." And so, after a few common-place remarks, the gossip left the house, to carry the seeds of mischief elsewhere. But where is Dr. Slashgill, for so many months past? Has heleftRockford toits fate? By no means. IHe has been even more busy than ever. It has long been a favorite plan with him, to dispose of his meet- ing-house in some way, and build one which should surpass the Episcopal Church; and he has finally suc- ceeded in carrying through a part of his scheme. The Roman Catholics have bought him out; and they have already set up an altar and a crucifix, upon the very spot where, for so many years, anathemas the most violent had been hurled against the Pope and his reli- gion. His followers were so few and feeble, that they might not have been able to establish a church in Rockford, for fifty years, if this favorable opportunity had not been afforded them. I do not mention this,   2     ROCOKFORD PARISH. because Dr. Slashgill is the only offender in this respect. It has been too common with Protestants of every name, thus to furnish a shelter for the enemy, when a good price has been offered in dollars and cents. I have not heard of Dr. Slashgill's visiting Bedford- ville of late. Perhaps his secular business may have prevented; or, perhaps, his great effort on a former occasion, did not accomplish all that he expected. The little church in that place is nearly completed; and Mr. Patterson is making his arrangements to remove there before winter. Bedfordville will then be his head- quarters; and, from this point, he will continue his missionary operations in other directions. I should be very glad now, if Mr. Stewart would read over his letter, advising the young missionary to abandon the effort at Bedfordville. He would be apt to realize the truth of God's promises, to help and de- fend His Church.   CHAPTER XX. THE BLUE-COVERED BOOK. .SERMON, IN A SICK ROOM. A LIGHT THROUGH THE DARK VALLEY. i I FEEL JUST AS DAVID DID." CHANCE. STRANGE INCIDENT. THE FIN- GER OF GOD. A CARPENTER BY DAY, AND A DIVINITY- STUDENT BY NIGHT. MR. HowARD   used to write something, every now and then, in a square, blue-covered blank book. I shall copy a few leaves from this, for the reader's benefit. "JOURNAL. "l MONDAY, P. AM., September 17th. " I discharged rather an uncommon duty this after- noon,-that of preaching a sort of funeral sermon at the bedside of a poor man who was about to die. The circumstances were these. Old Mr. Whiting has been afflicted, for a long while, with a cancer; and, although he was a Baptist, I often visited him, and found him very thankful for the attention. " As the painful malady gained upon him, and wasting strength reminded him that the end must be near, he sent a messenger, requesting that I would appoint a day for preaching at his house, that he might hear the Gospel once more before he died. I cheerfully complied with his wishes; and, this afternoon, accompanied by Henry, and my little friend Kitty May, I crossed the   "4     ROCKFORD PARISH. river in a flat-boat, and, after a long, romantic walk through green lanes and up a steep, rocky path, we reached the cottage door. It was built of unhewn logs; but every thing about it was neat and clean. Mr. Whiting was lying on a low bed, ill one corner of the room; and several of the neighbors, (the nearest of whom lived half a mile off,) were seated, awaiting my arrival. "The whole scene was touching and beautiful. Here was a fellow-mortal about to set forth on his journey to another world; and we, his kindred and friends, had assembled, to speed him on his way, and bid him fare- well. "After reading a chapter of the Bible, and saying several appropriate prayers, we united in singing the familiar hymn, ' When I can read my title clear To mansions in the skies.' I then read for my text the 4th verse of the 23d Psalm: 'Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil; for Thou art with me; Thy rodtand Thy staff they comfort me.' "The Christian's bless hope in the prospect of death, was the theme upon which I dwelt; and the sufferer upon the bed, and the firiends who sat about him, paid devout attention to the preached word. "When the simple service was ended, I took the old man by the hand, and commended him to our Heavenly   ROCKFORD PARISH.        115 Father's care. He looked up with glistening eyes and a radiant smile, and said, ' O Sir, I feel just as David did, when he wrote the text, I fear no evil, because the good God is with me.' "MONDAY, September 21. "We talk, oftentimes, of accident and chance, when we mean or ought to mean the Providence of God. I remember an observation made by Mr. Trench, upon the expression in the parable of the good Samaritan, that 'by chance there came down a certain priest that way.' He says, that ' The original would justify us in saying rather by coindcidence, than by chance; by that wonderful falling in of one event with another, which often seems to men but chance, yet is indeed of the fine weaving in, by God's Providence, of the threads of different men's lives into one common woof. He brings the negative pole of one mans need into contact with the positive of another manes power of help; one man's emptiness, into relation with another's fulness. Many of our summonses to acts of love are of this kind; and they are those, perhaps, which we are most in danger of missing, through a failing to see in them the finger of God.'* "These remarks remind me of something which hap- pened to myself some months ago. After the second service on Sundays, I generally feel nervous and ex- cited, and in no condition to sit down to read; and 4t Trench's Notes on the Parables, p. 245.   16     ROCKFORD PARISH. therefore I make it a practice, in good weather, to take a quiet walk by the river-side, before tea. So accus- tomed have I become to that particular road, that I sel- ddm think of taking any other, when I have nothing but my inclination to consult. " On the particular Sunday afternoon of which I am now speaking, I turned my face toward Bedfordville, and walked in that direction. As it was a road much more frequented than the other, it seemed strange that I did so; but, although I saw many persons going the same way, which prevented me from enjoying the pri- vacy I desired, I resolutely went forward. From what took place afterwards, I firmly believe that it was one of those occasions, when what we call ' chance' is the directing Hand of God. I had not gone more than a quarter of a mile, when a young man, named Edgar Fielding, with whom I had only a casual acquaintance, accosted me, and modestly desired permission to ac- company me in my walk. After a little general con- versation, he began to speak more particularly of his own case. From being a wanderer about the country, and a youth wholly destitute of religious principles, he had now become permanently settled at Rockford, work- ing as a carpenter; and what was better than all, he had begun seriously to ask what he must do to be saved ? When the day of rest dawned, week after week, and he heard the confusion of sounds produced by the various bells of the town, summoning the bewildered people so many different ways, he knew not which road to take,   and with all honesty of purpose, he had been going from place to place, trying to discover for himself which was right. i A person thus puzzled and perplexed, who only sees the clergyman in church, arrayed in his official robes, knows not how to gain access to him in private, for the removal of his doubts; and young'Fielding expressed great thankfulness for having fallen in with me at this time, as it were by chance. I spoke to him plainly of 'the old paths,' and promised to give him some books to read. He came for them early the next morning; and then mentioned what he had been too backward to do before, that he not only desired to be a Christian, but a minister of the Gospel. I encouraged him in this desire, and made arrangements by which he could pursue his studies at night, and come to me for assistance whenever he required it. And thus he has gone on since the Spring, working at his trade by day, and applying himself to books by night."    "8     BOCKFORD PARISH. CHAPTER XXI. THE THUNDERINGS OF THE BOANERGES. MR. BARNES'S NOTES. CHRISTMAS. SIDE BLOWS AT THE CHURCH. BETTER BOOKS FOR OUR PEOPLE. CONTRAST BETWEEN THE PAST AND THE PRESENT. MR. HOWARD'S SERMON. A HOST OF WITNESSES. THE 25TH DAY OF DECEMBER, OUR SAVIOUR'S BIRTH-DAY. ON the Sunday before Christmas, several of the Rock- ford pulpits thundered out terrible denunciations against the time-honored practice of the Church, in cel- ebrating the birth-day of our blessed Lord. Every one  of the Boanerges must have sought for weapons from the same armory, in this strange warfare; .for all quoted (with an air of cool contempt for those who en- couraged the wide-spread superstition) the words of Mr. Barnes, in his popular "Notes." Commenting upon St. Luke, ii., 8, where the shep- herds are spoken of as watching over their flocks in the open field, at the time of our Saviour's birth, he gravely tells us, that "It is clear from this, that HE was born before the 25th of December, or before what we call ' Christmas.' At that time it is cold, and especial- ly in the high and mountainous regions about Bethle- hem." While speaking of Mr. Barnes, I may be allowed to   ROCKFORD PARISH.        119 express surprise, that so many Episcopalians, both of the clergy and laity, encourage the circulation of his books among families and Sunday-School teachers. Does St. Luke, in the Acts, speak of the high festi- val of EASTER? Acts, xii., 4. Mr. Barnes must coldly sneer at the ignorance and absurdity displayed by the translators. Does the samle sacred penman record the doings of the Apostles, and furnish us with examples proving that confirmation, or " the laying on of hands," was practised in their day? Mr. Barnes instructs our families and our Sunday-School teachers, that they did no such thing! While the admirable practical lectures of Bishop SUMNER, and the PLAIN COMMENTARY which has more recently appeared, and that treasury of bibli- cal knowledge, D'OYY AND MANT, are to be obtained, why need our people seek false doctrine, for themselves and their children? Well, as I was saying, several of the Rockford preachers went out of their way, to speak in dispar- aging terms of Christmas, and to advise their people against its observance; but, notwithstanding this, the children and the colored people began their rejoicings, before daybreak; many of the stores were shut; and hundreds of families had company to dine with them, and spend the evening; and, I should be afraid to say what a multitude of orthodox persons, of every name, gave presents to their families; and, better than all, the church was opened at eleven o'clock, and a large congregation attended, and blessed God for the gift of a   120     ROCKFORD PARISH. Saviour; festoons of evergreens adorned the walls, joy- ful anthems were sung, and Mr. Howard preached a sermon, explaining why the day was kept; and the Lord's Supper was celebrated; and, after service, the pupils of St. Mary's School and the children from the Orphan House had a feast. It must have made those persons feel very happy, who contrasted this season of prosperity with " the day of small things," when Mr. Bigler contrived to shut the Episcopalians out of the court-house, and Mrs. Peyton's parlor was used for worship on Christmas-day. So mnuch interest was excited, at the time,by Mr. Howard's sermon, which seemed effectually to answer the ill-natured remarks that had been made on the Sunday previous, that I shall offer no apology for copy- ing a part of it. "Even if we allow, for a moment," said the rector, "that the assertion of the fault-finder is true, and that we cannot determine the precise time when Jesus was born, the duty and propriety of setting apart some day on which to commemorate so great an event, must commend itself to every devout and well-disposed mind. But we are not thus left in doubt about our Saviour's birth-day. St. Luke, ii., 1-7, speaks of an enrolment or taxing, as having been commanded by Caesar Augustus. Now, it is very plain, that by determining the date of this enrolment, we fix the time of Christ's nativity. Writers of the Western Church were accustomed to look into the Roman records, for this purpose; and   ROCKFORD PARISH.        121 Justin Martyr, who flourished only a hundred and forty years after our Saviour, referred the Emperor Antoni- nus Pius and the Roman Senate to the census made at Bethlehem, as a sure proof of the date of Christ's birth. Hear his language: 'There is a certain village in the land of Judea, distant thirty-five stadia from Jerusalem, in which Christ Jesus was born, as ye can learn from the enrolments completed under Cyrenius, your first Procurator in Judea.? " You must remember, my friends, that Justin was at Rome, where he had an opportunity of consulting the document of which he speaks; and nothing but the most undoubted evidence of its existence and authen- ticity, could induce him to hazard the assertion which he so boldly makes. " Tertullian, A. D. 200, when writing against Mar- cion, the heretic, who denied that Christ was, like other men, born in infancy, uses this language: 'Finally, concerning the census or enrolment of Augustus, which the Roman archives preserved as a faithful witness of the Lord's nativity.' Among St. Augustine's writings we find thirteen sermons for Christmas-day, in one of which he remarks: ' As the Church hath handed down, John [the Baptist] was born on the 8th before the Kalends of July, [June 24th,] but the Lord was born on the 8th before the Kalends of January, December 25th.' "The golden-mouthed St. Chrysostom  preached a Christmas sermon in the city of Antioch, on the 25th of December, A. D. 386, about fifteen hundred years ago, 6    122     ROCKFORD PARISH. and thus addressed his hearers: 'Ye may expect a worthy reward of this your zeal, from Christ, who to-day was born in the fesh.' From a sermon delivered on the same festival, by Paul, Bishop of Emesa, A. D. 431, it seems, that the 25th of December was generally celebrated by the Church universal, before the council of Ephesus.* "As to the shepherds' watching their flocks by night," continued Mr. Howard, " and the supposed in- consistency of this fact with the birth of Jesus in De- cember, the whole argument rests on a false assumption. Bethlehem, though an elevated, is not a cold region. St. Jerome, who lived there many years, describes the climate as being milder than that of Rome. The mer- cury usually stands, all the month of December, at 46. Corn is sown during this time; and grass and herbs spring up after the rains, so that the Arabs drive their flocks down from the mountains into the plains. The most delicate never make fires till about the end of No- vember; and some pass the whole winter without them. "From these facts," said the rector, in bringing the argumentative part of his sermon to a close, "I think it is established beyond a doubt, that our Saviour was born on the 25th day of December, the day which the Church throughout the world has united to celebrate in honor of His coming in the flesh." a For an expansion of the argument, and for fuller authorities, see Jarvis'8 History, vol. i., 563, etc.   ROCKFORD PARISH.        123 CHAPTER XXTI. THE OFFENDER WITH A GREEN PATCH. REPROOF BADLY ADMNISTERED. ADVICE TAKEN LITERALLY. CALLING HARD NAMES. PRIMTIVE CHRISTIANS AND REFORMERS. LACK OF EARNESTNESS IN THE PULPIT. THACKERAY. BABEAU'S PENETRATION. PREACHERS MUST THEM- SELVES FEEL, IF THEY WISH TO MAKE OTHERS FEEL. MR. CHAMRERS. (Standing behind the counter in his clothing store. A man comes in, with a green patch over one eye.) "Ah, friend Jones, I am afraid you are doing badly." JONES. (In much amazement.) "Why, Mr. Cham- bers, what do you mean?" MR. CHAMBRERS. "Do yOU need to ask. Don't your face speak for itself? And ain't your eyes bound around with red ferreting?" JONES. "I suppose you intend to say, that I am a hard drinker; but whoever told you so, has said what is not true, and so good morning to you, and many thanks for your civility." The Senior Warden, Mr. Chambers, was an excellent man, but too blunt and plain-spoken. The dialogue just recorded, occurred early on Monday morning. In his sermon the day before, Mr. Howard had tried to impress upon his people, the duty of showing more interest in each other's welfare, and how much good   124      ROCKFORD PARISH. might be done by a kindly word of advice, given at a proper time. The Senior Warden had treasured up the preacher's counsels, and began to put them in prac- tice on the first occasion. My readers need scarcely be told why his well-meant admonition proved so offensive to Mr. Jones. It was too abrupt, and was expressed in too dictatorial a way. The same caution conveyed in gentle words, would have been kindly received. Perhaps the rector had not been explicit enough, in bringing out this point. Clergymen often say things, in set phrases of their own, which convey to the minds of many in the congre- gation a very different idea from what was intended. A minister who had exhorted his people to read the Bible on their knees, meaning thereby, that it should be done with an humble, teachable, prayerful spirit, was greatly surprised to learn, some time afterwards, that several old ladies had taken his words literally, and had placed themselves in a kneeling posture, whenever they opened the sacred volume! Mr. Howard, was not a little annoyed, one Sunday, by some imprudent expressions of a clerical friend who happened to occupy his pulpit. They both agreed, perfectly, in their Church views; but there was this difference between them:-while Mr. Howard was careful to avoid all harsh names, in referring to the va- rious religious bodies, the stranger spoke, without hesi- tation, of " dissenters," and "schismatics," not real- izing how much mischief was done in this way.   ROCliFORD PARISH.        125 If our Church is really the Church, then should her members speak and act with the dignity which becomes such a belief. "Persons of an ancient and illustrious family are generally remarkable for their civility to in- feriors. They do not think it -necessary to be always asserting their own superior standing in society, by de- riding that of all others. Do ( Churchmen' expect to convert their ' dissenting' brethren, by calling them ugly names .", Besides this unfortunate mode of exciting the ill-will of his neighbors, the visiting clergyman, whose sermon we are now speaking of, made use Qf several expres- sions which were sadly misapplied by the unlettered part of the congregation. Thus, when he referred sev- eral times to the "Primitive Christians," many thought he was speaking of the "Primitive Methodists;" and when the authority of the "Reformers" was quoted, the same persons thought he had in his mind the mod- ern society of which Mr. Alexander Campbell, of Beth- any, Virginia, is the father and founder. As I have avoided mentioning the name of this cler- gyman, I may safely tell you one thing more about him. He preached with so little earnestness and ani- mation, that one would suppose he did not care much for what he was saying. Is not this a fault too common in the pulpit? "I  heard a humorous balladist, not long since," says o  Evangelical Catholic, vol. i., p. 101. 1852.   126      ROCKFORD PARISH. Mr. Thackeray, "who performed a negro ballad that, I confess, moistened these spectacles in the most unex- pected manner. They have looked up, with deep re- spect be it said, at many scores of clergymen in pul- pits, and without being dimmed; and behold, a vaga- bond, with a corked face and banjo, sings a little song, strikes a wild note which sets the whole heart thrilling with happy pity."* The gifted author of "Vanity Fair" and other well- known works, here speaks the honest truth; honest, but melancholy. Why is it, that the ambassadors of Christ so often deliver their message to dull and listless ears? One would think, that whenever the Almighty conde- scended, in any way, to speak to creatures like our- selves, all the world must hearken. But this is by no means the case. I am certain, however, that the peo- ple are not the only ones at fault. When the priest speaks as if he really brought a message from Heaven, teaching and admonishingdike one whose soul is en- gaged in the matter, he willit waste his words. "However highly gifted he may otherwise be, it is a valid objection to a preacher, that he -does not feel what he says. An obscure man rose up to address the French Convention. At the close of his oration, Mira-- beau, the giant genius of the Revolution, turned round to his neighbor, and eagerly asked, Who is that . The other, who had been in no way interested by the ad- o Lectures on English Humorists, p. 285.   ROOCKFORD  PARISH.      127 dress, wondered at Mirabeau's curiosity. Whereupon the latter said, 'That man will yet act a great part;' and, when asked to explain himself, he added, ' He speaks as one who believes every word he says.' "Much of pulpit power, under God, depends on that. They make others feel, who feel themselves. It is true that, like a concave speculum cut from a block of ice, which, concentrating the rays of the sun, kindles touch- wood or gunpowder, a preacher may kindle fire in oth- ers, when his own heart is cold as frost. It is also true, that he may stand like a finger-post on a road, and nei- ther lead nor follow; and God may thus in IIis sove- reign mercy bless others, by one who is himiself un- blessed. Yet it commonly happens, that what comes from the heart of preachers reaches the heart of hear- ers.",*  t "The Gospel in Ezekiel," (Guthrie,) p. 15-16.   ROOKFORD PARISH. CHAPTER XXTTT. THE LITTLE CLASS. HOW AN INVALID MAY BE USEFUL. THE LADY OF THE MANOR. PREPARING CHLDREN FOR CONFIRMATION. TEACHNG OF THE PRAYER-BOOK. BISHOP HEBER. THE MAIDENTS BLUSH. A VIsiTOR EXPECTED. ADVICE OF IMPORTANCE. "MY dear," said Mrs. Howard to her daughter; one morning, "I am uneasy about little Betty Hill. It is three days since she was here; and I fear that she or her mother may be sick." "It will not be much out of my way," answered Julia, "and, after I have attended to the errand at the store, I will go and inquire whether any thing is the matter." So, putting on her neat, becoming bonnet, and kissing her mother's pale cheek, she de- parted. Although Mrs. Howard's infirm state of health would seem to have afforded ample excuse for avoiding any extra exertion, she felt it to be a duty to try and be useful, in some way, to the people among whom she lived. Confined, for the most part, to the house, she could not go about, looking up objects which might be benefited by her attention; but she contrived to accom- plish much good, in her own retired and quiet sphere. One of her happy arrangements was to gather a class   ROCKFORD PARISH.   129   of girls at'her room, two afternoons in the week, and carry them through a course of instruction, preparatory to their Confirmation the next spring. Without pre- suming to act the part of the "Lady of the Manor," whom Mrs. Sherwood rather strangely represents as taking the whole of this labor off the pastor's hands, she felt that the description of persons thus brought under the influences of the Gospel might receive some impressions for good, from her efforts, and thus be better prepared to profit by the ordi- nance of the Church to which they were looking for- ward. Mr. Mason had taught the people in his day, that their children should be trained up for Christ, from their infancy, and that, if faithful in this respect, they would be ready for Confirmation at fifteen or sixteen years of age. The same views were held by the pres- ent rector; and it is difficult to understood, how those who profess to follow the Prayer-Book can doubt the propriety of such an arrangement. At the Baptism of every infant, this charge is given to those who bring it to the font. "Ye are to take care that this child be brought to the Bishop to be confirmed by him, so soon as he can say the Creed, the Lord's Prayer, and the Ten Commandments, and is sufficient- ly instructed in the other parts of the Church Cate- chism set forth for that purpose." And then, in the hymns appropriate to Confirmation seasons, the idea is carried out, that those who present themselves will be 6)   130     'ROCKFORD PARISH. in the spring-time of life.* Moreover, in the beautiful service for " the laying on of hands," the original form for the administration of the apostolic rite is in perfect harmony with what has just been said: "Defend, O Lord, this Thy child with Thy Heavenly grace; that he may continue Thine forever," etc. As the Church is carrying on a great missionary work among nations only Christians in name, she adds in brackets, for the bene- fit of those not early trained up in her holy ways, or who have long neglected their privileges, " this Thy servant." It is indeed an occasion of devout thankful- ness, whenever a prodigal is brought back, by Divine grace, to His Heavenly Father's house; yet, who does not acknowledge, that a life of uniform obedience, from youth to old age, is much more to be desired? We rejoice to see the gray-haired sinner coming, with tears of penitence, and with lively faith, -to receive the blessing of the Holy Spirit, in Confirmation; but bet- ter far is the dedication of our earliest days to the ser- vice of God. Can any one read, without emotion, this simple incident in Bishop Heber's life? He was about to hold a Confirmation at Madras; and the chaplain was examining the candidates who proposed to receive the solemn rite. "There was one young woman," the chaplain writes, " who came with her little boy; and thinking him too young, I advised her to keep him back till the Bishop's return to Madras. She had stood a Hymns 91 and 92.   ROCKFORD PARISH.        131 behind the rest while I was speaking to them, and, when I' had finished, came forward with much feeling, and begged that she might herself be admitted. She wept much, and was evidently in declining health; and there was a sincerity and earnestness in her whole manner, - that affected the Bishop most powerfully. "Bring them both to me," he said; " who knows whether they may live to wish for it again ."e While we have been busy with this episode, Julia Howard has returned from her walk, and has been tell- ing her mother what she had learned respecting Betty Hill. - While opening the closet to put away her bonnet, she added, with apparent indifference of manner, that she had accidentally met Mr. Robert Smith. Julia had just sat down to her needle-work, when her father came in, and remarked that the young deacon would take tea with them that evening. Had not his thoughts been occupied with something else, he might 'lave observed the crimson blush which mantled the fair girl's cheek when this announcement was made; but, as it happen- ed, he did not, and nothing more was said. In bringing this chapter to a close, I must go back again to the important subject which has occupied so large a part of it. "Parents who have children of the right age to be confirmed," says one of our most devoted and success- ful clergymen, " ought to encourage them to come for- e Life of Bishop Heber, by his widow, vol. ii., p. 374.   132      ROCKFORD PARISH. ward, if they give the least evidence of piety. A Christian parent who is constantly with his children, will be able to judge more correctly of their religious character than any minister or'other person'; and great deference is due to his judgment. But, let him not judge harshy, nor expect too much from them. Let him not, because he sees all their childish levity, and has his patience and temper tried by their heedlessness, conclude hastily and severely, that they have no true piety. Old Christians have their inconsistencies; and it may be expected that the young will have theirs. If, amid all their levity, they seem to manifest conscien- tiousness, a love of prayer and religious duties, and a disposition to shun evil company, cherish that germ of piety, by leading them to the altar of God, for more grace. If the tiny bud, half hidden by leaves and blossoms, be broken, there will be no fruit on the stem br that year. So, the little beginnings of piety, if iespised, because overlaid with the exuberance of iouth, may be checked for a long season after."  Dr. Lewis, on "Confession of Christ," p. 94. vi   ROCKFORD PARISH.       133 CHAPTER XXIV. THE HPPODROME. HOW THE HGH AND THE LOWLY WERE EXCITED. THE INCONSISTENCIES OF CHRISTIANS. OPEN- ING OF THE NEW CHURCH IN BEDFORDVILLE. WHCH IS THE BISHOP? ALMOST A DISAPPOINTMENT. AN OP- PORTUNITY FOR A LAUGH. "THE CIRCUS! THE CIRCUS!!"Such is the shout heard in the streets of Rockford this morning. A pro- cession "f dingy red wagons, and horses of all sizes and colors, And a company of men and women, not less motley in appearance, is passing along, headed by a brass band playing popular airs. The side-walks are crowded with spectators, large and small, gazing as curiously as Af this had been the first circus that ever made its appearance in the place. Children begin at once to apply for money to go to the Exhibition; and their elders, many of them professing Christians, are deciding in their own minds, that, although a CIRCUS, composed of vagabond men and abandoned women, and the scene of indecent and profane jesting, would be no fit place for religious persons to attend, yet, as this is called a "Hippodrome," a word of more doubtful meaning, they will take advantage of the darkness of night, to see for themselves.   ROCKFORD PARISH. If you could take a stand in the middle of the ring, when the lights are arranged for the performances, and look up at the well-filled seats of the amphitheatre, you would see scores of persons who have spent their last cent for a ticket, and who know not where to look for to-morrow's breakfast. Mr. Howard had numerous applications that day, from ragged men, and slatternly women, and unwashed children, for money, under various pretences; but he had learned from experience, that it was never safe-to furnish them with the means of running into temptation, and he therefore declined giving them any thing except food or clothing, on that day. Notwithstanding all his precautions, many of the poorest members of his flock managed to get to the circus; and when he kindly spoke to them of it, after- wards, and expressed his sorrow on this account, they invariably sheltered themselves behind the example of others in the higher ranks, who, with better opportuni- ties for knowing their duty, had been inconsistent enough to countenance one of the greatest nuisances of our age and country. O! when will Christians be willing, like the blessed'Paul, to deny themselves even in things lawful, rather than cause a weaker brother to offend ? 1 Corinth., viii., 9-13. We repeated, some time ago, that Mr. Patterson had removed to Bedfordville, to devote himself more exclu- sively to the parish there, and to the adjoining stations. We have now the pleasure of announcing another im- portant step,-the completion of the church, and the   ROCKFORD PARISH.       135   payment of the remaining debt upon it, and the ap- pointment of a day for its consecration. On the morning appointed, several of the clergy assembled at the missionary's house, and among them the rector of Rockford parish, and Messrs. Turner and Greenfield; all of them old acquaintances, whom my readers will be glad to see once more. The hour for service was drawing near; and, although the rain was pouring in torrents, persons of both sexes might be seen, with dripping umbrellas and spattered apparel, going towards the church. But, where was the Bishop? He was so uniformly punctual in meeting his appointments, that his friends began to fear lest some accident had happened, when Mr. Patterson came in from the post-office, bringing a letter, which had been unfortunately delayed, for several days, by the irregularity of the mails, and had been sent, in all haste, to inform him that the Bishop was confined to his bed by dangerous illness, and that the consecration of the church must be delayed. What was to be done? The question was anxiously asked; and the clergy concluded, very wisely, that, as the people were waiting at the church, it would be better to celebrate divine service; so that the disap- pointment in not seeing the Bishop might be dimin- ished, as much as the case would allow. Accordingly, they hurried through the rain to the vestry-room, and having robed, and made arrangements for the several parts of the service, they entered the chancel. The   136     ROOCKFORD PARISH. Bishop was a stranger in Rockford, and the people were puzzled to know which of the grave clergymen whom they saw before them could be this high digni- tary of the Church. They all knew Mr. Patterson; and many of them had seen Mr. Howard; so that the puzzle was reduced to the simple question, whether Mr. Greenfield or Mr. Turner could be the person whom they so much desired to behold. As Mr. Greenfield was the older and more dignified of the two, the ma- jority had made up their minds that he must be the Bishop, when, all at once, Mr. Turner (who had reluc- tantly consented to preach, upon so short a notice) took his place in the pulpit. And now, if any one shall find his risible faculties excited by the conclusion of the story, I hope that he -will exonerate the preacher from all blame; for Mr. Turner was one of the meekest and most unassuming of men, and it never entered his head to try to palm himself off for a Bishop. But it came to pass that, in the hurry and confusion, he had agreed to preach a sermon which he had delivered the Sunday before in his own pulpit; and accordingly, in perfect uncon- sciousness of any incongruity between the subject and the present occasion, he rose before an eager congre- gation, who fancied that they were listening to the Bishop of the Diocese, and gave out for his text the 24th verse of the 8th chapter of St. John's Gospel: "If ye believe not that I am HE, ye shall die in your sins."   ROCKFORD PARISH.        137 The clergy had too much respect for the place in which they were assembled, and the sacred purpose which had brought them together, to allow even a smile to play upon their countenances; but, for months and years after, this unfortunate selection of a text called forth many a hearty and involuntary laugh, at the ex- pense of well-meaning Mr. Turner.   138     ROOKFORD PARISH. CHAPTER XXV. CREDULITY OF THE CLERGY.  THE OXFORD GOWN AND CAP AT AN AMERICAN CONVENTION. WANDERING IM- POSTORS. MR. HOWARD'S EXPERIENCE. THE UNPRIN- CIPLED MR. MAY. BOOKS WHCH THE RECTOR DID NOT BUY. WHY ALL DO NOT THNK ATLIKE ABOUT THE CHURCH. WITTAM JAY'S CONFESSION. THE clergy, as a body, are by far too credulous; and their kindness of heart leads them to be imposed upon every day. An illustration of this is still fresh in our memories. A stranger, with an Oxford cap and gown, claiming to be a dignitary from that ancient seat of learning, was welcomed by the Convention of one of our largest dioceses; and Bishop, Priests, and Deacons, and intelligent Laymen, listened with profound attention and respect, while the lying impostor read to them from the pulpit a printed sermon! The truth is, we should be far more particular than we are, in demanding suitable credentials from those who are so constantly travelling about, as clergymen, or candidates for holy orders, or agents for Church in- stitutions. Mr. Howard formed no exception to the general rule which I laid down at the opening of this chapter; and large draughts were occasionally made   ROCKFORD PARISH.        139 upon him, by unprincipled vagabonds. When he found that he had been duped, he generally kept his mortifi- cation to himself; but, on one occasion, his indignation so far prevailed, as to prompt him to advertise the rogue in the public prints. Let us hear his own ac- count of it. "It is not altogether agreeable to acknowledge that one has been successfully imposed upon; but I am convinced -that it is our duty to sacrifice our private feelings, for what may prove the public good. Early in August, I was called upon by a person representing himself to be Mr. James M. May, of Nashville, and cousin of the Rev. Dr. May, of Alexandria.  He claimed to be a communicant, was familiar with the current news in the religious world, and stated, that his object in spending a few hours at Rockford, was to see our beautiful church, of which he had heard so much. Saturday being a busy day, I sent a young man with the keys, to show him the church; and, in the afternoon, he set out from Rockford i* the cars. He was so familiar with persons and localities about Nash- ville, that he must have lived there at some time or another; and I had not the slightest suspicion, that he was not all that he professed to be. On the following Monday, I set off on a journey myself, and, stopping for dinner at a considerable town about thirty miles from Rockford, whom should I meet in the street but my acquaintance Mr. May. We exchanged a few words, and then parted. About an hour after, while   ROCKFORD PARISH. conversing at a store-door with a friend, Mr. May passed the door, and the gentleman with me remarked, that the stranger had communed at the church on Sun- day. This last fact prepared me to credit any reason- able statement which Mr. May might choose to make; and when, upon leaving the store, I met him again, and he informed me, with a doleful face, that he had just lost or been robbed of his money, in passing through a crowd in the court-house yard, and must remain at the hotel, on expenses, until he could send home for more, I did as I would be done by, and lent him the sum he desired! "Upon returning home, after an absence of two weeks, I learned to my astonishment, that Mr. May had been at Rockford again; and, having told his story to one of my parishioners, my good fiiend, with a gen- erosity still greater than my own, loaned him even more than he asked for! " Acting upon the rule of that charity which 'hopeth all things,' I still tried to persuade myself that matters would turn out right in the end; and I forbore to mention to any one that I had seen Mr. May during my journey, or had rendered him assistance, until I could write to him at Nashville, and tell him of the awkward predicament in which he had placed me, and of the unpleasant suspicions which must rest upon his character, should he delay to return the money borrow- ed from my friend, thus obliging me to reveal the whole truth. To this letter no answer was returned,    ROCKFORD PARISH.        141 and having waited some weeks longer, and then writing to the clergyman whom Mr. May has represented as his pastor, I was informed, in due course of the mail, that no such person ever had belonged to his Church. "It only remains for me to describe the impostor, that others may beware of him. He may change his name, and assume different characters ; but his personal appearance cannot easily be altered.  He is about thirty-five years of age, with light complexion and hair; about five feet eight inches high, stoutly built, and rather agreeable in manners. "HORATIO HOWARD, "Rector of Rockford Parish."   It may have seemed a trifling matter to this hardened offender, to be travelling round, living in luxury upon the money thus unrighteously obtained from the unsus- pecting and the benevolent; but even Mr. May, bad as he was, might have had some compunctions of con- science, had he paused to consider what inconvenience and distress he occasioned to others. The loss of the sum carried off by this wolf in sheep's clothing, obliged Mr. Howard to deny himself the purchase of a number of books, from which he had expected to derive much pleasure and profit during the months of winter, when he generally found most time for study. Speaking of books, reminds ile of one which was a great favorite in the family,-Southey's Life of Wesley. The copy in question was disfigured with many absurd  "2      ROCKFORD PARISH. notes, added by a Methodist preacher, to do away with the unpalatable facts stated in the text; but still it pos- sessed charms for every member of the household. Julia had drawn her brother Henry's attention to the book, by relating to him the marvellous account of the haunted house, which it would be so difficult to explain to one's satisfaction, while she herself had read it, time and again, with increasing interest. "I am out of all patience with these-notes, papa," she said one day,- "I believe this man is trying to make persons forget, that. Mr. Wesley was an Episcopal clergyman, to the day of his death." The rector looked up from his book and smiled, and then the fair girl asked, "Why are not all ministers convinced, that ours is the old Church which has been from the beginning?"  "Be- cause, my dear,"' answered her father, " they will not take time to investigate the subject." From the care- ful observation of years, I am convinced that Mr. How- ard is right; and I am more than ever confirmed in the opinion, from finding this acknowledgment in the autobiography of the excellent William Jay, late of Argyle Chapel, Bath. "The truth is, I never deeply studied the theories of ecclesiastical government. I had neither inclination nor leisure; and other things of greater moment always seemed to press upon my im- mediate attention."* Lest any one may accuse Mr. Howard of a harsh Vol. i., p. 187.   ROOCKFORD PARISH.       143 decision, I will add a single sentence from the preface to the ordination service in the Prayer-book: "It is evident unto all men, diligently reading Holy Scriptulre and Ancient authors, that from the Apostles' time there have been these Orders of Ministers in Christ's Church, -Bishops, Priests, and Deacons."'   "4 i    ROCKFORD PARISH. CHAPTER XXVL s UNCLE WILLIS." THE BRASS BUTTONS. AN UNSETTLED QUESTION. A CORRESPONDENCE ON AN IMPORTANT SUBJECT. THE ROCKFORD ADVERTISER. HOW THE PO- "TE EDITOR GOT INTO DIFFICULTY. DR. SLASHGILL S FIERCE ONSLAUGHT, AND PRECIPITATE RETREAT. THERE is one important personage connected with Rockford parish, whom I have neglected to notice in the manner he deserves. I refer to "Uncle Willis," the Sexton. He was a colored man, of about fifty, with the characteristic marks of his race, and, withal, consci- entious and trustworthy. "Uncle Willis" had long been the family servant of old Mrs. Peyton, in whose concerns he took as lively an interest as his mistress herself. When efforts were first made for the establishment of the Church, the faithful negro was honored with the appointment of sexton; although his official duties, at the outset, were very few. In Mr. Mason's day, while service was celebrated in the Court-House, "Uncle Willis" might be seen on Saturday, enveloped in a cloud of dust, doing his best to render the seat of justice somewhat more decent than common, preparatory to its being used for public worship on the morrow. When Sunday came, the old sexton was always in his place, neatly dressed in a blue   ROCKFORD PARISH.        14:5 broadcloth suit, with large brass buttons; an object of admiration and respect, in the eyes of many of his colored brethren. Since the erection of the church, "Uncle Willis," in addition to his other offices, acted as bell-ringer and organ-blower; and, from his long familiarity with the Church service, he was able to join in many of the responses and chants. At the time of which I am speaking, he was very busy in putting the church-yard in good order, prepar- atory to the Bishop's visit, who is expected early this spring. The rector, also, is more than usually occupied, in seeking out candidates for Confirmation. The case of one young man who has been' a Romanist, but who wishes to be received into the Church, has occasioned him some difficulty. The point to be settled is this; whether or not he is to be confirmed, having already received what the Romish Church regards as Confirm- ation. Not being able to answer the question to his own satisfaction, Mr. Howard wrote to the Bishop for his opinion ; and as others must sometimes be placed in similar circumstances, I shall give the correspondence in full. "ROCEFORD, LMarch 15th, 18-. "RT. REV. AND DEAR SIR, "Among those seeking admission into the fold of Christ, at this time, is one who has been a Roman Catholic; and I write to ask for your opinion as to the propriety of his being confirmed again. The practice 7   "6     ROCKFORD PARISH. varies in different dioceses. My own individual opin- ion is, (however little that may be worth,) that a tap on the cheek, with a finger dipped in holy oil, is not 'the laying on of hands ;' and that in fact the Church of Rome has destroyed the Apostolic rite of Confirma- tion, by this change, in the same way that she has im- paired the virtue and efficacy of the Lord's Supper, by a denial of the cup to the laity. Will you be kind enough, at an early day, to give me your views on the subject, and inform me of the time when the Roman Church made this alteration in the mode of administer- ing Confirmation. "Most truly and respectfully yours, "HORATIO HOWARD." After a few days, the following reply was received: April 3d, "MY DEAR MR. HOWARD, "In answer to yours of March 15th, (which, owing to my absence from home, only came to hand yester- day,) in which you inquire what is the true character of the Confirmation administered in the Church of Rome, I have no difficulty in stating, that it is an ordi- nance of their own invention, not Apostolic norprimi- tive, but a wanton departure from the rule of Divine authority. Of course, it is not an allowable substitute for our Confirmation, which is Apostolic; and there- fore Romanists, when they lay down their errors and   ROCKFORD PARISH.        147 are admitted into our communion, should be confirmed rightly. As to the time when Rome established her innovation in the matter, I cannot answer you precise- ly, but presume it to have been about the twelfth or thir- teenth century. Her reason, I doubt not, was to exalt the priesthood, by taking away from the people the laying on of hands, and confining it to the sole pur- pose of Ordination, so that this should be henceforth the peculiar privilege of the sacerdotal function. The name was continued, lest the laity might be alarm- ed; but the change was not regarded as important enough to be opposed, and therefore does not ap- pear (so far as I recollect) in the action of Coun- cils. "Your affectionate friend and Bishop." The faithful sexton had every thing in prime order, before the important day arrived; and the rector had gathered a large class, all of whom, including the young Romanist, were confirmed. A day or so after the Bishop left town, Mr. Ioward accidentally met Mr. Standish, the gentlemanly editor of the Rockford Advertiser. This paper, although nominally a political organ, was for the most part un- der the influence of a religious denomination with which a majority of the proprietors were connected; and the colors of this denomination were too often dis- played in sly hits against other bodies, and in whole- sale endorselnent of their own men and opinions. If a   "8     ROCKFORD PARISH. Bishop of the Church had been arraigned for trial, or a half fledged deacon had departed to Rome, an enlarged account of the transaction was sure to appear in the Rockford Advertiser. Mr. Standish, out of pure politeness, remarked to the rector, that he had heard of the Bishop's recent visit, and congratulated him upon the large addition to his list of members. Mr. Howard made a suitable reply; and then the obliging editor offered to insert a line or two in the paper, respecting the Confirmation, as an item of general interest. So, taking him at his word, the clergyman wrote on the back of a card this simple announcement: "The Bishop of the Diocese adminis- tered the Apostolic rite of Confirmation to twenty-eight persons, in the Episcopal church, in this place, last Wednesday night." This notice appeared under the editorial column the next day; and then Mr. Standish received an early vis- itation from Dr. Slashgill and others, calling him to account for thus speaking of Confirmation, as "the Apostolic rite." In his embarrassment and perplexity, the editor asked Mr. Howard what he should do, when the rector furnished him with quotations from John Calvin, and Martin Luther, and Beza, and John Wes- ley, all bestowing the same name upon this ordinance of the Church. Without mentioning where his anmmu- nition came from,- Mr. Standish showed these proofs to Dr. Slashgill and his friends, and threatened, in self-de- fence, to spread them out upon the pages of the Rock-   ROCKFORD    PARISH.         149 ford Advertiser; but all, with one accord, besought him to let the matter drop.* Ad Those who wish to examine the question as to the propriety of Confirming converts from Romanism, will do well to read a very able article on the subject by Bishop Whittingham, in the fifth volume of the Church Review, p. 53.   150     ROCKFORD PARISH. CHAPTER XXVII. ONLY ROOM IN THE PULPIT FOR ONE. RESERVING AMMUNI- TION TILL IT IS NEEDED. PREPARATION OF SERMONS. FALSE NOTIONS. TURNING THE BARREL. JAY S EXAM- PLE. UNFREQUENT EXCHANGES.  "CHOOSE ANOTIER SUBJECT.95 ILLUSTRATIONS AND ADORNMENTS. DR. BE- DELL. "I was at your church to see the confirming the oth- er night," said an arch-looking old lady, in cap and spectacles, who met Mr. Haoward, soon after, at one of his visitations. "Ah! I am glad to hear it," he answered. "I am sure you must have been pleased with the beautiful ser- vice." "Yes; it was mighty pretty," the old lady contin- ued; " but I was sorry you didn't ask our preacher, Mr. Deepwater, to sit up in the pulpit. It looks so sociable and nice, for all the ministers to sit together in meeting." Mr. Howard could easily have given another reason for this apparent want of courtesy to the Hardshell Baptist Brother, but he contented himself with saying, that his pulpit was so small, that only one could occupy it at once. The reply is worth remembering, as it shows the tact and readiness which will enable a person to steer clear of difficulties, when no possible good can be done by arousing inveterate prejudice.   ROCKFORD PARISH.        151 The old lady was simple-hearted and well-meaning, but she never could have been made to comprehend the distinction between one form of Church organiza- tion and another; and therefore, while the rector, upon a different occasion, would have advocated the claims of the Apostolic ministry, he forebore, under the pres- ent circumstances, from exciting displeasure in one whom it would have been vain to attempt either to convince or persuade. And while holding up Mr. Howard as an example in this respect, I am reminded of some other particulars in which he showed himself wise. One was, his rule of beginning early in the week, to prepare his sermons for- the next Sunday. A clergyman had taken tea one Saturday evening with a parishioner, and after bearing his part in an interesting conversation, on va- rious topics, when the clock struck nine he arose and said, that he must go home and prepare for Sunday. The impression conveyed by the remark was, (though quite unintentional on his part,) that he expected to write his sermons between that time and the hour for service the next day; and, for years after, when any worthy minister was heard groaning over the labor which it cost to prepare his discourses, the answer was ready, that "Dr. De Lingerlong always composed his after nine o'clock on Saturday night." Now, the state of the case was this: The good doc- tor had a large assortment of sermons which had been preached by him in another parish; and having changed   6i2     ROCKFORD PARISH. is residence, and gone among a people to whom they vould be perfectly new, he rested upon his oars till the lose of the week, and then opened his barrel, and aade a selection to suit the occasion. I hope that this ile way of discharging the sacred duties of the minis- ry, is now nearly at an end. A dingy, time-stained aanuscript, imperfectly studied, and, of course, indiffer- Intly delivered, will fall like lead upon the ears of any ongregation in the land. It was only one step beyond his, which was taken by an old-fashioned chaplain in ne of the most prominent posts under our government, rho, being called upon to preach at a funeral, chose he next sermon in order in his repository, which proved o be a discourse upon the building of Solomon's Temple! To preach well, a man must study, and prepare him- elf; and it is very wrong in the clergy, to convey the mpression to their people, by word or deepl, that they an compose their sermons at railroad speed. "I chose ly texts and subjects," says William Jay, " as early a the week as possible. Thus, I not only had. always omething to fill up my spare moments, but, approach- ig what I had selected for discussion, without con- ;raint, and repeatedly, and from different sides and ipects, it opened to my mind, more naturally and asily, and with more enlargement and variety."9 Another excellent rule which Mr. Howard acted * Jay's Autobiography, vol. i., p. 138.   ROCKFORD PARISH.        153 upon, was to exchange very seldom. It is far better for a congregation, to attend upon the ministrations of their own pastor, and not have their curiosity excited by the appearance of a new preacher in the pulpit, every two or three weeks. Clergymen are frail and fallible like other human beings, and in going to a strange parish, there is always the temptation to make a display of their abilities. "To-morrow will be Trinity Sunday, my dear," said the wife of a pulpit orator who was to preach the next day in a neighboring parish; " be sure that you choose a sermon upon some other subject." She feared that an argumentative discourse, such as that important festival would demand, might not prove one of his most -showy productions. I have quoted the wife's caution, exactly as it was given; but I do not feel bound to say what course the husband pursued. There can be no doubt as to the subject upon which he ought to have preached. One other particular which I would mention, in Mr. Howard's practice, was the skill and effect with which he gathered illustrations from every quarter, to bear upon the theme of. his sermons, and add to their fresh- ness and interest. I do not mean that it was original with him; but he certainly carried out this mode of preaching, with wonderful success. The same is recorded of the late Dr. Bedell, of Phil- adelphia. "He would devote himself, sometimes," says his biographer, c, through a whole sermon, to a 70   154     ROCOFORD PARISH. single leading thought, the remembrance and under- standing of which he deemed important, and hold it up to view in a succession of varying aspects, and throw upon it successive light and shade, until he had accom- plished his end of fastening it upon the recollection of those whom he addressed. When he bad thus selected a single spot of ground for his cultivation, he would roam in fields, unthought of, perhaps unknown by his hearers, to gather from these multiplied sources, their various ornaments to enrich and beautify his chosen plat. Every branch of experimental science, and every portion of the history of man, lent its aid in turn, to illustrate the sacred subject which he displayed."* * Dr. Tyng's Biographical Sketch, vol. i., pp. qt, 8.   ROoKFORD PARISH.        155 CHAPTER XXVIII. GETTING UP FROM A SICK BED TO WORK. MDNIGHT SUM- MONS. DARKNESS WHCH MGHT BE BELT.  NELSON ATKW.  BAPTIST PHRASES. sc WHAT STTALT. I DO?" SAFE IN THE ARK. ATTENTIQONS TO STRANGERS. POOR CLERGYMEN AT TAVERNS. I CANNOT do better, in this chapter, than to give a few more leaves from Mr. Howard's journal.  TUESDAY, .May 17th. 'c I have been on the sick list myself, for some days past. Probably, too much exercise in the hot sun is the cause of it. On Sunday morning, I was languid and feverish, and in no trim for work; but, rather than have the flock scattered, I got out of bed half an hour before service-time, and, though scarcely able to totter to the church, I went through with the morning ser- vice, and then dismissed the congregation with a ser- mon. The effort was of no benefit to me, and may keep me down for a few days longer; but I intend never to allow the church to be closed, if it can possi- bly be avoided. "Mayd 24th. "Last night, I was roused from sleep about midnight, by a loud knocking at the door; and, upon inquiring the cause, by putting my head out of the up-stairs win-   56     ROCKFORD PARISH. dow, I was told that a dying man was anxious to see me, as soon as I could come to him. A drenching rain was falling at the time; the distance to be gone was considerable, and the walking bad; and my wife re- minded me, that I had not yet fully recovered from mny late indisposition. But, in such a case, I felt that I ought not to hesitate. I therefore hurried on my clothes, and went with the messenger, who proved to be the brother of the sick man. In half an hour's time, we reached the rude log-cabin, the awkward door of which creaked upon its hinges as we entered. Some members of the family, overcome with fatigue, were asleep on the floor; and a large, surly-looking dog roused up for a moment, on hearing a stranger's step. A single tallow candle seemed to increase rather than diminish the sur- rounding gloom. The mother of the family, with a red handkerchief bound about her head, was preparing something in a stew-pan, at the fire, to relieve the suf- ferings of her dying son. I sat down by his bedside, took his cold, clammy hand, and spoke to him in words of comfort. 1 Nelson Aikin was a poor, ignorant, honest-minded man. This was not my first visit to him, by any means; for his sickness had lasted through ten or twelve weeks, and I was well acquainted with his state of mind. He had grown up with Baptist notions of immersion, and, although he had been desirous, ever since I first called upon him, to be united to the Church, he could not get over that difficulty.' I had often spoken to him   ROCKFORD PARISH.        157 on the subject before; and now, as he lay, almost in sight of the open grave, I reminded him that the virtue of the sacrament of Baptism did not consist in the quan- tity of water used, but in the grace bestowed through the merits of a Crucified Saviour. I said also, that while immersion was a mode of Baptism it was not the only one, and that even according to the light afforded in the Scriptures, in various forms of expression, figura- tive and otherwise, sprinkling and pouring had de- cidedly the weight of authority on their side d "Poor Nelson seemed undecided still. He knew that his end was near. He remembered the importance attached to Baptism, in the word of God.- But, after all, those old phrases, so familiar to Baptist ears, ' going down under the water,' and 'coming up out of the water,' would disturb his enfeebled mind, and make him uncertain as to what he ought to do. His good old mother seemed anxious, but held her peace. The night was wearing away, and I rose to go. ' O! mother, what shall I do?' the sick man exclaimed, with an agonized and bewildered look. 'Do as you wish, Nelson,' she answered, ' I have no doubt you will act right. You have always tried to do so.' 'Well, mother,' he said, 'if you wish me to be baptized, I shall be glad to do it.' 'By all means, then, my poor boy,' the mother replied, in faltering tones. 'I believe that a For an admirable little treatise on this subject, see Odenheimor on Immersion.   158     ROCKFORD PARISH. you are prepared to give yourself to God, and, as the minister told you, a whole ocean of water would do no more good than a tea-cup full; it is the blood of Jesus which makes the baptizing of benefit to the soul.' "Nelson looked relieved; he begged me no longer to delay; and, with the appropriate outward forms ap- pointed by the Church, another repentant sinner was received into the Ark of God. "May, 26th. "Poor Nelson Aikin was buried to-day. He has soon passed 'the waves of this troublesome world,' and, we sincerely trust, has safely reached 'the land of everlast- ing life.' "June 1st. "I wish our people would be more attentive to strangers. Several Episcopalians are now at the hotel, who will perhaps spend the whole summer at Rockford, and yet no one has called upon them except Mrs. Pey- ton and myself. New families come to town, unan- chored anywhere in the religious world, who might easily enough be brought into the Church, if our mem- bers would pay them some attention, inviting them to public worship, and to send their children to Sunday- School. A clergyman cannot do every thing. There must be a division of labor. And then, the rites ot hospitality are so indifferently observed. When I came home a few weeks ago, after a short absence, I was much mortified to find, that good brother Baldwin, who is by no means able to bear the expense, had been   ROCKFORD PARISH.        159 allowed to spend several days at the tavern, at his own charges, when many families in the parish could have entertained the poor clergyman, without the least in- convenience, and would have been blest in their basket and store, for kindness to this devout and laborious man of God."   160     ROCKFORD PARISH. CHAPTER XXTX. BRAZEN HEAVENS AND A PARCHED EARTH.  ARTIFICIAL RAIN. EVIDENCES OF UNBELIEF.  A TEXT WHCH SEEMS TO CONTAIN A PROMSE; WHAT PRAYER CAN ACCOMPLISH. PROFESSOR ESPY. KING AHAR. THE LO DROUGHT. THE CRYING CHLD CARRIED OUT. THE summer promised to be a very dry one, and un- favorable for the crops. The pastures were parched; and the flocks and herds looked in vain for their accus- tomed supply of herbage. Farmers shook their heads, and predicted a season of famine. The wheels of busi- ness and trade stood still. A general panic prevailed. The rich began to curtai their expenses, and indulge less in vain extravagance. The poor were more pinched and distressed than evert No one could think of any mode of relief. Scientifc--men talked, indeed, of pro- ducing rain by artificial \means; but even if such a result could be accomplishEd, no one could furnish the money to defray the immense xpense. In the midst of this scene of anxiety and. distress, Mr. Howard preach- ed from these words, which ah recorded in the 8th chapter of the Ist book of Kinks, the 35th and 36th verses: "When heaven is shut up, and there is no rain, because they have sinned against Thee; if they pray toward this place, and confess Thy name, and turn   ROCKFORD PARISH.        161 from their sin, when Thou afflictest them: then hear Thou in heaven, and forgive the sin of thy servants, X X * and give rain upon Thy land." You may imagine the profound stillness which fol- lowed the announcement of this text. It was plain, that the people were to have a sermon for the times. "Many, who have full faith in prayer," the rector began, in a quiet, subdued tone, " considered as a gene- ral thing, waver and doubt, when supplications are offered for special blessings. It is wrong, however, thus to step within the borders of unbelief. The Almighty has appointed prayer, as the common mode of obtaining His gracious and ready help. It is the golden key, by which the various treasures of His king- dom are opened. 'Heaven and earth,' as Archbishop Leighton says,' and all the elements, obey and minister to the hands which are often lifted up in earnest prayer.' The Scriptures afford no warrant for the opinion, that temporal wants, of whatever kind, do not constitute a proper subject for prayer. Indeed, the very opposite sentiment is there most plainly taught. The book of Homilies, which contains a sound and moderate statement of doctrine, sums up the testimony in these few words: 'When we have sufficiently prayed for things belonging to the soul, then may we, lawfully and with safe conscience, pray also for our bodily necessities, as meat, drink, clothing, health of body, deliverance out of prison, good luck in our daily affairs, etc., according as we shall have need.' P. 296. If any   ,62      ROOKFORD PARISH. one is disposed to regard this language as too broad and unqualified, let him compare it with our blessed Saviour's words: 'Whatsoever ye shall ask in My Name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.' St. John, xiv., 13. And .again: 'All things whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive.' St. Matt., xxi., 22. "Here, my friends, let me drop a caution. It would be wrong for us, in praying to God, to measure our ne- cessities by our desires. Our necessities are few ; our desires may be beyond reason.    The long and dis- tressing drought, which, for months past, has prevailed throughout our borders, affords a fitting occasion to test the faith of Christians in the promises of God; and I am sorry to add, that the result of such a trial is not favorable, as to the reality of their trust. The great want of rain is the daily topic of conversation. Many earnest wishes are expressed, that the refreshing show- ers may fall; and there is much murmuring, that what is so all-important for the welfare of the land, should be withheld. But, alas! few have remembered that we have a FATHER in Heaven, Who hears and answers prayer. " It has become so much a thing of course, to try tc account for every thing by natural causes, that the multitude do not extend their thoughts beyond. Sci- ence claims to lay open all mysteries. Faith in the special Providence of God is nearly out of date. Those who follow such principles to their just conclusions, cease to look through nature up to nature's God. The   ROCKFORD PARISH.         163 language of the Bible, which represents the Almighty as the direct source of every good gift, seems to them an exaggeration. ' HE bringeth forth clouds from the end of the world, and sendeth forth lightnings with the rain, bringing the winds out of his treasures.' Ps. cxxxv., 7. It is not enough that he has 'set his bow in the cloud,' as 'a token of a covenant' between himself and the earth. Gen., ix., 13. It is not enough that he has sol- emnly pledged His Word, that while this system of things remains, ' seed-time and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night, shall not cease.' Gen., viii., 22. It is not enough, that He has graciously promised, that every needful provision for the wants of soul and body shall be given in an- swer to believing prayer. "The infidelity which lurks within the breasts of many who make professions of better things, causes X them still to doubt. If true faith everywhere prevailed, we should not hear persons sneering at the special sup- plications provided in the Prayer-Book for rain, in sea- sons of drought, and on other occasions. If it were really believed, that when showers are needed, God will send them of His own accord, or grant the prayers of His people when they ask for such blessings, there would be no anxiety expressed, that Congress should advance large sums of money to enable scientific men to make experiments for procuring artificial storms.* See Professor Espy's scheme, in congressional documents.   164     ROCKFORD PARISHE It is a sad and startling fact, that should ;the Son of Man' now come to call us to account, He would not find faith on the earth.' " But why should this be so ? Is there not full war- rant for all the assertions which I have made, in regard to the efficiency of prayer ? I shall confine my illustra- tions to the single point presented in the text,--prayer for rain. We read in Old Testament history, that, during the life of the bad king Ahab, the sinfulness of the people reached to such a pitch, that the forbearance of the Almighty was quite worn out, and Elijah was commissioned to say to the rebellious king, 'As the the Lord God of Israel liveth, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but accord- ing to my word.' 1 Kings, xvii., 1. How fearfully this terrible threatening was executed, we learn from the epistle of St. James. ' Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are, and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain; and it rained not upon the earth by the space of three years and six months. And he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit. v. 17-18.2 A little child, that had been restless during the service, now began to cry, and was carried out of church. Mr. Howard never expressed his annoyance upon such occasions, even by a look, having too much sympathy with the poor mother to do so; but he was nevertheless much relieved, when the infant, in its green hood, with pink lining, disappeared through the door.  ROCKFORD PARISH.        165 CHAPTER XXX. THE RECTOR BEGINS AGAIN. ST. JAMES ANSWERS AN OB- JECTION. THE THUNDERING LEGION. BISHOP PAYNE. THE CONVERTED HEATHEN'S PRAYER. TESTIMONY WHCH EVERY ONE MGHT GIVE. THE PROPER PERSONS TO PRAY FOR RAIN. GOD S POWER NEVER LIMTED. APPLICA- TION OF THE SERMON. ITS EFFECT. THE PSALM WHOH WAS SUNG AT THE PARSONAGE THE NEXT MORNING. THE people who had taken off their eyes from the preacher, for a moment, prepared again to listen with attention. "It may be said," continued the rector, " that the case of Elias was a special one, when a miraculous in- terference might reasonably be looked for. St. James, however, seems to have had this specious objection in view; and most fully has he answered it. He goes out of his way, to tell us, that ' Elias was a man subject to like passions' with ourselves, and hence, that we have no cause to be discouraged. A fault-finder might still insist, that these answers to special prayer took place during the period covered by the canon of Holy Scrip- ture, and that, this testimony having been sealed up, we are no longer to look for such things. The pages of ec- clesiastical history furnish well-founded facts, which put to silence all objections of this sort. I shall not   166     ROCKFORD PARISH. stop to tell the story of the 'Thundering legion,' in the army of Marcus Antoninus. It is true, that Gibbon, with the glibness characteristic of his infidel pen, glosses over the whole affair, and tries to explain it away; but I believe, as the writers of the olden time declare, that the followers of Christ in that heroic band did pray for rain, and that God, in answer to their supplications, sent a timely shower, which saved the army fi om perishing by thirst. "But, to come -down to more recent times. Dr. Payne, our devoted Bishop to Western Africa, thus writes home: ' About two weeks ago, there was every prospect of a drought. The rice crop was just at that stage when the want of timely showers would have been fatal. A middle-aged, influential man, in the large na- tive town near us, who, it appeared, had long been im- pressed with the truth of Christianity, resolved, in the extremity, to apply to Him Who, as he had been taught, heareth prayer and is able to save. Coming out of his house, he stood before it; and offered in substance this prayer: 'O God I Thou alone hast all power in heav- en and in earth. Our idols we have trusted in, and have found them vanity. We have greatly sinned in placing these vanities in Thy stead. Have mercy upon us; not for our sakes, but for Jesus Christ Thy Son's sake! And now, that we may know that Thou hast all power, and that I may never doubt again, grant us in our necessity an abundant rain.' The man then passed on through the town, offering up in the most public man-   ROCKFORD PARISH.        167 ner the above prayer. On the evening of that very day, the heavens grew black, the rain descended in co- pious showers, and the rice was saved.' "But why stop to multiply examples? No one has attended upon the services of the Church for a single year, without having been able t ttestify of more than one marked answer to special prayers. Here let me not be misunderstood. Under the circumstances in which the country has for months past been placed, man and beast suffering from protracted drought, it would only be mocking God, for two or three, living in the town, who feel comparatively little incollveni- ence from this cause, to expect that their prayers, coldly offered, would bring down rain upon the thirsty land. But, let those come whose interests are more nearly, concerned; let the farmers and their families present such a petition in God's house; let them, with unfeigned contrition, confess themselves to be sinners, suffering justly under the weight of His displeasure; let them earnestly beseech Him to hearken to their prayers for relief; and so surely as there is a God in Heaven, all-wise, all-powerful, whose compassion faileth not, these supplications would be answered. If weeks of rain were needed,-no matter how improbable,--no matter how contrary to the experience of the wise; no matter what the witling and the scoffer might say; no matter how contrary to the laws of nature, the supply would not be wanting. "The will of the Almighty is the only rule which   168     ROOCKFORD PARISH. governs Him in the exercise of His power. A fruitful land maketh He -barren, for the wickedness of them that dwell therein. Again He maketh the wilderness a standing water, and water-springs of a dry ground. And there He setteth the hungry, that they may build them a city to dwell in; that they may sow their land, and plant vineyards, to yield them fruits of increase." Ps. cvii., 34-38. Mr. Howard had become very animated, as the ser- mon drew towards a conclusion; and, pausing for a moment, as if to prepare the congregation for the ap- plication that was to follow, he added: 1"Each particular embraced in the text is important to be noticed. If suffering the loss of any blessing which is essential to our good, as in the case referred to, we may be sure that it is a divine judgment, and that it has been brought upon us by our disobedience of positive commands, or by our neglect of known duties. We are also taught, that an acknowledgment. of our offences is the first step towards obtaining relief from punishment; that while the prayers of individual Christians are heard with favor, those of a whole con- gregation are much more likely to secure the object desired; and that the most proper place for making such requests, is the temple of the Lord. The subject is now brought into a practical shape, and may be car- lied home for use. The language of the text thus be- comes a ground of hope, and an index to certain relief. 'When Heaven is shut up, and there is no rain, because   IOOCKFORD PARISH.         169 we have sinned against God; if we pray towards this place, and confess His name, and turn from our sin, when He afflicteth us; He will hear in heaven, and forgive the sin of His servants, and give rain upon His land.!" The people who heard this sermon felt the reality of prayer, in a way which they had never done before; and when the special supplication for rain was offered, there went up, as from one heart and one voice, a loud and earnest AMT, which showed that it was not only from the lips. At the afternoon service, the same petition was made again. That very night, the clear, blue vault of heaven grew dark with clouds; and the blessing which God's people had desired, was sent down in rich abundance. "Lord, from Thine unexhausted store, Thy rain relieves the thirsty ground; Makes Lands, that barren were before, With corn and useful fruits abound. "On ris'ng ridges down it pours, And every furrow'd valley fills; Thou mak'st them soft with gentle show'rs, In which a blest increase distils." These verses, from  the 50th Selection of Psalms, were sung at the parsonage, on the morning after the refreshing and grateful rain. 8   170      ROCKFORD PARISH. CHAPTER XXXI. C COMPLIMENTS TO THE LADIES." A STRAY NEWSPAPER. EDGAR FIELDING FING F S FRIENDS. 6(WHY DOES THE MAN LAY DOWN TO READ?"   DIFFICULTIES OF THE POOR. GOING OUT INTO THE HGHWAYS AND HEDGES. :PALLTATING CONSIDERATIONS. POWER - OF LOVE, IN WINNING SOULS TO CHRIST. MR. HOWARD occasionally received a letter from the young deacon, Robert Smith, asking for advice in the management of his parochial affairs; and from the par- ticular messages to " the ladies," with which these epis- tles closed, it appears that Mrs. Howard and her lovely daughter are not yet forgotten. A newspaper was one day brought to Julia from the post-office, containing some interesting communications; and although the law had not been violated by any secret marjs within, she readily conjectured to whom she was indebted for this favor; but I think she kept her suspicions a profound secret. The reader will remember, that in the extract given before from the rector's private journal, he spoke of the Providential way in which he became acquainted with Edgar Fielding, the young carpenter who was now studying theology under his direction. There was a little settlement, consisting of about a   ROCKFORD PARISH.        171 dozen houses, a few miles from Rockford, where Mvr. Howard sent this divinity student, every few weeks, to read service and a sermon, not only for the benefit of the people, but for the advantage which he would him- self derive from this constant practice. When the first visit was made by young Fielding to his missionary station, not a little curiosity was excited by the an- nouncement, that " a lay-readcer" would officiate in the school-house. One person asked, in perfect good faith, "Why does the man lay down to read? Is he a crip- ple, that he can't stand up like other people?" Although Edgar Fielding had enjoyed few early advantages of education, he was so earnest in preparing himself for the great work to which he wished to devote his life, that the progress which he made was astonish- ing. At the commencement of his theological course, he was much interrupted, being obliged to labor all day at his trade so as to meet his ordinary expenses; but, God provided for him, as He does for all those who put their trust in Him. Mr. Augustus Peyton became so interested in young Fielding, after having heard his history and observed his commendable efforts to struggle against poverty, that, in a very delicate manner, he provided for the payment of his board, in a quiet family, until his course of study should be completed. May God put it into tthe hearts of many more to do likewise! There are scores of promising boys and young men, who would gladly set about the work of preparing themselves for   172     ROCKFORD PARISH. the ministry, if liberal benefactors would come forward to aid them. Although the Church at Rockford had been doing as much as any parish in the land, towards carrying the Gospel to the poor and the outcast, the rector felt, that still more ought to be accomplished. He therefore held informal services in the houses of this class of per- sons, often visiting them, and collecting some of their neighbors, when the business of the day was over. The whole exercise consisted of singing a hymn, of reading and expounding a chapter, of prayers, and, occasionally, of catechising the children. The mothers of large families in the humbler walks of life are often kept fromn Church, for months and even years, because they cannot provide suitable cloth- ing for themselves, or because they have no one to leave in charge of the younger children. Such ser- vices as Mr. Howard held for their benefit, were admi- rably adapted to their case, preventing them from losing sight of their higher duties and obligations, and keep- ing alive their attachment to the Church, which, as a tender mother, so considerately provided for their spirit- ual wants. It is too often. taken for granted, that persons stay from Church, because they are careless and indifferent about it. "I have no clothes fit to wear;" and "I don't like to be seen at Church, looking worse than others;" and "The children are so small and trouble- some, that I can't well leave them ;" or "I amn obliged   ROCKFORD PARISH.         173 to work so hard all the week, that, when Sunday comes, I don't feel able to stir out of the house;" these, and other excuses, although they do not remove the obliga- tion which rests upon us all, to worship God in His temple, certainly present very strong palliating consid- erations in behalf of those who urge them. The rector seldom took the trouble to inquire as to the denomination to which these persons were attached, in the unsettled religious world; but it was generally the case, that, by the time he had acted the part of a good pastor towards them, for a year or two, they all considered themselves as forming a part of his flock,- little as they knew about apostolical succession, or the Scriptural authority for formls of prayer. I leave it to the sober judgment of the reader, to de- termine whether, after all that may be said on the other side, this was not doing the work of our blessed Master, in accordance with the pattern which He Himself has left us. While all the discourses in the world, upon what are called " the distinctive features of the Church," would have failed to win one soul to Christ, the labors of a faithful shepherd, more abundant in good works, more fervent in devotion, more kind and attentive to the poor, than ministers of other names, were gradually, but surely, attaching the hearts of the whole commu- nity to the Church, at whose altars he was appointed to serve. Was it a slight evidence of influence and power, when the sick, of every religious profession, smiled   17-4      OCKFORD PABISH. with satisfaction as the good rector entered their abodes ; and sorrowing friends called upon him to bury their dead; and those in joy and prosperity were united in the holy bonds of wedlock with his fatherly blessing? Was it not a sign, that hearts had been touched, and affections won, when white-haired children, with soiled faces and shabby clothes, looked up from their tops and. marbles, as the man of God passed by, and said to each other, with expressive looks, "Mr. Howard christened u. We belong to his Church " Ed      X   ROOKFORD PARISH.        l'(I- CHAPTER XXXII. THE MURDERER   C   ROWDING AROUND TE GAL- "OWS. REVEREND CAPTAIN PN4TrTTPS AS CHAPLAIN. THE WUIRCH CARING FOR THE PRISONER. JOHN O. COLT. CONFIRMATION IN ILLINOIS. DR. GADSBY LEAVES THE CHOIR. A DIFFICULTY MET. PRAISE OUT OF THE MOUTHS OF CHLDREN. QUIET and orderly as the people about Rockford generally were, some offenders were found to trans- gress the laws of God and man, and among these a wretched man, who ad long followed an unprincipled course, was to be hung for murder. His lawyers had taxed their ingenuity to the utmost, to prove that he had been insane when the awful crime was committed; but there was too much method in his madness, to al- low the jury to be thus deceived, and they brought in a verdict of guilty. The passion which the mass of the people have for dreadful sights, is wonderful. On the day of the exe- cution, all the roads leading to the field where the gal- lows was set up, were- crowded with anxious spectators, hurrying forward to witness the appalling spectacle. But I cannot consent to conduct the reader to the spot; and I have only referred to the subject, to introduce something connected with it. When the cart left the   OaCKFORD PARISH. jail-yard, another person, besides the culprit and the sheriff, was seen riding with them, who turned out to be the Reverend Captain Phillips, of whom we have heard so little of late. It seems that, by the murder- er's request, this celebrated divine had consented to act as his spiritual adviser on the occasion; and in addi- tion to a long "season of prayer" in the cell, the captain sang a hymn, and, as the newspapers ex- pressed it, "addressed the throne of grace with great eloquence and power," while they stood under the gal- lows. The prisoner, with the blood of a fellow-being on his soul, exhibited no marks of contrition, but, while shout- ing "Glory I Glory!" during the continuance of the Reverend Captain's exercises, he seemed rather like a well-tried and faithful martyr, reaching forth for his immortal crown, than a miserable culprit, justly con- demned to die on the gallows. The sensibilities of the more intelligent and refined were greatly shocked by this mournful display of fanaticism; and Mr. Howard endeavored, on the next Sunday, without any direct al- lusion to this event, to impress upon his people just ideas of the work of true repentance. It must not be thought, that the Church of Christ is disposed to neglect any class of persons who need her instructions, reproof, or fostering care. The beautiful and touching service for " the visitation of prisoners," shows how mindful she is of her duty. I remember, very   ROCKFORD PARISH.    1"   distinctly, the interest manifested during the celebratiof of Divine Service, on the day appointed for the execu- tion of John C. Colt, when the officiating clergyman desired our prayers for "a malefactor condemned to die," and then proceeded to offer the appropriate sup- plication to be found among the occasional prayers: ( O most gracious and merciful God, we earnestly be- seech Thee to have pity and compassion upon the per- son recommended to our prayers, who now lies under the sentence of the law," etc. No one who then lived in the vicinity of New York, will forget the faithful efforts of Dr. Anthon, rector of St. Mark's church, to be of service to that wretched man; and, indeed, the only way in which I can now recall the season of the year when all this happened, is the deep impression made upon me by the account, which this clergyman published, of his interviews with the prisoner, closing with the collect for Advent, which had just returned with its notes of warning. Unsuc- cessful as these well-directed efforts were, in this in- stance, they remain as evidences of the Church's care for even the worst of men. Who can read, without a thrill of interest, such ac- counts as that of the Confirmation held, by Bishop Whitehouse, in the State's prison within the borders of his extensive diocese? Verily, the Episcopal Church in these days is beginning to do the work which Wes- ley and Whitefield desired so much to see her engaged    ROCKFORD PARISH.  in, while they were her zealous ministers, commissioned of God to administer the ordinances of the Gospel ac- cording to her wise directions. We spoke, in an earlier part of this history, of the sickness and recovery of Dr. Gadsby, who had so long acted as leader of the choir. If all the clergy should compare notes, it would be found, I have no doubt, that nothing else in their parishes ever gave them so much trouble, as the musical department of public worship. After having served the Church most faithfully, Dr. Gadsby resigned his place, because he could seldom spare an hour to practise with the choir; and the removal of several persons from Rockford, about the same time, left the organ-loft almost empty. Mr. Howard never allowed difficulties to paralyze his energies; and now, with his usual determination, he set about making up for this loss. After mature reflection, he collected a choir of boys,-his own son Henry being among the number,-and employed a music-master of some celebrity, to instruct them in the ordinary chants and psalm tunes, and to act as their leader on Sundays. It was a bold experiment, to be sure; but it was one which seemed indispensable. Some of the parents to whom the rector applied, objected to their boys' sitting in the gallery, and some of the youths themselves were backward about it; but Mr. Howard persevered, until the requisite number was made up. And then the teacher had a great task to train the new choir; but, at   I   BOCKFORD PARISH.    179   last, all difficulties were overcome, and I must leave it to those who have enjoyed the privilege of hearing the sweet melody produced by children's voices attuned to their Maker's praise, to judge of the surprise and grati- fication expressed by the congregation, on the first oc- casion when the boys struck up the Venite.  180      ROCKFORD PARISH. CHAPTER XXXTTI. DR. JACOBUS EDWARDS. FLOWERS OF RHETORIC. INTON- ING THE SERVICE. PRETTY PREACHNG. ROBERT HALL. ALWAYS ON THE PAD.  RECORDS IN THE PARISH REG- IS1TEl. HOW MR. LATITUDE MADE ENTRIES. PROBA- BILITIES NOT ENOUGH FOR THE COURT. MORE SPECI- MENS OF ACCURACY. MR. HOWARD was gratified, at long intervals, with a visit from some travelling clerical brother; and, al- though the people would have been quite as well satis- fied to hear a sermon from their own clergyman, it did them no harm to learn, by actual experience, that the preaching to which they were accustomed, every Sun- day, was as good as could be found elsewhere. Among those who thus appeared in the Rockford pulpit, was the Rev. Jacobus Edwards, D. D., rector of a large parish many hundred miles off. It was something of an event, to see a Doctor in Divinity, in a parish so remote,--I mean, of course, one who has received his degree from a college of good standing,- and the people expected a remarkable discourse. If what I am describing had not occurred before such peculiarities had been introduced into our country, I should have said that Dr. Edwards intoned the portion of the service which fell to his share. At any rate, he   BOCKFORD PARISH.        181 read very badly. His sermon was sound in doctrine; but it abounded in grand passages, which had no neces- sary connection with the subject, and which seemed to be introduced rather to beautify and adorn, than to edify and instruct. Robert Hall has described such pulpit efforts, as " pretty preaching." I shall offer no apology for quoting his severe, but truthful words: " If I were upon trial for my life, and my advocate should amuse the jury with his tropes and figures, bury- ing his argument beneath a profusion of the flowers of rhetoric, I would say to him, Tut, man, you care more for your vanity, than for my hanging. Put yourself in my place; speak in view of the gallows; and you will tell your story plainly and earnestly.' I have no objec- tion to a lady's winding a sword with ribbons, and studding it with roses, when she presents it to her hero lover, but, in the day of battle, he will tear away the ornaments, and use the naked edge against the enemy." Dr. Edwards was accustomed to spend so much time in plucking and arranging rhetorical flowers to bedeck his sermons, that he could not understand how Mr. Howard, who was so constantly occupied with his pas- toral duties, managed to prepare himself for the pulpit. "Bless me, my good brother," he said, " you seem to be always on the pad. I should never think of squan- dering my brains out at my heels, by this incessant visiting." I know not what answer Mr. Howard made: but it may have occurred to him, that this might be    182     ROCOKFORD PARISH. the reason why Dr. Edwards's church reported the same number of communicants now, that it had done twenty-five years before. Fewer fine passages in his sermons, and more out-door work, would have produced a different result. In recording his own official acts in the parish regis- ter, the rector had occasionally glanced his eye over the earlier pages upon which his predecessors noted theirs; and their characters might be discovered, to no inconsiderable-degree, from the accuracy and neat- ness, or careless negligence, here displayed. In one instance, he was obliged to examine the book with more attention, in order to settle a point which had been brought up in court, and which involved a considerable fortune. The matter in dispute was, whether a certain infant orphan heir was entitled to a tract of valuable land; and the question could only be determined, by showing thatthis child was of the age corresponding to other circumstances which had been already proved, and the son of a certain Mary Fowler, who had married Mr. Erastus Smith. The guardians of the child applied to Mr. Howard for information, as they had learned that, several years before, while Mr. and M&s. Smith (who were residents of Maryland) had been on a visit to friends in the neighborhood of Rock- ford, the Episcopal clergyman had been called upon to baptize their infant, then dangerously ill. The rector began at the beginning of the parish register, and ex- amined it, page by page, and line by line, till he came   ROCKFORD?ARISH,        18. to this record, in the handwriting of the Rev. Mr. Lati- tude, a name familiar to those who have read " Full Proof of the Ministry :"  " August 16th, baptized the infant of Mr. Smith, of Maryland, very sick." The rector pursued his researches, through the pages of the register, down to his own time ; but this was the only item which seemed to suit the case, and, unfortu- nately, it was most provokingly incomplete. The date corresponded with the time of the aforesaid visit of Mr. and Mrs. Smith to Rockford; but Mr. Latitude's laconic statement gave no clew as to which member of the numerous family of Smiths this was; and it even left it uncertain, as to the sex of the infant, although the agreement of time, and the fact of Mr. Smith's being a Marylander, rendered it probable that this was the child concerning whose birth and parentage so much interest was felt. But the court demanded something stronger and more satisfactory than a probability; and so, from the inexcusable negligence of the clergyman, the child's claim to the property could not be estab- lished. If Mr. Howard had not been grieved and worried by this unfortunate issue of the affair, he must have been forced to smile, while reading other records made by his lazy predecessor, in a manner equally satisfactory with that just quoted. "Dec. 20.-Married Mr. Jones to Miss Black." "Fe'y 2.- Attended funeral of an aged colored woman."  184     ROOEFORD PARAH. "Feb'y 2.-Baptized three adults, on Sunday after- noon." "Feb'y 2.----Buried six soldiers of cholera." 'July 6.-Two, ditto." But I need not transcribe any more. Those who are curious in such matters, can refer to the pages of the register from which I have taken these extracts.    ROCKFORD PARISH.        185 CHAPTER XXXIV. MAGIC LANTERN. THE LITTLE ONES MADE HAPPY. YOUNG COMMUNICANTS. DR. ARNOLD, OF RUGBY SCHOOL. TEST OF OUR LOVE TO CHRIST. A TRAVELLER AT THE MON- ASTERY ON MOUNT SINAI. REFUSAL, AND A WISE RE- PENTANCE. OTHERS BROUGHT TO A BETTER MND. THE children of the Parish Schools and Orphan House were made very happy, by an entertainment which Mr. Augustus Peyton provided for them, by means of a fine magic lantern, with Scriptural pictures. The School-room was used for the exhibition; and Edgar Fielding explained the scenes as they passed, one by one, before the astonished eyes of the happy company. In order that the interest of the lantern might be kept up, Mr. Peyton resolved to exhibit it only occasionally; and the evenings of Christmas, Easter Monday, and Ascension-day, were fixed upon for this purpose. About the same time, the Sunday scholars began to bring in their mites, once a month, towards the purchase of a beautiful font; which, however, did not interfere with their usual contributions for missions. The sooner that the young are taught the duty of denying them- selves, for the sake of doing good, the better for them- selves, and for the world. ?j   186     ROCKFOR D PARISH. I have spoken, in another place, of the care which Mr. Howard took to prepare children who had reached the proper age, for the solemn rite of confirmation. In due time, these young persons were encouraged to come forward to the Lord's Supper. They were affec- tionately invited to partake, upon the ground that it was both a duty and a privilege, and that the Holy Communion was quite as necessary for them as for their elders. It was a beautiful sight, to behold these young persons going up with their parents and friends, to commemorate the dying love of Christ our Saviour, and thus, month by month, renewing their vows of obe- dience. And here I hope that I shall be pardoned for intro- ducing a pleasant picture from a very charming book, the Life of Dr. Thomas Arnold, late Head-master of Rughy school. When describing the efforts which he made, to interest the boys of his charge in the chapel services, his biographer thus refers to his practice in regard to the Holy Communion. "At first, some of the Sixth Form boys alone were in the habit of attend- ing; but he took pains to invite to it boys in all parts of the school, who had any serious thoughts, so that the number, out of two hundred and ninety or three hun- dred boys, was occasionally a hundred, and never less than seventy.  To individual boys he rarely spoke on the subject, from the fear of its becoming a matter of form or favor; but in his sermons he dwelt upon it much, and would afterwards speak with deep emotion   ROCKFORD PARISH.        187 of the pleasure and hope which a larger attendance than usual would give him. It was impossible to hear those exhortations, or to see him administer it, without being struck by the strong and manifold interest which it awakened in him; and at Rughy it was of course more than usually touching to him from his peculiar relation to the school. I X And when, especially to the very young boys, who sometimes partook of the communion, he bent himself down with looks of fatherly tenderness, and glistening eyes and trembling voice, in the administration of the elements, it was felt, perhaps, more distinctly than at any other time, how great was the sympathy which he felt with the earliest advances to good in every individual boy."* It was from the example of this devoted mlan, that Mr. Howard had derived many useful hints for his ministry. In referring to the rector's method of sermonizing, I spoke of his habit of introducing familiar illustrations from every quarter. While preaching on a Communion Sunday, from the beautiful text, "If a man love ME, he will keep MY words," St. John, xiv, 23, he thus appeal- ed to the consciences of those who were accustomed to turn their backs on the Lord's table: "A genial, good- humored, gossiping countryman of ours, whose travels in the east, for ten years past, have been read with un- abated interest, presents us with this scene. He is resting, for a day or two, at the Monastery on Mount ot Life of Dr. Arnold, p. 112.   188      ROCKFORD -PARISH. Sinai. It is Sunday, and the whole brotherhood are at dinner. ' The room in which we ate,' the traveller says,; was perhaps sixty feet long, having at one end a chapel, and altar, and reading-desk. After dinner, the monks all rose, and walked in a body to the foot of the altar. One of my neighbors took me by the hand, and led me with them. There they kneeled, prayed, and chanted. This was merely preparatory to the Sacra- ment. It was the second time I had been placed in the same situation; and a second time, and even more earnestly than before, I waited for that state of heart, which, according to the notions of its solemnity in which I had been brought up, would have permitted me to join in the sacred rite. I refused the consecrated bread; and the monk, after pausing some moments, apparently in astonishment, passed on to the next. After he had completed the circle, the superior crossed and brought him back again to me ; I could not wound the feelings of the good old man, and received the sacrament at his hands.'" "Will any here presume to say, that the kind-heart- ed traveller did wrong? I think not. Nay; I believe that every one present now, would have acted as he did. And yet, consider how inconsistent this would be. Receive the Lord's Supper, in order not to offend a fellow-man, and refuse to receive it, when the Saviour o Stephens's Travels in Egypt, Arabia Petraea, and the Holy Land. I., 233.   ROCKFORD PAEISH.       189 bids you to do it, as an evidence of love to Him! The monks believed, very properly, that every person law- fully baptized, was a Christian, and that every Chris- tian, whether at home or abroad, should be ready to ac- knowledge his MASTER'S authority, by obeying His dy- ing commands. The traveller had entertained the absurd opinion, held by so many in this age, that the Lord's Supper was a great formal feast, to be celebrated three or four times a year, at which the saintly and the perfect alone were invited to attend. Our Saviour would certainly never have appointed an ordinance, which comparatively few conscientious human beings could possibly receive." A number of persons who had been in the habit of going out before Communion, remained that day, and partook of it with their brethren.   190     ROCKFORD PARISH. CHAPTER XXXV. THE YOUNG DEACON'S ATTACHMENT TO HS FRIENDS. SUS PIOIOUS CIRCUMSTANCES. HOW THE DISJOINTED PARTS O0 THE CHRISTIAN WORLD ARE GETTING TOGETHER. DR TYNG. THE WORSHP OF HEAVEN, A WORSHP OF FORMS VALUE OF THE PRAYER-BOOK. UNITARIAN TESTIMONY. THE young deacon, Robert Smith, was very fond o: visiting his kindred at Rockford. It was perfectly natural that he should be; but, so many reports have been in circulation about his partiality for Julia How- ard, that I begin to believe that there must be some truth in them. Besides all the other suspicious circum- stances that might be", mentioned, I know that during this visit at Rockford, the young deacon one day drove up to the parsonage, and gave Mrs. Howard and her daughter an airing in a carriage. He also took tea there upon two occasions, not to speak of several morn- ing or evening visits. It is true, the conversation was mainly carried on by the rector and the deacon; but it was evident, that the young lady was not indifferent to the subjects thus touched upon. ' Is it not remarkable," inquired the young clergy- man, " how fast the different denominations are con- forming to our peculiar customs? They are building gothic churches, and introducing organs, and wearing   ROCKFORD PARISH.        191 gowns, and even using prayer-books, any one of which things would have been enough to throw their fathers into spasms." "It is indeed most remarkable," answered Mr. How- ard, " and I cannot but regard these tokens as evidences of the dawning of that blessed day, when all the peo- ple of God shall be one, according to the spirit of our Saviour's prayer." St. John, xvii., 20-21. "Have you seen any of these new prayer-books, papa," said Julia, " which the Presbyterians and Bap- tists have been publishing of late?" "Yes, my dear," replied the rector, "I have ex- amined several of them. They are not, indeed, com- pilations from the ancient liturgies of the Church, like our own; and in taste and execution they are far infe- rior to it; but, at the same time, they put to rest a long- contested question, as to the propriety of using forms of prayer. The Episcopal Church must at last be respect- ed and loved by all who profess and call themselves Christians, for her faithfulness in preserving the essence of true religion, in the golden casket of the book of Common Prayer." "Have we not strong intimations given us, Sir, in the Bible," remarked Robert Smith, " that the worship of the redeemed, in glory, will be something akin to the liturgic strains to which we have been accustomed, in the Church on earth?" "This has always been my opinion," returned the rector, " and I was very much struck, the other day, with a passage on this subject, in   192      ROCKFORD PARISH. a recent work of Dr. Tyng's. If I can turn to it, I will do myself the pleasure of. reading it to you." Mr. Howard found the place, without difficulty, and read the following splendid passage. "St. Paul de- scribes two earthly churches, by strangely different characteristics. To the one, 1 Cor., xiv., 26, he says, ' How is it, then, brethren? When ye come together, every one of you hath a psalm, hath a doctrine, hath a tongue, hath a revelation, hath an interpretation. God is not the author of confusion, but of peace; as in all the churches of the Saints.' 'Let all things be-done decently, and in order.' "To the other, Colossians, ii., 5, he says, ' Though I be absent in the flesh, yet am I with you in the spirit, joying and beholding your order, and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ.' Now let the characteristics of these two churches be transferred to the heavenly sanctuary. O, how sad would be the fall in the description, had St. John written of the Church above: I heard, and ' every one had a psalm, had a doctrine, had a tongue, had a revelation.' Alas! it is no longer the deep, clear, unbroken harmony of heav- en; but discord and confusion, which have no author- ship of God, transported thither. And which of the two churches was the more evidently becoming ready for the heavenly worship; discordant, confused, unset- tled Corinth, or orderly, steadfast, uniform Colosse? Can we think, then, that a form of prayer and praise prescribed in the public worship of the Church below, is a necessary hindrance to devotion, and to the work of   ROCKFORD PARISH.        193 the Spirit, in a preparation for the Church above; when, in their heavenly worship, they rest not day and night, in the utterance of the same blessed form of words? And if heavenly worship be not mere formal worship, though it be worship in a prescribed form, is it indispensable that a form of prayer in earthly wor- ship shall be always and only the religion of form "* "A splendid passage, in truth!" exclaimed the young deacon, who had scarcely been able to sit quiet in his seat, while Mr. Howard read it, with glowing energy. "I wish that all the opposers of forms of prayer could hear that eloquent testimony in their behalf." "We are hardly aware, ourselves," continued the rector, " how great is our debt of obligation for the Prayer-Book. It teaches us to present our supplications to the Almighty, in the most appropriate language; and it contributes to the preservation of a pure and primitive faith." "I remember a remark which I read in a Unitarian paper," said the young clergyman, "which contains a great deal of truth. The writer observed: ' Everywhere that an Episcopal Church is, be it humble or stately, there is the Prayer-Book. Every member of that Church, go where he may, car- ries it with him. If he have his family travelling with hin in the remotest and most thinly settled portions of our own, or in a foreign land, he can form a Church in "* Christ is all," p. 237-8. 9   194      ROCKFORD PARISH. his room, feeling, that, alone or with them, he is wor- shipping in union of the same thanksgivings, confes- sions, and prayers, with hosts of his fellow-believers everywhere.'" Tea was now announced; and it was the occasion of no little satisfaction, that Mrs. Howard was well enough to be at the table, which, with her, was a very unusual circumstance.   ROCKFORD PARISH.       195 CHAPTER XXXVI., ANOTHER VISITOR. BROTHER CAAWLEY.  A CHRISTMAS WHCH WAS NOT KEPT. CHURCH DOOR LOCKED. CAT- TLE AND HOGS. "THAT IS PARSON CRAWLEY.5 PREACHER AND FARMER BOTH. INFLUENCE OF TEN YEARS. "I BELIEVE HE IS A PRESBYTERIAN D THE LONGEST DAY IN THE YEAR. BEFORE the little party had left the table, Mr. Per- kins, the Junior Warden, rang -the door-bell, and was shown into the parlor, where he was soon joined by the two clergymen. As Mr. Perkins had been absent for some time, travelling about through the border counties of the State, the rector began to inquire as to the prog- ress the Church was making in Hammonsport, which was a kind of outpost, far in the land of the enemy. "I notice, by the Spirit of Missions, that brother Crawley is still the missionary there. Did you see ally thing of him?" said Mr. Howard. "O yes," answered the Junior Warden, laughing, "I spent Christmas-day at Hammonsport, on purpose to attend service; and although I saw Mr. Crawley, I did not hear him preach." "I suppose that business must have detained you from Church," remarked Robert Smith.   196     ROCKFORD PARISH. "By no means," said Mr. Perkins, "for I tarried there for no other purpose." "Why, how did this happen ." inquired the rector, with surprise. "Was not the church open on Christ- mas" ." "I must tell the story from the beginning," answered Mr. Perkins; and this grave preamble led his hearers to expect something unusual. "I reached Hammons- port," resumed Mr. Perkins, "late on Christmas eve; and, after breakfast the next morning, I asked the land- lord if he could tell me where to find the Episcopal church, and whether he thought there would be service that day. He very kindly went out with me to the corner of the street, pointed to a small wooden building about two squares off, and informed me that this was the church, and that he presumed there would be preaching, as he had seen the parson in town the day before. After sauntering around the town until the usual hour for morning prayer had arrived, I repaired to the little church, and found the doors locked, and no signs of service that day. I was not a little disappointed that, after having lost so much time for the sake of showing due respect to Christmas, I should not have the privilege of attending public worship after all; and I went back to the hotel, to wait for dinner. While sit- ting in the office, which fronted on the street, watching the people who passed by, my attention was attracted by a drove of cattle and hogs, followed by two men and a boy. At this moment, the landlord came to the   ROCKFORD PARISH.        197 window and remarked, 'Why, that is parson Craw- ley!' "' What, Sir?' I exclaimed, rousing from  my revery. 'That is parson Crawley, Major,' repeated mine host, for he thought I ought to be at least that far along in the list of military titles,-' that is parson Crawley, driving them critters down to the dock.' "I looked again, and, in the man arrayed in the dress of a farmer, with his pantaloons stuffed into the tops of his boots, taking cattle and hogs to market on Christ- mas-day, I could hardly persuade myself that I saw before me a minister of the Gospel; but so it was. I made no remark; for I was too much mortified at the occurrence, to desire to prolong the conversation with the landlord; and I was not sorry, when the sound of the dinner-bell called him away. "When the meal was over, I called for my horse, and rode on towards the next town, where I proposed to pass the night. A man mounted on a superb charger soon overtook me, and we jogged on together, convers- ing on various subjects, until my attention was attracted by a commodious, handsome house, standing back from the highway, surrounded with out-buildings and an extensive garden. "' Whose beautiful place is that?' I inquired of my companion. 'Parson Crawley's,' he answered. In- deed!' said I,'I thought he lived in Hammonsport.' O no,' remarked my new acquaintance, ' he is preacher   198     ROCKFORD PARISH. and farmer both. And, to tell the truth, he is one of our best farmers.' "'Do you know him personally?' I asked. ' Know him!' said the man, in a tone of surprise, 'I don't know nothing else. He and I have been living on adjoining farms for these two years; and we imported some short-horned Durhams on shares.' Feeling some- what curious to learn what good influence the parson farmer had exerted upon his neighbor, during their familiar acquaintance of so many years, I asked, "Of what denomination is Mr. Crawley?' The man seemed puzzled, and hesitated, and then answered, "Well, really, I can't say positively; but I believe he is a Presbyterian.' " The two clergymen looked at each other, in amaze- ment. Such a deplorable case of ministerial ineffi- ciency they had never heard of before. If every mis- sionary sent forth into the wide and growing field should thus spend his days, leaving even his next-door neighbors in ignorance as to what standard he had engaged to fight under, the dawn of the millennial day would be far distant indeed. The rector was very scrupulous in avoiding all dis- paraging observations concerning his brethren; but the narrative of the Junior Warden seemed to require an observation of some sort, on his part; and, while hesitating how he could express his disapprobation of Mr. Crawley's system of operating, without passing sentence on the man, his nlind was relieved by the en-   ROCKFORD PARISH.        199 trance of his daughter, whose appearance gave an agreeable change to the conversation. They soon began to talk of their own parish affairs, and of the Sunday-School in particular. Mr. Howard was anxious to have the classes so arranged, that the- children should be confined but one hour on Sunday morning. He insisted, very properly, that this, with attendance at church, was quite as long as we should expect the little creatures to be kept housed up, after being occupied the whole week at the day schools. In the course of his remarks, he told the story of a little boy in an English school, who, when the Government Inspector, among other questions on the division of time, asked which was the longest day, re- plied, with a very shrewd and intelligent expression of countenance, "I knows, Sir; it's Sunday!"   200     ROCKFORD PARISH. CHAPTER XXXVII. THE ROW OF BRICK HOUSES. WEEPING AND MOURNING. FRIENDS IN NEED. SISTERS OF CHARITY. DORCAS. HOW MUCH WOMEN DO. THE FUNERAL. G WHO WILL PUT ON HIS SHOES AND STOCKINGS NOW?"THE WORLD WHERE HUNGER AND THRST ARE UNKNOWN. THE parsonage was in a lot adjoining the church; and on the opposite side of the street was a row of small brick houses, affording accommodations for several families. One building in this row, after remaining for some months without a tenant, was occupied again, but, by whom, no one at the rector's knew. Julia Howard had risen from the breakfast-table, and was looking out at the front window, when her atten- tion was attracted by cries and screams proceeding from the newly rented house. Her father heard the sounds at the same time, and sent over a servant to learn the cause of the distress. Sophy soon came back, with the report that a child had died very suddenly during the night, and that the poor mother was nearly distracted. Although Mr. Howard had no acquaintance with the family, he felt that a part of his sacred office was to comfort the mourner, and to bind up the broken-hearted; and he therefore went to the afflicted household, to afford what consolation he could.   ROCKFORD PARISH.         201 He found that Sophy's report was true; and, in the most delicate way, he explained to the distressed pa- rents why he had thus ventured to intrude upon them, at such a time. They seemed very grateful for the attention; and the father, as soon as he could command his feelings sufficiently to converse, told the rector, that their little boy, an infant of eighteen months, had been slightly unwell, for a few days, though not so as to occasion any alarm; but that, during the night, he had a spasm, and had died. The mother hung over the little crib, weeping as if her heart would burst, overpowered by the suddenness of the blow. Mr. Howard, having addressed her in soothing words, called the father to the door, and in- quired what arrangements he proposed to make for the funeral. This inquiry revealed all the desolateness of their condition. They were almost entire strangers in Rockford, and knew not where to apply for assistance, in this season of distress. I do not mean pecuniary assistance, (for the furniture and other things about the house, showed that the occupants were not poor,) but those kindly offices which we all require from others, when sickness and death enter our dwellings. St. Luke makes mention, in the book of Acts, ix., 36, of a devoted woman of Joppa, who " was full of good works and alms-deeds which she did," and whose industrious hands made "coats and garments" for the needy. She was a "Sister of Charity," in fact, bound by no formal vows, it is true, but alive to her 9g   Li      KUu'bJ  J U K UD PAISH. obligation to glorify God by unselfish acts of mer- cy.* The founders of this extensive sisterhood, were the Marys agadsalomes of earlier days. The Church has never wanted for successors worthy of these names. " Who, in all ages," as one has beautifully expressed it, "have been almoners of the sanctuary, doubling every gift, by the tender sympathy with which it was bestow- ed ? Who have been the foster parents of the orphan . Who have been the nurses of the sick ? Who have comn- forted the afflicted, ever weeping with them that weep ? Who have found homes for the stranger? Who have gathered poor children, the wandering lambs of the fold, into the arms of the good Shepherd ? Who are the patient teachers ? Who win the little ones to the Church ? Who are those in our congregations to whom the pastor first applies, when he wants auxiliaries in any work of benevolence ? Who are ever ready, and nev- er tired ? Who, but the members, for the most part, of this world-wide sisterhood of love ?"   a The Protestant world is so extremely jealous of the encroach- ments of Popery, that it may be deemed, by some, inexpedient to use the expression " Sister of Charity," without a word of explanation. I know of no reason why this name, or any practice which is right and proper, should be abandoned by us, because the Roman Catholics have been wise enough to adopt it. It is one of the hopeful signs of the times, that Bishops whose othodoxy and prudence cannot be doubted, are recommending the adoption of some plan, by which the assistance of devout women may be more effece'ually employed for the work of the Gospel.   pROCKFORD PARISI-.       20 Rockford parish was blessed with more than one Dorcas, to whom the rector had gone, under trying circumstances, before; and now he applied to them again, to aid this afflicted household. Nor did he ap- peal in vain. Every thing was done, that kindness could suggest, to relieve the poor mother from the painful impression that she was left alone in her dis- tress; and when, at the time appointed for the funeral, Mr. Howard and his daughter went to the house of mourning, one would have supposed, from the number of persons present, that the bereaved parents were old settlers in the town, and that neighbors and friends who had known them long, had met together to offer their heartfelt sympathy for their loss. The rector rode in the same carriage with the mourn- ers; and, in returning from the grave, the sister of the little boy whose remains had just been committed to the ground, began, with lisping tongue, to inquire of her mother where "brother Frank had gone )" Fresh tears flowed from the parent's eyes, in answer to this question; and Mr. Howard, pointing with his finger towards the sky, said to the child, "Your little brother has gone there, my dear; the angels have carried him home to God."   " And who will put on, his shoes and stockings, now ?." the little girl continued. " Will God dress and feed him ?" Then Mr. Howard told her of that better world, where the souls of holy men and women, and of little children, are at rest with God,   204     ROCKFORD PARISH. where there is no more sickness nor death, and where hunger and thirst are unknown. When the carriage stopped at the door, he took a friendly leave of all, and promised to visit them the next day. I need hardly say, that- here was another family added to the Church. The ministrations of kindness and sympathy are never thrown away.   ROCKFORD   'A rIS H.     205 CHAPTER XXXVIII. VAGUE REPORTS OF WHAT DR. SLASHGILL MEANT TO DO. A BLACK COAT EXCHANGED FOR A GRAY ONE. MR. CALVIN FERRET. ALL RIGHT AND PROPER. NEGLECT OF THE AFTERNOON SERVICE. WARNINGS FROM THE PULPIT. CARLYE'S ACCOUNT OF JOHN STERLING)S CONGREGATION. A CHANGE FOR THE BETTER. DR. SLASHGILL'S congregation had been annoyed, for a long time, by vague reports, that their distinguished pastor proposed to abandon the pulpit for the bar. The elders and the deacons, and the energetic wives and daughters of these well-meaning men, contradicted these rumors most flatly; and- so matters continued for several months more. We have before had occasion to notice what a prom- inent figure Dr. Slashgill was accustomed to make at temperance meetings, and railroad conventions, etc.; and, as if to remind his people that his ministerial of- fice sat very loosely upon him, he often told them in his sermons, that there was no such thing as a regular, per- manent priesthood in the Christian Church, and that a minister had as good a right to change his profession as a physician or a lawyer, if it did not suit him. All this ought to have prepared them for what was to happen; for, one day, sure enough, this devoted champion who   206     . OCKFORD PARBISH. had so often battered away against the adamantine walls of Zion, without success, laid aside his black clothes and appeared in a gray suit. In due course of time, he was admitted to the bar, and at the last ac- counts, he was a candidate for the legislature. Dr. Slashgill's successor was MIr. Calvin Ferret. These men were alike in one particular,-their in- veterate dislike to the Episcopal Church. While Dr. Slashgill, however, had chiefly confined his efforts to broadsides from the pulpit, Mr. Calvin Ferret pursued a more indirect mode of assault. It rather resembled the sapping and mining operations of a besieging party, than the open warfare of a soldier in the field. A few months after Mr. Ferret's settlement at Rockford, the rector was informed, one afternoon, by the teacher of the parish school, that a strange man had been at the school-house, catechising her very closely as to what was taught there, and making particular inquiries whether the Bible was read, and whether the children were instructed in any form of Church doctrine. Mr. Howard was puzzled, to know what all this meant; and he began to conjecture, that some deranged person had been assuming the offico of superintendent of public instruction, when a thought struck him, and he inquired as to the personal appearance of the strange visitant. The description answered so exactly to Mr. Calvin Ferret, that he felt sure he was the person; and the suspicion was afterwards confirmed, when the same man went to the Church Orphan-house, on a similar   ROCKFORD PARISH.        207 errand. If Mr. Howard had done this, the whole town would have been in an uproar, accusing him with being an arrant proselyter; but, in the case of Mr. Ferret, it all was supposed to be perfectly proper. As much as the rector was vexed by this meddle- sonle disposition of the new preacher, he was worried still more by some customs which were gaining ground among his own flock. One of these was the neglect of the afternoon service on Sundays, by many of whom better things might reasonably have been expected. In the infancy of the parish, and before the fashion- able ways of cities had gained ground in Rockford, the attendance at evening prayer was as large as that in the morning. At length, however, some of the families in better circumstances, who were fond of late dinners, began to indulge themselves in a comfortable nap, instead of going to church. The poorer classes, who very soon observe any inconsistencies on the part of their more prosperous neighbors, thought, that as they were obliged to labor hard all the week, they ought to enjoy the privilege of rambling about the country, on Sunday afternoon. They would not have thought of offering such a poor apology for neglecting public wor- ship, had not the rich set them the example. Mr. Howard occasionally preached a sermon on the due observance of the Lord's day, in which he remind- ed the people, that they were as much bound to attend upon the evening as the morning sacrifice, in God's holy temple. There was little change for the better.   208     ROCKFORD PARISH. The good rector was grieved and mortified; and he made one more effort to mend matters, by a plain ser- mon, in the exordium of which he introduced the fol- lowing picture from Carlyle's life of John Sterling. "The English radical, with his strong common sense mixed up with ultra German notions and semi-infidelity, had gone to hear his friend Sterling preach. The place was ' a big church behind Cheapside, built by Wren. There, in my wearied mood, the chief subject of reflec- tion was the almost total vacancy of the place, and how an eloquent soul was preaching to mere lamps and prayer-books; and of the sermon I retain no image. It came up in the way of banter, if he ever urged the duty of Church extension, what a specimen we once had of bright lamps, gilt prayer-books, baize-lined pews, Wren-built architecture; and how, in almost all direc- tions, you might have fired a musket through the church, and hit no Christian life.'" "Our afternoon congregations are not quite so small as this," said Mr. Howard, " but they are slim enough to make it a reproach to those Christians, who, without good cause, can consent to stay away." This discourse brought out several in the afternoon, who before had absented themselves; and a friendly interview, in private, with some of the prominent de- linquents, soon produced a decided change. o Carlyle's Life of Sterling, p. 157-8.   ROCKFORD PARISH. CHAPTER XXXIX. MORE LEAVES FROM THE JOURNAL. LANGUID RESPONSES. OBLIGATION  TO THE ORGAN PIPFS.   BISHOP RAVENS- CROFT.  CLERICAL  CONVOCATION.   CENSORIOUSNESS. DEAF AND DUMB BOY AT CHURCH. HAPPY CHRISTMAS. AN ACCEPTABLE GIFT. PARISH LIBRARY. I EXPLAINED, at the close of the last chapter, one cause of the rector's mortification. A few pages from his private journal will afford us further light on the subject. "October 26th. "The languid responses at church yesterday, made me feel quite sad. Mr. Perkins, our Junior Warden, happened to be away from town; and the people are so accustomed to depend upon him to lead, that no one seemed to have courage enough to read audibly, except my little Henry.*  I must have the children of the In our congregations generally, it must be admitted, there is great dulness, sadly contrasting with the stirring words of the ser- vice. Fervent supplications, intercessions, and thanksgivings, how feebly do they come from the half-opened lips, as if the constant prayer, "O Lord, openThou our lips," werenever heard! lorias and Alleluias, rapturous strains calling for the accompaniment of the lute and harp, the "' loud instrument and the instrument of ten strings;" nay, invoking the orchestra of all creation, bidding the " floods clap their hands,'; " the sea, to make a noise, and all that therein is," in whispered accents from the people, or in pretty notes from the proxies   210      ROCKFORD PARISH. parish school trained more carefully, with reference to this point. They are the hope of the Church, after all. I have felt sometimes like stopping short in the Creed, as Bishop Ravenscroft once did, and asking, ' Am I the only person present, who believes in God the Father Almighty?' "October 30th. "Just returned from a pleasant convocation of the neighboring clergy, held at Bedfordville, where brother Patterson is now reaping the rich harvest for which he so patiently waited. I may be under a mistake, per- haps, but it does seem to me, that the clergy are more censorious in their remarks upon one another, than al- most any other class of men. This conviction was strengthened, by some things which I heard said, on this occasion, in their private chats. But alas! who am  I, that I should be sitting in judgment? To his own master, each one standeth or falleth. "2November 25th. "Nearly a month has passed since the last paragraph was written. At this rate, my blank book will last me a long while. I was very much pleased, yesterday, with the devout behavior of a deaf and dumb boy at church.   His parents are members of another congre- gation, but as he can take no part in their mode of worship, and finds it irksome, they allow him to attend in the warbling choir. The organ, however, is consistent. The con- gregation of pipes do their part. No wonder, that so much money is paid for huge instruments.-REv. WM. A. MUH NBERR, D D.   ROCKFORD    PARISH.        2" our services. The first time he came, he was much delighted ;. and on returning home, he gave his mother a full account, by his own expressive signs, of all that he had seen.   He represented the clergyman coming out of the vestry door, walking with reverent step to the chancel, kneeling in    silent prayer, then rising, opening the Prayer-Book, and beginning the worship of God. What a powerful argument is such a simple incident as this, in favor of our ancient forms!* Christmas. "Once more we have celebrated our Saviour's birth- day, with thanksgiving and the voice of melody. Mr. Augustus Peyton sent me a valuable addition to my library, for a Christmas gift,-an English copy of Jere- my Taylor's Works. * The Church is beginning to adapt herself, in some degree, to the wants of "all sorts and conditions of men." She provides floating chapels for sailors, and churches for the blind, and for the deaf and dumb. We copy the following account of the visitation of Dr. Hora- tio Potter, the Provisional Bishop of New-York, to l"St. Ann's Church" for Deaf Mutes. "The service was performed as usual, by signs. The hearts of many seemed touched with tender emotions, during the impressive silence which prevailed, as they gazed upon gestures which, though unintelligible to themselves, they knew were bearing praises and prayers to Almighty God.  The Bishop delivered a brief yet eloquent discourse, (translated by the rector of the parish,) and con- firmed thirteen deaf mutes. The Bishop then addressed the candi- dates, upon their high privileges and duties as followers of Jesus Christ. The ideas were then conveyed to the deaf mutes, by means of the sign language." Verily, the Divine Head of the Church is again causing the eyes of the blind to see, the ears of the deaf to be unstopped, and the tongue of the dumb to sing.   212     ROCKFORD PARISH. "January 3d. "Appointed, by the Bishop, as one of the Presbyters to conduct the ecclesiastical proceedings which had been instituted against the Rev. W ?  . In accordance with the promptings of that charity which 'hopeth all things,' and 'thinketh no evil,' I still trust in God, that all difficulties mav be amicably settled. ' O pray for the peace of Jerusalem!' "January 5th. "I have begun the year, with the establishment of a Parish Library. The contribution of a dollar a year, entitles a contributor to draw a book every Friday af- ternoon, immediately after divine service. Besides the popular religious publications of the day, I have pur- chased for it a small collection of approved books of travels and biography. Persons of all denominations have subscribed."   ROCKFORD PARISH.       213 CHAPTER XL. THE MOST IMPORTANT PERSONS NOT AT HOME. A LONG HOUR'S CHAT. WALITING A MTTE OUT OF THE WAY. THE VOICE OF MELODY. A DAUGHTER OF ERIN. SPOILING THE EGYTIANS. LEAVING UNFINISHED BUSINESS BE- HND. THE IMPORTANT LEITTE-. PARTING WORDS. "Is Mr. Howard at home?" inquired a familiar voice one April day, as Sophy opened the front door of the parsonage. "Yes, Mr. Smith," answered the cheerful-looking, well-behaved hand-maiden; "please to walk into the study." As the young clergyman hung his hat on the rack, he said, with a studied tone of unconcern, but with a slight tremor in his voice, "Are the ladies in, too, Sophy?" "No, Sir," she replied, " they are spending the after- noon at Mr. Peyton's." A look of disappointment passed over Robert Smith's fine, open countenance; and, at the same time, he seemed relieved, in part, from a painful embarrass- ment. Sophy led the way, he entered the study, and the door was closed. I have no means of knowing upon what subject the two clergymen conversed, during the good long hour which this interview lasted, but I presume that it only   '214     R-OOKFORD PARISH. related to the Church news of the day, and other kindred topics. When Mr. Smith arose to go, the rec- tor followed him to the door, in his dressing-gown, and said, "Robert, you must let us see as much of you as 'you can. You know our meal-hours; and there will always be a plate and knife ready for you." The young deacon thanked Mr. Howard for his hos- pitable invitation, and promised to call again, without ceremony. He must have enjoyed walking, for he went a full mile out of his way, to catch a glimpse of Mr. Pey- ton's house, peeping out from the rich luxuriance of the trees. Some one was playing the piano. As he drew nearer to the gate, a sweet, melodious voice struck up a familiar air. Robert Smith stood entranced. If Mr. Peyton had chanced to appearl, at that nfment, and had invited him to go in, I am sure he woad not have waited for a repetition of the request. It was the voice of Julia Howard that exerted this magnetic influence. But Mr. Peyton did not appear, and the young man was not invited to go ii T So, at a slow pace, he retreated from the charmed spot. As he wended his way back again, to the street which led more directly to the house of the relative with whom he was sojourning for a few days, he encountered a woman in tattered garb, who, in the rich brogue of Green Erin, begged for assistance. The young clergyman listened to her story, and had just bestowed upon her a generous contribution from   ROCKFORD PARISH.        215 his purse, when an old friend overtook him, and in- formed him, that the person who had thus worked so effectually upon his sympathies was no object of charity at all. "Why, she looks as poor as poverty," said Rob- ert Smith, in astonishment; " and she certainly told a very plausible story." "To be sure she did," returned his companion, " that is a part of her trade. She is not rich, but she does not want for any thing. When Dr. Slashgill sold out his old church to the Roman Catho- lics, this object of charity who interested you so much, was the first to contribute twenty-five dollars towards purifying the building, to make it fit for the celebration of high mass." "Is it possible!" exclaimed our young friend. "The Romanists seem to think that any ad- vantage which they can take of Protestants is fair and right." The two gentlemen have been walking on, as this conversation progressed, and they now separate at a corner of the street. I have been somewhat particular, thus far, in record- ing the movements of Mr. Smith during this visit to Rockford; but the rapid diminution in the number of blank pages left to me, is a warning to be more brief. He tarried about town for a week, took tea twice, to my knowledge, at the parsonage; gave Mrs. Howard and her daughter another ride in a carriage; and did several other things equally suspicious. He seemed to have some important matter pressing upon his mind; but, for want of a favorable opportunity, or through diffidence, he left Rockford without having arranged   216     ROCKFORD PARISH. any thing to his satisfaction. He had not been gone a week, when the rector received a letter from the young deacon, which seemed to touch upon some subject of Unusual importance. Mr. Howard had been favored with frequent communications from the same quarter before, without having exhibited any symptoms of un- easiness. He read the epistle twice over; and the tears stood in his eyes, and his hand trembled, as he laid it upon the table. Having somewhat recovered his composure, he went to his wife's room, and finding her alone, gave her the letter, and went out without saying a word. In half an hour's time, Mr. Howard returned. "Well, my dear," he asked, in a cheerful tone, " what answer shall I give to Robert Smith?"The good woman wiped her eyes, and said, "Although I ought to have been prepared for this, long ago, it has at last taken me by surprise. I know not how we could object; but,- O, my precious child, how can I give her up?" When the writer began this third part of his history, he made a secret pledge to himself, that it should not go beyond forty chapters. This point has now been reached; and he has no other course left him, but hon- estly to keep this engagement. Whether another line ever will be added to what has already been given to the public, he is wholly unable to say.      
         
       
   
