
    ----CITATION----
        Smith, Stephe R.. Romance and Humor of the Road .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7829
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Romance and humor of the road 
            
                 ROMANCE AND HUMOR OF THE ROAD: A BOOK FOR RAILWAY MEN AND TRAVELERS. BY  STEPHE R. SMTH. AUTHOR'S EDITION. CHCAGO: HORTON & LEONARD, RAILROAD PRINTERS. 1871.    Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, by STEPHE R. SMTH, in the office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington. HORTON LNARD, Printers, 8 and o Randolph Street, Chicago HORTON & LEONARD, Printers, 1o8 and Ino Randolph Street, Chicago.   TO THE POPULAR AND EFFICIENT ROAD MASTER OF THE CHCAGO, BURLINGTON &- QUINCY ROAD, STATIONED AT GALESBURG, ,   ILLINOIS, THS BOOK IS DEDICATED AS AN EARNEST TRIBUTE OF RESPECT TO' A WARM FRIEND AND COURTEOUS GENTLEMAN.     WAY-BILL. CUSTOM has decided that no book can start safely upon its travels without a' learned introduction. No experienced Engineer will "pull out" without first sounding his bell, nor will a prudent Conductor leave the depot without the final "all aboard." To this limit would the author confine his Preface. Having made up his train, and received his orders, he has only to give the signal, join his passengers, keep a " wild eye," and leave the rest with'Providence. If there should be a defective axle, a flaw in a wheel, or an imperfect box, he must endure the anxiety and suspense, from which the conscientious Conductor is never free, and be ready for the reproach and abuse which is his constant portion. The author presents this little volume to the Railroad public, believing that it will be of interest to employees- in every department of the service. It is not designed as a book of horrors, hair-breadth escapes, or impossible adven- tures'; nor -does it attempt to recount the fearful accidents and disasters which go to swell the record of every railroad'   6           Wcay-Rill. year. Its mission is to entertain, rather than instruct; to represent every-day life among the bone and sinew of the Road, as the author has found it. As the book, in starting upon its travels, takes the C., B.  & Q.,' it may seem a little partial to that excellent Line. But Railway life, like human nature, is very much the same all the world over;, and in giving the incidents and characters of any one prominent road, they will be readily recognized by those for whom the book is especially intended, no matter with what other road they may be identified. .A few of the sketches and rhymes the author has already. given to the public, in newspaper correspondence from different parts of the country, but one never loses his relish for a palatable dish, by having it twice served. A second volume is in contemplation, to be run on a broader gauge, with facilities for double tracks, It makes no particular claim'to literary merit; is issued at the author's own expense, to be followed by something more elaborate and complete, with appropriate illustrations. It was- designed to present if this volume brief sketches of prominent Railroad officials; indeed the publication has been delayed, awaiting promised material. They must lie over now  for the return train, or go down to posterity by some other line. The original circular announced one hundred and twenty pages, with the price at $1.25. It was found impossible to crowd. the material 'into that space, and two hundred and e   -Way-Bill.      ' twenty-four pages are the result. It is hoped that a corre: sponding increase in the price will cause neither surprise or objection. At the same time it has been found necessary to omit much interesting matter which is retained for the second volume. Friends desiring to communicate with the author are informed that his address is Galesburg, Illinois. The author concludes with an acknowledgment of his thanks to prominent representatives of nearly all the leading roads, who manifested their confidence in the writer and his undertaking by forwarding -large orders in advance. GA, jsS. R. S         . GALEsvBUR, ILL., ,Jue  1, 871. \..   CONTENTS. PAGE. 3 DETLICATION, -           -  WAY-BILL, 9-  -                9 ENGItNEER*; GOSSIP, -             32 AT JACK SHORT'S,       '  WAY-CAR GOSSIP,      .. 125 TELEGRAH GOSSIP,  -            47' No ONE TO BLAME, -   -           49 "TTLE CRIPPLEB -  -       -    151 THE SIDE-TRACK,  -  -           194 - YOUR HUMBLE SERVANT'S WIFE,         198 MSCELLANEOUS RAILWAY2 GOSSIP    -    212 COLOSSUS OF ROADS,  -      -     215 DEAD-AND NO NAME,   -  -        17 ADDENDA, se,       183   AT THE ROUND-HOUSE. Engineer's Gossip. Merriman and Stedman--The Engine Ottumwa "-Eleven Skins on the Pilot--"JFifty-one" and her Brine--ow Cutmminr gave Orders--Jakeds Nine-Tenths-flow Jauriet would Get her 17p- Wilson and the lawyer--Courtney and Jake's Grub-Jake and "Princeton Billt - Merriman's Fast Time- $Stedmans .Blavk Cat-An Engineer's Rhyme--Joke on the Engineer-Death of Chilson- Into the Jaws of Death--A Fireman's Rhyme - Jim Brown and the Blectric Brake--Frin'ks Soldering Iron-Klan- ser's Oysters -glosson as a Horse-Tamer-"I Pay Plot) -you Pay Pig 1--Nepotism-E-very-day Heroes- Rhyme of the Road. 9 -]NGINEERS and Firemen are wont to sun I! fi themselves when off duty, at the Turn- 1 [1 E Table or in the Round-House, and it is not ^sf^^^ uncommon to find a score of these brave fellows gathered at a single sitting. A majority are off duty; a few may be waiting to'" go on," but there is always time for a yarn, and always some one to tell it. Sometimes they adjourn to the Round- 2   10  .Romance and Humor of the Road. House; where, if there are no 'tables to set in a roar, the joke at least goes round. Two of the most incorrigible disciples of Mun- chausen the author has met in his travels, are to be found on the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Road. These are the engineers, Stedman and "Doc." Mer- riman.. These men have had many a tilt in the way of spinning yarns, but the boys are as yet unable to decide as to whom the ribbon belongs. "Say, Doc.," asks one, "what was the name of that Locomotive you run on the B. & M. Road, two years ago; I heard that you were on that road awhile." "Why," replies Doc., 1" that was the old ' Ottum- wa,^ 16X24 inch cylinder, 4 foot 6 in. wheel. You may talk about your rides and your fast time, but just let me tell you what happened to me once on that road." The boys wink at each other and get into posi- tion. "Well, I was put onto the' Ottumwa' one day, and as the boys told me-she wasn't very slow, thought I would try her a string or two. My con- ductor came around, and says he- (' This time has got to be made, and you'll have to let her out to do it.' :' So I started. She moved off quite easy, and after we got out of town, I let her out a little. I had been jogging along I thought about on time, when Hilton, my conductor, came over, and- says he   Round-House Gossip.     " "' Old man, you will find by the time you get up the next grade, that you won't have much time left tso oto L   .for the Passenger.' ' So I gave her another notch, and when Igot to the top of the grade, I see, about a mile ahead, a i good-half mile of solid beef I took out my watch :: and saw that I was forty-five minutes late. Says I to myself: Doc., faint heart never won fair lady, and I told my fireman to shove ill some more dia- monds. I gave her a little of what goes through the boiler and opened her feed box. T hen we passed through the beef it was all ready! for the butchers. I cut it up to order. Superintendent said I was top much of a butcher." "Y  ou don't mean to say, Doe., that you went down the grade so fast that you killed the stock?" No, I don't say so, but I know the foreman of the Round-House ordered some of the wipers to drive off that steer that stood by the coal chute. He mistook the 'Ottumwa' for a steer. They took- eleven skins off the Pilot! "I've got to finish this packing now boys, but "When 'Doe.' left the roadI here ," said Stedman "Itook his engine, the old '51.' ThatLocomo- tive could drink m ore and do her work under it than any critter I ever drove. But I never could get her by Jim Aiken's at Mendota, until she had her brine. D oc. had her pretty Well trained. I tried her one day, working her wide open, with-150 l   12 o  Romance and Humor of the Road, pounds of steam, but she stalled at Jim's,. sure. Oouldn't get her by, until we had our Brine., Ask Frank Stone!" i' "Why don't you -fellows 'get a conductor of a military turn?" asked Rowan. "Here's the way Billy Cummins came at me one day, on short time. "' Now pull her open aisy. Dthrop a little sand -on the thrack. 'Give her two more exhausts. Now you have 'em, Bill, trot her along.' "' Now, he knows what an engine is, d'ye moind!' "George Watkins and ' Dutch Jake,'- engineers, were bringing two freight trains towards each other from opposite directions.' They collided at Plano, smashing six cars -a terrible wreck. When Jake saw it w-as impossible to stop, he says to his fire- man :           . "' Jump, boy, fonna nine-tenths in de shop now.'" , When Hazard sued: the company for damages," said a fireman, " engineers from all the roads were summoned- to appear at the trial. -Among others Jauriet, our master mechanic. One of- the lawyers asked the question: ' Can you get an engine up to a car without moving the car. If so, how?' "A number of engineers -answered in different ways, until it came to Jauriet. "'Well, sir, I should just get a couple of pinch- bars and pinch her up.'  "At another time," said Malone, "there was a suit- against the road at Peoria, something about *     Round-House Gossip.    - 13 damages for setting fire to some hay. Our Bilyg Wilsion was/a witness; and what he don't know about a locomotive aint worth: knowing. Well, the lawyer for the farmer wanted to have some particular point about an engine explained. Wilson had gone over it, over and over again, but couldn't get it through him. The lawyer finally confessed that he couldn't understand it. "' Iv am not at all surprised,' rejoined Wilson. Anybody can become a lawyer, but it requires brains and experience to learn a loomotive. " "Dutch Jake" was  following": Courtney one trip, when they both brought up at Wyanet. Jake went up to the telegraph office on some errand, and  Courtney went back to Jake'% cab and ate up all his lunch'. Ja;ke returned and 'caught him in the act of emptying out the crumbs.  "Courtney, I don't gare fonna grub, but y-y-yoost y-y-you g-g-git off din engine!" "Princeton Bill" is the railroad name of a worthy Scotchman who attends the switches at Princeton oad the C. B . & Q. He has been there ever since the road was built. A paralytic attack or something of that sort has affected the hinges of his jaws, and theyworkpoorly. He can get up steam easy enough, but his rods are too tight.' There is a heap of lost motion on the part of the jaws 'before he gets a word out; and when it comes it comes with a jerk. "Dutch Jake," on the other hand, stutters; his tongue always getting in the:way when he talks 'especially when he is excited.   "   Romance and Humor of the Road. Jake first met Bill when the latter was fixing a switch to let his train in. Bill attempted to tell Jake that there were some cars to take on there. The struggle on the part of Bill's jaws was fearful. Jake imagined Bill was mocking him, and, after an "exhaust " or two, got off this: "W-w-what i-i-in hell's m-m-m-mat-ter m-m mit you?" Bill was sure Jake was mocking him, and he went for him. If the boys hadn't interfered there would have been a serious fight. As it was the scene was funny in the extreme. "Doc., how aboat that fast time on the B. & M.?" "Well, the old man came to me, and says he, "Gap., can you make it?' "I can if the wheels 'el stick on, says I." "' Go ahead, then,' says he, ' and I'll get on the way car.' "I looked behind after I let her out, and saw his coat-tails sticking straight out, and he standing on the hind steps. When we reached the down grade the trucks came off the hind end of the way-car, but we never stopped. I made it, and the old man said it was the best time ever made on that road!" - "What kept the hind end of that car up, boy?" asked Stedman. "Well, you see we were going so fast that the wind held her up all the way!" "Just so," rejoined Sted. "That reminds me of our old Black Cat! She had twenty-two lives.   Round-House Gossip.     15 She used to go down in the cellar and lick up all the old woman's cream. I thought I had her killed once or twice, but she managed to come around again."' "Which," enquired Doc., " the old woman?" f' No, you limping fool, the Black Cat! Well, finally I broke her to pieces one day against the cellar wall so she couldn't come together again, and buried her in a manure pile near where some corn and pumpkins were planted. Next spring the corn came up and the pumpkins got ripe. One morning the old woman went down in the cellar for her cream, and there was the Black Cat, licking away as though she hadn't lost a day! There was a little manure sticking to her yet, and out of her body there protruded-"- "There, what?" asked Doc. "' Out of her body hung a pumpkin vine, and a little ways off was a pumpkin. Futher along on that vine was another pumpkin, and then another, and so on, all the way outs to that manure pile!" "Say, Sted. how fur was it to that manure pile?" "Well, I didn't' measure, but I should judge about a mile!" "Doc." got down on his game leg, pulled off his hat, and said with warmnth- "Sted, that's a d-d lie!" Charlie Clark, an old U. P. man, but now on the North Missouri, said they used to have an engineer out that way-(he wouldn't locate him -exactly, now o'   16   ,Romance and Humor of the Road. that the poor fellow's off) that beat them all. If the boys had no objections, he would read them a rhyme, from which they could judge for themselves. MORT THOMPSON. ^/ [AN ENGINEER'S RHYME.] Time against the Pass'nger! No, but what's the odds, Fifteen minutes yet you know, I'll make it by the gods. Throw off the brakes, my Sanders, Fill us a quart, my lout, Isn't old Sixty lovely, She'll jerk it for all that's out. You're mighty right, old pardner, She's never gin out as yeti "Up grade" you say my hearty; Well, what have you got to bet? "Orders"--damn the orders, The fifteen ticks is mine; Fill up her belly, Sanders, And fetch us a drink o' brine. Bully for you, that's lightning, Engineer's steam, you know; Afeerd, get up you scoundrel, Or I'll split you through and through. Here's to you, my old sweetheart, Now take a good long breath; More fire, my lovely Sanders, Why, you look as pale as death.   Round-.House Gossip. ,       17 That's business, eh? my Sanders, Heat how she counts the rails; "Five minutes," well, we'll make it, Old Sixty never fails. Here, take your brine, you coward, How far to the crossing now? All right we'll take the chances, For a fun'ral or a row. What! only one more minute, Well, I've got another notch; You say you heard 'em whistle- More fire, you onery botch- There now, old Sixty's got it, Got the throttle, sleek and clean; Yer-shove us that ere bottle, What's the use in bein' mean? *    *   *    *    * We picked him up, some dozen rods, From where the two trains struck, Some twenty killed, I think, and me, Well, that you see was luck. I got his place, as was the rule, When Mort. went on the shelf, A splendid Engineer he was, But couldn't gauge himself. "I used to run a Locomotive," said Bristol   "on a road branching out from   the C. H. & D. at Ham- ilton, Ohio, and running into Indiana. John Lin- coln was Superintendent, but I've forgotten what   18   Romance and Humor of the Road. they called that line. Podunk was on that road, a town in Posey county, not unknown to fame. Stopping there one night, I noticed two green-look- ing countrymen inspecting the locomotive and giving vent to expressions of astonishment. Finally one of them looked up to me and said: "'Stranger, are this a locomotive?' "Yes, didn't you ever see one before?" ', ' Haven't never seen one afore. - Me'n Tom come down to the station to-night, puppuss to see one. This is the feller ain't it?' "(ertainly." "' What yer call that yer in?' "We call this the cab, and that's the driving wheel." "' That black thing yonder's the chimney, 'spose?' "Yes, that's the chimney." "' Be you the engineer what runs the merchine?  "I am the engineer!" "' Tom,' said the fellow to his mate,--after eyeing ,me closely for a few minutes-' It don't take much of a man to be an engineer, do it?' "-That joke was on me." "The saddest thing that has occurred on the C. B. & Q. for many a day," said Jones, " was the death of Chilson, an engineer over fifty years of age. It was October 14, '69, during the Fulton County Fair, and extra trains were the order of the day. Our train was the regular passenger, running from Gales- burg to Rushville, with orders to meet the extra   -Round House Gossip.      19 passenger at Canton; then to run to Bryant for N6. *; 20--Kimbal's freight. We side-tracked at Canton and while there the telegraph operator received orders to hold passenger for No. 20. He started out with the order, and seeing the passenger coming, thought it was Kimbal's freight. He returned, failing to deliver the order--for if it was. the freight, the order was useless. But it was the passenger, and the operator did not discover his mistake, until the passenger came up to the platform, and had pulled out again. He ran after the train with the order, but, of course, it was a useless chase. We -hd orders to run to Bryant and 'hurry up,' and the freight had orders to 'hurry up' to Canton. Both trains were running at full speed!  They-met on the short curve in the timber, about three miles below Canton. "They saw nothing of each other, until separated by only fifteen  rods. Chilson called for brakes, and Brooks, his fireman, jumped off!  He reversed his engine, and with one foot against the boiler- head, and both hands firmly grasping the throttle, he braced himself for his fate, and stood there until they. struck! "Down brakes!"One splendid, hard-held breath, And lo! an unknown name, Strode into sovereignty from death, Trailing a path of fame. "tc ic  ye   20   Romance and Humor of the Road. Home - but his foot grew granite fast; Wife -yet he did not reel; Babe- ah, they tugged! but to the last He stood there true as steel. "When we picked-him up, life was' not extinct. His face was mashed, and his body fearfully scalded, presenting a horrid spectacle. We carried him to a hotel in Canton, just across from the depot there, and laid him on a cot in the office. The landlord complained of being full, and that it would injure his trade to have this man here. He had friends in Canton, rich and well-to-do, but they refused to take him in.  Finally, we bore the sufferer to an old vacant house, where he died in great agony in four or five hours. His conductor, bag- gageman and brakesmen were with him to the last. His last words were, 'Has the old man no friend in Canton who will give him a bed to die on?' "Both engines were smashed up, and two or three ladies were slightly bruised, but I believe the Comnpany thought poor Chilson was the great- est loss. The telegraph operator went crazy, and Mr. Hitchcock assisted his family out of his own private purse. "No, he refused to jump, he had often been heard to say that it was an engineer's duty to stand by his engine-under all circumstances." "I think," said Phil. Potter feelingly, " that we have as brave men, men as much devoted to duty,   Round-House Gossip.        21 all about us, as those who have been celebrated in prose and verse. Here are some verses appropriate to the death of Chilson."' INTO THE JAWS OF DEATH. The wind blows cold, the stars shine bright. The ice-bound river glistens, Where flying onward, into night, The life-train madlyv hastens. On, on,'past hamlet, town and wood,  * That fringe the frozen river, As some infuriate demon would Glide, roaming on forever. On into night, with fiery eye, Its sinuous body dashes, With iron muscles, pulse of steam, It plunges, screams and crashes. Yet a great soul inspires the hands That guide its onward motion, As starting from Atlantic lands, It seeks the Western ocean. And steady stands the engineer, True to his fearful duty; And glancing back among the cars, Where ride babes, age and beauty. He feels that loving human hearts, Are-in his watch and keeping; And though he guides to joy or death, They trust him by their sleeping.   22    Romance and Humor of the Road. Then firmer grasps the iron bar; His noble heart thrills faster- Great God! is that the signal light That tells of near disaster? Then on the air the whistle shrieks Like some lost soul despairing, And onward to its death-doom flies, Past earthly aid and caring. The Spartan hands reverse the valve - *"Put on the patents Nick! We'll do the best we can to save Our passengers; be quick!" The crisis comes, "Say, will you jump?" A glance, but no replying; Then fixed his eyes where duty called, Though his path led to dying. A crash! a flame leaps into air, And laps the sundered timbers, And wailing voices echoed there, Where souls died with the embers. And babes and youth, and kindly age, And manhood's stronger glory, Returned to him who seals the page Of each such frightful story. And he who clasped the guiding bars To death, unswerved from duty, Shall wear in Heaven the crown of stars -That waits heroic beauty.   Round-House Gossip.        23 For Christ, who died that men might live,. And dying claimed our loving, To man who dies for men, will give His welcome and approving. Hank Fales, of the Hudson River road, said he lost a favorite engineer in a frightful accident, and his death was singularly affecting.    His fireman wrote a rhyme about it; they were great friends: THE DYING     ENGINEER. [A FIREMAN'S RHYME.] Bill, I'm on the down-grade now, And can't reach ary brake, Guess old '( Fleetwing's" time is up, Leastwise, its up with Jake. Jake Vaughn --yes, write it down in full, She'll know what to infer- - You see I calle'd "Fleetwing." my wife, Before I married her. Torpedos - never mind - no use, Nor Sand-I'm running wild; Say Bill, just scratch another word, One for our little child! "Pull her over "-no, what use, On our side of the hill; Just hold her level for a spell, What! you ain't crying-- Bill?   24    Romance and Humor of the Road. "Broke"--you're right. It seems to me, She's lost a rod, or beam; No fire, no water-say, my boy, Bow can you get your steam? Headlight's all agog, besides; And swimming in the wind-  Say, Bill, afore you write that out, What's comin' on behind? Them bridges, no the Hudson Road, Ain't much on bridges, eh 1 There'll be an awful smash-up boy, Right here, some other day. An' tell her "Fleetwing " ain't to blame, Only she come it strong; Down grade you see, yes --name in full, Your'n truly, Jacob Vaughn., Bill--I'm on the down-grade now, There's no way now to stop; The order's come for Fleet. and me, To hurry to the shop. "Lay off a trip," you'r right, my boy, A long trip with the dead, Just tell her Bill, Jake ain't afeard Of anything ahead. Jim Brown, engineer of " 75,"  stutters, but he always finds words enough with which to abuse Olmstead's Patent Brake.  He swears at it every trip and calls it unpolished names. Jim thinks a -good deal of his engine, so Sam. McCullough   Round-House Gossip.      25 thought he would touch him in his soft place, and  stop his abuse of the brake. "What's the use in swearing at the new brake," said Sam. "Hi-i-its a s-s-s son o-of --," broke out Jim. "Why," said Sam, " talk about its pressing your wheels and making it pull hard,' 75' burns two tons of coal a week less than any other engine on thne road." "I-i-is t-t-t-that so," replied Jim, " proud of his engine. W-w-well, t-t-the b-b-brake's s-s-all right!'; Frink, the engineer who runs the construction train at Kewanee, sent in for a soldering iron, to use about his engine. It came promptly, and he told the operator, agent and his neighbors if they wanted any little job of tinkering done, he would be glad to do it. He soon had quite a number of jobs, but as soon as he put- the iron in the fire it melted away. The Aurora folks had sent him an imitation affair. Rather than be joked, he turned over his jobs to a regular tinker, and paid for the work; but his soft soldering didn't prevent the joke firom leaking out. Klanser, engineer of '" 142,'f made a bet during the siege of Paris, with "b Snowhall," in the shops at GalesbUirg. The bet was as to the time in which the besieged city would probably fall, and the wager was oysters-two cans. Klanser won the bet, and claimed it. "Snow- ball" purchased the oysters, and, emptying the 3   26   Romance and Humor of the Road. cans, filled them with saurkraut of the most villain- ous sort. Klanser took the oysters home, and in- vited a number of his German friends to an oyster dinner, iu order to celebrate the last triumph of the Prussian arms. They came, took seats at the table, and K. opened one can for the purpose of begin- ning the feast with a dish of raw. He poured out , the contents, and though the smell was familiar, it  was not the odor of oysters. Thinking there was a mistake, he opened the other can, and found that he had cabbaged the wrong man. The dinner, however, went off well enough-into the back yard. Klanser has since sent the following receipt to an agricultural paper: "To PR-ESERVE SAUB KRAUT.-Eat all you can." Courtney says Slosson, the Dining Car cotiduc- tor, used to keep the Aurora House, where he had a number of horses and colts. One day a horse tamer came along, and proposed to give Slosson lessons in the new art. The price was: Ten dol- lars for the first lesson; fifteen for the second, and thirty for the third, which would make even a wild man an accomplished tamer. Slosson went in and took two lessons, with great success. He then invited Courtney, Evans and, others to witness a specimen of his skill, to note the progress he had made in the wonderful science. Courtney says he never saw horses and colts so wild in his life. Nothing at all could be done with them, and they   Round-Bouse Gossip'      27 seemed to regard the new tamer as a wild man,  sure enough. Slosson came very near being killed, and if he had ever taken that third lesson, he would be in his grave to-day. Crotter says,- Every engineer knows that it is a rule to pay for every Pilot-he breaks."  Well "Ditto," an engineer, sold two pigs to Jauriet master mechanic of the C. B. & Q., but had never received his pay. Two years after that, Ditto went into Chicago with a broken pilot, and the old man hinted at the pay. Ditto (who is French), replied-- "Me pay pilot ven you pay pig!" "I want to put in a  word," said Phil., about allowing the Young Men's Chrisfian Association to run Western Railways. That creature Armes agent at Monmouth, who is President of the Asso- ciation in that place, causes more sin and swearing, that any dozen devils in--well, in the country." "Very true," rejoined Curly, , but as long as we have ignoramuses in important positions, we will have nepotism, you know!" "There are little incidents occurring -on the road," said Charlie Cossom, , as well worth the telling as the latest history of adultery and murder. A   little girl wandered on the track of the Delaware railroad, as a freight train of nineteen cars was approaching. As it turned the sharp -top of the grade, opposite St. George's, the engineer saw the child for the first time, blew. down brakes,' and reversed his engine. But it was too late to slacken   28   Romance and Humor of the Road. its speed in time, and the poor baby got up, and, laughing, ran' to meet it. 'I told the conductor,' says the engineer, ; if he could jump off the engine, and, running ahead, pick the child up before the engine reached her, he might save her life, though it would risk his own, which he did. The engine was within one foot of the child when he secured it, and they were both saved. I would not run the the same risk of saving a child again, by way of experiment, for all Newcastle county, for nine out of ten might not escape. He took the child to the lane, and she walked to the house, and a little girl was coming after it when he left." The honest engineer, having finished his day's run, sits down the next morning and writes the homely letter to the father of the child, "4 in order that it may be more carefully watched in future," and thanking God, "that- himself and the baby's mother slept tranquilly last night, and were spared the life-long pangs of remorse." It does not occur to him to even mention the conductor's name, who, he seems to' think, did no uncommon thing in risking his own life, unseen and unnoticed, on the solitary road, for a child whom he would never probably see again. The moral of the story to him was, apparently, that mothers should keep their children apparently, that motjhers off the track. Some one has put the incident very cleverly in rhyme:   Round-House Gossip.        29 A RHYME OF THE ROAD. [BY A RETIRED ENGINEER.] Now my running days are over, The engineer needs rest; My hand is growing shaky, There's a queer pain in my breast; But here  near the old turn-table, I'll tell a tale of the road, That'll ring in my head forever, Till it rests beneath the sod: Lumbering on in the twilight, The night was dropping her shade, And the "Gladiator " labored, Climbing the top of the grade. The train was heavily laden, So I let my engine rest; Making the grading slowly, Till we reached the upland's crest. I held my watch to the lamplight- Ten minutes behind the time! Lost in the slackened motion Of the up-grade's heavy climb; But I knew the miles of the prairie That stretched a level track, So I touched the gauge of the boiler, And pulled the lever back. Over the rails a-gleaming, Thirty an hour or so, The engine leaped like a demon, Breathing a fiery glow; t   30    Romance and .Humor of the Road. But to me-a-hold of the lever- It seemed a child alway, Ready to mind me ever, And my lightest touch obey. I was proud, you know, of my engine, Holding it steady that night, And my eye on the track before us, Ablaze with the drummond light, We neared a well known cabin, Where a child of three or four, As the up-train passed oft called me, A playing around the door. My hand was firm on the throttle As we swept around the curve, When something afar in tee shadow Struck fire through every nerve. I sounded the brakes, and crashing The lever down in dismay; Great God! within eighty paces Ahead, was the child at play. One instant-one moment, and only The world flew around in my brain, I smote my hand on my forehead To keep back the terrible pain. The train I thought flying forever, With mad irresistible roll; The cries of the dying-the night-wind Swept into my shuddering soul. Then I stood on the front of the engine, How I got there I never could tell, *            .    Round-House Gossip.       81 My feet planted down on the cross-bar, Where the cow-catcher slopes to the rail. One hand firmly locked on the coupler, And one held out in the night, While my eye gauged the distance, and measured The speed of our slackening flight. My mind-thank God!-it was steady, I saw the curls of her hair, And the face that, turning in. wonder, Was lit by the deadly glare. I know little more-but I heard if-- The groan of the anguished wheels, And remember thinking-the engine In agony trembles and reels. One rod! To the day of my dying I shall think the old engine reared back, And as it recoiled, with a shudder, I swept my hand over the track. Then darkness fell over my eyelids, But I heard the surge of the'train, And the poor old engine creaking, As racked by a deadly pain. They found us, they said, on the gravel, My fingers clutched in her hair; And she in my bosom struggling To nestle securely there. We are not much given to crying, We men who run on the road, But I wept o'er the little darling, And sent up a prayer to God.  ,   AT JACK SHORT'S. Conductor's Gossip. Conductors on their own Time--This Seat is Engagedr-How Sadd Punched a Tlcket-How a Christian Citizen Renewed his Pass- Bab's ITwins-Kingsbeiry-s Gymnasium--Dulley and the Hoop- Poios --"Littlejohn's Killed " - Bive us our Change "- Kings- berry's Bridal Train--Bradley's Girl-Twenty Minutes for Confession-A- Weary Bridge--Eckert and the Superintendent- Get a Pass-or Pay your Way -- Rding for ife--Hughes and tle Noon Prayer- Meeting- Standing up for Jesus-G Good Deal for a Meal-- ow a Corpse uwent to a Dance - The Missouri Milky Way-Inc-lident on a Sleeping Car-DZru'rys Half-Fares -The "Star"Conductor-Scene in the Bergen Tunnel-- aitth- ful to Jane"P-The Road to 2Mennydoty - -oe Bunt in a Bridal Chamber-Encle Ben--H. evans' Strategy--" retss O One Dollar Note-A Couniterfeit Five--Wager's Baggageman-George Burt anld Long-H-owland Aiding the lleathen-- Fatty's "Dreain-- State-Boom Heard from-Hawley' s Croca-Makingf it an object --The Commercial Traveler-Making a Bult of it. HE author makes bold to affirm that there is a "JcTk Short's" on' every respectable American  Railway.  A  pleasant, quiet Z si place, you know, like McCutcheon's, in Galesburg, where there is light wine and ale on   Conductor's Gossip.     33 draught in the front room, and a constant draught' of fresh ';ir in the rear apartment. Pipes, tobacco, cigars; an easy chair, and a place- for your feet, a warm fire in winter; hot water --heavier wine - aye! and oysters, stewed and fried. An institution as necessary to a road; as important a part of the running-gear as the turn-table, round-house, or 'switch. For here, conductors side-track when off duty, and run into a cosy little round-house of their own. Here time-tables are ignored; special and general orders powerless. The edicts of the Train Dispatcher cannot enter here; and invitations from Superintendents to "come" or. "go" are of no avail. The conductor is king, and this is his pal- ace. Woe to the little "Sargents" or corporals who attempt to invade the charmed border. He is run- ning on his own time, with plenty of margin; no wild trains on the track; nothing to follow or to flag. His engineer, fireman and brakesmen sur- round him ; bound together by railroad ties, stronger than wood, and firmer than steel. It is his little court; where manhood, experience and faithful service command homage, and right gallantly do ttiese brave hearts yield to each that which is his due. If "Jack Short's " is at Aurora, on the a., B. & Q., there are numerous branches. At Chicago, Galesburg, Amboy and Centralia, on the Illinois Central; Jim Turner's, on the Erie; at Mills', on the Hudson River; at Jewett's Office or the St. 'a   34   Romance and Humor of the Road. Nicholas, Kansas City; in Charlie Lee's room at Quincy;--wherever there is a railroad there is a "Jack-Short's "--where conductors meet to gossip and joke, and mayhap live over the horrors of hair- breadth escapes. There are men of education and ability among them, and sometimes these yarns are given in very clever verse. There is a conductor now running on the Erie Road who has been a reg- ular contributor to a prominent Eastern magazine for years; and there is another now on the C., B. & Q. who has written some very able articles for the Chicago press. So, we join the conductors of various roads sit "Jack Short's," to-night; and getting a good seat, will ride with them as far as they go. "Beer for the boys, Jack,-somes matches, and we'll commence our yarns." "That seat is engaged," said a pretty young maid, As I entered a carriage one day; "To whom?" "A young gentleman," pouting, she said, "Then where is his baggage, I pray?" Her ruby lips opened like rosebuds in spring, Her face in deep blushes was dyed, As muttering crossly, "You hateful old thing! Why, I am his baggage," she cried. "That was on my train," said Howland," coming out of Burlington, but I never supposed it would be told in that way."   Conductor's Gossip.     35 "I was going to tell you," said George Boynton; "about the fellow that couldn't come it over Ed. Sadd. We had a very energetic Waterman named Spielman, who got in the very bad habit of doub- ling on his pass. .The boys on the Main Line Pas- senger resolved to stop it, by punching the pass every time it was shown. The consequence was, Spielman had to make application for a new one. The boys, not at all discouraged, soon punched -up pass No. 2. When S. got his third pass, he procured a piece of sole leather, same size as pass and about quarter of an inch thick. On this he pasted his pass, and Mr. S. was ahead. "It so happened that he got on Ed. Sadd's train. Our conductor, intent on ruining Spielman's pass, asked, as usual, to see it. The weighty article was brought forth, and the conductor's countenance dropped. The Waterman saw his discomfiture, and said, with a smile, ' (I think I have stopped that punching business, Mr. Sadd--there's been a conspiracy against me, you see.' "'Yes, I see,' replied Sadd, scratching his head. ' Please raise that window a moment, Mr. Spielman, and I'll punch your pass!' "Mr. Spielman raised the window-the train being in full motion-and Sadd, drawing a small pocket pistol, put a hole through the centre of the pass.   36   Romance and Humor of the Road. "' How's that for a punch? ' said Sadd, as he went on down- the car. "The boys called it a Sadd affair!" Geo. Alexander:-"I suppose you all know that Galesburg, Ill., is a temperance town; that nobody drinks there. Seventeen churches to every saloon, and not enough saloons to go round. Have to get a subscription from a physician before you can get a drink. Well, we conductors keep our own secrets, of course, but if -nobody drinks in Galesburg, I know a few, a choice few, church members, who sometimes go all the way to Chicago for a good square drink. "Not long ago a-well-known citizen of Galesburg, somewhat noted for his crusades against saloons, and devotion to 'our church,' hunted me up in Chicago, and wanted to know if I was going to take the train to Galesburg that night? Told him I was, and noticed he had been bumming it a little. Said ' he had come in with some of the boys, and staying longer than he intended, his pass had run out and his money too, and his friends had gone .off and left him.' "Very bad predicament, indeed," I said, " for a respectable temperance man of Galesburg, but I don't see what I can do for you; the rules are very strict."  "He replied that if he was acquainted with Mr. Harris, he would return his old pass and ask for a new one. t   Cornductor's Gossip.     37 "I told him that-was the best thing he could do, but what entitled him to a pass, no one ever knew. He said he would return in fifteen minutes, and if I would introduce him to Mr. Harris, he would pay me well for it when he got home. I answered that I was not much acquainted with Mr. Harris, but I would take him to the office and introduce him without pay. ,' He returned after a time, with two more drinks ahead, and Iaccompanied him to Mr. Harris' office, introduced him, and he presented his pass, asking  politely for a new one. "Mr. Harris seemed much perplexed in his exam- ination of that'pass. Finally he returned it, remark- ing with a peculiar smile- "' Sir, there is some mistake. This seems to be a prescription from Dr. --, asking Mr. A. S. Deven- dorf, druggist, of Galesburg, to give bearer one quart of--wht I suppose stands for whisky, You have given me the wrong paper!'  "I left this Christian citizen of Galesburg search- ing his pockets nervously for his pass, but I never learned how he got home." Scott :.-"In trvyin to tell you about Bab's Twins, it will be necessary/to kind o' whisper it privately among ourselves, for Bab is now running on the Michigan Central, and  he's very sensitive about those twins. "He took his train out one morning, leaving his   38   Romance and Humor of the Road. wife in a very interesting situation. According to the almanac, in two days, Bab would have a half- fare passenger of his own! "Singular as it may appear, Sawyer, who lived in the same block, expected a similar catastrophe in his own family, and sure enough, before he got forty miles away with his freight train that'morn-  ..... ing, the poor fellow was a father. It was not a very good year for babies, you see, and the boys had arranged to lay off only one trip. That same after- ' noon a little bab-by came to Bab; and there they were both away, not to return till midnight. "I ain't much of a hand at a yarn-, for I ought to told you that Bab and Sawyer married sisters, girls as fond of a joke as their clever husbands. So they made it up between 'em as to which should have twins, and the blessing fell on Bab.- The old women who were -around tending to the camphor and one thing another, entered heartily into the A,    joke, and soon Sawyer's infant was in position. Bah came in on time, and was met at the street-door by an old lady and the, joyful (?) tidings. "'Twins!' he yelled. 'What! my wife carry double? ' "I have heard that parents rejoice upon the arrival of a new youngster, and I supposed when they come two at a time, the rejoicing would increase in proportion. Not so with Bab; he was silent and gloomy all next day. He was off duty of course,   Conductor's Gossip.     39 but the news of Bab's twins spread far- and wide. At last he went up stairs, and, says he- "' Mag., where did that off young one, git that red hair?' "The wife made no answer, but the camphor woman said, 'such things were not uncommon; all come out any way.' ".' Mag., Sawyer's got a red head.' "' Do you mean to insinuate'--began his wife, pretending to cry. "' N-no-not that, but it's devilish queer--one. black head, one red head'-and he hurriedly left ' the room, and made for Sawyer's. Sawyer had been in long enough to get an idea of what was going on. They met on the street. "' Sam, began Bab, my wife's got twins! ' "'Eh! Twins. Bab give us your hand.' "' No, not yet. Sam--one of them twins, the off 'un 's got a red head. What have you got to say to that '  "' Red head! good sign, boy, good sign!' "'Sign o' what! Did you have anything to do with it?' "Guess I had!' "' Sam, we're relatives; but say that again and I'll put a bullet through you.? "'Two can play at that game. Come, be quiet and let's go and see. I'll bet a new hat that's my boy!' "' Sam--'   40   Romance and Humor of the Road. Sam was too stout for him; and dragging him into the house the whole thing was explained. Bab. first cried, then laughed, and, finally, turning to his brother-in-law, said:         . "'All right, Sam, claim your baggage!" "Pigeon " desires " that mention should be made of the chief of the Sanny-tary department of C. B. & Q. Railway, Galesburg, Ill., the young athlete employed for the present near the Superintendent's office at that place. If it is asked how he attained to that splendid physical and mental development; that grace of motion and dignity of carriage, I point to the gymnasium in the upper rooms of the Freight House; I refer to Mr. Cothren and his clerks. "He started that Gymnasium on the Maine plan. Organized a Stock Company of one, and elected himself Superintendent, Assistant-Superintendent, Train Dispatcher and Treasurer. For once his vanity was appeased; but the dumb-bells began to talk, and the ladders refused to pray. The wooden horse got its back up; the parallel bars split, and refused to pull together; the ropes got slack, and the trapeze went with the balance. The clerks below said that beer was the trouble, because something of that nature leaked through the ceiling one day; but that was a false rumor., It was only a mutiny ( a prophetic sign of--the times'! The wooden horse vgot mad at the Train Dispatcher because he was ",disposed to ride a free horse to death. The ladders ,mplainled because the Assistant Superintendent \   Conductor's Gossip.   I  41 thrust extra rounds into their ribs in order to get more work out of them. The parallel bars pro- tested, because, when the wooden horse got off the track one, day, they switched off 'without orders' to save their lives and the property of the outfit, and were- abused for it- the Treasurer keeping back their pay. The trapeze grunted on account of an insulting note received from the Superintendent charging it with swinging during a strong wind 'without orders.' The/ Main Line of rope was out of humor because it had been rebuked for allowing its east end to rot on a rusty spike, rendering it liable to break at any time." "Pigeon, you ought to go to stump-speaking," said Powell." "The Superintendent of the Gymnasium," re- sumed Pigeon, "the   Assistant Superintendent, Train Dispatcher and Treasurer became alarmed at this state of things, and resolved to teach their tools that they owned them body and soul. That free- dom of conscience, judgment, or liberty of speech should not interfere with the most thorough disci- pline. So the trapeze was ' suspended' thirty days, the rope for two weeks, while the horse and parallel bars were discharged, without a pass or recommen- dation. The stock company now performs its -gym- nastics nearer headquarters, to the wonder and amusement of vast crowds." "Here is that joke on our brother Dudley," said Hi. Evans. 4   42   i Romance and Humnor of the Road. Dudley brought the hoop-poles, And came on schedule time; But Dudley missed the profits, By hitting some one's sign. And when H. H. rebuked him He sought to pay the fine. Oh, shall we have such agents, Who joke away their souls; Who hang their reputations, On a lot of slippery poles? Is it fair to send conductors Into manufactured holes? Pity Dudley, he was blameless, Never raised a pole before; Was born in Hoop-Pole Township, But never kept a store. It was Sloan who did the business, Now let Sloan do it no more. "You remember Littlejohn, don't you, boys??" asked Neal Ruggles. "Yes, he's running now on the Central Califor- nia, Bob. Matteson's road." "Littlejohn was coming down the grade pretty fast one trip, with his sweetheart aboard, when the engine ran into a lot of solid beef, throwing her off the track, temporarily, but doing no other damage. Fragments of one of the steers came through the window, door, or some opening, and lodged in sweetheart's lap.   Conductor's Gossip.     4S "' Oh, Littlejohn's killed!' she screamed, jump- ' ing frantically to her feet, and surveying the bloody reminders. 'Oh, Littlejohn's killed- he's killed!' and she refused to be comforted, until Littlejohn made his appearance, and took her in charge. "On another occasion, a brace of pretty girls got on Littlejohn's train at Abingdon, thinking to steal a ride .to Galesburg. They got in the ladies' car, and concealed themselves in the little ante-room. with which such cars are always provided. He. passed through once, and missed them. Returning, a faithful brakesman gave him the wink, and he opened the little door on the astonished and blush. ing young ladies. "'Tickets, ladies,' called out L., not in the least disturbed. "They had no tickets, so each handed him a dollar note, and he stepped out into the car. "' But the fare is only eighty cents,' said one, catching his arm, ' and we want our change.' "'Ladies,' replied Littlejohn, with the air of a king, ' this is neither the time nor place for making change,' and he left the birds in their cage." "Talking of nerve, coolness, daring, and disin- terested courage, as being prominent characteristics of railway conductors, I instance," said Blakesly, "M. Sanford Kingsberry, of Galesburg, Ill., and his famous trip to Knoxville, on the Peoria Branch, in charge of a special train. It was- on the occasion of the marriage of the manager of the new stock-   "   Romance and Humor of the Road. yards; and the ceremony was to take place at Knoxville, a distance of five miles. It was impos- sible for the happy couple to walk that distance, and of course vulgar buggies and carriages were out of the question. "This marriage train consisted of an engine, one sleeping car, and of course the usual number of trucks. The passengers were the bride, bridegroom, and two small children. Mr. Kingsberry put on a conductor's badge, cried ' All aboard!' and the vast train moved gracefully off, apparently impressed with the dignity of its mission. There was a strong wind prevailing at the time, but the conductor's nerve never forsook him. In passing the shops one of Panghurn's pumps burst, but the conductor never squirmed. At Craig's a cow having missed her calf, made for the platform on which the con- ductor stood. Firm and unmoved, he simply waved his hand, and the special train sped on. After leaving Craig's-he went through his train as in duty bound, to see if any- stragglers had climbed aboard, but all was safe, and he received the con- gratulations of the wedding party. The wind had now subsided; and in eight minutes more he landed his precious freight in safety at the Knoxville. plat- form. There was great rejoicing over this triumph of pluck and skill, and the feather it brought to the youthful conductor's cap is-now exhibited on all state occasions." "If there is no one to sing a song, I'll read you   Conductor's Gossip.       45 this rhyme," said  Frank Hlughs, of the Quincy. run. "Good-who is it from? '" "Well, the incident occurred in 1869. It is told by a well known conductor now running on the I1. Central." This promised something extra, and the boys filled their pipes again. BRADLEY'S     GIRL. [A CONDUCTOR'S RHYME.] On the Central Road, in '69- Time midnight-snowing hard, The plow ahead, in six feet drift, Four hours behind-by Card. The rails all water-thick with ice, And a high old Prairie air; Our wood and coal fast giving out- Ah! that was a time to swear. At least sixty miles from Augustine- The point to meet my mate- Change engines and obtain supplies, Then leave him to his fate. And there to meet the young girl's friends- But would they bear in mind That wind and snow were in our front, And we-four hours behind. The berths on Pullman's car were full Before we left the Lake;   "   Romance and Humor of the Road.. And half-a-dozen Throughs stood up, All swearing to keep awake., And every coach had twice its load, As much as we could pull; You see the Christmas times were on, And trains were running full. The cold increased, of course, when wood And coal were getting low; My people shivered, and I knew The worst was coming now. I felt concerned about the girl, Though I saw she still slept on; I did my best-but then, you know, The odds were ten to one. Maybe you know old Bradley, boys, Who runs oh the Central Branch; As true a man as swings a lamp- Well-this was his daughter-Blanche. A fair young thing, in feeble health, From a "Water-Cure" somewhere, Now coming home at Christmas time, And riding in my care. I got his message, and the girl, Where we met Jule Coleman's train; Just time enough, to lift her in, No leisure to explain. A way-man kindly gave his seat, The best that we could do,; She thanked us, went to sleep, and then The snow plow's whistle blew.   Conductor's Gossip.       47 That was the way it was, you see, We got four hours behind; Snowed in-some fifty miles, at least, From help of any kind. Maybe the story is old to you, But you never heard the end- - That's kept a secret with us three- Old Brad-.-his wife, and-friend. Eight-twent was the time, I think, Yes, Brad. and her friends were there; Young girls in black-a white-plumed hearse, And a preacher with a prayer. God! what a Christmas Gift was that!- All for the best, 'fwas said- The Christmas bells are ringing now,- Maybe-some young girl's dead! "Come, Crance, can't you give us something?" "Don't think of a thing boys, I swear, unless it's that single-barrelled joke Frank Wood got off!" "Well, give us that!" '"A number of Galesburg ladies and gentleman went out on a special train, to warm up Lou. Clay's house. On the way back, the train stopped for something or other, near the   Catholic Church. Frank Wood opened the door of the coach and called out- "O' Catholic Church. Twenty minutes for confession!' "Which was received with roars of laughter," "Another single barrelled shot, Jewett, of Kansas   48   Romance and Humor of the Road. City, gotoff. He says a bridge on the Kansas Pacific got tired, and laid down with a train on it! Major Martin, conductor on the Cincinnati, Ham- ilton & Dayton (O.) Road, has a good one on Billy Eckert, of the same run: "Eckert was a telegraph operator in the Burnett House, at Cincinnati, and was very popular with railroad men, many of whom stopped at that elegant establishment. Different influences were brought to bear, and Billy finally got a' passenger train on the C. H. & D. without going through the usual apprenticeship. Ira A. Wood was General Super- intendent, I think,though Eckert never had seen him. John Lincoln, who ' learned' Billy the road, told him the company was a new one, and very jealous of its rules. Nothing would advance him so rapidly in official favor, as a strict adherence to, and enforcement of, all rules. "Billy felt a little proud-of his conductor's silver badge, and when he stepped on his first train at the Cincinnati depot, he felt that he owned considerable stock in the C. H. & D. -As he approached Glen- dale, he ran into his first obstruction. This was a corpulent individual, seated modestly in the rear end of a car, who was without a pass or a ticket., Eckert told him the rules were very strict, allowing the conductor no margin whatever. "How long have have you been on the road? Have you a card, sir?' "Yes. Billy had a fresh bunch of cards just a   Conductor's Gossip.    49 printed. Gave the fat man one; adding that this was his first trip. 'Ah! I thought as much. Well, sir, my name - is Wood; I am the General Superintendent of this road. Sometimes carry a pass, but left it to-day, in another coat at my office in Cincinnati.' - "' Sorry, indeed, sir. But there are so manv with the best of excuses, who are put off. The company assures me that every one entitled to a pass, will have one with them, and that excuses will not bal- ance my account. I do not know you, sir, and have no right to know you, without your pass.' "' Young man, you are right. I am only going to Hamilton, twenty miles. The agent there is- my brother* When we get in, we'll go together and see him. Here is my fare.' , "Eckert took the fare with a trembling hand, with a vague idea that he had gained a victory, though what sort of a one, was yet uncertain. "Now everybody in Hamilton, Ohio, -knew old ' Yankee Wood,' a regular Connecticut, wooden nutmegger; six feet five in his stockings, weighing 300 pounlds; with a nasal twang that could be heard for miles. This was the agent, and Eckert had ':learned' him about as soon as any other big point on the road. "When they got to Hamilton, 'Yankee' was on the platform, talking to old man Earhart, the ticket agent. Billy's passenger stuck to him, and as soon as he got out' Yankee' and Earhard rushed up to    50   Romance and Humor of the Road. him, with friendly greeting. Another moment and Billy was formally introduced to the General Super- intendent. "From that time forward, Eckert rose rapidly in the estimation of that company, and was gradually promoted to a high position. Lincoln, for like fidelity to rules and regulations, was appointed Superintendent of the branch line, running from Hamilton,through Oxford to Crawfordsville. Croat, and Pettybone, formerly conductors on the same road, are now at the head of prominent railways. "This was at a time when railroad men looked upon Superintendents as a species of deity to be worshiped and feared, and Eckert's adventure was then considered remarkable in its way. "Wiers said he got Martin to send the yarn in, in order to show the boys that it was the safest policy in the long run, to obey the rules. This is what my ' Peanuts' thinks about it." A PEANUTS' RHYME. I've been a Peanuts now, for several years, I'm running here with-may be you know him--Wiers. I keeps my eyes wide open, and sometimes- Picks up an idea, with my little dimes. I ain't no learning, so to speak; you see, The old man got killed in 1863. And mother she was poor, and I was strong, And qo I've been a Peanuts, right along.   Conductor's Gossip.       51 I've seen how things are run, on these 'ere roads; I've seen good fellows carry heavy loads; There's Coleman-passed his only brother in, And got discharged, for helping his own kin. And there was Hawley, he was sent adrift, For giving a old lady a free lift- A conductor's mother and a friend o' his- You see perliteness, ain't the pa'yin' biz! AndBso to all employees I would say, Hog up a pass, or. else you pay your way. The pompany's got to hev some sort, o' rules, If you don't obey 'em, you're the darndest fools. Whole families sometimes come to want and woe By conductors failin' to spit out a "No." On this ere road you dasn't pass your mother, And if it doesn't suit, why, try another. At the next gathering--occurring perhaps a thou- sand miles away-Barton began: "I was running on the Cincinnati & Indianapolis road,-oh!   some  time ago, when I came across a queer customer. This was a tall, awkward Hoosier, who got on   at Lawrenceburg with a  heavy valise. I  had not been on the road very long, and Hoosiers were still a novelty, so I watched my passenger with more than  usual interest. He   took his valise to a double seat, and sitting down in one, emptied the valise in the other. There was enough of yel- low covered novels in that seat to have started an   52   Romance and Humor of the Road. Indiana bookstore. He found room somewhere for his feet, and taking up .one of the books, was fixed for the trip. When I afterwards called for tickets, he showed me a life-pass from the General Supt., written in the form of a letter, and of course I thought my passenger was a man of some conse- quence. All Railroad Superintendents try to write illegible hands; they regard such an accomplish- ment as an evidence of genius, but the General Supt. of that Indiana road beat them all. "When I came out of Indianapolis on the return trip, my Hoosier was in the train, in a double seat, books and all. So it was for ten or a dozen trips; he was the first to mount the train, and the last man to leave it. Finally I accosted him one day with: "Stranger, which way?" ' Any way,' he replied, without taking his eyes off the book. 'Any way, darn the odds.' "I mean which way are you travelling, ain't you in the wrong train?" '("Indianapolis Road, isn't it?' "Yes," I answered. "' Wal, that's my road, drive on!' "Being a constant customer, I got acquainted with him at last, and this was his explanation: "' You see, this darned road runs through the old man's farm, down there near Lawrenceburg. When the fellers was buildin on it, the old man he fit 'em. He sued 'em, and the gineral super. sent him a family pass for life, and I'm a ridin' on, it out!'   Conductor's Gossip.      53 "I couldn't get it through me at all, and when we got to Cincinnati, I persuaded him to accompany me to headquarters, where I assured him the ' gin- eral super.' would do the fair thing, -An expert there translated his life-pass, which read as follows: ", Office Gen'l Supt. Cin. & Ind. R. R. "'May -, 18 - "' J. VAN BUSKIRK, "' Lawrenceburg. "' Don't disturb the men, as you value your life; let them pass through. Come or send one of your family to this' office, and the matter will be satisfactorily arranged. "' Conductors will recognize this as a pass. ( ('   Gen'l. Supt.' "As nobody could read but a word here and there of this scrawl, the fellow would have been riding to this day, if I had not brought about that translation." Jule. Coleman, of the Hannibal & St. Joe R. R., was running- passenger on the C. B. & Q., when noon prayer meetings were inaugurated in Gales- burg, Ill. "Frank 'Hughs, the only Christian conductor we had on the road at that time, was deputized by the Young Men's Christian Association to drum up recruits. The' Assistant Superintendent was a mem- ber of the popular church, and of course every little clerk within sound of his voice, was a profec- sional Christian. It was supposed that the railroad influence would be strongly in favor of Noon   54'   Romance and Humor of the Road. Prayer Meetings; that every employee would forego at least one good square meal, in order to partake of the bread of life. J. L. Short, a Main Street Insurance man,was President of the Association, and the meetings were to take place over the First National Bank. "Frank was provided with advertisements, and began to distribute- theam in the offices,- shops, and among the boys. On one side of the small adver- tising cards were the words: STAND UP FOR JESUS OVER THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK.  On the other side: J. L   SHORT,. INS URA NCE A GEN T, GALESBURG, ILL. "Panghurndidn't think he wanted to insure in that compagy. One miserable skeptic, whose name shall not disgrace these pages, wanted to know if Short or Jesus was running the thing. Another, thought the hour from twelve to one was the em- ployee's hour; and if the company wanted its men u  * ,   Conductor's Gossip.     55 to spend an hour in prayer, let them give one of their own. This was the true Christian spirit. Sargent, who belonged to the church once a week for years, was invited out to dinner,-he couldn't possibly attend. H. H. was busy remodelling his Order in regard to "Billiards,"' and couldn't spare the time. Kingsberry-- a cold water Christian -had to water his horse. Billy Wilson went to put on a clean shirt, but didn't get back. "Tom Coote suggested that he was not a citizen, and his vote would amount to nothing any way.' Clark said he would send up some crackers and cheese, but could not leave the office. Hawley had to go out and attend to his yard, while Bassler went to black his boots. Tubbs said 'No. 2' was down, and he couldn't leave until he got ' Chicago.' Hopkins said 100 passengers had tele- graphed for dinner--better bring the prayer meet- ing down there. Howland's corns were troubling him again; and Ruggles was stricken with rheu- matic pains, the moment Hughs put a card in his hands. Over in the freight house clerks lyere never so busy. It was estimated that fifty persons lost their dinners that day, and Hughs retired in dis- gust. The ' Noon Prayer Meeting' was a failure; and from that moment sickness and disease entered offices and shops, and sent many to bed. Things have not gone on smoothly at that depot from that day to this."  Charlie Fox, of the Erie R. R., said that "Jim x   56   Romance and Hlumor of the Road. Turner's was the first 'Hlash Shop' out of New York on that road. A passenger stopped there one day and put away twenty minutes' worth of refresh- ments. Calling for his bill Jim struck him for a dollar. "'Little high, ain't you, Mr. Turner?' asked the innocent passenger. "Sir, no, sir. I never drink." "' 5No, but ain't a dollar a good deal for a meal?' "Not where a man' eats a good deal and takes a dessert besides." 'All right, sir,' and the passenger answered the 'All aboard.' "When we got in my passenger asked me to show him to the telegraph office. He told the operator he wanted to telegraph Mr. Turner in regard to meals for -himself and friends, and wrote an unusully long message. The operator said Mr. Turner would 'be glad to pay the 'expense at the other end. So the message went through, and must have cost Jim four dollars and a half!- Good deal for a meal!"          .'    W  [Fenton: "I am only a common express messenger, but I reckon I've a right to put a word in here, to be checked off with the rest." "Certainly, only its about time now for some more of that slop.] Yes, ten mugs." "I was running on the Baltimore & Ohio Road the year before the rebellion, into Parkersburg, West Virginia, every night. I stopped at the *   Conductor's Gossip.     57 'United States' Hotel, kept by a Mr. Tefft, who had a pretty daughter. I was kind o' sweet on the girl, and would have brought the package through all right if it hadn't been for the old man. lie didn't like a man who worked for a living. One night there was to be a big dance at the ' United States,' and I didn't get a bid. It was the town talk for weeks, and was to be a big affair. The crack band of Harper's Ferry was to furnish the music, and the road and country were scoured for table luxuries. At Harper's Ferry the agent put two heavy packages on my run; one, a corpse, going to Parkersburg for burial, and the other, a big fiddle - double-bass, or whatever they call it- going to the' same place. It was marked I care of the U. S. Hotel,' and had been forgotten, probably, by the band. Both freights were boxed in the same way, and, to look at them, one would have thought that it was a pair of something going somewhere together, which was true. Of course, one was a trie heavier than the other, but that could only be told by hefting. "I swung my lamp over those boxes pretty often as we neared Parkersburg, for I had resolved to play a joke on that dance. I scraped the marks off the boxes, and changed the addresses! As the dance would be under way when we got in of course the leader of the band had arranged to receive his pack- age at the cars, without waiting for it to go through the city office. Same with the friends of the corpse.   58   Romance and .Humor of the Road. After satisfying myself as to these points, I calmly awaited the last whistle. "There were two crowds at the depot waiting for me. As soon as the leader of the band received an affirmative answer to his inquiry he gave direc- tions to his men to ' take it quick to the orchestra in the ball-room and open it, for the music was waiting;' and after signing my book he hurried away. The friends of the corpse had brought a hearse, and, after scanning the address, lifted the box in, remarking, carelessly, that it must be much depayed, it was so light. t {--I had drawn my month's pay that morning, and, after making my report, sat down and wrote out my resignation, giving it to the boys to forward to Baltimore, and telling the manager that I was ill and he must put an office man on my run'in the morning. - Then I gathered up my trips at the U. S., left a note for -my sweetheart, and took a room down at the ' Exchange,' near the river. "There wasn't much of a newspaper there then, but it managed to get a, report of the affair next evening. They opened the corpse in the dining- room, where the dance was going on, and there was a scene. Musicians tumbled over each other,- for there was a dead body there instead of a fiddle-- women screamed and rushed from the room; lamps fell from the walls-well, it just broke the whole thing up. On the other hand, the bass viol was buried with great solemnity, and tears of grief were   Conductor's Gossip.   -  59 dropped upon its silent bosom. When I left for Cincinnati arrangements were being made to resur. rect the one and bury the other, but whether there were tears and grief enough left for the second act I never cared to inquire."  Johnnie Richardson, of the Hannibal & St. Joe, thought it was. his turn. "If you have ever been over our road you must remember Smith's ' Coupon Shed,' where we stop- ped ten minutes for a bowl of sweet milk'and a. chunk of brown bread, price ten cents. Nothing could be more refreshing at a late hour of night, and I have heard many a passenger assent, that they relished it better than the most elaborate meal. "Well, I  knew one duck to get too much of it! On account of the uncertain ballast of our road we are required to be more particular in enforcing that old rule- ' Passengers are not allowed to stand on the platform.' This duck insisted upon riding on the platform, and as fast as I hauled him in off of one he would dive through for another. To all my expostulations his only reply was: "'Sir, I ant looking at the Missouri moon!' "I gottired of following him from one platform to another, and finally, getting him by the arm, I said: ( Say, done out here yet?" "' Sir, no sir, I am looking atthe Missouri milky- way now! " "Well," I replied, " we are on the down grade *."   60  .Romance and .Humor of the Road. now, and if you stay out here much longer you'll get in a milky-way yourself, and see stars too.' "The joke had no effect upon him, although I think it's about as good a thing as any of you fellows ever got off. "My customer was an insane conductor, just dis- charged from the T. P. & W." "I am a sleeping-car conductor," said Jones, "and, if we weren't sworn to keep all secrets, I might-give you, boys, many a good thing. We have to keep everything under cover, you know. A country couple, evidently just married, got on at station, Michigan Central Road, and I gave them the best room I had.' Passing through after- wards I colld just hear enough of the whispering to know that they were discussing the novelty of a bed on the cars. f'Arriving at the end of their journey in the morning I entered the car as they were leaving it, just in time to hear the rustic bride say: "' Wal, Josh, ef that's what the call a birth I ain't afeerd, be you?' " That reminds me of an. adventure," followed Drury, "of a little circumstance, I might say, if there hadn't been more that one. "I run the Pacific Express train on the Pan Handle road. We left Columbus, Ohio, one night, and everything went on as usual, until we got be- tween Dennison and Steubenville. Then one of my brakesmen notified me that a lady desired my    Conductor's Gossip.      61 presence in the rear car. Now, I am a married man, and proof against the tricks of fast girls, but I always try to make ladies comfortable on my train. I found the lady in some trouble and embar- rassment. First, was I a married man? Told her I was. Then it transpired that she was on her way fronm Cincinnati to join her husband in New York, and' that a crisis was impending, involving the appearance of an additional passenger. I was taken back some, of course, but I set to work to make the lady comfortable. First, to clear the car of all male' bipeds; next, to summon from the forward cars all the female assistance that could be had.: The result was a fine girl, weighing, I should judge, about nine pounds. I always carried a change of underwear with me, in case of accidents, and from this supply the ladies soon improvised  a wardrobe for  my new   passenger. This was all swell enough, if the fates had been satisfied. The train left Steu- benville on time, and was soon thundering through and around the hills of West Virginia, when I received another shock from the same battery. This time it was a 'bouncing boy,' as the old ladies have it-twins, by all that is out! One a Buckeye and  the other a   Pan-Handler. The remainder of my underclothing went to start this --young rascal on his first trip. Then for fear some- thing might happen, I sent word to the engineer to hurry up, and we'reached Pittsburg ahead of time. These two half-fares had no tickets, it is true, but   62   Romance and Humor of the Road. you will admit that it was but half fair to bring them through! We conveyed them tenderly-to the Union Hotel, at Pittsburg, and forwarded a tele- gram to the husband at New York. What effect the joyful (?) tidings had upon him has never trans- pired." Voray took up the cue, and replied, " that if that lady had been on the Illinois Central in 1865, she would have had a sad time. We had a fellow, then, running from Amboy to Chicago, who, I think, was as white-livered a thing as ever I came across. His heart must have been built originally for a chicken, and his soul--well, he had none. I present him here as Charlie -----; it would be a shamre to give his name-- and he was known among the boys as the ' Star Conductor.' "It was in February, 1865. A lone woman with an -infant was at   Station, waiting for this conductor's train.- It was considerably behind time, and it was scarcely a moment at the platform when a quick ' All aboard!' drove it on again. In that moment the woman with the infant in her arms attempted to get on, but fell between the platform and the passing train. The infant fell from her arms, and I believe, was killed; while the wheels tore nearly all the clothing from her body, though her life was saved. The depot men and others made every signal to the conductor to stop, even before he got on himself, and passengers pulled the ropes, but he followed with a signal to go on, and   Conductor's Gossip.       63 the train went on. He was behind time! He was very fond of exacting fare from poor employees who were unable to obtain passes; and upon another occasion, put a servant girl off on the-prairie, because she lacked twelve cents of her fare. He was up to all kinds of meanness, and was reported regularly two or three times a week, but he kept his train in spite of all complaints. At last he attempted to collect extra fare from soldiers, and 1 believe that brought his papers. Hie is ' recorded' in the fol- lowing rhyme, which  ill be heartily applauded by every old Central conductor. If it reaches Anboy, it will be preserved in J. R.'s office, as a precious bit of history." "Oh, here now, stop your blarney, and go ahead with that rhyme!" "THE STAR CONDUCTOR." Tall and slim, with nose extended, Mouth agape and eyes of gray, Crispy hair, with yellow blended, Limbs akimbo, feet astray, Clothed in sombre suit of woolen, Clothes that railroads give away, Does he borrow from the woman Whom he slighted on that day. Lonely lady with an infant, Waiting for the train to go; Did he warn her, did he help her, Struggling with the wheels below?  -                    .   "   Romance and .Humor of the Road. Struggling there with death and horror, Clinging to her little ward, Did he stop the train to save her? He was running " by the card." Did he see her, cold and shiv'ring, With the infant half alive; Did he back his train to help her, Did he tell her he would strive To replace the damaged clothing, Though he could not ease her mind? No! He couldn't see the signals For his train was "' way behind." Does he put away the money, Gathered slyly from the poor Employees and anxious soldiers, To increase his worldly store; Does it ever reach headquarters, Do reports explain it all, Or does it buy him shoddy favor, From the Super in the Hall. How long will they keep this shadow, To annoy the passing trade; Will they not respect the substance, Of reports that have been made. Or shall we always wait for Voray, Or Hendricks and his train? Tell us Jacobs in our hurry, And we'll never ask again! "I am Henry Tristam of the New York and Erie. Three miles out of Jersey City you strike the great   Conductor's Gossip.     65 "Bergen Tunnel," one mile long, through solid rock. If an Irishman were telling this story, he would say, that he had- seen a great many funny scenes occur in that tunnel, only you can see noth- ing at all for the darkness. At the same time I am satisfied that such scenes do occur. Once a gentle- man, for some unexplained reason, undertook to change the lower portion of his apparel, during those dark seconds, but made a wrong calculation as to time! But kissing seems to be the choice sport. Kissing in a tunnel, think of that! I have  been told by a friend, that the charm is in the novelty of the thing. It is the darkness, the rank burglary; the nice calculation as to time; the sud- den assault, and desperate defence; the acute agony of the skirmish line hair pins; the carrying of the outer works; the fierce struggle at the scarp; the sweetness of the surrender; the questionable honor of the victory. Then the horrid repairs, and the impossible attempt to appear serene before the other passengers. There's a short life time in the kissing of a girl in a tunnel! "I had a newly married couple out with me, not long ago, on the Cincinnati express. I have had a gre'at many just such couples in my time, but some how or other these youngsters attracted my atten- tion. Young man, curly hair, of course; young lady, blonde, you know, with that sort of hair that when you and I were young, used to be called tow. Rosy cheeks, full lips; well, I should say, a very   "   Romance and Humor of the Road. kissable girl. He was ' awful sweet on her,' as my brakeman suggested, and she-well, I thought, I could see her saying-' James, be still, everybody's looking at you.' We were coming to the cavernous grove, and James became fidgetty. It was plain there was a conspiracy, and that the tunnel was to be made a party to it. Lady thoughtful, and evi- dently unconscious. Then the wheels rattled and whirred louder and louder, and in another second we were in the tunnel; James, his bride, and all of . us! We came- through all right; and James was through too, the bride not quite. The wreck was fearful! Very little hair left on the head, but quite a bunch on the seat, with a lesser wad on James' shoulder. The color had faded from one of her checks and lodged on his nose. His neck-tie was swinging from her broohe. She commenced the work of reconstruction, looking at him under her uplifted arms, as if to say-' See qwhat you have. done before'these people.' "James went for a drink of water ; I saw him with one hand on the nozzle of the cooler, and the other on a flask. Half the hair pins were gone, and when she came up from the floor, looking as woe-begone andfriendless, I was rude enough to smile. I couldn't help it. She saw it, and smiled in return, as if to say, 'You know how it is your- self.'          -  "Since the yarns are turning in that direction,"   Conductor's Gossip.     67 said Thurston, "I want to tell you of one of our boyson the Pittsburgh and Fort Wayne. His name was Bob Davenport, a good fellow, but very super- stitious in the matter of love. I was on with him, learning the road, and one day as we were approach- ing Clyde, the rear trucks of a back coach twisted some way, and threw two cars off. I was in a forward car, and running back, met Bob coming through, pale as death. "What's the matter Bob?' "Faithful to Jane," was the reply, " faithful to Jane!" "We signaled of course, and stopped, and in a short time had both cars on. We were nearing the next side track, when the trucks played us the same trick again. Bob was in the car at the time, and leaped for his life. When we got back there with the jacks, we found him in the mud. '( How is it now, Bob?" "' Faithful to Jane, boys, faithful to Jane!' "We left that coach on the side-track, and got through all right. I thought the man was insane, until one of his brakemen explained. Bob had been courting two girls named, respectively, Mary and Jane. Both were jealous of each other, and when Bob engaged himself to Jane, the jealousy gained strength. Bob was superstitious in his devotion to Jan-e, and imagined that he must live for her, and her alone. Jane convinced him that if ever he was injured or killed in an accident, she would always   ice and Humor of the Road. believe that it was because he loved Mary better than herself. Hence, when anything went wrong with his train, he would become suddenly crazed, though always ready with the ejaculation, 'Faithful to Jane.' The boys kept his secret until he got married, when he became one of the bravest men on the road." "Are you the conductor?" asked the Irishwoman of Frank Weed. "Ye look so much like the engineer, I thought ye was the fireman; are ye the superintendent, sir, and is this the road to Men- nydoty. I dunno, d'ye moind?" Joe Hunt said, "he was an -old conductor, and used to be in the government employ at Nashville. I keep the 'Brooks House Saloon' now in Kansas City, but I remember the time when I interviewed spirits of a less inspiring sort. "I boarded at the City Hotel in Nashville, and came in one night pretty tired. Landlord said there was a rush of officers moving to the front, and every room in the house was full. He was forced to give up my room, and apologized in the most abject manner. I went to other hotels, but found them all full. Came back, and was informed by the landlord that if I would run a little risk I could have a bed. He had been telegraphed in the morn- ing to reserve the bridal chamber for a couple that would arrive at 8 o'clock. It was now 9.30 and they had not put in an appearance. They might come and they might not, and if I would take the   Conductor's Gossip.   chances I might have that room. I took that room, a magnificent affair it was too, and went to bed. "Now, bridal chambers have never entered very largely into my bachelor experience. I put myself inside the bed-posts, but there were only broken and unsatisfactory slumbers in storefor me. Morpheus was with the individual next door, talking through his nose. Nbow, railway conductors never descend to the low premises of dreams-it wouldn't be safe.. They turn in at night, with a clear conscience, with no apprehensions that the man who refused to pay his fare, or the fellow he put off, are coming to make night hideous with reproaches of the past. But on this occasion I was snatched from out the old order of things by the peculiar surroundings of the place. It was like being in heaven with all the angels gone! Skeletons stalked noiselessly into the room betimes, robed in immaculate garments, and held high carnival, with long hose, tiny slippers, laces, strings, ruffles; and many other shadows of the past that I dare not enumerate. There were old bony hands clasping dainty pictures; and delicate digits, too, with here and there a loose bit of jew- elry clinging to them. There was low music, too, with now and then a sigh; then a whispering; when the bones paired off in a corner, and began making threatening gestures at the innocent bed- posts. One old fleshess gentleman-who had occupied the room with a young bride a score of    70   Romance and Humor of the Road. years before--fil/ally rushed upon me with out- stretched skeleton arms, when I awoke, to find a dusky porter calling me for my train! When I told the landlord of my visitors, he said it was only a lot -of rebels after me because I was a Union man! "Chick"Warner and Hi Evans, of the C., B. & Q., came off a recent trip with coats badly torn and signs of a Mansard roof over somebody's eye. It ,was explained as follows, and is known as "Hi Evans' strategy." It is a common trick for a lot of Irishmen to get on a train, for the purpose of forcing one of the number through free. Six of these gentry got on Evans'* train at Princeton. Five of them had tickets; the other had none, and it was evidently the plan to fight or pass him through. Evans saw his crew was not heavy enough; so when he got to Wyanet, he met "Chick"Warner and Cullenbine with the freight. He told him of the case, and they doubled up, "aChick" bringing his entire crew over to the passenger. "Warner stretched his lamp over one head, and smashed it, the head giving way in several places. Cullenbine pushed another through a seat, until he reached the floor. Hi. remained passive for a time, owing to an 'order' he had received from the general superintendent never to strike an Irishman unless he had the proper implement. But when the enemy introduced a knife, Evans advanced with   Conductor's Gossip.     71 a wrench, and the victory was complete. When the rule was explained, that every passenger must pay or produce a pass, the money was forthcoming, and the Celtic braves spent the remainder of the trip in dressing each other's wounds. Loss, parts of two new coats and one 'King' lamp. "'Not quite so much style and dignity out on those Kansas roads as they put on further east,' says John Minckler. 'Ed. Jewett, who used to be on the C., B. & Q., is ticket agent at Kansas City. His office is a sort of headquarters there. I was sitting there with him one day, when a rough-looking, portly fellow came in and sat down 'by the stove. His pants were rolled up, and he wore a seedy, slouch hat. I wondered who he could be, and what he was doing behind the scenes. Ed. had to get up to ticket somebody, and when he sat down again the rough-looking fellow broke out with - "'I've got the most penurious set of conductors and men in the world. Here I am without money, and no way of getting any-can't even get a drink.' "Ed. smiled, as though he was used to such inter- rogations, and, turning to me, said: "'Mr. Minckler, this is "Uncle Ben," assistant superintendent of the Leavenworth, Lawrence & Galveston road.' "Of course, we all went over to Joe Hunt's and took some 'brine.' "You let that express messenger put in a word.   72   Romance and Humor of the Road. Now make room for one of the oldest ticket agents in the United States. I was conductor on the Little Miami road, and the C., I. & D., in Ohio, for a long time; and left the track on account of my health, or for the want of it. Opened a general ticket office, on my own account, adjoining the 'Burnett House,' in Cincinnati, just above the Vine street entrance. Name--ah! I forgot, Pettybone- on the road, ' Pet.' "Rush one day for tickets; everybody going everywhere.. My clerk had gone to a funeral. Of course, there will be mistakes, when one is in a hurry. About an hour after it was all over a well- known lawyer came in and returned me a one-dollar note, overpaid him in making change.  I was speechless; then, as my eyes moistened, I grasped him by the hand, and exclaimed: "'Judge, stand still a moment. Let me look at you--and you a lawyer, too.' We went in and had a cobbler. "When I made up my cash that night, 1 threw out a one dollar counterfeit bill. That was the bill I got froln Judge C----." Joe Reevy said' he used to be agent of the Terre Haute Road, at Pana, Illinois. Had a ticket-clerk who was a little tricky. One week the Western roads were flooded with well-executed counterfeit $5 notes on the Chippewa-Bark, and my clerk got stuck on one. This was returned to us, with a printed description of the counterfeit, and direc-   Conductor's Gossip.     73 tions for detecting it. This we pasted up outside, near the window. That counterfeit Chippewa laid on the clerk's desk for a long time, waiting for a call. Next night, portly gentlemen came along; asked for ticket to--- , handing clerk two five dollar notes, Chippewa Bank, both genuine. Clerk took them in quickly, dropped one on his desk, and threw out his counterfeit. "Sorry, sir, but that is not a genuine bill!" "Not genuine!" exclaimed the astonished gen- tleman, "I gave you two-both alike!" "Beg pardon sir, here they are. One is good; the other is not. You will find a description of the counterfeit near you there on the wall. Do me the favor to examine for yourself, as others are wait- ing." i The gentleman ' examined,' was convinced; gave another five, and received his ticket. The audacity of the thing, and the extraordinary cool- ness of the clerk, made me powerless to interfere, and I allowed him to 'get even.' The last time I heard of thatl clerk, he was running for Congress against an honest soldier, with the chances two to one in his favor. Yes, sir, I am residing now in St. Louis." Henry Tristan, conductor on the Hudson River Railway, said one of his brakeman came into pos. session of a " blessing " in a singular manner, and he thought the fact ought to be recorded. He tells it in rhyme, and being a long-winded cuss, the 6 B          v   74    Romance and Humor of the Road. account is somewhat tedious, but'. the point comes in at the right place: "EFT' BEHND. [A BRAKESMAN'S RHYME.] "Oh, Sir, my box--the black one there, Oh, would you be so kind, It's all I have in this wide world, And that is left behind." I pulled the rope, and number twelve Backed slowly to her place; I can't forget that oblong box, Nor, indeed, that lady's face. Now if things that lose their owners, All our sympathies so bind, How much more should living creatures, Who forlorn, are left behind. See the dog in some strange city,. Who has lost his master, kind, I confess an honest pity For a cur that's left behind. With his nose upon the pavement, How he threads the mighty throng, Lifting anxious eyes' to faces, Whining out his lonely song. Kicked and cuffed by. every idler, Set upon by his own kind;- I could hang the man who strikes him, A poor dog that's left behind.   Conductor's Gossip.       75 For I can't forget the schooldays, Those first days at Abbott Lawn; When the shadow of a mother, That bent o'er me was withdrawn. Or the utter desolation, The despair that filled my mind, When- she left me with the master, Left her little boy behind. So I pitied this poor lady, Travelling alone that night, With the box that held her wardrobe, Scarce a dozen pounds in weight. Seeking friends in some great city, Or a lover there to find, Or perchance a friendless maiden, Whom Love had left behind. So I turned my brake and fixed it, Then looked her up a seat, Gave the fire an overhauling, Then sat down to warm my feet. And my heart went towards that lady, For her weeping made me blind, So I went and sat beside her, Though I left a wife behind. By this time we reached the station I believe I touched my hat, When the lady came and asked me- "Would I have an eye to that? M    76   Romance and .Humor of the Road. I expect to meet my brother, "If the telegram went through; "Then "--she sobbed-" he'll come and get it, "With many thanks to you!" Henry Tristan, our conductor, Now came through the crowded train; And I told him why I signaled, And we both went back again. Taking up the oblong bundle, We could find no plain address; So we put it by for orders To return by first express. But that' order" never reached us, And that brother never came; So I took that bundle with me, And it found a home and name. He's as bright a little youngster, And as pretty as you'll find- But my wife will never tell you How that boy was left behind. N. R. Wager, I. C. R. R.:  "I had a baggage smasher ruining with me once, who had his old fashioned ideas of running baggage exploded in a very peculiar way. Jim had ruined two or three trunks for a certain traveling man who resolved to teach him a lesson. This gentleman, who was in the hardware line, packed a carpet-bag full of loaded revolvers, and handed it to my man Jim. Jim threw the bag up against the wall savagely, then   Conductor's Gossip.     " drew it on the floor, and stamped on it as usual. At about the fourth jump, firing began along the whole line. Forty-two revolvers went off in rapid succession, distributing bullets around the car with disgusting carelessness, the smasher's legs running against six of them, before he could get out of the car. He rode upon the platform during the whole of that trip, and when he did enter the car, he encased his legs in stove-pipe, and ran an iron clad snow plow in front of him, to push the baggage out with. He is running on our main line now, and I believe he smashes fewer carpet-bags than he did in the blissful past;-much fewer, and he wears a melancholy air. The only boon he craves, as Sage tells me, is that he may be present when that carpet- bagger calls with his check. He threatens to check his career." "Howland asked some one to explain what the difficulty was the other day between George Burt, of the B. & M. and Long of the Barrett House, at Burlington. "Johnnie Miller of the B. & M. replied that it was something about the price of meals, George Burt consumed too much hash for the price he paid, and Long attempted to tighten his cravat, and close the switch. Now he would like to know about that lady who went over the B. & M. and C., B. & Q. recently, on a pass from the-Christian Commission, at Chicago. She appeared to be familiar with the names of all the conductors, but Haywood, of the   78   Romance and Humor of the Boad. B. & M. was the most polite of them all, and ' Loosh' Howland, of the C., B. & Q. the most intelligent and accomplished gentleman. She gave the latter the number of her box at Chicago, and he " conducted" her correspondence to and fro, in order to facilitate her labors among the heathen." "As there was no one present to explain this mystery, Avery of the Ohio & Miss. offered a fresh joke on "Fatty," of his line. "Fatty " got married a short time ago, and ate too liberally at his wedding supper. Nightmare followed, and he imagined it a locomotive, of course. He dreamed that he was thrown on to a log and fastened there, in the middle of the track, a train approaching. He tugged and pulled and twisted to free himself, but was unsuc- cessful until the train dashed up, when he was lifted by the cow catcher. He awoke to find himself lying on the floor, his wife standing over him brandishing a chair, and demanding to know why he had pulled her out of bed by the leg!" "Charlie Hurd is the general ticket agent at Galesburg," said Sam Crance. "When he got married, Charlie and his lovely bride took his train for Quincy, occupying a state-room all to themselves. When they went in there for the night,. Hurd gave orders to the colored porter, to allow no one to approach that part of the car, or disturb thenr in any way. I was posted, of course, and when we all got fairlyunderway, I hammered lustily at the state- room door and called for 'tickets.' There was no    Conductor's Gossip.     79 response, though I repeated the summons every half hour. I asked the porter how many were in the stateroom. Two, he replied. I could not get in, and if they had tickets at all, they must have been punched at the other end. There were more than two started on that journey, though it was some eight months and twellty days before the report was made to our Superintendent. Kingsbery says he thinks it would be a good thing for Mr. Hank Hawley, if he would take a state-room for Quincy!" "Col. Billings, Mr. Hitchcock's private secretary at Galesburg, wanted to know 'if Mr. Hawley was ever in the crockery-ware business, and if so, ware was his crockery?" "Just as No. 14 was about pulling out at Galesburg one afternoon, our Train Dispatcher appeared with a two gallon butter-crock under his arm. He saw a boy climbing on the end of the train. ' Hi boy,' says Hank, ' get off o' there.' The lad made an insulting gesture in reply, and H. stooped to pick up a stone. This effort cost him his crock, for it slipped from his arm, and broke into a thousand pieces. The waiting passengers roared with laughter and the boy escaped." "Jack Haney, known as ' Old Flatwheel,' formerly of the Prairie du Chien, is now a popular conductor on the Union Pacific. He was conductor of the famous excursion train, composed entirely of Pull- man cars, on lightning time, from New York through- to San Francisco, with orders to see how   80   Romance and .Humor of the Road. fast he could go! Old Devant, President of the road, was aboard, and, remonstrating with Jack, told him to decrease his speed, or he would kill every one on the train. "' My orders- are,' replied Jack, 'to take you over this- division of the road as fast as steam can carry you. You needn't be alarmed about so small a train as this. When we kill any out here, we always kill enough to make it an object! ' "Hank Argentine, a popular conductor on the Rock Island road, says he likes to see a commercial traveler taken down occasionally. On a recent occa- sion, one of these gentry got on his train, and, as usual, spread himself and baggage over two seats. A lady afterwards entered, apparently a young and timid thing, and, after some trouble, I got her crowded in among the traveling man's baggage, on the opposite seat. Then my corhtmercial began to do the agreeable; they are always so knowing, those traveling men. He began to suggest to the young lady that the spring season was approaching, wlien she hoped there would be no collision. ' Fine weather for vegetation,' continued Com- mercial. ' Yes,' said the lady, 6 green things were growing bold.' ' Which way was she going?' Going for him, if he didn't keep a proper distance.' "Ah, see," he said, not at all discomfited, and pointing through the window--"See! what sort of an animal is that?" "'Judging from its baggage,' she replied, prompt- ly, 'I should think it was a traveling man. '" !   Conductor's Gossip.  ,   81 My brakeman, who is a bit of a wag, thinks our Commercial made a bull of it! Billy Cummins, passenger conductor on the C., B. & Q., went into Chicago recently, accompanied by his little boy, a lad of some five or six years. Neal Ruggles met the twain on the street. "Hallo, Billy," said- Ruggles, C"is that your boy?" "It is," replied Billy, " and a dam foine bye he is, too. Here, Johnnie, ye spalpeen, come to your faither." Johnnie, who was busy near by with a fresh sup- ply of candy, slowly approached. "Howld up your head-light, sir!" exclaimed the proud father. Johnnie held up his head. l Now, sir, how much are tin and two?" "I don't know, father, said the boy, much abashed. "'The Hill you don't, ye blackguard; give me back that candy," and the victim of paternal disci- pline lost his treat. Hoyt says: George Burt is now train dispatcher at Ottumwa. He used to be conductor on the Old Colony road, out of Boston. And J. C. Mullen, General Agent of the B. and M. at Creston, Iowa, used to be an old conductor on the Camden and Amboy. The C., B. & Q. boys, now on other roads, asked to be remembered here, and send greeting   82   Romance and Humor of the Road. to their old comrades. Duggan, formerly operator at Somonauk, is now 'a popular conductor on the B. & M. Colonel B. O. Carr, one of the pio- neer conductors on the C., B. & Q., and after- wards an efficient officer in the: Federal army, is now a conductor on the Central California. Bob Matteson, an old C., B. & Q. man, is now super- intendent of some road in California. Coleman is on the H. & St. Joe Road, and Patch and Minck- ler are running on Kansas lines. Until recently the U. P. Road was almost entirely manned by old C., B. & Q. employees, from General Superintend- ent to brakemen. Scarcely a Western road but has a C., B.-& Q. man, and they are still in de- mand. This is due, to a great extent, to the excel- lent arid thorough discipline in force on the C., B. & Q., and the splendid material in the way of men always on hand. y     f     r    THE MERRY MONGOLE. This in the cars, on the last trip I made, To Frisco, on business that paid. This time I came on to my first Chinee, A villainous pig-tailed jade. Thej had a young railroad abreast of the street, I remark they are hard for to beat. That's where I discovered that Merry Mongole, And the facts I proceed to repeat. I wish to observe that I never before Saw a brig of that sort ashore. Two horses in front, and a pilot behind, And wheels to the number of four, Which I hailed, and the fellow aloft he replied, And I went for a seat inside. I hauled up 'longside of a crisp old maid, And a girl that was fit for a bride. Old Gwyn, coming out of a three days' spree, And a Frenchy, sat opposite me. In the corner a lot of cheap satin and silk, Which the same was a living Chinee.   84    Romance and Humor of the Road. I resolved to destroy that infernal Tientsin, And whispered as much to old Gwyn. He laughed and replied that he thought it was Fun, And the maid feared it might be Ah Sin!  . . "He's going to Joss," said old Gwyn-in a w irl- But that cove is a cheap labor churl. I'll send him to -here the uncivilized cuss Made a bow, on the sly, to that girl. He smiled on the maid, and as sure as you're grown He gave Frenchy an imported frown. "Sacre," said Frenchy--"My Lord," said the maid, And I made for a seat lower down. I said to myself, "Here, you keep the "Queen Bess," And you've sailed on many a sea; Now, will you sit by and allow these females To be smiled on'by any Chinee? Not much, if the court-what is it I see?- That sinner is bowing to' me! I arose, and a lurch of that rickety brig Threw me over upon that Chinee! "Ki Yi!" with a yell, and the fellow awoke, Rubbing his three-cornered eyes; He was going to Joss for a prayer and a smoke, And had slept all the way from "Shanghai's."   WAY-CAR GOSSIP. Sayre and the Lecturess-Grudge against oytt--Sargent and the Relief Associatioon-ow Courtney got away against Brown-- A 2Brakeman's Nerve-ZLucas and the Head-lfght--Bil getting his Foot in it-"Doc" and the Obstacles--ow a Patch was put on EEga--Bdred-Joe Packard and Sargent on Religion- Goliah and the Boiled Eggs--Testimonial to MGEl. Weed-Rich- ardson's little Sermon,-Keep your heart clean--Bow Cummings gave 'Orders-4Sat-" and the Dutch Girl--Don2t John"-A six-dollar Boar--In a Pog--ow Aivery made a lightning stop -The Dog Charmer-A subterranean Shooting Gallery--Th Girl -and the ftair-oil--The Irishman's Snake--Sargent a nd the Old Lady--Jim Workins' -Leap-Prospecting for Water-A Iegend of the C., B. &d Q.-Testimonial to Uawley-Richard- sons Wine--Merrill's Claim--Footing a Bill-Our Nephew-Jiml and the Wolves-f-rank Stone's Plaster-De Groot in the JGain- The Phantomt Brakemnan--"Richk" and the Dog-Merrill and the Ku-'Klux-Bass8le7s Turkeys--Charlie Russell and his Sweetheart-How Pomeroy Killed the Thief-Old Screws-Dave Field8s Patent-- ortons Serenade-Boss HarrelU- lopklnst  Jevolver - funtington's Four Dollars-bHow Cdrey gets his RZules--Allisons Sel--Promotion--Mahannah-An Irishman's Raise. rg   T-ILL SAYRE was going through his car o Qa one day, and saw a lady smoking a pipe lD  very industriously in a rear seat. g"  fJ "Madam," said the courteous freight don- ductor, "we don't even allow men to smoke in this car."   nce and Humor of the Road. "'That is an excellent rule, sir, she replied, with the utmost coolness; 'if I see any man smoking in here, I'll inform you at once."' Bill thinks she was some lecturess on woman's rights. Courtney of the C., B. & Q. has some sort of a grudge against Hoyt, roadmaster on the East Division. He says, " all iron that comes out of Chicago, is 'My Iron!' When it gets to Aurora he takes Sar- gent in as a partner, and it is ' Our Iron.' When it gets to Mendota, it's ' y Iron' again." "Say, Pursell, what was the matter with Sargent, when you boys started that 'Relief Association?' "Well, at that time, Sargent was agent of the 'Providence Insurance Company,' what ever that is. He thought he was going to get the boys into that, but we couldn't see it. And when he saw that our 'Association' was going to be the thing, he opposed it. He said it wouldn't work at all; it was all non- sense. But when Superintendent Hitchcock signed our paper and gave us cheering words, little Sargent thought the Association was an excellent thing. He now has a written notice posted at Aurora, advising all 'My Men'. to join us. We ought to raise money enough among us to have that ' Notice' printed. With his name" to it, it will have a fear- ful (?) influence on the Aurora boys. "'Is he running that insurance company yet?' "No, Providence went back on him."   Way-Car Gossip.   87   "Secoy said he was going to tell the boys how Courtney got out against. Brown. He believed George would get off a joke if the Angel Gabriel should blow his horn. I was running the extra freight, with Courtney as my engineer, and Brown was pulling brother Bristol. We were pulling into Neponset, when we met 24 with her flag gone, and then went for Kewanee. When in the hollow, west of Neponset, met Bristol and Brown going for Neponset. Thought something was wrong and Brown was evidently of the same opinion. Court- - ney commenced to back up, but the grade was too much for him. I ran out after Brown to stop him. He was handling his engine with masterly skill, but still he gained on George, whose nerve failed him. He was on the last step, and his fireman on the other, ready to jump. For forty rods they ran within a car's length of each other, at a five mile gait-we trying to get away, Brown trying to stop. Brown stood witli one hand on the throttle and the other on the lever-while Courtney, at this hazard- ous moment, passed in one of his jokes. "When he was in the army, he took a job at driving mules. He had a yellow mule in which he had no confidence whatever. One night, after eating up the bows of the wagon, this yellow mule com- menced pawing Courtney out from under it, in order to eat him up. He thought his chances now were about as big as when the yellow mule was after him.   88   Romance and Humor of the Road. "All this danger was brought about though the carelessness of a brakeman who let his white lamp go out."' "Last tall," said Patch, "Tom Holdsworth had an Extra Stock East, on the Main Line. He stop- ped on the grade, and Len. Bassett, a brakeman, went back to flag. In starting up, the train broke in two. Bassett, seeing that he could not stop the train that was following, and gaining rapidly upon -them--rushedfor his own train; woke up his drovers, and jumped them out," saving a number of lives. He then put on brakes and stopped his train, the result being but a slight-damage to -the way-car. This was an exhibition of nerve that you don't see every day." "Oh, I don't know as it beats Lucas, much," said Lowry. '-Brakeman, Charlie Lucas, saw a head-light one night, coming pretty close. He took his torpedoes and red light, and went back. Arriv- ing at the proper distance, he found he was flagging a belated farmer who was hunting up stray stock. There were no signs of any other pursuing train. Charlie's name has since been changed from Lucas to looseness, though he never gets tight." "Do you know how near Bill P--- came to getting his foot in it?" asked "Pigeon." "' Did'nt think there was anything big enough to hold it!' "Yes, about ten years ago, he applied to Ham- mond for a passenger train."   Way- Car Gossip.      89 "' All right, sir,' replied. the Colonel; ' only one objection.'  "What's that?" asked P--: "' Require an extra coach to carry your feet."' "Doc. Merriman says he was coming down grade once, to side-track for' some trails, when he saw obstruction on the track ahead. There were two-or inches of snow on the track, which made then more visible, of course. He reversed; called for brakes, and sent his fireman down to clear the way. Fireman returned and said there was nothing there. 'Doc' swore, and went himself. After surveying the obstacles a moment, he looked over to the switch, and there stood Patch. 'Patch,' yelled 'Doc,' the next time you cross the track in fiont of my engine, I want you to pick up your tracks. There ain't an engine on the road can git over 'em in three inches of snow.' - "He played a worse joke than that on Johnfie Egan," broke in ' Chick' Warner. He sent a friend to contract with Johnnie for a pair of boots, for a freight conductor. Egan agreed to do them  for a certain sum, and the friend marked it down, with day and date. Few days after, Patch came in and left his measure. Another week the friend came, tendered the money, and took the ,boots away. Johnnie said nothing at the time, only he told the boys, he lostffour dollars on extra leather, besides the -wages of a boy for holding them up while the workman drove the pegs, and the expense of taking 7 ..   90   Romance and Humor of the Road. down a partition, while the boots were being turned around. That's how a patch was put on a railroad boot-nlaker."         - ," Stinkfinger," who never ' Cods,' says " he found the following on a shingle: BORED.       t Ask Hawley where that lumber went, When "Sanny " spoke those words; Ask Huntington, who owned the road, When Foster shipped those boards. And if the planks went on or off, When that awful "order " came; For if the Buda shelves were built, Some plebian is to blame. Oh, how the mice enjoy the sport When the old cat turns his head; How very large our children grow When the Old Man is abed. Joe Packard, now of the Illinois Central, is prob- ably the worst cut up man on any road. Scarcely a portion of his body but has its scars. His last freak was an attempt to leap from a way-car that -was off the track, on to a coal flat. Just as he jumped the coupling gave way, the car stopped, and he struck down in the road-bed, where there wasn't a particle of coal. He says he'made a better jump since-all the way from theC0.,B. & Q. to the Illinois Central.   Way-Car Gossip.      91 He used to go up into the office and talk religion to Sargent, always leaving the proprietor of the road dumbfounded. During one of these colloquies H. H. came in, threw up his hat, and said he want- ed to ask Joe a Bible question. He did so, and was promptly answered. The superintendent then left him with the remark- "I don't want to talk with you, sir, at all!" Sargent then asked Joe, "Why, when Joseph was thrown in the pit by his brethren, did his father wax warm and rend his garments?" "The Bible answers that question in the same verse," replied Joe. i' Can't see it," ;aid Ghus. "To show his great concern," responded Joe. "Now it's my turn," said Packard: "How many boiled eggs could the giant Goliah eat on an empty stomach?" "Fifty dozen," replied the erudite Gus. "No, sir, only a single egg. If he ate one egg his stomach wouldn't be empty, would it?" Joe has a Sabbath School class now at Amboy. Captain Wells and Rosenbush are his most apt pupils; and he hopes in time to regenerate every heathen heart in the outfit. "The boys did all they could for poor Weed," said Richardson. "Don't remember, Rich," several replied. In 1867, Gill Weed, a popular freight conductor on the C., B. & Q., met with an accident, by which   92   Romance and Hu]mor of the Road. he sustained serious, indeed fatal bodily injuries. Compelled to resign his position, a forced vacation added nothing to his exchequer; so the railroad heart came up to shield misfortune from the cold blasts of an app roaching winter. Mr. Weed was at that time sojourning with his brother, Mr. E. W. Weed, then General Road-Master of the H. & St. Joe Road, with headquarters at Brookfield, Mo., and the suggestion to forward a box of supplies to the sufferer, at that place, was promptly carried into effect. * A committee of railroad men was chosen to make the selections, and a certain Satur- day night was the time, and "' Ox-Horns' " the place. It was at this hour, when railroad men were weary, and their trains were at rest, that a wild car, hIeavily loaded; escaped from its moorings, and tried to run on The Liberal's time-an incident that must recall what I would have you remember. I can't call to mind all the rare garments that went into that box. There was a Cardigan jacket; a Cashmere crimson undershirt; a chinchilla muffler; scarlet Llama drawers; Cashmere balmoral, and angola socks; scarf and bows; silk handkerchiefs; kid gloves; smoking cap; traveling cap; overcoat, pantaloons -well, a princely outfit, from a princely establish- ment. Judd Gowdy--whom Providence had spared for the occasion-did the packing, and the box was shipped, with compliments of the best men on the road. Poor Gill never enjoyed those things, though lie   Way- Car Gossip.      93 thanked the boys with his dying breath. A few weeks after, he died, and his remains were brought to Galesburg, and buried from the Universalist Church. And latterly, Gilquist, who gotout of money and out of a position, wanted to take his family to New York. In four hours -the boys raised him $160, and sent him on his way rejoicing. I tell you, the railroad heart always responds to an appeal from a worthy brother who has fallen by the way, or met his fate like a man, through the risks we are all running every day and every night of our railroad lives. This thought should strengthen and cheer every one of us: that however careless we may seem in our intercourse with each other, the slight- est wound to a brother, is felt by all, from one end of the road to the other, and our hearts are drawn together with a force as irresistible as the steam that draws our trains. Let a man do his duty, bravely and faithfully, against all odds, and the fact will be recorded in unwritten books that will never know the stamp of headquarters. "Go on with your Relief Associations. There ought to be a branch on every road in the country; your Railway Insurance Companies; learn to stand by each other; for united, you are a power. It will be many a long day before the public at large will ap- preciate the bone and sinew of the road; and you may expect only prejudice from the outside world. You jostle this world4 every hour; you carry it safe-   "  Romance and Humor of the Road. ly to and fro; you risk your lives in its behalf-but it is a dainty Public, and your hands and face wear the dirt of your calling--keep your hearts clean; and when the Great Conductor calls for your checks, you may be permitted after all, to occupy a seat in the ' Royal Car,'"' beyond! This is the way Cummings used to give orders to his brakemen: "Joe, there's two cars for Somonauk: put one on the main, an' the other on the back. Barrel o' whisky for Plano! Stop the way-car opposite the passenger-house- d'ye moind?" He had two French brakemen; and when they left him,they could neither speak French or English! "Don't John! Don't John"- These words tumb- ling off the top of a female voice, caused us to, rush for Satterfield's way-car.. There we found John. hugging a Dutch girl, and kissing her in the ipter- vals ,f her screams. After we got them separated, John explained. "You see she had no monish, and no ticket, and I told her she must get off. Den she say, if I let her ride, she would let me hug her and kiss her. I was yoost gettin' my fare boys-datish all. She not know de fare to Aurora, and she can no go at half price." "So - Sat.' went for her again, claiming full fare! Crysdale: We had a smash-up down near Duquoin on the Ill. Central once, when S. M. Avery was Supt. Q of the Central Branch. I don't know now, how much stock was killed, but the next day, Mr. Avery got the following letter."   Way-Car Gossip.       95 DOOCOIN, Jan. 18- Smavery Sentralia. I want you to cum 'yer at oncet theres bin a smashup i want you to bring six dollars to pay for mi hog-the hog squeeled, but the engine wouldn't stop its a bore. J. CERAMPLE. "The old man thought it was "a bore" sure enough." Sayre: "About the only thing a conductor fears is the dense fog. We were caught in one, one trip, and if you'll let me spit it out in my own way, maybe you can understand. "Hank, says I, you go over and tell Spielman, (engineer) to keep a wild eye. Second extra on No. 18, left Leland about five minutes ago. Look back pretty often, see if they're coming. Tell Spielman to side-track and let No. Four by, at Sandwich. Tell him to. get in out of the way, quicker than lightning, for No. Four will be whooping 'em up, by the time she strikes the whistling post. I don't want to drop any torpedo on her to-night, for Si. has got 28 just out of the shop and he'd hate awful- ly to flag that engine." "Hank says, "All right," and rushes up the ladder, and over on to the engine. Fog! No, I guess not. On arriving at the switch, Spielman whistles down brakes. I call out from the way-car and asked, What's the matter? Si. says, Extra ahead on one side-track, engine disabled on the other. About that time I could hear No. Four coming over the iron bridge, about a mile off! I picked up red-   96   Romance and Humor of the Road. light and ran back with the flag. Ran as far as- I dared; slapped down two torpedos. Ran a little further, and could just see No. Four's head-light. Looked to be about forty feet in the air. Could almost feel her hot breath as she came tearing along, anxious to make iqp every lost minute. Si. behind her-anxious for the reputation of his better half, as he styled his engine-was peering through the fog. As he see the red flag waved across the track, he whistled down brakes; and without waiting to shut her off, hauled her over. Rail being wet, she slip- ped, and as he struck the torpedos, he slipped out between tender and engine, and took a look at things. About that time his head-light shone on the hind end of a way-car, and four or five drovers were climbing off-boot in one hand, and a prod in the other-making for a corn-field." "A miss is as good as a mile, so Si. felt greatly relieved, when he discovered that the only damage done, was the wetting of the 28 all over, with that peculiar mixture of coal dust and water, for which the boys have an appropriate name. Believe me, I don't like those fogs." "Dutch Cooper" was coming west on 25, and wanted to stop down in the hollow near Wyanet, for water. Frank Avery the brakeman, proposed to give him a " lightning stop," right there, all by him- self! Coming from Princeton to Wyanet, Frank got asleep, and failed to gel out. The consequence was they ran by the tub, clear into Wyanet, (you see   Way-Car Gossip.       97 it was down grade) Cooper just screaming for brakes. ie was mad, and backed up to the tub, swearing like a streak; In the mean time, Frank was scratching his head, and studying how he was to get out of the scrape. While Cooper was taking water, Avery goes over on the engine and sayvs: "Cooper, I like to broke my leg back -there." "How ish dat?" asked C. "-Well, I got out on top, and tried to set the brake, but the derned dog broke, and threw me off -nearly killed me." "Ish dat so? Veil, I wash pooty tam mad; but I feelsh better now, as you most broke your tam leg!" That's the way Avery made the " lightning stop!" Whenever a cur, be he of high or low degree, catches Satterfield's eye, that moment the cur is doomed. "-Sat. is known as the "Dog Charmer," and he has charmed, captured and winged, 278 dogs, since he has been running on the East End. It is a source of revenue, not to be despised. His method is similar to that of the snake that is said to charm birds. He catches the dog's eye, looks at him steadily for a moment, and transfixes him to the spot. Then, making a few passes, the animal is magnetized, and completely under his control. He has been known to draw a favorite dog to him .in this way, while the master's hand was carressing its head, and the poor thing would glide to "Sat's" side, impelled byv a force it was impossible to resist.   98   Romance and Humor of the Road. The last and perhaps the worst adventure in this line, was in the case of a Chicago dog, that had- been bred to-city ways, and traveled on his shape. He was a valuable game dog, and his owner would not part with him at any price. "Sat" worked on that animal for some time, but the education of the dog was against him.- The power of his eye seemed to have no effect, and "Sat" thought he would try the virtue of manipulation. He approached, paw- ing the air with his hands, when the dog flew at him and tore the vest from his body, Still "Sat" stuck to it, and in a little while the conquered ani- mal followed him quietly to the way-car.  He sold that dog afterwards for $25 to pay for the vest. He has now 17 dogs on hand. "I paid a visit the other night," said Clarke, "to the subterranean shooting gallery, owned and operated by the Messrs. Converse & Kingsberry, in the cellar of the latter's residence in Galesburg. To one oppressed by the cares of state, and weighed down by the responsibility attending the manage- ment and direction of a vast railway, I can fancy no more pleasant divertisement than the harmless shooting of a few metal wafers into the smooth head of a beer keg." "Oh, well-here-go on with the story!" (' I found a beer keg set up in one end of the cel- lar, as a target. I cannot in truth say what that keg may have contained. At the other end of the inclosure stood the gentlemen named, each armed   Way-Car Gossip.      99 with an air gun. I will add, that every little missile coming from that source was propelled by wind--" "Say, are you going to shoot us off a yarn, or not?" "Well, there's no more to it; only, that they are there at it every night, till one or two o'clock in the morning, and I consider it a very pleasant divertise- ment indeed, especially where there are no books to read, and nothing more to learn!" Dave Field, who was on his way to Burlington to paint a railroad sign, thought he had as much right to a sketch as any one. Roby, his former partner in the paint shop, took a bottle of gold size with him one night to do some little job at home. He set it up on the mantel- piece; and the next day, the girl who attended to the rooms took it down and inspected it-thoroughly. She finally concluded that it was some new kind of hair oil, and began to apply it to her own- hair. She put it on pretty thick, and it seemed to take well. It is a liquid, you know, like varnish; and has the same effect. I think about that time the poor creature had as heavy a head of thick hair as any girl in the neighborhood. "Get it out? No! That head of hair remained a matted mass-a complete whole--for two. weeks; but it had the gloss!" Ed. Wood (Frank's brother) was once running a construction train on the Iron Mountain Road, now the North Missouri. He got to his gravel pit, and   100  .Romance and Humor of the Road. commenced loading. A number of Irish laborers were above, breaking the surface. All at once, there was a terrible hubbub among them, and Ed. called out to know what was the matter? "Mr. Wood," screamed a tall laborer, trembling with fear; "Mr. Wood, there's a shnake here, sir, the length of noine men!" Wood went up and hauled out his revolver, expecting to meet a boa constrictor that had escaped from some menagerie. "Where is it?" he demanded. "Just forninst the stump." He approached the stump and drew out a snake by the tail about eight inches long! "Well, Mr. Wood," said the first speaker, "ye see he was under the stump there, and while Mickey there was looking at his ta l, sure, I was watching his head. Ye see, sir, ef we could have seen the varmint all at onct. Bad luck to 'um!" A few years ago, Gus. Sargent was braking on a passenger train on the C., B. & Q., winding up the company's business, as some of us are doing now, he was a left-handed brakeman, and the brakes always went the wrong way. On one occasion an old lady was aboard who wanted to get off at Kewa- nee. When they came to the water-tank, two miles east of Kewanee, Sargent helped the old lady off. When approaching Kewanee, the conductor inquired for the old lady. "I helped her off at Kewanee," said the innocent Gus.   Way- Car Gossip.       101 'Why, you fool, this is Kewanee!" Sargent has never been able to distinguish a tank from a station since. Jim Workins was coming along with the way freight on the middle division. . Arriving at Arling- ton, he found several trains there blocked up. Jim got his train stopped and went back to flag the train following him. After stopping them pretty close to the way-car, he went inside, and feeling tired went to sleep. Courtney, his engineer, oiled the rails in front of the drivers, got up on' his engine, pulled her wide open and called for brakes. Jim jumped to his feet, and, sure that everything was going to pieces, leaped though thel cupola, and lit on his hands and feet. Never pausing to look around, he kept up this leap-frog gait until he cleared the fence. PROSPECTING FOR WATER. [A LEGEND OF THE ., B. & Q.] C., B. & Curious boys a legend tell How once upon a time a drouth befell A certain tank-the name is known quite well. Now, it often happened that the boys went dry, When far removed from bases of supply. But tanks had better chances to keep high. The source dried up it's mouth-this much was plain- Kept it's own secret-hid in the hill again- And all attempts to pump it proved in vain.   znd Humor of the Road. The distress occasioned by this sad mishap, Was felt alike by plebian and satrap; Engines refused to go without their pap. Headquarters sent an order, short and dry, Demanding moisture, and a good supply; The agent's railroad life, the penalty. Then K. of Kewanee prayed a railroad prayer, And asked the gods to bust a rock somewhere; Consulted next year's almanac in despair. Then called a friend and sought a neighboring hill, And lo! adown its breast a flowing rill, Its little music whispering-" Peace! be still." Back to headquarters to transmit the news, Then to the hill to hear his partner's views; Who met him, shouting-" There's no time to lose." "I have tasted of this water; and I find It crude petroleum of the regular kind. Taste it my boy, and satisfy your mind.". Then K. of Kewanee dipped his fingers in, As though it were a stream of whisky skin; Or some safe outlet from a cask-of gin. I do not say that agents all are such, But put that in you see, by way of crutch: K. was not one who drank so very much. "Partner," said he in a confidential way, "Our fortune's made, this very blessed day; Let's swear to keep it secret. What d' ye say?"   Way-Car Gossip.   And there beside that gently flowing stream, ,The twain joined hands upon that slippery scheme. Ah me ! if things were. always as they seem. Then up the stream they walked with stealthy tread, Like those who plan a crime; for at its head Lay the flowing well-two fortunes ready made. Once on the hill, they found a browsing herd Of friendly kine, that seemed to be on guard Over fresh0pools, upon the moistened sward. And when the cattle threw their, tails in air, They left this moral to the swearing pair: Let well enough, alone I well, everywhere. Mr. Hank Hawley, Train Dispatcher of the C., B. & Q. at Galesburg, is a railroad man of great energy and    excellent judgment.    Having   risen from the ranks to his present position, through his own merits, he appreciates the responsibility, but does not forget that the employes are the same men to-day as when he was with them   in the yard. As long as they do their duty, he stands by them, as fair a contract as could be made between man and man.    On a recent occasion, the officers and em- ployes generally presented Mr. Hawley with a val- uable gold watch chain, with charms containing the pictures of his wife and mother, as a tribute of respect both to the man and the officer. Mr. Billings, of the Supt.'s office, was selected to make the presentation speech, a very worthy and 104   Romance and Humor of the 'Road. creditable performance indeed. The business, how- ever, was new to the gentleman, and appreciating the honor, did not dare to appear in public without a rehearsal. For this purpose he sought the coal house-a retired locality-7where, mounted upon a coal hod, he went through the motions with greett satisfaction to himself and the assembled coal. But a darkey, hearing a strange noise in this unusual place, peered through the crack, and seeing a man making strange gestures at the innocent coal, gave f the alarm. A crowd gathered.  "Afore God, masse," says the darky,  " afore God, de man's. sick;" and it required all of the young orator's tact to escape from the water which was drawn for his immersion.       * "Jim Richardson, or 'Rich,' as we called him," said Lucas, " used to brke for Dan Elliott. On one occasion, when running on the Lewiston Branch, he discovered a leak, a fluid of an attractive color and odor issuing from one of the cars. He went for it with his best forefinger, sucking as he went. Pleased with- the taste, and anxious to capture a bucket of the wine, he out with his key and went in. He found it a car of green hides, leaking; and 'Rich' has been hiding ever since. Dodd says he has heard a good deal about the tied that bind us; the links of the mystic chain that unite Masons, and all that, but the worst case in point came to light this month. - Eight years ago, Neal Ruggles sold a massive silver watch chain to   Way-Car Gossip.      105 George Merrill, and just received his pay last week. The chain was worn to a mere thread, but Neal says the money looked fearfully new to him. Jackson added that "'Red Cloud,' on the East End, suspends a man thirty days for running two minutes over seventeen miles an hour. He ought to have some sort of a chain." "Well," said dollins, " he can borrow one from ' Spotted Tail,' at Aurora." Conductor P. (', now this is all among ourselves, you know," said Rogers,) was sitting in his way car, one day, with his legs crossed, one foot, of course, in air. A waggish passenger, who had been noticing the size and peculiar shape of the pedals, approached' P., and taking out his pockethook, 'said: "I want to bet five dollars that that is the biggest  and ugliest foot now living." "Put up your money," said P., ', I take that bet." A brakeman was called and the stakes placed in his hands. P. then coolly exhibited his other foot I "The money is yours," exclaimed the astonished passenger, and P. was five dollars ahead. "Hoyt," says Slim Jim, "is the nephew of his uncle. He broke three months, ran baggage two months, then got a gravel train, then a freight. That's what I call getting set up pretty quick. Has a good deal to say, and the other day I asked him something about the new time card." "Don't know,"' said he; "better ask some of these second-class freight men." 8   106   Romance und Humor of the Road. ,Second-class freight men!"I -replied; "where and what would you be if you wasn't somebodys nephew?" Once he went in swimming, at Quincy, and came near drowning. "Oh, save me, boys! save me!" he cried; "I am baggage-man on the C., B. & Q., and the Superin- tendent's nephew!"  "( What about that time at Mendota?" asked Hoyt, " when Jim Howland, Sadd and the drovers went to get their brine? Got left, and followed red lights on way car to Meridan, a distance of five miles. And that other time, when 6Slim Jim' was courting at Buda, and borrowed a revolver, to keep off the wolves?" "And I would like to know," said Sadd, "about Frank Stone's going to a doctor, a short time after 'his marriage, and getting some sort of a plaster, and what he ever done with it?" Jackson said, 'De Groot, running freight to Aurorar pulled out of Wyanet, ahead of No. 4, and got stalled, going into Princeton; raining hard, he got out with his umbrella, to flag No. 4. Engineer asked why he hadn't got out before. De Groot replied that he didn't propose to get off a train run- ning twelve or fourteen miles an hour. His being stalled on a hill-this was considered as a good thing." "If the train is running that fast,;" rejoined the engineer, " what in h-1 are you doing there with that umbrella?"   Way-Car Gossip.--     107 Hackney, of the Fox River Valley Road, had a brakeman of whom he. stood in the greatest fear. One time he got off the track, at Donner's Grove, on the East End. ile was on, the engine at the time, and in backing got her off. Having no flag, he had tied his coat on the back end of the train, but the circumstance had slipped his mind. Start- ing back, the wind blew the sleeves of the coat vio- lently, and Hackney, thinking it was his brakeman- on his muscle, broke,for the prairie. That's an. actual fact. He is frequently asked to explain,' about that Phantom Brakeman! Courtney says, that when Ans. 1' Rich" was run- ning freight he stole a dog from the lady with whom' he was boarding, at Aurora. He put him in the way car and locked him in. The lady came over and claimed her dog. "Rich " declared he hadn't seen the animal at all. The cur kept still until he had eaten up Rich's dinner, then he jumped through the window. The lady informed Ans. that he must look up another boarding-house, and went quietly away with herpet." Merrill ran across a band of Ku Klux, with hook eyes, on the Buda grade. Much alarmed, he re- ported the circumstance at headquarters,' describing their mysterious movements, and detailing all the facts. An order was issued immediately that all trains should run slow down that grade, and uncle Billy Hughes furnished extra lamps. George was complimented for working in the interest of the   108   Romance and Humor of the Road. company, until it transpired that the Ku Klux were a number of coal-miners, with lamps in their caps! "A hunting party, composed of Jim Clark, John Bassler, John Bassett, a demijohn, and Dan Patch, left Galesbui'g in quest of game. Patch and Bassler got off' at Biggsville to go down through the woods to hunt turkey and squirrel, and to join the others on the bottoms. Patch and Bassler, being strong temperance men, were entrusted with the demijohn, with orders to have it filled. Clark and Bassett, however, failed -to get around, and the-party met at Sagetown that night. There Patch and Bassler got on the train with two wild turkeys. Clark was a little surprised that two such fine specimens of wild turkey, could be found in that vicinity, and when no satisfactory report of the demijohn could be given, he began to cross-question the lucky hunters. All that could be elicited was, that they had come upon the turkeys suddenly, shot off their heads, and considered it game enough for one day. "Next day, Patch invited. Sanny Kingsbery and John Minckler (both old hunters) to a game dinner. They enjoyed it hugely; KEingsbery especially. He praised the strong flavor of the wild turkey, as com- pared with the domestic fowl, expatiating upon the difference in the color of the meat, etc., with all the enthusiasm of 'an experienced sportsman. 'It leaked out that on arriving at Cgonrad's saloon, at Sagetown,Patch and Bassler left the demi- john to be filled. In strolling about the premises,   Way-Car Gossip.      109 they discovered several very large and plump tur- keys. They offered Coonrad three dollars if he would let theni shoot two of the largest. .Coonrad contributed two dollars to the fund, and told them to consult his old woman. They got the turkeys as well as their fellow-hunters, who got nothing. Bass- ler then went earnestly to work for the West admin- istratiorl, which was temperance to an alarming degree."        ) /"Charlie Russell, conductor on the T., P. & W. paid court to a lady, who, as society rules, was' somewhat above his station. In vain did he assure her that promotion was rapid on the T., P. & W. That merit and brains formed the test there; that he was rising rapidly in favor at headquarters, and- would in the course of time, have a small road of his own. To all this the fair creature turned a deaf ear. Nothing short of a ready-made Superinten- dent would fill the measure of her ambition. "Then the   news of Mr. iHitchcock's serious illness reached Charlie Russell, and he was probably the only individual in all the land, that rejoiced at our efficient Superintendent's affliction. Hurried to sweetheart, and told her the road was clear, he was to take Mr. Hitchcock's place, and they would be married at once.   Sweetheart consented, and they parted, sealing the sacred pledge with. a true lover's kiss. "The next day sweetheart left her lover on the main line, and side-tracked at Galesburg. Here she   , , "O   Romance and Humor of the, Road. found Mr. H. convalescent; seated comfortably in his office, with no thought of death or successor. Charlie has no sweetheart now, and is satisfied he used the wrong flag!" A detective, gathering items of interest in the shops and about the depot, concludes that they may as well be loaded in the way-car, as any where else. Mr. C. S. Pomeroy, better known as "6 Brick, No. 2," is the transfer express clerk at the depot in Galesburg, Ill. A responsible position, the duties being performed with that promptness and fidelity which is the chief merit of this branch. Mr. Pom- eroy is said to be one of the handsomest young men in the city, with a courtly air; but it will be seen that neither good looks or grace of manner will protect an expressman from the dangers and trials incident to his profession. "Brick" has charge of all trains in his line, sleep- ing in the depot, and retiring after the departure of the last train. Not long since, trifling depredations were being committed in the transfer office; sneak- thieves found means of entrance, and opened bar- rels of crackers, boxes of fruit, etc., baffling all attempts at detection. "Brick" finally resolved 'tP9n a grand coup. He piled up some long narrow l- bol,.containing light freight, with a few boxes of f A,nan A 'top, a coop of game chickens, arranged s   kale hit^h careless touch would bring them Ito the  ;I'bi en him. . This done, he secured a heavy ctl ut '  e gas, aid went to sleep. , "  ' ' ^ ^,/   Way-Car Gossip.      " It was not long until the crash came, and in a moment, Brick was on his feet... Moonlight through a crack or window revealed an out-line of the situa- tion. The boxes lay partially opened, the chickens * were abroad, and in the midst of the debris lay the thief! Not a boy or a woman, but a Swedish man with the national hair, and florid countenance. Anything but a Swedish thief, thought "Brick " in the excitement, and though the enemy was prostrate, he laid on his club with frequent and vigorous Sglows. There-was no cry of pain, no effort at resistance, no sound or echo, save the sickly thud. "Brick" concluded that the thief had been killed by his fall. So he lit his gas, and checked off the result. He had killed Gen. G. Washington, the father ot his Country, and a hero for '76 years. The (en- eral having been done in wax, was on his way to Wood's Museum at Chicago, to join his staff. "Brick " had introduced him at a Matinee before his time. Of course, Brick waxed warm, and it sticks to him  to this day! Mr. Tom. Aylesburg foreman of the coach repair shops, is not only one of the beat singers in the city, but one of the, most quietly popular " bosses" in the Galesburg outfit. , For years not a fault had been found with his administration, until a month ago his men entered a formal complaint. During all those -years he had compelled them to use old-   "2   Romance and Humor of the Road. screws, while more favored employees were allowed tfo have new ones. The boys thought it was putting the screws to them a little-too strong. Mr. L. C. Way the courteous foreman of the Railroad shop at Galesburg, has been connected with 'that department on the 'road for fifteen years, and has never known a single death to occur in it, in all that time. Mr. Dave Field, Mr. Way's diminutive artist, has secured a patent for an improvement on the Bab- cock Fire Extinguisher. It consists of a sprinkling attachment designed for summer use. He has quite an attachment for his invention, and thinks it will be of great benefit to small families. Mr. Gus. Holton is the musical artist of Mr. Way's department. He iA much given to the guitar, and with this companion frequently strolls abroad at un- ,certain hours of the night, in search of landscapes. On a recent occasion, he threw up a barricade in front of the Knox Female Seminary; and attacked that fortress with voice and string, until every shut- ter in the building was closed.. About this time a party of Ku Klux came upon the scene, captured young Lochinvar, carried him to the adjacent park, and, compelled him to empty himself of all the music he contained. The talented gentleman- has opposed open air concerts ever since. , The boys in the varnish department are astounded. at the versatility of Mr. C. F. Harrel. When the boss is away, he is the glass-cutter; gives out   Way-Car Gossip.      113 sponges and scrubbing-brushes .with the air arid facility of one who was born a proprietor, and had been weaned upon valuables. When the Charley Taylor tableau was being enacted at the Depot Hotel, the guests were aroused at a very unseemly hour. They crowded the halls in imperfect toilets, and manifested a carelessness in regard to apparel which upon a less frightful occa- sion, would have been dangerous in the extreme. Hopkins, the accomplished clerk of the establish- ment, felt it his duty to protect his guests; and in' the hurry and excitement, rushed upon the scene clad only in that garment for which there is neither a classical or euphonious name.. "See!" said a lady in alarm, surveying the gath- ering crowd. "There is Mr. and Mrs. -! And there is so-and-so,-and--gracious me!-there is Mr. Hopkins with his revolver!" There are gentlemen occupying prominent posi- tions in the shops, who have' waded from the bottom through the most discouraging-dfficulties. Mr. Hun- tington, now in charge of the Carpenter Shops at Galesburg, is one of them. A few years ago, when things went against him, the boys clubbed together, as is the custom, and raised a complimentary sub- scription, which relieved the gentleman fr6m all embarrassment. The other day, one of them came to Galesburg and applied to Mr. H. for a job. He was not very politely received, and obtained no encouragement.   "4   Romance and Humor of the Road. "Do you know who I am?" asked the applicant. "No,." replied Huntington, gruffly. "Well," some years ago, when I was a, foreman, I got up a paper for you, and put my name on it for four dollars." Mr. H. gave him his four dollars, and the account was squared. If carpenters ever get to be angels, perhaps this was one in disguise. The peculiar manner in which Mr. Carey-fore- man of the machine shop at Galesburg, gets his rules, is explained by Mr. Dave Brown. Brown finds a two-foot Stanley rule, and informing Lewis, the two agree to ' fix it' on Carey. Lewis goes to Carey, tells him Brown has found a Hubbard:rule, and gives him a description of it. Carey calls "Bob Ridley" aside in the Round House, and says: "Now I'll show you how I'll foolish Brown out of that rule." He then goes to Brown and says: "Brown, I understand you have found a rule?" "Yes," replies Brown. "Well, that is my rule; I lost it yesterday." "Describe it," savys Brown, " and you can have it." Carey then proceeds to describe a Hubbard rule, brass bound, two notches in the end, etc. Brown then shows him the Stanley rule, and told him Lewis had given him the wrong description. "Did Lewis see that rule?" asked Carey. "Yes," said Brown; and the joke was out. "I am sorry to learn from the Eastern papers," said Burton, " that my old friend Jim Allison has   Way-Car Gossip.      115 gone into the counterfeit money business. Notthathe was caught in the act of ' shoving the queer,' but that he had the ' qiueer' in his possession, there can be-no doubt. Jim is-agent at LeRoy, on the Erie road, and is known all over that line as the prince of good fellows, and very fond of a joke. A short time since, he received a valuable (?) package from those sharpers in New York--a small box of saw- dust and $92 in bogus greenbacks. Upon paying the C. O. D. and examining his prize, Jim acknowl- edged that Sit was the first time he ever bought a' 'sell' and paid for it in cash, in his life. The papers of LeRoy thereupon published the facts, and warned the public to look out for Allison and his counterfeit money." Simpson, of Buda, says there is a sign hung in a conspicuous place at a certain station on the T., P. & W. with the following, painted in gilt letters: "NOTIS. Aple bois are forbid to pedle thar stuff on these Platform." It is feared the author of that "Notis" is subject to attacks of appleplexy. "The system of promotion, on some of our roads," remarked the Honorable Freeman of the Kansas Pacific; "if there is a system at all, is not very well defined. There is a passenger conductor on the C., B. & Q. road in Illinois, that jumped all apprenticeship and rode into his present berth over the, heads of good men who had been at the wheel for years. Another worthy fellow on the same '   nee and Humor of the Road. road, Jim Howland for instance, recently got a freight train after braking on the same road for ten or twelve years.  Sometimes, of course, it is the fault of the men, but it oftener happens that their claims and merits are overlooked." "Now, there's Billy Murphy, running passenger on the Albany and Susquehanna.   He was for- merly a Justice of the Peace at Schoharra, New York-a man of few trials. Through the influence of influential friends, he got his present position, never serving a minute at the wheel.  I'm  all smashed up now, and can't get about much, so I'd like to ask Billy if he remembers when he pitched into my peanut stand at Schoharra, and if he has ever asked to be forgiven?  Also, if "Fat Jack" (he used to weigh 450, boys, as sure as that's a crutch) if Fat Jack and Cas. Griffin, of the same road, remember that they were running as bounty- jumpers in the army when I was U. S. Deputy Mar- shal at Albany ?" Collins: "Jack, tell us how you fellows scared Crawley out on the U. P. or whatever road it was." Freeman:    Well, we thought it was a joke then; but it's hardly worth telling here, -Johnnie Crawley was train dispatcher then, good man, too.  He is now train dispatcher of the Lake Superior and Minnesota Road, headquarters at Duluth. We started out of Bear River with a gravel train, at the time I had charge of the Pit.  Craw- ley was on, and when we got near Aspen he thought   Way-C ar Gossip.   we wasn't going quite fast enough.  I told the engineer to let her out. In a few moments that train was flying. It'wasn't certain that the wheels would stand that rate of speed. Crawley told me to hold her up, and Frank Brown, the conductor, tried to put on the brakes.  I picked up a chunk of coal and told Brown to let her go, or I'd bust his head, until Crawley, pale with fear, yelled out: "This train will never reach the pit in the world; she's bound for the ditch." And he got ready to jump; but we made the pit. /I wish you'd ask Crawley if he remembers when I brought a gang to Bryan to play a base ball club, and took the freight train from there to Wasatch ?" When Shanghai Mahannah was a freight con- ductor on the C., B. & Q., he and Freeman; Sheik and Frank O'Neal, took a ride out to the race- course; then a new thing in Galesburg. They got the most expensive rig the town could afford, and Shang, attired in, one of Gordon's most gorgeous suits, drove the span. When the race was well under way, Jack threw down a ten dollar note, as a bet on the hindmost horse.  A countryman stepped up and took it, note, bet and all. Jack went for him with that famous Missouri knife, and there was a race, not in the bill. Now Shang carried passengers, while the rest of the boys were running extra freight, and H. H. thought a suit of Gordon's clothes, and a span of horses, must cost a deal of the Company's money; so Slang got his time.  "8  Romance and Humor of the Road. Freeman afterwards took charge of the yard at Logansport, Indiana, on what was then the Great Eastern road. Mahannah joined him, and the two had high old times in that yard. The road was six months behind with its employees, and, of course, all hands were perfectly independent. Freeman went down to the switch-house, one night, and told Shang to make up a train. Shang was pretty sleepy, and not in a working humor. So he fixed the switch wrong, and told the engineer of the switching engine to " come ahead-hurry up!" Of course, the engine got off, and while the en- gineer was swearing, in broken Dutch, Shang says to Jack-  "D-n the Dutchman, I'm going back to sleep- now, and wait till I get my pay." Martin Squires-now on the B. & M.-was set up as extra on the C., 'B. & Q., running he're and there, without ta crew. He was awakened at an early hour, one morning, -by the watchman, with orders to go to braking on the Peoria freight, the road being short of men. "By whose authority do you call me to go to braking?" asked Squires,/in a pompous manner. "Makes no difference," replied the watchman, "you get up and go to braking on the Peoria freight." "Sir!" rejoined Squires, "I will give you to dis- tinctly understand that I am not a brakeman, sir, but a conductor on the C., B. & Q."   Way-Car Gossip.      119 Martin is now braking on the B. & M., which is what the boys call an "Irishman's raise!" An Irishman's raise. shure, an Irishman's raise; From the top to the bottom, all of yer days. When Foster was braking, for John "Sat," on the East End, the train broke in two. "Sat " sent Foster back for a pin, and the new brakeman re- turned with a common brass pin, that one of the boys had pulled out of his coat. "Sat " was a lit- tle surprised, but he told him to take- the pin and go' back and couple the cars. Foster saw the point, and his knowledge of coupling-pins dates from that occasion. "In regard to promotion," said George, "men who brake on freight trains are the first to rise. The brakeman on a first-class passenger never looks out for any other train, while the brakeman on freight has to look out for every other train, espe- cially if he is running extra. He must know the time-card thoroughly, and keep his eyes open all the time. A man who wants to learn railroading must begin with this practice. The freight brake- man goes through an expertence, while the man on a passenger goes through nothing." Again, the merest bit of luck may set a man up. Ans. Rich had a colt, and about a year ago heput him up in a raffle. Ike Lowrey took a chance, and won the colt. Kingsberry, at headquarters, had a horse, not so promising an animal as Lowrey's colt;   120   Romance and Humor of the Road. so he proposed- a trade. Immediately after the trade was effected Lowrey was set up. Maybe it was a sort of bonus. "I don't know how K. makes his money; its no affair of mine. tie has charge of the fuel business for the whole road, examines all papers, etc. If there is a margin he would be a fuel himself if he did not take advantage of it." "Yes, Idid hear that there were to be changes at headquarters in Galesburg--a new deal throughout. This will suit employees and cause general rejoicing. Charlie Clappth is to succeed Hudson, on the east end-which is correct. Clappell is the best railroad man that ever struck the C., B. & Q.; knows more; the best train dispatcher the road ever had." Jim Clark is always running Ruggles on some- thing or other. Gets a rig on him; never lets up. The other day Neal was sitting at the depot when the Road-Master came along. "Jim," said Ruggles, "I hear that you are using entirely too much of the company's oil." "Oil," replied Clark, " what for?" "Oiling that crane of yours," rejoined Ruggles, amid the laughter of the crowd. Where the point comes in, few knew. At a meeting of the Relief Association, it was proposed to appoint Dick Love on the committee to amend the Constitution. Dick declined the honor with the remark that he " couldn't mend a hog hole in a gate."   Way-. Car Gossip.    . 121 Drovers, as a class, are the most impudent and tyrannical patrons of the road. It does the boys good to get away with one occasionally. Ike Lowrey -known on the C., B. & Q., as "Champaign Charlie,"--went out' with a stock train one day, with "Reddy"Blair as brakeman. When they got to Altona, Ike sent Reddy back to tell the drovers that " now was a good time to get up their stock."  One of the drovers said to Reddy, "Is my stock down?"   "Yes, sir," replied the brakeman. "You are, a liar," said the insolent drover. "You are a gentleman," responded Reddy, " which is the biggest lie I know of." "Get out of this car," said the drover. "Who is running this car?" retorted Reddy. "I can run it if I wantto," said the drover, waxing warm.  "I came here like a gentleman to notify you that your stock was down, and you insult me. Now get out of this car or there will be a piece of stock down that can't get up." Reddy then went for him and put a Mansard roof over both of his eyes, punching him severely, and, draw- ing him from the car, completing the job on the track. Then, calling assistance, the drover was carried back into the car, where the boys washed and dressed his wounds. The affair was subse- quently investigated at headquarters, and the decision rendered that employees are justified in protecting their rights and dignity, upon all occasions. This incident occurred about six months ago, and last week the drovers' shirt collar was dug out of a coal- wekth    122   Romance and Humor of the Road. pit, nea r Altona, and it now hangs in a frame in Rogers' way-car, as a bloody warning to all drovers not to drive too fast. Mr. J. T. Irwin is foreman of the engine house at Mendota. He is also in the patent troche business, receiving many an odd dollar from this novel branch, which never sees the ppy-car. This troche is designed as a substitute for pills of the opposite sex, and is for the especial benefit of persons not dis- posed to suffer little children to come unto them. It is of the shape, size and consistency of a gun-wad, and is applied in the same manner. The mode of application is reprehensible, but the effects are sure in every instance. A Dr. Secord, of Chicago, is the inventor, but being ashamed to be publicly known in the business, took Irwin in as a partner. The circulars read, "Apply to Mrs. Dr. Irwin, Passenger House, Mendota." Mr. Noland Hazard, the amiable clerk in Colville's bookstore, is quite a beau among the beautiful young ladies of Division Headquarters. On a recent occasion he was passing through the College Park, a short distance in the rear of a pretty girl. Anx- ious to attract her attention, he let off a true lover's sneeze. What was his surprise to hear another and a louder sneeze in response, issuing apparently from a tree near by. In another moment, Murphy, of the machine shop, came from behind the tree, when both went into a loud laugh. Murphy would be in better business watching Charlie Weeks, the young mechanic who runs the biggest tool in the shops.   THE NIGHT EXPRE5S. STATION AGENT8s RHYME. Half-an-hour-till train time, sir, A fearful dark night, too; Look at the switch-lights, Tom, my boy, Fetch in a stick when you're through. "On time," why yes, I guess so, Dispatch says, " left all right;" She'll come round the curve a-flyin', Sime Murray comes up to-night. Don't know him! well, he's engineer; Been on here all his life; I'll never forget the mornin' He married his little wife. The summer the mill-hands struck, sir, Quit work there, every one; Kicked up a row in the village, And shot old Donavan's son. Murray was there, say an hour, When up came an order from Kress, Ordering Sime to go up there, And bring down the Night Express. He left his gal in a hurry-- A pity to spoil his fun- Thinkin' of nothin' but Mary, And the train he had to run.   124 -  Romance and Humor of the Road. And Mary sat by the window, To wait for the nighs express; And sir, if she had't 'a' done so, She'd been a widow, I guess. For it must 'a' been nigh midnight When them mill hands left the ridge, They come down, the drunken devils, Tore up a rail from the bridge. But Mary heard 'em workin'- Guessed there was somethin' wrong-- And in less than fifteen minutes Murray's train would be along. She couldn't come here to tell us, A mile-it wouldn't 'a' done- So she just grabbed up a lantern, Then made for the bridge alone. Down came the night express, sir, And Sime was making her climb, But Mary held up the lantern, A swingin' it all the time. Well, by Jove! Sime saw the signal, And stopped the night express; And he found his Mary cryin, On the track, in her weddin' dress. Cryin' and laughin', for joy, sir, And holdin' on t9 the light- Hello! here's the train-good-bye, sir, Sime Murray's on time to-night.   TELEGRAPH GOSSIP. Sound Operators-A Negative Bliss-A Key to Tender Hearts-How thipple secured a Wooden Leg-A Message from Fortune-Lovee ,and Commerce-The Six Spectres-Despatchers on the C., B. & Q-Death of Phillips-D. K. Smith on Short Circuit-A New Office-Kingsbery's Beer CurrentIt's Influence at Sagetown- Edgar's Evidence-Two Operators on their Travels-Marcellus on Keeler of the I. C. R. R.-N-ow Old lKeeler Delivered a Message- lFowl Play-"Can I See your Instrument?"-Answer by Keeler- How the Wrong Operator Caught It-Female Operators-Their Ignorance of Telegraphie Terms-MJow their Batteries get out of Order--ow an Operatorfixed a Supt.--An Operator's Rhyme- O. Vaughn. of Bloomington-Bow he always Won at Poker--His Best Baand-A ZJost Arm--essage prom a Corpse-North Pole at Arlington. 3T OW   that trains are " run" by telegraph on Ball our prominent railways, only the most *l experienced and expert operators are em- ployed.   They must be " sound" operators anid sound men in   every instance.   The discipline approaches reverity, yet it will be    seen, that the boys have their own jokes.     The days of ' Plugs," and "Students," are over, outside of so-called "Com- mercial Colleges;" and if these jokes are not always   wce and Humor of the Road. chaste in their brevity, there are no young ideas to corrupt, by undercurrents of telegraphic currency. Since the writer left the key-when Davenport ruled in Ohio, and Anson Stager condescended to take pleasure trips with us to Louisville-girls have "come on," so that what was once a "positive" blessing, has now become a "negative" bliss. That operators have found a key to tender hearts by this questionable innovation, is most true. Examples abound both humorous and pathetic. The most notable that occurs to us now, is the case of Whipple on the Ohio and Mississippi. A girl took charge of the office at Brownstown, Indiana. Whipple and Charlie Crysdale were at Seymour. Both were wags; constantly "selling" some of the boys; and both were handsome fellows in curled hair. One- night Avery/ came out on the St. Louis express, and told Whipple, with a sly wink, to go for "Bn"--" she's a beauty, I tell you." "Golden locks, waving like the surface of a mild sea; thiough always seated, a form of wonderful grace and symmetry, with a face-why, Whip., I never saw the like!"Whip. thought fortune had sent him a message sure enough, and the "O. K." came promptly. Being bashful, he resolved to court her by telegraph, and asked her name that very night. He took all her " hard' business for Cincinnati, and sent it from "Bn" himself. He even went so far as to allbw her to send her commercial business to him by train, and he would return answers in the   Telegraph Gossip.   127   same way. Well, the acquaintance ripened just as it does under similar circumstances in all books. But somehow or other, he could never get any nearer to his love. Crysdale always wanted to sleep whenever he proposed a visit to Browpstown. But the dot and dashes told his love, and by the aid of ground wire, kept his secret. He proposed, was accepted-and after getting a few hundred dollars ahead, was married at Brownstown. She was taken suddenly ill on the occasion, and as Whip. would per- mit no postponement, she sat in a chair during the ceremony. Whip. resigned next day, and with his bride, left for parts unknown.  Crysdale afterwards tele- graphed us, that she had a wooden leg and red hair! I thought this one of Crysdale's jokes until some- thing over a year after the marriage, I was in Dayton, Ohio, and went down to the C., H. & D. depot to call on Ed. Demorest, one of the old time opera- tors, as Fred Swain will testify. Ed. was off, and there sat Whipple at the key! He looked to be about 40 years old. Was glad to see us, and turn- ing down his "adjustment;" inquired in a sorrowful voice, if we were going to remain in the city over night. Told him we were, and would be glad to have him join our party at the Phillips House, after tea. Can't," he said. "Oh, Lord! can't join noth- ing." "What's up?" we inquired.    rnce and Humor of the Road. W-wife-wife-ain't nothing up-w-wife's down." Then taking us aside, as if his "Sounder" might hear, the whole truth came out, with only one "break." "W-wife's going to have-you know-a-a b-baby to-night--" "Good for you, my boy!" "But say, S--, do you think it'll-it'll have a w-w-wooden leg, and red hair? "Can't say, Whip.," trying to pacify him. "'Currents' vary so in this latitude -no telling how anything will get through." We do not gather telegraphic operators in any particular apartment, in order to obtain supplies for our telegraph gossip. The telegraph ignores space; and while operators seldom meet, save in the city offices, they are never separated-except through the temporary interposition of a broken wire, a storm, or ground connections. Mr. Fred II. Tubbs is the superintendent of the O., B. & Q. telegraph, with headquarters at Gales- burg, an accomplished telegraphist, and clever gentleman. A visit to his office causes one to won- der how admirably the system of railroad telegraphy operates. We found here six of the oldest and most experienced of operators, giving their ears to the "tick," and their eyes to the card; watching through the wires the machinery moving in all directions over the entire line, with a firm but invis- ible grasp upon each train. The " order" that   requires but a moment in transmission, may pre- vent collision; avoid delay and confusion, and save life; while the ominous tick tells of the position of every train, and conveys to the superintendent of the road, the tidings " all is well!" These six spectres are enclosed in a wooden cage. You peer at them through gratings, and wonder when they will get out. You make signs to them, but they make no response; you offer tobacco, but they do not bite. No sound save the irrepressible dot and dash. No word is spoken, and there is no noise. In instant communication with the whole world, they have no word for you. If you give them ten words, it is "80 and 8;" but they must be unspoken. The telegraph has a silent language of its own, current only with the battery that sup- plies the breath, and the magic key that gives it articulation. The total number of dispatchers on this line is eleven. At Aurora, W. H. Mixer, J. W. Roland, C. H. Speed, John Woods; at Galesburg, F. C. Rice, C. H. Fuller, C. E. Simpson, J. Odell, W. N. Bixby, J. M. Lamoreux; at Burlington, W. J. Edgar, assisted by L. R. Sykes. Mr. W. D. Sargent, late manager of the Harrisburg (Pa.) office, is chief operator of the Eastern Division, and Mr. Edgar, at Burlington, of the Western Division, the whole under the direction of Mr. Tubbs, one of the ablest telegraphists in the country, and who has had much to do with bringing the western telegraph system to its present condition of efficiency.  130   Romance and .Humor of the Road. The operator always carries his dot and dash with him. You will find him making a key of his knife at the table, if his dinner is slow; and com- municating with his wife in monosyllables, which he is-taurrht to believe, save both time and money. It is the ruling passion, strong in death. When we were summoned to the death-bed of poor Charlie Phillips at New Albany, he had but an hour' or two to live. "No use boys," said he; "no battery; no cur- rent; zinc's all eaten away, and no time to galvan- ize now. Guess I'll have to cut off." D. K. Smith telegraphs from the T., P. & W. that he can't send Uis any jokes this evening was working all last night on short circuit with a stiff key, and don't feel just right. Message is received from Alien, of Sagetown, to this effect: "Understand office just opened in "Our Sunny's" private residence on Prairie street, in Galesburg. Also drayman is seen at regular intervals carrying away empty beer kegs from that private office, and bringing them back filled with beer. As that young person don't drink anything but baptismal fluid, the undersigned wants to know if the beer is used for a local battery. Out here in the country, we use nitric, sulphuric, and rain-water. If beer is cheaper, pis. send out one keg by Neal Ruggles-  he's the only conductor you can trust with it." Mr. Tubbs replies that he don't know from expe- rience, but thinks-   Telegraph Gossip.      131 Here Edgar, of Burlington, breaks in to say that a very good local current is obtained from beer, but it must not be used with porous cups-too much waste! Mendota thinks if beer is sent to him, he can work the main current and save the beer! Bruch says--"Talking about fellows carrying the dots and dashes with them, I know two who made it pay. They, left the Louisville office, and went down the Mississippi River on a sporting tour- playing cards for money. They managed always to sit 'opposite each other, and conversed freely with their fingers on the table. They won every time, and being apparently strangers, the trick was never suspected." Marcellus said he used to run the office out at LaSalle, on the Ill. Central, when old Keeler was agent. "Every Central man who has been on that road any length of time, will remember old Keeler. He got the place by the grace of God and the Meth- odist Church. You see, the Old Man was a Meth- odist, and he favored K. on that account. He was an imbecile; perfectly useless in such a position; tyrannical over his clerks; and insulting and over- bearing in his intercourse with the conductors; scarcely a day but he was reported-but his Metho- dism saved him in every instance. It was at the time Rosenbush was learning to sing bass at Amboy, and he' and Keeler exchanged spectacles; but whether that had anything to do with it or not, I /    132   Romance and Humor of the Road. don't know. Nor am I informed how Rosenbush ever came on with that bass." Sheldon broke in with--"well, here, if you've got a joke g. a.*-if not, give up the circuit to some one who-,has." Marcellus wanted to explain how old Eeeler delivered a message, and saved him. 'It was when Sheldon was manager of the line -at Amboy. One day the following mess. came to my office: To DUN. G. HLL, On Pease's Train, La Salle. Don't fail to ship chiokens by Express. 44. B. FOWEL. "I got it while Charlie Pease's train was about to start. Not a moment was to be lost. Old Keeler was on the platform, spying around. Another mess. was coming-so I opened my key, said "1," and ran out with the mess., sealed in an envelope, and addressed to Mr.- Hill. Told Mr. K. how im- portant it was. Old man took off his spectacles and said he would deliver it. He rushed for the for- ward-coach, and called out, ' Message for Dun. G. Hill!' 'Message for Dun. G. Hill!' - And so through the whole train. Midway of the last coach he met Pease, who loved him with an old conduct- or's love." "For who?" asked Charlie, in a regular Loosh " iHowland voice. "Dun. G. Hill," replied the old man. *J(Go ahead. *E   Telegraph Gossip.     133 "Dung-Hill," said Pease, with a laugh, and open- ing the telegram, read it aloud to the passengers. "Dung-Hill- chickens, by express--B. Fowl. No such party on this train, sir;" and Keeler lit out, very red in the face. After that I was subjected to the most rigid sur- veillance. I had to ticket all the night trains. The old man lived with his family up stairs, over the passenger depot. I frequently caught him peering over the transom of the door, watching my every movement. But he could not sit up very late at night. One night the trains were behind. An old lady and her daughter were in the ladies' room, waiting for the train. My office opened from that room, and on this occasion the door was slightly ajar. Awful lonesome. Line was busy. Nothing disturbed the stillness but the noise of the instru- ment. Pretty soon a pretty face looked in at me from the ticket window. "Good evening, sir." "Good evening," I answered. "Are you all alone in there?" " am." "I'd like to come in and stay with you a few minutes, and see your instrument." "Well, -miss, I have no accommodations-- the fact is-" "Oh, I just want to see how your instrument works, you know; 'twon't take a moment." "Very well, miss," and I opened the door.   134  Romance and Humor of the Road. Just as she stepped in old Keeler sprang out from some corner, seized her by the loose part of her dress, and jerked her out into the room. "I've caught you, you minx!" he almost screamed. "I've suspected this for some time. It's been going on long enough." The girl cried and screamed by turns; the old lady came to her rescue, and there was a scene no- body could describe. "Who was she?" several inquired. Well, the train arrived, and the mother and daughter went to Decatur. Next day her father called upon old Keeler, but he never told anybody who she was. "Whatever became of the old man?" "Well, he got a very sudden message from head- quarters, and went on another road. "What road?"  "I dunno-he died." I was night operator down there at Centralia, on the Branch, for awhile, but didn't know a soul on the line. Lewis was superintendent, but somehow or other I couldn't even get acquainted with him. Yes, my name is Bob. There was a plug at Du Quoin-a boy, I supposed-who went for me the very first night. There wasn't much to do but to receive reports of trains, and the rest of the time lDn " and I fought like cats, though a good many miles apart. It went on that way night after night, until he   Telegraph Gossip.     135 called me a name I couldn't take. I replied with a- worse one. Then he told me, in a business-like way, that he would be down the next night, to thrash me. Knowing that he couldn't-leave, I told him to come on-that he would never get back alive. Next afternoon, I learned, to my horror, that "Dn " could take-the passenger, run down to Cen- tralia, remain twelve minutes, and take the next passenger back. The- cheerful information also reached me, that "Dn" was a grown man, stout, and well-proportioned; while I was a light fellow, weighing scarcely a hundred pounds. We had a day operator, named Jones; he used to be manager of a New Orleans office before the war, and had been in the Confederate army. Good friend of mine, and I knew he would fight. I asked him what he was going to do that night. He said he was going to play billiards, up in the club-room, with Joe Cormick. I told him I expected a friend on the 9.30 train, and would like to spend an hour with him, if he would stay for me and watch the instruments. He said certainly, if I would come up and remind him.' Of course, I reminded him, and when the train came in sight he was seated in my chair, taking reports. I then got out inll a dark place and watched. I saw a strapping big fellow go into the office, and I went round to the other entrance, to see the sport at a safe distance. By the time I got there the fun had commenced.   136   Romance and Humor of the Road. "'Dn" had struck the " night operator" over the head with a cane, much to my friend Jones' sur- prise and disgust. Then Jones let him have a heavy paper-weight right in the snoot, which scat- tered him some, and made the blood fly. Then Cormick coming in on some errand, saw how the game was, and took a hand. I think "Dn" was the worst licked operator I ever saw! Yes, he managed to get to the train, and resigned, of course, the next day. The best of it all was, I got the credit of trouncing him, and the "Night Opera- tor at Centralia " was a terror to the boys on that line for some time. Joe Cormick, who was a pop- ular conductor, as well as an estimable citizen, was afterwards elected Mayor of Centralia. I resigned, too, and went on a line where they were just introducing girls. The current of busi- ness is more refined where girls are employed on a telegraph line, and there is less danger of personal collisions. "Well, can't agree to all of that," said the City Office, at Burlington; " young lady in the Franklin office here, with whom I frequently collide. A handsome and accomplished lady, worthy of any man. Took her to the concert last night." "Trouble Iwith girls," broke in Scott Benson, is they don't seem to comprehend telegrapher's tech- nical terms. They come out of these telegraph schools, as they are called, with a superficial knowl- edge of the business; with an idea that all they   Telegraph Gossip.     137 ought to know is to send and receive. You never knew a female opr. to be a good 'battery nman,' in your life." Amboy. "Well, now, there's a joke from an unexpected source." Benson. We had a girl on our line-no matter where-she's married now-whose battery was always getting out of order, and she herself was sick half the time. I was sent doWn, on one occasion, to straighten the thing out. Went in the office, saluted her politely, took off my hat and coat and said: "Your battery's out of order, I see." "Sir!" said she, coloring. "Your battery's out of order-manager sent me here to attend to it!" She cast hurried glances at her dress, while I examined the " local" under the table. "Yes, I see, your connections are poor." "I won't stand this," she said hysterically. "You can't," said I, "the thing's impossible. You can't work your battery with only one pole connected, and stand it very long! I couldn't make myself clear to that girl, but I got her battery fixed in time for the return train." Marcellus. "I'd like to finish up that La Salle business before I cut out for the night." Sheldon. "Well, g. a." Marcellus. "I had heard that Mr. Jacobs, Super- intendent of the Illinois Central at Amboy, was a 10   138  Romance and Humor of the Road. common looking gentleman, of quiet manners, rather rough exterior, and that if you obeyed rules and orders strictly, you could get on with him well enough. Well, old Keeler gave us strict orders that no one should be allowed in the Ladies Wait- ing Room, after the trains had passed at night. Loafers and dead-beats had been in the habit of slipping in there o' winter nights, and sleeping by the hot stove. Before I went there I was told some thieves, taking advantage of this looseness, had made a raid on the ticket office one night,--which was in the samre room-and the old man had to make good the loss. So I was charged to enforce this ' order' strictly, and, if necessary, call- in the night watchman and station baggageman to my assistance." Speed. "That's getting fearfully tedious. How many words? G. -a. check!"  Marcellus. "bWell, the depot was a mile from any hotel, and there was no gas there then. One night we had a fearful accident at the Long Bridge at La Salle. Train got off at the steam shovel; engine and cars; couldn't get it on; nothing could pass; regular block. Conductor came over to tele- graph Jacobs. Jacobs answered; would I come out on wrecking engine.' It was about three o'clock in the morning-dark and stormy--when they got the track nearly cleared, and I went back to my office to goto bed. Unlocked door of Ladies' Room; found a lamp dimly burning, and a man doubled   Telegraph Gossip.39 up in one of the seats, sound asleep. Went out again;- hunted, up night watchman; woke up bag- gageman-both strapping big Dutchmen-told 'enm to draw that man out of Ladies' Room." "He say he vos von Supertender," said the watch- man, " so I make him in." "Superintendent, that's played out--he's over at the wreck, if he's anywhere. Come, get him out- that's Keeler's orders." "They went at it, and when they got him half- way out he was wide awajke. "Where is'Mr. Keeler " he inquired. "Gone to bed long ago," I answered. "Where is the operator? '-' "I am here, sir, obeying orders." "Don't you know, sir, that I am Mr. Jacobs, Superintendent of this Division?" "I do not, sir. Never saw you before; The fact of it is, sir, Mr. Keeler's order does not permit us to know anybody. Have you a pass, sir?" "Pass for what?" "Pass to sleep in theI Ladies' Room?" "No, sir, I do not--' "Well, sir, then you'll have to pass out. It's ac very old joke indeed, sir." "I tell you I am the Superintendent!" "Can't help it, sir, if you were Jesus Christ, Keeler's orders must be obeyed. Go on, boys." "And they went on. "Nine o'clock, I think it was, same morning,   "O  -Romance and Humor of the Road. they woke me up to send important message. Opened office; few minutes in came party of the -  night before. "Morning, sir," I said. "Good morning," dryly: "Where did you sleep last night?" "Partly in the ' Ladies' Room,' partly in passenger coach. Give me a blank." "Gave him blank, and he wrote the following: 4 J, Track clear; leave in twenty minutes. The operator here is all right.           JOHN C. JACOBS." "Here was a go sure enough. I tried to explain, but he took me by the hand and said: "Young man, you are somewhat impulsive and profane, but you've got the right idea about orders." "Then he was off! Bless his old soul, I would walk fifty miles to shake that hand again. He is still Superintendent of the two divisions at Amboy; beloved by his employees, and endeared to them by a thousand deeds of kindness. ' J. R.' is there too, the same faithful friend and companion. Won- der if he ever thinks of the Euterpeans?"    Telegraph Gossip.       141 BILL. [AN OPERATOR'S RHYME.] Yes; just got through, Tough time, you bet; Well, seein' its you- No, 't ain't late yet. Here's to ye, boy- Chance here you say, "Want a job?"-Yes, Never mind pay. No, ain't quite broke, Some current still, Lived near here once, Did you know Bill? Worked on this line Six years ago, Bill managed then, Press circuit; through. "Sounder"--of course, No paper now; Not worth its salt, Poor and too slow. - tager's machines, Sounders and keys- Not any more-- That's plenty, please. Here's. e"Seventy-Three;" Your "Forty-Four;"   "2   Romance and Humor of the Road. That ain't so bad; Good lines, no, poor. Batteries weak, Op'rators there Had so much line,  Keep in repair. "Through business "-tough, Ground wire, best hold  Students in scores: Boys, young and bold. "Ground wire?"-of course, Open and break; Asking miles off, "What'll you take?" "Deadheads?" yes, more Blockheads and fools, Spoiling our work, With our own tools. Swore we'd resign, Leave on next train; What, when and where? Don't break again. Changed 'em to girls; Bill opposed that; Red-headed cuss, Homely and fat. Yes, so I see, 'Xcuse what I said; Your hair is thin, More gray than red.   Telegraph Gossip.       143 Drink any more, Can't well adjust; Get it well now- Magnet may bust! Bill opposed girls; There-you're too free; Take what I've got- Shut up your key. Pretty one came, Fresh from the schools; Wilson came down, Told us the rules. Bill swore a bit; General whine; Nice place for girls, On such a line. Two weeks, I think, Bill at the key; Asking that girl  If she knew me. Then she would laugh, So would our boss; Next month I went Out to LaCrosse. No, never wrote, Heard she had curls; Bill got mad, too, Bill opposed girls.   "4   Romance and Humor of the Road. What's that you say? What do I think? Stand up, turn round, Shake, and let's drink! '"Married her," eh? How's that for high, No cipher now, Damn it, Bill, why, Open your key; Let's have it all  Storm coming, eh, Maybe a squall? "Taught her to read, By sound, you moke; Strong current then,. Little back stroke. Practiced on words, Easily learned, Dot, dash, they went, Dash, dot, returned. Heart current next, Love for a key; Sent her four words, "Will you have me?" Waited two hours, Boys came around, Busted, they said, Wires on the ground.   Telegraph Gossip. .     145 "n Did she reply?" This by next train  "' Yes, Seventy- Three,* Yours, jary 'Jane." "* Got answer now?" Don't be so bold; One message since, Just-five years old. They have an Avon on the Erie, another on the C., 3. & Q., and all O Vaughn on the old St. Louis, Alton & Chicago, at Bloomington, Ill. The differ- ence between them is, that the Avons took up arms during the war, and the 0. Vaughn laid down an arm before he ever knew what war was. He is still a soldier of the line, however, sacrificing his remaining arm to the sanguinary key that dis- patches train after train every day. We remember when headquarters were in an old shed there, and the evening amusement was poker; with grains of corn for checks, at five cents a grain; every man compelled to see the blind, or no draw. The table was the stone floor, and the beverage snow, on ice. Smith, the auditor, and Moore's private secretary, were always of the party. Vaughn always won, because he always had the best hand. The stump of his left arm was just big enough to conceal an ace nicely, and it had a way of dropping them that was past finding out. If you are on Vaughn's cir- cuit, ask him what he ever did with all that. corn, * My compliments.   "6   Romance and Humor of the Road. and if his first baby isn't marked with an ace, somewhere near the left arm? It was in the muddy days; when they raised two crops of ague and rheumatism, every year; and when to get fiornothe depot to the "Pike House " was a herculean task. We left Vaughil on duty one day, and a message cafme from some corpse, asking a friend to bring a hearse to the depot. Vaughn delivered the message (we had no messeni- gers then), and the stricken, friends came with the hearse, prepared, evidently for a hurried funeral. When the train arrived, the corpse proved to be a very live, healthy gentleman, who had telegraphed for a horse, to take him through the mud. Vaughn swore it came " hearse," and the corpse swore the hearse came, and there came near being a funeral after all. Never mind, O! Vaughn, we are all older now, and the day of the Morse Register has passed. North is the name of the operator at Arlington, on the C., B. & Q. line. As Hall's Arctic expedition is about to start, he is in correspondence with- that gentleman, telling him what he knows about the North pole! He says he has had a current from it, and is satisfied there is an open sea beyond. .         .     .-o   NO ONE TO BLAME. [The reader is referred to the rhyme on page 74, entitled "Left Behind." The following verses were subsequently found pinned to a portion of the child's clothing. It was supposed that the young mother intended-to leave the little waif on some par/- ticular door-step, on an appropriate occasion, but afterwards changed her mind.] Left on the door-step, 'mid lightning and rain, The same old story told over again, Of love unrequited, desertion and shame, Left on the door-step, no home and no name. Robes all embroidered, fine flannels and lace, Who could have left it alone in this place? Some fair and fine lady, with tears and embrace, Left it here sleeping-a smille on its face. Or some friendless maiden, with no one to blame, Whom poverty crush'd, then gave over to shame; Whose stricken heart pray'd for love and a namte,- Left on the door-step, and no one to blame. Perhaps these fine laces were woven in tears, Each thread a new heart-string, that tells of her fears- Fears of the villain who gave it to life, And made her a mother, but never a wife.   "8 .  Romance and Humor of the Road. See those initials, how splendidly wrought, No coarse, clumsy fingers e'er shapen'd that thought; Two syllables outlined-of some broken name- Whisper them softly-there's no one to blame. Whisper them softly-the rest are entombed In a heart that is broken, a soul that is doomed; I would not awaken that sorrow again By a Ford rudely spoken, or a thought to give pain. Take it up. lady, there's no one to blame, Tho' the fop in your parlor has the poor mother's name; Flatter his graces, tell daughter to come, e has wealth-and the secret need never be known. Hunt- down the mother, go blackei. a'r came,  Don't mention her sorrow, but tell of her shame; How she has fallen, that others might rise, Keep her well under till the stricken thing dies. Send love to the he ' hen. ii Charity's name, Ask God to bless Pagans in some foreign cline; But crush the poor sister; without a friend near, She loved and she trusted, no help for her here. See!  s smiling on you and on me, W 'ie the mother is praying, where n, eye may see; Take it up, lady, there's no one to bla ne, Maybe the angels will give it a name. em .   THE LITTLE CRIPPLE. [A machinist, killed by an accident in the shops, left a widow and two children -Jim -, a young engineer, and his little brother Ned. Jim was very fond of this little bi ther, and frequently amused him with a ride in the yard on his engine. On one occasion, in an unguarded moment, Ned fell, one leg being crushed under the  wheel. The leg was amputated, and he lived but two years after the occurrence. The little fellow,.going about-on his crutches, became a general fitvorite, and his sad death occasioned universal sorrow.] in a city of the prairie, where uncertain waters flow, -J-nds a modest little cottage, that the winter winds well know; lihe. and there a ragged clapboard, or an idle hinge was seen, But withio that shatter'd cottage, all was wondrous neat and clean. Everybody knew the cottage, for the little children said, Here lived a widowed mother, and her little cripple-Ned. On this night the storm was raging, and the prairie winds were wild, As the mother, pale with watching, smooth'd the death bed of her child. It'was not some fair fine lady, with white and jewelled hands, And a host of cringing lackeys, to obey her least commands; But a poor mechanic's widow, robbed by death of every joy, Who had known no other fortune, save this little crippled boy. In the corner were the crutches, and the toys he put away, For he often tried to follow little' comrades at their play. On the bed he lay there sleeping, as the mother thought a prayer, For she could not speak for weeping, and she knew that God was there.   .   150    Romance and Humor of the Road. She would not have him waken, and she dared not think him dead, So she knelt and prayed in whispers, for her little crippled Ned. Prayed that God would spare the suff'rer, and take herself instead- But the little lips now open--'i Mother, here is little Ned." "I've been talking with the angels, and they took the pain away "- Thus the mother's prayer was answered, thus she knew he could not stay. "But they said they'd come to-morrow. O! dear mother, don't you cry, But give Ned a drink of water, for I'm going by and by." With nervous step she hastened, to take up the tea cup near; And the waiting water trembled, as it caught the falling tear. A mouthful feebly swallowed,-"Mother, where is brother Jim, When he comes from work, please tell him, Ned left good-bye for him." t The door is softly opened, and the brother enters there,  But he hears no voice of welcome, only sobs and words of prayer. Then the two kneel down together, in the presence of the dead, ,And pray God that yet in Heaven, they may meet their little Ned.   THE SIDE-TRACK. Division. Headquarters-An -Odd Town-Its Peculiarities and Attractions-Its Inquisitive People-Its Educational Institu- tions-Its Boston Proclivities-lts Typical Merchant, gEt., Etc.- That "Billiarde Order J'-ow To Detect Themn-One Commis- siox--The Geolog ized Brakemanz- Up and Down the -Road. HE AUTHOR finds a few cars that do not properly belong  on his train, and  he deems it best to "side-track" them here. He is fortunate in being his own superin- teDndent, as well as dispatcher and  conductor- impervious as to "flags" -perfectly independent as to." orders." DIVISION HEADQUARTERS. Galesburg is in Knox County, Illinois, on the C., B. & Q. R. R., where the branches to Peoria and Lewiston diverge from the direct line to Quincy. There are also side-tracks leading from the same line, to the various churches of the city. It is one hundred and sixty-five miles from  the village of Chicago, with which it is connected by an umbilical   152   Romance and Humor of the Road. cord. It is forty-five miles from Burlington,. a thriving borough, that owes its existence to Gales- burg. It is fifty-three miles from Peoria, whose distilleries draw their inspiration from this College City. It is one hundred miles from Quincy,. whose daily press relies altogether upon Galesburg, for its supply of scan. mag. and elopements. It has four- teen churches, with as many roads to heaven; and twenity-two saloons, with as many roads to hell, and the trains seem to be running very full both ways. It has two hundred journeymen lawyers, and four hundred apprentices; five hundred doctors, forty- two physicians, and one hundred and eighty medical students-J - t, as yet, only one grave- yard. Since the conltrabands have commenced to vote, and run for office, measures have been taken to start a new cemetery inll McChesneyville, a subur- ban village, where the proprietor has already- con- structed vaults in anticipation of increased emigra- . tion. Galesburg is also the residence of Dr. Chase, the celebrated manipulating physician; as well as numer- ous representatives of the "Home Guards," who pro- tected the city when Morgan's raiders were in Ohio.  The population of Galesburg is about 13,000, including white and - colored negroes, Swedes, and college students. Many railroad em- ployes exist here, periodically; paying enormous rents in hired houses, or boarding with each other. Others find pleasant accommodations at the Ameri-    The Side Track.      153 can House, where Messrs. Ryan & Son are all attention. On Sunday, they sit in the superintend- ent's church one hour, in order to save a black mark, and in the afternoon they smoke large pipes, or mend their old clothes. Their leisure in week- days is spent in answering garnishees, or reading the epistolary efforts of Messrs. Hawley and Kingsbery. They are regarded as the natdral prey of landsmen, and are subjected to all manner of imposition. They pay more for their, groceries and dry goods than any other class; and are besieged at the pay- car by'all the. little retailers of the place. The aris- tocracy looks down upon them as vagabonds and scalawags, and the Puritan element draws in -its skirts as it hurries by them on the street. The ," Union Hotel," Mr. H. W. Belden, proprie- tor, is one of Galesburg's grandest achievements. It is elegantly furnished; has all the modern improvements, and is complete in all its appoint- merrts. Mr. Belden is one of the most widely known and popular caterers in the Northwest; and with the genial Hopkins as his right bower,there are no two men in the country who canl excel them in hotel management. While at the head of the "Passenger House," at the depot, both endeared themselves to hosts of railroad men, who still cling to them with all the fervor of the old love. Galesburg is owned in part by a denominational. institution, known as Knox   College. It was founded by the Puritans, but is now run upon the "              -   154   Romance and Huimor. of the Road. European plan -four professors to every student. It has fifty pupils, " instructed" at an annual expense of $20,000. The faculty and trustees are all from Boston. All local laws are formed with a view to conciliate the youths who attend this crowded institu- tion, and all classical persons connected therewith, and hailing from "The East," are exempt from local taxation. Lombard University, another educational institution of Galesburg, stands higher than Knox, being situated on an eminence directly east of the city. It is presided over by gentlemen who allowed themselves to become westernized, and encourages neither perfumery, buffoonery, Boston humbugs, or fast horses. Indeed, Galesburg is a seat of learn- ing, though the bench is never full. Galesburg has one bowling alley, also; owned and operated by Mr. Nels. Swenson, a Swedish exile. Mr. Swenson is a nephew of Queen Catharine, of Sweden, and meeting with misfortune in this country, was forced to sell his jewels to obtain mean' for the establishment of this magnificent enterprise. It connects with sun- dry other alleys, all leading to places of amusement. Boone's avenue is considered one ofthebest drives of the city. It connects Conner's saloon with Stoddard's blacksmith shop, and the line of communication is seldom interrupted. It also affords a .place of refuge to thirsty owls, when other avenues are closed. We are the oddest little town in the State of Illi- nois; at least, if there be other as odd little towns,   The Side-Track.     155 they are not odd in the same way. We number, as has been stated, some- 13,000 souls, and of-course each soul knows every other soul's business. Defy, not public opinion, but public curiosity, and you are undone. Any soul or body whose business were not known, would be looked upon as a suspi- cious person; a disloyal subject; a mysterious mon- ster; a helot to be trampled on; a pariah to be cast out; acagotto be excommunicated; anot-one-of-us to be unfraternized with, and to be had nothing to do with by our whole communal, indigenous population. If your business'- tht is, your goings-in; your comings-out; your saloon-frequentings or non-fre- quentings; your usual choice of beverage, in regard to milk, beer, tea, whisky, or gin; at what hours you take them, and at what hours you don't; the approximate amount of your means ; your prefer- ence for such persons; your dealings with such shops; your daily pursuits; the direction of your walks, and their expected duration, and whether they have turned out satisfactorily or otherwise. If all this and twenty times more be known or knowable to our 13,000 souls you will do--you pass muster-you are one of us. Tobe thus accepted as an"adopted citizen, it is not necessary that you be enormously rich, highly moral, nobly virtuous, or fascinatingly amiable. But it is necessary that you appear before our world with a clear individuality, which may be discussed and gossipped about; and not with an inscrutable intangi-   156   Romance and Humor of the Road. bility which would pretend to set at defiance our Paul and Pauline Prys. Instead of making a secret of anything, you must communicate multifarious informnation, before people have had time to ask it, by question direct. Where you bought this new coat, what you did with the old one; what you are going to have for dinner to-day, and to-morrow; where you are going next week; why you go to the devil's church, and why you do not attend the church that has no devil; who told you such and such scraps of news. When you make up your mind to marry, you must ask the town's consent, before the lady's. ' When you change your maid, give the town warning first, and then the domestic. For inquisitiveness, we may challenge a rigid comparison with the inhabitants of any other town in the great State of Illinois. We know precisely what you are going to do, as soon as you have enter- tained the slightest notion of doing it; we know exactly what. you think, before the first vague thought has entered your own head. And yet the climate is salubrious, and the streets are lighted with gas. To the capitalist or mechanic Gtalesburg offers unparalleled inducements. A competing line of railway has been projected, known as the "CoUrt Creek"--part creek and part road- designed as a popular thoroughfare for ward poli- ticians, and small capitalists, anxious to invest the means of others. There are three newspapers in the place, representing as many varieties of Repub-   The Side- Track.      157 licanism; each of which has the largest circulation of any paper in the State. The aggregate amount of brains (both crude and cultivated,) in the editin' business in. Galesburg, exceeds that possessed by any other city in the Northwest. At the age when Galesburg babes take to running under horses' heels, they are sent for a portion of the day   to  school houses, where high-salaried officials are employed to teach discipline. When a little older, it is the parents' fault if they do not get some little schooling, and preparatory rasping off of their roughest outside husks at the magnificent college buildings which adorn the place.  In arny other town, any man or woman may turn school- master or mistress; but here, no person under forty years of age and without a diploma from some respectable college can " instruct"-even when thus fortified, they are not by any means their own masters or mistresses. They are subject to the con- trol, interference, and almost constant visits from a Board of Education. This Board, like the Board of Trustees of our colleges, is composed exclusively of men of the highest education and culture, many of whom have had some experience in the school-house, business. Sometimes an .uneducated and illiterate person is chosen on account of his wealth and social position, but this rarely occurs. The result is, most of our school-houses are two stories high. At our colleges the lads occasionally act little dramas, and recite pieces, or go through the motion of swallow- * s            r     158  Romance and Humor of the Road. ing a bowl of classical porridge presented by some official, which attract large assortments of Spring apparel. These occasions are called "Commence- ments." If you are in search of an educational market, tell us what ware it is you want. If you are in quest of a Yale or Harvard, where your son may form friendships with aristocratic youths; if you are in-hopes that fagging obediently may lead to a seat even in a bogus Congress, and that base ball may introduce to a government clerkship- don't come here. If you require a school of extreme selectness, where a strictly limited number of young ladies or young gentlemen, the sons and daughters of classical and educated people are received, with a warrant for the absolute exclusion of all pupils of low connections, don't come here. If you are look- ing out for a forcing school, where childrens' heads, hands and limbs, are crammed with knowledge and accomplishments on the high-pressure system, whether there is room for them or not, don't hope to find what you seek in Division Headquarters. It all depends upon what you want; different people look upon the same things in such a strangely different light. The report of an occasional black- ing of their own boots by our boys, and of the setting of the finner-table in turn by our girls, would make some mothers faint at the horridly vulgar idea; while others would calmly receive the news with a smile or even a nod of approbation. But if you prefer your boy to have five tongues in   The Side-Track.      159 his head, instead of one; if you desire to qualify him for the office, the shop, the warehouse, or the road, you may at least come and look whether further details correspond with your list of desid- erata, and inquire within. We have never traveled much, at least those of us who have not been in the army. We have heard of Paris and Lyons as immense cities, with broad rivers rushing past them, a long way off in the central part of the old empire. No doubt they  must be four or five times as big as our town is. Reports of a city called New York, have also reached us; one citizen went so -far as to say that he had spent two whole days in St. Louis. Baltimore and Buffalo we regard as next door to the Crimea, and a considerable step in the direction of San Domingo. Boston is our best hold. The word is stamped upon all our school books and 'kerchiefs, and is the central figure of every monogram. We have a college shipped expressly from Boston, as far ahead of the age as its age is ahead of its pros- perity. We have a music teacher from Boston, with accompaniments. Our respectable cows are from Boston; our city officials are from Boston; our railway officials and favorites are from Boston'; everything, even our meat, is of the Boston cut. We take our stimulants on the Boston plan-drink in the cellar and clamor upop the street for the closing of public saloons. Our beaux come from Boston, and our honeymoons draw their phosphorus'   nce and Humor of the Road. from Boston. We get our codfish from Boston, and meat chewed in Boston, is being dessicated iii Boston, to be used for diarrhcetic purposes in Division Headquarters. Our railroads and churches are run upon the Boston plan-ourselves first, everybody else afterwards. Everyfamily contributes stones for the raising of a Bunker-Hill Monument; and every- body throws stones at everybody who is not from Boston. The typical Christian and merchant is from Boston, Mr. Addison Bancroft, known as the "Great Combination." He has all the genius of Addison for specked taters, and the perspicuity of Bancroft, for detailing the history of his private charities and Puritan virtues. Poised in the midst of his cabbages and mackerel, he is the very embod- iment of Boston manly grace and vigor. A clever partner, and a corps of gentlemanly assistants save the concern from premature decay. We have also Madame Blowmore, from     the Conservatoire of Music, Boston, an institution that is going rapidly to ruin on account of her continued absence. She has a voice remarkable for its Boston twang, and its want of a single redeeming feature. She does spelling-book French, at some sort of a Seminary, and butchers English at Baptist Sociables, where deacon Leach, a man of rare culture, applauds. A sprained ankle is her chief attraction, and a portion of her body, like her, poetry, goes on crutches. It is a classical advertisement of rare value, and every loyal citizen is proud of the new acquisition. On   The Side-Track.           161 the charity bills it is known as the "prominent musical talent of Knox College and Seminary;" and clever people, rather than insult charity even in so questionable a disguise, applaud for charity's sake. All that portion of the city of Galesburg, outly- ing the College Campus, is known as the " C., B. & Q. Reserve," and the inhabitants thereof pay tribute to a tithingman appointed for life, by the Company, who, in return, vouchsafes to every subject, political, social and religious liberty, according to his'tithe. If a subject attempts to escape from this bondage, or presumes to lift his voice against the encroach- ment of the one man power-or if he shall ask legal redress-he is put under the ban at once, and all law is put aside. He is expelled from the royal church, and cringing courtiers are made to sneer at him. The royal hat no longer bows to him on the street, and he is made to walk in the dust of the royal chariot. Still we enjoy many of the results of civilization, which are common to the world in general. We put the best men in office, only requiring that they shall belong to a certain political party. We have just elected a permanent magis- trate. Not a village 'Squire of whom so many funny stories are told; not like him who, when one rustic broke a rake over another rustic's back, sen- tenced the owner to pay the value of the rrake it had broken. But an old soldier, a dkcor4, of gentle- manly address, conservative opinions, and thought-   162   Romance and Humor of the Road. ful mien, who paces our Grand Square to and fro, as if the weight-of empire rested on his shoulders. In the street our houses play at odd and even, ranging themselves on either side, like schoolboys at a game of prisoner's-base. The author is not informed as to how we manage about odd or even houses which have no opposite partners to corres- pond to them in the edificial country-dance. Per- haps there is a depot or pound, where unmatched houses are kept in limbo till called for. We have one educational institution, however, which is eminently Western in its character. This is a Commercial College, with Prof. F. R. Poole as principal and proprietor. Here young ladies and gentlemen are trained for business pursuits, and are never questioned as to the place of their birth, how many fathers they may have had, or to what church their grandmothers. belonged. We have also a "Hygiene Home," where rain water is caught and made to exhaust itself, as well as a few long and short-haired patients, who have the pa- tience to wrestle with the science of Hydrostatics in tin pans. This institution has charge of the morals of the neighborhood, and feeds its patients on liquid gossip and adulterated slander. We have also Mr. William Despane, playwright and dram- atist. He has just successfully produced the do- mestic drama entitled "Anthony and Cleopatra," and has another in Chambers. We have but three citizens who are not from Boston. Mr. Leonard   The Side-Track. ,.     163 Miller, who gets up elegant masquerades and balls, quite in opposition to the Boston theory; Mr. Mc- Cutcheun, who concocts and purveys mint-juleps and cobblers, contrary to the spirit of Boston mo- rality, and Mr. Ben. Saunders, our railroad barber. This gentleman refuses to"-shav: ,any individual who wears the Boston mutton-chop whisker, since the veriestv rogues assume that and similar dis- guises. We have also McMillen, the great photo- graph artist, and proprietor of the Magic Lantern. He is at all times ready to change your views upon any given subject. Ed. and Charlie Maple, of the firm of Maple & Father, adorn the place--sprigs of a noble old tree, the dryest limbs in the entire outfit. These legitimate and varied attractions place Galesburg far in advance of its rivals. It is division headquarters of the C., B. & Q. Railway, and the residence of its superintendent. It is the present abode of the author of this excellent volume, and offers especial inducements to railroad men. THAT   BTLLTAR.) ORDER." When it was proposed to setup a billiard table in the city of Galesburg, the Puritan element set up a crytof ho hohorror. Petitions were circulated, prayingthe authorities to prevent this outrage upon a religious community. Every little dealer in dry goods, boots and shoes, and cheese, who wanted the "religious " trade, signed it. Every little political   164   Romance and Humor of the Road. bantling who wanted the " religious " vote, signed that petition. Every old fogy who drank his whis- ky in a dark cellar, signed it; every little whiffet who expected to marry into a 't religious"? family, signed that petition, until hundreds of names of people, who had never seen a billiard table, and who were' totally ignorant of the game, were ob- tained. Then followed an " ordinance,"*forbidding billiards, whisky, rum and gin. No one was to be allowed to keep even beer "on hand" for pur- poses of sale or consumption. Most of these sign- ers are playing billiards and drinking whisky for consumption and weak lungs, in the city of Gales- burg to-day-for the tide has turned, leaving them high and' dry, of course. But the infection spread to the depot, and up went the famous "billiard order," in the superin- intendent's own hand. His Excellency did not, wish to dictate to free men, but if any employee was seen to enter a billiard room, or saloon of any kind, it would be deemed a sufficient cause-and- so-forth, or words to that effect. The order may be seen in large print, to-day, hanging over the immaculate Hawley's nose. Sacriligious spiders have woven webs over these ponderous words, and unseemly' dust conceals the polish of that elaborate frame. So the office boy starts a gymnasium in the freight-house, a shooting-gallery in his cellar, and a local telegraph battery of beer--and the morale of the presence is preserved.   The Side- Prack.     165 A little incident may explain all this. A certain party called upon the superintendent and suggested that an individual named Milton, who wrote a "religious " book, also said that you can have no great civilization in any land where men are co- erced in all actions of their life. He asked the superintendent if he believed in the system of coer- cion so completely that if a man would not drink or play billiards for ten years, because the law would not let him, he would be a temperance man thereafter. The superintendent said he did.- ' Sup- pose you make a law so perfect that he would not be guilty of any misdemeanor whatever, would you not consider that better still?" He said he would. "Suppose you make a law so perfect that he shall rise, retire, labor regularly, read his Bible every day in his bedroom, and go to church twice a day every Sunday, engage in no immoral conver- sation, and be subject to no temptations--would not that be the perfection of your system?"He admitted that it would. "Well, my friend," con- cluded this impudent party, " if you will go up to Joliet you will find hundreds of men there, living- under your system, and if one of them escaped to- morrow, and your house was burned, he would be the first man you would arrest." The next day that party received a note inviting him to return his pass. It should be added, for the benefit of railway men who are not in prison, that Joliet is the loca- tion of the Illinois Penitentiary.   166   Romance and .Humor of the Road. HOW TO DETECT THEM. [BY AN OLD CONDUCTOR.] When the Fall season fairly sets in, the mat- rimonial market is buoyant, and hundreds of miss-guided young men, rush into the holy estate. A more than usual number of wedding tourists are noticed by conductors on different railroads. Of course, it is not on account of being ashamed of each other, that they try to disguise their situ- ation, but simply to avoid being criticised and remarked upon by profane strangers. Thus they lay the fond unction to their souls, that they are traveling in cog.! But, good gracious! how badly fooled they are. It is one of the easiest things in the world, to the careful eye, to tell precisely how many days, or even hours, they have beenspliced. They can sometimes be detected by the great pains they take to appear like old married people or cousins, as they sit demurely in the cars. In many cases their ' - dress in part exposes them--it is so apropos to the, o ca sion, being neat, symmetrical, and bran new. In case6s where the parties have good taste, there 'is no gaudiness or flub-dubbing about their attire. All ? glitter and display are- thrown aside, and the city belle appears more like a Quakeress in her simple traveling dress of drab or mouse-color. Sometimes the youthful culprits engage in play- ing. at lovers, or affect a flirtation, but it is always a   The Side-Track.      167 stupendous failure. Their eyes betray too much happiness for wit and repartee; there is such a peculiar softness and tenderness in their confidential whispers, and such a pride in the possession of each other, that none around them are deceived. It is generally the case, that the- bridegroom makes the discovery first, and throws his arm carelessly around the shoulders of his wife, as much as to say defiantly to the envious, "Who's afraid? Who knows but we have been married many years?"Not know? The guilty slyness in the way that arm  steals, round, first on the seat-back, then gradually closer, while the bride evinces a silent pleasure as she acquiesces in a very unperceiving way.  Indeed it is she who I 4el --^-outof the bag, most quickly. The narrow gauge seats are most preferable to the broad gauge, and if you sit on the seat back of them, you will observe at first that the lady's shoulders are not even - they incline just a little to her part- ner.- After traveling in this position a few hours, her neck gets as limber as a washed paper collar, and her head gravitates to the broad shoulders of her husband, and there it nestles innocently and- confidingly, in the repose of honest, pure, and truthful love. Ato times, in spite of all precautions, a tress or two of her golden locks will get loose and drop on her shoulder. But it almost'seems that there is order and neatness in their very disor- der and abandon. So they go, fancying themselves lost in the ,.   168   Romance and Humor of the Road. crowd-unnoticed, unknown; with their secret locked up in ,their own palpitating bosoms. Poor young people! , ON  COMMSSION. [A CONDUCTORS COMPLAINT.] I wish to ask what I am to do for the abatement of a certain nuisance, to which I am much exposed, The question is one of those which I feel sure that nobody on earth can answer, for which reason I am the more deeply impressed with the necessity. of putting it. Mine is the case of A. B., a single man, who says he is not likely to marry. His age he refuses to state with precision; but admits that it is not under thirty-nine. Is a passenger conductor, and not a wealthy man. To make the most of his income, he has to exercise the most rigid economy. He resides at a station on a road running into the city of New York-you may call it Poughkeepsie or Salamanca. It was his fate to have been born and reared in that town, and to be personally acquainted with every man, woman and child in it. Is quite sure that he never takes his train from that station without being loaded with commissions. Cannot be de- ceived in his recollection on that subject. Said commissions have on several occasions broken his peace, and deprived him of the liberty of action, to which he considers himself by law entitled.   The Side-Track.      169 He thinks it may be true, that as a general rule, a. little commission taken singly is a trifle ; but that little commissions become onerous by reason of their multitude and variety. He doubts whether a conductor starting out on his run, be not an ass when he permits his panniers to be laden to his bwn discomfort. His particular misery is, that he him- self knows not how to avoid being such an- ass, unless he be content that, all his friends should regard him as a good-for-nothing, disobliging cur- mudgeon. He has thought of quitting Pough- keepsie or Salamanca forever; he has also thought of never quitting it for half an hour. The origin of A. B.'s grievance is to be found, perhaps, in his- possession of a certain reputation for the scrupu- lous exactness, which is not uncommon in bache- lors; and for good nature, as well as a conscien- tious desire to discharge himself honestly of any trust reposed in him. He has known young friends to keep a commission in .reserve three weeks in order that it might be his felicity to execute it. A. B. further declares that he has one day of his own between trips. On this day he is visited by numerous friends--each with a commission. First, a small boy brings a note saying that Mrs. Wil- liams would be glad to -see Mr. A. B. at once, on important business. After the ascent of a steep and not undefiled staircase, the deponent states that he knocked at Mrs. Williams' door, which was in- scribed with her name on a brass plate. After a 12   170   Romance and Humor of the Road. sufficient number of courtesies had passed, depo- nent made allusion to the " important business," upon which there ensued, as nearly as he can re- member, the following conversation: Mrs. Williams: L"O, my dear Mr. A. B., you have no idea how anxious I am that nothing will prevent you from taking your train to-morrow. You know the state poor little Hofer is in. His second teeth, I may say, are all breaking out in a mob over the roof of his mouth, instead of coming up in file out of his gums. You know Mr. Tee- ther in New York?" A,.B.: "The great dentist?' Mrs. Williams: " O, yes. You know every one. I have been told that if I would take a model of my Hofer's mouth in wax, and send it to him, lihe can -have an instrument made which, when worn, will restore the teeth to order. I have already taken the model, and it will carry very nicely in this little tin box. How long are you in New York?" A. B.: "One day." Mrs. W.: "I am sure he can have it made in time, at least, for your next trip. I wish Hofer was here, that you might look into his mouth, then you would know how to explain it e cftly." Deponent further states that, having parted with this lady, with a promise to fulfil her wish, and the model of Hofer's mouth in his pocket, he called next upon Mrs. Ferguson. A. B. deposes that a. 1-   The Side-Track.      171 discharge of cannon could not have startled him more than the production of a fragile box of card- board, which' seemed to be about a foot and a half high, and of the same circumference-a muff and tippet box--which she placed sideways before him on a chair, and which she declared would take up no room at all in his car. That it was simply a. muff and tippet that a relative in New York had commissioned her to send by the first opportunity. A. B.: "Pardon me, madam, but would it not be better to send  it by express. I should be- obliged to carry it about loose." Mrs. F.: "I dare not trust those rough express- men, they are so careless. I should not object to. your carrying it loose, if you will. be sure and not lose it." (After-thought, expressed, with a sweet smile.) "It can sit on your knee." A. B. felt bound to smile amiably, and further deposes that he took the muff and tippet, and was under the necessity of paying the expressage on the parcel out of his own pocket. Mr. and Mrs. Comstock were next visited. This married couple had been resident during  three years in my, station. Mrs. Comstock:  "Ah, ves, to-morrow is your day.  How I wish ladies could be conductors. It seems years since I have been in New York; but then home is where husband and children are. By the by, speaking of children, I must not forget a little commission I have to give you." ; .        .   172   Romancnce and Huamzor of the Road. A.: B.: "What is it; anything in my power I shall do with all my heart for you, Mrs. Comstock." ,Mrs. C. daughing): "O, I have only a very little, foolish thing to ask. You will laugh, perhaps, but I remember hearing my mother speak of the bene- fit her children derived from it. An anodyne necklace-perhaps two --" A. B.:!"Half a dozen if you like." Mrs. C. (playing with her baby): "That will be too many. One can get nothing here. No, two. Then my little darling will not have the pain her sister had in cutting tooti-ittle-teethums. ' A. B.: "Good day, then." Deponent adds, that he paid other visits, or rathler , replied to other notes in person and received other commissions. But the whole harvest of comm'ls- sions was not reaped. In the evening there came a note from an old skeleton of sixty-five, who seemed to be fully persuaded that cod-liver oil would bring flesh to her bones, and the color of youth to her cheek; and that cod-liver oil was to be had pure nowhere but in New York. Deponent was to bring some of that oil (which he utterly loathes and abominates). The bottle was not likely to break if carefully packed in his valise or ticket- box. The next morning A. B. further states, as he was about to start his train, he felt his arm grasped from behind, and a soft voice said, "One word, only one word." The voice was that of our leading milliner. Her commission was, that I should see a   The Side-Track.      173 sister of hers and tell her that their .very amiable and esteemed friend Mrs. R., was in Poughkeepsie or Salamanca. That trip was tolerably well got through. The message concerning the existence in Poughkeepsie or Salamanca, of the amiable and esteemed Mrs. R., was delivered to the fascinating sister in that lady's garden. Sister: "How good and kind you are! And this- charming Mrs. R., you will see her?"' A. B.: "It would give me great happiness to do so.  Sister: "Ah! Yes, yes, (with her hand on her -forehead, in deep thought.) "And what have H-" (suddenly very radiant.) "What happy ideas!" The lady darted forward, and selected from a stand, a tall flowering shrub, of what nature com- plainant (who is no botanist) is unable to testify; but it shot up to the height of three feet from a large pot, and was -covered with blossoms of a powerful and sweet, but very sickly odor. Sister: "Dear Mr. A. B., I will send it; you will take it'"  A. B.: "Utterly impossible, madam!" Sister (caressingly): "Yes, yes! You are so good you cannot refuse me. What do you say? It will be spoiled? Not one blossom will ever reach her?" (Looks very serious, calls a gardener, and gives an order in which A. B. catches the word paste-board.) "Nothing is impossible, my kind-   174   Romance and Humor of the Road. friend, for you and for me. Good day, sir. My kindest friendship for  . Quick, Adolphe! quick!" Adolphe was quick, and complainant testifies that he had scarcely reached the depot to take his train, when Adolphe appeared; that he had seated himself in a coach for a moment's chat with an old friend, when Adolphe succeeded in thrusting between his legs the detested shrub, so packed as to bear a strong resemblance to a funnel, and of such height that it reached to within not many inches of his nose. He pulled the rope and the train started. Before twenty minutes had elapsed, a young woman who was sitting opposite the said shrub, turned suddenly pale and then fainted; whereupon a man who seemed to be her husband, uttering many vile phrases, wrenched the said shrub from between A. B's legs, and without a word of apology, threw it out of the window! Did A. B. expostulate? O, no! A. B. deposes that he fulfilled all commissions as his power served, but that he had firmly resolved on leaving New York to forget the cod-liver oil. Fancy his "surprise, therefore, when only fifteen miles out, a brakeman came with a package that had been left with him for me, as the train was pull- ing out. This was a half-gallon bottle of that medicine which -was to his mind so offensive and disgusting. The lady for whom it was intended, had, with the prudence of age, despatched her order in a letter to Helmbold, to save her kind friend the trouble of a journey to his store.   The Side- Track.     175 I have set down my case as judiciously and temperately as I can, and now I ask what I am to do? What is any man to do who is in a position similar to mine? UP AND DOWN THE ROAD. I am in the employ of the what-d'ye-call-'em Cen- tral Railway; but it does not concern you whether I am  a director, superintendent, conductor or brakeman. -My purpose is simply to put down a few remarks concerning the machinery by which this great line is worked, and thereby ease my mind of a nightmare which has weighed upon it for some time. The august and all-powerful body of directors, as a matter of course, come first; but of them we can say little. They are of the gods, and sit above the thunder, and it is with mortals that we have now to deal. To the vast body of officials and employes on this our railway the board of directors is a sort of mythical 'assembly, which they hear frequently mentioned, but which they seldom or never see. They hear of them in the reports-those puzzling compilations of facts and figures which not one per- son in a thousand can make head or tail of, or they see "By order of the Board of Directors," printed at the foot of something or other; but further than this, the acquaintance does not extend. Some- times, indeed, as Mr. Brownbhappens to be travers-   176  .Romance and Humor of theRoad. ing the platform, a friend will take him by the but. ton for a moment, and with a mysterious nod will whisper, "Do you see that stout gentleman with the thick walking stick? Well, that is Mr. Pompous, our chairman." Or, C"Do you see that thin person walking with his hands behind him? That is Mr. Croesus. He is one of our directors, and said to be worth half a million of money." Mr. Brown, who is one of us, you know, will gaze for a moment with hushed reverence, and then, hurrying to the office, tell his fellow clerks what he has seen, adding that he should like to have told old Pompous a bit of his .mind about the horrid low salaries and over- work in our department. The heads of departments are, with rare excep- tions, the only portion of the executive with whom  the board comes in- contact. They are not without their cares, these directors, their lofty position- notwithstanding; especially if the traffic for a given time does not show well, or any of their transactions on behalf of the company prove unfortunate; for in such cases stockholders are liable to turn rusty and put awkward questions at the next general meeting, which must be answered in a more or less straightforward manner. Next to the directors in point of precedence cotnes the president or general superintendent. Most managers of large railways have some 'special point about them for which they are noted more than another, Some are known as skilful diploma-  \  /   The Side- Track.     1" tists; dexterous in drawing up agreements;, far- seeing in their plans for the future; not to be out- witted by the strategem of hostile lines. Others have a talent for developing the home traffic of their lines by creating a trade where none existed before; for swelling the returns and realizing a thumping dividend at the close of the fiscal year. These are the men whom the shareholders delight to honor. Other managers there are, in secondary positions, who are known as close shavers and economists; who cut down the -expenaes to the low- est figure; who are continually finding out some morsel of cheese that needs paring; payers of star- vation salaries; detested in secret by all whom they employ; who think by such penny wisdom to make up for their pound foolishness in other things., Here and there we have still an ornamental sub- manager, a mechanical figure with clock-work brains, placed on its pedestal by patronage or acci- dent ; not destined to remain there for any length of time, but soon to run down and be displaced by something more practical. The origin of our big railroad men is as various as their talents. Some have risen to the elevation they occupy from the humblest positions on the road, by aptitude, force of will, or good fortune. These are generally your best men.  As a rule, superintendents are well paid. We may compare the general superintendent in his cabinet, to a spider seated at the nucleus of his '     -  f- '*'       .    178   Romance and Humor of the Road. web, controlling from that point a hundred diverg- ing threads, and itself scarcely seen, keeping cease- less watch over the whole. But, unlike the spider, who does all its business by itself, our superintend- ent is obliged to employ sundry subordinates, divis- ion or assistant superintendents, master mechanics, road masters-to keep his web in- working order. Each takes one or more threads, and being respon- sible to the spider-in-chief for their management. To the road-master belongs the maintenance and renewal of the permanent way; the formation and alteration of branch lines, sidings, tunnels, bridges, viaducts, etc. He must see, indeed, that the line is kept in thorough repair from one end to the other. He has assistants, of course, stationed up and down the line. The secretary is, on most roads, the official rep- resentative of the company. He keeps the stock and share accounts, issues all dividend and interest warrants, acts as treasurer anrd receives all moneys. The auditor has the management of the accounts of- the, line. The general freight agent has charge of the traffic of the line, and the general ticket or pas- senger agent, the management of the passenger traffic. There is no class of men connected with railways on whom greater responsibility rests than on station agents. There are numerous small sta- tions on every road, where one man performs the whole of the duties-freight agent, ticket agent, express agent, telegraph operator, and switchman,   The Side- Track.     179 all for a mere pittance per month, and a small house. The agents of the larger stations are gen- erally recruited from among the more intelligent clerks, or the agents of smaller stations whose busi- ness talents have attracted attention at headquar- ters. From wiper to fireman, and from fireman to engineer, is the scale which must be ascended by those who aspire to the dignity of running a loco- motive. A practical acquaintance with their duties  is thus insured in those to whose care and vigilance -thousands of lives are hourly entrusted. There are no dirtier stations than those of wiper and fireman. They have to clean out the engines, light the fires, keep the brasses clean, and get everything ready for the engineer. What with the steam, the oil, and the dampness of the atmosphere, it is a difficult matter to keep a locomotive thoroughly bright and clean. Engineers and firemein when on the road may often be seen to take advantage of a spare moment to give the brass a rub, or to bring out an oil can with a long nib, and lubricate the interior of the iron monster under their command. -The -engineer becomes much attached to his locomotive, and frequently gives it the endearing name of "wife" or "sweetheart." It is a pleasant change when our fireman is made engineer. .For some time at first he is set to drive a yard or construction engine, and is not entrusted with the lives of men until his experience has been   180   Romance and Humor of the Road. thoroughly tested. The engineer is generally a sociable, easy-going fellow. He earns his money readily, and spends it freely. The healthy out-of- doors life he is forced to lead influences his tastes in several ways. He is fond of company, fond of his pipe, sometimes of his glass. He is a good hus- band and father, and whatever his wife may be at home, he likes to see her in fashionable attire on gala occasions. He himself, when he is spruced up of an evening, is a very different individual from the black, greasy-looking person in overalls, who brought you in by the four o'clock train -this after- noon. Long habit has made night and day alike to him, and he will get up at midnight as readily as at noon. He gets a good meal at home before he sets off; for the rest he takes some coffee in a can and warms it over the boiler, as an accompaniment to a few sandwiches or some bread and butter; though he is not above a steak grilled over the glowing embers as he rides along.' Brakemen and conductors occupy the same posi- tion relatively as firemen and engineers, though not one brakeman in twenty ever becomes a con- ductor, still each of them may hope to be one of the fortunate. There are two classes of brakemen and conductors-passenger and freight. A combination of vigilance, honesty, firmness, courage, and cour- tesy, is required to form a good railway conductor or brakeman. Happily for the public, the combin- ation is by no means rare. He must wink at an   The Side-Track. .    181 occasional cigar or pipe, if not too openly displayed, especially if there-be no lady in the offending car. In case of any break-down or accident, he must have his wits thoroughly about him, and- see at a glance how the disaster may be soonest remedied. As to consolidations, let us run over the great Central route, from the depot at, Philadelphia to Pittsburgh; from Pittsburgh, on the Steubenville, Columbus and Pan-handle road to Columbus; from Columbus to Union -City, and branching to the left, to Indianapolis; from Union City to Logansport;' from Logansport to the Illinois state line, and the latter point, by the Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw railway, complete to the Mississippi river, and thence onward, maintaining a midland course to the Pacific ocean. This great central combination, having its base on the Atlantic and its principal depots at New York, Philadelphia, Washington, and Baltimore, which are easily accessible-New Jersey by the Lebanon Valley and the Baltimore Central, and the latter by the Baltimore and Ohio- open a continuous avenue on a single longitudinous line everywhere from the Atlantic ocean to the western terminus of the Pacific Railway. Wonder- ful progress indeed is all this, and it may well lead government makers of New York to reflect a little upon the point, whether it is either wise or possi- ble to interdict consolidations. It occurs to me, that such interdiction is of near kin to that which would forbid the inventor to put together the parts- )   182   Romance and Humor of the Road.. of his machine to answer the, ends of his discovery. For illustration, the greater number of roads on a given line, the greater must be the expense, delays, and the higher the rates. Consolidation is but an expression of -practical energy and economy. Twenty roads here referred to are thrown into two or three, practically into one. For instance, from the Illinois state line eastward the Toledo, Logarisport and Burlington; the Union and Lo- gansport; the Columbus and Indianapolis; the Indiana Central; the Piqua-making 362 miles- are made into the Indiana Central company; and so of the entire line. Consolidations have taken the whole route from Pittsburgh to the Mississippi river at Keokuk or Warsaw, under a single name, covering a distahce of 680 miles. DETECTIVES. A railway detective got on Hod Hale's train on the Erie road at Batavia, having bought a ticket for Avon. He kept the ticket and paid his fare. When they reached Avon, the end of Hale's route, he produced the ticket with the remark, "Here's a ticket I found on the platform," expecting Hod to put it in his pocket. "Here's what we do with those fellows," replied Hale, taking the ticket, punching it and putting it in his pocket; and now I'll show you what we do with you fellows." Hale then invited him to join him at his resi-   The Side- Track.     183 dence, where he exacted from him the following confession: "Up to the commencement of the present year I have been employed as a railroad detective. Having found a more honorable employment, and by way of penance for the past, I feel desirous to making some amends to that class of men that I have -heretofore aided, unjustly in many cases, in villifying, by giving a few facts of the workings of that unscrupulous gang known as railway detecqt- ives, so as to open the eyes of our railroad officials to the injustice of condemning innocent men upon the word of such as now belong to that gang. "Any railroad company can ascertain that nine- tenths of the conductors accused of dishonesty are accused unjustly. The plan is, when a contract to work on a road is taken, to first select a victim, to suppose at once that he is guilty, and, reversing the maxim of the common law, tq either find or manufacture material to .establish the premises. A miracle alone can save him. The reputation of the men set to watch him is at stake, and they feel that it is incumbent upon them to bring him in guilty of fraudulent practices. "'One dodge is to get one to ask a conductor to change a bill for accommodation, while another witnesses the operation and swears-and swears technically true-that he saw the conductor receive money, and neither return nor punch a ticket. Another plan is to buy two tickets at the office in   184   Romance and Humor of the Road. one day, present one to the conductor and retain the other, reporting that the conductor took it but did inot punch it. In the meanwhile, the unsold ticket is given to the confederate, who will start the next day on the same train for the same place, and presents the ticket sold the day before to the con- ductor, who, if he did not notice the date, is trap- ped. It is a very successful plan, as iot hangs both the conductor and the agent. "Another dodge is this:  several 'spotters' crowd around the conductor, calling for tickets, and offering money for different points on the road. The one who pays for the point farthest off will manage to get the ticket from the conductor that belongs to the one paying for the nearest point. Some of the gang then get off at the nearest stations, leaving the tickets in the hands of one or two, who go the whole distance, giving up the long tickets and holding the short ones as evidence against the conductor. Here a case is maide, and the conductor cannot make a satisfactory explanation. "'These are a few of the nefarious and rascally schemes used by detectives. I do not say that con- ductors, as a class, are any more honest than any other class; but the really dishonest ones are often in the 'ring,' and are seldom reported. These are facts, and I could, were it expedient, give you the names of parties whom I know have been unjubtly dealt with. I have done all in my power for them, have been to the executive, and in \one case have   The Side- Track.     185 succeeded* in having reinstated a man whom I believed to be strictly honest. And I now take another step in the vindication of those wronged in the public prints. Let the managers of railroads see and think, that an evil may be remedied. Let them first select honorable men for this responsible position, and then treat them as men." THE GEOLOGICAL "CRANK." [BY A RETIRED CONDUCTOR.] I gave up railroading a good many years ago, to engage in business at Chicago. When I left my train, I had a brakeman--or "crank," as the boys llave it-who was the worst cuss on a general break you ever saw. He was a graduate of Knox College, at Galesburg, Illinois, where he had shown great proficiency in the study of geology, standing at the head of his class, though behind, I believe, in everything else. He was poor, and his limited diploma was not negotiable at the bank. His " sci- -entific course " had given him no practical knowl- edge of business, and his three years devotion to a wonderful specialty of a more wonderful curriculum, had totally unfitted him for any active business pur- suit. To 1" brake on the road" was the last resort. He applied for a position on the C., B.-& Q., and the Old Man assigned him to mv train. 1 He was a clever boy, withal, and I became much attached to him. Geology, however, was a mania 13   186  Romance and Humor of the Road. with him, and I came to think that the fellow was stone-mad. He always carried a little hammer with him on the train, and whenever we stopped long enough at a station he would gather whatever rocks were near, put them in his corner of the car, and employ his time between whistles in breaking them to pieces, and examining their insides with the most patient and scholarly scrutiny. On one occasion, as we approached Aurora, he espied an attractive boulder glistening-in a hill-side, and he begged me to hold the traint long enough to enable him to get it.- I did so, and came very near having my head cut off, for trifling with the interests of the road. My brakeman, however, declared it to be the finest " specimen " he ever saw, and I was happy in having contributed so much to the cause of science. My learned cranker was known ever afterward as "Boulder," a name that stuck to him, I guess, as long as he lived. Well, singularly enough, Boulder .got married, went into business here in Chicago, and came to live neighbor to me out on South Ann street. Love and its accessories had murdered his mania, and putting him on a new track, set him to breaking for rocks that were not to be picked up at every station. I had got me a nice little home, and my wife, who is pretty heavy on fancy ornaments (arti- cles of virtue, I believe, she calls 'em), had laid in a pretty good supply. It was a year ago, last Novem- ber, I think, when that cold settled on my lungs, "/ .! -  .   The Side-Track.     187 and some of you boys thought I was going to hand in my checks. I sat in a comfortable room, one morning, beside my coffee and toast, toasting my feet at the fire, and reading away my digestion over the last murder recounted in the Times. I was startled by the step of a man rushing hurriedly up stairs; the door of my room was burst open, and my old friend Boulder stood before me. Flourish- ing in his hand a heavy hammer, he gasped out, "I've done it at last, Comstock, I've done it at last!"I remembered Boulder as a very excitable ' man, and having learned that he had accumulated a large family of boys, all of whom were hard cases, itflashed upon me that his old mania had returned; that its insatiable demand for fresh specimens had driven him to the commission of murder. I looked aghast for marks of blood upon the hammer, for a trace of human hair on the handle. "Which? - who?- how many?"I shouted. "My son, that Tom," he answered, " is the cause of it'all. He brought it upon me. Oh, 'Comn.' (that's what he always called me) would you have believed I should have ever come to this? Cut me some ham." He sat down opposite me, put his feet to the fire, and helped himself to a good-sized piece of bread. "Cut me some ham!" he broke out again, still holding the hammer in his left hand. "I must be ,off to the bluffs in ten minutes; better take on something; may miss my dinner."   188   Romance and Hfumor of the Road. "Sir! Boulder! Bluffs! "Ring for cup and saucer! There, 'Corn.,' go on with your breakfast, and I'll tell you all about it. I was led to it entirely by that hard-headed Kerosene Kurd!" "Kerosene Kurd?" "Kerosene Kurd; Theoretical Geologist; Big Buggist; Lecturer, and Professor of Kerosene Oil. Hark, now! Three weeks ago Mrs. Boulder came to me and said, ' Sam! ' Mary Jane, I replied. "ook at Tom's clean shirt.' She held it in her hand, its front covered with red stains, holes and indentations. In God's name what is the cause of this? I asked. Tom was at school, round the corner, here, at -Bluster's, you know--Bluster's pri- vate academy. 'I wish to sliow you,' continued   v my old girl, ' Tom's linen drawer.' Followed her; looked in drawer; found it filled up with stones and dirt; found clay, sand and shells in the pockets of his Sunday jacket. On table, in Tom's room, found a book, entitled 'Advanced Text-Book of Geol- ogy, Descriptive and Industrial, with Lectures, de- livered at Peory and Saluda, by- K. Kurd, A M., M D.' 'That's what's done it, Sam,' Mrs. B. said; 'that's the book I've seen him reading, even- ing after evening.' He shall read no more of it, said I; the book is confiscated. When Tom came home, at dinner-time, we had a great disturbance." Boulder, gasping over his ham, at this juncture, made me additionally nervous.   The Side- Track.     189 "Tom, I said, you shall never more look upon that book. I put it upon my own library table. I peeped into it; I looked into it; I read more of it; it was my old professor, you see; I studied it; it brought the whole thing back to me, you know; -I bought a hammer," Here Boulder caught up his hammer and flour- ished it again, as if he thought me a geological spe- cimen. "With this hammer, my boy, I break my way into the treasury of Nature." Here he brought his hammer down and smashed my tea-cup. That's it, exactly," he cried, taking up a frag- ment. "Lucky accident. Look at the crystalline fracture. Here is clay. What makes the clay crystalline in its fracture?  "Damfing," I replied, with some warmth. "Fire! Theory of igneous rocks. Thickness of the ponderable crust of the' globe, eight hundred miles. Depth at which most of the rocks ordinarily found at the surface would exist- in a molten state, say twenty-five miles. Undercrust of the globe, granite. Here's a bit."  My old friend and brakeman took from the man- telpiece a handsome paper-weight, a present 'from my wife. "Some fool has polished this fine specimen of primitive rock," and one tap of the hammer broke it in two. "Observe," he went on, ' the exquisite fracture."   190   Romance and Humor of the Road. "Exquisite h-1 and -" "Never polish a fine specimen. The geologist, my dear boy, is most particular to show you a clean fracture and nothing else. Now, fractures are of various sorts; conchoidal, or shell-like; even, un- even, smooth, splintery and hackly. Only look into this beautiful bit of granite; at the silvery gleams of the mica, and the sweet bits of quartz speckling the solid pudding of the felspar. Quartz is one of the hardest of the simple minerals. I knock out a little chip of granite, and you will observe that it is impossible to powder the quartz in it by blows of the hammer on the hearth-stone. You perceive the hearth-stone breaks, but the quartz grains reimain uncomminuted." "Mr.. Boulder," I began, faintly. I was made somewhat weak and helpless by my cold, or I should have met vigor with vigor. "Pardon me, 'Corn.,' they remain, I say, uncom- minuted. Let me advise you to be a geologist. I -am going to the bluffs, to-day, on an excursion. Come! Ah, you have a cold. Well, I will stop exactly half-an-hour. [Pulling out his watch.] I want you to share my enjoyment. I want you to share with me the delight derived from the study of geology. Mrs. B. doesn't know it, but I've car- ried up her spare sheets and blankets into the attic, and have a most beautiful experiment on the forma- tion of mud-banks from aqueous deposit in her linen chest. I've mixed up in water, earth and shells, H          -   The Side-Track.      191 and a quarter's worth of shrimps. In a few days, when I drain the water off, you come over to me, and I'll show you how the top crust of the world is formed, and how the remains of extinct animals get to be mixed with it. But if Mrs. B. should by chance go into the closet before the experiment- Lord bless us! Do you know, 'Com.,' Mrs. B. has no taste for geology, whatever?" "As you have a cold, Com., and can't go with us, let me show you how a geologist need go no farther than his room for the study of this -most glorious of .the sciences. I'll give you to-day only an elementary lesson. When I come again, we'll go into the thing more completely. Now look here," down came the hammer on the corner of my mantle-piece, "I'll break off this little corner of metamorphic rock; the character has been destroyed by polishing-but see! what beauty have I not revealed!" "Boulder," I cried, "give me your hammer, and let me send it down stairs!" "Thank you, thank you; I shall be going presently. Never mind. Dismiss from your thoughts what I was just saying about aqueous rocks. Above the igneous you have the metamorphic-or, to speak familiarly, the mantle-piece upon the paper-weight, and not the paper-weight upon the mantle-piece." ' The devil I have -" "Certainly you have. Heat and the pressure of the superincumbent strata, have given to these   192   Romance and Humor of the Road. metamorphic rocks their crystalline appearance, though it is believed they were once deposited by water, and contained fossils of which all trace has been extinguished. Well, on the top of the meta- morphic rocks-on the top of the mantle-piece--we place Sir Roderick Murchison." "We do, do we?' "Yes; Murchison and the Silurian rocks dis- covered by him. They used to be called, along with some others, the Greyback formation." ( Is it possible!" "Yes. Here we leave certain sandstones, slates, limestones and the slates near Bala. By heavens! Corn., you've a slate top to that console table. If it should be Silurian, you lucky dog!- if it should be Silurian!" My friend and former brakeman jumped up, and so did I But not in time to save -the chipping of rather a costly piece of furniture. "Boulder!"I cried, hoarse with rage and shame together; "break another piece of furniture, and I'll break your infernal head!" "Ah, my boy, you have your enthusiasm yet to come! I'll promise to break nothing of any value. I brokefor you a long time, and was never in a smash-up in all nmy life. But of what value are these polished specimens of years, unless they show the fracture and the cleavage and that sort of thing. Well, then, above the Silurian you have the old red sandstone, and above that the-- ha! it's all fair' to break coal-above that the coal." On . ,   The Side- Track.     193 A lump of coal was suddenly whipped out of the scuttle, and being hammered into fragments on the breakfast cloth; before I could effectually interfere. "It is most interesting to search coal for the remains of extinct vegetable life. The markings-" A loud knocking at the street door startled us- while Boulder was picking carefully about the con- tents of .the coal-scuttle-when my wife appeared to report, that if Mr. B.- was disengaged, Mrs. B. wished to see him instantly. 1"Ah!" said my friend, concealing the hammer about his clothing, "the old girl has been to-the linen-press," and he rushed frantically from the room.  "Do you call that a railroad story!" "No; I call it a case of hammering it in." "Well, say, Corn., what became of that fellow?" "I can't say; I never encouraged him to call again. 1 guess he's gone to the bluffs." 4( What do you mean by that?" "Why, that death, who sets up the last stone -as a mark for us all, has rocked him to sleep!" -^*^^^,9T   YOUR HUMBLE SERVANT'S WIFE. T was my first run on the Hudson, Xnd I had old Merrick's flame; Though I won't stop now to tell you How she got her name and fame, Leastwise 't would be a slander On a good old chum of mine, Who was killed there near Poughkeepsie, When he run the Forty-Nine. Well, of course he left his engine, For I'm sitting in his cab; When he pulled out-for New Hamburg- But I aint agoing to blab. A darnation clever feller, But a little on the brine, Awful sweet on Mary Lawler, But that's no affair of mine. A boss waiter at Jim Foster's, Out of Rochester a-ways, Where the passengers got fodder And the boys-well, Wilson says There's more benzine shoved out o' there, In small, flat flasks, you know; And-as I was just sayin', Merrick was this Mary's beau.   Your Humble Servant's Wife.     195 She came down to see his body Just as though she'd been his wife, And I never saw a woman Take on so in all my life; Wrung her hands and cried-my Lord! sir, Tore her hair and yelled like mad. I've been through some awful scenes, sir, Never one just quite so bad. She kept at it for two hours, Till the crowd began to move; Some with eyes a little moistened, Some to'tell of woman's love. Then a lot of heavy fellows Came to sit on Sam's remains; Men of weight-say three parts tallow, And a. modicum of brains- Turned him over for inspection, Searched his pockets through and through, Took his silver watch and. wallet, And a locket, done in blue. *   *    *   *   *    * Then a scream: and my fine-feller With the trinket in his hand, Found two arms around his collar And his body in the sand; Then she hauled out on a side track, With the locket safe in tow, For you see it held his picture- All there was of Merrick now.   196   Romance and Humor of the Road. Where was I?"Why, right on hand, sir; He had been a chum of mine On the L( Cincinnati Short-Cut," In the year of Fifty-Nine. When I heard of this disaster I went out to lend a hand, And was ready when his sweetheart Laid that fellow in the sand. That was how I came around it, And made up to Merrick's flame; Told her now I had his engine, I must have her-all the same. Then she spoke of poor Sam Merrick, And the time he lost his life; Of the locket-well, sweet Mary Is your humble servant's wife!   MSCELLANEOUS RAILWAY GOSSIP. Mr. Henry Hitchcock-Mr. J. N. McCulloch-Mr. Jas. F. Joy-The First Rail on the Pacific--Mr. John M. Douglas-The Narrow Gauge-Interesting Items-Fulton's Encouragement-Low Fares -Origin of Railroads-Biographical Sketch of George Stephen- son, Founder of the Railway System-Railway Disasters and their Lessons. There are in the world about 120,000 miles of railway, that have cost $10,000,000,000, and give employment to 1,000,000 persons. A Philadelphia mechanic claims to have invented al ap- paratus for indicating when a car axle breaks, and support- ing it till the train can be stopped. Mr. Henry Hitchcock, Assistant Superintendent of the C., B. & Q. road, at Galesburg, Illinois, and one of the ablest railroad men in the country, was formerly freight agent at Rutland, Vermont, and had his hand injured while switch- ing in the yard at that place. Mr. James Larkin, employed with him at the same time and place, is now switching in the yard at Galesburg. Mr. J. N. McCulloch is General Manager ,of the Pitts- burg, Fort Wayne and Chicago Railway, the Cleveland and   198   Romance and Humor of the Road. Pittsburg, the Grand Rapids and Indiana, and the Pitts- burg, Cincinnati, and St. Louis Railway, and its leased lines, making in all two thousand miles of road-a more extensive jurisdiction than that of any other operating officer in the country. January 28, 1845, Col. Zadock Pratt, Member of Con- gress from the State of New York, presented the memorial of Asa Whitney, for aid in the proposed construction of a National Railroad, connecting the Atlantic and Pacific. Col. Pratt, in his remarks, said that he believed that the project, though a stupendous one, was feasible, and that once completed and properly managed, the road would be- come the great highway of nations. Mr. James F.' Joy has had the active management, for some years, of the Michigan Central; Chicago, Burlington and Quincy; Burlington and Missouri River; Hannibal and St. Joseph; Missouri River, Fort Scott and Gulf; Leaven- worth, Lawrence and Galveston, and other connecting lines. together with a partial direction in the New York Central and the Great Western, of Canada. This immense business, now that the more Western lines have been completed, he has designed partially to relinquish. Mr. John M. Douglas has resigned the Presidency of the Illinois Central Railway, and the railway administration in this country loses one of the ablest executives ever connected with railway management. It is an occupation requiring high executive abilities and a wide range of talent. It imposes upon- the man great responsibilities and unremit- ting labor, and demands the exercise of faculties that grasp at once the smallest detail and the--most comprehensive sys- tem. In his management of the extension business of the Central Railway, Mr. Douglas has given every evidence that he possessed these qualifications in the highest degree. His administration has given not only satisfaction but grati- fication to the directors and company, as well as to the patrons of the road.   Miscellaneous Railway Gossip.     199 We are on the eve of a new era in railways-the era of the narrow gauge--an era of renewed activity, when every village, almost farmstead, may have its railway. Railroads of narrow gauge are coming into vogue. Wales has a road, the rails of which are but two-and-a-half feet apart, and Canada one of the three-and-a-half feet width. The ad- vantages of such railways are that they are cheaper than those of wide gauge, curves may be made sharper and more frequently, and without so much loss of tractive power by the engine. The first of these roads in the United States is about to be made between Buffalo and Springfield; and it is said that some gentlemen of Reading, Lebanon, Harrisburg, and Allentown, in Pennsylvania, think of building a two- and-a-half feet gauge-road from Harrisburg, to carry freight and passengers. The accident on the Hudson River Railroad, near New Hamburg, has given rise to numerous suggestions which should find a place in the public study of such an unfortu- nate catastrophe. First, it has been pointed out how weak most of our railroad bridges are, and it has been suggested that two trains ought not to pass a bridge at the same time. Again, attention has bedn called to the fact that a majority of the accidents on railroads, during the past year or two, have been on railroad bridges. Freight axles break every few weeks, crossing the bridges. They break also at switches that are used only occasionally., Wheels and, axles of freight cars break every day. A suggestion, made first many years ago, out in Nevada, is that each pair of tracks should be laid fifty feet apart. Somewhat practicable .is the suggestion that oil-cars should be excluded from railroads used for passenger travel; but this will hardly be practiced until, separate routes are used for the transportation of freight and passengers. Another suggestion is- that some competent authority should investigate the whole traffic sys- tem of our, railroads and devise greater precautions for the security of life and property. The Pennsylvania Central Company now controls four thousand-miles of railway line, has built a line of European   200   Romance and Humor of the Road. steamers from Philadelphia, and but for some intermeddling they would have crossed Kentucky and established connec- tions with Knoxville and. Chattanooga before this time. In another year it is believed that the Pennsylvania Central will control the Union Pacific, and add two thousand miles more to their jurisdiction. It is suspected that it will also get' control of the Southern Pacific Twenty years ago the company started with three hundred miles, from Philadel- phia to Pittsburg. They are now negotiating for the Cam- den and Amboy, the greatest road into New York city. The United States Economist thinks that in a few years this single company will have a capital of $1,000,000,000. The man or the city that would be great in his or its day and generation, better hitch on to the Pennsylvania Central. When S. W. Roberts was Superintendent of the Ohio and Pennsylvania Railroad, he invariably wrote for the press a full and faithful account of every accident that occurred on the road, and always furnished the accounts as promptly as it was possible to gather the details into an authenticated form. He did not give a one-sided or partial narrative, colored to-suit the interests of the company, but a statement of the-facts as they actually occurred; and main- tained that this was the true interest of every railroad com- pany, inasmuch as the public would learn the facts sooner or -later. and it was better that the information should be gathered from the railroad company at once, instead of being picked up through those likely to distort it to its injury. The Legislatures of the States should enact laws compelling railroads within their boundaries to give immediate publicity to all accidents. Such publicity, whether for the benefit of railroads or not, is the right of the passengers and their anxious friends-a right which far transcends all questions of mere money. As things are now, it is often next to im- possible to ascertain where an accident really happened, what train or trains were concerned, and the names of the passen- gers injured. This state of affairs is allowed to continue, we presume, that railroad officers may be' shielded from blame, and the stock of the roads saved from temporary depreciation.   Miscellaneous Railway Gossip.     201 Those who wish to enjoy the luxuries of modern railway conveniences may relish the following letter of the late Chan- cellor Livingston th his brother-in-law, Robert Fulton, show- ing the incredulity with which the suggestion of the -possi- bility of railway travel was received by eminent men sixty years ago: DEAR SIR-I did not receive yours of the 25th of Febru- ary where it has loitered on the road, I am at a loss to say. I had before read your very ingenious proposition as to rail- way communications. I fear, however, that on mature re- flection, they will be liable to serious objection, and ulti- mately more expensive than a canal. They must be double, so as to prevent the danger of the two heavy bodies meeting. The walls on which they are placed must be at least four feet below the surface and three feet above, and must be clamped with iron, and then would hardly sustain so heavy a weight as you propose moving at the rate of four miles an hour on wheels. As to wood, it would not last a week. They must be covered with iron, and that, too, very thick and strong. The means of stopping these heavy carriages without a great shock, and to prevent them from running on each other-for there would be many running on the road at once-would be very difficult. In cases of accidental stops, or necessary stops to take wood and water,' etc., many accidents would happen. The carriage of condensing water would be very troublesome. Upon the whole, I fear the expense would be much greater than that of canals, without being so inconvenient.      R. B. LIVINGSTON. ALBANY, March 1, 1811. In the superintendent's office, at the Providence Railroad station, in Boston, is a picture of the first steam railroad train in America, run from Albany to Schenectady, over the Mohawk and Hudson Railroad, in 1831. The train consisted of a locomotive, tender, and two cars. The locomotive "John Bull," and imported from England, was of very -sim- ple and uncouth construction, and might be mistaken in these days for a pile-driver. Its cylinders were 5i inches in diameter, having 16 inch stroke, and the connecting rods "   202    Romance and Humor of the Road. worked on double cranks on the front axle. It weighed four tons. John Hampden, an Englishman, was the engineer. The tender was a simple frame, with a platform, upon which were placed a heap of wood used for fuel, and two crates filled with similar combustibles. The vehicle had also'- a passenger box in the rear. The cars were patterned after the old stage-coaches, still used in England, and were coupled with three links, instead of one, as at present. Twelve pas- sengers occupied the inside seats, and three were seated out- side Among them were Mr. Thurlow Weed and ex-Gov- ernor Yates. - Their portraits, and those of their fellow- passengers, which the picture gives in sombre and sharply defined silhouette, would hardly be recognized by any acquainted with them when they made the excursion. The picture was photographed by Messrs. J. L., Howard & Co., of Springfield, from the original, in possession of the Con- necticut Historical Society. In London, England, workmen are carried each way for twenty-five cents a week for a distance of ten miles on the railroads. It was proposed in the Massachusetts Legislature to compel the companies to enter into the same contract with regular commuters who live on the lines of the roads within that distance of Boston.- Passengers can be carried far more cheaply than they are. When profit is made on freight at two cents. per ton a mile, there is no reason why passengers, who weigh, say fif- teen to the ton, should be charged at the rate of thirty cents per mile for the same gross weight. The passenger loads and unloads himself, and so saves the railroad company cer- tain expenses chargeable to freight. Of course the passen- ger, as be requires better care and needs the convenience of warmth and light, can not be transported as cheaply as freight, but the present great disproportion need not exist. Everything should be done to encourage the working classes to avoid concentration in cities. They, need country air, and would be benefitted by country life. If they could fe assured cheap and rapid transit from their shops to their homes, they would soon make the fortunes of the railroads.   Miscellaneous -Railway Gossip.     203 George Stephenson, the founder of the railway system, once said:  'Nothing is so profitable, because nothing is so cheaply transported as passenger traffic. Goods traffic, of whatso- ever description, must be more or less costly. Every article conveyed by railway requires handling and conveyance beyond the limit of the railway station; hut passengers take care of themselves, and find their own way without cost from the terminus at which they are set down. It is-true passengers require carriages of somewhat more expensive construction than those prepared for goods, but this expense is compensated for by the circumstance that they are capable of running, and do run, a much greater number of miles- that the weight of passengers is small in proportion to the weight of goods-and that consequently the cost for locomo- tive power is less. It has been shown that 111,000,000 pas- sengers, weighing 8,000,000 tons, have been conveyed dur- ing the past year (1854) over a distance of 12 miles, yield- ing a revenue of X9,000,000.   This gives at the least 2s. per ton per mile for the weight of passengers conveyed. Coals are conveyed in some instances at id. per ton per mile. It is to be recollected that trains are usually capable of transporting at least two or three times the number of pas- sengers ordinarily travelling by them, and that the weight of the passengers, in all cases, is in extremely small propor- tion to the gross weight of a train; as, on an average, there will be 14 passengers to every ton, and each train will readily convey 200 passengers. The cost of running a train may be assumed in most cases to be about Is. 3d. per mile; therefore 100  passengers, at id. per mile per passenger would give us 5s. 2id. per train per mile, which may be taken as about the average of train-earnings throughout the year. It is obvious, therefore, that anything beyond id. per mile per passenger may be rendered profitable, even if the passenger train is only half filled. Hence all directorates should look to the maximum amount of gross revenue to be derived from large passenger traffic, which maximum amount is only to be obtained by affording large public facilities and temptations to travel.$'    204   Romance and Humor of-the Road. The ancient Romans made an approach to the invention of railroads in the Appian Way, which was-formed of blocks of stone closely fitted together, their surface presenting a smooth and hard track for the wheels. The first instance of the use of rails appears to have been some time previous to the year 1676, at the collieries near Newcastle-upon-Tyne, England Changes, however, were introduced in the construction of the track, and in 1765 it had already assumed the principal features of railroads, including the use of flanges upon the wheels, but not an iron surface for the wheels to roll upon. About the year 1776 iron rails were cast with a perpendicu- lar ledge upon the outer edge, to keep the wheels on the track. In 1789 Jessop laid down at Loughborough cast iron "edge rails," the ledge being transferred round the edge of the wheel, forming a flange. The rails are said to have been set and bolted in cast iron chairs and on sleepers. It was not until 1820 that machinery was constructed for, rolling iron into suitable shapes fobr rails. The motive power employed-was almost exclusively that of horses. The possi- bility of constructing steam carriages had been suggested by Watt, in his early investigations of 'the properties and appli- cations of steam; and in 1782 Oliver Evans, of Philadelphia, patented a steam wagon, the drawings and specifications of which were sent to England in 1787, and again in 1794-5. A locomotive carriage was also patented by Watt in 1784, and a non-condensing working model was constructed by his assistant, Wm. Murdoch. The first railroad opened for conveying passengers was the Stockton and Darlington road, in 1825, worked with horse power. M. Sequim, a French engineer, successfully intro- duced locomotives upon the railways from Roanne to St. Etienne. In these he first constructed small tubes, passing from the fire-box to the chimney, an arrangement of the greatest importance for increasing the evaporation power of the engine, afterwards adopted - by Stephenson and Booth. In 1825 the Liverpool and Manchester road offered a pre-   Miscellaneous Railway Gossip.     205 mium of 500 for the best engine, one that should not pro- duce smoke, to draw three times its own weight, at the rate of 10 miles an hour, supported upon springs; not to weigh more than 6 tons, or 4 tons if it ran on 4 wheels only-to cost not more thanc 550. In 1829 -four locomotives were presented for trial, and the prize was awarded to the "' Rocket,' weighing 4 tons 5 cwt., built by Messrs. Robert Stephenson and Booth, which ran at an average speed of 14 miles an hour, with a gross load of 17 tons. The next year steam carriages were in regular operation upon this road, and thus a new system of locomotion was established, des- tined to be rapidly extended, and to exert a most beneficial influence upon human affairs. One of the engines built by Stephenson at his works at Newcastle-upon-Tyne, arrived in- New York in the spring of 1829. Another engine, built by Foster, Rastrick & Co., of Stourbridge, arrived soon after, and was put on the road in the latter part of the summer of 1829. This was the first use of a locomotive in this coun- try. It was an engine on 4 wheels furnished with the mul- titubular boiler and the exhaust blast. Operations were commenced in South Carolina, 1829, upon the road designed to connect Charleston with Hamburg, on the Savannah river.. It is worthy of note, that before the use of locomo- tives was established in Great Britain, or they were known in the United States, the directors of this road determined to make them exclusively the motive power, and the road was constructed in such a manner as to be wholly dependent upon locomotives. This was through the advice of their engineer, Mr. Horatio Allen, as given in his communication to the Board, in November, 1829. In the winter of 1829- 30, Mr. E. C. Detmold made the drawings for the first American steaih locomotive, called the "Best Friend," which was planned by Mr. E. L. Miller, then residing in Charleston, made by the Kembles, at their shop in West street, New York, and placed on the road late in the summer of 1830, It was a small 4 wheeled engine, with upright boiler, and water flues close at bottom, and the flames circu- lating round them. It worked successfully for two years, and exploded.   206   Romance and Humor of the -Road. Upon this same road, in 1831, was first introduced on any railroad, abroad or in the United States, the important arrangement of two '4-wheeled trucks, for locomotives and long passenger cars. The plans were designed by Mr. Horatio Allen, in 1830, and, with no essential change, his system of double truck running-gear, including the application of pedestals to the springs, has ever since been adopted upon all the roads of this country. In a very short time, the roads in this country outstripped in length those of Great Britain, and have ever since far exceeded in numbers and extent those of other countries. High grades were sooner introduced in this country than in Europe; but they have since been adopted there also. On the Mount Savage and George's Creek railroads, in Maryland, grades of 140 feet to the mile have long been used; and on the Baltimore and Ohio road, through the Alleghany Mountains, of 114 feet. In England those of 100 feet to the mile are not uncommon, and there are several from 130 to 150 feet. There is a grade of 196 feet to the mile at Sheffield, and the same at Oldham, extending for a mile and a half. A common width. of embankments in England is 33 feet, while on the princi- pal American roads it is 27 -feet. The wooden sleepers or ties on the European roads are very commonly protected by some * B chemical application. The ordinary duration of those on American roads is hardly 7 years,-- but upon English roads it is 15 years and upward. -Only one half as much fuel is con- sumed to the mile run on the English and French roads, as on those of the Northern United States. ,A word should be given to tunnels, always a remarkable feature of engineering, but especially as in the large scale upon which they have been constructed for railroads. In Great Britain they amount to 70 miles in length. In the United States there are only about 15 miles of tunnel. The longest tunnel was the Woodhead,at the summit of the Man- chester, Sheffield and Lincolnshire railway; its length being 3 miles and 60 feet. The .Stanedge, on the Northwestern is 3 miles long. The tunnel under the Alps, recently com- pleted, between Mcdane, in Savoy, and Bardonecchia, -in   Miscellaneous Railway Gossip.     207 Piedmont, connecting Italy with France, is about '8 miles in length, and at such a depth beneath the surface as to render shafts impracticable. It could be worked, therefore, from each end only.'  In Great Britain the distance run to the ton  of bituminous, coal, or  of coke, varies fronm 73 to 118 miles, the latter having been attained for a year on the Cork and Bandon line, in Ireland, the6fuel being coke. On the Baltimore and Ohio road, during a given year, for every ton of bituminous coal consumed, the number of miles run was 33j, and on the Reading road, for every ton of anthracite. 19.1 miles. The comparative running of the trains on the roads of the Western States is about 25 miles. The estimated number of passengers to the train for a given year was 46; upon the Massachusetts roads 55, and. upon those of New York 72.6. On the New York roads the number of tons to each freight train was 71.2. The rate at which trains are run on English roads, is not so high as for- merly. Passenger trains run from 18 to 40 miles an hour; the lItter being the speed of some of' the express trains; the average rate is about 27 miles. Freight trains average about/ 15 miles, including all stops. The highest rate attained for a few miles together, has been 93 miles. A speed of 60 miles is made daily for short distances. The average speed is considerably greater than on the French roads, and full 25 per cent. greater than on American Loads. -The rates of the express trains between New Yolrk and Boston are 29 miles an hour, distance 236 miles. On the N. Y. Central road, 26 miles an hour, distance 290 miles; on the Hudson River road, 24 miles an hour, distance 144 miles; on the Erie road 22 miles, distance 459 miles. The last is the rate between New York and Philadelphia; between Philadelphia and Baltimore it is 24 miles. Among the ashes and slog of a poor colliery village,cnear Newcastle-on-Tyne, in the unplastered room, with a clay floor and garret roof, that was the entire home of the family to which he was born, there came into the world, on a June day, ninety years ago, one of its best benefactors. The vil- lage is named Wylam: In the year 1781, the family occupy-   208   .Romance and Humor of the Road. ing one of the four laborers' apartments contained in the cottage, known as High Street House, was that of Robert Stephenson and his wife Mabel, their only child being a two-year old boy nanled James. On the ninth of June, year just named, a second son. was born to them, whom they called George. That was George Stephenson, the founder of the Railway System. His father, known as c" old Bob" by the neighbors, was a fireman to the pumping engine at the Wylam colliery, earn- ing not more than twelve shillings a week. Little George carried his father's dinner to the engine, helped to tug about and nurse the children younger than himself, and to keep them out of the way of the chaldron wagons on the wooden tram-road that ran close before the threshold of the cottage door. If Mabel had been a Pythoness, she might have dis- covered, as she stood in the door, lines of fate in the two wooden couplets on the road. But they only warned her of danger threatening her children while at play. The coal at Wylam was worked out, and old Bob's engine, which had " stood till she grew fearsome to look at," was pulled down. The poor family then followed the work to Dewley Burn, where Robert Stephenson waited as fireman " on a newer engine. Little George-Georgdie Steevie, as he i was called-was then eight years old. Of course he had not been to school, but he was strong, nimble of body and of wit, and eager to begin the business of bread-winning with the least-possible delay. In a neighboring farmhouse lived Grace Ainslie, a widow, whose cows had the right to graze along the wagon road. The post of keeping them out of the way of the wagons, and preventing them from trespassing on other persons' liberties, was given to George. He was to have a shilling a week, and his duty was to include barring the gates at night after the wagons had all passed. That was the beginning of George Stephenson's careers and from it he pushed-forward inch by inch upward. Of course he had certain peculiar abilities,' but many may have them, yet few do good with them. George Stephenson made his own fortune, and also added largely to the wealth and and general well-being of, society. In climbing the hill Dif-   Miscellaneous Railway Gossip.     209 ficulty, he was content to mount by short, firm steps, keeping his eyes well upon the ground that happens to lie next before his feet. It is not our purpose to follow the details of his career, though no Gossip would be more interesting and instructive. At the age of fourteen he was promoted from the position of driver of the gin-horse, to the post of assist- ant fireman to his father- at the Dewley engine. He was then -so young that he used to hide when the owner of the colliery came round, lest he should think him too small for the place. At fifteen he was promoted to the full office of fireman at a new working. At the age of eighteen he could not read or write his name. He was then getting his friend Coe to teach him the mystery of braking, that he might, when opportunity occurred, advance to the post of brakes- man, next above that which he held. He became- curious also to know, definitely, something about the famous engines that were in those days planned by Watt and Bolton. The desire for knowledge taught him the necessity of learning to read books. He was promoted to the position of brakesman and subsequently became engine-wright to the colliery at Killingsworth, at a salary of one hundred pounds a year. Heibad now opportunities of carrying still further his study of the engine, as well as turning to account the knowledge he already possessed. The locomotive was then known to the world as a new toy, curious and costly. Stephenson had a perception of what might be done'with it, and was begin- ning to make it the subject of his thoughts. The father entered him as a member of the Newcastle Literary and Philosophical Institution, and toiled with him over books of science borrowed from its library. Various experiments had been made with the new locomotive engines. One had been been tried on the Wylam tram-road, which went by the cot- tlge in which Stephenson was born He was now thirty-two years old, still brooding. on the subject; watched their fail- ures, worked at the theory of their construction, and made-,. it his business to see one. He felt' his way to the manufac- ture of a better engine, and proceeded to bring the subject. under the notice of the lessees of the colliery. He had acquired reputation not only as an ingenious but as a safe   210   Romance and Humor of the Road. and prudent man. Lord Ravenswood, the principal partner, therefore authorized him to fulfill his wish; and with the greatest difficulty, making workmen of some of the colliery hands, with the colliery blacksmith as his head assistant, he built his first locomotive in the workshops at Westmoor, and called it '"My Lord." It was the first engine constructed with smooth wheels, for Stephenson never admitted the pre- vailing notion, that contrivances were necessary to secure adhesion. "My Lord" was called "( Blutcher" by the people round about. It was first placed on the Killingworth rail- way on the twenty-fifth of July, eighteen hundred and fourteen, and, though a cumbrous machine, was the most suc- cessful that had been constructed up to that date. At the end of a year it was found that the work done by Blut cher cost about as much as the same work would have cost if done by horses. Then it occurred to Stephenson to turn the steam-pipe into the chimney, and cairy the smoke up with the draught of a steam-blast. That would add to the intensity of the fire, and to the rapidity with which steam could be generated. The power of the engine was by this expenient doubled. He had already made up his mind that the perfection of a traveling engine would be half lost if it did not run on a perfected rail. Engine and .rail he spoke of, even then, as "man. and wife," and his contrivances for the improvement of the locomotive, always went hand in hand with his con- trivances for the improvement of the-road upon which it ran. We need not fbllow the mechanical details. In his work at the rail and engine he made progress in his own way, inch by inch. Every new locomotive built by him cen- tained improvements on its predecessor; every time he laid down a new rail he added some new element of strength and firmness to it. The Killingworth Colliery Railway was the seed from which sprang the whole system of railway inter- course. One of Stephenson's chief pleasures, in his latter days, was to hold out a helping hand to poor inventors who deserved assistance. Inch by inch he made his ground good in the world, and for the world. A year before his death,   Miscellaneous Railway Gossip.      2" in 1848, somebody about to dedicate a book to him, asked him what were ,his 1' ornamental initials." His reply was, ("I have to state that I have no flourishes to my name,. either before or after; and I think it will be as well if you merely say, George Stephenson." During the war there was some excuse for ladies' cars,- 'but now there is certainly none; when all pay the same price for passage. Under the lock-car rule, all other cars are virtually smoking cars. There are many gentlemen who travel, to whom tobacco-smoke is extremely obnoxious, and yet these young men are held prisoners in these smoking - cars. If any car is to be locked, let it be the smoking car, and put all the other passengers on their good behavior. If a man will smoke, let him go into the smoking car. If a man will chew, and squirt his tobaccojuice about the car, soil ladies' dresses, let him be sent to the smoking car. Because an inveterate chewer and squirter of tobacco has his wife with him, it does not follow that he should have any better right to the ladies' car, than a well-bred gentle- man who travels singly. Gentlemen, take off your locks and put your passengers on good behavior.   THE COLOSSUS OF ROADS. Buck Norton was a cripple, Of two off toes bereft, A twelve foot leap had fix'd him, With just his right foot left. That is, his south foot yielded ' To a bender up above, All through a bigger bender, That time at "Mickey's Cove." You're mighty right in that, sir, Was never known to flinch; Lost half a foot at Mickey's, But never gave an inch. He spread some when he hobbled, Was loose, when he got tight, But once upon the foot-board, That left foot came out right. He likes to tell the story, For he's heavy on the stump; And jokes about mementoes, Of that rather famous jump. How he engineer'd it thro', sir, And liked to kick the pails; When his right foot got in limbo, And his left foot gave leg bail.   The Colossus of Roads.      213 No flag was swung at Mickey's, And the freight was coming blind; He put his best foot for'ard, And came out a foot behind. When the toes began to heel, sir, He put that best foot down, And swore they'd keep on workin', Wherever they were thrown. For pn lazy bones were ever Known to hang about his train; And dead broke as now they were, sir, They would live somehow again. His left knee somehow weakened, When he tried to say his prayers; And the other out of practice, So he stopped them for repairs. Since they fell out there at Mickey's, They don't fall in quite so strong; The left seems short of feeling, And the right feels much too long. Not on his last legs yet, sir, Though his rivals tried a ruse; Gave out that he was dying, Just to fill Buck Norton's shoes. They put their own foot in it, For Hammond said to Moore: "There's more behind his nozzle, Than there ever was before."   214-   Romance and aHumor of the Road. "With one foot on his engine, And the other on the land; We'll call him our Colossus Of Roads-you understand?" To foot it up, our Cripple Stands high, as well he may; His engine draws like " 60," And-Norton draws big pay. =- .    - 3\   DEAD-AND NO NAME. [December 18, 1867, several persons were burned to death in the disaster at Angola. A young lady was found in the rear end of'a coach, seated upright; in a natural position-Deadl There were traces of fire upon the hat or bonnet, the hair was. slightly burned, and a portion of the dress; the eyes and lips wearing marks of violence. There were evidences of rare beauty; the clothing was costly and elegant; but there was nothing to lead to identification, save a single initial found upon her garments, the plain letter' "M." There was no luggage, and Mr. John Fisk, the conductor, had but a vague impression that she was going to LeRoy. The car in which she was found was only slightly damaged by fire, and It was supposed that she died from fright. Others thought that some villain, taking advantage of the excitement and confusion, attempted a nameless crime, and she died through fear of a worse fate than death by fire. All efforts to obtain a clue to her name and history, were in vain.] There is the face, With marks of fire on it, remains of a bonnet, A piece of veil round it, just as they found it, But no certain trace. Eyes all a blot; The torn lips remaining, a half -smile retaining- Closed with a prayer-could God have been there, Or was she forgot? A bit of rare lace; Around the neck turning, saved from the burning, Charged with a clue, to some- lover true, Who knew her embrace. Handkerchief?    Yes! Richly embroidered, now soiled and disordered,  Here, near the hem,- the plain letter , M," The rest you- may guess.   216    Romance and Humor of the Road. A torn glove there I In it still lingers, the shape of the fingers; That some one has pressed, may be, and caressed, So slender and fair. A ring here you see! No name or date on it, yet love must have won it, A pledge of vows plighted, perhaps of love slighted- Where can he be? One heavy shawl, On the seat near her, it could not be clearer; Spotted and soiled, torn au4d all spoiled S ' ' * And--that is all! Under the hat, With the bit of veil round it, just as they found it, Rich golden hair,--a mother somewhere, Would recognize that! Years now have passed; And her sad history remains yet a mystery, Attempts to obtain some clue, were in vain, Till hope died at last. Dead-and no name! Was it some sorrow, the dread of to-morrow, Or was there foul play? There is no one to say, And no one to blame. "W T ,   ADDENDA. 'A French savant likens the quickness of volition in an animal to the telegraph. When a whale is harpooned, he says, the nerve telegraphs to the creature's brain "Harpoon in tail;" upon which the brain telegraphs back: "Jerk tail and upset boat." Mr. Robert B. Woolsey, train dispatcher of the Illinois Central at Chicago, is one of the oldest and best telegraphists now in active service. In the early days of the railway telegraph system, his sug- gestions were readily adopted, and he contributed largely in removing difficulties and bringing that system to its present degree of perfection. He came on the line during the administration of Gen. Geo. B. McClellan; was a favorite at headquarters during Mr. W. R. Arthur's- reign ; kept his position under Mr. Hughitt; is in favor with the present Mitchell Cabinet, and is likely to die in the old cushioned chair which follows him wherever he goes. Mr. Len. Sheldon was the first Manager at Centralia; thet Fred Swain came in, who was succeeded by Mr. lM. Hughitt, who was also master of trains. Mr. Woolsey went there as Mr. Hughitt's   218   Romance and Humor of the Road. assistant, taking temporary charge of the line. He was surrounded by a corps of assistants whose equals would be hard to find to-day. Frank C. Jones, Fred Smith, Everett Parks, Dorsey Berry, and the remarkable author of these few lines, who also officiated as private secretary. It was at this time that Mr. W. was presented thie pictures of' the employees of the line, neatly framed, which he prizes to this day. The boys lost all control of poor Jones, who after much civil and uncivil engineering, was cap- tured by another girl. Woolsey's power of endurance has become proverbial. We have known him during a rush, to stick to trains for two weeks at a stretch, without sleep, having his meals served in his office. But he was always assisted by the irre- pressible, cigar. Twenty cigars a day was his common average; his only vice; and if he had a fault, it was in never having but one cigar and that always in position. He knows the calibre of every engine on the I. C. R. R., what each can do, is familiar with every foot of the road, and never deserts his post. In doing honor thus to an old friend, the author regrets that he has but. a feeble joke to record on "Bob." The last time we saw him was at, Centralia. Things had got mixed up there, and Bob wans ordered out of Chicago to straighten things out. There was no one else to bring order out of the chaos. We found him seated in the old familiar place, behind, we were about to say, the same old cigar. On the wall hung a placard with the words "No smoking allowed" in glittering capitals. Bob's cigar was pointed directly at that placard. The manager directed his attention to it. "Sir," said Bob, "I am here under orders from Chicago, to straighten out these trains. It takes   Addenda.        219 steam, and you can't get up steam without some smoke. If you had learned this before, I wouldn't have been sent for. Now, you can either take down that sign, or get somebody else to ruIl these train s." That signl was taken. down, and the rule ended in smoke. At Chicago a private wire extends to Mr. Woolsey's private residence on Ellis Avenue, con- necting him at all times with the railway wires. The company is well aware that every convenience should be placed at the disposal of so important an assistant. The author goes out of his way to give a word in regard to Mr.. . C Berry, the efficient train master of the Illinois Central at Chicago. This gentleman has occupied this position for sixteen years, and is-dearly beloved by all his men. He was an engineer for twenty-five years, cormmencing on the Baltimore & Ohio, in the days of upright boilers-the engineer in front, you know, and the fireman behind. News came that cabs were coming in usie up North, and Mr. Berry was deputized by his fellow-engineers to apply to the Superintendent for their introduction on the B. & 0. "No, sir," replied the indignant officer; you would all go to sleep." Woolsey and Berry are inseparable, having been togetherat adjoining desks for over sixteen years.    :HORTON & LEONARD, RAILROAD PRIVTERS, 108 and 110 Randolph Street, CHCAGO.     
         
       
   
