
    ----CITATION----
        Southworth, Emma Dorothy Eliza Nevitte, (1819-1899). The Discarded Daughter, or, The Children of the Isle, Vol. 1 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7855
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE DISCARDED DAUGHTER. 
             
          
          
             
             
               THE DISCARDED DAUGHTER; 
               OR, THE CHILDREN OF THE ISLE. 
               A TALE OF THE CHESAPEAKE. 
             
            BY EMMA D. E. NEVITT SOUTHWORTH, AUTHOR OF "THE DESERTED WIFE," "THE MOTHER-IN-LAW," "SHANNONDALE," ETC. 
             
                
                  
                      
                        I dream of all things free! 
                        Of a gallant, gallant bark, 
                        That sweeps through storm and sea 
                        Like an arrow to its mark! 
                        Of a slag that o'er the hills 
                        Goes bounding in his glee! 
                        Of a thousand flashing rills- 
                        Of all things glad and free! 
                     
                      
                        Of a happy forest child, 
                        With the fawns and flowers at play; 
                        Of a boy amid the wild, 
                        With the stars to guide his way: 
                        I follow some wild river, 
                        On whose breast no sail may be; 
                        Dark woods around it shiver- 
                        I dream of all things free! 
                     
                   
                  -MRS. HEMANS. 
                
             
            IN TWO VOLUMES.-VOL. I. 
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               A. HART, LATE CAREY & HART,  
                     126 CHESTNUT STREET, 
                  
               
             
            1852. 
             
            Entered, according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1852, by DEACON & PETERSON, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, in and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 
            
               E. B. MEARS, STEREOTYPER. 
               T. K. & P. G. COLLINS, PRINTERS.
             
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               INTRODUCTORY-ST. CLARA'S ISLE. 17
                
               CHAPTER I.-MOUNT CALM. 20
                
               II.-THE NEW SUITOR. 27
                
               III.-THE HUSBAND'S AND THE FATHER'S TYRANNY. 34
                
               IV.-THE MADNESS AND FLIGHT OF ALICE. 40
                
               V.-THE WILD APPEAL. 49
                
               VI.-THE HUSBAND'S AUTHORITY. 56
                
               VII.-COUNTRY NEIGHBOURS. 61
                
               VIII.-HUTTON OF THE ISLES. 70
                
               IX.-THE BRIDE OF THE ISLES. 74
                
               X.-HUTTON LODGE. 80
                
               XI.-THE NOCTURNAL VISITERS. 89
                
               XII.-THE MAIDEN WIFE. 94
                
               XIII.-THE PATIENCE OF ALICE. 103
                
               XIV.-ALICE'S VISIT TO HUTTON ISLE. 113
                
               XV.-NIGHT AND STORM ON THE ISLE-CHILD OF THE WRECK. 119
                
               XVI.-THE DESOLATE HOUSE. 126
                
               XVII.-VANISHING OF AGNES. 130
                
               XVIII.-THE ELFIN GIRL. 135
                
               XIX.-ELSIE. 142
                
               XX.-THE BALL-THE UNEXPECTED GUEST. 150
                
                
               XXI.-THE NEW-FOUND HEIR. 159
                
               XXII.-DEVOTION OF LOVE. 162
                
               XXIII.-ELSIE IN THE ATTIC. 172
                
               XXIV.-CRUELTY-A CHAMBER SCENE. 179
                
               XXV.-MARRIAGE. 185
                
               XXVI.-"THE HEART OVERTASKED." 194
                
               XXVII.-THE WIFE'S TRUST. 204
                
               XXVIII.-LIFE'S STORM AND SOUL'S SHELTER. 209
                
               XXIX.-DAY AFTER THE WEDDING. 218
                
             
          
       
      
         
            The discarded daughter, or, The children of the isle, vol. 1 
             
            THE DISCARDED DAUGHTER; 
            OR, THE CHILDREN OF THE ISLE. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               ST. CLARA'S ISLE. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           The Island lies nine leagues away: 
                           Along its solitary shore 
                           Of craggy rock and sandy bay, 
                           No sound but ocean's roar, 
                           Save where the bold, wild sea-bird makes her home, 
                           Her shrill cry coming through the sparkling foam. 
                        
                      
                     R. H. DANA. 
                   
                
               THE scenes of our story lie along the Western shore of Maryland, near the mouth of the Potomac River, and among the islets of the Chesapeake Bay. 
               Nothing can be more beautiful, grand, and inspiring, than the scenery of this region. 
               The great Potomac, a mighty and invincible monarch of rivers, even from her first stormy conquest, in which she rent apart the everlasting mountains, and forced herself a passage to the sea-widens and broadens her channel, extending the area of her empire continually as she goes on her irresistible way in a vast, calm, majestic flow of waters to the ocean. 
               At the mouth of the river on the North, or Maryland side, is Point Lookout-on the South, or Virginia side, is Smith's Point, with an expanse of water, twenty miles in width, between them. 
               The shore on the Maryland side is broken by the most beautiful creeks and inlets, and dotted by the most beautiful islets that imagination can depict:-creeks, whose crystal-clear waters reflect every undulating hill and vale, every shadowy tree and bright flower lying upon their banks, and every soft and dark, or sun-gilded and glorious cloud floating in the skies above their bosoms:-islets, whose dewy, fresh and green luxuriance of vegetation, darksome trees, and profound solitude, tempt one into poetic dreams of an ideal hermitage. The beauty and interest of this shore is enhanced by the occasional glimpses of rural homes-magnificent, or simply picturesque-seen indistinctly through the trees, at the head of some creek, on the summit of some distant hill, or in the shades of some thick grove. 
               Nothing can surpass the pleasure of the opposite, but delightfully blended emotions inspired by this scene! 
               On the one hand the near shore, with its inlets and islands, its sunny hills and shadowy dells, its old forests, its cornfields, and its sweet, sequestered homes, yields that dear sense of safety and repose, which the most adventurous never like to lose entirely. 
               On the other hand, looking out to the sea, the broad expanse of waters, the free and unobstructed pathway to all parts of the world, fills and dilates the heart with an exultant sense of boundless freedom! 
               I said that the islets of the Potomac were fertile, verdant, and luxurious in vegetation. This is because their sandy soil is mixed freely with clay and marl; because it is enriched with the deposits of the vast flocks of water-fowl that hover upon them for safe repose; and finally, because, unlike the worn-out lands of the peninsular, the soil is a virgin one, where, for ages, vegetation has budded, bloomed, and decayed, and returned to the earth to fertilize it. (And here let me be pardoned for saying, that it is a matter of surprise to me, that the attention of enterprising men has never been turned to these islands as a source of agricultural wealth; for, besides the rich fertility of the soil, the salubrity of the air, and the beauty and grandeur of the land and water scenery, these islands are rich in shoals of fish, crabs, and oysters, and in vast flocks of water-fowl. But we ever overlook and leave the near to seek the far-off good.) 
                
               Beyond the mouth of the river, however, and up the coast of the bay, the islands are sandy and poor-nearly unproductive, or entirely barren. 
               Any one who will turn to the map of Maryland, will see that the Chesapeake Bay is interspersed with numerous islands of all sizes, from the largest-Kent Island-to the smallest, nameless sand-bank; that the Eastern and Western shores of Maryland are beautifully diversified with every modification of land and water scenery; that the inlets and islands of the coast form the most charming features of the landscape. 
                
               Some distance above Point Lookout, at the mouth of the Potomac River, up the Western shore of Maryland, there is a beautiful inlet, or small bay, making up about three miles into the land, called St. Clara's Bay, by one of the early Roman Catholic settlers. At the head waters of this inlet is a small, very old hamlet, the site of one of the first settlements of the State, intended once, no doubt, for a great colonial sea-port, and christened, by the same sponsor, St. Clarasville. With its fine harbour and great commercial facilities, whatever could have arrested its growth, and withered it in its prime, I do not know-possibly the very abundance of other good harbours on the coast-probably the frequent and violent dissensions between the pre-emption freebooters of the Bay Isles, and the legal proprietors and settlers of the mainland. Lying two miles off the mouth of this inlet, and stretching across in front of it, is an oblong, sandy, and nearly barren island-rich, however, in fish, crabs, oysters and water-fowl, and upon this account a great resort in early colonial times, and baptized, by the same devout claimant of the bay and town, St. Clara's Isle, in honour of his patron saint. 
               But there was another claimant of the island, inlet, and township; a freebooter, who, believing in, and acknowledging no greater personage than himself, had named the isle, the bay, and town also, when it was laid out, after himself. So they were first and most frequently called HUTTON'S Island, Bay and Town. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER I. 
               MOUNT CALM. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           A proud aristocratic hall it seems, 
                           Not courting, but discouraging approach. 
                        
                      
                     -MOULTRIE. 
                   
                
               LET me introduce you to Mount Calm, the seat of General Aaron Garnet. Even from the bay you can see the mansion-house, with its broad white front, as it crowns the highest of a distant range of hills. After passing through the village of Hutton, and going up and down the grassy hills that rise one above the other beyond it, you enter a deep hollow, thickly grown with woods, and passing through it, begin to ascend, by a heavily shaded forest road, the last and highest hill of the range-Mount Calm. When about half-way up this hill, you come to the brick walls enclosing the private grounds, and passing through the porter's gate, you enter a heavily shaded carriage drive, that, sweeping around in an ascending half-circle, brings you up before the mansion house. Now you can turn around and view the grounds and the landscape below. The lawn, with its numerous gigantic oaks and elms, its vine-clad arbours, serpentine walks and rustic seats; the magnificent old forest enclosing it in a sweeping semicircle; the undulating hills below, as they fall one beneath the other towards the level land; the distant village of Hutton, with its quiet little life; the bright inlet flowing on to the sea; the boundless sea itself meeting the eastern horizon. Turning now towards the house, you see a succession of terraces reached by marble steps, and adorned with beautiful foreign trees and parterres of flowers. The front of the mansion is of white granite; the main building is large and square, and flanked by two wings; the house consists of three stories, with cellar and attic; through the centre of the main building, on each floor, runs a broad hall, flanked each side by doors admitting into vast, lofty, and luxuriously-furnished apartments-two on a suite, divided from each other by a curtained arch thus: On the first floor, on the north side of the broad hall, were the two parlours, separated and connected by a lofty arch, with crimson velvet curtains and gilt cornices; on the south side, the dining-room and the library were similarly divided. On the second floor, on the north side of the broad hall, the lady's bed-chamber and dressing-room were separated by an arch, hung with rose-coloured silk curtains; on the same floor, on the south side, was a corresponding suite. The third story contained several handsomely-furnished spare chambers. The wings that flanked the building were occupied as follows: the north wing had been designed for a picture-gallery, with a sky-light, but was empty and closed up; the south wing comprised a handsome saloon, opening upon a conservatory, with a southern aspect. 
               Behind the house was a green slope and a thick grove that concealed from view the extensive outbuildings connected with the establishment, and which were scattered down the back slope of the hill, in something like this order:-the kitchen and servants' apartment were nearest the mansion, then came the wash-house, bake-house, meat-house, &c., all separate buildings; below these were the stables, kennels, hen-houses, and all sorts of houses and pens for all descriptions of farm stock and poultry; and still below these, and on every side below, were barns, granaries, corn-lofts, root-houses, winter gardens, and every kind of building for all manner of plantation produce. Extensive fields of corn, wheat, rye, oats, tobacco, &c., spread all over the undulatory land at the bottom. The estate itself comprised several thousands of the best acres in old St. Mary's county, and there were several hundred of them under the best cultivation, and in the richest state of productiveness. 
               This princely estate had remained in the possession of the Chesters since the first settlement of the country, and unlike the usual fate of old Maryland plantations, the property had not only been carefully preserved, but had steadily increased in value up to the time of the Revolution, when it had reached its highest importance. 
               The estate was then in the hands of Charles Chester, Esq., Justice of the Peace and Associate Judge of the Provincial Court. His family consisted of a wife, two sons, and a daughter. 
               At the breaking out of the Revolution, Judge Chester and his two stalwart boys took the field among the first, and at the triumphant close of the war, Colonel Chester set out on his return home with a pair of epaulettes, minus his pair of goodly sons, who were left not only dead upon the field of glory, but buried with all the honours of victorious war upon the immortal plains of Yorktown. And thus it happened that the heirship of the heavy estate, with all its burden of onerous responsibilities, fell upon the frail shoulders of young Alice Chester,-a fair-skinned, golden-haired, blue-eyed girl of seventeen, the fairest, gentlest, and most fragile being that ever owed life to a stern and warlike sire. Alice living at home with her simple-hearted, domestic mother, had been very little noticed by her father, or even by any one else, until, by the death of his sons, she became the sole heiress of the vast estate, which was to prove the greatest misfortune of her life. For Alice, thus left to herself to find companionship, had been drawn into an attachment upon which the happiness of her whole future existence depended. Living with her mother a very secluded life during the absence of her father and brothers with the American army, Alice saw very little company as she grew up to womanhood, and her mind and heart began to throw out their feelers for knowledge and sympathy, even as a young and tender plant strikes out its roots for new nourishment. Their only visiters were a few quiet, domestic ladies of the neighbourhood, who, if the weather was very fine and tempting, would occasionally come with their knitting work, the baby and the black nurse, or perhaps with grandma and the two little girls, to spend the afternoon and take tea, and who would invariably depart before or at sunset. 
               The long, long bleak winters were passed in almost inviolable seclusion, cheered only by an occasional letter from the army, and an occasional ride to church, if the road happened to be passable, which was very seldom the case. 
               This life lasted until Alice was fifteen years of age, when an event occurred such as would make no stir at all in a city, but which will throw a quiet country neighbourhood into convulsions, namely-a change of ministry, not national but parochial! The old parson, compelled by declining health, had departed to take charge of a congregation farther south, and a young parson had come in his stead. The Reverend Milton Sinclair was handsome, graceful, and accomplished. It is true, you think, these are positive faults in a young clergyman, since it leads the susceptible and romantic among the young women of his charge to love the messenger more than Him whose message he bears, making the servant outrival the Master in the affections of a portion of his people; but you will pardon the manly beauty, grace, and accomplishments of Milton Sinclair, when I tell you that these fascinating superficial accidents were overbalanced by a highly moral, intellectual, and religious tone of character. 
               By the invitation of Mrs. Chester, the young minister became the temporary inmate of Mount Calm, and very much he entertained and instructed, cheered, and sustained the secluded mother and daughter. He became the almoner of the lady to the poor around. He directed and superintended the reading of Alice: introducing gradually, as her opening mind could bear, all the beauties and glories of science, history, philosophy, and poetry. And above all were her religious interests cared for, the duties of charity in its broadest sense, self-devotion, fortitude, patience, faith through life and unto death, hope within the very cannon's mouth of despair, all that is included in the golden rule of love to God and our neighbour, was cultivated in the genial soil of her soul. 
               He impressed upon her that she it was to whom the tremendous trust of the ten talents had been confided, and of whom, therefore, double would be required. That God had not endowed her richly with every manner of good-in her worldly rank; in her social position; in her domestic surroundings; in her physical health and beauty; in her intellectual power-that she might live for herself alone, or even for those she loved, alone; and above all-far above all-did he point her to the elevating truth that God had not so richly and gloriously endowed her with natural constitutional goodness, that she might rest indolently contented with even the high moral character that had been-like fortune, friends, intellect, and beauty-God's free gift. No: he made her feel that "of her to whom much had been given, much, very much, would be required." 
               And, oh! how she loved to hear him talk! how meekly she acquiesced in his truth that all the virtues for which she had been praised so much-if indeed she had any-were constitutional, and would not, and should not serve her in the great day of final account. And oh! how her heart burned to show him the self-devotion, the patience, the fortitude of which it was capable! Poor Alice, the opportunity was not long wanting! and when it came-but of that more hereafter. 
               When the spring opened, a visit from the bishop of the diocese was expected. Sinclair, as her pastor, began to prepare Alice for the sacred rite of confirmation: praying with her, reading with her, directing her meditations, exhorting her to private prayer and self-examination; speaking to her also of the times when the newly enrolled Soldier of the Cross had to take up the burthen indeed; when the sacred "laying on of hands"-the benediction-the trust was the bond of union between the apostle and his convert. 
               Oh! in after life, the desert of after life, the one 
                     "Green spot on memory's waste"
                   was this sweet innocent season of early love and early religious fervour! How slowly and softly their mutual love matured-how silently-gaining immortal life, while they scarcely suspected its existence, or at all recognised love under its true name and nature! Alice, for her part, mistook it for a part of her religion; and when she would go to church, in the most tempestuous weather, never surmised that she went as much to hear the preacher's 
                     "One loved voice"
                   as to listen to the Word of God. On Sinclair's side, he called it duty, pastoral care, &c., until one day he was aroused from his happy dream as by a thunder shock!-and he knew that months before he should have gradually abandoned his visits to Mount Calm, or obtained its master's permission to continue them on a new and more intimate footing. He lost not an hour now in seeking the presence of Mrs. Chester, and informing her of his deep, unconquerable, eternal love of Alice, and placing his destiny in her hands. The lady set him at rest at once by telling him that she at least had known of this attachment for months past, that if she had not warmly approved it, she would have felt it her duty to have informed him long ago. She knew that his affection was appreciated and returned by Alice. She was very happy that it was so. She highly esteemed Mr. Sinclair as her minister, and should love him as a third son. It was the marriage she should most of all others desire for her sole daughter. She told him, however, that the final decision must rest with her father, and advised him to write immediately to Colonel Chester. 
               Sinclair did so, conscientiously awaiting her father's letter, before addressing Alice. 
               Colonel Chester's letter came. His reply was highly favourable. If the affections of Alice were interested, if her mother's approval and consent had been obtained, if the references given answered his expectations, why then let Sinclair proceed in his wooing, and God prosper him in his suit! The match, in a worldly point of view, was certainly as good a one as Alice could reasonably expect. Alice's prospects were assuredly not of the first order. She had two brothers, between whom the Mount Calm estate would be divided. Her own dower would be very moderate, and paid down at her marriage: beyond that she must expect nothing. He preferred, however, that the marriage should not take place during his absence; Sinclair might go on with his wooing, and take care of Alice and her mother, until his return, when, if nothing should happen to prevent it, he should take pleasure in bestowing the hand of his daughter on one so worthy to receive it. 
               Milton Sinclair was happy! Oh! how happy he was! At that moment he was almost an infidel to the Scripture truth of the Curse. At that moment-and from that moment for several weeks and months afterwards-he could not-no, for his soul's salvation he could not-have preached a sermon in which was one single element of original sin, total depravity, the wrath of God, and eternal perdition. No; from that moment, for weeks and months after, his themes were Faith, Hope, and Charity; Grace, Mercy, and Peace; Peace on Earth and Good Will to Man; the Love of God; the Glory of Redemption; the Immortality of the Soul; the Eternal Joys of Heaven. 
               Milton Sinclair took the letter, and hastened with it to Mrs. Chester. The lady read it, and, smiling, returned it to him, telling him that Alice was in the garden. 
               He hurried thither, and found Alice watering her flowers. He led her to a rustic seat, placed the letter in her hand, and seated himself by her side, watching her as she read it. When she had finished it, he drew her, blushing, to his bosom, and called her his wife! his dear wife! his wife for earth and for Heaven! the crowning gift of God! And this was the manner of his first declaration of love. And this the manner of her modest, quiet acceptance. They were blessed; so blessed! too blessed for any more words! There is one moment in the lives of all, perhaps, when the fullness of joy almost breaks the heart. Such a moment had come for them now. This was that marriage of Heaven-the highest mutual love united and exalted into religion! the highest human love cemented and elevated to Divine! 
                
               There is a legal punishment for those who sever wedded hands; let all beware of the frightful retribution that here or hereafter may overwhelm those who sever wedded souls! for they indeed have "put asunder 'those' whom God had joined together." 
               They were blessed; they were happy! When loving each other most, they loved God most. The soul incapable of love, is still more incapable of religion-nay, love often elevates the irreligious into the worshipper. Love can redeem any soul; it was LOVE that gave itself for all souls! Love is religion-for "God is Love." 
               Their love was not extravagant or excitable; it grew calm, profound; soul-satisfying. There was no doubt or fear! They said ay! and felt that hearts, united by a love like theirs, sustained by a faith like theirs, might do all things! And they planned-Oh! how they planned! not for themselves, but for others; for all whom they might possibly serve; the poor, the sick, the sorrowing, the ignorant, and the vicious. They seemed to apologize for so much happiness to a world shadowed with suffering, by resolving that no sorrow should remain unmitigated, which they by effort or by sacrifice might ameliorate. There was no selfishness in their hearts, for there was no want. They possessed all things in each other and in God. How sincerely they pitied all who were not loving and beloved as they were! who were not fervent, soul worshippers of God, as they were. And this was not egotism; they were not egotists; the fullness of life, the fullness of content, the beauty of love, the glory of faith, shut out SELF-like, sin-like Satan. They thought, not of themselves, but of each other, and of all others. Their love, their piety, their happiness lit up the dark house everywhere. 
               Mrs. Chester watched them with pleasure, mingled with subdued wonder; such had not been her own experience in affairs of the heart. Hers had been a marriage of convenience, followed by an affection of propinquity and of habit, and had so far proved tolerable as the world goes. And she watched these lovers with quiet, but delightful surprise, and she blessed them a thousand times! blessed them as we bless happy, young children-because they are blessed already! And woman-like, mother-like, she busied herself in thinking of all their future interests, in seeking the influence of the most important of the country gentry, and of the church vestry, to have Sinclair's temporary appointment to their parish confirmed into a permanent one, and in this she succeeded. Then she occupied herself in seeking a site for their parsonage, and planning a model for the house; in ordering furniture from the Northern cities, which was to be paid for from her own private purse, in order to leave Alice's moderate dower entire, to be put out at interest, and to avoid subtracting from Sinclair's very moderate salary. Finally, she set her maids to work carding, spinning, knitting, weaving, and sewing, that Alice might have a full supply of every description of household cloth and linen. The bride's trousseau was the last thing thought of, and there was time enough she thought for that when her father should arrive. She did not know when that would be, but it was well to have everything that took a great deal of time and labour, such as the house and furniture, and the household stuff ready-as for the wedding-dresses, and other minor preparations, of course they could, and must be deferred, until Colonel Chester's arrival, and then they could be speedily got up. 
               It was in the midst of this domestic happiness, this great, intense joy and hope, that the thunderbolt fell! 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               THE NEW SUITOR. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           How! Will she none? Doth she not give us thanks? 
                           Is she not proud? Doth she not count her blessed, 
                           Unworthy as she is, that we have wrought 
                           So worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom? 
                        
                      
                     SHAKSPEARE. 
                   
                
               FIRST came the news of the glorious victory of Yorktown-the final and signal triumph of the American arms. There were no railroads and telegraphic wires in those days, and very few newspapers. The report, the re-echo of this splendid victory rolled on towards their quiet neighbourhood like a storm; in clouds of doubt, in thunder and lightning of astonishment, joy, and mad triumph. The most delirious rejoicing convulsed the whole village and neighbourhood for days, before any newspaper arrived with an account of the battle. 
               And the same mail that brought the newspaper, with a long account of the battle, headed in great capital letters line below line, brought also a letter sealed with black; that sped like a bullet through the foreboding heart of Mrs. Chester, a letter from Colonel Chester, announcing the glorious death of his two brave sons upon the field of victory; and, oh! there was less of the father's love and regret, the husband's tenderness and sympathy, and the Christian's resignation, than the soldier's martial pride, in the spirit of the letter. 
               Nor can we blame him much; that was a time, that was a cause in which men made haste to peril not only their own lives, but those they held dearest on earth, and could see their best beloved fall, yet scarcely wait to "bury their dead." 
               But Mrs. Chester was overwhelmed with grief by the two-fold bereavement, the fall of both her gallant sons, of whom she was as proud as fond. 
               She did not dream of the calamity, worse than death, that had befallen Alice, in the disguise of a princely inheritance, destined to darken her whole life with sorrow, while it mocked her in the face of the world with its unreal light and splendour. No! she was too much borne down by grief to think of Alice, or her change of fortune, at all. 
               Nor did Alice once remember it. She was almost stupefied by the effect of such sudden sorrow falling upon so much joy. 
               Nor did Milton Sinclair once recollect it. In those first days of bitter lamentations and wailings, the young minister visited and sought to sustain, soothe, and console the bereaved mother and sister, never calculating how tremendously, or how fatally this calamity might affect his own destiny, as Colonel Chester might choose to view it. On the one hand, endowing him with untold wealth, on the other, depriving him of the only wealth he coveted, his fair, gentle, and fragile Alice. 
               But there was one who was not so forgetful-Colonel Chester. He was still with the army, but another letter was received from him, announcing his speedy return home, accompanied by his friend and companion in arms, General Garnet, a young officer, who, though but thirty years of age, had risen to the highest rank in the army, and won an immortal fame. No doubt, he wrote that Mrs. Chester and her daughter knew General Garnet by his wide celebrity, and would be proud to make his personal acquaintance. They would therefore, he requested, prepare to receive him with all honour. 
               Mrs. Chester was incapable of hospitable thoughts as of domestic cares. One fatal regret filled her heart. She had not left her darkened chamber since the first news of her heavy bereavement had sent her there overwhelmed with affliction. Alice, advised and assisted by the young minister, did everything possible to get things in readiness for the reception of her father and his distinguished guest. 
               Colonel Chester came at length, accompanied by General Garnet. He met Alice with great empressement-for it was scarcely great affection-praised her growth and her beauty, introduced General Garnet, and, excusing himself, passed to the sick chamber of his wife. 
               Left alone with her guest, Alice examined him, shyly, with the curiosity of a woman, and the bashfulness of a country girl. General Garnet certainly possessed, in its highest degree, l'air noble et distingu. He was what young ladies call a fine, military-looking man. He certainly had a fine, martial figure and bearing, or that which is our ideal of it-a tall and elegantly proportioned figure, a calm, majestic carriage, yet withal suggestive of great reposing strength and fire. His fine, clear cut classic features were surrounded by the softest, silkiest, blackest hair and whiskers-or rather they usually seemed the blackest;-they were, in reality, of the darkest, deepest, yet most fiery auburn, black as midnight in she shade, but reddening into threads of fire where the sun struck-singular hair! but characteristic! He had eyes akin to his hair-hazel eyes, soft, gentle, but smouldering, and upon occasion, beaming with a lurid fire, or flashing with a fierce, terrible light. His lips, for the exquisite beauty of their curve, fullness, and colour, might have seemed effeminate, but for the dark moustache. His teeth were very fine, and his smile so beautiful and charming, that few could resist its power. His voice was perfect harmony itself. His manner was dignified and imposing, or graceful, earnest, and seductive. Yet, sometimes, one in a sudden, vague astonishment, would feel that he was a man who could unite the utmost inflexibility and even cruelty of purpose with the most graceful and gracious urbanity of manner. With all his marvellous powers of fascination, he was a man to darken, chill, repel a bright-spirited, warm-souled, pure-hearted girl like Alice. Yet she did the honours of her father's house to her father's guest until that guest merged into the lover, and then Alice felt and betrayed the utmost soul-sickened repugnance to him and his suit. 
               It was now that the object of Colonel Chester in inviting this distinguished visiter to Mount Calm became evident-that of bestowing the hand of his daughter and heiress upon him. 
               After a conversation with General Garnet he sent for Alice, and, without any preface at all, bade her make up her mind to a speedy marriage with the husband he had chosen for her, his distinguished and dear friend, General Garnet. 
               Stunned and bewildered, Alice at first 
                      
                        "Never fancied such a thing 
                        As answer possible to give!" 
                     
                   But then, after a while, modestly, timidly she spoke of her engagement to Milton Sinclair. Her engagement to Milton Sinclair! pooh, pooh!-pooh, pooh!-folly! She must never think of him again. Above all, she must never refer to him or their little childish engagement in General Garnet's presence, who would highly disapprove of it. Besides, there was no engagement! nonsense! ridiculous! preposterous! utterly preposterous! and let him hear no more of it. There was, at most, only a-a-a conditional-a-a-a-but let him hear no more of it! Milton Sinclair would never have the audacity, the insolence, the impudence, to presume that now-the d-I! if he should, his holy cloth should not protect him from chastisement! 
               Alice sat pale, stupefied, with one cold hand laid over the other on her lap. Her quiescent attitude deceived Colonel Chester, for he did not look at her closely enough to see the deathly paleness of her face, and the utter despair of its whole expression. He could not comprehend her feeling any more than she could understand his want of it. 
               "Come, Alice," he said, "times and circumstances are changed; there is a vast difference, let me inform you, between the position and privileges of a moderately dowered girl, and a young lady who is to inherit such an estate as Mount Calm. You may now make one of the most distinguished alliances in the country. General Garnet, it is true, has no fortune, but a name among the most glorious in the land. Think of what a marriage!" 
                
               But Alice was incapable of thought-almost of feeling-all was hard despair, stupor, torpor. 
               "There-you may go now, Alice," said Colonel Chester, still deceived, "and be thankful that your father had too much thought and care for you to throw you away upon a poor country parson." 
               Alice passed from the room, mechanically pressing her hands to her temples, trying to awake as from a heart-sickening dream. And so she passed to her now frequent post of duty, her declining mother's darkened room and sick bed. The senses, or the intuitions, or the instincts of those on the confines of the unseen world, are sometimes preternaturally acute. There was that in the falling footstep, in the very form and bearing of Alice as she glided through the shadows of that dark room, that revealed to the mother the existence of some heavy cloud teeming with sorrow, that was ready to burst upon the devoted head of her child. 
               She called Alice to her bedside, took her hand in her gentle grasp, looked with wondering sadness into her eyes-her eyes set in the stare of blank stupor-murmured, tenderly, 
               "What is the matter, Alice? Tell your mother?" 
               Her mother's loving voice and touch unsealed the spellbound founts of tears and speech. 
               "Oh! mother! mother! I am ruined! RUINED!" she wildly gasped, and sinking down upon the floor, dropped her head upon the bed with hysterical sobs, and gasps, and inarticulate wailings. 
               Her mother laid her gentle hand upon her child's burning and throbbing head, and raised her tender eyes in silent prayer for her, while this storm raged, and until it passed, and Alice, exhausted, but calm, was able to rise, sit by her side, and while she held her hand, tell her what had happened. 
               "I will speak to him, Alice," she then said. "I will tell him how you and Sinclair love each other-as you could not tell him, my child. I will show him how vain-oh! how vain! are wealth, and rank, and honour, and glory, in the hour of grief, by the bed of death, in the presence of God! how love, and truth, and faith are all in all! Yes! and I will make him feel it, too. And though he should not realize it as I do-yet he will never refuse me a request now!" She did not say all that she meant-she did not say "he will never refuse my last dying request." No; not for all the world contained would she have added the grief of those words to the burden of sorrow under which Alice bent. It was thus that she, weakest and most helpless in the house, from her dying bed sustained and comforted her daughter. "I will not speak to him now, Alice, it would not be wise, my child; but to-morrow, early to-morrow morning I will see him. Be patient and hopeful, my child! All must be well." 
               And the next morning, directly after breakfast, Colonel Chester received a message from his wife, requesting him to come to her room for a few minutes if convenient, as she wished to speak with him. 
               Colonel Chester went. What passed at that interview no one knew more than what might be guessed from what followed. 
               Colonel Chester came out of the room, banging the door after him, with a half muttered imprecation upon "sickly fancies," "irritable nerves," and "foolish women." But immediately after this interview, Mrs. Chester became much worse; her fever rose to delirium, and she was alarmingly ill for several days. Milton Sinclair heard of her state, and little suspecting the cause, came to see her. He was met by Colonel Chester, who informed him that his wife was too ill to receive even her pastor, and requested him to walk into the library. There Colonel Chester informed him that circumstances had occurred which made it his painful duty to beg that Mr. Sinclair would temporarily suspend his visits to Mount Calm. 
               "Alice!" exclaimed the young man. That name contained everything, and rendered a full explanation indispensable. It was given. 
               Deadly pale, Sinclair walked up and down the floor, pressing his head tightly between his two palms and groaning-groaning the name, the prayer that in the bitterest agony of the soul, starts to every lip, 
               "My God! oh! my God! have pity on me! God have mercy on me!" 
               The heart-broken tone of these words touched even that hard man of the world, Colonel Chester. 
               "Come, come, Sinclair, you must have been prepared for this for some months past. I did not violently and at once separate you from Alice, when I first came home; although you must have known that all our plans were changed. I gave you time to wean yourself gradually off. In other circumstances, indeed, I should have felt myself most honoured, most happy in the alliance; but we do not control our own destinies. You, as a Christian, should know, that though 'man proposes, God disposes;'" he had the impiety to say. "Come, come, Sinclair; this is unmanly-unchristian-unworthy of a Christian clergyman! Come, come, you will soon get over this. There is no girl in the world worthy of a brave man's-I beg your pardon-I mean a good man's lasting regret. You will soon forget Alice." 
               And more doubtless of this miserable balderdash he would have inflicted upon the suffering Sinclair, but at the name of Alice-the only word he heard of the whole worthy exordium the magic word-he suddenly arrested his wild walk, and standing before Colonel Chester, said, in a deep and husky tone, 
               "Alice, then, what of her? what did she say? how did she bear this? or does she know it at all?" 
               "Alice. Oh! Alice, yes! Alice knows all about it! I spoke to her several days ago! She acquiesces very quietly, as in duty bound." 
               "How is she?" 
               "Perfectly well, I believe." 
               Sinclair seized his hat, and darted from the room. 
               Colonel Chester followed him, saying- 
               "Just as soon as this affair is over, Mr. Sinclair, I shall feel proud and happy to see you again." 
               But Sinclair was already down the terrace, and pushing on around the circular avenue towards the outer gate. He did not foster one single doubt or fear of Alice's love and fidelity-it was not the last reply of Colonel Chester that sent him off. No! but he needed solitude, silence, self-communion, prayer! The blow had fallen so suddenly; so terribly! he had not been-as Colonel Chester affected to believe-prepared for it months before; there had been nothing in the manner of any member of the family to lead him to believe that he stood in a different and more distant relation to them now than formerly. Colonel Chester, upon his arrival, had met him with great cordiality; and up to this hour, had continued to treat him with friendship. And if he said nothing to the father of the promised marriage that was to have been solemnized on his return, it was in respect to the recent heavy bereavement, and consequently deep affliction of the family. No; he was utterly unprepared for this blow, and which had fallen upon a confiding and reposing trust. A feeling of indignation arose in the midst of this sorrow-indignation at his bitter wrong! Had he not been a Christian minister, inured from his very infancy to patience, fortitude, self-government, and resignation, he might have broken out into unseemly and extravagant demonstrations of grief and anger. As it was, he walked on wildly until he passed the gate, and entered the thick woods, and striking into a narrow by-path, hid himself in the forest, waiting for his chaos of thought and emotion to separate and clear. Two things he resolved on-first, though heart and brain should give way, not to take Alice without her father's consent; second, to spare no pains to win that consent-to let neither despair nor pride prevent his suing for it. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               THE HUSBAND'S AND THE FATHER'S TYRANNY. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           An thou be mine, I'll give thee to my friend! 
                           An thou be not, hang, beg, starve, die i' the streets, 
                           Nor what is mine shall ever do thee good. 
                           Trust to it, bethink you! I'll not be forsworn! 
                        
                      
                     SHAKSPEARE. 
                   
                
               IN the mean time, Alice was occupied with her mother, Mrs. Chester was better; her fever had subsided, and her intellect grown clear again; but she was very feeble. She would take the hand of Alice and press it, looking on her with her large eyes full of tenderness, compassion, and prayer; but no word was spoken between them of her interview with Colonel Chester, or of the subject that had given rise to it. Alice feared to ask, and her mother had nothing hopeful to tell. One day she took Alice's hand, as was her wont, now that she was able to converse a little, and said- 
               "Alice, I have never yet seen General Garnet-but from all I have ever heard of men, a gallant officer must be an honourable man. Send him to me, Alice; I will tell him of your engagement to Milton Sinclair-of your undying mutual affection, and of my wish that the marriage should take place; yes, before my-I mean very soon-and he cannot after that press upon you his most unwelcome suit." 
               "'Unwelcome!' Oh, mother, that is not the term! When I tell you that it is revolting, disgusting, horrible to me, I have not given you any idea of the sickening of heart and soul I feel when he even smiles on me! And they say he has a beautiful and charming smile, too! It does not charm me, mother. If he only knew its hideous effect upon me, he would never smile, mother. But I agitate you with my talk, dear mother. It was involuntary. I am so sorry, mother!" 
               She pressed the hand of Alice, and sent her on the errand. 
               Alice found General Garnet reading in the library. She went up to him fearfully, and with pale cheek and averted eyes, and with a scarcely audible voice, said- 
               "My mother wants to speak with you, General Garnet." 
               He turned with a warm smile at the sound of Alice's voice; arose, bowed, and seemed to await her commands-while, in reality, he was reading her soul. 
               "My mother wishes to see you in her room, General Garnet. Will you let me show you the way?" 
               With a peculiar smile lurking about the corners of his mouth, he said, 
               "I shall do myself the honour of waiting on Mrs. Chester almost immediately, and," added he, advancing to meet his host, who was just entering the room, "I will request my good friend to accompany and present me. Colonel Chester, your lady has done me the honour of requiring my presence in her apartment this morning, for an interview; will you do me the favour to introduce me?" 
               With a start of surprise, and a flush of displeasure, Colonel Chester replied- 
               "I do not think Mrs. Chester at all in a condition to receive visiters;" then, after a moment of silence and reflection, with a sarcastic smile, he rang the bell, and said to the servant who answered it-"Go to your mistress's apartment, give my compliments, and ask after her health, and whether she will now receive General Garnet and myself." 
               The man bowed, and disappeared. 
               Alice sank into a chair, shuddering and dismayed. She saw that both General Garnet and her father had penetrated the motive of her poor mother, and she comprehended, under all their courtesy of manner, the policy of both. Soon the servant returned with Mrs. Chester's compliments, but she was not well enough to receive them. 
               "You see, my dear General, that you will have to defer your visit; very much, no doubt, to Mrs. Chester's regret, who would feel honoured in showing you any respect; certainly very much to mine." 
               Alice arose to leave the room. 
               "Stop, my dear Alice!" said her father. 
               Alice stopped. 
               "General, have you succeeded yet in persuading this shy girl to fix the day of her marriage?" 
               "I have not that happiness yet. I have never ceased to hope and strive for it, Miss Chester-" and he advanced and took the hand of Alice, who drew it from him quickly, and turned away, pale as death. 
               General Garnet assumed a look of despair. 
               "I see how it is!" said her father, "she is troubled in a two-fold manner, with maiden modesty and rustic shyness. I must come to her relief, and answer for her. Well, as she has teased us so long with delay, and as her mother's delicate health, and the circumstances generally of the family, preclude the possibility of a wedding festival, why let the marriage ceremony be performed very quietly on this day week!" 
               General Garnet bowed deeply, with a highly gratified air, and once more approached and took the hand of Alice, to address her, but her hand sprung from his clasp of itself, like a terror-stricken bird might do; and she darted out of the room. Sinclair! Sinclair! Where in the world was he? Where had he been so many days? Why did he not come? She would have given the world to have seen him. 
               She did not know that he had been forbidden the house. She was totally ignorant of everything that had passed between her father and himself. She walked wildly about the house and grounds; instinctively avoiding her feeble mother's room, lest, in her present distracted state, she should kill her with agitation; afraid of meeting her father, and doubly afraid of encountering General Garnet, and wishing and praying-oh! praying, as if for dear life, that she might meet Sinclair. 
               By noon her state had almost reached a nervous delirium, in which the shuddering fears of the victim, and the fastidious delicacy of the woman, were alike forgotten-and she hastened to seek the very man she had so fearfully avoided: to tell him of her long engagement to Sinclair, once sanctioned by her father-of her undying love, and to throw herself upon his mercy. 
               She found General Garnet; she told him her story with the burning eloquence inspired by passion and sorrow exalted nearly to insanity. In vain! in vain! General Garnet was politely attentive, elegantly self-possessed, but inflexibly firm, and would even have attempted to soothe an anguish like hers with his serpent embrace and venomed kiss; but, half frantic, she sprung from his arms, and fled from the room. That afternoon she wrote a wild letter to Milton Sinclair, illegible and unintelligible every way except in this-that he must "come to Mount Calm immediately." She sent the letter off, and walked up and down her chamber, trying to get calm enough to go and see her mother. While thus employed, a message reached her from her mother, desiring her to come to her room. Alice went immediately. As she entered the dark chamber, Mrs. Chester called her up to the side of her bed; she saw that her mother's countenance had changed fearfully since the morning, and now a new terror and remorse seized her heart; she was about to speak when Mrs. Chester said- 
               "Alice, you look frightfully pale and haggard, my dear child. Alice, we were foiled this morning. Your father has been here, and told me all about it-the projected marriage in a week, and all-but do not fear, my dear child, you shall not be sacrificed, it is not right. I have sent a message to Mr. Sinclair to come here this evening. He has not been here for some time, and when he comes I must have a talk with him." 
               At this moment a servant entered the chamber, to whom Mrs. Chester turned, saying, 
               "Milly, mix a teaspoonful of ether with a little water, and hand it to Miss Alice. She is not well. You must take it, Alice, dear, you are really very ill, and it will compose your nerves." 
               "Mr. Sinclair is down stairs, madam, and wants to know if he may come up," said the girl, as she handed the glass to Alice. 
               Alice dropped the glass, untasted. 
               "Where is General Garnet?" said Mrs. Chester. 
               "In the library, writing, madam." 
               "Where is Colonel Chester?" 
               "Gone out, riding, madam." 
               "Thank Heaven! Yes, request Mr. Sinclair to come up, Milly." 
               After the departure of the girl, the mother and daughter remained in silent expectation. At last the light, quick footstep of Sinclair was heard upon the stairs. 
                
               "Go and meet him, Alice, my darling," said the mother, with a smile. 
               Alice arose, and as he opened the door, and advanced into the room, started forward and threw herself weeping into his arms. What could he do but press her to his bosom? Then he led her back to her mother's bedside-stooped over the sick lady, taking her hand, and inquiring, tenderly, respectfully, after her health of body and soul. While she was making her gentle, patient reply, the attention of all three was arrested by the sound of a high and angry voice below, followed by the noise of heavy, hurried footsteps hastening up the stairs. 
               "It is your father, Alice! oh! God, save us!" exclaimed Mrs. Chester, just as Colonel Chester, with one violent kick of his boot, stove open the door, and purple, and convulsed with rage, stood among them. 
               "Who admitted this man? Who sent for him?" he demanded, in a furious voice. 
               "I did. I sent for him," said the mother, pale with fear and feebleness, but wishing to shield her daughter. 
               "I did! I wrote him a note," murmured the daughter in a dying voice, sick with terror, but wishing to save her mother. 
               "Traitors! Shameless household traitors! so there are a pair of you! a desirable wife and daughter! a very suitable mother and daughter! but I'll find a way to punish you both. I'll-" 
               Here he was interrupted by Sinclair, who, turning to him, said, in a composed but stern voice, 
               "Colonel Chester, visit your anger and reproaches upon me, who knew of your prohibition, not upon those who possibly knew nothing about it." 
               "You have the insolence to tell me, sir, to remind me that you knew of my prohibition to cross my threshold! while standing here in my house, in the very heart of my house, my wife's bed-chamber!" exclaimed Colonel Chester, furiously. 
               "In your wife's sick chamber, sir, where, as a Christian minister, it is my bounden duty sometimes to come." 
               "And, d-- you, from whence I'll put you out," exclaimed the infuriated man. 
               "I will go Good-evening, Mrs. Chester; good-evening, Alice. I leave you in the care of Heaven," said Sinclair, wishing, by all means, to avoid the disgrace of a struggle. 
               "Go! what, go quietly like an honoured guest dismissed? No, d-- you, you came surreptitiously, and you shall depart involuntarily. No; d-- you, I will put you out!" vociferated the maniac in an ungovernable fury, springing upon Sinclair. 
               A violent struggle ensued. Sinclair acted entirely upon the defensive, saying, continually, as he could make himself heard, 
               "Colonel Chester, let me go! I will leave quietly; I would have done so at first." 
               And now the deathly grip and struggle went on in silence, interrupted only by the short, curt, hissing exclamations of the enraged man through his now whitened lip and clenched teeth. Sinclair was half the age and double the weight and strength of his opponent, and would easily have mastered him, but did not want the odium of doing it. 
               While wrestling desperately on the defensive, he expostulated once more: 
               "Colonel Chester-not for my sake, but for you own-for your family's, for honour's sake, let me depart in peace!" 
               "Ah! villain," exclaimed the madman, finding his strength failing, and suddenly drawing a pistol, he pointed it at Sinclair's temple and fired. Sinclair suddenly started, and the bullet went through the window shattering the glass. Chester now raised the spent pistol and aimed with it a violent blow upon Sinclair's head. Sinclair quickly caught his descending hand, when- 
               A power more awful than the judge's baton, the monarch's sceptre, or the priest's elevated crucifix, arrested the combat. 
               DEATH stood in their presence! A cry of mortal anguish from Alice caused both to turn and look-both to drop their hold-and stand like conscience-stricken culprits! 
               There lay Mrs. Chester, the gentle, patient, long-suffering woman, stricken down, dying in her daughter's arms. 
               Colonel Chester came to his senses at once, feeling all the horror and remorse of a murderer. 
               And Sinclair repented from his soul that he had not permitted himself to be expelled from the house with every species of ignominy, rather than to have seen this. 
               That ashen brow-those fixed eyes-that silent tongue, and quick, gasping breath! that face of the dying! it would never depart from his memory. Oh! any personal indignity rather than this memory! if he could but save her! but she was beyond all help now-for-even as full of sorrow and remorse he gazed-with a long, deep sigh, as for the pilgrims she left behind on earth, her spirit passed to God. 
                
               Sinclair bore Alice fainting from the room. 
               Colonel Chester fell down on his knees, dropping his head upon the bed, and throwing his arms over his dead wife in a paroxysm of remorse and despair, ungovernable as his rage had been, and, alas! nearly as transient! 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               THE MADNESS AND FLIGHT OF ALICE. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Oh! bid me leap, rather than marry Paris, 
                           From off the battlements of yonder tower. 
                        
                      
                     -SHAKSPEARE. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Now see that noble and most sovereign reason 
                           Like sweet bells jangled out of tune and harsh! 
                           That unmatched form and feature of blown youth 
                           Blasted with ecstasy! 
                        
                      
                     -IBID. 
                   
                
               THERE is scarcely a more terrible moral ordeal than that allotted in the possession of almost absolute power, even where it exists within a limited space, and over a limited number of people. There is scarcely anything so brutalizing. And it is only character of the highest moral tone that can resist its evil influence. It tends to harden the most tender heart, and to indurate the hardest. Pride rises into arrogance. Insensibility becomes cruelty. Self-will grows to tyranny. That which was mere inequality of temper, becomes ungovernable violence. Even superficial good manners, that for some time covered from the world all this moral deformity, as a decent garment may cover physical ugliness, is thrown aside, and the tyrant exhibits, upon occasions, as much injustice, contempt, and violence to others, as he has always shown to his wife, his children, and his slaves. For absolute power intoxicates, maddens, and brutalizes like strong drink; and it is so far worse in its effects, as it is not an acute, but a chronic drunkenness-and, worst of all, as it never kills its subject, and thus relieves his victims. It is true that there are but few cases among the planters of Maryland where the gift of power has been so abused. Still I have known two instances, and heard of others, where the husband, father, and master has been more terrible in his family, more terrible on his plantation tion, than any Eastern despot; and it is precisely these men, and such as these, that bring an odium upon a class distinguished for gallantry, generosity, benevolence, magnanimity, and all Christian and chivalric virtues. 
               The Chester family had been a fair specimen of the emigrant cavalier character: loyal, brave, and generous, but rash, excitable, and extravagant to the last degree; a union, or, rather a discord, of high virtues and great faults. But in the moral ordeal through which their generations passed; in the powerful temptations by which they were tested-first by the license of a new country, and an unsettled provincial government-then by the nearly absolute power of the extensive planter and numerous slaveholder; their virtues declined, while their faults increased. Men like the Chesters, men of absolute self-will and violent temper, are usually attracted to women of the gentlest and most submissive natures. And such women had the Chesters always married. And the constant unreasoning submission of such patient Griseldas, of course fostered the faults in the father, without modifying them in the son, since it is always the parent of the stronger nature that transmits the character to the children. It was owing to these causes that Colonel Chester was the worst as well as the last of his ancient, high-toned, and chivalrous race. And this accounts for the violent scene I have just described. 
               Death, sickness, calamity, in their usual forms, we recognise and receive as coming from Omniscient wisdom and love, and we bow to the dispensation with more or less of reverence and resignation. But when the ungovernable passions or fiendish selfishness of others, when pride, ambition, avarice; treachery, cruelty, trample down into dust our most sacred rights, and lay waste our holiest affections; then we cannot recognise God's hand in man's cruelty. We even wonder at His non-interference. We even doubt if it be not blasphemy to say of our sorrow, that "it is the will of God." We cannot separate the sin of the aggressor from the suffering of the aggressed, and say that God willed the effect, when it would be impious to say He willed the cause. The head may never understand it. And it takes the awful mystery of Gethsemane and the Divine Revelation of the Mount of Ascension to teach the heart the truth-the truth that the final act of life's fearful drama belongs to another state of existence, and that the curtain of death will rise upon the denouement. 
               After this terrible family storm, in which poor Mrs. Chester's ter's vital powers had suddenly failed, the peace stern death enforces reigned through the house. Alice, her heart and brain overturned by endurance, lay exhausted, almost insensible, upon her bed within her chamber. One day, as she lay there in the shadowy room, with her hands covering her face, quite still, as she had been lying for hours, she suddenly became aware-not by sight, hearing, or touch, but by a strange exaltation and fervour of spirit-of a Holy Presence above her, surrounding, enveloping her, as with a warm, luminous atmosphere, and the voice of her mother, silvery, and sweet, and soft, and liquid as the breaking of water-bubbles, saying- 
               "Alice, grieve no more! The soul is immortal-from eternity to eternity. It is from God, without beginning and without end. This life is but a dream, and if the dream become painful beyond endurance, the Guardian Angel of Sleep, the beautiful Angel of Death, will touch you on your brow, and you will awaken-to your true and immortal life. So it was with me; so, dreamer, will it be with you." 
               And the vision passed, leaving a strange peace in its stead. In after years, this was ascribed to nervous excitement; but there were moments when Alice held the vision to be no phenomenon of nervous delirium, but a holy and beautiful revelation. 
               While Alice lay thus, in a state of complete mental and physical exhaustion, with her spirit hovering as it were between the two worlds, Colonel Chester sat in his library, subdued, moody, remorseful, perhaps sorrowful, for the loss of the gentle wife who had been the dearest-of his slaves-for twenty years. 
               General Garnet had taken himself off to the village tavern, whence he had been invited to pass a week or two, at Point Yocomoco, the seat of Judge Wylie. 
               Mr. Sinclair, in the disinterested kindness of his heart, remained at the house, superintending and directing everything, unquestioned by Colonel Chester, who, when he met, recognised him with a sigh or a groan. He remained until the funeral was over, and the house restored to its former order, and departed without seeing Alice, who, still prostrated, had not left her room. And after this, as Colonel Chester had not revoked his prohibition, he came to the house no more. 
               As days glided into weeks, Alice recovered a portion of her strength, left her chamber, and mournfully went about her customary occupations. 
               In the sorrowful and solitary days that had followed her mother's death, Alice had meditated, prayed, and experienced much. And when she had prayed to God, believing that He heard and would answer her, she invoked the sainted spirit of her mother in the fond faith that she too would hear-would come and watch over her. And slowly, in her dark hour, this light dawned on her soul: That it was not her duty to break an engagement once sanctioned by both her parents, a sacred engagement with a most estimable man, whom she loved and venerated next to God; to wither the whole life's happiness of her lover and herself; to give her hand to a man she loathed, even when her father-for no better reason than that the new comer was the more distinguished suitor of the two-commanded the transfer. No! this was not duty; it was faithlessness to God; infidelity to her betrothed; falsehood to her new bridegroom; perjury in the sight of Heaven and earth. No! her duty lay in a diametrically opposite line of conduct: To preserve her love and faith-those jewels of her soul-entire, inseparable; to stand firmly by them, and let the storm roll on; let the storm roll over her, and pass, as pass it must. 
               Alice felt strong because she had resolved her difficult problem of a "divided duty." There was no inner conflict. All opposition was from without, and could be borne; not easily, perhaps, but it could be borne, or so Alice thought, when the lapse of a few solemn, quiet weeks had given her composure. It was easy to sit in her still chamber, and reading, calm, cool, reasoning books, or looking out upon the gentle gladness of the early spring days, resolve to face a coming tempest. And Alice nerved her gentle heart to bear her father's wrath and curse, and all the terror and the anguish that might follow, rather than be false to her love and faith. 
               Poor Alice! her spirit was very willing, but her nerves were very weak. So it was with a pang of fear, that Alice heard her father at the breakfast-table, one morning, announce the expected arrival of General Garnet that evening. Yes, Colonel Chester, thinking that now perhaps sufficient time had elapsed since her mother's death-and sufficient strength and cheerfulness had returned to his daughter, had recalled her suitor. Alice was trembling violently-she dared not look up. She had been taught to love and venerate her father above all earthly beings, and next to God. She loved and venerated him still, and kept her thoughts reverently away from investigating his motives, and judging his conduct. She had been taught to bow with implicit and reverential obedience to his will. To oppose him had not been easy in her thought-it was terrible in practice. It would have been terrible to her, had her father been a man of moderate temper and selfcontrol: but he was a man of violent and ungovernable passion; and Alice was in an agony of terror when she faltered out- 
               "Father, if General Garnet comes here only as your guest, I will welcome him with every possible attention; I will try to make him feel at home, and endeavour to render his sojourn with us in every other way agreeable; but if he comes here as my suitor-" here her voice died away. 
               "WELL!" 
               It is impossible to convey the short, curt, galvanic strength and abruptness with which he jerked, as it were, this syllable out, and brought Alice up. It was like throwing the lasso suddenly around her neck, and jerking her up face to face with him. And such a face! It is impossible to paint the grim determination of the locked jaws, armed with the wiry stubble beard, bristled up with fierceness, and the ferocity of the darkly gathered frown that screwed his glance upon her pallid face, that screwed it into her very brain. Alice turned deadly sick, her eyes filmed over, and she sank back in her chair. She did not faint or lose consciousness, for the next instant she felt her father's iron hand upon her fragile shoulder, and her father's awful voice in that low, deep, suppressed tone of fierce, immutable determination, saying, 
               "Miss Chester, it is not as your suitor, but as your husband, that General Garnet will come this evening. I command you to receive him as such." 
               And he left her. 
               Alice sat there in the same attitude, while the servants waited her orders; at last one of them went out for Comfort, the woman who had been Alice's nurse, and was now her maid, and told her that surely Miss Alice was very ill, for she was looking very queer. And Comfort came in, raised Alice in her great, strong arms, carried her into the parlour, which was empty, laid her on the sofa, knelt down by her, and said, 
               "What's de matter, Miss Ally, honey? Tell yer ole aunty, honey. You know I'se almos' a mother to you." 
                
               "Oh, Comfort, go down to Huttontown, and try to find Mr. Sinclair, and ask him, in my name, for the merciful Saviour's sake, to come and see me! Go, Comfort, go quickly, and return quickly; but not without him, Comfort!" 
               "Yes, honey, that I will. God knows, honey, I wish, I do, you'd a sent me arter him a week ago! Let me take you to your room first, honey, then I'll go." 
               "No, aunty, I will stay here and wait for him," said Alice, rising. "It is so dreadful when the poor, fragile frame fails to sustain the soul's resolve." 
               Comfort brought her a cologne bottle, and went on her errand, muttering, 
               "I know ole marse gwine sell me to Georgy for this here, when he fin' it out. I don't care; ef I once see my poor, dear gal safe married to Marse Sinclair, I willin' to go to Georgy for it!" 
               Colonel Chester was gone to hunt with Judge Wylie, General Garnet, and other gentlemen of the neighbourhood, who were afterwards to dine with the judge at Yocomoco Point. He was expected home in the evening, accompanied, of course, by General Garnet. So Alice had the house to herself for one day. 
               After the departure of Comfort, Alice walked restlessly about the room, smelling her cologne, and bathing her temples with it, or lay upon the sofa, weak and exhausted. Comfort had been gone but one hour, when the swift gallop of a horse was heard coming up the circular avenue. It stopped before the house. Quick footsteps sounded in the hall, and in another instant Sinclair stood before her. Alice started forward, and-but the cold, severe gravity of the minister arrested her, and she gazed at him with mournful wonder. 
               "I see how it is," at last she said, "you think that I have been false to you." 
               "No, no, Alice, I do not," he replied, taking her hand, pressing it, and leading her to the sofa, where she sat, while he stood before her. And now she looked up and read the awful sorrow on his brow. 
               "Sit down by me, and let me tell you all that has happened. I have been true to you, indeed I have. I will continue to be, indeed I will. My soul is resolved; it is only my nerves that falter. You know I am not strong, Sinclair; I take after my mother in being delicate. I may turn pale, and tremble, and swoon, and even die of terror, but I will not be false to you. God sees me! Oh, Sinclair, why do you look so grave and stern? Can it be possible that I have offended you? Will you not sit by me and tell me in what manner?" 
               "No, Alice, no! how could you offend me?" he replied, as he took the seat at her side, and dropped his head upon his hands, while a shudder convulsed his frame. It was but for a moment, and looking up, he said, "Tell me, Alice, why you sent for me." 
               And Alice began her little, momentous narrative, ending as she had begun, with assurances that though heart and flesh should fail in the trial, her faith and love should not falter. 
               "And now that you are by my side, I feel so much stronger-every way. Let the storm roll on-it cannot destroy us! And when it has spent its fury, and done its worst, I'll tell you what remains-you and I, with our Love, and Faith, and Hope! You, with your profession, and I, with my boundless willingness to help you. I can teach a girl's school, and keep house for us both, besides. But, oh! do not look so mournfully-look up-trust!" 
               "Oh, Alice, your dreams are Utopian! With what benefit could a congregation listen to a preacher who had eloped with a wealthy heiress? With what sort of trust could parents place their children under the instruction and guidance of a girl who had signally disobeyed her own father in running away to be married? No, Alice-they would neither hear me preach, nor trust you to teach. No, Alice, the social usefulness of both would be destroyed. No, Alice, were we to marry without the consent of your father, I would have to give up the ministry, give up the service to which I am pledged." 
               "You would not-you would not! Have faith in God's love-and some little faith, too, in your fellow men's kindly feelings. You have my father's letter, in which he once gave you his consent to our marriage. Call your vestry together; lay the letter before them; explain all the circumstances; trust them with all your doubts and fears; they are men-they have hearts! My life on it, they will take part with you!" 
               "Alice, they would not. They are men, but they are wealthy planters, also; they have daughters and sons to whom they would not like to present a high example of what would be considered an imprudent love-match. Beyond all this, the very esprit du corps would bind them together with Colonel Chester. And, oh, Alice! even if the vestry could be won, they make but a very small part of the church, in which my usefulness would be destroyed. No, Alice! To give up the service of God, or to give up you, that is my intolerable alternative. Oh, God!" 
               Language could never describe the voice of agony in which these words were groaned forth. Alice replied, 
               "Not so! not so! God never set that dreadful choice before any human soul. Oh! believe it-" 
               "Alice! Christ, when sending forth his apostles to preach, said, 'He that loveth father or mother more than Me, is not worthy of Me. He that loveth son or daughter more than Me, is not worthy of Me. He that taketh not up his cross and followeth Me, is not worthy of Me.'" 
               "But Christ never said a man should leave his wife-no, no! Christ was just and merciful. He never set that task to human nature-no, no! He said-'Those whom God hath joined together, let no man put asunder,'" said Alice, carried away by enthusiasm; then, with a sudden consciousness, her brow crimsoned, and she dropped her face within her hand, while Sinclair replied, 
               "Alice! you are not my wife. I would to Heaven you were! I would to Heaven you were! I would it had pleased God to rain all sorts of evil on my head, and spared me this most bitter sorrow-this most bitter duty of resigning you! I would have plucked out my right eye, cut off my right hand, offered up the Isaac of my heart upon the altar of duty; but you, Alice, you!-Alice!-I dare not stay with you longer! I am almost mad myself! Look at me. I came here to comfort you; I have only alarmed and pained you. Farewell, Alice! May God from Heaven love, and sustain, and bless you!" and, wringing her hand, he rushed from the room. 
               The awful hours that followed. The awful days that followed. 
               Colonel Chester arrived in the evening, and with him General Garnet, who was in deep mourning, as though he already belonged to the family. He met Alice with a grave and tender courtesy, and seemed to consider her deep dejection as solely caused by grief for her mother's loss. 
               Several days passed like a dreary dream to Alice. Colonel Chester would call her to entertain his visiter, excuse himself, and go into his fields with the ostensible purpose of overlooking his new manager, with the real intention of leaving the coast clear to the lover. But Alice, as soon as her father would leave the house, always got up and retired to her chamber, where she remained until recalled by him at his return. 
               This had gone on for a week, when one day Colonel Chester inquired jocosely of his favourite how he sped now with his wooing, when he was informed by General Garnet that Miss Chester afforded him no opportunity of expressing his devotion, as she constantly avoided the possibility of being alone with him for a moment, and ever returned his letters with their seals unbroken. This aroused the anger of Colonel Chester, and excited his suspicions. 
               General Garnet, seeing that a storm was brewing, and wishing to ignore all violence and coercion, took himself off to Huttontown. 
               Colonel Chester began his investigations: called up and examined the servants, and dragged out the truth of Alice's message to Sinclair, and his subsequent visit. 
               I shrink from describing the scene of terror, confusion, and dismay that ensued. First, white and quivering with rage, Colonel Chester sent two strong negro men to seize Comfort, and bring her before him for sentence; and without waiting for their return, he burst into his daughter's bed-chamber, in the most terrific passion, upbraided her in the most violent manner, seized her fragile form in his iron grasp, shook her furiously, and hurled her from him, so that she fell heavily upon the floor, at some distance from him. Then he turned from the room, to wreak his vengeance on Comfort. This maddened Alice. She arose, giddy, tottering, with her wild staring eyes, in their startling dilation and fearful light, in ghastly contrast to the deathly pallor of her cheek, and the glittering glory of her beautiful but wildly dishevelled hair. She arose to her feet fearfully, like one listening for a returning storm, then slipping through a door communicating with the back stairs, she fled from the house. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               THE WILD APPEAL. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Desert me! No, thou canst not! I am thine! 
                           I am! Look at me, dearest! Look at me! 
                           I am half blind with weeping; and mine eyes 
                           Have not a tear left in them! 
                        
                      
                     -FESTUS. 
                   
                
               THAT night, as Sinclair was returning home from a pastoral visit through a narrow bridle-path in the forest, a phantom-like figure stood in his way-a slight girl, whose pallid features, sharpened by agony, and whose frenzied eyes, and dishevelled, golden hair, were thrown out into strong relief by her black dress. He looked twice before he recognised this spectre to be Alice. 
               "Where are you going?" she rapidly and fearfully inquired, as she laid her wan hand on the bridle. 
               "Home," said Sinclair, passing his hand across his brow, as if to dispel a nightmare. 
               "Take me with you! Do not leave me!" she wildly exclaimed. 
               Sinclair threw himself quickly off his horse, took her hand, drew her aside from the path, and gazing with anguish into her frenzied face, exclaimed- 
               "Alice! Oh, my God! What is this?" 
               "Take me home with you! Oh! for the loving Redeemer's sake, take me home with you! I have no pride! see! I am at your feet! I am mad, or going mad! Oh! let me hold my head! my brain will burst! No one has a right to curse my life so! I have a right to dispose of myself! I have a right to dispose of myself! Take me with you! Oh! my guide! my friend! my heart's own! my other heart! take me with you! I am going mad! I am mad now! Oh! I know it! I know it too surely! I should not speak these words if I were not mad! It is because I have no friend! None in the world but you! My mother is dead! If she were living, she would not let my life be cursed so! Oh! take me with you! do not cast me back in the fire!" 
                
               "Alice! Alice! oh! God!" 
               "Hush! Let me talk! I hate no one now, much and bitterly as they wrong me. My soul will be filled with love, and joy, and forgiveness, and mercy, if you take me with you. If you cast me back into the fire, hatred, and terror, and despair, will take possession of my soul, and never leave it. I shall impiously hate my father; hate with a consuming hatred the husband he forces on me. I shall lose my faith in God. I shall be unutterably wretched in this world, and eternally lost in the next." 
               And so she raved, raved, raved; saying the same things over a score, a hundred times, clinging frantically to him, refusing to relinquish her hold, while he stood supporting her with one arm, leaning over her, whiter than marble, and as motionless, except that sometimes a great heart-sob would convulse his bosom, and force great tears like heart's blood down his cheeks. 
               For in the terrible convulsions of the soul, the instincts of sex are temporarily obliterated, and woman may rave like man, or man weep like woman: the soul in its strong anguish is all in all. And, oh, believe me! the highest, deepest, strongest love, the love that suffers to agony, the love that endures unto death, is of the soul. 
               At last, as by a sudden resolution, Sinclair raised her tenderly in his arms, and resting her head against his bosom, set off towards Mount Calm. 
               "Where are you going to take me?" asked Alice. 
               "Home," replied the minister. 
               Alice certainly misunderstood him, for she smiled wanly, and murmured- 
               "Oh! I am so happy, Sinclair!" 
               And he hurried on, pressing her closer to his bosom, while the large tears fell from his eyes upon her hair. Once she started in his arms, like a frightened bird, and exclaimed in a panic of terror- 
               "Suppose father should come after me, Sinclair! Suppose he should get into my room, and drag me out, and force me into that horrible marriage! He can do it, Sinclair." 
               "But he will not, my own dear Alice! Hush! be calm!" 
               "I will. But I am thinking of that marriage, Sinclair. Was that the sort of marriage God instituted as the crowning blessing to man and woman?-the marriages that holy priests, God's delegated ministers, perform-that men and angels witness ness-that God blesses? The barter of so much glory for so much gold! I think that God must turn away His face, and angels weep, and fiends laugh at such a marriage! The barter of so much glory for so much gold! Oh! it is too funny! ha! ha! ha! Am I growing wicked?-for I feel less like weeping with the angels, than laughing with the fiends!" 
               And she went off, in peal upon peal of frenzied laughter. 
               Sinclair was in the extremity of distress. He pressed her closer to his bosom, and in the first pause of her fearful laughter, he stooped and whispered, reproachfully, 
               "Alice, how can you laugh so, and your poor mother lying so near by, in her cold grave?" 
               This cruel, but necessary speech, had the desired effect. Alice suddenly became quite still, and so, holding her closely to his bosom, dropping large tears upon her drooping head, he took her to Mount Calm. He bore her light form through the long and shaded avenue. As he reached the front of the house, he saw that there was a light in the usual sitting parlour. He ascended the steps, and without ringing, opened the door and carried her into the hall, and thence into the parlour. It was empty, but there was a light burning in the adjoining library, and he carried her in there. 
               Colonel Chester sat at his writing-table; pens, ink, and many papers were before him, but he sat with his elbows upon the table, his head bowed upon both hands, in moody thought. He was pale and haggard, as from great fatigue and anxiety. As the sound of Sinclair, entering, caught his strained ear, he inquired, without turning- 
               "Have they found that unfortunate child yet, Garnet?" 
               At the sound of her father's voice, though he spoke in sad, and even gentle tones, Alice, who had been resting quietly, started, shuddered, and clung like a frightened infant to Sinclair's bosom. 
               Sinclair advanced slowly, and touching Colonel Chester on the shoulder, said, 
               "Turn, Colonel Chester, she is here, but not safe." 
               Colonel Chester turned, with a black frown. 
               Alice started, looked up, recognised her father, and with a piercing shriek clung to Sinclair's neck, burying her face in his bosom. 
               Colonel Chester sprang to the bell, and rang it with such violence, peal upon peal, that half the household came rushing into the library. Then he turned instantly to Sinclair, and attempted to take Alice from his arms. 
                
               Sinclair essayed, gently, to remove her clasp from around him. It was very easy-her arms were very limber now-and as he restored her to her father, her eyes were fixed on the far distance, and she asked, 
               "Is it not most time for the angel to wake me, mother, for my dream is getting very bad? Can the angel forget to wake me, mother?" 
               "Mount the fleetest horse in the stable, and go for a physician, immediately," said Sinclair, and his order was instantly obeyed. 
               Alice, unresisting, sometimes smiling a sort of gentle, imbecile smile, sometimes starting and shuddering with terror, was conveyed to bed by the female servants, and attended by her father. 
               Sinclair remained alone in the library. Some hours passed, during which the physician had arrived, prescribed for Alice, and taken his place by her bedside, to watch all night, for Alice was dangerously ill. 
               It was about eleven o'clock that Colonel Chester entered the library. It was a moral and physical impossibility that he should throw himself into another furious passion that day, so, on seeing Sinclair occupying his chair at the library-table, he merely said, morosely, 
               "You here still, sir?" 
               "Yes, Colonel Chester, I had no intention of departing without hearing of Alice's state." 
               "Sir, Miss Chester has just been composed to sleep; her condition will be best ascertained on her awakening." 
               "What does her physician fear or hope?" 
               "Sir, Miss Chester may awake only to sink into the sleep of death, or she may awake to life, but not to reason; or, finally, which the physician thinks most probable, she may awake restored to both." 
               "And you speak so coolly of this! Oh! Father!" 
               "Sir, I take it that those who talk most vehemently, do not feel most deeply; have you any farther commands for me, sir?" 
               "I must have a conversation with you, Colonel Chester," said Sinclair, and then he paused, like one trying to stay the tide of some great emotion. He continued-"I should suppose that you, also, would like to know where I found your unfortunate daughter." 
               "Unfortunate, sir! Why unfortunate, but that you have inveigled her affections, and taught her disobedience!" said Colonel Chester, with rising wrath. 
               "Be patient, Colonel Chester-for I am very patient." Then again he stopped, and pressing his hands tightly on his brow, so as to still its throbbings, he began to speak. He was fearfully pale, but as you have seen the red fire glow through the light white ashes on a burning coal, so sometimes glowed the red blood through his ashen cheek, in its mighty heaves and surges. He went back to the beginning. He told Colonel Chester how interested he had been in Alice when he first saw her, a girl of fourteen; how he had luxuriated in the cultivation of that rich and genial soil, her mind and heart; how his love for the girl had ripened, unaware, into the passion for the woman; how religiously he had abstained from wooing Alice, until he had received the permission and the blessing of both her parents; how their engagement had been sanctioned by both parents; and how happy they were. He said that in pure justice, Alice was his own. He stopped to recover his fast vanishing composure, and proceeded. He spoke of their preparations for marriage and housekeeping, and their plans for future usefulness; of his own confident joy; of his bride's innocent delight; of her mother's happiness in contemplating their union, when the sudden whirlwind of affliction came, and scattered all their hopes. He spoke of Alice's grief at the loss of her brothers; of her far deeper sorrow at the death of her mother; of the despair she must feel to be separated, in the midst of her affliction, from one she loved like himself; of the cruelty and danger of forcing her into a loathed marriage. 
               And here again Sinclair nearly lost his senses. He started up, and walked the floor in a distracted manner, while Colonel Chester sat in grave and stern composure. At last he threw himself into a chair, struggled, and continued- 
               He described the state in which he had found Alice that night-her despair; her wildness; her mad raving; her spasms of terror, and her relapses into imbecility;-he reminded her father of the state in which he had brought her home; of the slender thread upon which her life and reason now hung; and besought him, if she were spared, not to force her into an abhorred union which must make her whole life, if she could survive such a marriage, hideous with misery. 
               "I spoke to you first of justice, of the justice of my claims and hers. I waive it! I speak to you now of mercy, and I beseech you in mercy to all that she has suffered and must ever suffer-spare her! Do not compel her into a union she loathes! Give her to me. I do not say in justice, though I might, for she is my betrothed wife. I beseech you in mercy give her to me, for I only can nurse her back to life and happiness! She has suffered so much, poor little thing! Oh, father of Alice, give her to me! let me nurse her back to life and hope! I can do it, and not another! Oh! she is mine, not only by your gift and her own, and God's, but by the deathless love I bear her!" 
               "Sir, I fancy that Miss Chester has the best medical attendance the country can produce. If it please God to remove her, I must bow to that dispensation as to others; if she recovers, as I trust and believe she will, she will have learned from experience the lesson, that, with all your teaching, you should have taught her-the duty of filial obedience, and the truth that the way of the transgressor is hard!" said Colonel Chester, sitting back in his broad chair, and drawing his watch from his fob. "It is near one o'clock, Mr. Sinclair, and I trust that our unpleasant interview draws near its close?" 
               Sinclair was suffering very much; chill as the night was, fireless as the room was, the drops of perspiration were beaded upon his brow. Perhaps he was not wise when he broke forth in a voice of agony: 
               "Colonel Chester, I am not proud, God knows it; but if I were the proudest human being that ever trod the earth, my love for Alice would have lifted me out of that sin. I beg her of you! I entreat you to give her to me! I can make her well and happy, because she loves me. And I-if I should tell you that I love her with the tenderness with which a mother loves her first and only babe, I could never make you feel the depth of that tenderness. If I should tell you that I love her with the self-devoting love-and oh! it is with the profoundest reverence I speak it-with which Christ loved the world-if I were to tell you that I would drain my veins of every drop of blood if it could make Alice happy-you could never feel the extent of my self-devotion. If I were to tell you that I shall die without Alice, you would not care, perhaps, though I often feel that I certainly shall! I cannot separate the loss of Alice from the loss of life, nor when I try to seize the thought, can I realize the one more than the other." He dropped his head between his palms with a great heart-sob and groan, and looked up again. "I have never asked her to marry me without your consent. I will never take her without your leave. But, oh! give her to me; sink ambition for once! Give her to me! She is my own! She is my own heart! She is so near to me! So natural to me! I have been so used to her! I thought her my wife so long! Oh! listen, old man! Listen, careful father! Listen, honourable man! Colonel Chester, I had your permission to woo her; I availed myself of the blessed privilege. Oh! did I not? I have held her in my arms a hundred times: I have strained her to my burning heart, while my very veins ran liquid flame; I have pressed a thousand kisses on her face, until her maiden brow has been red as my lips-red as my heart's blood, and glowing as its fire! Can you change that pure blush-oh, father!-to say nothing of justice, to say nothing of mercy? Can you in very HONOUR give her to another man?" 
               Colonel Chester arose, agitated with conflicting emotions, yet speaking steadily: 
               "Mr. Sinclair, have you done? Very well. You cannot complain that I have not heard you with patience, though you might have taken your answer long ago, for long ago this matter has been discussed between us. You heard my decision then, and it remains unaltered. Permit me to visit my daughter, sir." Then pulling the bell, he said, to the servant who answered it, "Be within Mr. Sinclair's call, and when he is pleased to retire, show him to his room," and, turning to Sinclair, he said, "Allow me to wish you good-evening, sir-" pride, scorn, and cruelty in every tone and gesture! 
               Let me hasten over the next few hideous weeks. Incalculable is the power of endurance in the human heart, for Alice Chester recovered. She recovered slowly from her severe and nearly fatal illness-her spirit utterly broken; her heart utterly crushed; her very brain clouded. Her whole being bowed down by the storm of sorrow, yet with no one to support, comfort, sympathize with her. Her mother was dead; her kind nurse, that humble but devoted friend, was sold. Sinclair, that only living being who could have saved her, was absent, forbidden to approach her. She was left alone, almost imbecile, and so quite defenceless in the terrible power of her father. 
               And what words are these to write! and what a position was hers when that divinely appointed parental authority-that protective and beneficent power-was perverted by pride, ambition, and selfishness into an engine of mighty torture, inflicting a fatal and lifelong calamity! 
               Yet the father verily believed that he was disinterestedly serving his daughter's best interests. There is no more profoundly mournful illustration of the ruined archangel, than that of any perverted love. 
               With the support of her feeble mother, had she lived-with the support of Sinclair, had his piety been less ascetic, more hopeful, Alice might have successfully resisted the fate impending over her; but she was alone, reduced by sorrow and illness to a state of imbecility of mind and body, and she succumbed to her destiny. 
               So, in just three months from the death of her mother, Alice Chester, pallid, cold, nearly lifeless, whiter than the pearls in her pale hair, stood in bridal array before God's holy altar, to vow in the hearing of men and angels, to love and honour one whom she found it difficult not to hate and despise! 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE HUSBAND'S AUTHORITY. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Yet haply there will come a weary day, 
                           When overtasked at length, 
                           Both Love and Hope beneath the weight give way; 
                           Then with a statue's smile, a statue's strength, 
                           Stands the mute sister, Patience, nothing loth, 
                           And both supporting does the work of both. 
                        
                      
                     COLERIDGE. 
                   
                
               IMMEDIATELY after the marriage, they set out upon a bridal tour, through the North. They were absent all summer. Early in autumn they returned to Mount Calm, where, at the earnest desire of Colonel Chester, they took up their residence. Alice would have preferred it otherwise. 
               After their marriage, and during their long and varied bridal tour, she had, as it were, lost her identity, seeming to herself to be some one else. The varied scenes of her journey-the stage-offices, turnpike-roads, country taverns, great cities with their masses of brick and mortar, public edifices, forests of shipping, gay shops, theatres, concerts, balls, illuminations, dancings, splendid attire, stage pageantry, the ranting and the after silence, land journeys, water journeys-all haunted by one painful presence-had passed before her like phantasmagoria; like a continuation of her brain fever, with its nervous delirium and grotesque or hideous visions, and hallucinations. So all had seemed to her, while she seemed to all a pale, pretty, silent girl. 
               There is a point of suffering beyond which sorrow destroys itself-is not felt as real-just as there is a crisis at which physical agony superinduces insensibility. So it had been with Alice, until she re-entered her native State, and memory and association were at work again, 
                      
                        "And the accustomed train 
                        Of things grew round her brain again"- 
                     
                   then it was with the shrinking dread with which a burned child would approach fire, that Alice drew near her home. She would have preferred to remain away for ever, amid the kaleidoscopic changes of her new, wandering, unreal life, rather than have awakened from the strange, painful, but very vague dream; rather than have had CONSCIOUSNESS forced upon her by the dear, old familiar scenes, and associations of her home-her once peaceful, hopeful, happy home, as by 
                      
                        "Some monstrous torture-engine's whole 
                        Strength." 
                     
                  
                
               The day of their arrival at home, a large company had been invited to meet them at dinner. The days that followed, were filled up with dinner-parties. At length; late in the fall, they were quietly settled, and the monotonous routine of daily country life commenced. One thing Alice dreaded, and avoided; appearing at church again under her new position and name. Sinclair might easily have supposed this, and divined the reason; he might have felt deeply pained, that Alice was compelled to deny herself the consolation of attending Divine service; but he could not, upon this account, give up or exchange his pulpit, and abandon what he considered his post of duty, even though, for his own tranquillity, as well as for the peace of Alice, he must desire to do so. But this gordian knot was cut for him by others. 
               You will remember that previous to her marriage, and when wishing to avert her impending fate, Alice had thrown herself upon the generosity of her suitor, by informing him of her engagement with Sinclair, "sanctioned by her parents;" and even, as a last argument, confessing her affection for her betrothed. I said then that this painful confession and appeal had been made in vain; that it had done no good. It remains to show how much harm it did. It was a confession, an appeal that General Garnet would never forget, or forgive! If he loved his fragile young wife at all, it was with a surly reservation; he could not pardon her for having wedded only upon compulsion, for having preferred another, even though that preference had been felt before she had ever set eyes upon himself; even though he knew himself to be the wrong-doer, and that other the deeply wronged, even though he had over-shadowed the whole of their lives with sorrow; nay! because of that, his resentment was the deeper!
                
               Some who may read these lines, may have experienced the dark and fearful power of one bitter, determined, insidious foe. And they will understand how it was that the young clergyman became unpopular in his congregation; how his youth, manly beauty, grace, and accomplishments, that once won all hearts, were now so many faults and misfortunes; how the narrow-minded called him a free thinker, and the liberal-hearted believed him too ascetic; the rich and powerful, that he unbent too much from the dignity of the clergyman in visiting so familiarly the poor of the congregation, and complained that he was fond of low company; while the poor accused him of being "stuck up, and conceited with his soft, brown hair, and white hand like a lady's, and his black coat, and his book-learning." The young minister was under a cloud; and those who looked at him thought he was black. But it was only the shadow of the cloud. His usefulness in that neighbourhood was not only impaired; it was destroyed. His congregation fell off, so that he was in danger of preaching only to empty pews. He was meditating the resignation of his pulpit, when a "call" to take charge of a church in the West, opened to him a new field of labour and usefulness. His departure followed; and this was a great relief to Alice, who, with the "sigh of a great deliverance, tried to leave the past with all its gloom and terror," and turn to the future with some hope. 
               The successor of Sinclair arrived-the new minister was the very antipode of the old one-a stout, round-bodied, red-faced, black-haired, bald-pated, elderly gentleman; amazingly fond of wild turkey with oyster-sauce. He was very popular with the rich-for he eat their dinners, drank their wines, patronized ized their oyster-suppers and fish-frolics, and praised all-and never had the bad taste to lug the pulpit bodily into the dining-room or drawing-room. As for the poor, they never saw him near enough to take offence at his "black coat, and book-learning." As for Alice, notwithstanding she did not think the new minister to be "a man after God's own heart," or even after any earnest Christian's heart, she was too happy to be permitted to go to church again. 
               There is one thing very excellent in the Episcopal Church and in its form of worship; it is this: that under all circumstances, and changes of church ministry, no matter how bad a pastor they may chance to have (such things must sometimes be-there was a Judas among the Twelve), no matter how insincere his piety, how "flat, stale, and unprofitable" his sermons, yet there remains to the children of the faith, unchanged and unchangeable, the sublime and most beautiful ritual of the church-that answers all the spirit's need, that "age cannot wither, nor custom stale"-that ritual, dear from the associations of childhood, and Divine from the experiences of life. 
               It was for this that Alice sought again the church: it was to hear again the awfully impressive words of the opening service, "The Lord is in His holy temple, let all the earth keep silence before Him." It was to feel herself in that awful Presence. Alice was very strongly attached to her church, and to its form of worship. In infancy she had been baptized there; in childhood, she had knelt at that altar, and felt the venerable hands of the Bishop laid on her head in blessing in the sacred rite of confirmation; in girlhood she had knelt there to receive her first communion; every week during her whole life she had worshipped there-until lately. All her sweetest, dearest, profoundest religious affections and experiences were associated with that old Red-Sandstone Church. It was a great comfort and support to go there, to join in the solemn worship, to sit at the Lord's table, to hear the Word of God, to exercise all her religious duties, and enjoy all her religious privileges, as she had been accustomed to do. It was with a countenance calmed with "peace and good will" that Alice took her place in the carriage to go to church the first time; but it was with a face radiant with the inner light of a profound religious joy that she sat by her husband's side in their drive home. It was a peace and joy which he could not understand, into which he could by no means enter, with which he was not in any way connected, and of which, as a matter of course, he grew jealous. He objected to her attending the church-even though the young minister had resigned his congregation to the care of an elderly pastor and was far away,-he was jealous of his memory connected with the church. Alice acquiesced, although it was another wound needlessly inflicted on her bleeding heart; she acquiesced, saying to herself, that God dwells not alone in temples made with hands, that he was present everywhere; that it was better to absent herself from church, since it was from no lack of desire to go there that she did it, than to associate its holy peace with family dissensions. 
               Alice had books-good and soul-sustaining books, the productions of some of the finest intellects and purest hearts earth ever knew-selected for her without regard to sect, by Sinclair, and full of his marks and annotations, and these stood her in best stead of sermons when her soul needed spiritual help. But these books Sinclair and herself had read and admired together, and these General Garnet with a mistaken vengeance, with a morose satisfaction, seized whenever and wherever he found them, and cast them into the fire. 
               The old ladies of the neighbourhood, who had been her mother's friends, were fond of visiting Alice, of having her with them, and of giving her such instruction, and showing her such attention, as genial old ladies delight to show young wives and inexperienced housekeepers, and Alice loved to be with them. But they were connected with the past: they would even talk to Alice kindly of the young minister whom they had "always thought would have married and settled among" them, but who was now gone for ever. And for this reason, General Garnet discouraged the association until it ceased entirely, and Alice was almost in solitary confinement in the cold, stern prison of her home. 
               And now, if you are inclined to blame General Garnet very much, remember that a very much better man might have acted in the very same maner, under the same circumstances, for "Jealousy is as cruel as the grave." He knew himself unloved, he felt too surely that he could not confer upon his enforced bride the highest happiness, and he took a morose satisfaction in occasionally exercising his power of inflicting the greatest pain. 
               Did Colonel Chester see and acquiesce in this destruction of his daughter's peace? No; he saw little or nothing objectionable able in General Garnet's manners. He was a very distinguished man, exceedingly moral and polite-that was enough. Besides, Colonel Chester stood in great awe and admiration of his imposing son-in-law. Finally, the most refined and fatal methods of torture are not visible to a third party; victim and executioner are alone in the secret. 
               Two events of great domestic importance occurred in the second year of their marriage: one was the death of Colonel Chester, who died, as all their neighbours said, of nothing more than his diabolical temper; as their physician said, of congestion of the brain, brought on by excitement. And what do you think was the cause of this fatal excitement? That the child of Alice happened to be a girl instead of a boy, which he had set his heart upon. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               COUNTRY NEIGHBOURS. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Blest those abodes where want and pain repair, 
                           And every stranger finds a ready chair; 
                           Blest be those feasts, with joyous plenty crowned, 
                           Where all the blooming family around, 
                           Laugh at the jests or pranks that never fail, 
                           Or sigh with pity at some mournful tale, 
                           Or press the weary traveller to his food, 
                           And feel the luxury of doing good. 
                        
                      
                     -GOLDSMITH. 
                   
                
               THERE was one family, and that family the very warmest and most steadfast among the few friends of Sinclair, from whom General Garnet had not the will or the power to separate his young wife-the Wylies, of Yocomoco, or Point Pleasant, as their seat was more frequently called by their delighted visiters. Who indeed had the will or the power to do aught to annoy the delightful host of Point Pleasant? 
               Who in all the South has not heard of Judge Jacky Wylie, still called Judge because he had once set upon the bench, though not finding the seat comfortable, he had abandoned it, affirming that he had "not the heart" for the business. That was a favourite phrase with the Judge, who was always asserting that he "hadn't the heart," when every one knew that he had the largest heart in all old Maryland, and that its capacities for growth were immortal, so that when she should come to depart this life, his physician's verdict would be likely to be, "died of enlargement of the heart." Yet he "hadn't the heart" was the excuse for all manner of carelessness, extravagance, and improvidence, and the shirking of all manner of disagreeable duties. He "hadn't the heart" to collect a bad debt, "because, poor soul, perhaps he-the debtor-couldn't pay." He "hadn't the heart" to turn an idle beggar from the door, because, "poor wretch, he looked too weak to work." And worse than that, he, a "judge," one bound to uphold and protect the authority of the law, "hadn't the heart" to prosecute the thief who robbed his hen roost, "because, poor devil, his little child was ill, and he himself would have given him a dozen chickens for his sick child, if he had known it, only the fellow was backward in asking." 
               And above all, he, Judge Wylie, with his idle, extravagant, and pleasure-loving habits, with an old mother to take care of, and a young daughter to provide for, gradually accumulated-not property-but a house full of young cousins, orphan nieces, and unprovided nephews, because he "hadn't the heart" to see the poor things scattered all over the world; and a ward without an inheritance, and an adopted child, who was no kin to him, because he "hadn't the heart" to see them want. Who in all St. Mary's did not love Jacky Wylie, whose boundless benevolence and extravagant expenditures led his best friends, while they loved and admired his entire want of selfishness, to wonder and grieve at his thoughtless improvidence, and fear and prophesy the ruin to which such a heedless course must lead; Jacky Wylie, with the child's heart in his manly bosom, full of compassion, simplicity, and carelessness, the child's wish on his laughing lip; "only to have a great many happy faces around him all the time;" and the child's faith in taking no thought for the morrow. 
               "God save our souls!" he would reply to those who would venture to expostulate with him, "what have we to do with the future? It is the Lord's," raising his hat reverently, "let the Lord take care of His own! As for me, I mean to be a grateful and trustful steward of all the good things my Master has given me for myself and others, and I mean to be as happy as ever I can, and make others as happy as ever I can, as long as ever the means will last. D-- if I don't! Don't make me swear. It seems to me the Lord has a time of it, trying to make some people comfortable. I do think that if Omnipotence could get discouraged, the Lord would, even when He gives people a plenty for the present, they turn to Him a greedy, grasping look, and murmur, 'More!' or a sour, suspicious look, and whine, 'Future!' May the Lord deliver us from ingratitude and distrust. No, friend! If I spend my means on vice, you might reasonably croak; but on my own flesh and blood, on my friends and neighbours, and on the needy. Pooh! Don't let's talk of it any more!" 
               The Judge was on the elephantine scale of size-tall, stout, and fleshy-with clear cut, massive features, fair, white complexion-soft, flaxen hair and whiskers-large, clear, merry, blue eyes-full lips, that smiling, displayed the finest teeth ever seen, square, even, and regular. 
               He was a union of love, strength, and joy, of all-embracing love, of all-protecting strength, and of all-confiding joy. By some, his boundless trust in God was said to approach presumption, and his "realizing" faith in Heaven, struck others as bordering closely upon irreverence. 
               Once he terribly shocked young Sinclair, when the young pastor ventured, in the most delicate and respectful manner, to suggest, that it might possibly be thought "inconsistent" for a church member to kneel at the communion altar on Sunday, and give an oyster-supper, and keep up the frolicking all night Monday. And he answered, 
               "The Lord love you, Mr. Sinclair! that comes of your black coat, and your theological education. Can't you put nature and the Bible, creation and revelation together, and draw your own inferences? Is not nature glad, in the sight of God, always? Were not the people of the Bible happy always, except some heavy trouble oppressed them? Do you happen to know how many times the apostles went on their way rejoicing? Do you recollect what happened when the imprisoned apostle converted his jailor? Did they mope, and moan, and meditate all night; they who were in the happy secret of the redemption? That they didn't! You know they didn't; though I don't believe you ever thought of it. You know they got supper, and thanked the Lord, and made a happy night of it. And now, as for myself, do you think the Lord sent me away from His table, with such a heavy, distrustful heart, that I could not preside at my own? Lord love you, Mr. Sinclair! You have read theology out of musty tomes, in a gloomy study; and I have read my commentaries on the Bible, in the ever changing, ever beautiful face of nature; in the eyes of little children; in the smiles of young girls; in the songs of birds; even in the glad spring of the tiny squirrel; in the fragrance of flowers; in all the beauty, music, goodness, and gladness of the rich creation." 
               "And do you read no commentaries in the dark volume of man's history; in the deformity, the misery, the discord, the sin of the world?" 
               "Yes, yes. Do you? But that is not the point at issue between us. I spoke of creation. You speak of the world. I spoke of God's work; His revelation of Himself in His work. You speak of man's doings, or rather, undoings. God created the earth, and all that live, and move, and have their being thereon, for happiness; but man has made the world for misery." And here would follow a theological discussion, with which I will not weary you, and from which the young minister would retire to read, meditate, and pray, and the host would go off to send Sandy down to rake the oyster bank, as there were "some of the girls' beaux riding down the road, and they would stay to supper." 
               Judge Wylie's religious creed would have been an unsolvable problem to any one unacquainted with the fact of his belonging to the Protestant Episcopal Church. He had been confirmed according to the custom of that church, when he was about fifteen years of age, taking the thirty-nine articles of faith as he would have taken thirty-nine more-upon simple trust! and since his confirmation, I believe he never looked at the articles, and finally forgot them all, except those of the Apostles' Creed, which he repeated twice every Sunday, and six times a week during Lent. 
               During Lent! I wish any number of hungry people had kept Lent with Judge Jacky. He religiously abstained from meat on fast days! but the quantity of good things-best things that were made to supply the place of that one simple article of meat-was astonishing. I think his cook might well have complained that the "cookinary t'ile of thim fast days'ould be the 'struction of her mortal soul!" There were oysters cooked in every variety of manner: stewed, fried, scolloped, devilled, raw, roasted, and made into pies; there was fish of every description found at the time and place: drum, carp, rock, shad, perch, dressed in every conceivable way-baked, potted, stewed, boiled, with all sorts of sauce; there were custards, puddings, pies, and jellies, and everything that eggs, milk, butter, cream, sugar, spices, and fruit could be manufactured into; there were-but ask Aunt Comfort, who, having been sold by Colonel Chester to a trader, was repurchased by Judge Wylie, who "hadn't the heart" to see the poor creature torn from her native region of country. 
               Judge Wylie loved his own church, its ordinances, and above all its liturgy, which he was accustomed to say was the most sublime and exalted composition in the English language; but Judge Wylie also had a warm, cordial appreciation of the excellencies of other sects. "Just look at the Catholics!" he would say, in a fervour of admiration, "does any Christian sect take such care of the children, the poor, the sick, and the vicious as they do? Look at their institutions, their flourishing condition, and the good they do. Don't tell me about what they did in the dark ages; I don't know anything about that; I didn't live in those days. I don't know what they did then, or, what we did then; I know what they do now!" Did any Catholic friend of the Judge feel complimented on the part of his church? If he did, unless he should happen to be a Christian of liberal interpretation, he would be sure to feel the compliment neutralized very soon. The Judge will have been at a Methodist Camp Meeting, and with his large sympathies, warm emotions, and impulsive nature, will have entered into the spirit of their enthusiasm, sang, prayed, abandoned himself to the full inspiration of their zeal and devotion, and, returning home, will swear that he loves the Methodists, d--d if he don't!-that there is some heart, and soul, and spirit in them!-they've got the love of God and their fellow sinners in their hearts!-and if it wa'n't that they were such blockheads in their objections to frolicking, and that his girls and boys would have to give up fiddling and dancing in his house, he would join the Methodists, d-- I take him if he wouldn't!" For I am sorry to say that when Judge Jacky was very emphatic, he would swear, quite unconsciously. It was the bad habit of his time, his neighbourhood, and his class. Why he was not turned out of church for unsettled convictions and profane swearing, I do not know. Possibly, because he was judged by the same liberal interpretation whereby he judged others; probably, because every Sunday morning he repented and confessed, that, in the words of the ritual, he had done those things which he ought not to have done. 
                
               And there was his mother, a gentlewoman of the old school, without any state about her, a Lady Bountiful of the neighbourhood, without any pretensions. 
               Who did not know and love old Mrs. Wylie? 
               I wish I could daguerreotype her as she would come down the great hall stairs, calling to her maids-"Comfort! Comfort! come here, child. Tell Alexander to go and rake the oyster-bed, and pick out the large, single oysters-none of the trifling little bunches-and to bring them to the house. Send Cornelius Tacitus to fish the weir, and let him mind and select the largest fish, and throw the others back. Tell Julius Csar to kill a pig, a turkey, and a pair of ducks. Tell Narcissus to haul on his leather splatter-dashes, and go into the marsh, and see if he cannot get some turtle. If you see your young master, Ulysses, tell him to take his gun, and see if he cannot bring us home some canvass-backs, for I know that Jacky Wylie will be bringing home a house-full of people from the packet. Now go, Comfort, and do as I direct you, and then come back, for I want to give you some more orders for yourself and Portia: for Portia must make some rising for bread, and you've got pound-cake and biscuit to make. Yes, I know-" she would repeat, as she turned away-"I know Jacky Wylie will be bringing twenty people home to supper with him to-night." 
               I will try to picture her as she stood there. She was diminutive, and therefore proud of being mother to a giant like Jacky. Her face was very lovely; round, with softly-moulded features, fair, roseate complexion, mild blue eyes, and silvery white hair, parted evenly over her smooth forehead-for her forehead was smooth as a child's-her few wrinkles were in the cheeks, and looked like mellowed dimples, as, indeed, they were; her beautiful face was old with smiles, not with frowns or thought; her silvery hair was surmounted by a high-crowned cap, with deep-laced lappets, falling on her full, soft bosom. She wore a black satin gown, with a long-waisted bodice, open at the top, to show the inside kerchief, of clear muslin-with long, tight sleeves, to the elbows, finished with deep ruffles of fine lace-and a voluminous skirt, open, and tucked up, to show a richly-tamboured cambric petticoat; and lastly, high-heeled shoes, that, with the high-crowned cap, helped the altitude of the little lady somewhat. 
               How she was adored by the large, miscellaneous family Jack had gathered together! To be sure, all Jacky's unprovided nieces and nephews were her grandchildren, and it was partly for love of her, to please her, to let her gather all her second brood under her wing, that her son Jacky collected them. Yes, she was adored by all that household of laughing girls and roystering boys, the tide of whose love and fondness for her was so great that it sometimes overflowed the barriers of veneration-just as Jacky's confidence in God sometimes swamped his reverence!-but most of all was she idolized by the adopted son of Judge Jacky, Ulysses Roebuck, who had so little reverence for anybody or anything else, when going out gaming in a hurry-he was always in a hurry-he would burst into his cousin's chamber, pull out her drawers, tear a sleeve out of the first soft, fine garment he laid his hands on, and ram it into his pocket for gun wadding; would flatly refuse to dance with his cousin when she asked him, and tell his kind benefactor to mind his business, for that he was behind the times: yet would swear, with flushed cheeks and tearful eyes, that he wished his grandmother would only tell him to lie down and let her walk on him, for that he'd do it! Did any one doubt him? Very well, then, let his grandmother only just tell him to lay his head down on the meat-block, and let Julius Csar chop it off with a meat-axe! then see if he wouldn't do it! Yes; with the greatest pleasure and delight! by the great American Eagle would he! Saying which, Ulysses, "Marse Useless," as the negroes perverted his name, according to their amusing habit, would ram the wadding into his fowling-piece with great energy and emphasis, shoulder it, call the dogs, and go birding. 
               Next to his grandmother, Ulysses loved his smallest cousin, little Ambrosia, the only child of Judge Jacky, and the little goddess of the whole household of grown up and growing up young men and maidens. Little Ambrosia, named after her Uncle Ambrose, who had been the elder and only brother of Jacky, and the favourite of his mother, but who had died in his youth. And it was to please his mother that Jacky, having no son, called his little daughter after his brother. And it was a lovely name, too, he thought-a lovely, tempting, caressable name! really better than one could have hoped; for Ambrose was old-fashioned and ugly-low be it spoken. 
               I think the negroes must have conceived it to be a "tempting" name, too; for, with their inevitable fault of corrupting language, they called the little seraph, with her charming face and sunny hair, "Miss Ambush." 
                
               And "Marse Useless" and "Miss Ambush" were the prime favourites of the plantation, notwithstanding, or perhaps, because of, the dare-devil, don't care-ishness of the former. 
               It was with this family, then, that General and Mrs. Garnet interchanged frequent visits. Often the old lady, Mrs. Wylie, accompanied by little Ambrosia and a waiting-maid, would drive up to Mount Calm, in their old-fashioned phaeton, to spend the day, or else two or three of the girls and young men would ride up to pass an evening, and return by starlight. And not unfrequently, young Mrs. Garnet would go down with her little Alice, and pass a day and night at Point Pleasant. 
               There was yet another family with whom the Garnets were upon terms of close intimacy and friendship-their next neighbours, the Hardcastles, of Hemlock Hollow, whose estate joined Mount Calm, lying immediately behind and below it, and extending farther inland. The family at the Hollow consisted of Lionel Hardcastle, High Sheriff of the State, his only son, Lionel, junior, a youth of fifteen, and his nephew, Magnus, a boy of ten years old. 
               Lionel Hardcastle was the only man in the county, with whom General Garnet could be said to be on terms of close intimacy. Their estates, as I said, joined; their rank in life was upon a par, and their county interests almost identical. They were also of the same party in politics, of the same denomination in religion, and of like opinion upon all common and local questions: so that there was very little to differ about, while there was a great deal to attract them to each other in their very opposite temperaments and characters, experiences, and mental acquisitions. General Garnet, who had won such notable laurels in his military career, was comparatively new to the life and lore of tobacco plantations and State politics, and would sit for hours together listening in stately silence, yet with profound interest and attention, to the discourse of Mr. Hardcastle, a veteran in agriculture, electioneering, &c., while Mr. Hardcastle would be delighted to entertain or instruct General Garnet for any length of time, with his greater knowledge and experience. Thus their acquaintance was riveted into intimacy. 
               Mrs. Garnet had always been strongly attached to the family at the Hollow, and though there was no lady at the head of the establishment to receive her, she continued to accept the invitations to dinner extended to General Garnet and herself, and always accompanied him thither. 
               But Mrs. Garnet had her favourite among the Hardcastles-this was young Magnus Hardcastle, the nephew, a fine, handsome, spirited, and generous boy, devotedly fond of his beautiful neighbour, and her sweet little girl. Very often would Mrs. Garnet take Magnus home with her to spend several days or weeks at Mount Calm. And when he was not staying there, still every day would the boy find his way to Mount Calm, with some little childish love-offering to its sweet mistress:-In spring it would be a bunch of wood-violets, or wild sweet-briar roses, gathered in the thicket, and of which Alice was very fond; in summer, a little flag-basket of wild strawberries or raspberries, which Alice loved better than hot-house or garden fruit; in autumn, a hat full of chesnuts and chinkapins, gathered in the forest, and hulled by himself; even in winter the little fellow might be seen trudging on, knee-deep in snow, with a bunch of snow-birds, which he had caught in his trap for pretty Cousin Alice, as he called Mrs. Garnet. 
               Very bright would grow Mrs. Garnet's pleasant chamber, when Magnus, with his sunny smile, would break in upon the pensive lady, and the little child, and light up all the room with his gladness. Very often the lady would open her arms to receive the joyous boy, and fold him to her bosom in a most loving clasp, grateful for the new life and joy he ever brought her. 
               Mrs. Garnet loved her own beautiful and gentle child, but it was with a profound, earnest, almost mournful and foreboding love. 
               But Magnus was a perpetual day-spring of gladness and delight to her. She could not look upon the boy without a thrill of sympathetic joy and hope. 
               No one could see the boy without loving him, or look forward to his future without confidence in it. True, he had no patrimony and no prospects. But look at that fine athletic frame to struggle and overcome; at that massive forehead, even now "prone with mind;" at those earnest, true eyes; at those beautifully formed but firmly compressed lips; at that whole face, shadowy with thought or tenderness, or bright with intelligence and joy; at that whole form and bearing, full of gentleness and strength, of earnest purpose and fearless confidence. Yet Magnus was not what is called a "gentle boy;" no, indeed; out of doors, out of the sight and hearing of the beautiful mother and the sweet child, Magnus was a very rough, roystering, romping boy, as his excess of vital energy obliged him to be; but if ever one child was the slave of another, Magnus was the most docile of slaves to little Alice. Often in the very brightest, gladdest, most tempting weather, he would leave his dear out-door sports, and sit for hours building card-houses, cutting out paper babies, or telling fairy stories for little Alice; but oftener still, he would coax the lady to trust the little one to his care, and lead her tenderly away to the woods and hills. And there was no one in the world to whom Alice would have trusted her child so easily as to that rough, but loving, careful boy. And so the years had passed, and Alice grew happy in their flight, until the second trial of her life approached. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               HUTTON OF THE ISLES. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Thou art as tall, as sinewy, and as strong, 
                           As earth's first kings-the Argo's gallant sailors- 
                           Heroes in history, and gods in song. 
                        
                      
                     -HALLECK. 
                   
                
               THE HUTTONS, proprietors by preemption right of St. Clara's town, bay, and isle, for more than two hundred years, had settled among the Islets of the Bay many years previous to the date of that patent by which James I. granted the province of Maryland to George Calvert. 
               There were many remarkable, almost fabulous points of character about the family of the Huttons. A gigantic, strong, and handsome race of men, they were not prolific. They were said, indeed, to possess the fabled characteristic of the great mastodon-the peculiarity of producing but one of their kind. Thus their name had come down from the earliest records of the family to the time of their settlement in America, through a succession of only sons. Wild lovers of liberty and of daring adventure, the Huttons had, from the earliest times, taken to the sea. They had sailed among the first adventurers to the New World, and settled among the lonely Isles of the Bay. Sea kings of the New World they continued to be from father to son up to the time of the American Revolution. 
               At the commencement of the American Revolution, a certain Captain Hugh Hutton, the then representative and head of the family, fired with an enthusiastic passion for liberty, or-fighting! sold a great portion of his patrimony, and purchased, fitted out, and manned a privateer, and sailed against the British flag. 
               He served gallantly and with various success during the whole period of the war. 
               At the glorious close of the revolutionary struggle, ruined in fortune and riddled with wounds, Captain Hugh Hutton, the sailor-patriot and martyr, retired to the last foot hold of his once almost kingly estates, to the little island of St. Clara's, otherwise called Hutton's Island-there to die in obscurity. 
               A few days previous to his death, he called his only son, Hugh, to his bedside, and enjoined him never to demand-never even to accept compensation from Congress for his services and his losses during the war. 
               "My fortune, my labour, my life-blood were not sold but given to the cause of liberty and of my country," he said, and these were the last words of the sailor-patriot. 
               Hugh Hutton, the son, and now the sole representative of the family, was, at this time, about eighteen years old. Having lost his mother at an early age, he had been taken by his father as a companion in all his sea voyages. 
               He had sailed with him in his first privateering expedition against the British ships. At first as a childish and innocent spectator, afterwards as a youthful and enthusiastic actor, he had figured in all the sea-fights in which his father's ships had been engaged during the whole course of the war. 
               Thus all education, except that exclusively of the sailor and soldier, had been denied him. And thus Hugh Hutton, though tall, strong, handsome, and gallant, like all his race, was yet rude, unschooled, and unpolished. 
               He was faithful to the dying injunctions of his father. With many claims upon his country's remembrance and gratitude, he set forth none. 
               Loving the ocean with the passionate enthusiasm of all his father's nature, he took to it as his natural element. 
               First he engaged in the humble capacity of mate on board "The Little Agnes," a small schooner plying between Hutton Town and Baltimore or Alexandria, as the freight or market demanded. 
               After serving many years in this situation, an unexpected turn in the wheel of fortune gave him the means of purchasing a larger vessel of his own, and of extending the area of his trade and the length of his voyages. This was the death of the old ship-owner and captain with whom he had sailed for many years, and who, dying, left him all his moderate possessions on condition of his marrying his only daughter, then a mere child of fifteen years of age, and constituted him her guardian until the marriage. The heart of the brave young sailor had seldom or never turned on love or marriage-it was not the nature of his free, wild, adventurous race. But when he had buried his old captain in Baltimore, where he died, and taken the command of the little schooner to return home to Hutton Town to find his little ward and wife-then-ah! then all sorts of strange, sweet, solemn, and tender thoughts of beauty, and love, and home, and repose, swarmed about his heart. 
               It was late in the afternoon of a glorious October day, that the schooner, with her crew, put in to the harbour of Hutton's Inlet. Behind them, North, East, and South, rolled out and flashed in the light, the vast and dazzling waters of the sea. Before them, West, was the coast, with the bright little forest-shadowed inlet into which they were sailing. The little inlet, the gorgeous girdle of autumnal forest trees-dark green pines and cedars, scarlet oak, purple dog-wood and yellow hickory-around its banks, the mosaic-like hamlet of Hutton at its head, the brown and burnished hills beyond, the magnificent sky, the mountainous purple, golden, and crimson clouds piled above, were all glowing warmly, richly in the fiery splendour of the setting sun. And all this rich refulgence of colouring was reflected and reproduced in the clear, profound waters below, forming complete, a glorious picture of gorgeous magnificence. In striking contrast to all this warm-hued, deep-toned, refulgent natural scenery, was the cold, white front of a mansion house standing upon a distant hill against the western horizon, and girt around with its old ancestral trees. This was Mount Calm, the seat of General Aaron Garnet. 
               The little schooner, with its white sail, glided swiftly and smoothly into the inlet, and cast anchor near the hamlet. Leaving the vessel in charge of the mate, Captain Hutton took a boat and went on shore. A crowd of villagers, as usual, thronged the beach, anxious to hear and to tell the news, and hearty greetings and noisy questions met him as he stepped upon the strand, and- 
               "How is the old Captain? How is old Seabright? Why don't he come ashore?-though there is evil news enough to meet him when he does come! Where is the jolly old dog, then? I guess he's wanting up at home there?" were some of the storm of words hailed upon him. 
               "Friends," replied the young sailor, shaking hands right and left as he pushed on, "our old Captain is outward-bound to that distant seaport whence no voyager ever returns. Permit me now to go on and break the sad news to his child." 
               "Stay!-poor old man! when did he die? What ailed him?" exclaimed two or three of the most persevering, detaining him. 
               "To-night, friends, to-night at the 'Neptune and Pan,' I will tell you all about it. Permit me now to pass on and take his last letter to his daughter," said the skipper, good-humouredly, elbowing and pushing his way through the crowd. 
               "STOP! What's to become of the young girl, pretty Agnes Seabright? How did he leave his bit of property?" 
               "To-night, comrades! to-night at the 'Neptune and Pan,' I will meet you. You shall have a supper, and drink to the memory of the 'outward-bound' while I tell you all about it. I must go now!" impatiently exclaimed the Captain, shaking off the pertinacious, and hastening away up the straggling street of the hamlet. 
               Hugh Hutton, like all his fathers, was far above the usual height of men-indeed all his characteristics were not only marked, but extravagant; thus he was very tall, broad-shouldered, and deep-chested-very muscular and thin; with a very dark complexion, with black hair and eyes, and very high, commanding features. Honest, brave, and frank, even to rashness-generous even to extravagance-unselfish to the degree that the worldly-wise would call fatuity-yet he had never known a mother's care, a sister's companionship, and his indifference to home joys was as profound as his ignorance of love and of woman. Brought up on a ship's deck by a rough sailor father, he learned to love the ocean, and wild liberty, with a profound and passionate enthusiasm. 
               But now he had a little girl left to him. He must make a home for her, take care of her, and make her happy if he could. This was a very novel duty indeed, and set him very soberly to thinking. The first natural, strange, sweet fancies, that had been awakened by the idea of this lovely, living legacy had fallen asleep again, and left him to his normal, free, glad, but hard, unloving nature. And now the thought of pretty Agnes Seabright fretted him like a fetter. 
               He pursued his walk up-through the village, up-over the hills rising one beyond the other, until he came to the arm of the forest stretching around the base of that tallest distant hill, upon which stood the white-fronted mansion-house of Mount Calm. He pursued his walk on through this arm of the forest, ascending the hill until he came to a small cleared space, in which was a little cot enclosed within a narrow garden, and nearly hidden with trees. He opened the small gate and passed up the narrow walk between rows of marygolds, crimson, white and yellow chrysanthemums, scarlet verbena, and other bright fall flowers, to the little door at which he rapped. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               THE BRIDE OF THE ISLES. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           A beautiful and happy girl, 
                           With step as soft as Summer air, 
                           And fresh young lips and brow of pearl 
                           Shadowed by many a careless curl 
                           Of unconfined and flowing hair; 
                           A seeming child in everything, 
                           Save thoughtful brow and ripening charms, 
                           As nature wears the smile of Spring, 
                           When sinking into Summer's arms. 
                        
                      
                     -WHITTIER. 
                   
                
               THE door was opened by a beautiful girl between fourteen and fifteen years old, not tall for her age, but full-formed and exquisitely proportioned. Her features were regular, with the "sweet low brow," and straight nose and arched lips of the Grecian profile-her eyes were of dark and melting blue-and her dark, rich auburn hair, parted over a forehead of snowy fairness, dropped in a mass of irregular ringlets down cheeks of carnation dye. The idea she inspired was that of the richness and fullness of life. 
               She stood within the door with a smile, awaiting the pleasure of the stranger, whose knock had summoned her. Captain tain Hugh had never seen Agnes Seabright before, so that he handed her the letter, saying, 
               "I think that this is for you?" 
               She took it, and was about in her haste, to break the seal and possess herself of the contents, when her eyes alighted on these words written on the corner. "To make my little girl acquainted with Mr. Hutton, my mate and good friend." Then she raised her eyes from the letter in her hand to Hugh Hutton's face. Then she offered her hand shyly but kindly, while she said, simply: 
               "How do you do, Mr. Hutton? Will you walk in and sit down, and excuse me while I read father's letter? I have not heard from him for so long," she added, as they walked into the parlour. 
               He sat down in a large flag-bottomed chair, and began to draw figures on the sanded floor with a stick, while she retired to an end window to read her father's farewell letter. 
               Captain Hutton watched her growing pale and paler as she read the letter to its close-as she folded it and advanced trembling to his side-as she laid her hand heavily from faintness on his arm, and speaking in thick, faltering tones, said: 
               "Tell me!-I don't-I'm afraid to understand what this means! But, my father! Where is he gone?" 
               Hugh took both her hands in his, while the folded letter fell to the ground-looked full, looked kindly and gravely into her set and anxious eyes, and answered, slowly, 
               "To Heaven, Agnes." 
               He would have held her hands longer, gazed longer upon that beautiful but troubled countenance, as to impart his own strength and composure, but she withdrew her fingers, sank down upon a chair, and covered her face with her hands. Soon between the fingers copious tears flowed. Then she arose and slowly left the room. 
               What was to be done with this young and beautiful girl? To be sure, there was Hugh's own home on Hutton Island, and there was Miss Josephine Cotter, Hugh's maiden aunt-but the home was so poor, and Miss Joe-so queer! There was no knowing how Miss Joe might receive this poor child, so much in need of love and sympathy and care just now. After ruminating a long time, he could think of no better plan than to at least consult Miss Joe upon the subject. So, his hours for the evening being all pre-engaged, he determined to go home early the next morning to break the news to his aunt. 
                
               "You must perceive, Aunt Joe, that I'm in a serious dilemma." 
               "Well, then, here! take this reel, and wind off this hank o' yarn, while I foot my stocking. People needn't be idle while they're talking. More idle time is spent talking than any other way-as if people's hands and tongues would not go at the same time." 
               Hugh obeyed, with a good humoured laugh. At last- 
               "Well, aunt," he said. 
               "Well, Hugh! Now begin, and tell me all over, all about it, for I don't know as I understand it-quite!" 
               Hugh recapitulated the history of Captain Seabright's illness and death, his last will and testament, and finally, the embarrassment in which he found Agnes Seabright, and the relation in which he stood towards her, concluding with- 
               "Now, what am I to do with her, aunt?" 
               "Marry her, Hugh. There is no home open to the orphan but this-nor this, unless you marry her first. You promised to wed her-you mean to wed her-why not do it at once? Will the marriage rite hurt or inconvenience you? Just let the marriage ceremony, which gives you a lawful claim to her, and which gives her the right to live here in this house as its mistress, and which will shut the mouths of the gossips forever-be performed. 'An ounce of preventive is better than a pound of cure,' even in matters of gossip. Then bring her here to me. I'll be a mother to the child. I'll do the best I can for her. I'll make her feel at home, and make her happy, even on this lonesome island. I shall like to have her here for company. And I will teach her economy." 
               "Do not plague her, aunt, no matter how she comes-with your 'economy,' as you call it." 
               "You told me," continued the old lady, seeing him hesitate, "that she had no father, no brother-so much the more reason, then, why she should have a husband! Since you have decided to marry Agnes, the time of the mere ceremony will make no difference to you-to her it may make a great deal!" 
               "But the recent death of her father-" said Hugh, reduced to his last best argument. 
                
               "Yes, I agree that in ordinary cases delay would be proper, but this is one of the cases that would justify a child's being married at the death-bed of her father, which has often been done, you know." 
               "Well, aunt, try to make all things comfortable for her reception. Let me know of anything that may be wanting; and pray do not be 'economical'-my purse is not a very heavy one, but it is at her service-and-the morning upon which I sail, which will be in a few weeks, I will marry her and bring her home. Which is the best room? which will you prepare for her?" 
               "Humph! there's not much of a choice. She must have yours or mine." 
               "Mine leaks dreadfully in rainy weather." 
               "And mine smokes awfully in windy weather." 
               "Well, we must have the roof mended, and the chimney fixed. I will send workmen out to do it." 
               "Ah, ha! go to heaving away your money! Let Pontius Pilate get up there and nail a few pieces of plank on the top o' the ruff, and wedge a few stones into the hole in the chimney. Never pay money away for what you can do yourself. Indeed, now that you are about to be a married man, you must be economical, and, indeed, besides, I do not see the use o' having Pontius Pilate here, lazy fellow, eating so much. He had as well be hired out; then his wages and his board could both be saved. I can do without him. I can row the boat and fish the weir, and cut wood myself. And that's all the use he ever was!" 
               "Who gardens, and feeds the stock, and brings water, and catches crabs, and rakes the oyster-bed, and shoots ducks for you?" 
               "Oh! them little jobs! he does-but that's neither here nor there." 
               "Well, you can't do without him, then." 
                
               The next morning Hugh spent with Agnes Seabright. And after that he visited her every day, until the orphan's tears were nearly dried, and the maiden's heart almost won. Still the sentiment that united them was not love. On Hugh's part, it was that kindly protective feeling which any rightminded, good-hearted man might feel for any defenceless girl thrown upon his exclusive care. On Agnes's side, it was that dependent and appealing affection which any desolate child might feel for her only friend and protector. 
                
               Hugh brought Miss Joe over to see her, and the young girl and the elderly maiden "took" to each other very kindly. 
               "She is a nice, rosy-cheeked, curly-headed little girl-bright and cheerful enough, I can well believe, before her grief came; and she will be so again, I know! Not thrifty though; not industrious; not economical; I can see that: but she is young enough, and I can teach her," said Miss Joe, as Hugh was taking her back to Hutton's Isle after the visit. 
               "Indeed you must not, aunt; you must not tease her by teaching her anything she does not first ask to learn. Poor thing! poor young thing! that bleak isle will be lonesome enough for her, without your-" 
               "It will be everyway better for her, than the village or the country, beautiful as she is, and unprotected as she will be when you are gone. Besides, I will be glad to have her there for company! I will be a mother to her." 
               "Only do not force industry and economy upon her, aunt. She is so gentle! I am too rough and rude for her myself, I feel I am." 
               "I never had a darter, Hugh, and I always wanted-!-no! I mean I never had a darter, Hugh, and never had a female niece, and I always wanted one. So, Hugh, I'll be a loving mother to your little darter-I mean your little wife. Be satisfied with that, Hugh." 
               And Hugh tried to be satisfied. At the end of a few weeks from this time, Hugh found little trouble in persuading Agnes to consent to give him her hand in marriage. 
               For the reception of the bride, Miss Joe was making every preparation which she could make without spending, or as she called it, "heaving away of" money. Hugh schemed "to draw all points to one," so that the marriage should take place upon the very day on which he was to sail for Baltimore preparatory to a longer trip to the West Indies. So, very early on a glorious Autumn morning, while the rising sun was shining splendidly into the chapel windows, the marriage ceremony was quietly performed in the village church, by the village parson. 
               Immediately after the ceremony was concluded, Hugh tucked Agnes under one arm, and Miss Joe under the other, and hurried down to the beach to get them on board of the boat. He lifted Agnes into the skiff, handed Miss Joe after her, and entering himself, laid his hand vigorously to the oar, and they sped down the stream and over the bright waters. 
                
               It was a golden morning; grand, exultant, inspiring! Out before them rolled the boundless, the magnificent sea, with its myriads beyond myriads of waves, leaping, flashing, sparkling, scintillating like fluid emeralds in the dazzling splendour of the morning sun. 
               As he looked upon this scene, Hugh's eyes kindled, blazed. He did not see how sad was the brow of his young bride. No! the sea-king had already risen above the lover. 
               At last the island lay before them like a line of gold. He rowed swiftly for it. Soon they landed on the glittering strand. It was here they parted. 
               "And! be kind to my little Agnes!" he whispered, as he took leave of the old lady. 
               "Now, Agnes-" he said, as he folded her to his bosom, and pressed his first and farewell kiss upon her lips. 
               Then he sprang into the boat and struck out to sea in the direction of his vessel, riding at anchor, at about a half league's distance, and which was to sail with the tide. 
               "Come, Agnes," said Miss Joe, kindly taking her arm to draw it within her own. 
               "Not yet-not just yet! and if you please-just let me watch until the boat gets out of sight." 
               "Honey, it will put your eyes out to try to look upon this sparkling sea. Come; breakfast is waiting for us, I know." 
               "I wish he had only stayed to breakfast with us! I could have parted with him better then, if I had known he had eaten a good warm breakfast." 
               "The tide wouldn't wait, you know, child, and he will get his breakfast on board his vessel. Why, what's the matter, Agnes? I do believe you like him already! I do believe you're sorry he's gone!" 
               "He was my only friend! Since father died I was getting used to him," said Agnes, bursting into tears. 
               "Well! I declare to man, if it is not wonderful! All them Huttons had never seemed to value woman's love, have every one of them always got more than they deserved. Come, Agnes; the boat is quite out of sight now; come home and take a cup of coffee, child; it will cheer you up." 
               "Do you think he is safe on board of his vessel yet?" 
               "Oh, yes, of course! Come, a cup of coffee is first-rate for trouble-cause you see I've tried it! Come, honey!" 
               And Miss Joe drew Agnes's arm within her own, and walked up the isle towards the cottage. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               HUTTON LODGE. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           A snug thatch house; before the door a green; 
                           Hens in the middling; duck and geese are seen; 
                           On this side stands a coop; on that a pen; 
                           A wood-pile joins. 
                        
                      
                     -ALLAN RAMSAY. 
                   
                
               HUTTON LODGE, on Hutton's Island, had been built in the palmy days of the family's prosperity. Hutton's Island lay directly opposite to, and across the mouth of, Hutton's Inlet, and three miles out to sea. Its form was oblong, being a mile and a half in length, by a mile in breadth. The soil was poor, but not barren. The ground-from its sandy beach, gradually arose towards the centre to its highest elevation, upon which stood a sparse grove of forest trees-hickory, oak, elm, pine, cedar, &c. Upon this rising ground, and in the midst of this thin grove, stood Hutton's Lodge. The island was rich in fish, crabs, oysters, and water-fowl. The lodge had been erected as a place of temporary accommodation for the Huttons and their guests, when it should please them to divert themselves with fishing, crabbing, shooting wild geese, canvass-back ducks, &c.; or with celebrating the commencement or close of the season with a fish-feast, or a game-gala. The lodge was of ample size, square in form, and fronted west towards the mainland. It was built of hewn stone, and was two stories in height. The lower story consisted of one vast room, with walls of unplastered stone, and floor of levelled and hardened white sand and clay. On the west, or front of this room, were two large windows, with a wide door between them, looking towards the mainland. On the east, were two corresponding windows and a door, opening upon the boundless sea. On the south, was a great, broad fireplace, surmounted by a wide chimney-piece. On the north, a staircase, leading to the second story. This room had been used by the Huttons as a sort of rude banqueting hall, upon the festive occasions to which I have alluded. 
                
               The second story was divided into front and back chambers, both of which opened into a broad passage at the head of the staircase. The view from the front chamber commanded the mainland, with its inlet, village, rising hills behind, and numerous farm houses. The view from the back chamber commanded the vast and boundless sea. 
               It was to this lodge that Captain Hugh Hutton, of Revolutionary memory, had retired with his sole female relative, his sister-in-law, Miss Josephine Cotter. And here, after his death, had the good woman continued to live. 
               And here was Hugh Hutton's home, whenever his ship would be in port. And finally, it was to this lodge, or cottage, as he called it, that Miss Joe was conducting her young charge, the widowed bride. 
               It was a glorious day, as I said-glorious with sunshine, sun-gilded clouds, gorgeous autumnal foliage, and flashing waters! 
               From the sandy beach where they had landed, their path lay upwards, through a field of corn, rather stunted, but yellow and ripe for the harvest. Beyond this, gently arose the thinly-wooded hill, upon which the house stood, facing them-its dark gray front relieved by the gay autumnal livery of the trees around it-the crimson oak, the golden-hued hickory, the dark green pine and cedar, grouping together like mammoth boquets of gorgeous autumn flowers. 
               As they reached the top of the hill, and drew near the house, they entered a gate, leading into the front yard, and passed up a walk paved with dried and nearly calcined oyster shells, and bordered each side with brilliant fall flowers in full bloom. There was the orange-coloured marigold, the crimson, yellow, and white chrysanthemum, the scarlet and black-spotted wall-flower, the purple verbena, and many others. Over the front door of the house was raised a rustic arbour, or awning, of lattice-work, wreathed with running rose-bushes, now covered with bright, scarlet berries. 
               "This is all-every bit-my work, honey!" said Miss Joe, pausing in pride, to point out the various objects of attraction in the yard to Agnes. "Yes, all my work! This is the fruit of industry and economy! When I came to live on this island, ten years ago, there was not a single growing flower, or garden vegetable, or a stalk of corn, or a fruit tree on the whole island. No, there wasn't even such a thing as a fence put up! Oh! honey! you wouldn't never guess what barbarians rians men are unless you saw a place they had all the management of all to themselves. Such a place as this here was! Oyster shells and fish bones, and goose carcasses scattered all over the ground, from one ind to t'other! Well! what does I do? I takes Pontius Pilate, that lazy nigger, who, ever since he went off ranterpouling and vanderbouzing about the wars with his master, hain't been worth a brass cent-and I makes him first of all clean up the ground, and put all the litter into one pile, to make manure for the yard and garden, as I intended to have. Then I makes my black gentleman yearn his board and lodging by cutting down of trees, and making of a fence, to close in my garden plot. Then I goes to work myself! And the first year I sowed and planted out a vegetable garden a-hind the house, and a flower garden a-front of it. Well! I didn't stop! I got some young peach trees, and apple trees, and paid for them by weaving, and I made Pontius Pilate plant them out for a young orchard, there, on the south slope, at the warm ind o' the house. Oh! I know how to stir about and make idle people work! Then I had that field we came through ploughed, and manured, and sowed with grain in the spring. Well, honey! I wasn't rich enough to buy a cow, and so I bought a cow-calf, and paid for it by knitting stockings; and then I brought it up myself. Well! I was too poor to buy a sheep, so I bought two lambs, and paid for them by netting fish-seines. And I got other stock and poultry, honey, pretty much in the same way. Never heaving of good money away when I could drive a bargain by doing work! Every year I added a little and a little by contrivance and good management. Lord, child! it wasn't for myself I was a doin' of it,-it was for my poor, dear, dead Nannie's child-for poor, dear Hugh, I was a strivin' and a t'ilin'!" 
               "I am sure Captain Hutton must be very much obliged to you. I am certain he is. I have heard him speak very kindly of you." 
               "Lord, child! it didn't cost much-only hard work, and saving and contrivance-and only just to see the end of it! Here's a dissolute desert changed into a right snug place; and then we've got it all to ourselves, too! no interlopers to rob hen-roosts and apple-trees, or steal sheep! To be sure, you may say it does not take much to feed, and clothe, and lodge our little family very snugly, but what it does take, I have made this sandy, barren, dissolute little island fetch! Fore the Lord, honey, the yearth owes us a living, and if we dig for it, we're bound for to git it! Now just see what I makes this little island do! First there's the corn-field, as finds corn enough for meal and hominy for the family, and feed enough for the stock, and some to sell besides; here's a cow that supplies us with milk, cream, butter, and cheese; here's hens, ducks, geese and turkeys, that keep us in eggs, poultry, and feathers; here's sheep that yield wool enough for all the stockings, gloves, flannel petticoats, and shirts, linsey gowns and yarn counterpanes, we ever want. To be sure, honey, this is the way I manage-one year I'll take the wool for socks and flannel-the next year, for a bolt of linsey-the third year, for a yarn counterpane; and all these things, honey, you know will last a good many years! Well! to go on: here's an orchard that supplies us with peaches, apples, and cider; a garden that keeps us in vegetables, and a flower-garden that keeps us in physicking yarbs-to say nothing of the fish, and oysters, and crabs, and wild-fowl, which are the nateral adwantages of the place. Now I asks you freely-can human creeturs want for more?" 
               "Nothing, indeed-you seem to have all the means and appliances of comfortable living," replied Agnes. 
               "Me and Pontius Pilate does all the work. Pontius Pilate cuts wood, totes water, rakes oysters, fishes the wier, shoots ducks, ploughs and sows the ground-cuts, husks, and grinds the corn, beats the hominy, gathers the fruit, presses the cider, feeds the stock, sheers the sheap, and so on. As for me, I do what very few able-bodied women can do. I tend the garden, cut and dry apples and peaches for winter's use, tie up yarbs for sickness; milk the cow, and make all the butter and cheese; card and spin the wool; knit all the yarn stockings, and socks, and gloves; weave all the flannel, country cloth, and linsey-woolsy; make all the yarn counterpanes; cut and make all the clothes; cook, and wash, and iron, and clean house." 
               "You, like Dame Quickly- 
                     'Wash, wring, brew, bake, scour, dress meat, and do all"
                   yourself!" said Agnes, smiling through her tears. 
               "Yes, honey! and take in work to fill up my leisure time, besides. But who is Dame Quickly, honey-any relation of yours?" 
                
               "No; she is not a bit of kin to me, I'm sure; but she is a friend of mine." 
               "A stirring, saving, striving, t'iling soul she is, I warrant you! Does she live about here? I should like to come acquainted with her." 
               "You shall become acquainted with her; but she lives only in a book where I read of her." 
               "Oh, a book! Dear honey, don't read books! They're all lies-and waste time besides! Lord, honey, where's the sense of it? You can nyther make anything, nor save anything by reading of them books; and I hold that all employment by which you can nyther make nor save, is wilful, wicked heaving away of time! I'm a telling of you all this, child, so as to larn you industry and economy. Lord, child, none o' the Huttons ever knew anything about economy! That's why they're so poor. I did think how Hugh, having some of our blood-good, thrifty Scotch blood-in him, would have some. But, God bless his two old shoes, honey, he's a bigger fool for heaving away of money, than all the rest of them put together! Why, child, they say 'three removals is as bad as a fire;' now I tell you the truth-one visit home from Hugh is as bad as three fires; he is so 'structive! What do you think he did, now, for an ensample? Why, last Saturday, while he was a dressing to go over to town, one of his shirt buttons come off, and 'stead o' he putting it into his waistcoat pocket, or giving it to me for safe taking care of, he heaves it out'n the door. Yes, honey, you may stare with surprise! but he did it, as true as I am a standing here; heaved the good horn button right out'n the door! Blessed be my Heavenly Lord, did he! I s'pose I didn't spend less than half a day s'arching for that button, and it was not found-and I don't s'pose it ever will be found! It's lost-clean gone! never be a bit o' use to any body agin long as the world stands! a good horn button, without a single brack or crack into it!" 
               "Was that the worst he did?" very naturally inquired Agnes. 
               "Worst! Lord, child, wa'n't that bad enough? a good horn button as would never have worn out, and he to heave it away! But, child, no, that wa'n't the worst he done. The thing he did this very morning! You see, honey, when his feyther died he had a nice pair of black kid gloves, as he wore to the funeral. Well, when that was over, and Hugh was going to sail mate 'long o' your feyther, I takes the gloves, and tells him long as he won't want sich luxuries on the briny sea, I'd put them away for safe taking care of. Well, honey, this morning, when he was fixing of himself to go ashore and be married, I hands him the very gloves just as he left them, good as bran new, to put on his hands, when-what do you think! he draws out of his coat pocket a bran new pair of white kids, that didn't cost less than two dollars out'n the store, I know!-and he with one good pair in the house! Oh, Lord! Oh, dear! wa'n't I tried!-Oh, Lord! oh, dear! it gives me a giddiness in the head every time I think of it! It's enough to dishearten and disencourage any poor, striving, t'iling, contriving soul that ever lived!-Poor, dear Hugh!-poor, foolish child! I hope he'll get out'n his 'stravagant ways 'fore he heaves away all the little he's got left, to say nothing of the mite I can rake and scrape together for him. Least ways, honey, you and I must try to save at the spigot if he will keep letting out at the bung. But I've been a tiring of you, child, I'm afraid. Come in, breakfast must be all ready." 
               They entered the only room on the ground floor. 
               This room-parlour or kitchen, as you please-was the very model of faultless cleanliness and order. It was always so; Miss Josephine Cotter, like the inhabitants of sandy regions in general, and those of the Western shore of Maryland in particular-like old maids universally, and herself individually, was fastidiously clean, neat, and orderly. The sanded earth floor was almost as white, hard, smooth, and level as if it had been marble; a blazing wood-fire was roaring in the wide chimney; on the right side of the fireplace, the recess was filled with white pine shelves, adorned with rows of pewter plates and dishes, bright as silver; on the left the corresponding recess was partly filled by a corner cupboard, through the glass door of which shone the clean blue delph-ware cups and saucers. The farther end of the large room was occupied-the one corner by a loom, the other by a spinning-wheel, jack and reel. The sides of the room was filled up with large flag-bottomed chairs, white-oak tables-"white as a curd"-a safe where cold victuals were kept, an old-time chest of drawers, and lastly, at the foot of the stairs a tall, old-fashioned, coffin-like black walnut clock. The windows were brightly clean, though here and there a missing pane of glass was supplied by a piece of paper pasted in its place. They were shaded on the outside with running rose-bushes, that, even at this season, were thick enough for the purpose, and very gay with their scarlet seed-berries. This beautiful substitute for blinds was the result of a little instinctive poetic taste, and a great deal of natural thriftiness, in Miss Joe. She had no idea of "heaving away of" money for curtains, when rose-bushes could be trained to supply their places. 
               In the centre of the room stood the breakfast-table, covered with a very white table-cloth, adorned with some of the glistening blue and white delph ware, and loaded with a very substantial breakfast, consisting of coffee, sweet rich milk and cream, nice fresh-print butter, new-laid eggs, home-made bread, fresh fish, oysters, and a wild duck. 
               Miss Joe embraced the young bride, as she welcomed her to her widowed home, and said, as they sat down to break-fast- 
               "Everything on this here table, honey, except the cutlery, and the crockery-ware, and the coffee, and sugar, is the produce of our own little place; and even the other things were purchased by what was made on our farm." 
               There was a bright mulatto girl attending on the table, whom Miss Joe named as "Symney-ramis," one of General Garnet's gals, whom Hugh had hired, but whom she intended to send home-a threat that she put in actual execution that night. 
               After breakfast, Miss Joe, leaving Semiramis to wash the dishes, took Agnes over the house, showing her first the clean, but poorly-furnished chambers, up stairs, with their plain, pine toilet-tables, and wash-stands, tin wash-basins, and coarse crash towels-with their plain, coarse, blue paper blinds-but, also, with their faultlessly neat, clean, and comfortable beds, covered with blue and white woollen counterpanes, of home make, and adorned with full, light pillows, in snow-white pillow-cases. This is an indispensable refinement among the very poorest of the neat Western-shore people. 
               Then she showed her the loft, with its household wealth of home-made flannel, linsey cloth, blankets, counterpanes, and quilts, packed in great sea-chests; its piles of wool, and hanks of yarn; its bags of dried fruit, and bunches of dried herbs, hanging against the wall; and many other things, too numerous to mention. 
               Then coming down, and leaving the house, she showed her all over the grounds-into the garden; through the orchard; back, by way of the poultry-yard; into the corn-loft; into the root-house, where potatoes, turnips, &c., &c., were kept during winter; through every place, into every place. 
               Finally coming back to the house, Miss Joe excused herself, went up stairs, and laying off and putting carefully away her best Sunday gown of new, brown calico, and her Sunday cap of clear muslin, reappeared below in her every day suit, consisting of a striped yarn petticoat, and white cotton short-gown, apron, and cap, and sheep-skin mittens. She drew out the great wheel, and a pile of wool rolls, preparatory to spinning, but looking at Agnes, and seeing her silent and sad, she said, 
               "Honey, you look lonesome. Can you card?" 
               "No, ma'am." 
               "Dear me! can you reel? any body can do that!" 
               "Yes, I can do that." 
               "Well, honey, go pull off that nice white muslin dress, which is too cool for the season anyhow, and put on something stouter and commoner, and come down here, and I will give you some reeling to do. It will amuse your mind, child; besides, it's wrong to waste time in idleness." 
               Agnes, obeyed and soon returned in a black calico dress-for she wore mourning for her father. And soon the bride was busily engaged reeling off yarn by the side of her protectress, who was turning her whirring spinning-wheel with great zeal. And thus passed the morning of Agnes Hutton's strange wedding-day. 
               They dined alone. As the day passed, Agnes each hour realized more and more sensibly, the profound, the wearying solitude of their sea-girt home-no forms or faces were seen near or far but their own; no voices were heard except their own; when they would cease talking, the sense of silence and solitude would become painfully intense to Agnes's unaccustomed heart; her spirits would have become awfully oppressed, but for the lively and various gossip of Miss Joe. She made Agnes acquainted, not only with the whole history of the Huttons of the Isles, but of the Garnets, of Mount Calm, who had once claimed the landward isle, and named it St. Clara; of the Hardcastles, of the Hollow, who were so wealthy, and of the Wylies, of Yocomoca Point, who were so hospitable and so extravagant. 
               After an early tea, Miss Joe, wishing to raise the spirits of her pensive young protege, ordered Pontius Pilate to get ready the boat, and net, and fish basket, to go and fish the weir, so that Agnes might have an opportunity of seeing it. Then she took Agnes, and walked down to the beach, where Pontius Pilate, with his skiff, oars, net-basket, &c., was already awaiting them. They entered the boat, and were rowed around to the south end of the isle, where the weir was placed. 
               The sun had set, but the western sky was clear and bright, and the moon was high in the east. 
               Miss Joe and Agnes sat quietly in the boat, while Pont fished the weir with a dip net. 
               "You see, honey, if there was only a market nigh for these fish, how much money one could make; but as it is, all that we can't make use of ourselves is so much clear waste. So I never 'low Pont' to take more than two messes. That will do, boy," she concluded, as the basket was about one-third filled. 
               They rowed back to the landing. Miss Joe and Agnes got out on the strand, and Pont set the basket of fish out. 
               "You needn't come ashore yourself, Pont. You have got to carry Symneyramis home in that boat. You stay there, and I will send her to you. When you come back again, and come up home, you can bring the basket of fish." 
               They returned to the house, and as Miss Joe was an observer of very regular and very early hours, she dismissed "Symneyramis," with her blessing; covered up the fire; closed the doors and windows, and telling Agnes they needn't wait for Pont, who slept in his own little quarter, in the orchard, prepared to retire. She showed Agnes into the back upper chamber, and cautioning her about the light, kissed and bade her good night; turning back, however, to say to her, 
               "If anything scares you in the night, honey, rap on the wall behind your bed; mine, you know, is agin the other side o' the wall." 
               Then she retired indeed. Agnes heard her shut her door. She then closed and fastened her own by turning a wooden button. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               THE NOCTURNAL VISITERS. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           How beautiful is night! 
                           A dewy stillness fills the silent air; 
                           No mist obscures, nor cloud, nor speck, nor stain, 
                           Breaks the serene heavens: 
                           In full-orbed glory, yonder moon divine 
                           Rolls through the dark blue depths. 
                           Beneath her steady ray 
                           The lonely island lay 
                           On the calm waters, girdled with the sky. 
                           How beautiful is night! 
                        
                      
                     -SOUTHEY. 
                   
                
               THE large windows of this chamber looked out upon the open sea. The night was splendid, with the full moon and myriads of stars, which were reflected on the broad and boundless bosom of the waters. It was a night "not made for sleep." And Agnes blew out her "dip" candle, and sat down by the window to enjoy the dark, bright splendour of the night; watching the stars in the dark blue heavens reflected in the dark blue sea; watching them dancing on the silver-crested waves; watching the waves as they broke in a line of diamond light against the golden beach of the isle; her fancy wandering perchance over the pathless main to the distant, unknown lands that lay beyond-or following, it may be, only the lone ship that had left that morning-projecting perhaps into the future, and filling it with the airy, gladsome creations of youth and hope. 
               Very lovely she looked as she leaned there, her elbow on the window sill, her hand supporting her chin, and her beautiful auburn hair dropping in bright, tendril-like ringlets down her cheek and bosom. Her face was serenely radiant, as with happiness of a confiding trust. Perchance her spirit ascended to that high world above the shining stars, from which her parents looked down and blessed their child, from which certainly her Heavenly Parent watched her always. 
               How profoundly still and lovely the scene was! no lights; no passing footsteps; no distant voices; no signs of human life; no! for such seemed impossible out here in this lone sea-girt isle! She remained there till she saw a figure of a man, whom she recognised for Pontius Pilate, returning no doubt from his errand, cross a section of the orchard, and enter a little "quarter," which was of course his own. She remained there until the broad, full moon had ascended to its meridian, and midnight seemed almost as bright as noon. It was then, that running her eye along the coast, where the waters met the land in a line of flashing light, her attention was riveted by the sight of a large boat, manned by six rowers, pulling swiftly and silently towards the beach; and even as she perceived it, so like an arrow had it sped, it had already run ashore, and the six rowers jumped upon the beach. 
               Darting her eye out to sea, she discerned the white sails of a brig brilliant in the moonlight, and strongly marked against the deep blue back-ground of the waters. 
               The six men, in the mean time, had lifted something, resembling a very large and heavy sea-chest, and were bearing it towards the interior of the island. Withdrawing her head, so as to be shielded from their observation, Agnes watched them. 
               When about half way between the beach and the house, they turned off towards the north end of the isle, and soon disappeared in that direction. 
               Agnes withdrew her eyes from their vanishing figures, to fix them again upon the boat that was still there, and upon the ship which was still in sight and stationary. 
               Filled with surprise and wonder, she sat watching for the men to return. More than an hour passed, and no change took place in the scene. Once or twice she thought of calling up Miss Joe, that she might arouse Pontius Pilate, to send him to see who these midnight invaders of their lonely isle could be. But she distrusted her own fear and wonder. She distrusted her instincts. She said of herself what she had often had said to her, "I am only 'a weak, foolish girl, frightened with shadows,'" and then, "No! I will try to control myself, and not make a mountain of a mole-hill. I will try to learn a little courage and self-possession. Hugh, who is so brave, shall never hear that the first night I came here I roused up the family in a panic of fear, because a few sailors landed on our isle to--but then what was that great chest for? and why come silently at midnight?" she suddenly asked herself, cut short in her first surmises. Finally-"At any rate," she said, "I will not give the alarm until I see more, and I will watch here till they return." 
                
               But an hour more passed away, and there was no sign of their return. All things remained as they were. The moon, that had been sinking, soon after this went down, leaving the world in that deep darkness that precedes the dawn of day. Now that she could see no more, Agnes almost regretted not having awakened the family. She closed the window, and lay down to rest. But her mind was too excited to admit of sound and healthful sleep. A fitful slumber, full of starts, fell upon her. 
               At last, springing up out of a confused and frightful dream of a surprise, midnight marauders, fire and massacre, Agnes saw that day had dawned. She arose and went to the window, opened it, looked out. The boat was gone from the beach, the brig was gone from the sea. 
               Morning was red in the far east with the coming sun, and red upon the wide waste of waters. Everything was holy and beautiful, cool and still. The calmness and coolness of the morning soothed and refreshed her, mind and body-the holiness and beauty of nature drew her soul to prayer and praise. She sank upon her knees there where she stood, and bowing her head upon her hands, offered up her morning orisons. 
               As she arose and left the window, the rising sun poured a flood of golden glory into the chamber, reproducing the large sunlit windows on the opposite side. 
               And then the chirping, cheerful voice of Miss Joe was heard, as she came up stairs and tapped at the door,- 
               "Come, honey, come! here is a pail of fresh water for you to wash! Come, honey, breakfast has been waiting an hour! 'Tain't my habits to 'low the sun to catch me at the breakfast table, no how! Come, honey, come!" 
               Agnes opened the door, and there stood the brisk little woman, with a wooden bucket of spring water in her hand, looking as if life depended on haste. 
               "I am very sorry you should have taken the trouble to bring me water," said Agnes, gathering her half-combed, long auburn ringlets in one hand, and taking the pail with the other. 
               "Lor', child, that ain't nothing; I ain't afraid of my labour. Come, make haste, honey! Breakfast is all ready, and I want to get that piece o' cloth in the loom. But, honey, I don't think you slept well. Your cheeks don't look quite so much like the scarlet rose-berries as they did yesterday." 
                
               "Oh, but they will soon!" said Agnes, smiling; "they will as soon as I get to working with you. I want you to teach me to spin on the great wheel." 
               "Poor child! It's a pity any one so willin' to larn as you are, should ha' been left in ignorance so long." 
               "Oh, but I have not," said Agnes; "my dear father did not neglect me. He sent me to a day school, where I learned to read and write, and cast accounts." 
               "All nonsense, child! All a pack o' nonsense!" 
               "But no-not quite, I think! I can amuse you and myself, and even Pont, by reading to you as you sit at work, these long, lonesome winter nights that are coming." 
               "Worse than nonsense, child! all old Satan's inventions for the waste of time!" 
               "But then the casting of accounts! I can keep your accounts straight for you." 
               "Not a bit o' use, honey! I can count up on my fingers all the money I yarn and spend. Come, honey, hurry! I'm a going down to put the breakfast on the table." 
               The old lady left the room, and soon Agnes followed her down stairs. They sat down to a substantial meal, more various and abundant than many city families of the middle or even the upper classes can afford. 
               Everything in that region was plentiful, superabundant, except money. The reason was obvious-there was no market and no enterprise. While sipping her first cup of coffee, Agnes said- 
               "Aunt Cotter, something strange happened last night!" 
               "Strange, honey?" 
               "Yes, Aunt Cotter. After you went to bed, as I was not sleepy, and yet didn't wish to waste the candle so, I blew it out-" 
               "That was right, honey! never waste the candle, though it is home-dipped." 
               "And I went and sat by the open window-" 
               "Ah, that was wrong! the night air is considered very unwholesome in these parts. It's very apt to give fever'n'ager. I 'spects you cotch an ager, and that's the reason you look so pale. Yes, that's what happened to you. Well, honey, it's nothing strange or dangerous! It's only onpleasant, and you must go to bed and take a sweat to-night, and to-morrow you must drink chamomile tea to strengthen you-that's all!" 
                
               "Aunt Cotter, I didn't have a chill. I never had one in my life. But while I sat there, looking at the moonlight on the waters, I saw a brig in the distance-" 
               "Well, child, what of that? that was nothing strange!-all sorts of vessels are always going up and down this way, at all hours." 
               "Yes, ma'am, but this brig put off a boat which was manned by six rowers, and they pulled for the strand swiftly and silently, and they landed and lifted out some great heavy weight, like a large sea-chest, and carried it across the isle towards the north end, frequently setting it down to rest, and lifting it again, until they passed out of my sight, toward the north end of the isle, as I said. I watched for their return to the boat until the moon went down, and it was too dark to see. Then I went to bed. I woke up at dawn and looked out, but the boat and the ship were both gone! Perhaps I ought to have waked you up when I first saw it, and told you, but I did not like to arouse you before I had more cause. Now, what do you think of it?-Was it sailors after wood, or water, fish, or what? I'm so inexperienced in this sort of life-and what was that great weight which they carried, and what were they going to do with it?" 
               "Lor', child! how you do astonish me! Don't you know that you fell asleep, and dreamed that? Vessels never come near here-never within two or three miles of here. What should fetch 'em? Long as I've been living here-ten years and more-no vessel has ever come nigh the island, and no boat has ever come, except from the mainland, saving Hugh's boat, when his ship is near. No, honey, you dreamed a dream." 
               "Indeed it was no dream, Aunt Cotter. And now I think of it, this morning, by clear daylight, I think that there may be danger! If any midnight assassins should choose to rob and murder us, what could hinder them, or save us? What could even punish them, and avenge us? We are so far removed from our fellow creatures-so completely cut off from the rest of the world, that we might be robbed and murdered with the greatest ease, and with complete impunity to the assassins!" 
               "Ah! child!-I just wish any midnight marauders would come here to molest us; I'd put a ball through 'em in less than no time! Oh! honey, I don't live here onprotected: you see that blunderbuss, leaning up agin the clock? Beside that, honey, I'm protected like the fairy princess, by a dragon with three heads!" 
               "By a dragon with three heads?" 
               "Yes, honey, but the names of my dragon's heads are Age, Ugliness, and Poverty! You'll say that my dragon can't protect you, but my blunderbuss can; besides which, here's Pontius Pilate, and here's my bull pup, who will soon grow into a terrible animal. But there is no danger, child, never was any; what you thought you saw was only a dream!" 
               "It was no dream," thought Agnes to herself, but she would not contradict the old lady again. 
               After breakfast Agnes stole away alone, and walked down to the north end of the isle, for the purpose of examining the premises. It was a very cold, bleak, and desolate place-all sand, coarse gravel, and large stones-and exposed to the dreadful power of the north wind. She saw no signs of human footsteps, but then it must be remembered that an army might have passed there and left no vestige of their passage on that rugged strand. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               THE MAIDEN WIFE. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           She shrines within her heart's core one dear image; 
                           She thinks of it all day-she dreams all night! 
                        
                      
                     -MARY HOWITT. 
                   
                
               TIME passed. The days were all occupied with work-yes, hard work. All day long the whirr of the flying shuttle, and the dull, monotonous clap-clap of the warp rammer would be heard, as Miss Joe sat at her loom; and the hum of the great spinning-wheel, as Agnes stood and spun. Agnes had no motive under the sun for her industry but Hugh's interest and Hugh's pleasure. To become an efficient help-meet for Hugh-to be an industrious and saving little housekeeper for Hugh's profit. And when Miss Joe praised her docility and perseverance, poor girl, she felt as though she were receiving Hugh's approval. Sometimes she would be tempted to think a little hardly of his having gone to sea so instantly after their marriage; but when this thought took the hue of blame, she banished it at once. But-did he love her at all, when he could leave her so soon, and with so little emotion? She feared not. Would he ever love her as she loved him-as she wished to be loved? She knew herself to be beautiful and attractive. She would have been an idiot not to have known it. In her deep and secret heart, while never acknowledging her purpose to herself, she sought to adapt herself to her circumstances and duties, and fit herself to win Hugh's approval and love. Such were her silent dreams and reveries by day, while her spinning-wheel whirled under her hand, and the incessant clap-clap of Miss Joe's loom sounded on her ear from the other corner. 
               On retiring to her room at night, she would frequently watch for the coming of that strange boat, which, however, never came. She persevered in her vigilance until the moonlight nights were over, and it was too dark to discern any object so far off as the beach. Then she gave over the task. 
               And so November passed, and the greater part of December, when one day Miss Joe Cotter having gone to the mainland, to Huttontown, to buy coffee, tea, and sugar, returned to the isle with a letter from Hugh. It was directed to herself, and not to Agnes. And that the young bride felt as a slight only the more painful because it was unintentional. The letter was merely an announcement of his speedy return home, to spend Christmas, and ended with- 
               "Remember me to little Agnes, and tell her to be a good girl. I believe Christmas-eve is her birthday. Is she fifteen or sixteen, then? Sixteen, I think. Tell her I shall not forget to bring her something pretty. And, aunt, don't tease the poor child with your industry and economy!" 
               Agnes might have felt very much elated at the near prospect of Hugh's return, but the manner in which he spoke of her, with such cruel kindness, very much moderated her emotions of surprise and joy. Soon, however, the slight vexation passed, and Agnes thought of little beyond Hugh's return. She entered heart and soul into all Miss Joe's kind and affectionate preparations to welcome the sailor. 
               At length the important day dawned; it was Christmas Eve's eve. The snow was too feet deep on the ground, and crusted with a coat of ice thick enough to bear the heaviest footsteps without breaking through. The day was cold, crisp, but clear. Miss Joe walked all over the ice with as much ease and freedom as though it had been June instead of December, and she trod grass instead of ice over snow two feet deep. Though Agnes silently foreboded that she would sink through suddenly and break her legs. 
               All within the house was very comfortable. There was an abundance of good things in the cellar, the loft, and the cup-boards-hams and hung beef; oysters and game; home-made bread and cake; sweet butter and cheese; nuts and dried fruits; cider and persimmon beer; and many more things "too numerous to mention." 
               An enormous fire of great oak and hemlock logs was roaring and crackling in the wide fire-place. The hearth was brightened up with red ochre. The literally ground floor was covered over with fresh white sand. The large windows were clean, clear, glistening, and slightly shaded on the outside with the clustering brown stems and scarlet berries of the leafless running rose vines. The tables and drawers were scoured to a curd-like whiteness. The pewter plates ranged on the shelves shone like silver plate. The face of the clock was newly washed, and the clock itself ticked cheerily. The great fat tortoise shell cat sat upon a cushioned chair and purred cosily. The loom and the big wheel were silent and at rest. And Miss Joe herself had taken up what she called her "parlour work," "company work," or "holiday work;" to wit, a reel, and sat in a broad arm-chair by the great fire winding yarn. 
               They were by no means certain that Hugh would arrive that day, though as he had promised to be home by Christmas, every day now increased the probability of his arrival. 
               It was nearly sunset when Agnes went up into her room for the fiftieth time that day to look at the sea for a sail. It was very cold, and there was no fire, so Agnes thought just to give one sweeping glance over the waters, and then retire, when her eye alighted on a distant sail making towards the isle. She wrapped a large woollen shawl around herself, and sat down to watch what might come. The vessel bore down rapidly upon the island. When within about a quarter of a mile and bearing away westward towards the mainland, she lowered a boat with two rowers, who pulled swiftly towards the island landing. Agnes recognised Hugh and one of his crew. She started and ran down stairs, exclaiming, as she burst into the kitchen, 
                
               "Hugh is coming! Hugh is almost here, aunt! I saw him in the boat!" 
               "Is he?" said the old lady, quietly "Well, then, honey, do you take some water up stairs in-in-in my, no, your room for him to wash, while I put up the supper, so that he needn't wait." 
               Agnes complied, arranging everything neatly and conveniently, and then returned to the kitchen to assist Miss Joe in arranging the supper on the table. 
               They had scarcely completed their task, before a sharp rap was instantly followed by the pushing open of the door, and Hugh entered alone, vigorously stamping the snow off his feet. 
               Miss Joe looked at the snow and her soiled floor, and sighed heavily, and shook her head before she even advanced to welcome her nephew. 
               That greeting over, Hugh extended his hand to his young wife with a "How do you do, Agnes, my dear?" and threw himself heavily into a great arm-chair by the fire. 
               Yes! it seemed but too true! the little love Agnes had inspired him with during their short acquaintance had all evaporated during the not-much-longer sea voyage! 
               Would he go to his room and change his dress? Would he have water? Everything was in readiness for him up stairs! 
               "No! He would stay here in this arm-chair by the chimney corner until they should sit down to tea. He did not wish to give anybody any trouble. He begged that they would take none. Besides, he was so glad to see his good aunt and little Agnes, that he did not wish to lose a single moment of their company for the little time that he had to stay with them." 
               Then Miss Joe invited him as soon as he should feel himself sufficiently rested, to take off his overcoat, and sit down to supper. 
               Then Hugh arose, and Agnes quietly took his hat, and Miss Joe drew off his overcoat, and inducted him into his seat at the table. The supper was a feast; besides the usual indispensables of coffee, rich cream, fresh butter, and light bread, there were oysters and wild ducks, stewed fruit, cakes, and so on. 
               Hugh asked Agnes how she liked her island home. This was the first question he had put to her since his return. 
               Agnes answered that she liked it very well. Did she not find it lonesome? 
               "No, indeed." 
                
               Poor Agnes, in her desire to be agreeable, was totally unconscious of her falsehood. 
               Then Hugh turned to Miss Joe, inquiring kindly after her health. 
               Oh! her health was always good, and had never been better than at this moment. 
               When tea was over, and the table cleared away, they all drew around the fire. Miss Joe, with her reel and yarn, and Agnes sitting idle in compliment of Hugh's return. 
               Hugh, on his part, began to tell them of his voyage, of its success, of his happiness to find himself at home again; of a certain large and well filled box which he hoped might be acceptable to his aunt and Agnes. Whereupon, Miss Joe began an exordium on the sin of "heaving away" money, which was gently cut short by Hugh, who, rising up, announced that he really ought to have been back to his vessel an hour before, and that he must now take leave of them. 
               "When shall we see you again?" 
               "To-morrow about noon." 
               "What! not before?" 
               "No; I have to go to Huttontown." 
               "Well, you'll stay when you do come?" 
               "I am afraid I cannot promise you indeed, aunt; but, at all events, I will see you every day, and make it a point to spend the whole of Christmas day with you. Good-night, aunt! Good-night, Agnes, my dear!" 
               He was gone. 
               The next day Hugh came, accompanied by two sailors bearing a heavy box between them, which, on being opened under the supervision of Miss Joe, presented any amount of hetero-geneous finery, equally unsuitable for time, place, persons, and circumstances, and which drew from that careful and thrifty housekeeper a severe and uncompromising denunciation of the sin of extravagance. At the bottom of all was a smaller box, which, being uncovered, displayed a large blue-eyed, pink-cheeked, round-faced, flaxen-haired wax doll, which Hugh took carefully out and presented to Agnes! Agnes dropped the thing in a paroxysm of surprise, vexation, and mortification. 
               Miss Joe threw her hands up, shook her head, and exclaimed: "Lor', Gimini, I think the man's done, tuk leave o' his senses! Oh, my Lor'! Oh, Hugh! you'll bring my gray hairs-"And here Miss Joe broke down, and sinking into a chair, raised her check apron and threw it over her head, and lifted up her voice and wept. 
               "Why, what's the matter now? What have I done?" asked Hugh, looking from Miss Joe to Agnes, and back again. But Agnes dropped her head upon her bosom, and blushed with humiliation, and stooping, took up the doll. Miss Joe shook her head and sobbed the louder. 
               Hugh remained at home for about a week, paying daily visits to the island. After the first few days, it was evident that the charming beauty, genial temperament, and loving soul of Agnes, was really beginning to affect him. 
               On Christmas day, Hugh breakfasted with them; accompanied them to Huttontown to church; returned to dinner with them; and in the evening, by way of diversion, took them on board his vessel-his new vessel-"The Belle Agnes," to show it. After seeing the upper deck and the lower deck, and looking down the hatchway into the hold, and coming up again, and noticing the sails and ropes, and looking into the caboose and the sailors' mess-room, Captain Hugh took them into his own cabin. It was roomy and comfortable, compared to the size of his vessel. The berth was low, and under it the space filled up with drawers. In the middle of the cabin was a table, made fast to the floor-and over it was suspended a lamp from the ceiling. At the upper end of the cabin were two closets, and placed between them was a chest of drawers, with a white Marseilles cloth laid over the top, and a looking-glass hung above it. 
               "All this womanish foolery was none of my doings, Aunt Joe. The cabin remains just as it was when I purchased the vessel from old Captain Gales, who used often to commit the folly of taking his wife to sea with him," exclaimed Hugh. 
               "Do you hear him, Agnes? He calls all neatness and comfort, womanish foolery!" 
               "It seems to me, Aunt Joe, that he calls only unnecessary furniture, like the looking-glass, for instance, 'womanish foolery.'" 
               "Still, it seems to me, that Captain Hutton has not a good opinion of women," said Miss Joe, bridling. 
               "No, aunt, I'm sure he only thinks that what might be very well for women, and quite indispensable for some of them, might be quite unnecessary, and even ridiculous for men." 
               This confab was carried on sotto voce while Captain Hugh was going up the gangway, and turning, stooping, and extending down his long arm, to assist Miss Joe to ascend. 
               After having seen every admissible part of the vessel, the party were let down into their boat, and rowed back to Hutton's Isle. 
               NEW YEAR'S day dawned. It was the last day he had to stay at home. They spent this holiday very much as they had spent Christmas day-going to church at Huttontown, in the forenoon, and returning to the isle to dinner; the only variation was, that after dinner, instead of taking them to the ship again, which would have been stupid, Hugh took them to the mainland, where he hired a sleigh, and gave them a long, fine run over the frozen snow. 
               The next morning, Hugh came early-unknown to Aunt Joe, however, who was out doors giving directions to Pontius Pilate about his day's work. She had returned to the kitchen, and was busily engaged, as usual, at her loom, when she was very much astounded by a noise on the stairs, as of a man's heavy footsteps, and the stair door was pushed open, and Hugh appeared, porter-like, with a great trunk-Agnes's trunk-upon his shoulders, a basket in his hand, and a band-box under his arm, and followed by Agnes herself, dressed in travelling gear, with another basket and a bundle. 
               Miss Joe stared with amazement, without being able to articulate. 
               "Why, what in the name of all the saints in Heaven does all this here mean?" 
               "I am going to take Agnes to sea with me," said Hugh. 
               "You are mad!-you're gone stark, staring mad!" said Miss Joe, turning pale, and revolving, seriously, the possibility, with the assistance of Pontius Pilate, of putting him into a strait-jacket. 
               "Agnes, you're not-no!-you're not gwine away 'long o' that madman?" 
               Agnes shrunk behind Hugh, leaving him to front the difficulty. 
               "Come, Aunt Joe, it is all very plain and easy to understand. I'm not the first man that ever took his wife to sea with him. And I have spent so little time with her, too!" 
               "Spent so little time with her!-well, whose fault was that? Your own-always heying back to your ship! I thought when you'd a got married, you'd a sold the derned old ship, and settled down, and farmed your land like a sponsible member o'society ought for to do! Stead o' which you're a takin' of the poor young gal to sea with you-you iron-hearted, block-headed tyrant, you! She sha'n't go!-she sha'n't!-that she truly sha'n't! I won't let her! I'll 'fend her from you! Come here, Agnes! Come to its old aunty, honey! She'll be a mother to it!" 
               "Agnes, am I a tyrant?" asked Hugh, looking over his trunk and band-box-laden shoulders at Agnes, who was cowering behind him. 
               "You hush!-I won't believe her if she says you ain't! Ain't you there brow-beating of her now!" exclaimed the old lady in a rage. 
               "Do say something to her, Agnes, my dear, for we must be going, and I do not want to part with our good aunt in anger." 
               Agnes came out from behind, set down her bundle and basket, and going timidly up to Miss Joe, she put her arms around her neck, kissed her softly, and said- 
               "Dearest, good Aunt Joe, I love you better than any one in the world, except-but it's I that want to go. I want to go as much as he does." 
               "But why, why do you want to go? It's only a whim. You're crazy!" 
               "I-I-I've a curiosity to see the ocean." 
               "You can see it well enough out o' your back windows." 
               "Aunt Joe, I don't want to part with Hugh; and as he cannot give up the sea yet awhile, why I must give up the land for a bit." 
               "Oh, my Lor'! This is the upshot of my t'iling, and striving, and contriving! When I thought a wife would bring him to stay home, and now, instead of one going to sea to make me oneasy, there's two going to sea-which is twice as bad-and one being a bit of a gal, which is so bad that it couldn't be worse. Them as I t'iled for, too! Oh, my good, loving, patient Lor', give me patience! for it's enough to disencourage any poor, striving, t'iling, contriving soul that ever lived!" 
               Agnes put her arm around her neck softly, and kissed her again in silence. 
               "Judas kisses! Judas kisses!" exclaimed the old lady, bitterly. 
               Agnes burst into tears. It might have been Agnes's lymphatic phatic temperament, but she was rather apt to burst into tears as a last resort. 
               The old lady now broke out into loud sobs for company. 
               Hugh set his trunk, band-box and basket down upon the floor, and set himself to the task of comforting and soothing both. 
               Miss Joe was the first to recover. 
               "Come here, Aggy, my darling child! You have been like a darter to me, honey. Kiss me again. They wan't Judas kisses, honey, none o' them! That was only my quick temper. They were true, loving kisses, from the sweetest lips that ever smiled. Since you will go, Aggy, God bless you, my child! God bless you! I shall comfort myself very well by weaving cloth and flannel, and making counterpanes for you against you come back. Good-bye!" And she embraced Agnes fondly, and lifted and placed in her hands the basket and bundle. 
               Hugh now came forward, and for the second time bade his aunt farewell; and resuming his bundles, trunks, band-boxes, baskets, &c., set out for the beach. 
               "If I'd only known, I'd a' had a cup of coffee ready for you," said the old lady; and she looked really pitiable, as she stood there in her solitude, watching them as they went down to the beach, and embarked on board the little boat, and sped towards the distant ship. Having, with the aid of a spy-glass, seen them embark on board the ship, Miss Joe turned into her lonely home and began preparing her solitary meal. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               THE PATIENCE OF ALICE. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Thou must endure, yet loving all the while, 
                           Above, yet never separate from thy kind; 
                           Meet every frailty with the gentlest smile, 
                           Though to no possible depth of evil blind. 
                           This is the riddle thou hast life to solve; 
                           But in the task thou shalt not work alone, 
                           For while the worlds about the sun revolve, 
                           God's heart and mind are ever with His own. 
                        
                      
                     J. MONCKTON MILNES. 
                   
                
               IT is now twelve years since the marriage of Alice Chester and General Garnet, and six months since the departure of Hugh Hutton and Agnes upon their sea-voyage. 
               General Garnet is absent on an electioneering tour, but daily expected back. 
               It is June, and the scene is the terrace, in front of Mount Calm. There are four persons upon the terrace. 
               Alice occupies a rustic seat, under the shadow of a locust tree. She is still a most beautiful woman, very delicate, almost sylph-like, with her fair, blond beauty, and airy, white muslin wrapper. She is calmly pursuing a piece of fine, white, knitting-work-that favourite busy idleness of all Maryland ladies. At her feet is a very small basket, containing her keys, and the ball of lamb's wool yarn, from which she knits. Near her stands a young, mulatto hand-maid, of about ten years of age. 
               Lower down, upon a step of the terrace, sits her daughter Alice, or Elsie, as she was called, for distinction sake. Elsie is now a very beautiful child, promising to be much more beautiful than her mother had ever been. She strangely united the most beautiful features of both parents. She had the delicate, Grecian features, fair, roseate complexion, golden hair, and blue eyes of her mother, with the passionate, veiled gaze, and bewildering smile of her father. She has a finer vital and sanguine temperament than either could have possessed sessed; a more rounded form, more elastic motion, a more joyous expression, a more gladsome cadence in her speech and in her laughter. Elsie sat sketching an elm tree from nature-the tree stood before her, at some distance on the lawn. She was bending over her drawing-board, that rested on her lap, until her fair ringlets almost concealed her rosy cheeks. She, also, wore a simple white muslin dress, that harmonized well with her blooming beauty. Behind her, bending over her, stood a youth of sixteen; but for height, for breadth of shoulders, and depth of chest, and manly and athletic proportions generally, he might have been taken for twenty years of age. He was a very handsome boy, with bright chestnut hair, waving around a massive brow, and relieving and beautifying its heavy strength, gracefully as foliage shades rock. He seemed to have just returned from gunning, for he wore a dress of forest green, his cap lay at his feet, his pointers were near, and one hand rested upon a fowling-piece, while, with the other, he pointed alternately to the elm tree and the drawing, giving Elsie some instruction in her work. His dark gray eyes, full of thought, truth, and affection, were fixed upon her. 
               And while they pursued their work, Alice, from her rustic seat, watched them. Alice, looking as serenely happy as though her heart had never been broken, her brain never been crazed, by calamity, anguish, and despair, verging upon madness; as healthful, amiable, and self-possessed, as though she had never sworn, in her frenzy, that she could not survive the severance from Sinclair; that neither moral, intellectual, nor physical nature could stand the test-the misery of a life with Garnet. 
               But Divine Providence is kind, and nature is full of remedial power. We have all strength given us according to our need. If our joys are greater in anticipation than in realization, so certainly are our sorrows. 
               Alice, in the terrible storm of passion that had temporarily dethroned her reason, believed that she could not outlive her marriage; yet she had lived twelve years, and was comparatively happy-possibly happier than many a girl who had married for love, or its semblance. 
               It is true, that from the hour she awoke from the strange torpor that immediately followed her marriage, her religious principles had taught her to turn from the memory of Sinclair, whenever that memory recurred. She prayed against, she strove against it, wrenched her thoughts forcibly from it, and riveted them to something else. And her prayers and struggles had produced this happy effect:-the image of Sinclair had faded away with the brightest visions of her girlhood. And now that that typhoon of youthful passion had long passed, and even its memory had almost faded away, her genial, affectionate, religious nature made her happy. With such a nature, Alice could not live without forming attachments, to those around her. He must have been a terrible brute who could not have been blessed with some portion of her affection, by simply living in the house with her for twelve years. And General Garnet was not exactly a brute. He was very handsome, graceful, and accomplished, and habitually polite. And now that time had long worn out his jealousy, he had ceased all undignified and ungentleman-like interference with his wife's especially feminine occupations and associations. Alice was happy with her housekeeping, her garden, her dairy, her country neighbours, her favourite Magnus, and her little daughter. Yet, had the Angel of Destiny whispered to her heart this alternative-"Your daughter! two fates await her-to die in her childhood, or live to be an unwilling bride-choose for her!" Alice would have answered with a shudder, and without a moment's hesitation, "Let her die in her childhood rather. Let her die now rather!" And to have saved her from the misery of wedding one she could not love, Alice would have been content to lay her heart's only treasure, her idolized child, in the grave. 
               But no such question of Destiny had yet called back the memory of the past, and Alice was happy, as she drew out her knitting-needle, and smiled at the boy and girl on the terrace. 
               At last the sketch was finished, and Magnus pronounced it perfect, and threw his shoulders back with a yawn of relief, and brought his hands together with a ring, exclaiming, as he turned to Alice, 
               "Now, cousin, let me order the horses, and let us ride at once to the beach. I have a fine boat there, and can put you and Elsie over to Hutton Isle in less than no time, so that you will have two or three hours to spend there to see about-what was it you wanted to see about, cousin Alice?" 
               "Getting some fine wool dyed for striping yarn counterpanes." 
               "Oh! and 'Aunt Joe' has the receipt-exactly. Well, we can gallop to the beach in fifteen minutes, and I can put you over to the isle in half-an-hour, so that you will have plenty of time." 
               "Mamma only wants to go over and cheer the old lady," said Elsie, with an arch smile. 
               "Indeed, I want some wool dyed bright scarlet and light blue for my fall counterpanes," insisted the lady. 
               Magnus looked up incredulously, his look seeming to say, 
               "I thought good housekeepers like you, cousin, always had wool dyed at home?" 
               Alice answered the saucy look by saying, 
               "My maids are all very busy-with carding, and spinning, and knitting, and weaving; they have enough to keep them closely employed until preserving time, so that I am really necessitated to get Miss Joe to dye my wool;" and smiling, Alice rolled up her knitting, dropped it into the basket, which was immediately raised by the little maid, and turned to enter the house, followed by the latter. 
               "You must have the horses saddled and before the door by the time mamma and I get our habits on, Magnus," said Elsie, taking up her drawing board, and preparing to follow her mother. 
               "Stop; here's Goliah come from the post-office-with a letter, too-"interrupted Magnus, going down the terrace steps to the shaded avenue to meet the boy. Mrs. Garnet stayed to receive it. 
               "It is from the General, madam," said Magnus, receiving the letter from the boy and handing it to Alice. She opened and glanced through it. Then turning to the expectant child, she said, 
               "Elsie, your father will be home this evening. He will bring with him Judge Wylie, Mr. Ulysses Wylie, Mr. Hardcastle, and Mr. Lionel Hardcastle. He requests me to have supper ready for the party. So, children, you will have to ride without me this evening." 
               "Oh, I'm so sorry, mamma!" "I'm so sorry, cousin Alice!" simultaneously exclaimed the girl and the boy, catching each a hand of hers, and looking coaxingly in her face. 
               She was so like a child herself, with her slight girlish figure, fair ringlets, and blooming face. 
               "Let us stay home with you," said both, pleadingly. 
               "Nonsense, dear children. Go. See about my wool-dyeing. Ask good Miss Joe when she can colour twenty pounds each of light blue and bright scarlet wool for me. I would like you to take her something, only she has so much nervous independence-her pride and temper so quickly take offence. And I'll tell you how you may console yourselves for the loss of my company. Call at Yocomoco-you have plenty of time-and take Ambrosia with you, and bring her home with you. I will send for Diogenes, with his fiddle, and you shall have a moonlight dance on the lawn, while the gentlemen are settling the affairs of the universe in the drawing-room," said Alice, gayly, and kissing her hand to them both, she sprang into the house. 
               Alice was soon busy superintending the preparations for supper. She had a good deal of the pride of the housekeeper and the hostess about her. Every Maryland woman has. 
               And that evening General Garnet entertained his friends to his heart's content. It was a sort of little political party, at which Mrs. Garnet was not expected to appear. 
               Alice, therefore, presided at the children's dance on the lawn. Old Diogenes was "in force," and surpassed himself upon the violin. 
               After supper, Lionel and Ulysses left the grave conclave of politicians to the discussion of Congress and canvass-back ducks, and came out upon the green. 
               Lionel was full of the new good-fortune that had befallen him. The dearest wish of his life was gratified; his father had at last obtained for him a midshipman's warrant, and he was going to sea. Alice looked at the wild and wilful youth with much anxiety, and wished in her heart that it might have been otherwise; that he might have been forced to stay under his father's protection and surveillance. 
               Lionel also, in his frank off-hand manner, informed his Cousin Magnus there before them all, that his father had not forgotten him either; that he had arranged with a celebrated physician of Baltimore to receive him as a student. 
               Magnus received this news with feelings of blended pain and pleasure-pain at the thought of leaving his dear "Cousin Alice" and her beautiful child-pleasure at the idea of the opening prospect of study, improvement, and independence. 
               Elsie never thought of the evil; she only thought of the good; she threw her arms around his neck, and wished him joy and success. 
               But Alice was much more depressed than the occasion seemed to warrant. Again she caught herself wishing that young people could possibly remain at home. All partings depressed her. The idea of these saddened her. 
               Was the cloud on her beautiful face really sorrow at the certainty of losing her loving boy-friend, or was it the shadow of coming events? Alice sighed heavily as she watched the young people dance. And at an early hour she recalled them to the house, served them with refreshments, and pleading great fatigue, dismissed them all to their several chambers. 
               She then threw herself languidly into the great easy chair, to await the breaking up of the party, and the appearance of General Garnet. She had scarcely had an opportunity of speaking to him since his return. 
               It was not very long before she heard the gentle, cheerful bustle of the departing guests; and the ringing tones of Judge Wylie's voice above all the rest, inviting everybody to Point Pleasant the next evening, for the purpose of meeting everybody else. 
               When the last guest had departed, General Garnet entered Alice's parlour. 
               "Up yet, Mrs. Garnet! have I been so unfortunate as to disturb your rest?" 
               "No, oh, no! I think you were very quiet, for a party of gentlemen-not at all like the noisy parties Judge Wylie gathers. No; I had no opportunity of welcoming you home," she said, rising, and offering her hand. "Have you had a pleasant journey?" 
               "A successful one, madam, which is better. I think that there can be no reasonable doubt that D-- will carry the majority of votes in the districts through which we travelled;" and he smiled his peculiarly charming smile, as conscious that there lay his power 
                      
                        "Of winning, fettering, moulding, welding, banding, 
                        The hearts of millions, till they move as one." 
                     
                  
                
               "So, you had a successful tour? I am very glad." 
               Her next question was a housekeeper's query: 
               "How did you like your supper, and were your guests pleased?" 
               "All was very well, Alice-and, could they be else than pleased, after so triumphant a canvass?" said he, taking a seat, and motioning Alice to do the same. "I have something to propose to you, Alice, in regard to our daughter." 
                
               "Our daughter!" repeated she, with a vague fear creeping over her heart. 
               "Yes, our girl-I scarcely approve the loose, irregular manner, in which her education is conducted at home." 
               "It may appear to you so, because her occupations and amusements are so various; but indeed her habits-all habits, I mean, upon which health and improvement depend-are very regular; and for the rest, human nature itself-health, improvement-require some little irregularity. The rain does not fall, and the sun shine upon set days. See what a bright, healthful, happy, intelligent child Elsie is! Part of that is owing to her habits. She rises very early, breakfasts early, rides with Magnus, or one of the servants, returns, and devotes three hours to her books." 
               "Yes, all that is very well, but there should be a systematic course of study, which I fancy you are not quite competent to direct." 
               "Try me," said Alice; "I have not been idle all my life, nor all my life occupied exclusively with the eating, drinking, and wearing interests of our family. I have found time to cultivate my mind, for Elsie's sake. I have read and reflected much. I expected to be Elsie's only teacher. I have been, hitherto. And I wish, above all things, to continue to be. Then I shall feel better assured of her best good; better assured that her affections will not run to waste, while her intellect is cultivated." 
               "'A little learning is a dangerous thing.' It makes any one conceited-especially, I think, a woman who has few opportunities of comparing her ignorance with other people's knowledge," muttered General Garnet to himself. Then slightly raising his voice, he said: "No, Alice, it will not do. Elsie cannot remain under your tuition. I have other and wiser plans for her." 
               "I suppose," said Alice, in a low voice, "that you are thinking of employing a private governess, or tutor. Well! if you think it best-" 
               "No, Alice, I have no faith in governesses, and I totally disapprove of private tutors for young ladies. My intention is to send Elsie to a boarding-school for the next six or seven years." 
               "To boarding-school for seven years! Elsie! my darling! my only one! away from me for so long! She!-so young!- to go among total strangers for so long! no, you cannot mean it!" exclaimed Alice, rising and wringing her hands. 
               "Sit down, Mrs. Garnet, and listen to me." 
               Alice sank into her seat again, and listened. 
               "There is no female academy of the first class in this country, I am sorry to say; none, at least, at which I should like to place our only daughter." 
               Alice's hopes raised; she thought she might have misunderstood what he had said before-her mind was so confused. She hastened to say, 
               "Oh, then, you are thinking of some very accomplished woman, or some highly intellectual graduate of William and Mary, who, though not exactly an ordinary governess or tutor, may be induced to come and take charge of one little girl for a very liberal salary?" 
               General Garnet waived his hand impatiently. 
               "Hear me out, if you please, Mrs. Garnet. I have told you that I dislike private tutors and governesses! I dislike the idea of a stranger domesticated in the house very much. I said, besides, that there was no boarding-school in the country to which I could care to trust our daughter. I intend to send Elsie to England." 
               "To England!" murmured Alice, in an inaudible voice, growing very pale, and sinking back in her chair. 
               "Yes, to England. My friend, General A--, is going out there as minister. He takes all his family, of course. He expects to remain abroad many years. In talking over with me his prospects, among other things for which he congratulated himself, was the opportunity that his residence abroad would afford of giving his daughters a very superior education. While we conversed, I spoke of Alice, regetting the limited means of female education afforded by our country. Well, he proposed that I should commit my daughter to his charge, to go to England, and be put to school with his own. He pressed this favour very earnestly upon me. The opportunity was one not likely to occur again, and therefore not to be likely thrown away. Finally, I accepted his offer. It was all arranged between us. The embassy sails from Baltimore in two weeks, and before that time Elsie must be ready to join the family." 
               "In two weeks!" repeated Alice, in a sinking voice. 
               "Yes, in two weeks; so that we shall have to be expeditious. I shall have to take you and Elsie up to Baltimore almost immediately, to give you an opportunity of fitting her out for the voyage. It was upon this account that I opened the subject to-night. I wish you and Elsie to be ready to accompany me to Baltimore in the packet of the day after to-morrow. Now I have to go and write letters before I sleep; but you look very pale, Alice; you must retire instantly. Good-night!" So saying, General Garnet arose, passed into the adjoining library, and closed the door after him. Alice started up with the intention of following him, but feeling that this would offend him then, she sank back in her chair, clasping her hands together, and crying, "Oh, good Lord! is there no way to help this!" Soon gathering strength, she retired to her own chamber. 
               The mother and daughter occupied the same suite of apartments. That is to say, the mother occupied the right-hand front chamber, while the back one, once used as a dressing-room, was now appropriated to Elsie as her own apartment. 
               Alice entered her chamber, but weary as she was she could not rest-she could not even breathe freely. She took off her tight dress, and threw on a loose, white wrapper, and walked about uneasily. Presently she passed into her daughter's chamber. She glided to Elsie's bedside. The child was sleeping sweetly; her rosy cheek resting upon her moist, golden hair-her rosy arms thrown over her head, and almost breathing themselves, they seemed so full of life and warmth. With a gush of tenderness, Alice stooped over her beautiful child, pressing kisses on her hair, on her clothes-longing to press the full rosy lips, but 
                     Stifling the mighty hunger of her heart,
                   lest she should disturb the happy sleeper. She dropped on her knees by her side, and spreading her arms over her, raised her eyes to Heaven in mournful love and prayer. And there she knelt, watching the beautiful and happy sleeper, and breathing blessings upon her, until the step of General Garnet sounded on the stairs, when she arose, lightly kissed her brow, and glided away. 
               As Alice left the chamber of her child, it occurred to her, for the first time in her life, strenuously to oppose her husband's will. 
               As she re-entered her own room, General Garnet was standing before the mirror, taking off his cravat. 
               He turned around with one of his fascinating smiles, as she went up to his side, and raised her eyes pleadingly to his. 
                
               "Well, Alice, what is it?" 
               "I came to say something to you about your project of sending Elsie away. She is too young, poor little thing, to be sent away from home, to such a great distance, and among entire strangers-it will break her heart almost, indeed it will. Or else her affections will be weaned from us, and her heart grow so hard, so hard and cold! Oh! do not send her away from all she loves, so suddenly. The education of the head is not all in all for a girl; the heart has some claims-I think the greatest claims." And so she talked, and pleaded, and wept-thinking that because General Garnet listened to her with attention, she was making some impression. 
               But General Garnet was a gentleman who could unite the most polished suavity of manner with the most cruel inflexibility of purpose. 
               At the end of all Alice's arguments, tears, and prayers, he let her know, in the most polite manner possible, that her experience was very limited-her opinions, therefore, very erroneous, and her view of the present question entirely wrong. Finally, that his purpose remained, and would remain, unchanged. And Alice retired with one dread thought, like nightmare, oppressing her heart and brain-the thought that very soon the ocean would divide her from her child, for a long, indefinite number of years. 
                
               In the course of the month, their departure took place from the neighbourhood. 
               Elsie Garnet, with many tears, left for her English school, under the protection of the American Minister to the Court of St. James. 
               Lionel Hardcastle sailed as midshipman aboard the United States ship Falcon. 
               And Magnus Hardcastle, taking a most affectionate leave of his beautiful friend, Alice, and promising many letters, left for Baltimore, to enter upon the study of medical science, in the office of a distinguished physician. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               ALICE'S VISIT TO HUTTON ISLE. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "At eve a sail 
                           On the blue water with a freshening gale." 
                        
                      
                     -CRABBE. 
                   
                
               IT was a bright evening near the last of October. The mail had just come in, and brought Alice letters, to gladden her heart for many months. There was a letter from Magnus,-that strong, confident, joyous Magnus, who always saw so much good and glory in the future. And there was one postmarked London, and ship-marked "Belle Agnes," from Elsie-that healthful, hopeful, happy Elsie, who always made the best of everything, and was gladsome everywhere. No letter could be more replete with the tenderest filial affection than hers, yet there was not a word of home-sickness, or sorrow, or discontent in it. It was full of genial life, of happy love, and confident hope. 
               Alice kissed the loving letter again and again, and walked about, happy, restless, overjoyed. General Garnet was away from home again, as he was about half the time. And Alice, after she had read the welcome letter to all the confidential servants who loved Elsie, bethought herself-by way of expending some of the extra life she had received-of going over to see Miss Joe, and telling the old lady that her nephew's vessel was in port, for that she had got letters by it. She knew the old soul would also be delighted to hear from Elsie. 
               Alice summoned Diogenes, told him to gear up the one-horse chaise, and take her over to Huttontown. The chaise was soon ready. Alice entered it, and was driven by Diogenes over to the village. She left the chaise at the Neptune and Pan, and, attended by Diogenes, went down to the beach. The afternoon was very clear and calm: 
                     "The air was still, and the water still."
                   and she felt no uneasiness in trusting herself to the little skiff, and the one oar to the old servant. 
                
               As they glided over the silent waters-the profound stillness of the air and water was vaguely disturbed by a distant, deep-toned, solemn moan, swelling on the horizon like the breeze upon a mammoth harp-string, and dying away in the deep of silence. 
               "Did you hear that?" asked Alice of her attendant. 
               "No, ma'am, I heard nothing, Miss Ally," replied the obtuse negro. 
               And Alice thought she was mistaken. The bay was perfectly smooth, yet it seemed to Alice that the vast body of water under them just perceptibly rose and fell, as though instinct with life and breath. The little skiff sped like an arrow across the bosom of the waters, and in something less than half an hour, cleared the distance between the mainland and the isle. The old negro stuck his oar into the sand, and shoved the boat up high and dry upon the beach, so that his mistress could step out dry-shod. 
               "Does not the wind blow around this bleak island even when it is calm along the coast of the mainland?" asked Alice, as she gathered her flapping veil and shawl more closely around her, and stepped upon the strand. 
               "La, no, Miss Ally, ma'am, it never doesn't, of course; dough when der is a win', it has more 'siderable of a clean sweep here than anywhere else. No, Miss Ally, no, ma'am; but de win' do seem for to be a risin'." 
               "Come, let us hurry on to the house, for really it is quite fresh," said she, drawing her veil down over her face and under her shawl, and wrapping the latter more closely around her, and striking into the narrow path leading through the cornfield, and up to the house. But when she had got about half-way up the hill, the wind took her so fiercely, flapping her skirts about her feet, flapping her bonnet and veil about her face, that she was forced to turn around to recover breath and strength. 
               "I can scarcely face this gale! how very suddenly it has sprung up!" 
               "Yes, ma'am," replied the old negro, looking uneasily at the sky; "I-I-mos' wish us hadn't a ventered out! I-I-I do hope us ain't a gwine to have a squeeling, knocking storm afore us gits back!" 
               "Oh, it is entirely too late in the season for an equinoctial storm," replied Alice, following his glance to the sky. "The wind has blown a few straggling clouds up from the horizon, but it does not look at all threatening." 
               "Ah, Miss Ally, you don't know, honey! Der ain't never no good in dem are switchy mare's tails!" replied Diogenes, pointing to the long, black, ragged clouds flying before the wind. Holding her head down, and hugging her shawl tightly about her, Alice pushed on towards the house. 
               Looking up as she reached the top of the hill, she saw Miss Joe with her head far out of the gable end loft window, with an old spyglass in her hand, levelling it out to sea. Miss Joe lowered her glass for a moment, and perceived Alice, and shouted to her above the blast, 
               "How do you do, Mrs. Garnet? Hasn't this here bluff of wind come up sudden? 'Tain't agoing to be anything but a wind, though, I believe. Come up to the house, honey. I'll be down from here about the time you get up. I have just been looking out after that there vessel down the bay, as I think must be Hugh's, seeing I'm expecting him. I spied that there craft about two hours ago. She was making slow headway, because the tide was strong agin her. Now she seems farther off than before. I shouldn't wonder if this gust of wind, with the current, didn't blow her out to sea agin. I hope it ain't nothing but a gust, though, that'll soon be over. The wind bluffs around as if it were agoing to change, too,-then it'll be fair for her, and she'll scud along fast enough before it. Come up to the house, honey! I'm coming down." 
               Alice reached the garden gate just as Miss Joe opened the house door, and came out to meet her-her clothes all blown aslant, and flapping about as if they would go over her head, but looking so hardy, sturdy, storm-proof, with her shining face rubicund with joy and welcome. Alice laughed out to see her. 
               "Dear Miss Joe! you look chirping as a frosty morning! It enlivens one to see you! I have heard of people who, going out for wool, returned shorn. I have come to cheer you, and shall go home gladdened! You look so chirp!" 
               "Oh, honey! I have enough to chirrup me. I'm heern from Hugh and his wife. You saw that sloop in at Hutton's Harbour? Well, that there sloop, she came from the port of Baltimore, where she spoke the Belle Agnes, jest in from Liverpool, and brought a letter from Captain Huttton, saying as he should run down here soon as ever he unloaded his cargo, and took in some freight for this here port. His letter says, how Agnes is going for to stay long o' me now. 'Deed, I reckon she's had enough o' seafaring, a'ready!" said Miss Joe, as she straddled on towards the gate, and opened it. "Come in, Mrs. Garnet; come in, my dear child. You look almost beaten to death with the wind. Your face is right down blue with cold, and your hair is blown all over you, like tangled yellow silk. Is that you, Diogenes? They may well stint your ugly name to Dodgy! I never did see such a lazy, good-for-nothing old nigger, in all my life! No; nor one 'fraider of his labour! Why didn't you take your young mistress up, and fetch her up the hill through this wind, you great lazy horse?" 
               "'Cause young Mist' wouldn't o' let me. It's been twenty odd year since ever I carried Miss Ally about." 
               "Oh, good excuse! never seen a nigger yet, that hadn't one allus ready; keep 'em constantly on hand, as the shopkeepers say. I wish I had the driving of you, that's all. Come in, Mrs. Garnet; come in, honey. You're almost frozen," continued Miss Joe, putting her arm around Alice, hurrying her in, and seating her in the big, flag-bottomed chair by the fire. "You, Dodgy, go to the wood-pile, this minute, and bring in an armful of brush. Come, stir your stumps!-don't you see your young mist'ss's teeth chattering with cold?-don't you see she's a'most got an ague?" Then, turning to Alice again, she untied and removed her bonnet, drew off her gloves, and rubbed her hands. "How deliky you are, honey! jes' like your mother. There, put your feet to the fire, honey; let me pull off your shoes. Bless the little, tiny feet!-they are like dabs of ice. You, Dodgy!" 
               "Yes, ole mist." 
               "I'll 'ole mist' you, if I come out there after you! Are you going to be all day at that wood-pile?" 
               "No, old mist', here I am," said Diogenes, coming in laden and covered with brush, like Malcolm's army under the wood of Birnam. 
               "There! put that on the fire. There, that's a blaze for you! Now, you take that bucket, and go to the spring directly. I want to give your young mistress a good hot cup of tea. Don't you hear me?" she exclaimed, wrathfully, as Diogenes stood there rubbing his hands and wrists for cold. "Don't you hear me? You've got no feeling for your Miss Ally, you old brute!" 
               "Yes, I has. I'm a gwine; sure, I allus did the bestest I knew how for Miss Ally! I'm toted her on my shoulders, and sung her songs, and played her tunes, and told her stories, ever since she was a little gal. An' I'm jes' as willin' as ever I was; on'y I ain't as young as ever I was; I nuthin' now, but on'y jes' a super-naturalated ole gemman." 
               "BEGONE! take that bucket up, and make off with yourself after that water, you old sinner! There, you ain't a bit older than I am, this minute; and you want to sit yourself down in super-antediluvianated old age! For shame!" 
               Diogenes was routed out with the pail. 
               Miss Joe went out into the shed, and returned with a bunch of partridges; she came in blustering like the goddess of the wind. 
               "Lord Gimini! how it blows! It's a'most tuk the skee'rt o' my gown over my head." 
               "Dear Miss Joe! don't give yourself so much trouble on my account. I-" 
               "Lord, child! tain't a trouble, it's a pleasure. If you only did know what a lonely place this dissolute isle is! What a dreary thing it is to sit down three times a day to a lonely meal, all the year round, from the first o' Jinawary to the thirty-first o' December! If you did but know what a comfort it is to have some one come and take a dish o' tea with me! It's more nor a comfort; it's a downright adventure. 'I' by itself-I is the most lonesomest word in the king's English." 
               "But, Miss Joe, I really did not come to stay; I only came to see you, and to ask when you had heard from your absent friends, and to tell you that Hugh's vessel is in port-which I find you know already-and that I had got a letter by it from Alice, who is well and happy, and sends her love to you." 
               "God bless the child! So she is well and happy? Well, to be sure, to see the mercy of God!" exclaimed Miss Joe, taking the bucket of water from Dodgy, filling the kettle, and hanging it on the fire. Then followed a number of questions; which Alice answered by reading the letter. And all this time Miss Joe was not listening in idleness, but flying about, in and out, hearing the news by snatches, driving Diogenes to pick and dress the partridges for the gridiron, while she beat the dough for biscuits. 
               Very soon the neat tea-table was set out, and a repast, delicate and luxurious as any epicure could have desired, spread upon it. And Miss Joe arranged Alice in a comfortable seat at the side of the table near the fire, and as she poured out the fragrant tea, she told all the story of the letter she had got from Hugh. How they had made such a prosperous voyage; how Hugh was going to stay home for three months; how Agnes was not a going away again at all; and how she supposed Agnes was cured of her curiosity to see the ocean. And through all her talk, Alice saw how much family affection was in that old frost-bitten heart of hers. 
               After tea, Alice arose in some anxiety. 
               "What's the matter now, honey?" inquired Miss Joe. 
               "I must go. You must excuse me for leaving you so soon after your very early tea; but that was the only condition upon which I could stay, you know." 
               "But Lord, child-" 
               "Dear Miss Joe, pray do not press me now. See, the sun is not half an hour high; and I must be home by our own supper hour. I have some expectations of the General's return; and it would not do for me to be absent at the moment of his arrival, especially as I have Elsie's letter, which he will wish to see immediately." 
               "But, Lor' A'mighty! does the 'oman think how she can put to sea in that there egg-shell of a little skiff, in such a wind as this? Why, there's Dodgy could tell you 'twould be to the risk of your life. Wouldn't it, you old creetur?" 
               "De win' very high, 'deed, Miss Ally; and dis ole nigger can't swim no more 'an a cork." 
               "Is this so?" asked Alice, with trouble on her face. 
               "Yes; it is so," replied Miss Joe; "but just wait half an hour, honey, till the sun sets, then the wind 'll be sure to lay just as sudden as it riz." 
               Alice sat down trembling. 
               "If the General should come back, and find me gone, he will be so vexed!" she murmured, almost unconsciously. 
               "General Garnet better behave himself! If he says anything to you honey jes' tell him I wouldn't let you risk your life in this gust of wind. So I wouldn't! I'd go and split up the little skiff for fire-wood, first! Jes' tell him I stopped you, and let him come to me. I ain't 'fraid of him! I jes' wish he would come to my castle, with his black thunder-cloud of a frown, or his jack-o'-lantern smile ither! If he wouldn't get as good a whipping as ever he got when he was a schoolboy! If I didn't make my old hickory broom talk to him!" 
               "Come, Miss Joe, you really will drive me home in the gale, if you speak of my husband in that manner," said Alice. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               NIGHT AND STORM ON THE ISLE-CHILD OF THE WRECK. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           The strife of fiends is on the battling clouds, 
                           The glare of hell is in the sulphurous lightnings. 
                           This is no earthly storm! 
                        
                      
                     -MATURIN'S BERTRAM. 
                   
                
               THE sun went down. The wind seemed to lull. Alice arose and put on her bonnet and shawl for a start. Old Diogenes buttoned his coat up to his chin, and took up his old felt hat to attend her. Miss Joe threw her check apron over her head to accompany them, and the little party opened the door and set out for the beach. The eyes of old Diogenes rolled- 
                     "From heaven to earth, from earth to heaven,"
                   in a great trouble! 
               Though the sun had but just set, the sky was no longer blue, but of a lurid, metallic, coppery colour, mottled over by leaden clouds, athwart which, and lower down, scudded huge, black, inky masses of vapour, driven wildly before the wind that had shifted, and was again rising. Lower down and nearer the earth flew other clouds flocks of wild sea-fowl, screaming frightfully, and dashing hither and thither, or settling upon the island as for shelter from the coming tempest. Such was the sky. 
               The look of the sea was still more terrible. The surface of the water was very rough, the waves breaking into foam as though frost were thrown up from the depths of the sea. The whole enormous mass of waters was rising, with a vast, slow, mighty swell, as though some monstrous under power, were labouring to upheave the ocean from its bed, and shatter it into precipices and caverns. And all around the lurid horizon boomed the low, deep, awful sound of the coming storm. 
               "It will never do to try to cross the water to-night, my dear child," said Miss Joe, solemnly and fearfully. "We're going to have an awful storm, and it may burst upon us at any minute." 
               "'Deed, Miss Ally, child, it's wery unsafe! wery! Don't let's be a temping o' Providence! Don't!" said Diogenes, his teeth chattering with cold and terror. 
               Just then the voice of the wind wailed across the waters like the shriek of a lost spirit; and the salt spray of the sea was dashed in their faces. The sky seemed to be settling down over the isle, and the waters, black, heavy, and dark! The mighty sea was heaving, settling, rising to meet the lowered sky! The vapour of the clouds and waves seemed intermingling! The rising wind howled and shrieked! 
               "Well, child, if you venter upon the water this evening, you'll row to the Kingdom of Heaven," said Miss Joe. "Turn, hurry back! We must get to the house as fast as possible, or the storm will be upon us! Child, alive! what are you standing looking out to sea for? I do believe you are more afraid of braving General Garnet's anger than that of the wind and sea themselves." 
               "I should not have come," said Alice, turning, shuddering, away from the beach. 
               By-the-way, this is the manner in which people very often judge themselves and others, very unjustly, by the result. If Alice had got home safe, her heart would have approved her visit of kindness to Miss Joe. But she was overtaken with a storm, and she said, 
               "I should not have come." 
               "Yes you should!" replied Miss Joe, "and now you should come back! hurry! hurry! hurry! Look at that mass of black cloud rushing like a demon up the sky!" 
               It was now very dark, and they hastened on towards the house. They reached it as a furious blast of wind drove them against its walls. They were in the house. Shutters were closed, props were placed against the doors to assist the old locks in holding them against the fury of the storm. And as the room was now pitch dark, except by the lurid light of the smouldering fire, Miss Joe lit a candle and set it on the mantelpiece. Alice sat down in the chimney-corner arm-chair, very pale. Diogenes, who was a Catholic, stood crossing himself. Miss Joe walked restlessly up and down the floor, saying, as the wind would drive against the house, "Oh, Lord! save Pontius Pilate from the stormy waves!" 
               "Whar him?" asked Dodgy, turning around, with his hat still rammed over his head, and his hands still dug into his surtout-coat pockets, "whar him?" 
               "Oh! he is out in the oyster-boat! He's out in the oyster-boat! Oh, Dodgy, you're a nice old man! a first-rate old man! indeed you are. Diogenes, you're a t'iling, striving, thriving creature, indeed you are. Can't you just go down to the beach-you're strong-and get into the boat, and row around to the North bank, and see if you see Pontius Pilate? I'm afraid he's got the sail up. Do go, Diogenes!-that's a good soul!-you were always such a willing soul!-do go, Diogenes!" 
               "Lor' Gor A'mighty, ole mist', dis nigger can't swum no more an a fish!-'deed can't he!-'sides which, he ain't 'fessed hisself to the pries' since las' Easter!-so if dis ole nigger put to sea dis yere night, he no row to de Kingdom o' Hebben, but 'trait to the oder place!-so you see you mus' take a 'side-ration on to it, mist'ess, an' let me off dis time! Oh! Lord Marster Jesus! what a blast was thar!" he exclaimed, as one of unprecedented fury shook the house to its foundation. 
               The storm raged, shriek, and howled around the house. Hourly its violence increased; tenfold the crash of falling trees, twisted off at the roots, the clatter of rattling tiles and shingles, reft off and rained down from the roof, the scream of the frightened water-fowl, the howl of the alarmed cattle, mingled with the shriek of the wind and the thunder of the waves in the grand diapason of nature's wildest, most terrific harmony. 
               Alice sat with her hands clasped upon her knees, and her head bowed, perfectly still, in the arm-chair, in the chimney-corner. 
               Miss Joe, to save time, if she lost Pontius Pilate, the oyster boat, and everything else, sat nervously reeling off yarn, in the opposite corner. 
               Diogenes seemed now possessed of the walking demon, for he rambled up and down the floor to the farthest extremities of the vast, darksome room, crossing himself devoutly, and ejaculating, 
               "Oh, Lord! ef I'd only 'fessed myself to de Pries' yes-day! Ef I'd only 'fessed myself to de Pries' yes'day!" 
               At last, a blast of incredible power and fury stormed the house; shutters and tiles clattered down; a chimney fell, with a terrific crash; the house was felt to tremble with them. 
                
               Alice, shuddering with a deadly terror, crouched down, clasping her hands. 
               Miss Joe sprang up, overturning her reel, and no longer thinking of the oyster boat, or Pontius Pilate, but of the noble ship she had spied in the afternoon, and of her noble boy, Hugh, exclaimed, 
               "Oh, my God! what will become of that vessel?-what will become of that vessel?" and went wildly about the room, unable to sit down. 
               Diogenes dropped upon his knees, lifting both hands to the ceiling, as if to ward off a falling blow, and in a panic of fear, ejaculated, 
               "Oh, Marster Lord! Oh, Marse! Not now! Not now, Marse! Not jes' now! Spare us poor sinners a little longer! Hail, Mary, full of grace! Hooly St. Peter, pray for us, as you was in a storm yourself, you know! All de hooly 'possels and vangels pray for us! Oh, Marse!" 
               "Hush! HUSH!" exclaimed Miss Joe, peremptorily, while wringing her hands; "is it not enough to bear this horrible storm, without hearing your horrible prayers?" 
               But not for Miss Joe, or any other living creature, would Dodgy have bated his breath now. He was a thousand times more afraid of the wind than he was of anything else in the world. 
               At last came the awful crisis of the storm. The wind had 
                     "paused to gather its fearful breath,"
                   and now rushed upon the house with the invincible power of a storming battery, with a sound, a shock, as if two planets had met in fatal concussion. The earth trembled; the massive roof of the strong house was torn off and hurled aloft; heavy blocks of sandstone came clattering down from the topmost wall, and then the rain fell in vast sheets, as if "all heaven was opened." And now came a sound more terrific than that of an advancing army- 
               THE OCEAN WAS UPON THEM IN ITS MIGHT. 
               Spechless with awe, like those in the immediate presence of sudden death, Alice and Miss Joe remained locked in each other's arms. The old negro ran wildly about, like one perfectly distracted, screaming, 
               "Oh, my God! my God! we shall be all drownded in this very house, like blind puppies in a tub! Oh, will nobody 'fess me o' my sins? Oh, Lord! I 'fess to de breaking o' all de 'mandments, rather dan miss absolushum for them as I has broke!" 
               And so he ran about and raved, while Alice and Miss Joe remained motionless, waiting for death where they sat. 
               The water that dashed against the wall was no longer the rain, but the sea; the sea cannonading the house. 
               An hour like an eternity passed, during which the waves, with deafening sounds, stormed the walls, and the inmates waited for death. Then the horrible tempest seemed to abate; the ocean seemed to be retiring. 
               Oh, were the waves indeed receding, or was it only one of those fatal pauses, during which the storm fiend gathered new strength for destruction? 
               Alice, fearful, hopeful, raised her head, doubtful of the reprieve from immediate death. 
               Miss Joe clasped her closer in her arms, but listened. 
               Diogenes stopped in his wild walk, and began to praise all the saints. 
               Yes, the ocean was certainly receding. They were saved! But now, amidst their joy, came a knell of doom! 
               THE SIGNAL GUN OF A SHIP IN DISTRESS. 
               No one knew how often that knell had pealed before. It could not have been heard, amid the deafening noise of the waves, no more than the report of a single cannon could have been distinguished in the thunder of a million others. The sound struck to the hearts of all present. 
               "Oh!" said Miss Joe, "that ship! that ship!-it is the very ship I spied-I know it is-I know it is. And oh! it may be the ship of Hugh!" 
               Again the minute gun boomed over the sea. 
               "Oh, Heaven, how I pity them! What can be the nature of their danger? The storm has almost ceased; if they could live through that terrific tempest surely they can save themselves now. What can be the danger to which they are exposed now?" asked Alice. 
               "The ship, tossed about so in the horrible storm, must a' sprung a leak. Oh, if it should be Hugh's ship!" replied Miss Joe. 
               Again the minute gun wailed across the waters. 
               "And oh!" exclaimed Alice, wringing her hands, "if there is one thing worse than imminent danger or death to one's own, it is to be in perfect safety and to hear, near by, the cry of others in extremity, and to be unable to give them aid!" 
                
               Once more the minute gun wailed across the waters. It seemed the voice of a last appeal. 
               "My God, I can scarcely stand this!" exclaimed Alice, shuddering, cowering, stopping her ears, while Miss Joe walked about groaning, groaning, groaning! 
               But once more the minute gun wailed across the waters. It seemed the voice of a last reproach. 
               The two women, and the old negro, could do absolutely nothing to help the dying ship. They felt their own safety as a shame, and covered their heads to shut out the sound of death. They need not have done so. 
               The minute gun wailed no more across the waters. The voice was silenced for ever! 
               "Oh, my God, my God, she is gone down! she is gone down!" screamed Miss Joe, wrought up to an agony of terror and grief beyond all self-control. 
               The dread silence that followed was more insufferable than the terrific storm, in its utmost fury, had been-than the awful voice of the minute gun, in its vain appeal, had been! It was long after midnight now. Miss Joe, unable longer to bear the awful pause of fate, went and pulled open the door and looked out. 
               The wind had lulled, the rain had ceased, the waves had gone down, the storm was nearly over. Yet in the deep darkness, she could only guess the wild ruin that had been wrought around. The sky hung over the waters black as a pall, yet by the phosphoric light of the sea that still moved and sparkled, she discovered a dark object, like the hulk of a huge vessel, disappear under the waves. 
               And hush! what sound is that, low and distinct, in the deep silence of the awful night? The sound of approaching footsteps and voices hurrying on, and now very near. 
               "Light another candle, for God's sake-some people are coming. God send it may be Hugh and his men! Light another candle quick, and thrust it into a lantern!" exclaimed Miss Joe, hastening into the house. 
               And before the light of the other candle blazed, the room was filled with sailors, storm-beaten, dripping wet, two of the foremost of whom bore the body of a fainting woman in their arms. 
               It was Agnes. 
               "Where is Hugh-where is your captain? My God, where is Hugh?" exclaimed Miss Joe, as her eyes roamed over this wild party, in the vain quest of her nephew. 
               "We left the captain on the deck of his vessel. He refused to leave it while a man remained on board. We are going back for him, and half-a-dozen others," said the mate, looking about in haste for a place to lay Agnes; then putting her in the arms of old Dodgy, he turned, with three other of the men, and left the house for the beach. 
               "Too late! too late! I saw the ship go down myself!" exclaimed Miss Joe, beside herself with grief. 
               "What must I do with this here young 'oman, Miss Ally?" inquired Diogenes of his mistress. 
               "Take her up stairs, Diogenes, and I will go up and attend to her," said Alice. And leaving Miss Joe and the shipwrecked sailors below, Alice followed the old negro with his burden up stairs. 
               But there a scene of ruin met her startled gaze. The roof had been reft from the house in the storm-the rain had poured through the ceiling of the loft and drenched the bed-chambers. One of the beds, however, being in a more protected angle of the room, was comparatively dry. This Alice turned over, and upon this the old negro was directed to lay his insensible burden. 
               While Alice was rubbing and chafing the cold, cold hands and feet of the shipwrecked girl, a loud cry of despair came up from below. 
               She hastened down stairs to know the cause. 
               The mate had returned from a fruitless errand. The Belle Agnes had gone down with all left on board, and among them the brave and generous Captain Hugh Hutton! 
                
               Within the next three dreadful hours, "in night and storm and darkness," a man-child was born-son of the storm and the wreck-heir of a desert and a ruin! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               THE DESOLATE HOUSE. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Alas! It desolately stands 
                           Without a roof, the gates fallen from their band, 
                           The casements all broke down, no chimney left! 
                        
                      
                     ALLAN RAMSAY. 
                   
                
               THE sun arose next morning upon a scene of ruin that defies description. 
               The house was almost a wreck. The roof, the chimneys, and the shutters of the upper story were gone. The windows were shattered and driven in. 
               The grounds also were literally laid waste. All traces of field, and garden, and flower-yard, were washed away. Trees were torn up by the roots, fences were levelled, out-buildings blown down, and all swept away by the flood. Cattle and poultry were drowned, and their bodies carried off by the sea. 
               Yes! the isle was indeed a desert, and the house was a ruin, with the exception of the lower story, which, having been built of stronger material, and being less exposed to the violence of the wind, had remained entire. 
               If the scene without was wretched, the scene within was scarcely less so. 
               The shipwrecked sailors had gone down to the beach for the purpose of searching for the bodies of the drowned men, if, perchance, they might have been thrown up, and of hailing any boat that might pass within hail. 
               Agnes and her child had been removed from the open and exposed upper chamber to the lower one, which was more comfortable. Alice, forgetful of her own fears and cares, bestowed upon the unfortunate young woman the most affectionate attention. Miss Joe, broken-hearted and half crazy, yet still governed by her inveterate habits of order and industry, went about putting things to rights, groaning, wringing her hands, and getting breakfast. Diogenes brought wood and water, and stood shivering and waiting orders without the door. 
                
               Very soon after sunrise, General Garnet, with two of his servants, arrived from the mainland. The wild ruin that reigned around, the deep distress that prevailed within the house, arrested all speech of blame upon his lips. He kissed Alice, expressing his gratitude to Heaven that she was saved. He condoled with Miss Joe, said that he would send over workmen to repair the house, offered any other assistance in his power, and requested to know in what manner he could serve her. But Miss Joe shook her head dolefully, said that she had always lived without alms, and that she could not receive any now; that she had not very long to live, but hoped she should not die a pauper. 
               After breakfast, General Garnet took Alice home. 
               For many days nothing was talked of but the storm and the wreck. And every day brought in news of some disaster that had been wrought by the tempest. 
                
               One day, as Alice sat sewing in her room, General Garnet entered with a cloud upon his brow, and the newly arrived Norfolk Signal in his hand. To his wife's startled look and anxious question, he answered, 
               "A heavy misfortune has befallen our neighbour Hardcastle. His son, Lionel, was lost in the storm of the 28th." 
               "Oh, Heaven!" 
               "Yes, fearful as the wind was here, it was even more terrific farther down the coast. The Falcon, homeward bound, was about entering Hampton Roads when overtaken by that horrible and disastrous tempest. The Falcon suffered frightfully. In the midst of the storm, several of the crew and one of the midshipmen were washed overboard. Here is the full account in the leading column of the Signal. Read it. I must go over and see poor Hardcastle. By the way, Alice, this makes a very great change in the prospects of your young friend Magnus. Hardcastle had no other child but Lionel, and has no near relation but his nephew Magnus, has he?" 
               "No," said Alice, looking surprised at such a question, at such a time. 
               "Hum-m-me! then, indeed, this 'ill wind' has blown a great inheritance to Magnus. I suppose that after his uncle has somewhat recovered the shock of his bereavement, he will recall Magnus. He will scarcely permit him to pursue the study of medicine, now." 
                
               "I think that Magnus will prefer the study of some profession. I am sure that he wishes to live an earnest and useful life." 
               "Well, I do not know a more earnest purpose, or a more useful life, than that lived through in the proper administration of a large estate. By the way, Alice, I hope you have not, with your usual indifference in all things and to all persons, neglected to write to the poor boy during his banishment among total strangers in Baltimore?" 
               "I write to him every week." 
               "That is right; perfectly right. I am very glad to hear it. Apropos, Alice, were not Magnus and Elsie very great friends?" 
               "They were very much attached to each other," replied Alice, with her innocent eyes still dilating with wonder at these queries. 
               "'Very much attached to each other.' Hum-m-me! Mount Calm and Hemlock Hollow would form one very magnificent estate, joining as they do-about ten thousand acres, would they not be?" 
               "Yes," said Alice, abstractedly. 
               "Yes, certainly, that is it. Let us see-how old is this youth?" 
               "About seventeen, I believe." 
               "Yes; and he will marry very early, if he can find a wife to suit him. He will settle very soon, to serious, practical life. He is just the young man to do it. Alice, when he returns, I hope you will not permit him quite to forget old friends. Stay-our Elsie is-twelve years of age?" 
               "Not quite." 
               "Well, nearly twelve-then thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen-four years. Four years will quickly pass away; and our young gentleman can wait that long. At the end of four years, I shall bring Elsie home from school. She will then be sixteen years of age. You were but a year older when you were married, Alice. Say, answer me-you were but seventeen when you were married, were you not?" 
               "I was but seventeen," replied Alice, in a very low voice. 
               And here the conference ended. 
               General Garnet found Mr. Hardcastle in the extremity of grief. He had already received the dire intelligence of the loss of his only and well-beloved son, in a letter of condolence from the captain of the ship. He had nothing new, therefore, to learn from General Garnet, but thanked him for his visit and his sympathy. General Garnet remained with him all day, and until a late hour of the night, when he took his leave. 
               Days, weeks elapsed, before Mr. Hardcastle found courage to summon Magnus to Hemlock Hollow, though, in the mean time, Magnus had written often, expressing his heartfelt sorrow and his earnest sympathy, and entreating permission to come home, and see his uncle. At last, Mr. Hardcastle wrote, and recalled him. Magnus came, and remained over Christmas. Then, his uncle being restored to his usual state of composure and cheerfulness, and being engaged in his customary occupations of agriculture and politics, hunting, fishing, and company, Magnus begged leave to return to his studies. His uncle opposed the proposition. What was the use of his studying a profession now? Could he not be contented to stay at home, and keep a childless old man's company? 
               But Magnus wished to be busy again. 
               "Well, could he not be busy enough overseeing the overseer, and keeping the plantation in order?" inquired the old man, testily. 
               But Magnus was very much in earnest, and persisted in his purpose. Finally, the old man angrily threatened to disown him, and let him go. And Magnus, preferring his profession to any inheritance, departed. 
               But let the reader rest assured, that the old gentleman had not the slightest intention of discarding the fine boy, whom he loved as a second son. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               VANISHING OF AGNES. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           They sought her that night and they sought her next day, 
                           They sought her in vain 'till a week passed away; 
                           The highest, the lowest, the loneliest spot; 
                           Her neighbours sought wildly, but found her not. 
                        
                      
                     MISLETOE BOUGH. 
                   
                
               Do you estimate all the damage that storm did to Miss Joe? Besides depriving her of her beloved nephew, and all hopes of assistance from him had he lived, or his property, had his ship been saved, the storm had desolated her house and farm, destroying all the labour of past years, and all the hopes of coming ones-leaving Miss Joe poor as a pauper, but proud as a princess. She was burdened, besides, with a heart-broken young widow and a fatherless babe. 
               So, after dropping her last tears upon the grave of Hugh, she set herself vigorously to work, to take care of his widow and orphan. 
               The first thing she did was to repair her house. And she and Pontius Pilato did the most of that. She said that the roofless upper story was nothing but a rain-trap, to catch and hold all the water, until it filtered through the ceiling into the kitchen, and so she had that pulled down level with the ceiling of the kitchen, and then that ceiling thatched snugly over, and made weather-tight at least. Thus the lodge was reduced to a tenement of one story, with a marvellous queer-looking roof. She had no place to put the "nice beds and bedding" that came from the upper chambers; but that fell in very well, she said, for now that there was no one but herself and Aggy and the baby, they did not want more than one bed, and one room, and so she could sell the others and apply the money to the purchase of a cow, a pig, a sheep, and some poultry. 
               As Miss Joe indignantly refused all assistance from her neighbours on the mainland, all they could do was to purchase her beds, bolsters, and pillows-which they did not want-at three times their real value, and let her have their stock -which they did want-at one-third of its market price. In this manner the old lady's poverty was served, while her pride was saved. 
               And thus, by her good management and hopeful industry, Miss Joe had made herself and Agnes very comfortable by Christmas. 
               The old soul was very fond of her "baby," and carded and spun some of the very finest, softest yarn, and dyed it with her prime scarlet dye, to knit little scarlet socks for her favourite, and this she called her "fancy work." 
               The large kitchen had a very cosy appearance now. Their large bedstead and bed, always the nicest article of furniture in a Western Shore house, occupied the corner opposite the loom, and from which the now useless staircase had been removed; and then there was the child's cradle, manufactured by Pontius Pilate, and furnished by Miss Joe, and there was Agnes, in her little nursing chair, and, lastly, there was the baby. All this gave the room a home-like look, and Miss Joe declared that the house was really more snug and comfortable and sociable now, and she herself much more happy, than when she had the bare, lonesome kitchen below, and two vacant windy chambers over, all to herself. She had some "call" to get up in the morning now. Besides, it was so pleasant to hear the baby coo, and Agnes talk to it in the night. It used to be so lonely and desolate when she waked in the night, to know, that the salt sea rolled between herself and all her fellow beings-except Pontius Pilate-"and he was a nigger." 
               Miss Joe had her trials attending the new state of things, too. Agnes did nothing but tend her baby while it was awake. And while it was asleep, she had an inveterate habit of sitting in a low chair with her elbows propped on her knees, and her chin propped on her hands, gazing vacantly at the floor. Miss Joe driving, thrashing, and rattling away at her loom all the while, would glance from Agnes to the spinning-wheel, and from the spinning-wheel to Agnes, and lament to see so much woman-power running to waste. And sometimes she would say within herself, 
               "I wonder the gal never 'flects on it that I'm a t'iling and striving for her and her child, and never offers to lend a hand." 
               And this was not that Miss Joe grudged her own labour, the least in the world. Nor could she ever find it in her heart to say one word to "the poor, desolate young creetur" upon her favourite subjects of industry and economy. She merely sighed, and waited for time to restore the youthful widow to cheerfulness, hope, and activity; and she plied her spindle, loom, and reel with double energy to make up for the idleness of Agnes. 
               And so days and weeks passed on, and brought Christmas, when an event occurred of so startling and inexplicable a nature as to fill the whole neighbourhood with wonder. 
                
               It was Christmas Eve. Miss Joe's preparations for Christmas were all made, with the exception of the turkey and the materials for the plum-pudding. Miss Joe's turkeys had all been drowned in the great flood. Now, to have a roast turkey and a plum-pudding at Christmas, was Miss Joe's eleventh commandment of the Lord, and fortieth article of the Episcopal faith. So she took two pair of men's woollen socks that she had just completed, donned her antiquated bonnet and shawl, and calling Pontius Pilate to row the boat, prepared to start for Huttontown to exchange her work with the village shopkeeper for raisins, currants, and spice, and money to purchase a turkey. Snow-clouds were slowly condensing in the sky, but Miss Joe assured Agnes that she would be back long before it came on to snow. 
               And then, full of cheerful energy and anticipation, she set out. 
               Agnes remained in her usually apathetic mood, unheeding the flight of time, until the sudden rising of the wind, and the sudden hustling of hail-stones against the windows told her that a furious storm was coming up. She arose and closed the window-shutters with some difficulty, and lighted a candle, when she found, to her surprise, that it was already seven o'clock. It was high time for Miss Joe to be at home. And now it occurred to the kind heart of Agnes that the good old lady, coming in from the storm, might relish a hot cup of tea. So she threw more wood upon the fire (Miss Joe's forethought had supplied her with a pile of wood by the chimney corner), and filled the tea-kettle and hung it over the blaze. But Agnes knew that if Miss Joe did not come almost immediately, if she had not already landed on the island, she would not come that night. Agnes set the table and made the tea. 
               An hour passed by and Miss Joe had not returned, and Agnes gave her up for the night. 
               At about midnight the storm abated, the clouds broke up, and a few stars looked shyly out as if reconnoitering the darkness. The night was very dark. Agnes, who felt lonely and nervous, and could not sleep, opened the window-shutters to look out, but could scarcely discern the line where the dark waters met the snow-covered beach. The sky hung like a black pall over the island. The deep darkness, the deep silence, the deep solitude oppressed her with gloom and fear. Her form was shrunk, and her eyes dilated by terror. 
               Suddenly, while she gazed, the whole scene was brightly illuminated. Several torches blazed along the beach, lighting up the whole line of coast, and revealing the forms of three boats already landed, and the figures of several men passing back and forth. 
               At the same instant that Agnes perceived them, she felt that she herself must have been seen in the strong glare of the lighted window at which she sat. 
               She started up with the wish to extinguish her candle, when she saw several of the men with torches approaching the house; and, overpowered with terror, she fell in a swoon. 
                
               In the mean time, Miss Joe had very reluctantly been detained at Huttontown, by the utter impossibility of getting back through the snow-storm to the isle. She had passed the night with Mr. Fig's-the grocer's-family, bemoaning the necessity, and lamenting that "that poor young thing would feel so lonesome, staying by herself on the island all night." 
               Very "bright and early" the next morning, Miss Joe, with a fine fat hen-turkey, living, and tied by the legs, and several packages of raisins, currants, and spices, entered her boat and set out on her return home. As she landed on the beach of Hutton Island, she noticed the tracks of many men's footsteps on the snow, and said, testily, 
               "Do you see that there, Pont? Now you see that long-legged Useless Roeback and some o' Judge Jacky's niggers have been here a'ready this morning arter snow-birds. And I wouldn't wonder if he wa'n't up yonder at the house now a bothering of Agnes. Deed, if he is, I'll send him flying off this here island. See if I don't!" And Miss Joe trudged wrathfully on up the hill. 
               As she drew near the house, the sound of the child screaming shrilly struck her ear. "Ah! do you hear that, now? That's because I was away. I knew how that poor young creetur wouldn't know how to tend her own baby," said Miss Joe, more complacently, and hurrying on faster. 
               When she reached the lodge, the scene of confusion that met her eyes nearly transfixed her. Both doors, front and back, were wide open, and the air was rushing through the room. The fire had gone out; the great logs of wood had burnt in two and fallen apart, and the charred and blackened ends were sticking up. The candle had expired in melted grease, which was now spread, cold, all over the candlestick, and down upon the nice white oak table. The bed had not been slept in, for there it was perfectly smooth as Miss Joe had left it, with her own peculiar folds and twists about it. And there lay the baby in the cradle, screaming its little life away. 
               "In the name o' God A'mighty, Pont, what has been a happening?" asked Miss Joe, lifting up the child, and sinking with it into a chair, pale as death. 
               Pontius Pilate stood there with the screeching and struggling turkey in one hand, and the bundle of groceries in the other-looking like a statue of Dismay carved in ebony. 
               "In the name of Heaven, Pont, what has been a' takin' place?" repeated Miss Joe. 
               "Gor A'mighty knows, mist'ess; but I does werily b'lieve how de Britishers is been a landen' ag'in, or else Bonnypart. Chris' de Lor' be praised, ole mist', dat I an' you wa'n't home when dey come. See, now, how ebery ting turn out for de bes'. S'pose that snow storm hadn't a come up, where you an' I been! Good Lor'! poor Miss Aggy! Wonder what's come o' her?" 
               "Yes, what, my Lord! Pont," said Miss Joe, who never in any emergency was known to neglect the plain practical duty of the moment, "go and get the tinder-box, and light a fire quickly, and heat some milk and water for this child. He is almost frozen and almost starved." 
               And Pontius Pilate put down his burdens and did as he was bid. And Miss Joe made the infant perfectly comfortable, and put him to sleep, before she joined Pont in his vain search around the island for Agnes, or some clue to her fate. 
               When she ascertained that Agnes was certainly not on the island, she despatched Pontius Pilate to the mainland to rouse up the people of Huttontown to prosecute the search. 
               And the people were roused indeed to a state of nine days' wonder! 
                
               What could have become of her? How could she have left her sea-girt isle without a boat? Would she have forsaken her child at all? 
               No; Miss Joe was certain she would not; she was too fond of him. 
               Had she possibly drowned herself? 
               No; Miss Joe was sure not; she was too much afraid of dying and leaving her babe. 
               Had she been carried off, then? and by whom? 
               Yes. It was finally concluded that she must have been carried off; but, by whom? That was still the problem unsolved. Inquiries were made up and down the coast, and in every direction. Advertisements were inserted in the papers, and large rewards offered for her discovery, by General Garnet, Judge Wylie, and other benevolent neighbours. For to this sort of assistance Miss Joe made no objection. She considered the recovery of Agnes quite an affair of general interest, as indeed it was. Nothing, however, was heard of her. 
               As months passed, the mystery deepened, and people grew weary of conjecture. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               THE ELFIN GIRL. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           But who is this? What thing of sea or land? 
                           Female of sex it seems. 
                        
                      
                     -SAMSON AGONISTES. 
                   
                
               FOR a time, Miss Joe had grieved immoderately over the untimely and mysterious fate of her niece, and the loneliness of her own lot, and the prospect of a poor and solitary old age before her; but soon, in the native kindness and disinterestedness of her heart, she turned to the child thus thrown upon her exclusive protection, and only hoped that she might be spared long enough to raise him, and see him able to take his own part; for, after all, small, and helpless, and abandoned as he was, he was the last Hutton of the Isles, and the heir of-the little sand bank in the bay, yclept St. Clara's Isle or Hutton's Isle. 
                
               Very strange was the lot and life of the lonely recluse of the sea-girt isle, and her little proteg. Their only possessions were-the nearly barren islet, the dilapidated lodge, a cow, a sheep or two, a little poultry, and a dog. No cart or horse had they, nor even any use for either. The small skiff conveyed them to the mainland whenever, for the purpose of laying in a few groceries or dry goods, or of attending divine service, they found it necessary or agreeable to go. Their faithful old servant, Pontius Pilate, whose duty it still was to till the land, row the boat, fish the weir, rake the oyster-bed, and cut and bring wood from the mainland, was their only companion. The soil immediately around the house being mixed with clay and marl, still yielded, with careful cultivation, corn and wheat enough for the small consumption of the little family. And Pontius Pilate saved money by grinding this in a hand-mill. The little garden produced vegetables enough for their table. And the two sheep yielded wool enough for their winter socks and mits-carded, spun, and woven, by the indefatigable fingers of Miss Joe. And so time passed on, until Miss Joe, not having trouble enough on her hands already, was induced to assume the responsibility of rearing another child; a little wild elf-like girl, whose advent was almost as great a subject of gossiping speculation, as the disappearance of Agnes had been. And the name of this elfin child was Garnet Seabright. 
               The history of Garnet Seabright, as it was understood in the neighbourhood, was very briefly this:- 
               When Hugh was about six years of age, Miss Joe received a letter from a distant relation, living in Calvert county, beseeching her, for the Redeemer's sake, to lose no time in hastening to the sick-bed of the writer, who was most anxious to see her before she died. 
               Miss Joe had to rub her organ of eventuality, before she could recognise in the writer a cousin, a wild young girl of exceeding beauty and wilfulness, who had, years before, eloped with a soldier, a certain George Seabright, a distant relation of Captain Seabright. 
               Miss Joe never slighted any appeal to her benevolence. She shut up house, left the island in care of Pontius Pilate, took Hugh to Huttontown, and left him in charge of Mrs. Fig, the grocer's wife, borrowed a mule, and set out for Calvert county. 
               The house of her cousin she heard upon inquiry was a miserably poor cottage, with scarcely any cleared ground around it, and situated in the midst of a deep, dark forest. It was approached for miles only by a narrow bridle-path. It was near nightfall when Miss Joe entered this lonesome path; it was quite dark before she got near the house. 
               "Oh, good Lord! this is a great deal more lonesomer and more wilder than my sea-girt island they make such a fuss about; for there, at least, I could see an enemy a long ways off. But here! Lord! there might be an Injin, or a bandit, or more likely still, a runaway nigger behind every tree. Get up, Jinny! Hark! Lord deliver us! what was that?" 
               "Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha! Highe! cheep! th-sh-sh-e-e-e-e!" laughed, screamed, chirped, chirruped a sharp, shrill voice, high up in the trees, or somewhere between them and the blinking stars. 
               "Lord save us, what was that?" ejaculated Miss Joe, looking up at the branches overhead, in the direction of the eerie voice. 
               And there she saw, in the dark, bright starlight, in the highest branches of the trees, among the green and glistening leaves, a little elfin face, with glittering eyes, and gleaming teeth, and streaming hair, mopping and mowing at her-chattering, gibing, laughing, and screaming at her. 
               "St. John and all the Holy Eyangelists! St. Mary and all the Holy Virgins!-what's that? It's-it's-a fairy!-it's-it's-a brownie!" exclaimed Miss Joe, bursting out into a profuse perspiration. 
               Miss Joe was neither cowardly nor superstitious, yet when the little elf, with its wild eyes and streaming hair, glided down the tree with the swiftness and celerity of a monkey down a mainmast, and leaped, with a yell of malice and delight, upon the mule, behind her, Miss Joe opened her throat with a prolonged shriek, that might have waked the dead. 
               And at the same time the mule dashed, plunging and kicking, forward. 
               The elf stuck its little hands into Miss Joe's fat sides, and, as the good lady herself afterwards said, clung there like a claw-fish or a crab. The mule plunged madly on. 
               Miss Joe, delirious with terrors real and imaginary, lost all power of controlling the animal, dropped the reins, and must have fallen off, had not the bit been seized by a strong hand, and the mule forced back upon her haunches. 
               "That's Godfather!" cried the elf, in human words and tones, and Miss Joe, looking up, recognised, in her deliverer, General Garnet. 
               The sprite leaped from the saddle to the bosom of General Garnet, and clung there in her crab-like fashion, her little head rubbed, rooted under his chin, her little arms around his neck, and her little figure almost veiled by her long hair, screaming with her inarticulate tones of affection and delight. 
               Miss Joe dismounted from the now stationary mule, and began in an eager voice to pour forth her surprise, gratitude, and wonder. 
               General Garnet, with a look of vexation, tinged with amusement, tried to shake off his little encumbrance. But it was like trying to get rid of a chestnut-burr; for if he succeeded in pulling her off from one place, she would stick at another, screaming with wild delight and elfish perversity, clinging to him, rooting her little head into him. 
               "Come, Netty. Come, come; this will not do; release me. Goodness, child, are your hands and feet furnished with claws?" exclaimed General Garnet, trying to tear of the little human bramble. 
               "Chip! Chip! Chee-ee-ee! H-sh-sh-sh! Whip!" 
               It is impossible to convey, in words, the saucy, defiant, chirping, inarticulate cry of the sprite, as it rammed its head again into the bosom of its victim. Presently the elf sprang away of itself, and perched upon the back of the mule. 
               "How is your mother, Netty?" then asked General Garnet. 
               "Waiting for you and the old woman, too. She sent me after you." 
               And now Miss Joe and the General looked at each other in astonishment, as if mutually inquiring, "You, too?" 
               General Garnet, putting his hand upon the shoulder of the elf, and giving her a slight shake, put her upon the ground, took her hand, and walked up the dark forest path, drawing her after him. 
               Miss Joe took the bridle, and leading her mule, followed. 
               A little way up the path, was a horse standing perfectly still, saddled and bridled, and with a portmanteau on the crupper. 
               General Garnet remounted this horse, and taking the wood sprite before him, rode on up the path. 
               Miss Joe, not wishing to be left behind, tumbled up into her old saddle, and urged old Jenny to her best speed. They soon came to a little clearing in the forest, and paused before the humble door of a log house. The elf sprang down from her seat, and darting into the door, cried, 
               "They've come, Minny! Godfather and the old body, both." 
               "Poke up the fire, and let them both come in, Netty!" was the answer; and presently the sprite pulled open the door with a bang, and stood there with her glittering eyes and streaming hair and naked legs, to admit them. 
               They entered and found the room occupied by two persons: a young woman, who sat propped up in an arm-chair, by the fire; and an old negress, who seemed to be her servant or nurse. The young woman bore a singular resemblance to the elf-like child; but her dark eyes were burning, and her face was bathed with the fatal fires of consumption. She held out an emaciated hand to welcome her visitors, while the old negress set rude stools for their accommodation. The young invalid pressing the hand of Miss Joe, thanked her many times for her kindness in taking this journey, and begged her to sit down quite close to her, for that she could not raise her voice much. Miss Joe drew the stool to the side of the invalid, and begged to be informed how she could serve her; expressing at the same time her perfect willingness to do so. Then the young woman in a feeble voice, interrupted by frequent fits of coughing, said that she felt she had but little time to live-that her days, nay, her very hours were numbered-that after her death she wished Miss Joe to take charge of her orphan child; that General Garnet, who considered himself under great obligations to her late husband, would be at the costs of its rearing and education, and would besides, liberally repay Miss Joe for the trouble she might be put to in taking care of it. 
               General Garnet was there to endorse her promises. He approached them; and taking the feverish hand of the invalid, and turning to Miss Joe, said, 
               "The husband of this young woman was a soldier under my command; he fought under me during the whole course of the war. Once he saved me from death. Once he saved me from dishonour. He received his death-wound-for years after it caused his death-in the same battle in which I won my present military rank. I am under eternal obligations to him; and while I have an acre of ground, or a dollar at my banker's, I will never see his child want!" 
               These words were said to Miss Joe, but for the dying woman, for General Garnet spoke with more real feeling than we have ever seen him betray, and pressed the thin hand fervently the while. 
               "She is a wild, untamed, untameable child, I fear, Miss Joe. A wilful little sprite, but generous and confiding, and very loving, if you can win her wild, shy love," said the sufferer, looking fondly after her child. "She is too much like her mother was, Miss Joe; but teach her to pray, send her to school and to church. No one taught me to pray; no one sent me to school or to church; more's the pity." Here a fit of coughing interrupted the speaker. She recovered from it and resumed: "But I learned to read, Miss Joe, and I have taught her all I knew. Young and wild as she is, she can read very well. But above all things, send her to church, Miss Joe. Let her learn of God." 
               And here the sufferer sank back perfectly exhausted. General Garnet went out to look after his horse; and Miss Joe insisted that the invalid retire to bed. When this was accomplished, and the sick woman had fallen asleep, the old negress took Miss Joe aside, and whispered, 
               "Doctor say she may die any hour, any minit. An' min', whenever she do go she'll die sittin' up, or walkin' about. Can't get her to lie down, hardly to save her life. Honey, she kept walkin' out to de very las'. No longer an' las' week she walk clear over to Barntown to put dat letter in de office. It's perfectly 'mazin' how she do keep up. It's nothin' but her speerits, though. You see her body's all gone; burnt out an' burnt up wid de fever; but her speerits keeps her up. An' min', I tell you, when she go off she'll go stan 'in' up or walk-in' about. Dat dere chile o' hern jes' like her; all speerits. Jes wish you see it go up a tree like a squrrel. 'Deed, I think it's got some wild blood into it." 
               "Look here! hush! tell me how I am to get supper for General Garnet; and where is he to sleep, and where I am to sleep?" said Miss Joe, impatiently, for she was no lover of idle gossipping. 
               "Lor', chile, I'll get de wittels ready time you bat your eyes! Den dere a lof' up stairs where you can sleep, an' as for de Ginnel, he always go over to Barntown to sleep when he come down here." 
               General Garnet now re-entered the house to bid good evening before going away. Finding that the patient had retired to bed, and was asleep, he walked to the bedside, stooped over her, a cloud of pity and regret overswept his face, and he turned away, and without even noticing the other inmates, left the house, threw himself on his horse, and rode away. 
               The invalid died the next morning, immediately after being placed in her chair, where she had insisted upon sitting. 
               General Garnet arrived within an hour after, and took the direction of the humble funeral. 
               Within four days from this, Miss Joe found herself at home with her grandnephew, little Hugh, her ward, Garnet Sea-bright, the old negress, who had fallen to little Garnet's possession, along with the personal effects of her mother, and, lastly, with old Pontius Pilate, who had complained of great loneliness during his mistress's absence. 
               Little Hugh Hutton was a proud and happy little man the day of Netty's arrival. He tried to multiply himself into a train of attendants to wait upon the little girl. He first proposed to give up his cot bed, his chair, and his little chest for her use. He brought her all his playthings, his bows and arrows, and guns, and traps, and hammered all day at what he fondly supposed to be a boat, that he was making for her benefit. 
               When General Garnet had taken leave of Miss Joe at Huttontown, just as she was about to cross over to her island, he had begged her to apply to him in any emergency, and to call on him for anything her young charge might want. The child of the soldier who had served under him throughout the Revolutionary war, who had once interposed his body to save his life, should never suffer for the necessaries or comforts of existence while that life was spared. And this he had said with that earnest and fervent tone, and with that benign and beautiful smile, that never failed to fascinate the love and trust of all who heard and saw him. And Miss Joe felt assured and comfortable. 
               But now, as days slid into weeks, and weeks grew into months, Miss Joe heard no more of General Garnet and his promises, nor did she like to take him at his word and apply to him. He ought to prevent that and save her feelings, she said. 
               As years passed away, however, Miss Joe occasionally wrote to General Garnet in behalf of her little proteg. For the most part, her letters would remain unanswered, but when one did elicit a reply, General Garnet's epistle would be full of kindness, blessing, encouragement, good advice, and-nothing else! 
               At last, during a bitter winter, their main dependence, their faithful servant, poor old Pontius Pilate, caught the pleurisy and died. In the midst of this trouble, Miss Joe wrote again to General Garnet, and once more, and for the last time, invoked his promised assistance. After the lapse of several days, she received a letter from the benignant General, full of condolence, sympathy, and exhortations to hope and patience, and-nothing else! The letter concluded with the assurance that she had nothing to fear-that God never made a mouth for which he had not also provided food. To this letter the long-suffering old lady was exasperated to reply-that though it was true God had made both the mouths and the food, yet the mouths had fallen to her lot, and the food to his. 
               The General never replied to this last letter, and here the correspondence ceased. 
               "Cast thy bread upon the waters, and after many days it will be found," saith Holy Writ. The bread Miss Joe had cast upon the waters will be found in due time. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               ELSIE. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Oh! the words 
                           Laugh on her lips; the motion of her smiles 
                           Showers beauty, as the air-caressed spray 
                           The dews of morning. 
                        
                      
                     -MILMAN. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           But ever still, 
                           As a sweet tone delighteth her, the smile 
                           Goes melting into sadness, and the lash 
                           Droops gently to her eye, as if she knew 
                           Affection was too deep a thing for mirth. 
                        
                      
                     -WILLIS. 
                   
                
               GENERAL GARNET was certainly not a parsimonious man; perhaps his interest in his little god-child had died with her mother; perchance, being a very wealthy man, he could not appreciate the strait to which poor Miss Joe and her little family were reduced; possibly he did not wish to give his personal attention to little Garnet's necessities; probably, he intended that Miss Joe should get what was needed at the village store, upon his account; certainly, if Miss Joe had liberally interpreted his letters, and done so, he would, without demur, have settled the bill. But Miss Joe was far too cautious to put a doubtful construction on his letters, and run in debt. I never clearly comprehended the difficulty between them, but I believe they each misunderstood the other, and so General Garnet remained with the stigma of cruelty and ingratitude resting upon him, when, perhaps, he could be justly accused of indifference only. 
               Just about the time of Miss Joe's last application also, General Garnet, like Martha, was troubled with many things. He was a candidate for the Senate, and all his thoughts engaged in the secret, intriguing, vexatious, multifarious business of electioneering; or if he had a thought or a moment to spare, it was divided between the negotiation with his neighbour, Mr. Hardcastle, of a marriage between Magnus Hardcastle and Elsie Garnet, or in preparations for the return of his daughter-having his house re-papered, re-painted, and newly furnished. 
               Magnus Hardcastle had obtained his diploma, and was getting into some little practice, despite the grumbling, growling, and swearing objections of his uncle, who could see no necessity for his nephew "making a slave of himself for nothing." 
               Yes, absolutely for nothing! Let Magnus show a dollar that he had ever earned by all his practising of medicine. Let him show even a dollar that he had ever got back for the medicines he had dispensed along with his attention and advice! 
               It was true, Magnus's receipt-book, if he owned one, was an unwritten volume. His practice was mostly among poor people, who had no dollars to spare. 
               Well, then, what did he do it for? What good did it do him? There he was, rapped up out of his warm bed in the middle of the winter's night, in the midst of a snow-storm, to ride five or six miles to some old woman in a cramp colic, or some child with the croup! What good did it do? And this was not the case once or twice, but five or six times in a month. And what good did it do him? 
               Lives were saved! 
               Yes, but what did he get for his trouble? Thanks, maybe. Pooh! he knew very well that half the time he got nothing but ingratitude and coarse abuse. He had better remember that Irish woman, with an inflammatory fever, who took her powders every hour in a gill of whiskey, and being near death, swore the d-- doctor's stuff had murdered her. He had better remember how the other woman cursed him for cutting off her husband's mortified leg to the saving of his life. Pooh! Let him give up the dirty profession. He did not adopt him, did not intend to give him a fortune for the sole purpose of enabling him to be a poor doctor without even parish pay! 
               Sometimes Magnus would answer to this effect- 
               "Nonsense, my good uncle! If I can do any good in my day and generation, let me do it. Though I do sometimes get abuse from some poor, ignorant man, or, more frequently, a blowing up from some poor, nervous, overtasked woman, who, by-the-way, would defend me, to the death, the very next hour, if any one else attacked me-why should I care? I am quite as well liked as I deserve to be. Most people are, in fact. Some day the people about here will send me to Congress, in my own despite, I am so popular." 
               "Send you to Congress! I expected that-I was only waiting for that. It only wanted that to complete my despair and your ruin." 
               "Dear uncle, be easy-I shan't go," Magnus would reply, laughing. 
               Yes, Doctor Magnus Hardcastle was very, very popular, and could have carried as many votes as any man in the county. He was the constant companion of General Garnet, by what sort of attraction and association, the reader cannot fail to know. Never was such a zealous partisan as Magnus! Never was such a stump orator-earnest, eloquent, impassioned, large-souled, great-hearted, full of human sympathies-he could sway a crowd to and fro in a manner that might have been amusing, if it had not been sublime in its exhibition of power. It was his personal appearance, as well as his temperament, that was the cause of much of this power over others. 
               But it is time to give you some idea of Magnus Hardcastle at twenty-three. He was a fine illustration of the beauty of the vital system. He had the tall, athletic form that distintinguishes the men of the Western Shore; a face rather square, by reason of the massive forehead and massive jaws, both indicating intellect and strength; but it was in the fullness of the beautifully-rounded chin and cheeks, in the fullness of the large, but beautifully-curved lips, that the fine, genial serenity, and joyous temperament, were revealed; the line of the nose and forehead was nearly straight, and the eyes were clear blue; the complexion was clear and ruddy, and the face was surrounded by the darkest chestnut hair, and whiskers that met beneath the chin. The prevailing expression of this fine countenance was confidence and cheerfulness. 
               Magnus had been corresponding with Elsie for the last three years, and looked forward to her return with more of joyful anticipation than any one else in the world, perhaps; except her mother. A year before this, two miniature portraits of Elsie, in her young womanhood, had been forwarded from England. One of them had been retained by her mother; the other was presented by General Garnet to Magnus. He wore it in his -- vest pocket. It was her charm, his talisman, his Agnus-dei. Whenever, if ever he would become, for the instant, lazy, stupid, hopeless, or impatient, he would take that miniature out, touch the spring, so that the case would fly open, and gaze upon that handsome, wholesome, happy face, until energy, inspiration, hope, and patience came again; and he would close it, and replace it in his pocket with a joyous faith in his coming life, that not all the powers of evil could have shaken. 
               I told you that Magnus was the zealous, active, and most efficient partisan of General Garnet; he was also the dear friend and confidant of Mrs. Garnet. Many and long were the confidential talks they would have in Alice's dressing-room; and the subject of these conversations was Elsie-still Elsie. 
               One day, after reading with Mrs. Garnet Elsie's last delightful letter, and discussing with her Elsie's expected arrival, he exclaimed, joyfully, "This makes me gladdest of all!-that our fresh, dewy, charming Elsie will come at once to us. Well!-at once to me-that she will not have had, as most young ladies have, many other lovers; that the sun of the world will not have stolen the bloom and the dew from our beautiful Maryland rose." 
               But Magnus "reckoned" his future without Destiny, his "host." 
               Elsie had been withdrawn from school, indeed, and was quite ready and anxious to get home. She was to return with General A--'s family, who were soon expected to sail for the United States. But one circumstance following another, and connected with his diplomatic business, had deferred his departure from time to time, until six months passed away-during which Miss Garnet had been presented at Court, and was moving in the best society in London. Yes; and, though still impatient to come home, enjoying her happy self to the utmost, as every letter testified. 
               Now, you would think that after having congratulated himself so upon the unsunned freshness of his beautiful Maryland rose, that Magnus would lament that she was blooming in the very blaze of the sun of fashion, in the very conservatory of a court. 
               By no means; her letters reassured him, every one. 
               "It is well, very well, upon the whole," he said. "She has now an opportunity of forming an acquaintance with one order of society, that may never occur again-of getting an insight into one phase of human nature, that nothing but this experience could afford her." 
               And time sped on, and brought the day when a letter came to them, dated at Liverpool, and announcing that General A--, with his family, and Miss Garnet, would sail, within a few days, in the ship Amphytrite, bound from that port to Norfolk. Therefore, it was expected that within a few days after, if not before the arrival of the letter, the Amphytrite would be in port. 
               General Garnet, accompanied by Dr. Hardcastle, left Mount Calm immediately for Norfolk, to welcome his daughter, if the ship had come; to wait for her, if it had not. 
               Mrs. Garnet remained at home to receive her, in fond, impatient expectation. 
               She had Elsie's bed-chamber decorated, and a fire made in it every day, and the parlours lighted and warmed, and the tea-table set for the whole party every evening. 
               At last, one night-a week after they had left home-while she was standing before the parlour fire, trimming a lamp on the chimney-piece, and wondering sadly if she were not merely imagining that her long-lost daughter was expected home, a carriage drove rapidly up the shaded avenue, steps were let down, people came, a little bustle ensued, hasty steps and joyous voices were heard. Alice ran out, and in an instant, the mother, weeping, laughing, exclaiming, had caught, and was hugging her daughter to her bosom. Yes, Elsie herself!-Elsie, warm, alive, real, and such an armful of bright, rosy, joyous life, and love, and reality! I leave you to imagine the joy of the party around the tea-table that night, where all were too joyful to eat-or the late hour at which they separated for the night and retired to their several rooms, where each one was too happy to sleep. 
                
               The next morning, happy, joyous Elsie had to hold a sort of levee for the benefit of the coloured folks. Every negro in the house, or on the plantation, who had known her before she went away, had to come and shake hands with her, and welcome her back. And every little one that had grown from infancy to childhood during her absence, and to whom she was a sort of fabulous demi-goddess, or, it might be, one of the angels, had to come and stare at her, and be patted on the head, and get its paper of sugar-plums or its toy. 
               And then, later in the day, when her trunks and boxes arrived in the wagon, and were unpacked, she had to distribute her presents and tokens of remembrance to all and each of the coloured people. 
               And in the course of the second day, when the news of her arrival began to be rumoured about, the companions of her childhood, now grown up to be young men and women, flocked in to see her. And it was from their sly hints and innuendoes that Elsie was taught that it was expected of her father to give a ball, and that, indeed, a great many people would be very greatly disappointed if he did not. And good-natured Elsie, in order to make so many young folks happy, named the matter to her father, and begged him, as a personal favour to herself, in consideration of her recent arrival home, to give a party. So General Garnet, willing to please his child, and believing, besides, that a large party might forward his electioneering projects, gave his consent. He consulted Mrs. Garnet and Doctor Hardcastle, and fixed the time of the ball for that day two weeks. Magnus was with her every day. Elsie perfectly understood, though she could scarcely have told why, for no one had as yet hinted the subject to her, that she was at no very distant period of time to be married to Magnus. She considered her marriage, like her leaving school, her presentation at court, and her coming-out ball, a part of the programme of her happy drama of life, and was content. She loved Magnus. During her absence in England, she had remembered and loved him as she had remembered and loved her father and mother-as one of the elements of her life's joy. 
               When she returned, she had met him with the fond and free affection of a sister for an only brother. 
               And when she had been home a week, and Magnus had found opportunity and courage, and led the beautiful and happy girl to a shady nook in the twilight parlour, and told her with the burning eloquence of passion how long, how deeply, how greatly he had loved her-how she had been at once his one memory and his one hope-his incentive, his dream, his inspiration, his guiding star, Elsie heard him with undisguised astonishment at his earnestness and his enthusiasm, and wondered to herself where it all came from. And when he, full of doubt and fear, for her free and unembarrassed manner discouraged him, begged her to give him an answer, she replied, without the slightest hesitation or embarrassment-nay, even in her native, gladsome, confident manner-that he need not have given himself so much anxiety; that, of course, everybody knew they were going to be married; didn't their lands join? and, of course, she had never even thought of retreating. 
               Now you may think from that speech that Elsie was a sadly heartless and mercenary and calculating little baggage. She was as far as possible from being that. She was a fresh, innocent, totally inexperienced girl, who repeated, parrot-like, the sentiments of those around her. 
               Magnus knew that, and caught her, strained her to his bosom, pressed kisses on her brow, her cheeks, her lips, in the delirious joy of "first and passionate love." And Elsie broke from his arms and ran from the room suffused with blushes, trembling with a strange, painful, blissful tumult. And all that evening Elsie wandered about up stairs, or sat dreaming, half in terror, half in joy, until her mother came in and asked her of what she was thinking so deeply? 
               Elsie started and blushed violently. 
               Alice took both her hands and gazed deeply into her face. 
               At that earnest and tender mother's gaze, the tears sprung into Elsie's eyes, and then, as struck by something ludicrous in herself or her position, Elsie laughed. 
               Alice pressed her hands, and released them, saying, 
               "It is time to dress, my dear Elsie, your father expects you in the parlour. Let me fix your hair; it is in sad disorder." And she smoothed and twined the rich ringlets around her fingers, letting them drop in long tendrils of golden auburn. 
               And then she arranged her dress of purple cashmere, and they went below to the lighted parlour where General Garnet and Magnus awaited them. The General and Magnus were engaged in a political discussion, but Magnus broke off and came at once to meet them. 
               Elsie, with a bright blush, turned away and walked to a distant table, where she ensconced herself with her tambour frame. 
               But from that day Elsie gradually changed. She kept out of the way of Magnus most sedulously. The courtship became a regular hunt. All Magnus's ingenuity was employed in devising how he should circumvent Elsie's arch and saucy prudery, and entrap her into a little lover's talk or walk. And all Elsie's tact was engaged in devising means to avoid without offending Magnus. 
               And so days went on until one day it fell like ice upon the warm heart of Magnus, that Elsie might not love him except as a brother; and oh! he thought of her first, free, fond, sisterly affection for him, until the evening upon which he first declared his passion, and then of her calm agreement to marry him because their lands joined, and her cold avoidance of him ever since. "Yes," he said to himself, "it is too true. Elsie does not love me. I am wooing an unwilling bride. Shall I continue to do so? Shall I marry her and seal her misery? No, my God! No, though she is the first and last hope of my life, I will resign her if that will make her happy." And so Magnus suddenly abandoned the pursuit of Elsie, and grew thoughtful, sorrowful, pale and weary-looking. 
               Then he absented himself from Mount Calm for several days. Elsie did not grow pale or thin; she was too sanguine for that; but she became uneasy, then anxious, then restless, and would walk about looking silently from the windows, particularly the back windows that overlooked the forest road leading down to the Hollow; or looking into her father's or her mother's face with an anxious, appealing look of silent inquiry. She would not have put that inquiry into words for a kingdom. If the door-bell were rung, she would start violently, pause breathlessly, turn very pale, ask eagerly of the servant who returned, "who was that?" he answered "Judge Jacky Wylie," or "Marse Useless Roebuck;" and then sink back in her seat, disappointed and blushing with mortification. And yet only two or three days had passed; but then Magnus had been in the habit of coming twice a day, and staying over night; and two or three days seems to a young, impatient heart, like two or three eternities. 
               At last General Garnet, in the blackest rage and the brightest smile, put a pair of pistols in his pocket, mounted his magnificent black war-horse Death, and rode down to Hemlock Hollow, with the deliberate intention of courteously inquiring into Dr. Hardcastle's motives of conduct, and blowing his brains out if the answer should not prove satisfactory. Not that he sympathized with Elsie, or believed in broken hearts, but that he had a saving faith in the junction of estates, and a high respect for the "honour of his house." 
               He found Magnus looking sallow and haggard, and immediately surmised that he had been ill, reproached him in a polite, gentlemanly way, for not having informed his friends of his indisposition, and finally hoped that he had recovered. 
               Magnus pleaded guilty to illness, and much care and anxiety, and spoke of the pain that enforced absence from Elsie gave him. Not for the world would Magnus have hinted that Elsie's coldness had driven him away, and that despair had made him ill; he knew too well that such a communication would be visited with great severity by her father upon the head of Elsie. And he judged rightly-General Garnet's heart was set on the marriage of those two joining plantations. If Magnus had backed out, he would have shot him like a dog. If Elsie had retreated, he would have turned her out of doors. If both had broken off, by mutual consent, he would have-Satan only knows what he would not have done. 
               As it was now, he was perfectly satisfied with Magnus, insisted that he should come over the day of the ball, if not before, received his promise to do so, and took leave. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               THE BALL-THE UNEXPECTED GUEST. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           There was a sound of revelry by night. 
                           --and bright 
                           The lamps shone o'er fair women and brave men; 
                           A thousand hearts beat happily, and when 
                           Music arose with its voluptuous swell, 
                           Soft eyes looked love to eyes that spoke again, 
                           And all went marry as a marriage bell! 
                           But hush! hark! 
                        
                      
                     -BYRON. 
                   
                
               THE day of the ball arrived. People had been invited for twenty miles around. Apartments had been prepared for the guests who, coming from a distance, would be likely to remain all night. From an early hour in the afternoon, carriages began to arrive, and the men-servants had enough to do in stabling the horses and putting away the vehicles; while the maid-servants were employed in showing the company to their dressing-rooms, and attending upon them there. 
               Magnus came early in the afternoon, in order to have a private conversation with Mrs. Garnet, to whom he intended to open his heart fully. 
               He asked for her as soon as he arrived, and was immediately shown up into her bed-chamber, into which both Alice and her daughter had been crowded, by the incoming of their guests. As he entered, Alice came forward with a smile to meet him. Elsie started violently, coloured brightly, and ere any one could prevent her, even if they had wished, flew from the room. 
               As she flew by him, Magnus fixed one passionate, reproachful look upon her, and said, in a hurried voice, 
               "Fear nothing, Elsie! I will never trouble you." 
               Alice, still smiling, pointed him to a chair. He sat down, dropped his forehead upon his hands for a moment, sighed heavily, looked up, and opened his story. He told Alice that he had discovered, to his eternal sorrow, that Elsie did not love him, that though to resign her was like resigning his hope of Heaven, yet every principle of justice and honour obliged him to do so; he concluded by asking her opinion as to the best manner of breaking this affair to General Garnet, so as to shield Elsie from his indignation. 
               "And so you wish to give Elsie up?" 
               "WISH!" and Magnus dropped his forehead into his palms with a groan that might have startled all the house, had they been listening. Then, lifting his head up again, he said sternly, almost fiercely, 
               "LISTEN! If Elsie loved me, not all the power of earth or of hell-or-God forgive me!-I had nearly said of Heaven!-should sever her from me! not you-not her father-not herself-if only she loved me! But she does not, and it is all over!" 
               "And who told you she did not love you?" inquired Alice, smiling at his vehemence, and sighing as her thoughts flew back to the past, when she was resigned in spite of herself. "Who told you that Alice did not return your love?" 
               With a gesture of despair, Magnus recounted all that had passed between himself and Elsie, and ended, as he had begun, with a groan, dropping his head upon his hands. 
                      
                        "Puir human bodies are sic' fules, 
                        Wi' a' their colleges and schules, 
                        That when nae real ills perplex 'em, 
                        They mak eno' themsel's to vex 'em," 
                     
                   sang Alice; then said,- 
               "Oh, Magnus! with all your knowledge-with your classic, and mathematic, and philosophic, and metaphysic learning-with all your knowledge, not to know a young girl's heart better than that! Oh, Magnus! "with all your getting, get wisdom, get understanding.'" 
               "Alice, Cousin Alice! Do you mean to intimate what sometimes I have madly hoped-that I have been mistaken, that Elsie does-" 
               "That Elsie loves you a thousand fold more now that she avoids you, than she did while she laughed, and talked, and romped with you. Oh, man! you should have found this out for yourself, and not have put me to the shame of betraying my child. And now, never let me hear another word of your self-sacrificing resignation of Elsie's hand; or I shall take you at your word, as she would do now, for I don't believe in it. I have more faith in the cruellest demonstrations of a downright honest, sincere, human passion, than in all the self-martyrizing resignation in the world!" said Alice, with a strange asperity, for her thoughts flew back again to the past. "Go, Magnus! You will find Elsie in the ball-room. Go, Magnus; I love you, or I never would have said all that I have said to you." 
               Magnus seized the hand of Alice, pressed it to his heart, to his lips, and darted from the room in search of his betrothed. 
               He found her in the large saloon, described in the beginning of this story as occupying the whole of the right-hand wing of the house. She was standing at a table, arranging a large boquet in a marble vase. He stole softly up behind her, and restraining the impetuous force of his emotions, passed his arm gently around her waist, and drew her-so gently!-to his heart. And Elsie's head sank upon his shoulder. He raised her chin and kissed her-still so gently!-as fearing to startle her shy trust and again frighten her away. So gently, and trembling all over, for in his bosom he held a young tornado in check. At last she moved to withdraw herself from his arms; he pressed her once more to his bosom, printed one more kiss upon her lips, and let her go. So quiet and so silent was their reconciliation. 
               He stood there where she left him in a happy trance, until the company began to drop in one by one, and in couples, and trios, and in small parties. 
               And then he wandered out by himself. He strolled down the shaded avenue, and through the gate, and over the burnished hills, now brown with the sear wind of November, under the cold, deep blue starlight skies, wrapped in a blissful dream, until the sudden peal of music from the house awoke him. 
               He turned to retrace his steps, and now saw the whole south wing blazing with light, and the sprite-like figures of the dancers as they flitted by the illuminated windows. He hastened back, entered the house, hurried to the little room always kept sacred to his use, arranged his toilet, and went below. 
               He entered the ball-room, which was resplendent and joyous with light, and music, and gay and brilliant company. Magnus slowly made his way through the crowd in search of his lady-love, but nodding, smiling, shaking hands, according to the degree of his acquaintance with the individuals that made up the company. 
               Judge Jacky was there in great force-superb in a blue velvet coat, white satin vest, and small clothes, white silk stockings, slippers, and diamond-studded buckles. His hair was dressed and powdered, and he danced so vigorously that, wherever he moved, a little snow-storm fell in the shape of poudre-blanc. Judge Jacky made it a point to dance "with every lady in the room"-he avowed it. But first he danced twice with every ugly girl, old maid, portionless widow, and every other doomed wall-flower at the ball. It would have done any one's heart good to have seen Judge Jacky doing the agreeable to some poor, plain, neglected old maid-to see how deprecatingly he bowed before her, and solicited "the felicity of her hand for her next disengaged set," as if he were firmly convinced that there had been a general run upon her for the next half-a-dozen cotillions. It would have pleased you to have seen him lead her out with such a proud and happy air, as if he felt that she had conferred upon him the greatest bliss that the heart of man was capable of feeling, and the greatest honour the brain of man was capable of sanely sustaining. And then, to see him dance with her-bowing with so much deference every time he took her hand in the turning of the dance. And then, to see him lead her back to her seat, and bow again, and thank her with such an air of profound gratitude and respect. And to hear him ask her in a low, insinuating voice, whether she would take a cream, a jelly, or a glass of wine, or water? And to see him move off and bring it to her, and stand and fan her until it was time for the next quadrille to form, and then, as it was not etiquette to lead out the same lady twice in succession, to see him go off to where the bashful young men lurked about the doors, take one of them, whisper, "Come, I will introduce you to a most charming woman," carry him up to our old maid, present him, and leave him there under the necessity of taking her out to dance. And so, having provided her a partner, to see him saunter off in search of some evergreen widow of sixty, and with a deep obeisance, entreat the honour of her hand, and listen for her answer as though life, death, and immortality hung upon her words! Oh, Judge Jacky! the young beauties all loved you and laughed at you, and the old maids and old widows all voted you a "perfect gentleman." Oh, Judge Jacky Wylie-dear Judge Jacky! we know that you are popular up in heaven, where you have been gone these many years, but, shall we ever see your like again on earth? 
               And Ambrosia Wylie was there, too. Miss Ambush, as the coloured folk perverted her pretty name. Oh, well named both ways, for she had grown up the most alluring ignis-fatuus that ever drew men on an elf chase through brambles and quagmires. Yes, "Miss Ambush" was there, with her darkly veiled but splendid eyes, and glowing lips, smiling out from the thicket of shining auburn hair that fell in a hundred little spiral ringlets down her rosy cheeks. Yes, Miss Ambush was there, moving through the mazy dance, and dropping here and there words and glances, seeds that soon, in the fertile soil of vanity and hope, and sunned by smiles, and fanned by sighs, and watered by tears, were to grow up in a harvest of heartaches. I know that twenty-five young fools went away that night, each believing himself beloved by Ambrosia. Oh! Ambrosia-Miss Ambush-how can you serve Ulysses Roebuck so? Don't you see that "Marse Useless" has gone off in dudgeon into that distant corner, and reared his long back up against the wall, and crossed his legs and folded his arms, and is looking daggers and bullets at your adorers, and "unutterable things" at you? This moment he is only withheld by good manners from giving you a good shaking, and your partner a good kicking. There! his uncle, your father, our good Judge Jacky, has just gone to him, and requested, as a personal favour, that, as long as he is standing there doing nothing, he will go and be agreeable to that poor, lame girl, who cannot dance, while he himself goes and walks a minuet with her cross-eyed mother. And just listen to Ulysses! He has had the atrocious wickedness to tell his kind uncle and benefactor to go to-no place! And that is all owing to you and your jack-o-lantern flitting and flirting, Miss Ambush. See how much sin you make people commit. And now, this is the very triumph of coquetry. She has already drawn General Garnet on to ask her to dance! General Garnet, the proud, the stern, the majestic, the unbendable, is actually bending over her with his most seraphic smile, and a gaze that might melt all the icebergs in the Northern Ocean-and she has raised her languishing eyes, with the look of a gratified angel, and she has given her hand, and he, still shining upon her with that sun-like smile, is leading her to the head of the cotillion. 
               In the mean time, Magnus found his lady-love. She was sitting at the farthest extremity of the room, the centre of a circle of sprightly young people, who were eagerly engaged in asking her questions concerning her residence abroad, London, the Court, the King, &c., &c., and as eagerly listening to her replies. As Magnus gently broke through this circle, and approached her side, her eyes fell, and her colour rose. 
               Her young friends, with a smile, a laugh, or an arch glance, dropped off, one by one, leaving the lovers alone. 
               And now Elsie's eyes were dropped to the ground, and her colour mounted to her temples. 
               At the same moment a young gentleman came up, and asked the pleasure of her hand in the next quadrille. 
               Elsie, with a start, and a sigh of relief, suffered him to lead her forth to the head of the cotillion. 
               I am sure, Dr. Hardcastle was unconscious of the angry flush and fierce glance, with which he followed the meanderings of the young couple through the mazes of the dance. 
               Not so Elsie. With many a swift and furtive glance she detected the angry passion of her lover's face, and felt self-reproach enough to bewilder her movements. Never had beautiful Elsie danced with less grace, and never had she been so glad when the set was over. 
               Her partner led her to a seat, distant from the one he had taken her from, took his seat by the side of her, and held her in conversation that made her more fidgety than before. 
               Poor Elsie was at length relieved by Judge Jacky, who, seeing her distress and embarrassment, came up, and taking my gentleman by the arm, and saying to him, 
               "There is a very lovely woman who would not be averse to dancing the next set with you; come, let me introduce you to her," marched him off to dance with a tall, thin young lady of sixty-five. 
               Dr. Hardcastle now left his position across the room, and walking leisurely, came up to Elsie, and dropped slowly into the seat just vacated. 
               And at that very instant, as if to try his patience to the utmost, up came Ulysses Roebuck, and holding out his hand, in quite a confident way, informed Elsie, that he intended to confer upon her the glory and the joy of being his partner in the next set. 
               Elsie glanced at Magnus, shook her head, and laughed lightly. 
               Ulysses persisted, affirming that indeed he was in earnest, and did not mean to humbug her; that he really had reserved the honour and the pleasure of his hand in the next cotillion for her, and her alone. That his uncle had selected a very charming partner for him, whom he had declined, in consideration of her. 
               Elsie laughed a little, and told him, she feared "the honour and the pleasure" was only offered to her in order to pique Ambrosia. 
               Whereupon Roebuck begun to vow and protest, but in the midst of his vociferous asseverations, he happened to spy Ambrosia sitting down, quite exhausted, quite alone, apparently quite disengaged, for the first time during the evening, and Ulysses suddenly sped off towards her, in order to secure her at once-for the dance?-no, for a good, rousing quarrel. 
               "Why did you not dance with Ulysses?" inquired Magnus of Elsie. 
               She threw a swift glance to his face, then dropped her eyes, and replied in a low tone, 
               "I shall not dance again to-night." 
                
               "Why?" he asked, taking her hand, and seeming to study its deep beauty. "Why will you not dance again to-night?" 
               But she coloured so deeply, and looked so distressed, that he desisted from questioning her. 
               At last Elsie of herself said in a very low voice, 
               "Mother told me not to dance, unless it were to make up a set, that could not otherwise be completed." 
               "But I do not understand, why you should have been warned against your favourite amusement, Elsie?" 
               "Why, lest by filling up one place in the cotillion, I might keep some young lady from dancing," replied she-but then, as though spurning disingenuousness, she added-"but that was not the only reason I refused to Ulysses," then pausing, and making a great effort over herself, she added, in a very low and tremulous voice: "It was because you looked so annoyed while I was dancing with Mr. Brent." 
               The light of an unutterable joy shone on the face of Magnus. He caught her hand with a strong, almost crushing clasp-his bosom heaved-his eyes kindled and smouldered. He stooped his lips near Elsie's ear to whisper something, but her cheek blazed. 
               And just then a slight bustle at the other extremity of the room attracted their attention. Exclamations of astonishment, joy, and wonder, were intermingled with many words of cordial greeting, and of hearty welcoming. Above all noises were heard the jocund tones of old Mr. Hardcastle. The bustle widened in the crowd, like eddies in the water where a stone had just been cast, and the crowd seemed to be swayed towards the place where our lovers sat. The centre of this crowd was a young man of rather effeminate, but exceeding personal beauty, tall, and slightly, but elegantly proportioned; with Grecian features, a fair, roseate complexion, golden hair, and light, soft, hazel eyes. He was receiving, and gracefully and graciously acknowledging the devoirs of all around him, who were also moving with him toward Magnus and Elsie. As he drew near, they both simultaneously exclaimed, 
               "My cousin Lionel!" 
               "Lionel Hardcastle!" 
               And both eagerly started forward, holding out their hands, in joyful welcome, before even thinking of the miracle of his advent. 
               Lionel at first shook hands with Magnus, then, seeming to yield to a sudden and irresistible impulse, folded him to his heart in a close brotherly embrace. 
               He then took Elsie's hand, bowed over it gracefully, raised it tenderly to his lips, when Elsie, exclaiming, 
               "Oh, my dear old playmate, I am so glad! so glad! that you were not lost after all!" threw herself into his arms. 
               The youth's eye and cheek kindled with a hectic flush, as he pressed the innocent, affectionate girl for an instant to his bosom, and released her to turn and see Magnus grasp her arm with no very gentle hand, and lead her away. To the many eager questions of "When did you arrive?" "Where from?" "How did you escape?" "Where have you been all this time?" put to him by the astonished crowd as soon as they recovered sufficient strength, Lionel replied, 
               "To morrow, to morrow, I will tell you all about it." 
               "That you shan't! you shan't tell for a week. It is enough, good heaven, to have you among us. No more questions shall be asked or answered for a week!" exclaimed Judge Wylie, in a magisterial tone, and the company understood that they had been wearying a fatigued traveller, and desisted. 
               It was late when the ball broke up. And Judge Jacky, who seemed possessed with the spirit of jollity, resolved to follow up this party by one of his own. Accordingly, that very night, he improvised the "time, place, and circumstance" of a ball, and availed himself of the opportunity afforded by the presence of so many of his familiar friends, to give out rather informal verbal invitations. When all the company had departed, a cloud remained upon the brow of General Garnet. He spoke coldly to Magnus, in reply to his "good-night," as the latter left the house. Alice looked deeply distressed, Elsie glanced from father to mother with a vague presentiment of impending evil. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               THE NEW-FOUND HEIR. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           ERNEST. 
                           Which is the bridegroom? 
                        
                         
                           WILHELM. 
                           Marry! the heir.
                            
                        
                      
                     -NEWMAN. 
                   
                
               MAGNUS had returned home with his cousin. The next day the family from the Hollow dined at Mount Calm, by invitation. General Garnet was still cold and reserved to Magnus, but showed the most marked attention to Lionel. This at first surprised Doctor Hardcastle; but soon, with a haughty curl of the lip, he thought, 
               "I see how it is; fortune has changed. I have lost an inheritance." 
               After dinner, Lionel told a tale of an Algerine cruiser, of a long captivity, of a hair-breadth escape, that left as vague an impression of reality upon the minds of his hearers, as it leaves now upon the minds of my readers. They did not doubt his story, but they could not well connect the effeminate beauty of the man with any life of pirate-adventure, and slavery hardships. 
               Elsie was saddened for the first time in her life, and she scarcely knew wherefore. During the short estrangement between herself and her lover, she had been nervous, anxious, excitable; now, she was depressed. She loved her mother very tenderly; she loved her father passionately; and Magnus she loved-oh, how shall I say?-with an infinite future reservation. But now she saw a cloud-she was too guileless to know wherefore-settle and deepen, dark, cold, and chill, between her lover and her father; and the happy, buoyant Elsie grew pensive and thoughtful. General Garnet, with all his coldness, was studiously polite; and Magnus was self-possessed and social. 
               As this day passed, so-as far as the relative positions of some of the parties were concerned-passed the weeks, and brought the day upon which Judge Wylie's party was to be given. 
               There was a heavy cloud of thought and care upon the brow of General Garnet; and those who knew him well, surmised that he was considering the best manner of transferring the hand of the heiress of Mount Calm, from the poor doctor to the rich heir of Hemlock Hollow. 
               Magnus continued his visits, as usual, undisturbed by the freezing exterior of General Garnet. 
               Alice always received him with affection; and Elsie's manner to him was earnest, affectionate, deferential, as if she wished to make up for her father's coldness. She was no longer shy and diffident. It seemed as if the presentiment of some impending misfortune, which she felt rather than understood, had thrown down the barriers of her reserve, and that she could not do too much, in her sweet, feminine way, to assure Magnus of her unchangeable affection and unswerving truth. Her eyes waited on him, shyly, all day long, for her maiden pride was self-subdued, but not her maiden delicacy. Elsie had no suspicion of what her father really meant, until the morning of the day upon which Judge Wylie's ball was to be given. General Garnet called Elsie into his room, and having explained in his polite way-he was polite even to his child-that circumstances beyond all human calculation or control had rendered it expedient that a new adjustment of affairs should take place, and that she must no longer look upon Magnus Hardcastle in the light of a suitor for her hand, but must, on the contrary, prepare herself to think of, and accept Lionel Hardcastle, to whom he had given permission to visit her-Elsie opened wide her eyes in undisguised astonishment, that her father, her revered father, should ask her to break her plighted faith; but without one atom of terror, and without an instant's hesitation, she answered, 
               "Why, father, being engaged to Magnus, with yours and mother's consent, I would no more forsake him now than if I were already his wedded wife." 
               "We shall see, Miss Garnet. I will give you time," replied the General, in his soft, but sarcastic manner. 
               "Father," said Elsie, her cheek burning with shame and indignation, "if I should give you to suppose that any lapse of time could alter my determination, I should be a coward or a hypocrite. Father, I would not have engaged myself without your consent and my mother's, for I should have felt that to be wrong; but having engaged myself with your consent and blessing, I will not break that engagement, come what may. I promised, with your approbation, to give my hand to Doctor Hardcastle on Thursday week, and Thursday week, father, I must do it. Doctor Hardcastle has lost an inheritance; an event which he rejoices in, since it gives his uncle back a dearly-beloved, and long-lost son. But he must not lose his wife, father, he shall not." 
               General Garnet stood like one thunderstruck. His wife had never ventured to oppose his will, except 
                     "To plead, lament, and sue,"
                   to avert some cruel deed. His servants had ever trembled before him. His very neighbours and associates had fallen into the habit of yielding to his inflexible will; and here was a little girl of seventeen years of age, with positively her own notions of right and wrong, of faith and infidelity, of honour and dishonour-and telling him, with a high, unblenching cheek, and a clear, unfaltering voice, that she meant to abide by right, and eschew wrong! He turned pale with suppressed rage; his eyes gleamed with their sinister light; he clenched his fist, and made one step towards her, but retreated again, and dropped his hand. The polished "gentleman" asserted its supremacy of habit over the angry "man." It would not be comme-il-faut for "General Garnet" to give "Miss Garnet" a good drubbing with his fists; besides, there was a look of calm, healthful moral strength about that mere child, that forcibly impressed him. 
               "Father, this thing came suddenly upon me, and surprised me out of my self-possession, and the respect that is due to you. I spoke hastily, and, I fear, irreverently. I earnestly repent it, and ask your pardon. Forgive me," said Elsie; and she approached, and would have offered herself to his embrace; but General Garnet extended his hand, and waved her off. 
               "Do I understand you to say, Miss Garnet, that you repent your foolish decision?-if so, I am sincerely rejoiced to hear it." 
               "No, sir. Always, father, and in all else, I will be your submissive child. But for this, sir, you, yourself, laid on me this other duty, which I cannot shake off. Forgive me." 
               General Garnet looked at her steadily, while gleamed that red light from his dark eyes, and slowly shook his head, as communing with himself. Then, turning suddenly, and muttering something that sounded very much like a threat to "break her will or break her heart," he left the room; and Elsie sank down in her chair, and leaning upon the windowsill, raised her eyes to Heaven, 
                     "Full of thought and prayer."
                  
                
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               DEVOTION OF LOVE. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Oh! sweeter far than wealth, than fame, than all, 
                           Is first and passionate love: it stands alone. 
                        
                      
                     -BYRON. 
                   
                
               THERE was a much larger, but not so select a company, invited by the genial, social Judge Jacky, than that assembled by the proud and reserved General Garnet. And by "early candle light"-the country hour of assembling for a ball-the whole house-parlours, chambers, family rooms, and saloon-were crowded to overflowing. The dining-room only was kept shut up, for there the two long tables were to be set for supper. The saloon, or "big room," as it is plainly called in old-fashioned country houses, was blazing with light and splendour, and pealing with music, and alive with young men and maidens in ball-dresses, laughing, talking, wooing, flirting, dancing. It was something like General Garnet's ball on a larger and somewhat coarser scale, it must be confessed, but then it was such a joyous, jubilant, exultant scene! The young folks laughed, and talked, and danced, and jested with so much gladness and freedom! And Judge Jacky moved about laughing, talking, joking, gallanting all the ugly old maids, making love to all the low-spirited old windows, flattering and complimenting all the plain girls, encouraging all shame-faced young gentlemen, and electrifying into jocund life all the "flat, stale, and unprofitable" folks in the joyous company. 
               But it is not with the gay and thoughtless of that merry crowd that we have to do, but with our great-hearted Magnus, and our dear Elsie. You know at this moment, just as well as I do, that they both had too much on their minds to think of dancing. They had each come to the ball chiefly to meet the other and have a talk. General Garnet would willingly have kept Elsie away, but he did not think it polite to offend Judge Wylie by doing so. But one thing he had taken care to do-to send for Lionel Hardcastle to escort her there. And Lionel had ridden in the carriage alone with Elsie from Mount Calm to Point Pleasant, and had had every opportunity of pursuing a courtship that he had commenced almost from the first evening of his return. Elsie cut him short in the midst of one of his finest speeches, by telling him that he was making love to his cousin's wife-or to one who would be so on Thursday week! Yes, Elsie compelled herself to say exactly that to Lionel, to crush his hopes at once. On reaching the house at Point Pleasant, Elsie said aloud to Magnus, who came out to meet them, 
               "Doctor Hardcastle, help me to thank your cousin for the kind manner in which he has supplied your place in attending me here," and, bowing courteously to Lionel, she took the arm of Magnus, and entered the saloon. 
               They were now seated at the farthest extremity of the vast saloon, within the bay window. Elsie was looking very beautiful this evening. She was dressed in a gossamer white crape, over white satin. Her snowy arms and neck were bare, and encircled by diamond bracelets and necklace. She was always beautiful, but now her usually happy, joyous face was softened and deepened into an expression of serious thought and feeling ineffably charming. Have I ever described Elsie to you in her blooming young womanhood? I think not. Let me draw her portrait as she sat there by the side of Magnus, for never-as they say of brides-"had she looked so lovely." 
               She had a finer vital temperament than either of her parents; I do not know where she got it from, probably from some red-headed, fire-eating cavalier of the reign of Charles; but she had more fire and enthusiasm than either of them; it occasionally glowed upon her lips, burned in her cheeks, and blazed in her eyes. 
               In form, she was rather above the medium height, of small frame, delicate, but not thin, for the round and small bones were well covered with soft, elastic flesh, that rounded and tapered off in the true line of beauty to the slender wrists and ankles. Her neck and bosom were beautiful beyond all poetic dreams of beauty, suggesting sweet thoughts of love, truth, and repose. Her hair was rich and abundant, falling in a mass of warm-hued, golden, auburn ringlets. Her eyes were dark blue, large and languishing. Her complexion very fair, but warming in the cheek and lips into a faint but beautiful flush; the prevailing tone of her countenance was half-devotional, half-voluptuous; indeed, the nature of every ardent temperament is luxurious or saintly, as moral and mental tone gives it a bias; in hers, both were blended, and the general character of her whole face and form, air and manner, was-HARMONY. There was no warring, no discord, not one dissonant element in that pure, that spiritualized, yet proud nature. She seemed now, even when talking and hearing others talk, to be only half given to the world; to be wrapped in the vision of some delicious, some blissful secret; to possess some hidden, eternal spring of joy, in which her soul ever bathed, and that softened her countenance to a passionate tenderness; to have some secret, divine truth shrined in the temple of her heart, that elevated her expression to an exalted spirituality. 
               It was the religion of love, perhaps some would say the enthusiasm or the fanaticism of love. 
               They had been conversing. Elsie had told him all that had passed between herself and her father. And Magnus had recounted a similar scene that had taken place between himself and General Garnet. He had, as Elsie had, asserted his determination to abide by their betrothal. He repeated the same thing to Elsie now. It was this-this saving of her heart's fondest hopes amid the crash of fortune-that made Elsie feel and look so very blessed. 
               They were still conversing. He raised her hand-she had an exquisitely beautiful hand, elegantly shaped, and white as snow, and now diamond rings sparkled upon it; appropriate ornaments for it, as one may see. Well, he raised that small, white, jewelled hand, and looking tenderly, half-remorsefully upon it, said-and his voice was full-toned and melodious with love and sorrow: 
               "This tiny, snow-white hand, sparkling with diamonds!-this fresh, pure, delicate thing!-a jewel itself!-how can it be put to the uses to which my wife's hand must be put, Elsie?" 
               She looked at him with passionate devotion, saying: 
               "Take the jewels off and cast them from thee, Magnus-do!" 
               "And this slender wrist-you have such a beautiful arm, Elsie! What a round, full graceful curve from the elbow to the forearm, and how elegantly it tapers off to the slender wrist! Ah! this arm, so pure and fresh, so well decked with this sparkling diamond bracelet-like icicles upon snow! How will it support labour?" 
               "The bracelet offends you, too? It was my father's birthday gift; but I like it no longer-it offends you. Take it off and cast it from you. Press your thumb and finger around my arm instead. Press it tightly, so that you will leave a ring there. It will be a red bracelet-or even a black one; so that when I can no longer see you, I may close my eyes, and, feeling the impress of your fingers, cheat my heart with the fancy that you still grasp my wrist with a sweet violence. It will be another dearer bracelet that I will wear in remembrance of you. Oh, don't you know I understand now the enthusiasm of the saints?" 
               "Dearest Elsie, let us go forth from here. The light, the glare, the crowd, the noise here is insufferable. Let us go forth in the fresh air under the light of the holy stars. Come, love! My heart hungers, faints to press you to itself. Come, love!" And opening a leaf of the bay window, he led her forth. It was a mild, clear, beautiful star-light night for the season, yet the air was chill, and Elsie was lightly clad. He looked at her and glanced around. The lighted window of a sitting-room in the angle of the building showed that apartment to be vacant. He led her there. It was one of those small conical wainscoted parlours so common in old houses. A fine fire was burning in the chimney, and a little old-fashioned green settee drawn up on one side of the fire-place. The room had an air of delightful snugness, comfort, and repose. He led her to this sofa and seated himself beside her, opened his arms and whispered-"Come to my bosom, my own soul's love!" and folded her closely there. "Elsie, my pure, fresh, delicate, elegant Elsie, can you go with me indeed to share my lot of poverty and struggle? Oh, Elsie! if you do, will you never repent? Oh, Elsie! do you know what poverty is? born and brought up in luxury and wealth, do you know what poverty is? Oh, Elsie! my little idealist, there is no poetry in poverty. Oh, Elsie! my little epicurienne, every sense is shocked and tortured in poverty. You see unsightly things, you hear discordant sounds, you come in contact with roughness, you partake of coarse food; oh, Elsie! ideality is wounded and saddened, sense is shocked, and love itself, perhaps, revolted!" 
               "Never! oh, never!" she said, fervently. 
               "Oh, Elsie! my bright, beautiful Elsie! my delicate, elegant gant Elsie! I am worse than an executioner to marry you. I feel it, and yet I shall do it. God knows that I WILL HAVE you, and let the future take care of itself!" he said, pressing her strongly to his bosom. 
               "Yes, have me, have me; let me be always with you. It will be bliss ineffable. I should die if you were to leave me. My heart would consume itself in its own fires. I do not care for wealth, or rank, or distinction, or for ease or luxury. I only care for the wealth and luxury of your affection, and your constant society. I do not fear to have 'ideality wounded and saddened.' No, for the soul creates its own poetry. I do not fear to have every sense shocked. I do not fear to live amid unsightly objects and discordant sounds, and rough contacts; oh no, for the soul creates its own heaven of beauty and harmony. I do not fear to have love revolted. Oh! no, no, no! I only fear a separation from you. My whole being trembling, tends towards you-so strong, as it would lose itself in you. Shut out the world, shut out light and sound, only let me feel your arms around me, pressing my bosom to your heart as now. All my life is compressed within my heart, and it is bursting to meet yours. I am blind, deaf, dead to all but you. I have scarcely self enough to say 'I have no self.' I love myself in you. Oh, my greater self! my larger life!" 
               So the softly flushed and moist cheeks, the heavy, heavy liquid eyes, and the palpitating bosom said, but no word escaped the parted and glowing lips. Nor could a word have escaped between the kisses that were pressed upon them. Then he released her, and they sat upon the old-fashioned sofa by the glowing hickory fire in the old wainscoted parlour, and, hand in hand, talked. Oh! how they talked! Sometimes with profound earnestness, sometimes with light and bantering gayety. 
               "Yet you have had many admirers, Elsie," said Magnus. 
               "Have I?" she asked. 
               "Oh, Elsie, you know that you have." 
               "I try not to know it." 
               "Why, dearest?" 
               "Because I wish I was an Eastern bride for you. Oh, yes! I wish that I had been reared in conventual seclusion, that no man's eye had seen me until my husband came to claim me; that, then, I could have gone apart from the world and seen only him. That would have been exquisite; that would have been blissful; for I do not want admiration; I want' only your heart's approval. There would be such intense and concentrated joy in knowing only you. My joy would be diluted if my heart were divided among many." 
               "But your numerous admirers, dearest?" 
               "Oh! my numerous admirers, I did not finesse when I asked you if I really had any; for, in truth, my 'admirers' never came near enough to me to breathe their admiration." 
               "Why was that? How was that? Tell me." 
               "Look in my eyes, love, and read your answer there, Peruse my heart, love. It lies open to you as a book." 
               "Nay, tell me. I love to hear you talk. It delights me to listen to you. Tell me now. It is some sweet secret that will give me heaven to know. Come, love, be generous. Breathe the secret out upon my bosom," he whispered softly, and drew her again to his heart. "Come, love-" 
               "Yes, I will. I will repress this feeling of reluctance, and tell you all my thoughts. Yes, for surely I feel you have a right to have an answer to any question you ask me, my higher self. Listen, then. Bend low, for I shall whisper very low, lest the air around should hear me. When you first drew me on to love you, when, leaf my leaf, my heart unfolded and developed under the life-giving warmth of your eyes, of your touch, just as a rose buds and blooms under the rays of its sovereign, the sun, it-my heart I mean, or something rising within it-taught me many mysteries that neither prophet, priest, nor sage could have taught me. Among other things it revealed to me the knowledge of all that would please and all that would displease you in myself, and impelled me to follow the first and eschew the last. It made me wish to isolate myself for you. It killed the very first germ of vanity in my heart, and made me wish that none should come near enough to me to know whether I were beautiful or otherwise, far less so near as to tell me of it. It made me shrink from all those little gallantries from gentlemen, which make up so large a portion of a belle's life. I was so afraid of being found unworthy of you when you should take me. I should not have felt good enough for you if my hand, that awaited your hand, had been squeezed and kissed, and my waist, that awaited the dear girdle of this arm-fold it closer round me now-had been pressed, and I, your expectant bride, had been twined and whirled about in the giddy waltz. But none of these things have happened to me. I come to you almost an oriental bride for exclusiveness, and that makes me so happy. I should have else been unhappy, should else have been unworthy of you." 
               All this was murmured slowly, softly, dreamily, as though the truth stole out of a slumbering heart, while she lay upon his bosom, and the last words were breathed forth in an almost inaudible sigh. But he answered with passionate vehemence, clasping her to his heart- 
               "Unworthy of me! You! so beautiful! so good! so intellectual!-save when your highest intellect is 'whelmed in feeling!-yet, no-your highest intelligence-your spirit-is never so 'whelmed! You, the heiress of the haughtiest family in Maryland-and I-who am I?" 
               "My greater self! my life-giver!-by these titles only I know you. Does my rank and fortune offend you? Pluck me away from them; for I am yours. Bury me with yourself, in some lone forest-cabin, in the wilderness, whither your footsteps tend; and there my hunter's wife will forget the world, while preparing his cabin for his return at eve. And she will not think the hours of his absence long, for they will be filled with fervent thoughts of him. Oh! that hunter's lodge in the wild! I see it even in my dreams!" 
               And this was not romance; but the passionate fanaticism of first, of early love. 
               "Oh, Elsie! how you talk!" he exclaimed, gazing on her eloquent face with wonder, reverence, and passion. 
               She blushed deeply, and bowed her crimson brow upon his bosom, murmuring, 
               "Do I? I am sorry. I suppose maidens do not talk so; do they?" 
               "I do not know how maidens do or should talk, any more than you do," answered Magnus, and then a singular expression passed over his countenance. He bent his gaze upon her, with a look of profound thought and searching inquiry, as though to read the depths of that heart she had so freely laid open to his perusal. And he said, very seriously, "I do not know how maidens talk, for I have spoken with but one maiden before of love." He paused, and gazed down deeply into her eyes, as if to read her most hidden thought and feeling-possibly he expected to see some trace of jealousy there-he saw only the calm, profound repose of love, deep joy, and infinite trust. He resumed-"I never talked with but one maiden of love before; she was my first love." Again he looked down, and saw upon her beautiful face the same ineffable repose. He continued-"I loved her passionately. I lost her. It nearly maddened me." For the last time he gazed down upon her, as she lay quietly over his arm, with her face turned up to his, but her whole countenance radiated with a sort of calm, rapt ecstasy, as though she were then in the possession of all the bliss possible on earth. He gazed for a moment, full of astonishment, and then quietly asked, "Is it possible that this gives you no uneasiness, my love?" 
               "Does what?" 
               "The thought of my first love." 
               "No, dearest. Why should it?" 
               "'Why should it?' What a question. Why should it not?" 
               "I do not know, I am sure. When I do, I will tell you." 
               "Yet," said Magnus thoughtfully, "though the idea of my having had a first love gives you no pain, you felicitated yourself and me very much upon the fact of your having had no other lover." 
               "Oh! that was a very different thing. Don't you feel that it was?" 
               "Yes; I feel it. But tell me now-think-why is it that the thought of my first love does not distress you?" 
               "Indeed I do not know at all. I only know by the sure inspiration of my soul, and feel in every nerve of my body, that you love me; and I am so ineffably blessed." 
               "My darling Elsie!" he said, joyously kissing the lids down upon her two sweet eyes. "My darling Elsie, you are not selfish or jealous for yourself, at all. I only wished to probe your heart a little. You were so jealous for me that I thought perhaps you might be so for yourself. You were not, my darling Elsie; my light of life! You are the only woman I ever loved! Yet, dearest, I told you no fiction. You, yourself, were 'the maiden to whom I spoke before of love.' But it was soon after you returned from school. You, yourself, was the maiden whom I lost-for a little while, during our short misunderstanding-and whose loss nearly maddened me. Oh, come! enter my heart of hearts, and live there for ever!" He clasped her closer, and they subsided into silence, or conversed only with their eyes. 
               Long, long they remained in that still trance of joy, but at last Elsie withdrew herself, laughing, from his arms, sat down beside him, and they began to talk of their future home. He told her it would be indeed a cabin in the backwoods of Maryland; but not a hunter's cabin, as she fancifully supposed. Oh, no! but a country doctor's dwelling, in a new settlement. And that he would not return at eve in the hunter's picturesque costume, with a gun and a nine-antlered deer across his broad shoulders, but upon the back of a stout mule, with a country doctor's saddle-bags behind him. How would she like that? 
               "Oh, very well, dearest Magnus! for then you will be saving life instead of taking it. Oh, yes, I do like-I do love your profession, Magnus. Since you must have one, I like it better than any other you could have chosen. I think physicians do more disinterested good than any other set of men on earth. I will not even except the preachers. Oh! yes, I do love your profession, dear Magnus, and love you better, if possible, for being a poor country doctor. God love and bless you! When you shall have come home tired, from your long round-oh, you shall have sweet repose, love-indeed you shall. God bids me to assure you that you shall. Whatever our cabin home may be, I can make it a little haven of repose-a little heaven of bliss for you. Oh, indeed I do not fear! my whole full soul assures me that we shall be happy and victorious over fate. Let me kiss your eyes!-you kissed mine just now-so sweetly-God bless those grand eyes! Oh, Magnus! can a cabin or a garb of homespun hide the light, the greatness that is in you? Oh, Magnus! I saw a king and several princes of the blood when I was presented at court by General Armstrong; but, their foreheads were low and receding, their presence had the strut without the dignity of majesty. Oh, Magnus! their kingly crown could not have given either that magnificent forehead of yours. Oh, Magnus! there is something greater in you than any surrounding you can have. Do not any more dread that I shall be either pained or revolted at anything in the circumstances of our condition. The rough walls of a log cabin will not shock or sadden me." 
               "No, darling, for the rough walls of our log cabin, like the rough bark of an oak tree, has something really picturesque about it; but-" said he in a half-sorrowful, half-comic way-"the pots and kettles, the mops and brooms!" 
               "What! the humble little household gods and goddesses, that set up no pretension to worship, or even to honourable mention, and yet confer so much benefit? No, indeed. I have a kindly feeling for all such. Mine, if they can't be beautiful, shall be neat and pretty. Oh! don't you remember when we were children, and used to run in out of the snow to old Aunt Polly's kitchen, and how she'd press us in to help her every time she could? Oh! I know a great deal about cooking, and I always had a turn for housekeeping." 
               He arose, took her hand, and raised her up, and looked at her from head to foot, as she stood-that delicate, beautiful girl, in her elegant ball-dress of gossamer crape over white satin, diamonds sparkling on her arms and neck, as he had said, like icicles upon snow. He surveyed her, from her white rose-wreathed auburn hair to the tip of the white satin slipper. He clasped her hand, and looked at it. 
               "I know," she said, "what you are thinking of again!-'Elsie must doff this dress, and this style of dress, for some years to come!'-but do not fear; within ten years, and by the time that the beauty that your love has matured, Elsie will weave a more elegant dress than this, when her husband's talents shall have 'achieved greatness.' And this little hand that you look at so fondly, so sadly; 'this pure, fresh, delicate thing-a jewel itself,' as you called it just now; under this soft, white cushion of flesh are nerves and sinews of steel. I am very strong, dear Magnus, very strong every way. And I can work; this hand shall toil and retain its beauty, because you prize it, too." 
               He clasped her again to his breast, and drew her white arms up around his neck. And then that notion of isolation came upon her again like a fond superstition, and she whispered- 
               "I do not want neighbours or friends where we live, love. I want only you. I want no one that can take me off from you.--It is late. Shall I go?" 
               "Yes, dear love," he answered, untwining her arms from about his neck. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               ELSIE IN THE ATTIC. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           To-night, when my head aches indeed, 
                           And I can neither think nor read, 
                           And these blue fingers will not hold 
                           The pen-(This attic 's freezing cold)- 
                           I tell you, I pace up and down 
                           This garret, crowned with love's best crown, 
                           And feasted with love's perfect feast, 
                           To think I bear for him at least.
                            
                        
                      
                     -BROWNING. 
                   
                
               WHEN they re-entered the ball-room, the revelry was still at its height. Six cotillions were on the floor. 
               Judge Jacky was flying about, now here, and now there, now everywhere at once. 
               Ambrosia Wylie, in a gold-coloured satin, that harmonized well with her warm-hued tone of beauty, sat in the bay window, the sunny centre of a system of satellites. 
               General Garnet, who had got through with the political business that detained him at Huttontown, had just arrived, and was now standing apart, conversing with Lionel Hardcastle. He frowned darkly on seeing Elsie enter the room, leaning on the arm of Magnus, and both looking so self-possessed, confident, and happy. 
               He smoothed his brow quickly, however, excused himself to Lionel, and advanced towards them. Bowing slightly to Magnus, he took the arm of Elsie, and saying that he wished to have a conversation with her, drew her off for a promenade. 
               In going off, Elsie turned, smiled on Magnus, and said, 
               "If I do not return in half an hour, Doctor Hardcastle, you must seek me out," and, bowing playfully, she went on. 
               "Was that done to insult me, Miss Garnet?" 
               "No, dearest father, it was done out of respect to Doctor Hardcastle; as you forgot to excuse yourself to him for taking me off so abruptly, it would have been scarcely courteous in me to have left him without a word. We would not have treated a common acquaintance so, father." 
                
               "A common acquaintance! And pray what more is Doctor Hardcastle entitled henceforth to be considered?" 
               "As my husband, and your son-in-law, father." 
               General Garnet turned pale, and spoke low, with suppressed rage: 
               "Your husband, and my son-in-law!-I-would-see-him-and-you -in the lowest pit of H-L first!" 
               Elsie gave a violent start, as this awful word struck her like a bullet. It was the more awful, that Elsie had never known her father to forget himself so far before. Violence shocked her, profanity revolted her; she was unaccustomed to either. Her father, even in his tyranny, was habitually polite. Her mother was ever gentle. Fury, threats, were strange to her; and now came this terrible burst of passion, the more terrible for its half suppression. She gazed at him in alarm. His face was white with anger, but it reminded her of the white ashes upon a burning coal. He continued in the same deep, stern tone, 
               "How dared you even receive that young man's attentions, after I have withdrawn my countenance from him?" 
               "Father, because his attentions were my right and his right. Who else, in your absence, could have attended me with so much propriety?" asked Elsie, trembling in her flesh, but firm in her spirit. 
               "Do not commit the impertinence of answering my question by asking another again, Miss Garnet. A question which, impertinent as it was, I will answer. 'Who,' you inquire, 'in my absence, could have attended you with so much propriety?' I reply, Mr. Lionel Hardcastle, the gentleman under whose protection I placed you for the evening." 
               "And who wickedly abused his position, by addressing the words of love to one whom he knew to be Doctor Hardcastle's betrothed wife." 
               "DEATH!-if you say that again," exclaimed General Garnet, trembling with fury- 
               "And whom," continued Elsie, frightened, but resolute, "I had therefore to dismiss as soon as I found Doctor Hardcastle." 
               He grasped her arm with a violence that might have crushed it. He set his teeth, and drew his breath hard. He could not shake or beat her there-not in that room full of company-among those hundreds of people. He could not even let them see the rage that was on the eve of explosion. 
                
               He looked around. Seeing Lionel Hardcastle at a short distance, he beckoned him to approach, and, without relinquishing his vice-like grip, said, in a deep, hurried tone, 
               "Do me the favour to call my carriage, sir, instantly, if you please." 
               Lionel opened his soft, bright eyes, in a look of wide surprise, turned on Elsie a gaze of mingled admiration, sorrow, and deprecation, and bowing to General Garnet, moved off to comply with his request. General Garnet drew Elsie after him, and pushed off towards the hall. 
               He was met full tilt by Judge Jacky, who raised and spread out both his arms to intercept them, exclaiming, 
               "Heyday! what's this?-ordered your carriage? Why, it has been put away, and the horses have been stabled this four or five hours. I thought you were going to take a night with us-had your rooms prepared." 
               "My business is exigent! Let me pass, sir, if you please!" said General Garnet, in the deep, stern, unnatural voice in which he had spoken before. 
               "Why, what the d-I's the matter?-what's happened? Let you pass, and supper just going on the table? D-d if I do!" 
               "Judge Wylie," said General Garnet, with forced politeness, "you will be good enough to excuse me; my business demands my immediate return home." 
               "Well, then, go, neighbour. Go, in the d-I's name! though I am sorry; but you must not take our Rose of the World with you. Leave Miss Elsie behind." 
               "Sir, it is the necessity of withdrawing my daughter from this, that constrains my return home. Good evening, sir. When shall we have the honour of seeing you at Mount Calm?" 
               "Oh, I don't know-I don't know, neighbour-I don't know. I have a great mind to swear!" 
               "Give my adieus and respects to your charming daughter, sir. Once more, good evening," said General Garnet, moving on. 
               "Good evening-good evening. I have a great mind to swear, d-d if I haven't!" 
               "Your carriage waits, General Garnet," said Lionel, approaching. 
               "Judge Wylie," said Elsie, recalling her host, "will you be kind enough to take my good-bye to Doctor Hardcastle, and tell him that my father has taken me home?" 
               "Certainly, Blooming Rose, certainly- 
                     'Love's heralds should be thoughts.'"
                   And he hurried off to do her bidding. General Garnet grasped her arm with a suppressed fierceness, and pulled her after him into the hall, thence out into the portico, and down the steps to the carriage-door. Pushing her forcibly in, he jumped in after, pulled to the door, commanded the coachman to drive rapidly for Mount Calm, and was soon whirled away on the road to that place. He maintained a stern silence towards Elsie during the whole ride. 
               Arrived at Mount Calm, he sprang from the carriage, took Elsie out, drew her arm roughly within his own, and pulled her up the steps. 
               "Has your mistress retired?" was the first question he asked of the servant at the door. The man started at the fierce abruptness of his master's tone and manner, and replied, hurriedly, that she had. 
               "It is very well. Go wake up the housekeeper; ask her for the keys of the attic-room, and bring them to me yourself, with a night-lamp." 
               The man hurried away in dismay. And General Garnet remained there, still with his violent grasp upon Elsie's arm. When the servant returned with the bunch of keys and the light- 
               "Precede me up stairs, and on up into the attic," said General Garnet; and grasping Elsie more tightly, he fiercely hurried her on, till they reached the first floor, and the wide hall into which the family chambers opened. 
               "Father, this is my chamber-door. I wish to retire," said Elsie, pointing to the door on her left. But her father hurried her past it. 
               The servant was now going up the attic-steps, but paused to look down upon the scene. 
               "Father, what are you about to do?" asked Elsie, holding back. Her attire had been very much disordered by the violence with which she had been hurried in, her cloak and hood had fallen off below stairs; now her beautiful dress was tumbled, and her hair in wild disorder. "What are you going to do, father?" she asked again, drawing back. 
               But he turned upon her sharply, shook her furiously, as though he would have shaken the life from out her; and then seeing the horrified gaze of the servant standing on the stairs, he exclaimed, "Up into the attic, and wait for me there, instantly, sirrah. And consider yourself already sold to a trader, for your insolence in watching me!" 
               The appalled servant vanished up the steps, and the unmasked tyrant turned to Elsie, and tightening the grasp that he had never relinquished, dragged her to the foot of the attic-stairs. Here the girl sank with all her weight upon him, upheld only by his hand. 
               "Up, up the stairs with you!" he exclaimed, fiercely. 
               Elsie had too much physical strength to swoon, and too much presence of mind to scream. She would not have terrified her poor mother to no good purpose. Yet her agitation was so great, with augmented astonishment and terror, that she could not move. 
               He seized her violently, drew her up the stairs until they had reached the narrow attic-passage, and commanding the negro to unlock the door that stood before them, forced her into the room, dismissed the servant, locked the door on the inside, and turned upon her. Elsie had dropped into an old flag-bottomed arm-chair, where she sat shivering with cold and fear. He turned upon that delicate and trembling girl fiercely, scornfully, triumphantly, tauntingly, as if she had been some rough male adversary in his power. He placed the key in his pocket, buttoned up his over-coat, and stood looking at her with a bitter, sarcastic laugh, saying, 
               "You have insulted and provoked me sufficiently this evening, Miss Garnet! You were very happy and confident, an hour ago. What do you think of your prospects now?" 
               Elsie shuddered and was silent. 
               "Can you escape from this room? Will you jump from one of those windows and fall an hundred feet? Will your lover find a ladder long enough to reach you? I think not. Can you break that lock? I think not. Will you bribe your jailor? I think not; for I shall be your jailor myself. No one else shall enter this room. And now listen to me," and taking a chair, he sat down before her, and said in a hard, harsh voice, "I do not care one jot for all the miserable, contemptible love sentiment in the world; I never did! I do not believe in it. I never did! But that which I want, and that which I will have, is the union of these two joining estates, Mount Calm and Hemlock Hollow. That project is as dear to old Mr. Hardcastle, as it is to me. It was for that reason, and not upon account of any trifling, mutual predilection of yours, that we were about to negotiate a marriage between my daughter and his nephew, when fortunately Lionel came home in time to arrest the execution of the plan; of course it was perfectly easy to see what then became the duty of all parties." 
               "Fidelity," said Elsie in a low voice. 
               General Garnet laughed tauntingly, and continued without further notice of her reply. 
               "The young man who was to inherit the estate was to have the bride. It mattered nothing to me whether that were Magnus or Lionel; but the hand of my heiress was to be bestowed upon the heir of Hemlock Hollow. That was the treaty. So I reminded old Mr. Hardcastle. He remembered that it really was so, and fully and entirely agreed with me. Young Lionel Hardcastle is also comformable. You only are contumacious. But I have pledged myself to your consent, and, by Heaven, you shall redeem my pledge. Listen, minion! You never leave this room until you leave it as the wife of Lionel Hardcastle. Curious place for a marriage ceremony! but, come, it does not matter; we can have the wedding afterwards. You were to be the wife of Doctor Hardcastle, as you very respectfully call him, on Thursday week. Ha! ha! ha! Come, what do you think of your prospects of marrying him now?" 
               "Father, as far as my marriage with Dr. Hardcastle on Thursday week is concerned, my fate has gone out of my hands and into God's! I have no more to say about that." 
               "Ha! ha! I should think not. Not quite so confident as you were an hour ago, hey?" 
               "But, father, forgive me for reminding you that as far as marriage with any other person is concerned, that is entirely in my hands for refusal. Church and state very properly make the bride's consent an indispensable preliminary to marriage, and even a vital part of the marriage ceremony. And my consent can never be gained to marry Lionel." 
               "Ha! my pretty piece of stubbornness, we shall see. Pray, do you know? have you ever felt the power of solitary imprisonment, cold, and hunger, in bringing a contumacious girl to docility?" 
               Elsie's face flushed, more for him than herself. 
               He continued: 
                
               "For all those mighty engines can I spring upon you! And will I, by Satan and all his hosts!" 
               "Father, you may do that, and nature may faint and succumb to their power. I am very strong, but those things you threaten me with may be stronger still. But, father, if ever I am left with strength enough to stand before the minister with Lionel Hardcastle by my side, when that minister shall ask me, whether I will promise to love, honour, and obey him till death, I shall answer, 'No, I do not love him, I never did, I never shall. If I stand here to be married to him, it is to please my father, his father, and not myself! And so I cannot tell a falsehood, far less vow one in God's presence about it. I love Dr. Hardcastle, to whom you all know that I have been long engaged. I always did love him, and always shall,' and then let the minister of God marry us, if he durst." 
               With a furious oath he sprang upon her-seized her-the idea of strangling her upon the instant darted through his brain; but he only shook her with frenzied violence, and holding her in his terrible grip, said, with a husky voice and ashen cheek, and gleaming eye, 
               "If you were to do so, girl, as God in Heaven hears me, I would kill you!" 
               And she felt to the very core of her shuddering heart that he told the truth. Then he dropped her, and threw himself out of the room, leaving her there, half dead with cold and fright, in the miserably bleak attic, without a spark of fire or light, for the lamp had been blown out by the fury with which her father had banged the door. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               CRUELTY-A CHAMBER SCENE. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Thou knowest not the meekness of love, 
                           How it suffers and yet can be still- 
                           How the calm on its surface may prove 
                           What sorrow the bosom may fill. 
                        
                      
                     -MRS. ELLIS. 
                   
                
               EARLY the next morning Mrs. Garnet-I suppose, reader, we must begin to call her Mrs. Garnet habitually, now that she is thirty-three years of age, and has, besides, a marriageable daughter, although the delicate, girlish figure, and the roseate, girlish face, softly shaded by the amber-coloured ringlets of the lady, still suggest the sweet, familiar name of Alice-Well, Mrs. Garnet arose softly, without awaking the General, and thrusting her small feet in wadded slippers, and drawing on her wadded dressing-gown, passed into her daughter's chamber, for the purpose of looking silently upon her while she slept, to see whether she bore the fatigue of the ball well. She went in softly, drew the curtains of the bedstead, and to her surprise, found that it had not been slept in. Her first thought, of course, was, that Elsie had remained all night at Point Pleasant. 
               She felt disappointed, and returned immediately to her own chamber, rang for her maid, and proceeded with her morning toilet. 
               Her maid, Milly, entered, bearing on her arm the cloak and hood that Elsie had worn to Point Pleasant, and afterwards dropped, while being dragged through the passage. Mrs. Garnet gazed at her in fixed astonishment, saying, 
               "Why, where did you get those, Milly? Is it possible that your Miss Elsie has returned so early this morning? Where is she?" 
               "Miss Elsie returned last night, misses, and must have dropped these in the passage, for I found them there." 
                
               "Returned last night! her bed has not been occupied! Where is she?" exclaimed Mrs. Garnet, dropping the long mass of golden curls that she had been twisting into a knot, and standing aghast with vague terror. "Where is she? What is the meaning of this? Why do you look so strangely? Oh, my God! what has happened to my child? Speak this moment, Milly! What do you know of it?" 
               "I thought you must a known, Miss Ally; Marster's locked her up in the garret." 
               All the blood of the Chesters rushed to the brow of Alice, and crimsoned it. 
               "Locked Elsie up in the attic!" she exclaimed-then, "Give me the keys! Where are they? Bring me the keys instantly!" 
               "Please, Miss Ally, marster took the garret key off of the bunch, and put it in his pocket." 
               "Leave me, Milly. Go! Hasten! Go down stairs! I don't want you this morning," said Alice, conscious of having betrayed too much emotion in the presence of her servant. 
               Milly left the room, and Alice hastened, with a flushed brow, and trembling hand, to the big arm-chair at the head of the bed, over the back of which hung the General's clothing, that he had worn the night before. Alice searched all the pockets of the overcoat in vain. And she took up the dress coat. 
               But while Alice was hunting for the key, the General had risen upon his elbow, and, unseen by her, was watching her motions with a demoniac leer. 
               Alice searched all the pockets of the dress coat, and it was not there. Then she raised the vest, and in the pocket found the key. She seized it eagerly, and was about to fly off with it, when a heavy blow felled her to the floor! The key dropped from her hand. General Garnet stooped and repossessed himself of it, and looking at her with a laughing devil in his eye, said, 
               "Oh! was that you? Excuse me, madam! I beg ten thousand pardons; but waking up suddenly, and seeing a hand in my pocket, I naturally enough supposed it to be that of a thief! It's heaven's mercy that I had not shot you by mistake, my dear!" 
               But seeing that she did not move, he leaned farther over the side of the bed, and perceived, that in falling, the back of her head had struck the corner of the dressing-bureau, and that she was stunned by the concussion-stunned, or dead! he did not know which. He jumped to the floor and raised her. Her head and limbs fell helplessly over his arms. He laid her on the bed, ran his fingers through the golden tresses of her hair, but found no fracture; there might be a concussion of the brain, but there was no outward sign. 
               He started to the bell to ring it, but before he got there, changed his mind and returned-locked the door-went to the bureau, and taking a couple of linen handkerchiefs, tore them in strips, and took a lancet from his case-(all planters keep such things for the exigencies of the plantation.) He then went to the bedside, ripped up the sleeve of Alice's dress, and baring the arm, opened a vein. As the blood began to flow first very sluggishly, then faster, she opened her eyes, and looked at him. He then bound up her arm, and telling her that he hoped this sharp lesson would teach her the danger of opposing his will again, left her, and proceeded to dress himself. 
               Alice attempted to rise, but her head grew dizzy, her eyes dim, and she sank back at the same moment that he sternly bade her be still, and not venture to leave her bed that day. He dressed, and left the chamber. 
               That morning General Garnet breakfasted alone. After breakfast he paid a visit to Elsie, found her sick with cold and loss of sleep, had a fire made in the room, a cot-bed and bedding conveyed there, and then some comfortable clothing and her breakfast. Then he locked the door, put the key in his pocket, forbid all the house servants from going up to the attic upon any pretence whatever, under the severest penalties, and left the house for the day. Then Milly-you know Milly, reader, the girl who had waited on Alice's mother-and was now Alice's own maid-Milly poured out a cup of coffee, and took a plate of toast and went up into her mistress's room. Milly sat down in the big easy-chair by the side of the bed, and holding the little waiter in her lap, began to try to persuade her mistress to take something. But Alice still shook her head in silent refusal. Milly then got up, and setting the waiter down upon the bureau, returned to the bedside, and looked at her prostrate mistress in fear. 
               "Dear Miss Ally, what is the matter? What has happened pened? Oh, you do look so pale! And your lips are so blue! And, oh, my good Lord, your eyes are so, so heavy! Dearest Miss Ally, I must send for a doctor, 'deed I must." 
               "No, no," faltered Alice. 
               "Oh, indeed, Miss Ally, it ain't no use to say no. I really must. You look like death. And your arm is tied up, too. Good gracious, Miss Ally, honey, is your arm hurt? Miss Ally, honey, tell your old Aunt Milly what's the matter. You knows I'se a faithful frien' to you, if I is a poor slave nigger. Tell your ole Aunt Milly, honey. You know I's a heap older and more 'sperienced than you. You know, honey, I nursed you when you was a little gal no more an so high. Is your arm hurted, honey? Maybe it's out o' place? Let me send for the doctor. Let me send right off for your own young Doctor Hardcastle now." 
               "No, Milly; no, my arm is not hurt, Milly. I-I fell, Milly, and struck my head, I think. General Garnet had the presence of mind to bleed me-and-perhaps that saved my life. Have you-have you seen your Miss Elsie this morning?" 
               "No, God knows, Miss Ally, I hasn't, to my sorrow. Marster's locked her up and gone off with the key (what a blessed thing it would be, my blessed Lord, if he would get his neck broke and never come back again," said Milly to herself, and then continued aloud)-"he forbid all us coloured people from going a near the child, or even going up the garret steps, and said he'd sell the first nigger to Georgy as disobeyed him-but, in course, Miss Ally, if you tell us to go up we goes-let the quincequonces be what they may, cause we all come by the Chesters, and feels bound to sarve them, and none o' the proud Garnets." 
               "Milly, I'm sick; don't compel me to tell you again that you must not and shall not speak of your master in that manner. General Garnet is my husband and your master, and master of the house and the plantation. His orders must be literally obeyed by you all. As for Elsie, I must rise as soon as I can and visit her myself," said Alice, and then she sunk into the silence of exhaustion. 
               Milly employed herself for half an hour in putting the room to rights. At the end of that time, Alice called her, saying, 
               "Milly, I do not think, after all, that I shall be able to rise to-day. Bring me a lead pencil from my writing-desk and a sheet of paper, and a book to write on, and help me up." 
               Milly got the desired materials, and setting them before her mistress, placed her arms under her shoulders and raised her up. But Alice, as soon as she was lifted, turned deadly sick, her head grew giddy, her eyes filmed over, and she looked so much like fainting, that her alarmed maid laid her back again. 
               "I cannot do it, Milly, you may go. I wanted to write a note, but I cannot do it yet, Milly; you may go," at length she faltered. 
               Again Milly besought permission to send for a physician; but Mrs. Garnet shook her head in silent denial, and the maid, with many doubts and forebodings, retired. 
               At noon, General Garnet returned and entered the room, and approaching the bedside, asked Alice how she felt. 
               "Only drowsy, inclined to sleep while lying down, but sick and dizzy, and blind when I attempt to rise." 
               "If that be the case you must not, upon any account, yield to that inclination to sleep. It is dangerous; you must rise and sit up." 
               "I cannot-I wish I could-I cannot. I turn deadly sick as soon as my head is lifted." 
               "Alice-I-I think I must bleed you again," he said, taking out the lancet and baring her arm. Then he hesitated a moment; he doubted whether this second bleeding would be right, but he resolved to risk it rather than risk the exposure of their secret by sending for a physician. He opened the vein again, and while the blood was trickling, looked so full of solicitude, that Alice felt sorry for him, and said, 
               "Never mind; don't you know I knew it was an accident-the striking of my head against the bureau." She now looked so much better again that he ventured to say, as he bound up her arm, 
               "I hope, Alice, that this will be a profitable lesson to you at least. Consider. You-you might have been killed." Then he raised her in a sitting posture, propped pillows behind her, took a seat in the big chair, and said, "This is really a trifle as it turns out, Alice. This dizziness will soon pass away if you sit up. Only, I hope, as I said before, that this will be a warning to you, for it might have been much more serious, or even fatal. It is dangerous, Alice, dangerous ous to rebel either by stratagem or force against just authority. And, now listen, for I wish to talk to you of Elsie for two reasons-first, to keep you from falling into an injurious sleep; and, secondly, to let you know my reason for confining her, and my plans and purposes towards her." 
               And then General Garnet, for the first time, openly avowed to his wife his fixed determination to break off for ever the projected marriage between Magnus and Elsie, and to bestow the hand of the latter upon Lionel Hardcastle, giving her his reasons in full for doing so, and declaring his intention to keep Elsie confined until her consent was obtained, and to take her then from her room at once to the altar, that no deception might be practised. Alice dreaded lest he should ask her opinion, or her co-operation. Fortunately for her, he did not consider either of the least importance, and soon rising, left the room and went down to dinner. 
               Alice pressed both hands to her head, and groaned forth the prayer- 
               "Oh, God! guide me aright through this labyrinth of crossing duties, lest I lose my way!" 
               In the afternoon, General Garnet went out again. 
               And soon after he was gone, Milly entered her mistress's chamber, and put in her hand a little slip of paper, which she said Elsie had given her as she handed in her dinner. 
               Alice took it eagerly. It was the fly-leaf of her pocket prayer-book, and on it was picked with a pin the sentence, 
               "Say something to me, beloved mother." 
               Alice asked for a pencil, and wrote, 
               "To-morrow I will write, dear child." And then the pencil dropped from her hand. "Milly, when you take her supper up, give her that," she said, and closed her eyes from exhaustion. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               MARRIAGE. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Take her, and be faithful still, 
                           And may the marriage vow 
                           Be sacred kept in after years, 
                           And fondly breathed as now. 
                        
                      
                     -OLD SONG. 
                   
                
               THE next morning, after General Garnet had left the house-for the whole day-Alice arose, still dizzy and weak, not only from the effects of the blow, but from fasting and anxiety. She was scarcely seated in her chair, when a letter was brought her, that had com in the mail-bag from the post-office. It was superscribed in the handwriting of Doctor Hardcastle. Alice tore it open, and read a much longer epistle than I can find space to transcribe here, reader; but the sum total of it was this: Magnus informed his friend Alice of what she already knew-General Garnet's expressed determination to break the engagement existing between himself and Elsie, for mere mercenary motives; of his own and Elsie's fixed resolution to abide by their betrothal, and his hopes that their decision would meet her-Alice's-approval. He told her of his wish that their marriage should take place on Thursday, as had been first proposed; and of his intention to depart on the following Monday, for his home, among the new settlements in the back-woods of Maryland. He told her, farther, that he had called the day before to see her and Elsie, but that he had been refused admittance at the very threshold, the servants adducing their master's commands as their warrant. He had heard, he said, that Elsie was immured, but hoped and believed that this was not so. He concluded by entreating Alice to write and inform him of her own and Elsie's state of health and spirits, and advise him how to proceed. 
               Alice folded the letter, clasped her hands, and closed her eyes a moment in intense thought and prayer. Then, bidding Milly wheel her writing-table before her, she took pen and paper, and wrote the following short but important note: 
                
               
                   
                      
                         
                           DEAR MAGNUS:-As soon as you see this, go to a lock-smith, and send him instantly to me. Then get a carriage, procure your license, call at Figs's, to take up the young Methodist minister who boards there, and come at once to Mount Calm. When you return, Elsie shall accompany you. 
                           
                              Your friend, 
                              ALICE GARNET.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               She sealed this note, despatched it, and then dropped her head into her hands, holding it tightly, as though to chain thought to its object. Then once more she drew her writing-desk nearer to her, took her pen, and wrote these hurried lines to Elsie: 
               
                  "Within a very few hours from this, my own dear Elsie, you will be released and married. And now let me tell you, my own dear child, my reasons for advising and aiding you in this step. It is not only, my Elsie, that your heart has long been given to Magnus; that your hand has long been pledged to him with the approbation of both your parents; that your happiness is concerned in being united to him; that your honour is implicated in keeping faith with him;-it is not, either, that it would be a heinous wickedness to forsake your betrothed at the very moment that fortune forsakes him, and in the hour of his greatest adversity; it is not that this very desertion of yours would shake his faith in all that is good and true in Heaven or on earth, palsy his energy and enterprise, and thus do him a serious moral and social injury. And, on the other hand, it is not that you do not love Lionel. No, Elsie; it is simply because Magnus is entirely the better man of the two-better, incomparably better-physically, mentally, morally, rally, religiously. Magnus is healthful, strong, handsome, energetic, highly intellectual, purely moral, profoundly religious; and he loves you completely. Lionel is broken in constitution, evidently by excess, indolent, selfish, voluptuous, yet irritable, and often violent. His interest in you is a low compound of vanity, cupidity, and sense-it would be false and profane to call it by the sacred name of love. Magnus would make you better and happier, in loving you greatly, in elevating your moral and religious nature, while Lionel would draw you down to the misery and degradation of his own low nature. My child, my one lone child, it is for this consideration that I bar you from wealth, luxury, ease, adulation, and give you to the stern, but kindly discipline of poverty, toil, and privation-with love by your side, to lighten all your labours, and God above you, to reward them. May God love you, my only child! my little Elsie!"
                
               No tear-drop blotted this paper, though her tears had fallen thick, and fast, and blindingly, while she wrote it. She had turned her head away; for no sign of sorrow should wound and weaken Elsie in the letter written to comfort and sustain her. She had turned her head away, and the tears had rained upon her lap. Many times she had arisen from her writing-desk, and fallen, overcome with grief, upon the bed. But it was done. She had succeeded. And there was nothing upon the paper or in the letter to betray the anguish of mind in which it was written. 
               Trying to steer as blamelessly as she could through her labyrinth of duties, Alice would not call one of the servants, all of whom had been expressly forbidden to approach the attic, but took the paper herself, went feebly up the stairs, and supporting herself by the balustrades, she reached the topmost landing, and went to the door of Elsie's room. 
               "You are there, dear mother. I know your footstep so well, though it is weaker than usual. And if I did not know your footsteps, I should know your sigh. Dear mother, do not grieve for me. I am happy-reverently be it spoken-as Peter was in prison." 
               "My darling Elsie, here is something I have written for you. I will push it under the bottom of the door. Take it, darling, read it. Try to compose your mind, and be ready for me very soon. I must go now, dear, for when you begin to read that, you will find that I have a great deal to prepare. Good-bye, for an hour, my dear." 
               Alice then went down, entered her chamber, and rang for Milly; then she went to her drawers and caskets, and got together all the jewelry that she possessed, to the amount of several thousand dollars, and all Elsie's, that amounted to several thousand more, and placed them in one strong casket. Then she searched her purse and pocket-book, and took out all the money she had in possession, a few hundred dollars, and put it in a strong packet. Then she sent Milly into Elsie's vacant chamber, and had all her clothing collected and packed into two large, strong travelling trunks. Next, she sent for a man servant to come and lock and strap them down before her face. Lastly, she received the keys from him, and told him to procure assistance, take the trunks down, put them into a cart, carry them over to Huttontown, and leave them at Mr. Figs's, with a request from her that he would keep them until they were called for. When Alice had done this, she was told that a man wished to see her in the hall. 
               She went out, and found the locksmith with his tools. She bade him follow her, and led the way up into the attic, and to the door of Elsie's prison. She stopped there, and turning to the locksmith, said, 
               "Pick this lock." 
               No sooner said than done. The man put in his instrument, and unlocked it with as much ease as though he had used a key. 
               "There, thank you, sir! you need not open the door. Please to retire now. Milly, my girl, will settle with you down stairs," said Alice, who did not by any means wish to "reveal the secrets of that prison-house." 
               The man bowed, gathered his tools, and went down stairs. 
               Alice opened the door, and was instantly locked in the arms of her daughter. Fearing to lose her courage and presence of mind, perhaps trembling for the strength of her purpose, too, Alice did not venture to indulge these enervating endearments, but hastened to say, 
               "You read and understood my note, my dear Elsie?" 
               "Yes, mother." 
               "You know, then, what is about to take place?" 
               "Yes, dear mother." 
               "Come, then, my child, we must be quick. I expect Magnus here with the license and the minister every minute. Your trunks are already packed and sent off to Huttontown. Where are your diamonds, Elsie? I did not see them among your jewelry. They are the greatest portion of your dower now, my child. Where are they? I wish to put them into a casket that I have packed for you." 
               "Here they are, mother, with the ball-dress in which I came to prison." 
               "Ah, that ball-dress, put that on, it will do as well as another; or, no, you will perhaps have no time to change it afterwards. Come down into my room, and put on your travelling dress at once. I have left it out with your bonnet; come, Elsie." 
               "If you please, ma'am, Doctor Hardcastle and Parson Wilson are down stairs, inquiring for you," said a servant from the foot of the interdicted stairs. 
               "Invite them into the back parlour, and say that I will be with them in a few minutes," said Alice. "Come, Elsie, hasten, dear, and let me dress you." She drew Elsie down. 
               She felt no weakness or dizziness now. She was upheld by a strange excitement. Her cheeks and lips seemed burning, and her eyes blazing as with a hectic fever. 
               Arrived in her own chamber, she quickly assisted Elsie to put on her travelling dress, smoothing her beautiful auburn ringlets, pressed her again fondly to her bosom, tied on her little beaver bonnet, and led her down stairs into the back parlour, where Dr. Hardcastle and the minister sat. 
               Both came forward, bowed, and shook hands. 
               "Oh! for God's sake have it over quickly, Magnus, lest my strength fail!" said Alice, trembling violently. 
               The minister drew the prayer-book from his pocket and opened it. 
               Elsie suddenly lost all vestige of colour, and threw herself again into her mother's arms. Alice pressed her passionately to her heart a moment, and then gave her up to Magnus, who took her hand, passed his arm around her waist to support her, and stood before the minister. 
               In ten more minutes, Magnus Hardcastle had the joy of clapsing his wife to his bosom. 
               "Thank Heaven that it is over. Oh-h-h! Ugh-gh-h! I felt my flesh creeping all the time as if father were peeping over my shoulder," exclaimed Elsie, shuddering, and burying her head under the arm of Magnus. 
               "Yes, thank Heaven, it is over! It was short. A few solemn words of exhortation, a brief prayer, a briefer benediction, and now I possess you, without a doubt, or dispute-entirely-the laws of God and man give you to me alike, and no power under Heaven can tear you from me, my own Elsie! my own wife!" said Magnus, fervently, and almost crushing her in his arms. 
               "Yes, thank Heaven it is over! The doubt, the struggle, and the fear is over. You are safe, Elsie. Your happiness, as far as human foresight can secure it, is insured," said Alice, as she received Elsie once more from the arms of Magnus, and folded her in her own. 
               "But you! Oh, my dear mother! you will be left without your child!" 
               "Never regret me, my own darling. You go without your mother, but you go with your husband, and you are happy. Are you not, my Elsie?" 
               "Oh! yes, yes, mamma." 
               "Well, I am left without my daughter, but I remain with my husband. Think that I am happy also," said Alice, feeling thankful to Providence from the bottom of her heart, that Elsie was "innocent of the knowledge" of General Garnet's tyranny over herself. 
               Yet Elsie half suspected, she knew not what. She looked deeply, searchingly for an instant into her mother's dark, blue eyes, as if to read the secret of the deep sorrow in them. 
               But Alice dropped her long lashes, and averted her head. 
               Then Elsie took her hand, and bending round to look into her troubled face, said, slowly, earnestly, tearfully, 
               "You love my father dearly, very dearly; don't you, mamma? Say, don't you, mamma? Oh! don't you, mamma?" 
               "Yes, Elsie, I love him," said Alice, in a very low voice, turning again to her daughter. 
               "Oh, mamma, you love him as well as I love Magnus! Don't you, mamma? Don't you? You love him better than you love me, and you will be very happy with him even when I am gone? Say, mamma! Oh! tell me before I go." 
               For an answer, Alice stooped and kissed her daughter on the forehead. 
               "But oh! tell me before I go! Tell me, that you love my father better than you love me, and that you will be very happy with him when I am gone," said Elsie, growing more anxious for an answer every instant. 
               Alice turned very pale. 
               And Magnus, who saw that she was fast losing her self-control, came to her relief, by saying, as he approached, took her hand, and drew her off, 
               "I have a word to say to you, if you please, Mrs. Garnet." 
               They went to a window, leaving Elsie near the parson. 
               "Mrs. Garnet! Cousin Alice! Dearest friend! I have a proposal to make to you that must surprise and may shock and offend you. But nevertheless, I make it. Listen to me, Alice. I know too well what you have risked for us, and what you have incurred at the hands of your husband this day! Alice! I fear-I tremble at the thought of leaving you here alone, and exposed to his terrible wrath. You-" 
               But Alice raised her hand and gently arrested his speech. 
               "Magnus, forgive me for reminding you that you should not talk to me in that way. General Garnet's displeasure, as far as I am implicated, will perhaps be just. You and Elsie were right. Your faith was pledged with his consent. You were right in redeeming your mutual pledge. But I, perhaps, was wrong in assisting you in it. I do not clearly know. Oh, Magnus! for many years my ideas of right and wrong have been very much confused. For many years I have lost sight of the exact line that divides good and evil. Oh! Magnus, when the eyes are dimmed with tears, the sight is not very clear-and when the soul is drowned in grief, Magnus, the moral vision may be very much obscured! But this I know-that General Garnet's anger-just or unjust, moderate or violent-I must meet, and meet alone. By all means alone! The dignity of both is concerned in that." 
               "Alice, you must not! Hear me! Listen to me! Do not turn away with that air of gentle self-respect, and wave me off! Don't I know that your heart is breaking this moment-this moment, that your child is leaving you, and you are left desolate and exposed to danger! Desolate, wretched, in peril, though you would have her to believe otherwise? Oh, Alice! you may deceive the child of your bosom, but you will not deceive the boy who sat at your feet and loved you, and studies the mystery of the sorrow on your brow when you came home a bride, and everybody called you happy. I was not deceived then, I have not been deceived since. Oh, Alice! my love for Elsie, my love for you, my relation towards both, give me the right to feel, the right to speak and advise. Hear me: You must not remain here to meet the anger of your husband. Your life-your life will be endangered. Nay! do not lift your hand to stop my speech; hear my plan, hear me out-I will be very brief. Listen! You love Elsie and me. Go with us when we leave here. Go with us to our backwoods home. Our home will be humble, but full of peace and love, and the repose you so much need. We shall be poor, but you shall not feel it. Respectful and loving hands will wait on you all day long. You will be happy with us. Remain with us till the storm blows over. There need be-there would be-no exposure, no gossip, no scandal. To the neighbours who knew of our betrothal, our marriage and departure will seem perfectly natural, only rather unsocial because we did not give a wedding. And I can answer for the discretion and fidelity of Wilson. Your accompanying us, for a visit, will seem nothing unusual. General Garnet, if I mistake not, is too much a man of the world not to keep his own secret, and too much of a despot not to enforce silence upon his people, in regard to this matter. General Garnet will be very anxious to get you back before your visit is prolonged to a suspicious extent. And then, Alice, while you are safe with us, you can make your own conditions with him for your return. You can secure for yourself-" 
               "STOP! Magnus, I did not wish to mar the harmony of this sad hour by one dissonant word or thought or feeling. But let me hear no more of this. Not one breath more, dearest Magnus. What! I leave my home! leave my husband, and remain away to make conditions with him!-I, who unconditionally pledged myself to him 'for better or worse'-I, who vowed love, honour, and obedience to him 'until death'! No, Magnus. That marriage vow, in all its details, is not to be tampered with. It is not a question of happiness, or of peace, or of expediency, or of repose, or of affection, but simply of DUTY. No, Magnus. When I hastened to bestow my daughter upon you, it was because I believed you to be one towards whom it would be a happiness as well as duty, to keep sacred, in all its minuti, that marriage vow." 
               "Alice! dearest Alice! your heart is very mournful, and, forgive me for saying it-very morbid." 
               "Is it? Call Elsie, then. Her feelings are all singularly healthful. Call her, and in her presence just invite me to go with you, simply to go with you-that will be the mildest form of your proposal, and see what Elsie will say. Come, do so." 
               Magnus turned with a smile, and beckoned Elsie to approach. Elsie came, with her bright face beaming with interest and inquiry. 
               "Elsie, my love," said Magnus, "I have been trying to persuade your mother to accompany us to our new home, and remain there for a few weeks." 
               "And leave father so suddenly, when I am leaving him, too! Oh, don't press her to do any such thing, dear Magnus. Oh, don't think of leaving father just now, dearest mother," said Elsie, earnestly; then throwing herself in her mother's arms, whispered, anxiously, "Mother, don't you love father?-oh, mother, tell me, before I go, that you love father." 
               "Yes, Elsie, I do love him. No, Magnus, I cannot leave him. I have helped to bereave him of his child for a season,-I cannot leave him." 
               "But, oh, Alice!" said Magnus, drawing her apart, "think again, think what you will meet. How can you brave his anger?' 
               "I shall not brave it, Magnus. It may be just, coming from him. At least I must bear it-patiently too." 
               Just then the door was burst open by a servant, who exclaimed, in affright, 
               "Madam!-Mistress!-Doctor!-Miss Elsie! Marster is a riding down the road, post haste, to the house!" 
               "Oh, my God! there is not a moment to spare. Good-bye, my beloved child. God bless you!" said Alice, straining her daughter to her bosom. 
               "Oh, mother! don't you love father dearly? Tell me once more." 
               "Yes, yes, Elsie." 
               "Oh, mother, if you love him so dearly, get my pardon from him. Tell him how I grieve to be under the necessity of offending him. Get my pardon for me, beloved mother." 
               "I will do my very best. God bless you, my darling child! Good-bye! Oh, Magnus, be good to her, be merciful, be loving, be tender. Oh, Magnus, I have torn the heart from my bosom, and given it to you. Be good to her." 
               "May God deal by my soul as I deal by her heart!" said Magnus, folding his mother-in-law in a fervent embrace. 
               Then they hurried out, hastened into the carriage, the blinds were let down, the doors closed, the whip cracked, and the vehicle rolled away. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               "THE HEART OVERTASKED." 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Oh, break, break, heart! poor bankrupt, break at once! 
                           To prison, soul! Ne'er hope for liberty! 
                        
                      
                     -SHAKSPEARE. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        
                           Oh! do whate'er thou wilt! I will be silent.
                      
                     JOANNA BAILLIE. 
                   
                
               THERE comes a time in the life of every one, perhaps, when all that the soul most ardently desired, most eagerly pursued, is no longer coveted; when not joy, not success, not fame, nor wealth, nor rank, nor power, not even love, friendship, or sympathy, is longed for, but only-rest; to get away from the terrible struggle of life, from the glare of the world, to find some far-off, quiet spot, cool, and calm, and dark, where to lie down and-rest; when the heart and brain, soul and spirit, overtasked and very weary, would willingly lay down their arms, and capitulate to Destiny, giving up the future, with all its wealth of hopes and possibilities, for rest-only rest-the rest even of the quiet grave. So felt Alice, as she turned from the last glimpse of the vanishing carriage, and entered her desolate dwelling. Very willingly would she have gone to her darkened chamber, and lain down with her sorrow there, but she felt no such interval of repose, no such luxury of grief was permitted her; feeble and weary as she was, she must turn and meet General Garnet in his roused wrath. She dropped exhausted upon one of the settees in the hall, and waited for him there. 
               Oh! in such an hour, when Hope and Faith have left us wounded, bruised, and fainting, on the battle-field of life, we need indeed an angel to come and strengthen us, and lift us again to recommence the struggle that can end victoriously only at the gates of Heaven. 
               And angels do come and strengthen us, in many a guise, unrecognised perhaps, but they do come. 
               It was in breathing these loving words of Jesus into her spirit, that the angel visited Alice in her dark hour-"Come unto Me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you-rest." And the life of love and faith was once more breathed into her soul, and she, who had sunk down there pale, exhausted, despairing, after a little while lifted up her face, serenely radiant with faith. 
               She heard an advancing step. She looked around. 
               Milly stood at her side. 
               "Where is your master? did he enter by the back gate? is he at the stables?" she inquired. 
               "Miss Alice, no, ma'am; he didn't come home at all. He didn't even meet the carriage. He turned off 'fore he got to the porter's lodge, and rode hard as he could down the path as leads down the Hollow. I 'spects how he had some 'litical business long o' Mr. Hard'stle." 
               "Oh! thank Heaven!" said Alice, with a long-drawn sigh of relief, and rising, she hurried off to her own chamber. Not to sit down in faithless despair, but to write a letter to General Garnet, softly and meekly breaking to him the news of their daughter's marriage, so that the first shock of astonishment and rage should be over before he should come home, and she should have to meet him. She wrote this letter. It contained all that she had said in her letter to Elsie, and much more; besides, a meek, appealing spirit pervaded it, that few hearts could have resisted. She despatched it by a servant to General Garnet, at Hemlock Hollow. Then she lay down and tried to sleep. 
               She was disturbed by the entrance of a servant bearing a letter. 
               She raised up and took it. It was for General Garnet, and bore the post-mark of Huttontown. She regarded it attentively for an instant, for it was written in a coarse, school-boy-like hand. 
               Then she placed it on the dressing-table, and, dismissing the servant, lay down and closed her eyes again, with an effort to sleep. She could not do so for a long time. Emotion was busy in her heart, and thought in her brain. One, two, three hours passed; and then she prayed, prayed for the promised-rest, and praying, fell asleep. 
               She did not know how long she had slept, when, waking, she perceived General Garnet in the room. 
               He was sitting in the large arm-chair, near the bed, and his attention riveted upon a letter that he was reading. Alice glanced at the dressing-table. The letter she had placed there was gone. Yes, it was that letter which he was reading with such fixed interest. 
               Alice lay quietly, yet anxiously watching him, until he finished reading, folded up the letter, and put it in his pocket. His attitude was one of deep, even intense thought. In the crimson twilight of that closely-curtained chamber, she could not see the expression of his face. It was evident, she thought, that he had not seen her in the shadowy recess where her sofa stood. 
               After thus watching a moment, breathing a prayer for mercy, she slowly arose, slowly crossed the room, sank upon the cushion near his feet, took his hand, and looked up pleadingly into his face. 
               Alice was still a very beautiful woman, as I have told you, and never was a more beautiful picture than that kneeling figure, with the bright flowing hair, flushed cheek, and upturned, pleading gaze with which she sought silently to deprecate the anger of her husband. She sought to read her fate in his countenance; but that high and haughty face was lifted and averted, and its features were stern, and calm, and impassible. Then she found words to speak, and inquired, softly, 
               "You received my letter, General Garnet?" 
               "Yes, madam, I received your letter," he answered, in a hard, cold tone of voice. 
               "Then you know what else I should tell you here at your feet." 
               "I know that my daughter has eloped, and that my wife helped her off," he replied, in the same dry tone, and with his head still averted. 
               Alice could not see that his lips were bloodless and compressed, and his eyes burning with a fearful, lurid glare. His very quietude, hard, and dry, and constrained, as it was, deceived her. She took his hand again and pressed it to her lips, and held it to her bosom, murmuring softly, 
               "Let us forgive each other! Oh! my husband, let us forgive each other! For many wrongs there is positively no other remedy in the wide universe but simple forgiveness-simple, magnanimous, sublime forgiveness. 'It is impossible but that offences will come,' said the most merciful of all beings. It is impossible, says the experience of life, it is impossible, but that disappointments, sorrows, pains, partings will come. They are the conditions of our existence. We cannot escape them. Let us lessen their bitterness as much as we may. It is impossible but that troubles will come, but the vital question is, whether we shall turn them to good or evil account-whether we shall live to any good end or not. Oh, my husband! make friends with me! We have only each other in the wide world upon whom to depend for our life's comfort and happiness. Make friends with me!" 
               She paused, covering his hand with fond caresses, pressing it to her lips, laying it against her cheek, holding it to her throbbing heart. He drew his hand from her gentle clasp, and folded his arms. 
               Alice sank back, sobbing-sobbing, as though her heart would burst-then suddenly she clasped his knees, exclaiming wildly: "Can we hate each other-you and I who have lived so many years together? Can we hate each other-you and I who love our only child, our dear Elsie, so much? Make friends with me! Let us understand each other! Let us be candid with each other! Let us forbear each other! I know that you deeply regret the failure of your favourite plan to unite these estates. I know it; I am sorry for it; sorry that I have been constrained to have a hand in it. But, oh! General Garnet, I, too, you know, was once-long years ago-bitterly disappointed! terribly disappointed! But it is all over now; it has all been over many years ago! And this is what I have often wanted to tell you, when I saw, by the cold, dark shadow on your brow, that you thought yourself unloved. But I never could approach you near enough to tell you-to tell you that if you would look into my heart, you would see it filled with the love of God, of my husband, and my child. Oh, Aaron! let us forget all that estranged us in the dreary past, and see if we cannot live a better and happier life in the future! At least we can be kind, candid, forbearing with each other. Think how long we may have to travel the rough road of mortal life side by side! We are not old-you and I, Aaron! You are not forty-five, and I am much younger. People healthful as we are, usually live to the age of eighty and beyond it. Think how many years we may have to live together! Shall we, through all these years, be unloving, cold, estranged, suspicious, uncharitable each to the other? Think how many years of our life we have already wasted in coolness, strangeness, misunderstandings! Think how many yet remain! Shall we not live the rest in mutual forbearance, candour, benevolence? Make friends with me! Let us comprehend each other! Dear Aaron, I have opened my heart to you: give me your confidence!" She ceased, half turned, to gaze up in his face-his head was quite averted-had he relented? She thought so. She suddenly, impulsively arose, threw her arms around his neck and bent her lips to kiss him, repeating softly-"Dearest Aaron, make friends with me! Give me your confidence!" 
               He sprang up, and with one dash of his strong arm threw her from him; exclaiming- 
               "Off, traitress! Off, serpent! Viper!" 
               She tottered and fell among the cushions of a low lounge, exhausted, pale, and shuddering. 
               He gazed at her with flashing eyes and darkening brow, and white and writhen lips; and the long restrained passion broke out in a torrent of invective. Shaking his clenched fist at her, he exclaimed, 
               "How dare you talk to me of confidence, traitress that you are! How durst you even approach me! serpent! viper! after your black treachery! What do you mean by braving me? Are you enamoured of a broken head? Or do you think your own too hard to be broken? At what do you value your life, pray? What hinders me now from strangling you? Why didn't you fly with your hopeful daughter? Don't you expect me to hurl you out of doors after her? How durst you cross my path after your treachery? Viper! answer me, I say!" he vociferated, striding towards the lounge, grasping her shoulder, and jerking her to her feet before him-"ANSWER! How dared you face me after your black treachery?" 
               "It was no treachery," answered Alice, pale and trembling, yet with a certain, gentle dignity in her words and tone; "It was no treachery; I broke no promise; I betrayed no trust; I am incapable of doing either." 
               "SILENCE, TRAITRESS!" he thundered, shaking her furiously; "I do not ask you for any impudent falsehood; I will not, by Heaven, permit you to tell me one! I ask you how you dared to meet me here?" 
               "Oh-h-h!" sighed Alice, suddenly sinking at his feet, "It was to return to my alleglance; at whatever personal risk, to yield myself to you; to abide henceforth by my duties. And oh, General Garnet, do not misunderstand me! If I have humbled myself before you-vainly, perhaps, it is not from so base a motive as fear! Oh, I have outlived and outsuffered the fear of pain-the fear of death-the fear of anything that might befall me! If I am at your feet-if I have placed myself unconditionally in your hands, it is for the sake of the holiest principles, the most sacred duties! General Garnet, you believe me; I see that you do! General Garnet, listen to me farther: this is positively the first time in our married life of seventeen years, that I ever opposed you." 
               "The first time that you ever successfully opposed me, madam; and by Heaven, you have made a signal beginning!" commented General Garnet, no longer speaking in a furious voice, but in the dry, hard, stern tone, and fixed, inflexible brow with which he had, in the beginning of their interview, heard and replied to her gentle words. The burst of violent passion had passed sway and left him-the hard, scornful, sarcastic-yet cool, calculating, dissembling, most dangerous man that he was before. 
               Alice gazed up at his face, seeking to read the changed expression there; but it passed her skill, and she murmured, slowly, 
               "Perhaps I was wrong; I know that under other circumstances it would have been very wrong; yet I dare not say that I regret what I did, for under the same circumstances, I should do it again. Not to obtain your forgiveness would I deceive you, though to obtain it would make me comparatively happy; but I deeply regret that anything I had a hand in should give you pain: And I say, do as you please, I shall not complain, I cannot. From the one revolt of my whole life, I return to a full and unconditional allegiance; there is nothing farther to disturb it; nothing to draw me aside. My love for my child only did it; that cannot move me again." 
               "Ha! can it not?" he asked, scornfully. 
               "No! no, indeed it cannot!" 
               "Never?" 
               "Never! How can my love for Elsie ever again draw me aside from you? Elsie is married and gone; now I have only you; my duty is undivided-and oh! if you would let me, I would try to make you so happy!" 
               "Would you?" he asked, doubtfully, scornfully. 
               "Yes, I would," she said, suddenly rising, leaning her hand upon his arm, and her head upon his shoulder, with the confidence of perfect love and faith. "Oh, Aaron, you have not been yourself for a few days past. Yet I do not love you the less on that account; indeed I do not. Oh, Aaron, I can excuse your violence more than you can excuse yourself, I know; for I have been used to it in others. My father was violent, sometimes. And I know that anger is a brief intoxication-'a short madness' in which people do and say what they never intended. Come, you are not angry now; you are smiling; and I-I can only repeat what I said in the beginning, 'Let us forgive each other, and live better and happier all our future lives.' That is right-put your arm around me, dear Aaron, for I am very weak." 
               It was scarcely in human nature, or in devil nature, to resist the charm of her winning beauty, gentleness, and meekness. General Garnet pressed a passionate kiss upon her lips, and clasped her to his heart. It was the first kiss of many, many years; and Alice, trembling, happy, with her blushing face hidden on his bosom, saw not the "laughing devil in his eye." 
               "Oh, Aaron, this is generous-this is magnanimous. Oh, Aaron, if you knew how the simple act of forgiveness has power to bind the human heart! I know it by the way it draws my heart to yours," said Alice, with enthusiasm. 
               But another and a more passionate kiss sealed her lips for a time. 
               At last she said- 
               "My friend, how has it been with you this long, long time? I mean how has it been with your heart and soul, your inner life? Have you been happy-have you had any great life purpose? Oh, Aaron, often, when I have watched you in your daily life, as you walked, or rode, or drove; as you sat at table, or at your writing-desk, or settled business with your overseer, or agents; or jested or told anecdotes among your friends; when you have seemed to live lightly on the outside of things, I have longed to ask you, 'How is it with you-is this reality-and is this all of your life-and are you contented with it-are you happy?' And when I have seen you sit, or stand, or walk apart, silent, moody, abstracted, retired into yourself, I have longed to knock at your heart's door, to be let in, too-to be let into your confidence, and to give you my sympathy, but I dared never to do so. It has taken the grief and passion of this hour to enable me to do so now. But this shall never be so again-shall it? We shall never be such strangers to each other again? Come, tell me now-how is it with you-are you happy?" 
               "Quite happy, just this hour, Alice." 
                
               "And do you truly love me-a little? Oh, love me-only love me!" 
               "Love you!-that is not so difficult, Alice. You are still a very lovely woman." 
               "Will you let me deliver Elsie's last message to you?" 
               He quickly averted his face to hide the dark cloud that overswept it, while he answered, 
               "I will hear it." 
               "Elsie's parting words to me were, 'Oh, mother, you love my father very dearly, do you not?' I answered, 'Yes.' She replied, 'Oh, if you love him, mother, win my pardon from him!' Aaron, look on me. Father, forgive your child, for loving her husband as much as her mother loves thee." 
               "Alice," he said, drawing her again to his bosom and kissing her, "this seals your full pardon; be content; for the rest, give me time." 
               "Oh, if I could persuade you to forgive poor Elsie-who only needs her father's pardon and blessing to be perfectly happy in her humble state." 
               "Alice, if Elsie were before me, as you are, in all your beauty, perhaps I could not choose but be reconciled with her as with you, my lovely Alice." 
               Alice was so unused to praise from him, that these words and caresses were beginning to embarrass her. Blushing like a very girl, she withdrew herself from his arms, and sat down. Then, as fearing to have offended, she said, 
               "Do not think me ungrateful. Test my sincerity in any way you please." 
               "In any way, Alice?" he asked, significantly. 
               "Yes. Try me-test me." 
               "Pause-think-in any way?" 
               "In anything and everything will I obey you, that does not transgress the laws of God, I mean, of course." 
               "Ah, that to begin with, is one very broad and comprehensive exception-especially if you design to give it a very liberal and latitudinarian interpretation. And it implies, besides, a suspicion and a guard against my giving you any command which, to obey, would be to transgress the laws of God. Do you really suppose that I am capable of doing such a thing, Alice?" 
               "No-oh, no. Only you pressed me for an exception, you know, and I gave you the only one I thought of." 
                
               "I am satisfied with your exception, Alice. But is that really the only exception to your vow of compliance?" 
               "Yes, indeed, the only one." 
               "Reflect-you may find another." 
               "No, indeed, no." 
               "No?-what is the dearest wish of your heart, now, Alice?" 
               "For peace-for perfect family peace and perfect Christian love." 
               "Thanks, Alice. 'Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian.' But is there no secret, darling thought that hovers around Magnus and Elsie?" 
               Alice suddenly turned very pale. Her hands flew up pleadingly, and involuntarily she cried, in a voice of anguish- 
               "Oh, for the loving Saviour's sake, do not require me to renounce Elsie!" 
               "If I did, would you do so, Alice?" 
               She was silent, with her head bowed upon her clasped hands. 
               He looked at her and smiled sardonically, saying, 
               "I knew it-another exception! How many would follow this, I wonder? But be easy, Alice. I do not require you to renounce your daughter. Far be that from me. Hold her as closely to your heart as you wish. Nothing but nervousness could have put that thought into your head. Have I not said that even I might be brought to forgive Elsie? Pshaw, dear Alice, I only wished to prove to you how really vain were all your promises." 
               "No, they are not!" exclaimed Alice, earnestly, energetically "You have reconciled yourself to me when I least hoped and expected it, and I will do anything to prove how glad I am-anything except renounce Elsie, or fail in my higher duty to Heaven. Oh, do not close your half-opened heart to me again. Try me." 
               "Good! I will put your sincerity to one more test. And woe to both if that third test should prove you faithless." 
               "It shall not-it shall not!" said Alice, solemnly. "All our future confidence and peace depends on it, and it shall not fail, so help me Heaven. What is it?" 
               "You shall soon see, Alice," replied General Garnet, rising, and preparing to leave the room. "Where are they now?-I mean Dr. Hardcastle and his wife." 
               "I believe they are at the hotel at Huttontown, where they expect to remain for a few days-if you do not bring them back here. Oh, General Garnet, if you would pardon them-if you would bring them back here to live with us-how happy we should all be-oh, how happy we should all be the long future years! No more partings-no more tears. Our children and grandchildren would be with us all through life. Magnus could practise his profession, and be of such inestimable value besides, in your political plans, and such company for you at home. And Elsie would be such a comfort to me. We should all be so happy! Come, bring them back with you. Ah, do. Let us have them with us, all reconciled, around the table to-night-and it will be the happiest family gathering that ever was held. Oh, I see you smile, and I know you will bring them back-will you not?" said Alice, suddenly seizing his hand, and gazing eloquently, beseechingly into his face. 
               "We shall see, Alice-I will tell you more about that when I return," he said, with one of his charming smiles, and shaking her hand cheerfully, opened the door and went out. 
               "Oh, yes-I do believe he will bring them back with him. Ah, no father can harden his heart against his child. Yes, yes, I am sure he will bring them back!" she repeated, seeking to still the anxiety that was torturing her breast. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               THE WIFE'S TRUST. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "I know not, I ask not if guilt's in that heart, 
                           But I know that I love thee, whatever thou art." 
                        
                      
                     MOORE. 
                   
                
               THE sun was going down, when a servant entered the chamber, and announced that Judge Wylie was below stairs, and begged to see Mrs. Garnet alone upon important business. 
               Telling the man to show Judge Wylie into the library, Alice threw a shawl around her, and, full of vague and painful misgivings, descended the stairs. 
               What could be the important business upon which Judge Wylie came? What business, trifling or important, could he have with her? Had any accident happened to Elsie? The thought gripped her heart like a vice. Had anything happened to Magnus or General Garnet? 
               Trembling and pale, and almost overwhelmed by the trials of the day, she opened the library door, and tottered in. 
               Judge Wylie was standing there awaiting her. Judge Jacky's usually jubilant face was now overcast and troubled as he advanced to meet Alice, took her hand, led her to a settee, and seated himself beside her. He pressed her hand with paternal kindness, and said, gravely and gently, 
               "My dear Mrs. Garnet, you will pardon the liberty about to be taken by your oldest friend." 
               "For Heaven's sake-what has-"happened, she was about to ask, but the words died on her pale lips. 
               "Do not be alarmed, my dear Mrs. Garnet. Nothing has occurred since the marriage-you perceive that I know all about it. But it is to warn you-to put you upon your guard against something about to occur, that I come to you this evening." 
               "For God's sake-what? what?" 
               "Be easy. Nothing that you have not in your full power to avert, by a little firmness." 
                
               "For Heaven's sake explain yourself, Judge Wylie." 
               "You know something, I presume, of the Maryland laws of property, of inheritance, and of marriage?" 
               "No-no-I know nothing about it." 
               "At least you know that when a girl marries, all the personal property she may be possessed of at the time of her marriage, or may afterwards inherit, becomes the property of her husband?" 
               "Yes, of course I know that." 
               "Yes-but-listen. All the LANDED property she possesses at the time of her marriage, or afterwards inherits, is hers-hers alone. Her husband can neither alienate it during his life, or will it at his death. He cannot mortgage it, nor assign it-nor can it be taken for his debts. It is hers, and hers alone. She alone has the disposal of it." 
               "Yes. Well?" 
               "-Therefore!-All the personal property you became possessed of at the death of your father, is the property of General Aaron Garnet." 
               "Certainly. Who disputes it? Well?" 
               "But! And now listen! All the LANDED property, consisting of six thousand acres of the best land on the Western Shore, which you inherited from your father, is yours, your own, and at your death it is your daughter's, if she survive you, and unless you choose to will it to some one else. General Garnet can make no disposition of it either during your life or at your death." 
               "It seems to me, Judge Wylie, that this conversation is a very singular one," said Alice, coldly. 
               "Not so singular or so impertinent-that is what you mean-as it appears to be. Bear with me. Hear me out. I speak for your good, and your child's good. I have before me now the face of your sainted mother. I loved her in my youth, Alice; but that is neither here nor there-nor anywhere else, as Useless says. Well! This is what I had to say. Your daughter Elsie has, by her marriage, grievously offended her father. He may or may not pardon her. He may discard her. Do not put it in his power to disinherit her." 
               Alice turned very pale. 
               "Why do you say that to me?" she asked, falteringly. 
               "Because," he answered, "it is said that women can always be kissed or kicked out of any right of property they may
                   happen to possess. Now don't you, my little Alice, be kissed out of your six thousand acres of finely cultivated, and heavily timbered, well watered land, with all its land and water privileges. The best plantation within the bounds of old Maryland. Don't you be kissed out of it, little Alice, for it makes you independent and of great importance. Don't you be kissed out of it, Alice, for you can leave it to your beloved daughter, who will need it. Don't you be kissed out of it, Alice, my child; and as for the other alternative, my courteous friend, General Garnet, is far too much of a gentleman to resort to it, either literally or metaphorically." 
               "Judge Wylie! Why do you talk to me in this way? You are my oldest friend-you have a certain privilege. I beseech you, forbear to abuse it," said Alice, divided between mortification and anxiety. The latter at last prevailed, and she asked: "Why did you open up this subject just now, Judge Wylie? You came to tell me why, I suppose. Tell me now at once." 
               "Well, then, only this, Alice. That about an hour ago, I happened in at Squire Fox's office, where General Garnet was superintending the drawing up of a deed. An involuntary-a providential-glance, now I think it was, over the clerk's shoulder, revealed to me the fact that he was drawing up a deed of assignment, by which you were to convey all your right, title, and interest in the landed property of Mount Calm, to General Aaron Garnet. General Garnet then turned to me, and requested me to meet him here to-night, to witness your signature. I asked, with surprise, if you had consented to give it. He looked offended, and expressed astonishment at my question. By which I knew that he intended to come upon you by a coup de main, and I came off here to put you on your guard." 
               "Oh! is that all?" asked Alice, with a sigh of great relief. "Well, Judge Wylie, if any one else in the wide world had talked to me as you have been talking for the last ten minutes, I should have said that they took a most unwarrantable and most offensive liberty in presuming to interfere in a matter that concerns only General Garnet and myself. Of you, my old friend, I only say that your doubts and fears are totally groundless. General Garnet, perhaps, wishes to test the strength of my confidence in him, or he may have some other and still better reason for what he is about to do. At all events, when he lays that deed before me for signature, most willingly, most cheerfully will I prove my love and respect, and confidence in him, by signing it at once. Judge Wylie, I am not well this evening. The events of the day have shaken me very much. Judge Wylie, with many thanks for your kind intentions, permit me to wish you good-evening!' And Alice held out her hand. 
               Judge Wylie arose, saying- 
               "Ah! I knew it! I might have known it before I came. She will not be saved when she might be. She is like all her sex: none of them ever will be saved, unless it's those who ain't worth saving! Well, good-evening, Mrs. Garnet! God be with you! It is said that children and-pardon me!-fools-enjoy the privilege of an especial Providence. May such a protection be yours! Good-evening, madam." 
               And pressing her hand, he took his hat and stick, and was about to leave the room, when the front door was heard to open, steps to hurry up the hall, and the library door was thrown open, and General Garnet entered, ushering in a magistrate and a lawyer, who held some documents, tied with red tape, in his hands. 
               "Ah, Judge Wylie! I am glad to find you already here. Gentlemen, be seated. Alice, my love, I preferred to bring these gentlemen here, for the purpose of transacting a little law business in which you are concerned, rather than risk your health by taking you out in this severe weather. Judge Wylie, resume your seat. Gentlemen, pray be seated. Alice, my dear, come hither; I had expected to find the library empty, and you in your chamber, where I left you. I wish to have a word with you apart." And putting one arm affectionately over the shoulder of Alice, he took her hand, and led her away to a distant part of the room, where, with his most angelic smile, he said-"Alice, I am the nominal master of Mount Calm only! but, Alice, I am at this moment a poor man-prove your affection and confidence now, as your heart dictates!" 
               "I know what you mean, Aaron. Come! I am ready to do so-at once. But, oh! Aaron, have you seen Elsie?" 
               "I will tell you all about that after this little business is over, dear Alice! Come." 
               "Immediately after?" 
               "Yes, instantly, and it will take but a moment." 
               "Come, then, let us have it over, quickly, that I may the sooner hear of Elsie. But, oh! just assure me of this-that you have forgiven her! I know by your smile that you have-but, oh! I long to hear you say so!" 
               "Can you doubt me, Alice? Come! let us have this affair over, and then you shall know all about it." 
               And taking her hand, he led her up the room. 
               The magistrate was seated behind a table; before him lay a copy of the Holy Scriptures, pen, ink, and paper, and certain documents, among which was the deed of assignment in question. By the side of the table stood Judge Jacky and the lawyer, as witnesses. 
               General Garnet led Alice up in front of it, and immediately before the magistrate. 
               Squire Fox took up the deed of assignment, and read it aloud. Then he administered the oath to Alice, and put the usual questions, as to whether she gave that deed of her own free will, without compulsion, or undue persuasion from her husband? 
               "Without being kissed or kicked out of it?" whispered Judge Jacky. 
               Having received satisfactory answers to all questions, the magistrate laid the deed open before Alice, for her signature. General Garnet dipped a pen in ink and handed it to her. Alice received it, smilingly, and in a clear, unfaltering hand, wrote her name at the bottom of that deed, that conferred upon her husband immense wealth, and left herself penniless. 
               The lawyer affixed his signature, as witness. Judge Wylie, with a deep groan, wrote his name. The squire performed his part, and the business was complete. 
               Alice looked up into General Garnet's face, with an expression that said-"Now have you proved me sufficiently? Now will you confide in me? Will you love me?" 
               General Garnet stooped down and whispered to her- 
               "Retire immediately to your chamber, Alice!" 
               "But-Elsie!- tell me of her?" 
               "Retire to your chamber, instantly, Mrs. Garnet!-and await me there! I must offer these gentlemen something to drink, and dismiss them; immediately after which, I will come to you, and tell you all that I have done, and all that I intend to do!" said General Garnet, in a tone of authority and impatience that would brook no opposition or delay. 
               And Alice, curtsying slightly to the party, withdrew. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               LIFE'S STORM AND SOUL'S SHELTER. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Go, when the hunter's hand hath wrung 
                           From forest cave her shrieking young, 
                           And calm the lonely lioness- 
                           But chide not-mock not my distress. 
                        
                      
                     -BYRON. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           And I smiled to think God's greatness flowed around-our incompletenesss- 
                           Round our restlessness-his rest. 
                        
                      
                     -MRS. BROWNING. 
                   
                
               ALICE retired to her chamber, and waited restlessly. An hour passed, and still she heard no sound of departing guests. It was quite dark, and she rang the bell. 
               Milly entered with lights. 
               "Tea is ready to go on the table, Miss Ally, shall we put it up?" 
               "Where is your master? what is he doing?" 
               "He is in the library, ma'am, with the gentlemen. They don't seem to have any notion of going home. General Garnet-he sent for more wine, and ordered devilled turkey and scolloped crabs-two other gentlemen have come in, and they are all very high upon pullyticks." 
               Alice heard and sighed deeply. 
               "So I thought, Miss Ally, how you'd like your cup of tea, anyhow. Shall I set the table as usual? Though it will be very lonesome for you to sit at the table all alone, now that Miss Elsie is gone, and marster's engaged. Or else shall I bring you a cup of tea up here, with any thing else you would like? There is some cold fowl in the pantry, and some neat's tongue, too; shall I bring it up to you, with a cup of tea?" 
               "No, Milly. Perhaps the General would like supper got for his guests. Come with me; I will go down and see." 
               "God bless your soul, Miss Ally, honey, they's been a stuffing ever since they's been here." 
               "No matter for that, Milly; you know our gentlemen have infinite gastronomic capacities." 
                
               "My Gor A'mighty! Miss Ally; you don't say so. Is it catching?" 
               "What?" 
               "That there complaint our gemmen has got." 
               "Nonsense, Milly! you misunderstood me; I meant to say that they had 'no bottoms to their stomachs'." 
               "My Gor A'mighty! Miss Ally, what a misfortunate state to be in. It's a world's wonder as it don't kill 'em to death!" 
               "Pshaw, Milly! There is nothing the matter with them, except that they never get done eating." 
               "Oh, is that it, Miss Ally? Well, indeed, I don't believe they ever does; especially when they is a talkin' pully-ticks. 'Case, you see, Miss Ally, I done sent 'em in four dozen scollop crabs and six dozen raw open Nanticoke oysters, each one of 'em as big as the palm of my hand, and two devilled turkies, and bless patience if they didn't put all that away in less than an hour, and sent for more." 
               "Well, they will want a hot supper by-and-bye, that is certain. So take the candle, Milly, and go before me. I am going down to the library door to speak to General Garnet." 
               Milly lifted the candlestick, and preceded her mistress down the stairs. 
               When she reached the library door, Alice stepped before her and rapped. 
               General Garnet came to the door and opened it. On seeing his wife: 
               "Well, what do you want now? Didn't I direct you to keep your chamber until I came?" he inquired, sternly. 
               "Yes; and I would have done so, but your visiters are staying longer than you or I supposed. Perhaps they will need supper; shall I order it?" 
               "No! Mind your own business. Don't go beyond your orders. Return to your room and wait me there," he said, and shut the door in her face. 
               Alice sighed, and turned from the door. 
               Milly was indignant. This was the first time she had ever positively witnessed any disrespect shown to her beloved mistress. And Milly boiled with rage. 
               "High! Who he? Mus' think how people 'fraid o' him. My Lor! I only jes' wish how my ole man Tom 'ould turn a darned etarnal fool in his ole days, and talk to me so! that's all! 'High!' I say, 'nigger, better hit somebody, hadn't you? Is you done tuk leave o' your ole woolly head's senses?' 'Deed I would. Look here, Miss Ally, honey! Don't you put up o' that there shortness. Now Miss Elsie's gone, he can't spite you any way. He daren't hit you. 'Case why? 'case the law protects you. Now, Miss Ally, I say, you take my 'vice. You jes' pluck up a sperit and turn on him. And put a 'stonishment on to him. Jes'you step it over him in style. Make him walk chalk. Ses you, 'Now, you behave yourself, or I'll unmask you afore all the world, and let people see how pretty you are underneat of your smiles.' Lor, Miss Ally, if men ain't the easiest spil't and a made fools of, of all the dumb beasts as ever wore shoe leather. There's my ole man Tom. Why, anybody'd think he was the bestest ole nigger as ever said prayers. But Lor! when we first took up 'long o' each other, the cussed infunnally fool thought he was marster; thought how he'd got a nigger of his own. Ugh-umph! I soon took him out o' that there. I wa'nt a goin' to lay down on the ground and let people walk on me. Now he 'haves himself as a man ought to do. 'Twon't do, Miss Ally, 'deed it won't, Miss Ally! to spile men folks. Men folks 'quire to be made to know their places. 'Deed, 'fore my Heavenly Marster, they do, honey." 
               Doubtless Alice would have rebuked this freedom of speech, had she heard one word of it; but she did not. She only knew that Milly was twaddling some monotonous strain of monologue, as she carried the candle before her up stairs. 
               Arrived within her chamber, Alice dismissed her maid, refusing all refreshment, and threw herself, exhausted and anxious, upon her bed. 
               As the hours passed slowly away, sounds of revelry from below stairs began to reach and disturb her. As time wore on towards midnight, these orgies became louder and higher. Vociferous laughter, shouting songs, and thundering cheers mingled in a strange wild discord, and broke startlingly upon the aristocratic repose of that mansion, and the holy quiet of that night. Alice listened in fear and trembling and disgust, for such orgies were unprecedented there. 
               At length, long after midnight, the company broke up in great disorder. Alice listened shudderingly to their noisy leave-taking, as with jocular songs, coarse jests, vociferous cheers and laughter, they departed. Then she heard the closing of doors and windows, and the steps of General Garnet as he moved about the house. Lastly, she heard him coming up the stairs. He entered the chamber. Alice arose to meet him. 
               "Oh! you are waiting up to hear something about Elsie. Well, sit down," said he, putting down the night-lamp, closing the door, and turning to her with a sarcastic smile. 
               Alice had sunk into a chair, faint, sickened by the sight of the demon leer that now he did not even turn to conceal. 
               "Well, now, what questions do you want to put to me? I am quite ready to answer any," he said, dropping himself into a chair before her, crossing his feet, folding his arms, and leaning back. 
               "Elsie, then? have you seen her?" 
               "No." 
               "What, not seen Elsie!" she repeated, with a look of deep disappointment. "Not seen Elsie?" 
               "No," he answered again, looking at her with steady, imperturbable contempt. 
               "But you-you intend to see her?" asked Alice, with a sinking voice. 
               "Never! Never, so help me Heaven! And now listen, minion! fool! It was for the purpose of punishing her and you-of beggaring her and you, that I obtained that deed!" he exclaimed, malice, scorn, taunting triumph writhing around his lips, flashing from his eyes, and lighting up the whole dark face with a lurid demoniac fire. 
               Alice stared at him for an instant with a marble-like immobility of countenance, as if it were impossible for her to comprehend such black treachery. 
               Stretching out his arm, and pointing his finger at her, he laughed aloud. 
               Then the spell of amazement that checked the current of her blood was broken, and slowly from the pallid lips came the words, 
               "Oh, my God! I understand it all now!" 
               "Ha! ha! ha! do you?" 
               "All-all," she continued, without withdrawing her steady gaze-"all, all. I have sold my birth-right and hers, for-a kiss!" 
               "Ha! ha! ha! Well, what do you want to complain of? You got the kiss," he exclaimed, in the most insulting manner. 
               "I have sold her birth-right for a kiss! a serpent's kiss! a Judas kiss!" cried Alice, wildly ringing her hands. 
                
               "Come, Mrs. Garnet, no hard words, if you please. Remember how you hung upon me this morning. You were so affectionate! I was quite flattered; grew 'quite in favour with myself,' and almost with you-only it is d-h impossible to rekindle ashes." 
               "Oh! fiend! fiend! remorseless fiend! I shall go mad! Oh, God! where sleep your thunderbolts?" cried Alice, rising, and walking distractedly up and down the floor. 
               "Come, madam. No more of this. I am tired of it. Resume your seat," exclaimed General Garnet, leaving his scornful, taunting manner, and speaking in the deep, stern tones of haughty command. 
               But Alice heard him not, as she walked wildly up and down the room, crying, 
               "Oh, God! God! where rest your thunderbolts?" 
               "Do you hear me? SIT DOWN, I SAY! or, by Heaven, I will send you in search of the thunderbolts!" 
               But Alice was not to be stopped now. Still wildly walking up and down the floor, distractedly wringing her hands, she was pouring forth the gathered bitterness of many years- 
               "I have borne so much, great God. I have borne so much. Oh, I have been a woman 'of sorrows and acquainted with grief.' And who is it that has made my life, my harmless life, one long pain? You, General Garnet, you. You married me by force, you know you did. In my young girlhood-nay, in my innocent childhood, when life opened to me with such a bright promise of usefulness and happiness with one I loved, with one to whom my faith was plighted, you tore me away from that one, and made his life a useless barren waste, and married me yourself, for your own selfish purposes, and nearly broke my heart and crazed my brain. God knows I have no clear recollection now of the months that followed my marriage. Well! Well! Well! 'Time and the hour beareth away all things,' and as time passed, I learned to love you. Because you were my husband, and the father of my child, and because it was the great necessity of my nature to love, I loved you. God knows, I think there was no other reason. Oh! if Heaven gave me one idea purer and higher than all the rest, it was that of the beauty and holiness of marriage! And though mine was a miserable sacrifice, so great was my need to live in an atmosphere of love and piety, that I tried to make a sort of temple of it. It was a wild ruin. Oh, worse! it was a ridiculous failure! This hour has proved it. Ha! ha! ha! Hark! did I laugh? No, it was not I. I have nothing to laugh at in earnest, and I never laugh in scorn. But there are two spirits in me now, and one mocks at the other." 
               "SIT DOWN! This moment, sit down!" thundered General Garnet, stamping furiously. 
                      
                        "But heedless as the dead was she 
                        Of all around, above, beneath!" 
                     
                   Of all but the stormy outpouring of thought and feeling, from her own overburdened heart and brain- 
               "When you trampled all my-rights and my happiness beneath your feet, when you seized and married me against my will, I excused you, for I said you loved me with a strong passion, and strong passions have their necessities and their rights. When you required me to give up my dearest friends, and lay aside habits of study and elegant amusements, that were a second nature to me, I said that your position gave you a right to dictate to me, and I acquiesced without a murmur. When you took my little child away from me, the only comfort I had left in the world, and sent her across the ocean, to remain at school for many years, I said you were her father, and what you did was doubtless intended for her good, however mistaken the intention might be, and I submitted. Recently, when you have laid violent hands upon my person, and endangered my life, I said it was violence of temper, not malignity of heart, and I resolved, for your sake and mine, to keep our secret, and to bear with it. I excused it-nay, I went farther, and vindicated it. No ill usage, from mere violence of temper, could have affected my happiness. I do not know but that I thought you had a right to strike me if you were angry. Because I was superstitious and fanatical, and because I loved you then. They say that 'Perfect love casteth out fear.' My love, imperfect as it was, cast out fear. When I conscientiously assisted at Elsie's marriage, and remained home here to meet you, I nerved my heart to bear all your fury. I even said it would be just, coming from you. And no matter how much I had suffered at your hands, no matter if you had left me for dead, as you did once before, if I had recovered, I could have gone on cheerfully with my daily duties, as if nothing had happened. Because I could have understood violence, as I said: I could have understood anything that grew out of heat of passion-anything, but this clear-headed, cold-blooded treachery-because I loved you then. Nay! My God! I believe in my soul, I love you yet, and it is that which stings my self-respect to madness. It is that which lays my soul open to the entrance of the scornful, jibing spirit that mocks at my holiest instincts." 
               "SIT DOWN! SIT DOWN! I say," vociferated General Garnet, striding towards her. 
               Suddenly she fell at his feet, and raised her clasped hands, saying, 
               "I am mad! I am mad! Two spirits possess me-a mad and a sane one. It is the mad spirit that impels me to say now-while your serpent-treachery folds its cold, damp coils about my heart, and not so much stings as chills me to death,-to say now, in the face of all reason-while the same spirit keeps before me-to say, only forgive Elsie! only be reconciled with her, and take all the rest; and I will try to forget that I have been deceived and scorned. At least I will never, never harbour the thought, much less give it expression again. Come, forgive your child! You cannot be for ever obdurate to your child! Be reconciled to her, and I will believe that anger and disappointment bereft you of your reason-for a little while-and that it was only during a temporary fit of insanity that you could have done such a thing. And I will honour you again." 
               "Poh! fudge! You are not so mad as to believe the words you are saying," said General Garnet, jerking her up, and flinging her upon the sofa. "There, be quiet; I hate raving-and now listen to what I have to say in regard to Elsie: I will never see her, or speak to her, or receive a letter or a message from her, under any circumstances, whatever, so long as I live. I will never permit you to see her, or speak to her, or hold any communication, by letter or message, with her, under any circumstances that may occur, so long as you live. I will never give her an acre of land, or a cent of money, or an article of food, or raiment, or fuel, to save her from starvation or freezing!" 
               Alice, exhausted, prostrate, gazed at him in horror, as with a darkened and ferocious countenance, and a voice of concentrated hatred, so deep as to be nearly inaudible, he continued, 
                
               "If she were to dare to set foot upon this plantation, I would loosen my blood-hounds upon her!" 
               "Fiend!-you are the only blood-hound that would hurt her. Turn them loose on her, then,-do it! They would crouch at her feet! They would lick her hands-her beautiful hands-that have fed and caressed them all. Or get strange dogs to hunt her with, and even they would grovel before the angel in her eyes. Oh, fool!-you are the only brute on God's creation that would harm her," said Alice, in a low, deep tone. 
               General Garnet continued, as if he had not heard her, 
               "If she were lying, dying, at my gate, I would not suffer one of my negroes to hand her a drink of water, if that drink of water would save her from death!" 
               "Demon!-there is not a man, woman, or child on this plantation that you could hinder, with all your malice and power, from rendering Elsie any service she might require,-unless you imprisoned them, or tied them hand and foot!" said Alice, in a dying voice. 
               Still he continued, without attending to her indignant but faint interruptions. And his face became still more dark and demoniac. 
               "And now comes the very best of the argument, which, like a good orator, I have saved for the very last-I wonder how you will like it! I shall take pleasure in watching the play of your pretty features while I tell you, and dissecting and analyzing the emotions of your heart as you hear! And saying within myself-there is so much regret, and there is so much shame, and there is so much jealousy, and there is so much rage. Listen, then-you have disappointed me in my first plan for uniting two great estates. Before I have done, I will make you regret that,-the estates shall be united yet. You have taught your daughter to disobey me-very well-you have bereft her of her birthright for a caress, to your shame be it remembered,-and I have discarded and disowned her. But, listen: I have ANOTHER DAUGHTER-the child of my love!-ha!-are you pale with jealousy? Listen, farther yet: all the broad lands of Mount Calm that came by you, and should descend to your child, and enrich her, will I bestow upon the child of my love; and her hand will I bestow upon Lionel Hardcastle, who will be glad to accept it, no doubt. Ha! Now die of rage!" he exclaimed, with a ferocious laugh. 
                
               But neither regret, shame, or jealousy, or rage, disfigured that peaceful face, or agitated that composed figure. General Garnet, who glanced at her first in triumph, now gazed in awe. Her eyes were closed, her hands had fallen. Her whole figure expressed perfect repose. She looked as if the Angel of Death had laid his hand upon her head, and said to that storm-tossed life, "Peace-Be still." "And there had fallen a Great Calm." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               DAY AFTER THE WEDDING. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           What is the world to them? 
                           Its pomp, its pleasure, and its nonsense all? 
                           Who in each other clasp whatever fair, 
                           High fancy forms and lavish hearts can wish, 
                           Or in the mind or mind-illumined face; 
                           Truth, goodness, honour, harmony and love, 
                           The richest bounty of indulgent Heaven! 
                        
                      
                     -THOMPSON. 
                   
                
               AT break of day, a large travelling wagon, strongly and compactly built, and neatly roofed with snow-white tent cloth stretched lightly over hoops, and drawn by two stout gray mules, stood before the village hotel at Huttontown. This wagon was closely packed with a small assortment of cabin furniture. All this "household stuff" was perfectly new, clean, neat, and bright, and snugly stowed away in the back and middle part of the wagon. Near the front of the vehicle stood a small, flag-bottomed arm-chair, wedged tightly in between boxes and trunks, so that it could not be jostled by the motion of the wagon. It is needless to say that this was the "travelling carriage" of our bridal pair, or that the little flag-bottomed chair was provided for the especial convenience and comfort of the bride. Early as the hour was, a crowd of village neighbours had collected for the pleasure of seeing the "bride and groom" come out, and the wagon start "for the Western country." Among the assembled villagers was a fine, handsome boy, of ten or twelve years of age, who volunteered to hold the reins until the travellers should come forth. 
               The people had not very long to wait. The front door of the hotel opened, and Doctor Hardcastle, clad in a large, shaggy over-coat and over-hauls, and fox-skin cap and gloves, and looking as great, energetic, and joyous as ever, came out, leading Elsie, wrapped in a full, brown cloth cloak, with her healthful, happy face, blooming and smiling from out the comfortable rolls of a wadded, brown silk hood. 
               Magnus nodded and smiled, as he shook hands hastily right and left, and hurried Elsie towards the wagon. He lifted her in, fixed her comfortably in her chair, wrapped the ample folds of her cloak about her, and tucked it snugly around her feet, with a solicitous care for her, and a total indifference to the eyes of the lookers on, that provoked their merriment into peals of good-humoured laughter, accompanied by exclamations of-"That is right, Doctor. Take good care of her, God bless her! That's right, Doctor. That's the way. Tuck her up warm. Indeed, her chin will freeze, if you don't muffle that comforter closer around her throat." 
               "Oh, hurry! let's escape this!" whispered Elsie, laughing and blushing. 
               "Never mind, dear! Never mind their rough manners. You are too generous and large-hearted to feel anger or contempt at their unrefined method of expressing their sympathy, which is really more sincere and earnest than all the congratulations in elegant phrases that ladies and gentlemen give and receive upon such occasions. Let us have patience with uncultivated Nature, dear Elsie, for we are going to live with her a long time. At least, have any other feeling for humanity rather than contempt, dear Elsie," replied Magnus, as he finished arranging her cloak. 
               "Me! me presume to feel contempt for my rough, honest, kindly neighbours! Oh, Magnus, never! I will prove to you that I do not!" exclaimed Elsie, in a low, hurried voice. 
               Then Magnus sprang into his seat, and took the reins from the hands of the lad. 
               As he gave them up, the boy fixed a long, lingering, wishful look at the wagon and its occupants. 
               "You look as if you had half a mind to accompany us, my boy," said Doctor Hardcastle, as he read the expression of the lad's countenance. 
               "Oh, I have, sir! for I feel I could be useful, almost necessary to you, and beneficial to myself, if I could go, but I have a little girl to take care of at home." 
               "A little girl to take care of? you!
                
               "Yes, sir, my little sister, or rather she is just like my little sister. We live on Hutton Island." 
               "Oh! yes, the two Children of the Isle. How came you over here so early, my boy?" 
               "I came over to bring some maninosies to the tavern, sir, in time for them to be prepared for breakfast. I expect you ate some of them yourself, sir." 
                
               "Yes, and they were very good." 
               "My sister and I gathered them, sir." 
               "Yes. Well, my boy, you look like a fine, independent, enterprising lad. Rely on God and yourself, improve your mind, be honest, industrious, and frugal, and you will make your own way in the world. What is your name?" 
               "Hugh Hutton, sir." 
               "Yes, young Hutton of the Isles, one of the 'Scotch lairds,' as the people used to call them for their pride and-" 
               "Poverty," calmly concluded the boy. 
               "Well, child, they go admirably well together. Hold to your pride as long as you are poor, and cast it away when you become rich. Well, Hugh, I will not forget you, or lose sight of you. Some day I shall come back, and then you may return with me. Good-bye," said Doctor Hardcastle, shaking hands with the boy. 
               Then he arose in his seat, lifted his cap, and waved farewell to the neighbours. Elsie kissed her hand to them several times, blushing brightly as they all waved their hats and handkerchiefs, and amid the cheers and benedictions of the little crowd, the wagon started. 
               "We must make thirty miles to-day, dear Elsie, and reach Deep Dell by nightfall if possible," said Magnus. 
               "Oh, how I wish that fine boy were really with us. How useful he could be to you, and what a man you could make of him!" said she, looking back to where Hugh stood, the last of the crowd, watching the departing wagon. 
               "God has made a man of him already, dear Elsie. What a fine, independent look he has! Yes, I could have wished him to go with us; a very strong sympathy attracts me to that boy. I should be very proud of that boy." 
               "He will be gentle and great like you. He reminds me of what you were at his age, when you used to carry me about the forest in your arms, as joyous as a boy, yet as careful as a woman. I thought of that when he talked about his sister. Magnus, I used to feel as if I should so love to have a sister or to be a sister. There is such a sweet and tender thought in sisterhood-children of the same mother. Just now I thought that boy's voice took a tone of modulated sweetness when he spoke of his sister. Yet his very gentleness must be the playfulness of a lion's cub-there is such fire in his grand eyes, that reminded me of you, too. Oh, Magnus, do you know what I have been thinking of? what great music has been sounding its majestic harmony through my soul this morning, as I journey by your side into the wilderness? Listen- 
                      
                        
                           'Thy spirit, Independence, let me share, 
                        
                           Lord of the lion heart and eagle eye!
                         
                        Thy steps I follow with my bosom bare, 
                        Nor heed the storm that howls along the sky.' 
                     
                   And I feel as if you were that very incarnate spirit of Independence, and I am sure that that boy was the worshipping disciple who was ready to follow you; and as for me, Magnus," she continued, laughing, "there is such a superfluous amount of energy in my little body and soul this morning, that I feel as if I could not only brave and bear hardships and peril by your side, but should be disappointed if they did not come." 
               "You have so much resistance, Elsie! but do not do with your wealth of energy as the Prodigal Son did with his wealth of money, spend it all at the outset; and, as an illustration of what I mean, put your hands within your cloak, and fold it closely around your chest-we are about to turn and face a sharp, if not a violent north-wester, and after the sun is fully up, you will see that it will blow harder," said Magnus, as they turned the end of the street and entered the turnpike road. 
               It was a glorious winter day; the sun now arose in cloudless splendour, lighting up the snow-clad hills and plains, and ice-spangled forest trees and bushes into flashing, dazzling radiance, while far away behind them dashed and sparkled the green waters of the Chesapeake, like a sea of molten emeralds. 
               Their road, after leaving the village, lay over the snowy hills and plains, and through the forest around the base of Mount Calm. In making the circuit they once came in full view of the front of the mansion-house, and Elsie, seizing her husband's arm, exclaimed, 
               "Magnus, the your pocket handkerchief at the end of your stick, and get up and wave it. I know that our beloved mother has been watching at that window for the last hour to see us pass. I know it, though it is too distant to see her distinctly; yet I think I see somebody there. Wave it, Magnus, and then we'll know." 
               Doctor Hardcastle stood up, lifted the impromptu flag on high, and presently the signal was returned by a white cloth waved from the window, and instantly withdrawn. 
                
               "She saw us, she saw us, Magnus! But stay! why didn't she look out?" 
               "It would not have been safe on such a sharp morning as this, for your mother to run her head out of the window in that bleak, exposed position," said Magnus, repressing the various vague forebodings of his heart. 
               "I am afraid something has happened to mother, Magnus. Oh! indeed, I feel as if something had," said Elsie, anxiously. 
               "Nonsense, my love. I saw some of the gentlemen who were there last night until twelve, and who slept at the hotel, and one of them told me when I inquired, that all the family were well. However, Elsie, in driving around we will see some of the coloured folks, and receive fresh assurance. Elsie, dear, it is solely on your mother's account that I do not turn into the grounds and drive up to the mansion-house now, and make a last effort at reconciliation with your father. I know, Elsie, that it would only subject her to a violent and perhaps fatal scene. I know, poor child, that it is a great trial to you to pass by your father's house, bound for a long journey, and a new, strange life, without stopping to ask his blessing. Oh! I know it, my poor Elsie! but keep your courage; this is the sharpest, and it is also the last trial you shall have." 
               "Oh, my courage is up," said Elsie, dashing the sparkling tears from her eyes, and smiling out like an April sun from the clouds. "These, father, are the very last tears I am going to shed. No, indeed, won't I, for anybody's cruelty and injustice!" 
               "Hush, hush, my darling! 'The heart grows bitter by saying bitter things,'" said Magnus, kissing the dew-drops from her rosy cheek. 
               "Gee up, Dobbin! make them gee up, Magnus," said Elsie, poking at the mules with the point of her umbrella. 
               Magnus put whip to the animals, and they started afresh. Soon, in turning around towards the back of Mount Calm, they came to a group of negroes just starting to their work. Every man of them dropped his hat, and stood bowing, smiling, and grimacing at the sight of their young mistress. Magnus stopped the wagon. 
               "How are they all at the house, Uncle Bob?" he asked of the driver. 
               "All fus' rate, sar! 'Deed dey is, Miss Elsie, honey!" 
                
               "Are you sure that mother is quite well, Bob?" 
               "'Deed, fus' rate, Miss Elsie! 'Deed is her, honey!" 
               "How do you know, Uncle Bob? you never go to the house." 
               "'Deed, honey, sister Milly told me; 'deed, honey, you needn't be 't all oneasy, nor likewise 'stress in your min' 'bout your ma! De madam is fus' rate-'deed her is! Der wa'n't nothin' of no fuss, nuther, honey!-eberyting passed off quite quiet-Marse Iron he had some company las' night, and 'joyed himself 'long o' de gemmen very much." 
               It is unnecessary to say, that "Iron" was the negro corruption of Aaron, and not an unapt translation, either. 
               "And mother is well and cheerful?" 
               "High! what I tell you, Miss Elsie? Think I gwine to ax you a lie? De madam is fus' rate!" 
               "Thank Heaven, then! Here, Bob, here is a keepsake for you. It is a little prayer-book that I have carried in my pocket ever since I first left home for England. I held it in my hand when I was married, and I intended to carry it out West with me; but here, you shall have it. And, Bob, give my love to mother, and tell her that I am very happy-you hear, Bob?" 
               "Yes, Miss." 
               "And give her this letter, Bob," said Doctor Hardcastle, taking one ready sealed and directed from his pocket. 
               Then they took leave of the coloured folks, shook hands with Uncle Bob, and started. Again Elsie called the driver back. 
               "Now, be sure to tell my dear mother that she must not have a thought or a care for me. Tell her I am very happy." 
               "Yes, Miss Elsie, yes, honey; I'll be sure to tell her-'deed, God A'mighty knows will I. Good-bye! God bless you, Miss Elsie, and you, too, Marse Magnet! I wishes you both, all the good luck in the worl'!-'deed I does, children!-'deed, God A'mighty knows does I-I don't care what ole marse say!" 
               And Uncle Bob hurried off after his staff of workmen, leaving the wagon pursuing its way. 
               Suddenly, with one of his impetuous bursts of emotion, Magnus threw his arms around the form of his his bride, and drew her to his bosom, exclaiming, 
               "Oh, Elsie! every now and then I realize, with a sort of quick, sharp, almost mortal pang of joy, that you really are my wife! Oh, Elsie! my love! my child! there lives not a being on earth so happy as I! There lives not a creature in Heaven so happy as I!" 
               And she sank upon his bosom, pale, faint, with excess of joy. The reins were loosed, the mules came to a stand-still on the decline of the hill, when Elsie, with one of her sudden, healthful rebounds from the bathos of sentiment, sprang laughing up, and seized the reins, exclaiming, 
               "Gee up, Dobbin! Magnus, why don't you make them gee up? We shall not make our thirty miles, to-day." 
               Magnus took the reins from her hands, flourished the whip, and they set off in earnest, unmindful of a cynical old negro by the roadside, who, watching them as he bagged his snowbirds from the trap, said, 
               "The cussed infunnally young fools! I s'pose dey tink it always gwine be jes' so! Gor A'mighty help 'em! Aar, Lor! der troubles is all afore 'em, like young bearses!" 
               And they went on, happy, hopeful, confident, and justly confident; recalling the past with its childish pleasures, planning for the future, pointing out to each other familiar places in the forest, and spots associated with some childish reminiscence-now it was the very tree where Magnus first took her to gather chestnuts; now the very dell where he set traps to catch snow-birds for her; now the thicket where the wild rose-bushes bore so full in spring; now the glade that was red with strawberries in May: and so, talking and laughing, hoping and believing, billing and cooing, our pair of turtle-doves pursued their Westerly flight. 
             
            END OF VOL. I. 
         
       
   
