
    ----CITATION----
        Johnson, Effie, (1825-). The Harwoods , or, The Secret of Happiness .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7576
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The Harwoods , or, The secret of happiness 
            
                 THE HARWOODS; OR, The Secret of Happiness BY EFFIE JOHNSON.  NEW YORK:  AMERICAN FEMALE GUARDIAN SOCIETY, NEW BIBLE HOUSE, EIGHTH ST & FOURTH AV.    Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1857, by the AMFRICAN FEMALE GUARDIAN SOCIETY, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.  Printers and Stereotypers, N. Y,    INTRlODUCTION. O AMONG the many homes where adopted children may be found from the Home for the Friendless, is one located in central New York, where six "olive- plants" have been gathered "round about the table" from the ranks of the orphan and fatherless!e The history ofthis excellent family is narrated in the following pages, by one familiar with its details.  The reader is here presented with no overdrawn picture, but simply an example, in everyday life, of what may be done for the child of sorrow, by a little self-denial and earnest personal effort. For local reasons, the names used are assumedt in other respects, the story is truthful, representing the individuals to whom it alludes, only as they have,. been seen and known in the home circle.  The larger portion of the following chapters first appeared in the Temperance Advocate, of Norwich,  Nfow. Y., and in compliance with the request of nimer- ous readers, were revised and enlarged by the author, aw !S9; ;\.^^   Vuii  -   INTRODUCTION. and presented to the A. F G. Society for publica- tion.  In a note accompanying the documents, the writer remarks: "I wish to give it as a sort of first fruits to the Lord, through your Society as his faithful almoner, only praying that puccess may attend it and that it may awaken in some heart the thought, 'I, too, can do something for the homeless and the orphan.' The avails will be sacredly devoted to the cause of benevolence.  A. THE HARWOODS; OR,  CHAPTER I. I would be ever young as now And see thee blooming, by "my 0id* No marks Of time upon my brow,  And thou., mybeautiful, my bride!  E M.S.  "I WOULD like to stop just here, if old F her Time would do us the favor ;" sa s;eorge. ar- wood to his beautiful. wife, one bright evening in midsummer. They had been sitting in silence for a long time at the door of their pretty coC tage, watching the shadows stealing silently over the waving meadows and fields of golden grain. Slowly and silently they crept on, banishing the sunlight from field and forest, till a gray, stiobre twilight rested over all the scene. The 'more ' distant objects becaime invisible, and from those nearer, the glory seemed to have departed.    10    THE HARWOODS; OR, We will not attempt to analyze the feelings of Mr. Harwood, as he gazed upon this scene; we would not dare to vouch that there were no feel- ings of pride and exultation creeping into his heart, as he looked forth from his cottage door on that calm summer night. It would be very natural, that the owner of all those broad acres, and more than all, of the beautiful wife beside him, should be proud, and happy. She had been indulging in a long and deep reverie, and she turned her blue eyes wonderingly to her husband's face, as he thus addressed her: "I say, Nelly, don't you wish we might never grow older; you are just twenty-five-I am five years older-just old enough to enjoy life fully." ' But the years are swiftly passing by, and old age will soon come, creeping stealthily, like the shadows we have been watching to-night; and you wish the hour-glass might stand still for a while. I can't agree with you, George. When a mere child I mused over this mystery of life a great deal, and wondered why the ancient phi- losophers did not succeed in finding the object of their search, the secret of perpetual youth. I remember now, with what eagerness I read an antiquated volume, the adventures of one who bad discovered this great secret; how the years rolled by, and his youthful friends grew old, and   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      " died, and generation after generation passed away, with their varied passions of love and hate, of Joy and sorrow, and he still wandered upon the earth, solitary and unloved. I shrank from this picture. 'Let me live and love, die and be for- gotten.'" "Let me, too, live and love," said George, "but when I think of death and forgetfulness, I shrink shudderingly away." "The good we do never dies," said Mrs. Har- wood. "We may leave a path of living light behind us, leading even up to the pearly gates of the Heavenly City. What does it matter if our names and forms be forgotten. Oarspits maEyJiv.- feae^.^ih h4i-eaver-on earth in unforgotten deeds of love-ixa  . ni4he pres- ence of Him-, with wfhotn:re -luess-of jy; and pleasures .forjYenrore9^. "But you know, Nelly, I have not the hope which makes the future look so bright to you. I am not a Christian. If I were only like you, I might not shrink as I do from even the remote prospect of what I must surely endure." "If you were only like me, dear husband," the blue eyes were filled with tears, " one so un- worthy, so almost useless. You may be like my ^: adorable Saviour. You will one day be a Chris- : tian." "8 * .    12    THE HARWOODS; OR, A smile chased away the tears from those beautiful eyes, and she looked up to her husband with a clear untroubled gaze, springing from the firm, unwavering rest of faith. "You said, Nelly, but a moment ago, your life was so useless. What did you mean? I cannot understand it." "When I think of such women as Hannah More, and Charlotte Elizabeth, who  have, through their delightful books, accomplished so much; of Mrs. Fry, visiting the loathsome dun- geon of the criminal; of the devoted mission- aries, who have braved death in every form, to carry the Gospel to the heathen, I feel so hum- bled amid the happiness and luxury which sur- round me, I feel almost like an idler in the busy scenes of life." "I think you are not right there. You may accomplish quite as much in your sphere, as they in theirs. You are a true-hearted wife, an affec- tionate sister and daughter, and a faithful Chris- tian. You aid in supporting the gol'pel both at home and among the heathen, besides a thou- saud other good deeds: I cannot enumerate them all." "You are a partial judge, I fear. George, your love blinds your eyes to my many defects. I believe I could do much more good than I am   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      13 doing if I only knew where to commenc, and what to do. I feel that I possess a great deal of surplus energy, lying dormant, for want of some object to exercise it upon, There are novery poor people to assist about us, every child in the community may attend school if he will, indeed, I can see no opening for usefulness but those I am striving to fill, still I will hold myself in readiness; if the Master has more work for me, he will open the way." "Be content with yourself as you are, my bonny wife," said George Harwood; "the influ- ence of an intelligent, consistent Christian woman cannot be measured. You are sowing good seed all about you. Some day you may see the fruit." "May God grant it," fervently ejaculated Mrs. Harwood; " but see, it is growing late." Night had indeed enveloped the earth in her black mantle, but her beautiful daughters, the moon and stars, had come forth to gaze with their clear eyes upon its, curtained loveliness. The distant song of the night-bird alone broke the stillness which everywhere reigned, and all nature seemed hushed to repose. "Nature's voices are all saying 'Rest,' let us  obey." In her dreams that night, Mrs. Harwood was 2   "    THE HARWOODS; OR, building hospitals, and founding schools, and her heart swelled with joy and gratitude, that she was able to accomplish so much; but the bright morning sun streaming into her chamber window dissolved all these magnificent castles into thin air.   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.       15 CHAPTER II. Death doth come, Gently to one of gentle mould like thee, As light winds, wandering through groves of bloom, Detach the delicate blossoms from the tree. Close thy eyes calmly, and without pain, And we will trust in God to see thee yet again. BRYANT. "ET it not be supposed that Mrs. Harwood was one of those philanthropic ladies, who, in their far-reaching zeal, quite overlook the opportuni- ties for doing good within their reach. Among her first duties was that of making a bright and happy home.  Her one servant was treated with so much kindness, and consideration, that she esteemed it a pleasure to serve her. Her duties were faithfully performed, whether under the eye of her mistress or not. Kindness is the very best regulator in a house- hold, and the gratitude it gives birth to, is a won- derfully strong motive power. Mrs. Harwood's tidy cottage and excellent housekeeping were a great wonder to many of her acquaintances, who considered themselves quite as efficient, yet who,   18    THE HARWOODS; OR, with their three or four servants, failed to accom- plish what she did with one. She was sitting in her cheerful little parlor, on the morning succeeding the evening referred to in the preceding chapter. A vase of flowers stood on the table before her, and she often raised her eyes from her sewing to admire their delicate beauty, or to inhale their fragrance. The breeze, which stole softly in through the rose-curtained window, was heavy with perfume, and she was looking very happy among all her pleasant sur- roundings. The door opened and Mr. Harwood entered. He had just returned from a ride to the house of his father-in-law, and he wore a cloud upon his usually open-countenance, which Mrs. Harwood was not slow to perceive. "I have rather sad news for you, Ellen," he said, as he drew a chair and seated himself by her side. "Your sister Carol is quite ill, and wishes you to come and spend a few weeks with her. She speaks lightly of her illness; but that ugly cold she took last winter will, I fear, develop itself. into consumption, if it is not already seated upon her." Mrs. Harwood leaned heavily back, and her face was very white as she said, "My poor, dear sister, can it be---" She was soon seated in the carriage by her   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.     17 husband, and a short ride through a beautiful coun- try, whose loveliness was all unheeded, brought her to her early home. The light-hearted Carol did not spring forth to meet them as usual. Theyfound her propped up by pillows in her easy-chair. Her large blue eyes beamed with an intense briliancy; her cheek was of a crimson hue, and her forehead, of transparent whiteness, was shaded by dark brown curls. She is too good, too beautiful to die, thought Mrs. Harwood, as the white arms were thrown caressingly about her neck, and she whispered, You are so kind to come, you will stay with me till I die, will you not?" "Till you are better, love. Do not talk of dying. I expect to carry you home with me in a few weeks." "Do not flatter me, Ellen, I know I must die. This world is very beautiful to me, but I must leave it; yet I trust I shall have grace to support me through the dark valley of death." Slowly, yet surely, the beautiful Carol went down to the grave. Her father was a much esteemed physician, and he had often taken the beloved child in his visits to his numerous pa- tients. Thus the whole community knew and loved her, and as she was just blooming into womanhood, every eye followed the young maid- 2*   18    THE HARWOODS; OR, ni with admiration and love; now that she was Jil, the whole conmmunity mourned. Her table was covered with fruit and flowera, and nice lit- tle confections, valued as being kind tokens of iegard from her many friends. But all the skill of the physician, :all the love and kindness which surrounded her, stayed not for one hour the ap- proach of the King of Terrors. Only a few weeks after her arrival, Ellen Har- wo0d wrote to her husband. *   *   *   *   *   * "For several days, the angel of Death has been hovering around our beloved one; so near, at times, did he seem, that we almost fancied we felt the damp air of his wings and his icy touch; but still she lingers with us. Calmly and trust- ingly she waits the message to go home. If you would see her again, come immediately to your afflicted            "ELLEN." A few hours afterward, Mr. Harwood was standing with the weeping group around the dying bed of the lovely Carol. She looked earnestly at each one (speech was gone), then with a look of triumph she gazed upward, her blue eyes filled with an unearthly radiance, and she was gone. The church where she had worshiped was   THE -SECRET OF HAPPINESS. is filled to overflowing with real mourners, and, as the lifeless form of the beloved one was borne up the aisle, many smothered sobs were heard. The pastor's voice was tremulous as he gave out the hymn. It was a favorite with the dead; one she had selected for her funeral. "What is life, 'tis but a vapor." The choir arose to sing; but she, whose voice rung so sweet and clear above them all, was silent' now; she did not join in singing her favorite hymn. One after another, amid chok- ing sobs, they sat down, till the sacred song died away in a wail of weeping. They laid her away in the church-yard, and Mrs. Harwood returned sadly to her home. It was her first sorrow. A large circle gathered around the dear old fireside where she was alwa1s welcomed so warmly. Death had wrenched the first, fairest blossom from the home-wreath, anil her heart was desolate. Yet she returned to het duties with renewed zeal, and the old light camei gradually back to her eye, and the smile to het lips. She would meet her in that bright world where death shall never enter.  "When I see one living as you do, my dear wife," said George Harwood, "or dying as did our beloved Carol, I can say, 'Almost thou per- suadest me to be a Christian.'    Oo   TaE 4ARWOODS; OR, CHAPTER III. I saw a tasteful dwelling reared Amid the din of active life, Within whose portals discord feared To raise one single note of strife. *   *   *   *   *   * Sweet thought i that whatsoe'er the clime, In princely hall, or desert place, Wherever pure afections vine Strikes healthful root, is happiness. E M.8. TIME flowed peacefully onward at Harwood Farm,  Two years had passed away since the bautiful Carol was laid in the grave-yard. It was an early spring morning, cold and comfort- 1ess, and nature wore that brown, unlovely hue she always wears/before donning her gay sum- mner attire. Mr., arwood entered his pleasant sitting-room, where the bright wood-fire, crack- ling upon the hearth, gave an air of comfort which strongly contrasted with the dreariness without.  Mrs. Harwood's ever busy fingers were actively plying  the needle.  Drawing a ehair near her, he took the work from    her hands and said:   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      21 "I have a project in my head, Nelly, upon which I want your opinion. I begin to tire of life upon the farm-you have too much care. Now, I have a pretty lot in N., and I'm thinking of building a nice little cottage just to our minds, and retiring from business. What think you t" "If you wish it, I shall offer no objections; but I love this old place very dearly, and shall be sad to leave it." "It will be only to find a pleasanter home; but now I wish you to draw a plan for the cot. tage-not one 6f those great overgrown houses, wearing your life out to keep it in order-but a nice little cottage, just large enough for comfort and convenience." "Dear me, George, I fear you require an impos- sibility. I know nothing of the principles of ar- chitecture, and fear I shall make sad work of it." "Well, you dq know something of the prin- ciples of taste and fitnesss-the foundation of beauty everywhere." "You are a flatterer. I hope I shall not be so unfortunate as our good neighbor H. would predict, who says every woman should have her house hung upon a swivel, to tun at her pleasure." "Neighbor H. is too uncharitable," said Har- wood. "I believe women are no more fickle than men."   22    THE HARWOODS; OR, "You are a pretty good advocate for our sex. -korge. How is it that you are never satirical? One would be led to believe that you see no faults in our faulty sex; most men think it a very witty thing to hold up our faults and foibles to ridicule."  "Well, Ellen, I am sincere; I really think well of the sex-having so perfect a pattern always before me." "Fie, George, you are always slipping in com- pliments in every imaginable way. To deserve all your praises I should not dare to try; but after all, you have the true principle. To make a good wife. is no very hard matter; no true woman, who possesses her husband's love and confidence, will betray it; she will strive ear- nestly to merit and retain it. But this fretful- ness and fault-finding, and dearth of kind looks and words, send many a young wife to the grave heart-broken, or cause her to drag out a sad, weary life. One might as easily court rest and repose in a bed of thistles, as in some houses I -wot of. Yes, love is the great moral regulator of the universe." (' Well, we are quite forgetting the plan of the cottage. Take plenty of time; I would like to have it finished before winter, however." A few weeks afterwards Mrs. Harwood laid   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      2* her drawing before her husband. It met his entire approval, and ere winter closed in they were quietly settled in their new home. The ensuing winter was marked by an event which filled the heart of the devoted wife with grateful joy. The prayers of many years were answered, and he who had ever been the kind, faithful coima- panion, became her fellow-pilgrimi to the eternal city. Morning and evening sacrifice was offere upon the home altar, and an anthem of praise and thanksgiing arose to "Him   who hath washed us from  our sins in his own blood." The winter flew swiftly by, and spring threw hei robe of beauty over the earth again. Mrs. Ha1r wood possessed an sad&nt love foro the beautiful; and now she had full scope for its exercise. The grounds about the cottage were soon teeming with floral beauty; the crocus and- snow-drip, and their spring-loving sistersr hailed her first approach. Roses in eidless variety were sea- tered about. Around the pillars of the veranit h delicate bvines were trained. Th :'moinds A'id borders were brilliant with flowers of varied hui whose frgirance filled the air. The elo ely-shavAt grass-plots,; and li'cely-giavel wal were 'fi ee from weeds. Withi; the house, the irks of a i fined taste were eve ywhere visible. Wsiplicity a elegance characterized the entire arrangements."   24    THE HARWOOD S; OR, "1 am sure the Harwoods must be perfectly happy," many people said. '"They have weath enough. Their home is a perfect paradise. They are Christians,' and so well suited to eaoh other. They -have so many friends; what can they want moret"' Yet that vague unrest still at times haunted Ellen Harwood's heart- the consciousness that she was not doing all -the good she might do. "To whom murch is given, of him will much be required" How have I deserved so many mercies Why is my path of life so bright, while so many are shrouded in darkness What is my object in life? Do I acomplish any good,  Were ques- tions she often asked hersetf in the solitude of her chamber.. Of late the thought had often entered her mind-I might give a home to some friendless child, and educate her for usefulness. "'If I could have my pet niece, Nelly Oham- bir, I would gladly adopt her as my own," she said to her, husband. "It is no principle of benevolence that I am actuated by, I fear; Nelly hatsa good home, and kind paents, while many at .orphlag asnd penniless .I have been think- /  we mxighgi;ve a home to some friendless it- tV ne, and ths be doing good, while, perhaps, wqi   l, el confezigag a pleasure uponI uqr- .UEt 3                 p , q-'P             3   THE SECRET OF HAPPINE     8S. 25 "If it will not be too much care for you, I would like the plan. I have seen a little orphan girl, in S , one of ten children recently be- reaved of both father and mother." "I wish you had brought- her; home," said Mrs. Harwood- "Had we- not better send for her immediately?" "If you wish it, I will go to-morrow." 3   26    THE HARWOODS; OR, CHAPTER IV. And say to mothers what a holy charge Is theirs-with what a kingly power their love Might rule the fountains of the new-born mind, Warn them to wake at early dawn, and Sow Good seed, before the world has sown its tares. MRS. SIGOURNEY. THE sunshine streamed brightly through the vine-covered windows of Harwood Cottage, and as they fell in golden waves over the cage of the pet canary, he poured forth a flood of music so rich and full, that the little fairy form, which was flitting about filling the' flower-vases, stopped and gazed upward in wonder and delight. One could not tell which to admire most-the bird rejoicing in the sunshine, the flowers so exquisitely ar- ranged, or the little earnest, upturned face of the beautiful child, who seemed a fit companion for birds, and flowers, and everything pure and beau- tiful. "How pretty our little Ida is growing," said Mr. Harwood, as the child left the room. "She is so intelligent and full of life. When shall she be sent to school? She must be well educated, and I believe we should send her to some good  school before long."   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      27 ' I do not think she is old enough yet," said Mrs. Harwood. "I have comrmanced her educa- tion already; but she is so delicate she must not apply herself too closely." 'Well, I suppose you are right, Ellen, but I would like to have her education as thorough as possible, not a mere fashionable smattering of French, and music, and botany, etc., but a good solid English foundation with just enough of the lighter branches to give grace and beauty. I want she should learn to think for herself, and not be swayed by every opinion she may hear. To think rightly and truly is a great art." "Very true, George, and she may learn all this, and yet her education be only commenced." "How is that," said Mr. Harwood. "If her conscience be uneducated, and she be at a loss to discern between right and wrong, she will be miserably educated, even though on scien- tific subjects her judgment may be unerring." "Isn't that a droll idea, Nelly, an educated conscience? I have always considered conscience a faculty which God has given to show us right and wrong, to guide our choice, I would have said, teaching us to choose the good and abhor the evil. Does it not savor of presumption to talk of educating this God-given faculty?. "Judge for yourself, my dear," said Mrs. Hr-   28    THE HARWOODS; OR, wood. "    Our Puritan father took the Bible for his guide, anid bent o0ur conseiences to the Bible rule. We could not profane the holy Sabbath as we see many do, without terrible lashings of our inward monitor.- We could not wrong our neigh- bor, or place our hearts unduly on any earthly object, without feeling self-reproach. You re- member our neighbor N r , who kept the large dairy. Although they are church members, they spend half the Sabbath in making their cheese, and then hasten off to church, tired and flurried, to worship their God, who said, amid the awful majesty of Sinai, 'Remember the Sabbath-day to keep it holy.' I remonstrated with them. They answered me: 'Our consciences do not condemn us; it is a work of necessity.' I told them they coulf leave their milk over the Sab- bath and maike butter of it. 'Oh, that would be so inconvenient, mixing up the business in such a way as to lessen the profits.' Then it is profit after all, instead of necessity? "s There are scores of just such church-mem- bers, while, on the other hand, there are those who make no profession of religion, and yet are strict in observing manyo of the comian;dments. If we trace the history of these individuals back, we shall find that the first were surrounded by im- moral :influences tin their childhood, that their   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS. S2 consciences were warped by-evil influences, until they are incapable of reproving them, even when violating a known law. The second were reared amid right influences, which still exercise a eon trolling power." "That rumseller you reproved the other dayb is an example." "Hold, my dear wife, Pll not allow that rum- sellers have any consciences at all. They have become so deadened, and the love of lucre has become so omnipotent, that theo music of three pence, falling into their money-till, has irresisti- ble charms, even though they know the sound is echoed by a yell of triumph in Pandemonium, and the wail of the starving wife and children at home. No I don't tell me of rumsellers' con' sciences. You might as well tell me the long- sought 'Philosopher's stone,' which had the pdw- er of transmuting all the baser metals into gold, was discovered at last, as to tell me of that pure monitor residingin the breast of a miserable rum- seller." Well, George, we will dismiss him, and taft the man who raises grain or hops, and sells theui to the distiller. "There are high-minded, conscientious men, who are in the habit of tracing cause to effect, who would no more sell to the distiller the mates 3*   81    T:HE .HA'RWOOD$; OR, whence he might    manufacture the pernici- ous stuff, than they would take the l1ace o f the veider hitnse i Othets hve no scruples onA the Matter. jtither the Sideiences -of the last-men- tioned must be very elastic, or they have been sadiywarped by wrong tinfltences. There is but one rule of right for all." '"We'll, Ellen, you are making out a pretty clear case8, but is this all tihat the little word edu- cation- comprises" 'ef :;"1ii do inot thinki George, you would choose a wife totally igor8att of domestit duties. I re- gard the young lady, hotwever elegant and accomi pushed she may be; who has not "the ability to keep a wellbordered - house- to inake a happy home, as sadly deficient in her education." "('I'll admit that,:Felly, without an argument  but istkisall '? - ":Wait a t'aomet;/ I am almost through with my idea bf -the definitiot of that comprehensive word. -A woman may be a thoroughIaousekeep- er, may possess a cultivated intellect, a true con- science, and yet'bdibwtd, heartless being, whom it would beiaap-od e tlove.'" "Why, my dear, if she be cold aind heartless, educationu oanmnot "u , othat, I suppose.' Wi: ith'ink i't eaas:'eet: I do not uitle agree *ith" one who has said : The mind of a child is   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.       $ like a piece of blank paper, which weomay fill tip at pleaiure,' but I 'd beiev e the dispo4itfi6s which show -themselves, miay be, in a great e gree, moulded by tight ,influenes. We " n bin taught to be generously forgetl of self, t d mindful of others, anid thus the foundation of true politeness be laid. Itis the fashion- in so ie classes to speak sneeringly of politeness,'but I believe it to be a part of our religion; not-:ti at -mooth, icy polish of manner, which make; eavery one feel so uncomfortable, but those kind, geHntle attentions which spring from a heart full of kidl- ness and good-will to all." "Then you think, Ellen, that if the heart be right, it will be very natural and easy to be kind and polite." "Certainly. Those are beautiful lines, by Wil- lis, I think: Oh, if there be one law above the rest Written in wisdonm-if there is a word That I would trace as with a pen of fire Upon the unswerved temperof a child- If there is anything that keeps the mind Open to angel visits, and repels The ministry of ill-'tis human love.'" "I confess, my dear," said Mr. Harwood, "that your ideas of education impress me very favor. ably. A  child educated upon those principles   82    THE HARWOODS; OR, must be useful and happy; but here comes our little Ida with her apron full of roses; come here, puss, and tell me how you would like to go away to school with dozens of little girls just like your- self for playfellows ." "And leave you, and mamma, and my flow- ers, and mya pretty birdie," said Ida. "Oh, do not send me away.  I will study so hard at homne." "Well," said Mr. Harwood, "improve your time and you shall not be sent away at pres- ent." ? v   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      3 CHAPTER V. By what strange spell Is it, that ever, when I gaze on flowers, I dream of music?   MRS. HEMANS. JUST across- the garden of Harwood Cottage was another pretty garden, separated from it only by a high picket fence. Through this there was a low gate opening into a gravel walk, leading down through the garden with a trellis of grape vines on one side, and a strawherry bed on the other. A gate opened from this into a nice green yard, in which stood a large white house where the sister of Mrs. Harwood resided. She was older than Mrs. Harwood, but there was such a calm loveliness resting upon her features that she always looked young and beautiful. She had light brown hair, parted smoothly back from Her calm, pure brow, eyes as blue as the summer sky, and such a sweet smile always hovering around her beautiful lips. It was a rare treat to Ida to be permitted to visit Mrs. Bowers, for such was her name. She, too, had no children but an adopt- ed one. Aside from her love to Mrs. Bowers, which was very sincere, there was another strong attraction at the house.   84    THE HARWOODS; OR, Ida loved music passionately, and there was a fine organ and piano in her parlor, and the little girl was permitted to play upon them as much as she chose. She showed a wonderful aptitude for music, and soon played several airs with taste and skill. Across the' yard from Mrs. Bowers', stood a low white cottage with a pretty verandah in front, over which a fine running rose was trained. On one side of the cottage was a large tulip bed bril- liant with varied colors. Here resided the father and mother of Mrs. Harwood, who had removed here to be near their children. The father was a fine old gentleman, with silver hair falling over his high, broad forehead. The mother a gentle, mild-looking woman, beloved by all who knew her. Aged people love to linger over the scenes of their youth. Events occurring more than a half- century ago, are remembered with far greater clearness than those transpiring. but a few days previous. It was very pleasant for Ida to sit and listen to the revolutionary tales he loved to  tell, and the youthful adventures in which he had figured so long ago. Reverence for the aged is a beautiful trait in youth. To sit at the feet of one who is rich in the lore of a long life, is a privilege we ought not lightly to esteem.   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      35 Amid these pleasant scenes, Ida Harwood's life passed on smoothly, and every year added a fresher bloom to her pale cheek, and her little heart seemed brm-full of happiness. A short distance back from the village were two minia- ture lakes. One of these was a favorite resort of Ida and her young companions. It was very clear and deep, so deep that no one had yet sounded its depths. Tall trees grew around it, while in some places the green grassy lawn sur- rounding it swept quite down to its brink. When the wind waved among the tree-tops its strange, wild song, and the shadows fell so dark over the bright waters, Ida loved to sit gazing into their mysterious depths, and people their dark recesses with fairy images, or watching the shadows as they crept up the steep hills surrounding the lake. There was something in these scenes w4hic filled her soul with a dreamy, melancholy jOy: Her soul was full of unwritten poetry, and there was a sweetness and melody in her gushes of childish song, which held the listener entranced. "I think we should purchase Ida an instr- ment," said Mr. Harwood to his wife, "she has such. a taste for music, and learns so readily. What do you think of it?" "Christmas will soon be here, and it will be a very acceptable present," said Mrs. Harwood.   36    THE HARWOODS; OR, "I shall visit the city in a few weeks, and will purchase one; but do not let her know of it." Ch'rstmas eve, so eagerly waited ,for by thou- sands of little children, who expected a visit from that ubiquitous personage, Monsieur Santa Claus, was come at last. "I hardly think I shall have a present this year," said Ida, as she sat looking dreamily into the fire. "Why not?" said her mother. "Oh, I've been thinking of so many naughty things I have done through the year, that old Santa Claus will surely forget me." "Well, we shall, see; you have tried to be a goodgirl, have you not?"  "Yes, I have tried; but it is so easy to resolve and so hard to perform." "Many older people are troubled in the same way, my dear," said Mrs. Harwood; "but let us hope oldSanta Claus will be indulgent this time. We had better retire early,' After Ida was in bed she heard several strange thumping noises, whioh seemed like moving some heavy object, and once she thought she heard a strain of music; but she was half sleeping, and soon was in dream-land. Christmasmorning had come, and all the other little children were rejoicing in their treasures,   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      37 but her stocking was empty-only a little slip of paper was found, on which was written, "Bad girl." When the morning sunlight fell upon her eyes on Christmas, she awoke very happy that her trouble was all a dream. Hastily dressing her- self, she hurried down stairs. Breakfast was already on the table, and the family were as- sembled for prayers. Ida felt so much ashamed of having overslept herself, that Santa Claus was, for the time, entirely forgotten. After breakfast she had occasion to go into the back parlor, when, what was her amazement on seeing an elegantly-carved rosewood piano. Drawing nearer, she saw upon the centre of the rich cloth cover a card bearing her own name. Her first impulse was to rush out to tell her mother the joyful news, when, turning, she saw them both standing in the door enjoying her amazement. "Is this beautiful instrument really mine?" she asked, in high excitement. "Yes, it is yours," they answered. "How have I deserved it?" she said, bursting into tears. "Come, puss, we must have none of this," said George, gaily. "We shall be sorry Santa Claus made- our little girl a call, if it sets her weeping after this fashion." 4   38    THE HlARWOODS; OR, "Oh, I am so happy, let me cry," she said, smiling through her tears.  She ran her hand over the polished Keys. Its tones were sweet as the tEolian harp. She seem- ed never to tire of admiring its rich carving and elegant polish. Her music lessons on that in- strument would be only a pastime. But we will leave her amid her happiness, and turn to a darker scene.                 .   THE SECRET   OF HAPPINESS.    39 CHAPTER VI. Ah! it is sad when one thus linked departs, When Death, that mighty severer of true hearts, Sweeps through the halls so lately loud with mirth And leaves pale Sorrow weeping by the hearth. MRS. NORTON'S Dream. "A LETTER for you, Ellen," said Mr. Har- wood; "from Mr. Chambers, I should judge." She hastily broke the seal. Before she had finished the letter, she grew very pale, and trembled so violently that her husband inquired the cause. "Sister Chambers is very ill-dying, they say, and we must go to her immediately." The wind howled dismally through the leafless tree-tops, and over the wide expanse of snow, drifting it sometimes across their path so deep that they could hardly proceed; but the dreary journey was ended at last, and they stood by the bedside of the dying. Florence, a beautiful girl of twelve sumnmers, stood by the side of the couch, holding her mother's thin hand within her own. Mr. Chambers sat at a little-distance, his tall form bent,- and exhibiting, in his whole appearance, helpless, hopeless sorrow.   40    THE HA:RWOODS; OR, The beloved wife of his youth, the mother of his helpless children, was dying, and the strong man wept. Two noble-looking lads sat by his side, silently weeping, while, upon the foot of the couch, in happy unconsciousness of the loss she was about to sustain, sat little Nelly, the pet of the household. "I am glad you have come," said Mrs. Cham- bers, faintly. "I must die, and leave these help- less children, but, Ellen, you will never see them suffer?" "Never, dear sister," sobbed Ellen Harwood- "but must you die? Is there no hope?" None, the physician tells me." "And how does death appear to you, my sis- ter?" "Oh, it is hard for a mother to die. My little children, if it were not for them I could go cheer- fully, rejoicingly. I will commit them into His hands, who has said: 'When thy father and mo- ther forsake thee then the Lord will take thee up.' I can trust them in His hands." A change came over the pale features. They gathered around her for the last farewell. A mute pressure of each beloved hand, a last fond look from the glazing eye, the white lips moved as if in prayer, and she was gone. There was a dreadful stillness in the house to   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      41 the frightened children, as the dead mother lay so cold and silent in the parlor. Aunty, why does not mamma get up and come and speak to poor Nelly? She is so cold, let me lead her here by the warm fire. Oh, it is so lonely without mamma." And the poor child laid her weeping head upon her aunt's shoulder, while she soothingly told her of her mamma w watch over her darling hild. "Oh, if she would only take me with her," sobbed the desolate young creature. Mrs. Harwood told her of the love of the com- passionate Saviour, how he took little children in his arms, and blessed them, and said: "Suffer little children to come unto me." If she would love and obey the Saviour, he would come, after a while, and take her to her mother. The cold wintry wind sighed and moaned over the snowy mounds in the grave-yard, as the sor- rowing group drew near to deposit the cold form of the wife and mother in her narrow bed. Weep- ing parents mourned the affectionate daughter; brothers and sisters, one of their number; the husband and children, their best earthly friend. Many mourned a faithful and beloved friend, and as they gathered around the grave, many bitter tears fell upon the frozen turf. Little Ellen had 4*   42    THE HARWOQODS; OR, watched all the proceedings with a strange eager- ness. The cords were placed under the coffin, and they were about to lower it into the grave, when she rushed forward, and, clasping her tiny arms about it, shrieked: "You shall not put my dear mamma in that dreadful place. Oh, papa, take her away. Do not let them bury my mamma in the cold ground." Amid choking sobs, they bore the little one away, and left the dead mother to her rest. When the Harwoods returned to their home, poor Nelly besought them to take her with them, but the bereaved father could not spare another from his home; and, although Ellen's heart yearned over the orphan group with a mother's tenderness, she could only prayerfully commit them to the orphan's God. I do not know that we are doing our whole duty, George," she said to him one day. "There are hundreds of just such desolate families in the world as-the one we have just left. Perhaps we should find a place by our fireside for another." "If you do not burden yourself with too much, I do not care how many you take."   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      48 CHAPTER VII. A BENEVOLENT institution in New York, "The Home for the Friendless," had long engaged Mrs. Harwood's attention. Hitherto, she had contented herself with giving liberally for its support, and daily remembering it at a throne of grace. Now, she began to think, "I might take some of those friendless ones anid train them for usefulness and heaven." While Mr. and Mrs. Harwood were discussing this subject, a ring was heard at the door, and in fluttered Mrs. Frisby, a gay, smiling, complimentary sort of woman, who professed a very ardent friendship for Mrs. Har- wood. After a few remarks, the subject which had so much engrossed their attention was re- sumed. Mrs. Frisby listened very attentively a few moments, and then remarked, "Oh, you are talking of the ' ome for the Friendless,' a branch of the 'American Tract Society.' A pretty good institution, but I never waste my money on such things; besides," it has a very excellent revenue from the Tract Society."   "    THE HARWOODS; OR, "I beg pardon, Mrs. Frisby, you are entirely mistaken. The ' Home' has no connection what- ever with the Tract Society, but depends entirely for its support on the voluntary contributions of the benevolent." "I am extremely sorry, my dear Mrs. Har- wood, to differ with you, but I cannot be mis- taken. Rev. Mr. Meachem and Rev. Mr. Cleaver both told me with their own lips that the ' Home'* is only a branch of the Tract Society. You will acknowledge that these are both very intelligent and estimable men. They told me, too, that it was entirely a sectarian affair, and each church has quite enough to do to support its own insti- tutions." "If it be a 'sectarian affair,' then I will surely belong to such a sect; for our Saviour says, Of such is the kingdom of Heaven.'  No, Mrs. Frisby, allow me, to say, with all due deference to those reverend gentlemen, that every Christian denomination is engaged in this glorious work; some far more actively than others, it is true; owing, doubtless, to the fact that they have more light upon the subject. No, Mrs. Frisby, there is no more sectarianism here than the Bible com- mands. 'Suffer the little children to come unto me." "Well, Mrs. Harwood, isn't this Am. Female   THE S ECRET OF H A?PINESS.    45 Guardian Society the old Moral Reform Society modeled over? You cannot deny that, rm sure." Nor do I desire to. I have been conniecte4 with this society from its organization uintiIlnow, and I will venture to assert that no cause has been more signally blessed of God. I remember them as a feeble band of women, laboring to restore the fallen of their sex, struggling on against discour- agements which would have caused the faint- hearted to turn aside; patiently bearing reproach and persecution from both friends and foes-from the Church and the world. Gradually the light' dawned upon them that 'prevention was better than cure;' that while they were laboring, often hopelessly, to reclaim one fallen sister, many more were falling into the same snare. Then they turned their eyes to the fountain-head of all this wretchedness and woe-to the thousands of homeless children who roam the streets of the great city, unloved and uncared for, an easy prey to the base and designing. "How the wise ones snieered when this little band said, We will build a 'Hone for the 'Frieind- less.' Hither we will bring the children of want and sorrow. We will find them homes in kind Christian families, where they will be trained so that they may prove a blessing instead of. a curse to society.   "    THE HARWOODS; OR, "'What has been the result of this determina- tion? At an expense of many thousand dollars, large and convenient buildings have been erected. Two thousand children have been provided with safe, pleasant homes. The sun of prosperity beams brightly upon us, and instead of a re- proach, it is esteemed an honor, even by the pleasure-loving world, to be identified with this cause. Sister institutions have sprung up, not only in New York, but in several other cities. Industrial schools have been established, and thus a class is reached and aided, which could not be approached in any other way. But ex- cuse me, my friend, I have really been delivering quite a lecture. When I get interested in this subject, I hardly know where to stop." "Oh, go on, Mrs. Harwood, I have been quite entertained I assure you. Your lecture,' as you call it, sounds quite like a fairy tale. But where did the funds come from, by which all these great things were accomplished? , "' This little band knew and tested the value of prayer. They sent forth, beside, a little mes- senger, 'The Advocate and Guardian,' to tell their story and plead their cause for them. Wherever this little Advocate came, Bigotry and Prejudice spread their dark pinions and took their flight, and Benevolence and Love took their places.   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.       47 So, from thousands of city and country homes the little rills started, and the work was done. But the rills are still flowing; for, great as is the work which has been accomplished, I believe it has but just begun. It seems to me like the first faint dawning of the millennial day." "Ah, there is the trouble," exclaimed Mrs. Frisby. "If one becomes interested in these things, there really seems no stopping-place. Giving leads to giving, till at last the greatest pleasure of one's life seems to be, eternally giving." I Very true, my dear friend.  'It is more blessed to give than to receive;' and as we are constantly receiving, if we would be blessed, we must, as faithful stewards, be constantly giving." "\ Bless me," said Mrs. Frisby, looking at her watch, "I intended to have made half a dozen calls this morning, and here I've spent the whole morning with you. But success to you in your benevolent designs. If I could only find time I would join you, and see what success I could have in training up one of those friendless ones. But my time is so entirely occupied.  Good morning."  And away sped the gay, frivolous creature on her busy round of nothings, spend- ing time, strength, wealth, her earthly all, in the pursuit of the fairy, Pleasure, which still forever eluded her grasp.   48    THE HARWOODS; OR, "How I pity Mrs. Frisby," said Mr. Harwood a short time after her departure. "She really seems possessed of good impulses, and yet, so far as any good, either for herself or others, is concerned, her existence seems to be a perfect blank. I never saw her so long interested in a serious subject before, and I really began to hope she might now begin a life of active benevolence; but alas, she hasn't time." ' She is only one of a numerous class," replied Mrs. Harwood, "whose thoughts, and hopes, and plans, all revolve around that little centre, self. Such persons cannot be happy, from the fact that such a narrow, selfish policy actually contracts the capacity for enjoyment. I desire no purer happiness than in seeing every one happy around me; and how often it is necessary to 'deny our- selves' to bring this about. But we are forget- ting what we were talking about. I begin, m6re than ever, to believe it is our duty to adopt one, at least, of those orphans." "Very well," said Mr. Hrwood: "I believe one would be safe under your guardian care." Aletter was dispatched to the teacher of the chil- dren, an intimate friend of Mrs. Harwood, wishing her to select one-from among thelittle ones for her. A fortnight after, little Jane arrived at Har- wood Cottage in the care of a friend. ,-*/*   THE  SECRET   OF HAPPINESS.    49 CHAPTER VIII. The fields did laugh, the flowers didfreshy spring, The trees did bud, and early blossom bear, And all the choir of birds did sweetly sing. SPENSER'S Fairy Queen. LITTLE Jenny opened her blue eyes very wide in wonder and astonishment, at the many new scepes which presented themselves. Accustomed all her life to the narrow pent-up streets and dirty alleys of the crowded city, it was with a feeling of infinite relief she saw the broad, green fields stretching away as far as the eye could reach on every side.  Instead of the dwarfed, dusty trees she thought so beautiful mi her city home, were tall, graceful forests; where the birds were caroling their sweetest-songs. When the kind ladies of the "Home" took her from the miserable garret where her mother died, to the clean, spacious dwelling prepared for the friend- less, she thought herself happy, indeed. She had been an inmate of that excellent institution more than a year; but those who came to choose from the -orphan group some little one to fill a vacancy by their fireside, passed by little Jenny. She was   i0    TTHE HARWOODS; OR, not beautiful, and beauty is so attractive every- where; so the fair, graceful, bright-eyed little ones were taken to pleasant homes, and good lit- tle Jenny, with her plain face and square ungrace- ful figure, was left under the instruction of the excellent teacher, Miss L., with whom she was a great favorite. When Mrs. Harwood's letter came, Jenny was the one selected, and although she shed many tears at parting with her kind friends-yet when she reached the vine-wreathed cottage, which was to be her future home, and saw the kind faces of hrtinewr, parents, and her beau- tiful: sister, her itt ';lh4'rt was full of joy and happiness. A greatr co6ntrast than the two sis- ters exhibited could not be imagined. Ida was just entering her teens, tall and grace- ful as a lily. She -was rather ,pale, but her dark brown hair, and     1 :' kl - in eyes, gave a bril- liant -expression t ' i'otlae Little Jenny was' e  'Sisort' in figure, with a large, good-hui d ;, e lue eyes, and light-brown hair, and a little muiuscal brogue; for Jenny was a native of the Emerald Isle. Some one has said, "We are most strongly attracted by ourl opposite." How this may be we know not--but certain it is, a very strong affection sprung up between the new-made sisters. Jenny seemed to look up to her n e Sr -  .:S      O    THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      51 stately sister with a sort of admiration, mingled with awe, while Ida, and eely one else in the house and out of it, loved the pleasant, tidy little Jenny, the very personification of neatness and good-humor. Those blue eyes were not very bright and sparkling, but they saw everything that occurred, and when hat, cane, gloves, or rubbers were mis- laid, if Jenny were called, they were instantly forthcoming. She had been an inmate of the family six months when Mrs. Harwood wrote to her friend, Miss L.: "I am much pleased with the little girl you sent me. I can hardly discover a fault in her. She adds much to our happiness as a family, and we should be entirely unwillingl to give her up now." A short distance down the street lived Dr.. Pendel, a brother of Mrs. Harwood. He was a tall, noble-looking man, with a fine open coun- tenance-full of life and good-humor, and his visits to the Harwoods, with his amiable wife and pretty daughter, were always welcomed by the whole family, from the eldest to the youngest. Pretty Kate Pendel-how shall we describe her? We might as well attempt to picture a sunbeam, as the merry-hearted, mischievous little Kate with her dimpled cheeks and waving golden hair.   52    THE HARWOODS; OR, No one ever heard Kate attempt to sing, yet there was more melody in her clear, ringing laugh than in many a song. It was a pleasant evening in midsummer, Kate and Ida, "the inseparables," were walking arm in arm on the verandah. The fair, round moon moved in unclouded ma- jesty through the heavens, and the stars peeped forth fom the blue depths, as if they would have a glance at the beautiful earth, albeit their brightness was half obscured by the brilliancy of the queen of night. Every leaf and twig was hung with dew- drops, and nestling in the flower-cups the mimic diamonds gave back the coquettish glances of the stars. The moonlight, stealing through the vine- leaves, fell in trembling waves at the feet of the fair promenaders, varying with every changeful breath of the zephyr sporting within their branches. "Is it-not beautiful; dear Kate?' said Ida after a long silence. "I sometimes hope heaven may be like this earth. Tmagination can conceive nofthing fairer, I am sure. Who could even in thought add one new beauty to a scene like this? One seems to hear the grand melody of nature's eternal anthem to its God. Oh, how I love to steal away from the din, and bustle, and confusion of this noisy world which shut my ears- to the eternal harmony, and listen."   THE SECRET OF HAAPPINESS.      53 "You are a strang being, Ida this moonlight evening is very beautiful, but so are a thousand. other scenes in this 'noisy' world. 'Tis none too noisy for me. I love the whirl, and bustle, and hurry. It sets the blood bounding through my veins, and makes me feels strong and happy, and equal to the conflict of life." "Do you know, Kate, that,our parents are dis- cussing the merits of the several schools, and that, in a few weeks, when their choice is made, we are to be sent away among strangers, to 'finish our education?'" "No! indeed. Why I thought Aunt Harwood was educating you herself, I'm sure you have been studying for years, and you are, besides, a model of a housekeeper. Alas, for poor me! who know not even how to make a loaf of bread; and I must confess that my poor head is sadly unfurnished, too." "Well, your heart is not, dear Kate," said' Ida, kissing her rosy cheek. "If our parents caa- find a school where health and domestic educa- tion will not be forgotton while we are studying the sciences and ornamental branches, we shall be exiles soon; I fear." "Since my mother died, I have been growing up quite too much at random, I fear," said:iittl Kate seriously. "My kind second mother i-w 5*   54    THE HARWOODS; OR, doing all she can to nake me happy and useful but I am so wild and thoughtless, I wonder she has so much patience." "Do you know Florence Chambers has a new mother, Kate?" "No! but I am very glad; those poor little children needed a mother's care so much. Oh! a home without a mother is so desolate. It seems so much brighter to me since my new mother came. Why do people talk so stupidly about step-mothers, blaming them allso bitterly because, sometimes, one does wrong?" They believe in imputed sin I suppose, Kate. If all were like my foster-mother, I could love them all , but we have been gone a long while, let us go in." They stood a few moments by the door, which was thrown open, while the shutters were closed, concealing them from view. Mrs. Harwood's lather and mother, the white-haired Dr. Pendel and his wife, occupied two large arm-chairs at the upper end of the room.  Around them  were grouped their children and grandchildren. Mrs. lowers with her calm, sweet face sat beside them, her stately husband leaning over the back of her -chair r A little distance off, stood young Dr. Pen- dei telling some comical story at which they were all laughing merrily,    THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.     55 Kate and Ida stood for a moment gazing in upon the happy group. "How like an angel Aunt Bowers looks," said Ida. "I fear she will not be with us long." "Don't indulge in such gloomy forebodings, Ida; she is so good and kind I am sure she will live. She looks happy, does she not?" "Yes, they all seem very happy, indeed. How is it, religion never makes them gloomy or morose? Now, grandpa has been a Christian forty years, and I believe he is as happy as anybody can be." "Well, Ida, I believe it is because he is a Christian. I am sure they have the best right to be happy of anybody in the world; I wish I was a Christian." Mrs. Harwood. caught a glimpse of a white dress through the shutters, and calling them in said, "We have been waiting for some music, Ida." "You have very pleasant music I am sure," said Ida, "but if you wish it, I will play." Seating herself at the piano, she commenced a favorite air of the dear old grandmamma. The good old lady dropped her knitting, and, with folded hands, she listened till her blue eyes filled with tears. Now, under the skillful touch of the young musician, the instrument would wail forth   56    THE HARWOODS; OR,  tones so sad that the tears would come unbid- den, then breaking into a joyous strain, the sound of low rippling laughter and merry shouts of glee were heard among the trembling chords, and the smiles came back again. Song after song was called for and cheerfully given, and at a late hour the pleasant family-par- ty broke up, wondering where the time could have gone to. It was one of the many pleasant family-gatherings at Harwood Cottage, but alas! that change" should be written on all things earthly. They never all met in that pleasant parlor again. Ida's foreboding was but too true.  .    THE SECRET   OF HAPPINESS.    57 CHAPTER IX. Sure the last end Of the good man is peace! how calm his exit! Night-dews fall not more gently to the ground, Nor weary, worn-out winds expire so soft! BLAIR'S Grave. MOUNT Holyoke, the excellent school, owing its existence to the noble and devoted Mary Lyon, was decided upon, and a few weeks after, with trunks packed and carriages in waiting, Kate and Ida bade the loved circle a last fare- well. It proved a last farewell, indeed; for before their return two of that number were sleeping under the green turf of the church-yard. The summons came first to Mrs. Bowers. Life was very beautiful to her, young, happy, and beloved-why should she not cling to life? Now, the religion, which had been the first 'business of her life, shone forth in heavenly beau- ty. She met even the last foe with the same angelic smile she was wont to greet her friends, and when the cold waves of the river of death   58     THE  HARWOODS; OR, were closing around her, she sent back a note of triumph to the weeping ones who clustered around. "She was so like an angel here on earth, why should we wish to detain her from her home?' said Mrs. Harwood. Yet, with all her efforts, her spirits drooped, and she grew pale and sad. The sisters, whose love had been among her choicest earthly blessings, were sleeping in their early graves. "And now in visions to her couch they come- The eaily lost-the beautiful-the dead, That unto her bequeathed a mournful home Whence with their voices all sweet laughter fled; They rise-the sisters of her youth arise, As from the world where no frail blossom dies. But let her hope be strong, and let the dead Visit her soul in heaven's calm beauty still- Be their names utfered, be their memory spread Yet round the place they nevermore may fill." So sang the gifted poetess, and our hearts echo the appeal. Let the dead live, enshrined within our inmost heart. Let them come in visions of the night, and inspire us with a stronger hope, a firmer trust in Him with whom they rest. Let life spring from the thought of death, a holier life, a more earnest purpose to do all the Master's will. So the discipline we receive from a:: loving Father's hand will work the end designed,   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      59 and the sometime-bitter lessons we learn be not in vain. Thus, after the first shock of bereavement, Mrs. Harwood's heart grew stronger to endure. She had already learned that earth's choicest gifts cannot confer happiness. She now learned that even death cannot take it away. A few months after, the venerable and beloved father retired as usual to his rest, but it proved to him the sleep which "knows no waking." He seemed to rest in a calm, sweet slumber; but the seal of death was set upon the marble features, and again the bitter cup was presented to Mrs. Harwood's lips-the cup so often, of late, pre- sented, and so patiently and unmurmuringly quaffed. I have good news for you, wife," said Mr. Harwood, entering the room where his wife and little Jenny sat with their sewing. "Your niece, Florence Chambers, is coming to spend a few weeks with us. It will be very pleasant now- she will fill Ida's place in a measure, perhaps." "How much-we miss Ida. George, it seems strange we should have lived so long alone, when we might, by giving a home to a friendless orphan, have been happier, while we were doing d." Well, elly, if your conscience reproaches you "Well, Nelly, if your conscience reproaches you   60    THE HARWOODS; OR, any on that score, our house is large enough for more of your little prot6ges still." "I see you mean to give my reflections a very practical turn, George; but if duty require it, I would willingly take into my charge another of these little innocents, to train for earth and hea- ven.'   THE  SECRET OF HAPPINESS.     61 CHAPTER X. Farewell; God knows when we shall meet again. I have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins, That almost freezes up the heat of life. SHAKESPEARE. "COUSIN Florence has come," said little Jenny, bounding into Mrs. Harwood's room a few days after. Mrs. Harwood hastened out to meet them. Her father accompanied her. She seemed to cling to him more closely than ever, since her mother died; and, when he rose to depart, she threw her white arms around his neck and kissed him, while her eyes filled with tears. "I don't know why I should feel so sad, father, but I cannot bear to have you go away." "Oh, you will be home in a few days, pet. 'Be as happy as you can, and try to cheer up your aunt. She has had much to depress her spirits. Good-by, love," and he pushed back the brown curls from her fair forehead-that forehead so like the one be- neath the green turf-and kissed her fondly. He had not reached the gate when he heard a light step tripping down the walk behind him. He turned, and Florence stood beside him. 6   62    THE HARWOODS; OR, "I came to say good-by once more, dear father," and again the soft lips were pressed to his brow. She stood just where he had left her until he was out of sight; then, turning to her aunt, she said: "You will think me very foolish, aunt, but I cannot account for the chill which ran over me, when he said good-by. It seemed to bring my mother's last farewell to my heart so painfully." You are a little nervous, Florence. We have planned rides and visits enough to make the time pass rapidly, and I hope pleasantly to you." "Oh! aunt. I have anticipated so much plea- sure from this visit, I shall be very happy, I am sure." The shadow soon passed from Florence's brow, and her light step and bird-like voice seemed to bring sunshine to Mrs. Harwood's heart again. A week flew rapidly by. They had been absent for two days on a pleasant excursion, and quite a package of letters had accumulated in their ab- sence. One bore the postmark of E  , Florence's home. "News from your father, I believe," he 'aid, breaking the seal. His countenance fell as /he read the brief contents, and, giving it into her hand, he hastily stepped to the door and ordered the carriage. Not many hours after they were at   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      63- E   -, and, bounding from the carriage, Flor- ence was, in a moment, by her father's side; but that erect and noble form, which she had gazed upon with so much love and pride, was prostrate upon a dying bed. "Oh, my father, my father! speak to me once again," sobbed Florence, as she knelt by his side, her brown curls mingling with his raven locks, and tears falling upon his marble forehead; but the fixed, stony gaze of his glassy eye, gave no token of recognition, and the cold hand she pressed re- turned no answering pressure. Even while she knelt by his side, his spirit took its upward flight, and the orphan group gathered in untold grief about the lifeless form of the beloved father, and shed such tears as the orphan only sheds, who wakes from the stupor of grief to find himself out upon life's troubled ocean alone. *    "    THE HARWOODS; OR: CHAPTER   XI. "They waken, Such thoughts as these, an energy, A spirit that will not be shaken Till frail mortality shall die." FLORENCE CHAMBERS found herself, instead of the petted, loving child, the eldest of the group of orphans. To her they came for the counsel they were wont to receive of their parents. She roused herself from the passionate grief she had at first indulged, and strove to meet her duties cheerfully. A womanly dignity, which became her well, took the place of the innocent thought- lessness which once made her appear so charm- ing. A few weeks after her father's death, she wrote to her aunt Harwood: "To you, dear aunt, amid the sorrow and dark- ness which surround me, I turn for sympathy and counsel. The little ones come to me, and I must drive back the great grief which weighs down my spirit, and speak cheerfully and hopefully. But what shall I do? Our mother thinks she cannot stay here, it is so sad and lonely. She will return   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      65 to her father's. Alas! there is no father for us to go to, save our Father in heaven, and some- times I long to lay my weary head beside my father and mother in the grave-yard, and go to Him; but this is wrong I know, and I will strive to live for my sister's and brother's sake. Will our uncle be our guardian? We would all choose him, for we know he would never wrong us. Come to us as soon as you can, for you seem our nearest friend now." "Poor girl," said Mrs. Harwood, as she laid down the letter. "I wish they were all here. I remember sister said, when she was dying: ' You will never see my children suffer.' She did not anticipate so sore a bereavement as this." "We will bring them all home with us, if they will come," said George Harwood. "There is yet room in our cottage for the orphan." The children were all delighted with the thought of a home with kind Uncle Harwood; but when Florence went for the last time into the garden, and saw everywhere the work of the beloved hand now at rest, she wept bitterly. Nectarines and peaches were blushing through the dark green leaves. She remembered when his hand planted them. Clusters of white and purple grapes hung in rich profusion over the trellis-covered walk. She remembered the hand that trained them, and 6*   "    THE HARWOODS; OR, how pleasantly he talked with her while she held the lines for him to tie. "And must I leave this paradise!" she ex- claimed. Then came the memory of the deso- late home-the orphan group, and wiping away her tears, she joined her friends; and very grate- ful did she feel for the kindness which offered them a home in their orphanage. A kind friend wished to adopt one of the brothers. The other, with the sisters, was soon quietly settled in the house of their kind guardian. People said, "The Harwoods have taken quite a charge upon themselves, a great responsibility. How I pity poor Mrs. Harwood."  But Ellen Harwood did not need their pity, as her bright, sunny face very plainly told. The voice which said, "Take these children and train them for me, and I will give thee thy wages," also said, "My grace shall be sufficient for thee." Five orphan children looked up to her for guidance, but her family circle was not yet com- plete. Florence and Ida were of the same age, and now that Ida was away, Florence very natu- rally filled her place. Little Fred was a fine boy of ten years. His sister Nelly, but two years younger, just the age of little Jane. How people stared when an infant of only a' few months was added to the circle.   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      67 "What can Mrs. Harwood be thinking of, to take such a task as the rearing of that helpless child," said her dear five hundred friends." We suppose it was pleasure, the pleasure of doing good, and well we know in after years this gave way to a heart-felt love for the beautiful lit- tle creature, whose every action was so full of grace. Little Queen Bess, as she was called in the home where she found a temporary rest, was the pet of the household. She was named Ellen Harwood, and had she indeed been the child of Mrs. Harwood, she could not have been loved more fondly, nor cared for more tenderly. She was a mischievous little miss. The young ladies' work-baskets were turned topsy-turvy as often as her busy fingers could find them; mamma's fared no better. Closets and drawers were regulated in a hurry when she found the way into them. When Mr. Harwood's desk chanced to be left open for a moment, Miss Ellen held a jubilee. When he returned and found every pigeon-hole and drawer emptied, and notes, deeds, and parchments of every description scattered in confusion upon the floor, he felt a little annoyed, it must be confessed; but when the fair, dimpled hands caught hold of his own, and the red lips were lifted for a kiss, he could not resist the little pleader, and with a kiss, and a gentle rebuke, would send her away.   68    THE HARWOQDS; OR, CHAPTER   XII. The words which thou hast uttered Are of thy soul a part, And the good seed thou hast scattered Is springing from the heart. WHTTIER. WmrTLF time is flying so swiftly and pleasantly on, at Harwood Cottage, Misses Ida and Kate are storing their minds with treasures richer than gold. Letters came frequently; at first filled with longings for home, but gradually assuming a more charitable air, the school, their studies, and their beloved preceptress were oftener men- tioned. "I wish you could know Mary Lyon," Ida wrote in one of her letters to her mother. "She is so different from most women.  She is not beautiful, nor particularly graceful, but so superior to everybody else. She seems like an angel, in goodness, and I never approach her without feel- ing humbled, as if in the-presence of a superior being. Yet she is kind, and familiar with us all. We all love her very dearly.  I do not think,   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      69 t among the four hundred, students, she has an enemy. She is constantly holding before us the purest, holiest motives to excel. "Many have given their hearts to the dear Sa- viour. Among them are, I trust, your Ida, and dear cousin Kate. A great many missionaries have gone to heathen lands from this school, and many more are scattered about as Christian teachers. She seems to inspire every student with an ardent desire to do good.  Blessed Mary Lyon, we will try to imitate her example, and yours, my more than mother. How much I am indebted to your teaching for what I now am.  Had it not been for your kindness, my dear parents, I shudder to think what I might have been.  With my earnest, impassioned nature, what snares awaited me as a desolate orphan. Yet you took me to your home and hearts. May my Father in heaven reward you for your kindness. My future life shall speak of my gratitude to you." Mrs. Harwood shed many happy tears while reading this letter. "I am already amply repaid for my toil," she said to her husband. "If I have been enabled to imprint upon her young mind these holy lessons, she, in turn, will influence others, and thus the circle of influence will be widening to all eternity.'   70    THE HARWOODS; OR, A few weeks later she received a tear-stained letter from Ida. The beloved teacher was dead; yet her mantle had fallen upon scores of young disciples, and the influence of her holy teachings seemed to pervade the entire seminary. It was evening-a fair autumnal evening and the vine-leaves, which twined around the pillars of the verandah, wore those gorgeous hues which so surely betoken decay. The last rays of the setting sun had scarcely died away from the brilliantly variegated foliage of the distant forest-trees, and a rich, crimson flush rested over every object. The merry dancing feet, which had been so busily pattering about all day, were still, and Ellen Harwood had just come from the bed- side of the little sleeper, who seemed, even in her dreams, not to forget to be happy, for the rosy lips were half parted in a beautiful smile. Occasionally a strain of music, from the piano at which Florence was sitting, stole out upon the verandah where Mr. and Mrs. Harwood sat watch- ing the sunlight die away, and the shadows come creeping over the earth, just as they had done ten years ago. Ellen Harwood looked still young and beautiful, and George scarcely a year older. How quickly ten years have gone by," said Mr. Harwood. "Do you remember it is just ten S:-;; r. ,    THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      71 years ago, Ellen, since we sat - looking out upon the summer night from the old farm-house, when we wished old father Time would give us a short respite?" Yes, I remember it very well," said Ellen; "how much has occurred within those ten years. How many vacant places at the firesides of my beloved friends; and when I look around me, upon the little paortals I am training for eternity, it seems more like a dream than a reality." "I fear the care is quite too much for you, Ellen; you certainly can have no reason to complain of want of opportunities to do good now." "No; yet I am far happier, with all my cares, than I ever was before. I seem to be living to some purpose now. I have been thinkingof the little brother of our dear Ellen. What a pity they should be separated, since there are only two of them, and they would love each other so well." Mr. Harwood looked up with a wondering smile into her face. cShall we take the little fellow, Ellen? Your cares are already too great, I fear. Six children are quite a charge for one of your delicate health; yet, if you wish it, we will take him. I shall only have to furnish " C    72    THE HARWOODS; OR, funds, while all the burden will come upon you." "One more cannot make much difference. If you are willing, we will take him, though I fear we shall never love him as we do her." So the little brother was sent for; and inno- cent childhood is so beautiful and interesting, that we will leave him to make his way into the hearts, whose wealth of love, although so lav- ishy bestowed, is yet not all given to the happy children of Harwood Cottage. "I believe our family is complete now," said Mrs. Harwood. "Ida will be home soon, and then we shall have nothing to wish for." "I don't know," said Mr. Harwood. "These young misses will soon fancy they can find a bet- ter home, I fear; how is it, Miss Florence?" But Miss Florence protested; that she could not or would not desire a happier home than she already possessed. "Add, atpresent, if you please, my dear," said Mr. Harwood. "Now, I am not so selfish as to believe that I shall always be able to keep my pleasant family circle together; but it seems I may dismiss my fears for the present." "We must not love these little ones too well," said Ellen, as she looked out upon the verandah where they were engaged in their innocent diver- : .   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      73 sions. "I would not dare to love them better, were they really my own. But see, it is time for evening prayer." The Bibles were brought, and the evening lesson read, and then every knee was bowed before God, while the father called upon his name, and supplicated blessings upon them all. Will those holy lessons ever be forgotten? Many times, in after years, will the hearts of those children turn back to this family altar, and the influences here thrown around them will be like a guardian angel in their pilgrimage, shield- ing them from the power of temptation, and guiding their footsteps to the land of rest. 7   74    THE HARWOODS; OR, CHAPTER XIII. Nor need we power nor splendor, Wide hall, nor lordly dome; The good, the true, the tender- These form the wealth of home. MRS. HALE. THE stage-coach rolled up to the gate of Har- wood Cottage, one bright afternoon in midsum- mer, trunks were let down, and familiar faces looked out from the windows upon the merry group of children who were playing among the shrubbery; then there was a scampering of little feet to see which would be the first to be r the good news to the kind mother, that Ida and cousin Kate were come home at last. It was a happy reunion. No one would have imagined, had they witnessed the heart-felt greetings, that they were not real brothers and sisters-that these were all foster-children of the kind parents who bestowed upon them such unwearying love and care. It was very late that night before Ida Harwood re- tired to rest, there was so much to be talked abouti; so many changes had occurred in her long absence; and on her part, Mount Holyoke was such an interesting topic for the little ones   THE  SECRET OF HAPPINESS.     75 that, when the hour came for them to retire, they must have a promise of more stories for the mor- row. The arrangement of this excellent school is indeed worthy the attention of every one. "Order is Heaven's first law," would be learned at Mount Holyoke if anywhere. Each student is required to labor one hour of every day, and thus all the domestic work of the entire seminary is perform- ed, and the students go to their studies withi re- newed energy after this hour of relaxation, while, at the same time, they are laying the foundation of a good domestic education. There is no hur- ry, no confusion; the most perfect order and neat- ness reign everywhere.       , The graduates of Mount Holyoke go forth into the world with a true view of the responsibilities of life. Ida Harwood returned to her home much improved in mind and person. She found a ready field of usefulness on her return, in the large family of orphans who were gathered there. "We must relieve our kind mother of the care of this great 'family as much as possible," she said to cousin Florence in the morning. "I have tried to do all in my power," said Florence, "but am glad enough yodihave icme to assist me. Now she must rest."   76    THE HARWOODS; OR, "Nelly and I will take care of the little ones," said little Jenny, "won't we Nelly?" "Yes, certainly-besides we must help Ann in the kitchen, she is so kind and patient with us all." While these plans were making among the young people, Mrs. Harwood sat in the adjoin- ing room and overheard the whole, although they did not know she was near. She stepped silently out and joined her husband in the garden. "Our children are laying large plans for making themselves useful, and relieving me from care, and I thought it might embarrass them to find me so near, so I have come out to walk with you." "Your company is always welcome, Ellen. It has troubled me to see you so much confined of late, and, now that Ida and Florence are both home, you must give yourself more leisure. "Well, I have been busy, to be sure; the care of so large a family is no trifling task, but I have been far happier than ever before. It is so pleas- ant to think that I am living to some purpose- tht, when I lie down on my dying bed, I shall not think ' I have lived in vain.'" "How few people understand what is the true of happiness, Ellen; every one is searching o .t;. and in every imaginable way, but how   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      " many find it? I would like to ask the hundreds who pass us daily in the mad pursuit, if they succeed. Not one in one hundred, I fear, would answer in the affirmative." "I would be one of the few then, George. I believe it is this, A clear conscience--the con- sciousness that we are in the discharge of every known duty. Some people say it is a contented mind; but a contented mind springs from this consciousness, I believe. Outward circumstances cannot make us happy.  The spring is in the heart. Yes, and how much trouble and vexa- tion people would spare themselves, if they onily would think of this." "Few people would believe, Ellen, with all your cares, that you could be so happy as when you had none, comparatively. I believe that passage, 'It is more blessed to give than to receive,' has been literally fulfilled in our case. The pleasure of doing good is certainly one of the purest we enjoy." "How I wish I could persuade many of our friends of this," said Mrs. Harwood.: '" ey have wealth and leisure, and how mu they might accomplish. The C s ad TDs,^for instance. Their life seems to be a e^cp:  rivalry to outvie each other in dressi uruilf,: equipage, etc. What pleasure can hiere be ,i ?   78    THE HARWOODS; OR, lrinning, in such a contest? Then there are the Ras, who are straiinng every nerve to give their showy daughters the most fashionable education. Poor girls, I can but pity them.  They are heartless, superficial beings, and entirely unable to make themselves or their parents happy. The T s, too, of a little lower class to be sure, but constantly straining to appear higher than they really are, they neglect the means of happiness within their power. It would be amusing, were it not a melancholy indication of a weak and perverted mind, to hear them constantly hinting at their 'high connectins,' 'high blood,' 'gen- teel family,' etc. It seems such a pity, when everybody may be happy, to see people wasting time, talent, wealth, and all, in the pursuit of a mere phantom." "Very true, Ellen; happiness is not so coy a being as she is represented-but' look! there is '-i happy group, I am sure." In the yard adjoining the garden the children were at play. Miss Jenny was sitting upon the green turf, with a demure, matronly air. The li! ones were in her charge, and she felt her responsibility. Nelly Chambers came bounding ,down the walk, her cheeks flushed with exercise, l her glorious black eyes sparkling more bril- liantly thman ever. She had been gathering a   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      79 wreath of flowers, which she placed upon the head of little Queen Bess, and her majesty acknowledged the favor with the sweetest smiles, and the most unheard-of attempts at articula- tion. The little brother, only a year older than herself, had been tumbling upon the grass, for her special gratification, until he was very red in the face, and was- glad enough to sit down by her side and admire the flowers, too. "Happy creatures," said Ellen Harwood, as, after watching their gambols for a while, they returned to the house. If we were writing a work of fiction, kind reader, we might, with the material before us, work out a very interesting denouement; but, fortunately, or unfortunately, as you may deem it, our'story is one of real life. Mr. and Mrs. Harwood are yet young. Time has left scarce a trace of his presence on the sunny brow of Ellen Harwood, and he has dealt quite as generously by her husband. Keep the heart young, and you will never grow old; but cankering care and covetousness plant many a furrow on the brow of youth. We cannot even wind up our; story with the usual finale of a wedding; for, although it is a generally admitted fact, that there are no  fairer maidens, in the country round, than the   80    THE HARWOODS; OR, !'raceful Ida, the beautiful Florence, and the pretty Kate, we believe they are, as yet, fancy free. We wish we could speak with as much confi- dence of Miss Ida; but there are certain suspi- cious-looking bouquets, packages of books, music, etc., constantly arriving at Harwood Cottage, and occasionally a stately-looking gentleman from a neighboring city calls, to see how Miss Ida is pleased with the books, music, etc., we suppose. 'Be that as it may, the little people, with whom Ida stands next to the beloved mother, look rather suspiciously at the stranger, and even venture a hint that the gifts will prove rather costly if dear Ida must go to the giver.   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.       81 CHAPTER    XIV. "Each the other's love possessing, Say what care should cloud that brow. She will be to thee a blessing, And a shield to her be thou!" A YEAR has rolled by since we commenced our story, gentle reader; a year bringing, to thou- sands of homes, sorrow, and desolation, and death; to as many more, light, and joy, and gladness. Oh, what a world of -happiness, or misery, is sometimes garnered in that brief space of time. To the Harwoods it had been a year crowned with blessings; fraught with cares, to be sure, to the noble, self-sacrificing wife and mother; but these were so sweetened by the consciousness that the beautiful children, who clustered like olive-plants around her table, were growing up in "the nurture and admonition of the Lord"-- were being fitted to act well their part in the great battle of life-that no cloud of frbtfuliess or repining was ever permitted to rest upon her snowy brow. But "There is no household, howe'er watched and tended, )  But hath one vacant chair."   82    THE HARWOODS; OR, A "vacant chair" was about to be left in the happy home-circle at Harwood Cottage. The fears of the "little ones" are not altogether groundless, and it begins to be whispered pretty loudly among them, that, when the first spring flowers begin their blossoming, Ida will leave them for her city home. The long-expected day came at last; but we will not tarry at the wedding to tell how sweetly the young bride looked in her simple yet elegant attire, as she gave her hand where she had long ago given her heart; nor of the leave-takings, although they were sad and. tearful enough; nor of the great vacancy in the home-circle which all felt so keenly, but none liked to spealf aout. We will only say, that seldom has a ' bridal bark" been launched upon the matrimonial sea, with a richer freight of prayers and blessings. Let us take a peep at them in their happy home. The bridal tour has passed, and A few weeks of quiet home-happiness have succeeded; and- now they may be considered as fairly launched upon that sea, whereon so many a gay and glittering bark has been wrecked forever. We may stop a while and look about the beau- tiful garden and shrubbery which surround her , cottage home. The noise and bustle of the city dnoti noy one here.   THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS.      83 Within, evidences of luxury and refinement meet us at every step; but the brightest object we perceive is the happy, beaming face of the fair young mistress. "Are you happy, Ida?" "Perfectly happy," she answers, with her bright, glowing smile; and, as we look about the little paradise she calls home, and note the devoted kindness with which her husband regards her, we mentally exclaim, '( May it only prove as lasting' as it is beautiful." Amid all the happiness which surrounds her, Ida turns with a yearning tenderness to " the loved ones at home." A visit from Mrs. Har- wood is dearly prized, and the younger members of the family find a warm welcome when permit- ted to visit sister Ida at her beautiful home. When Mr. and Mrs. Harwood look around upon thework of their hands-when they con- trast the; busy life which they are now enjoying, with the ease and luxury of former years, a spirit of calm, quiet thankfulness fills their hearts. When the Master shall come " to gather up his jewels" at the last, will not these reca d  ones shine as stars in the "crown of their re- joicing," and a voice of heavenly music whisper, "Inasmuch as ye did it unto the least of one of these, ye did it unto me"     
         
       
   
