
    ----CITATION----
        Seals, A. B.. Rockford .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7718
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Rockford 
            
               1   L4 t   {/

, 7=7A~

BY A. B. SEALS.

"-- ------,1

ATLANTA, GEORGIA:
FRANKLIN PRINTING I-OUSE.
WOOD, HANLEITER, RICE &amp; CO.
1881,
H4.

4

'11

.                                                     ,

F
r
fr
r
,.?
_F.
,  "    fs6

.y       t
*    .         t
'  °,                  /
"         ,(!
*a  .,, .

v


V

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1861, by
A. B. SEALS,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Northern District o
Georgia.
4      n,           \

v
,oF   "
'

(

H'"
i
L
S     t
F    F
r
i

c          cNr
''r=

ROCKFORD.
CHAPTER        I.
WE are all creatures of impulse, guided in the main
by our passions, whims and caprices. The human mind
N is so constituted that it requires a certain quantity of
aliment, like the physical system, to sustain and keep it
upon its proper balance. That pabulum must be gar-
nered from the great field of literature, which blooms
and blossoms in every nation of the civilized globe.
Like the pilgrim in search of Truth, the neophyte of
learning is puzzled to find a shrine at which he may
worship and receive the signet which will serve as a
passport into the Temple of Fame. What the unhappy
pilgrim had considered as Truth in his own country, was
so different from that crowning virtue of mortals in oth-
er regions, that his heart sank within him, and he girded
his loids afresh, rebuckled the sandals upon his weary
feet, and retraced the space of his fruitless journey until
the minarets and spires of his own village gladdened his
eyes once more. The taste of our people is so different,
that it behooves the writers of romances to introduce


4                   ROCKFORD.
scenes into their works which may please all classes' of
society ; even then, the more fastidious may heap coals
of fire upon the heads of the innocent authors.
True, there, is a great diversity of2-.pinion existing in
the minds.of individuals, ,even, who are competent judges
of literature, as to what constitutes true merit. That is
just and proper. If their minds ran in the same smooth,
unruffled channel, the mass of readers would become dis-
gusted with the easy path they tread, and retire from a
race in which there are no competitors. It is controversy
that brings truth to light, and fashions out the safest
plan for the government of all social bodies. Like the
rays of incidence and reflection, which move always in
e sal angles though in different directions, the champi-
ons pon the arena of debate divest every question df
its surplus proportions, and erect a model which is
pleasing to every one; or each party creates a system
of principles which has its own admirers.
As there is a marked difference in the opinions of
wise legislators upon the systems of government, -so
there is a diversity in the minds of those who write
novels, plays, and books of amusement. The works of
fiction, of late years, are masked batteries, from which
the authors assail the public in every conceivable formal
The religion of particular sects is ridiculed and put to
tVie blush after a style ,so ludicrous, that the members
are soften tempted to renounce their faith and adopt
dome other creed. It is not to be doubted, that the
loose writers of French romances have prepared the
way for every revolution which has deluged the streets

ROCKFORD.

5

of Paris with blood, for the last hundred years. But
scribblers will write, and- even a starving population
will buy and read books. If the best talent of the
country is not engaged in writing histories, essays, or
romances of a legitimate literary. character, the legions
,of small fry, who have no higher aspirations than to
amuse the giddy crowd for a brief hour, are filling our
book-stores . with their worthless trash which is daily
corrupting the morals of our youth, thus paving the
way for the subversio ' and dethronement of reason.
How shall this thing be guarded against? Tl de-
plorable system cannot be changed, except by the force
of education and right reason. Teach a boy that the
unequalled romances of Walter Scott are not to be laid
aside for the lascivious productions of Eugene Sue, or
the startling tales of horror which have rendered Alex-
ander Dumas so noted, and you place him in the right
path to avoid insurmountable obstructions in his literary
pilgrimage. The masses of mankind.cannot be taught
in a single day or a year; but a series of years spent b
yea;yarspen              y,
the educators of youth may effect a great change in this
matter.
The appearance of so many new novels of late years
from writers unknown to fame, will tempt many inexpe-
rienced 4thors to soar in' o realms of ether bright, but
their own leaden weight will bring them down upon a
level with terrestrial things. If a book without merit
forces its way into polite circles, the eager crowd iray
. , .
read it; but the condemnation of wise critics will soon
consign it to the shades of oblivion. Criticism is a.

4

:!
r
i
7 '

N


6

ROCKFORD.

sharp lancet which is admirably adapted to the work of
draining off sup'erfluous fountains, yet it often kills an in-
nocent victim. The English and Scotch Reviewers sent
-so many shafts into the ranks of MISTAIgENDOM, who
.were trying to force a passage into the Temle of Fame,
that none but the valiant and true in the.palmy days of
Byron, Scott and Moore, were permitted to climb high
up the hill of the Muses.
If a romance is not intended to, instruct, as well as
amuse the reader, it is written in vain. There are but
.few authors 'who are capable of spinning out a tale by
merely giving narrations,-after the pleasing style of the
old class of writers, therefore-a variety of characters
must be introduced to cater to the taste of the multitude'.
The monotone of a reader renders his hearers weary and
uneasy; yet the musical modulations of a well-trained
voice fall upon the attentive ears of an eager .auditory
like the thrilling chimes ofggolen bell. The descrip-
tion of a beautiful landscape would not be so charming
if the writer should draw ;the picture of no rugged
mountains and desolate heaths. A beautiful, clear rip-
pling brooks as it rushes- heedlessly and playfully along
over its pebbly bed, gladdens the eye and freshens the
grove; but the very flocks and herds loathe and fly
from a sluggish, turbid pool. It is contrast that renders
beauty more sublime, and variety scatters all the flowers
of the wrest in our paths; even the kingdom of Flora
would bloom in vain if the hedges were planted alone
with roses or lilies.' The sensitive plant, which shrinks
from the touch and closes its tiny leaves wlen the rough

I

ROCKFORD.

7i

winds visit them too freely, has no sweet flower, but
every model of grace and beauty exists in its slender
form. It is not to be-excluded from the garden, for it
is a sweet sister to the flowers. They look more beau-
tiful by its side, and they protect and"guard it from
harm.a                                  a
I propose to write a novel, not after the style of
trashy authors, whose existence is only ephemeral, but
one which may interest and instruct the reader. The
abuse of no religious sect will find a place in these pages.
If the work has merit, the public will soon discoverit ;
if it has none, it will share the fate of thousands of
others which were written only to gratify the whim of
the authors. Like the author of Gil Blas, I respectfully
ask a perusal of -this work. The reader may remember
the fVble that the author relates in the opening chapter
of that masterly work.

4_

0


8              ROCKFORD.
)H

CHAPTER 'II.

THE moon shines so brightly, -my dear," said Mr.
Rockford to his wife, as he made preparations for an
evening walk, "that I have an inclination to step over
to t  village hotel and spend an  hour in conversation
with our friend ,
"Lo6k! Mi. ockford, how the baby smiles upon you.
Do you not hear him say, 'Papa'? iHe, extends his lit-
tle hands for you to take him. Do remain' with us this
beautiful.Winter evening. There is such a pleasant,
bright fire burning.in the grate, and the hall looks so
comfortable."
Mr. Rockford excused himself, and promising to re-
turn by ten o'clock,. hurried from the house, and was
soon walking briskly in the, direction of the principal
square of the town. - Mrs. Rockford kissed the rosy
cheeks of Sebastian more than once, and standing him
upon the marble slab which supported a 'costly mirror,'
she pressed her darling to her bosom as he endeavored
to strike his own beautiful image reflected from the,
crystal surface of the glass. Sebastian was a promising
little boy of two years of age. His light auburn ring-
lets clustered in many a curl about his well shaped head.
Hisbluie eyes made his mother glad, when they beamed
upon her with an expression of intelligence so far be-
yond one of his age.

n J
Ir

ROCKFORD.

i

4,

r+
¢r
C
hp
A
7
:Z
r7
r,

"Bless mother's little darling ; she would not take
the world for him. Kiss mother, and then get down.
upon the carpet and play with Jupe."
Jupe was a little white woolly fice, which had been so
much petted, that he considered no place about the
house too sacred for him to enter, Whe sofa and rock-
jing-chairs were occupied by this dinjinutive specimen of
the canine race, whenever it pleased him, to take a nap.
Jupe was never satisfied'when little Sebastian was out
of his sight. Sebastiar1 returned his love with all the
ardor that an affectionate child is capable of possessing.
When Jupe would play too freely with Sebastian's toys,
or -throw down his block houses and run off with his
ivory rattle, the boy would chase, and jfle*k him with
his whip. Jupe had too much sense or did not care to
hurt Sebastian; but as dogs are not mire patient of ill
treatment than humaji beings-are, Jupl became nervous
when Sebastian bit his soft velvet ears to  ard, and
never failed to give him an unlucky snap upon the fin-
gers. Sebastian wogld run: to his mother, crying, with
many bitter complaints against Jupe. - She, upon occa-
sions of that kind, would order tupe to be moderately
chastised, and sent to his kennel in disgrace.
"Here, Jupe," said Mrs..iRockford, 'as-she stood,.Se-
bastian down upon the floor, " come and play with
darling."
Jupe barked immoderately, and playfully bit-$ebas-
tian upon .his leg. They were soon rolling over and
over upon the floor, -while Mrs. Rockford beheld the
scene with much delight. Her happinessseemed to be


ROCKFORD.

ROCKFORD.

concentrated in the boundless love she entertained for
herson. She almost idolized him, and yet her love for
her husband was nQt in the least diminished by its being
divided with Sebastian. All the wealth of Golconda,
added to the priceless pearls of the ocean, are not so
dear-in a parent's eyes as a lovely child. 'Thus thought
Mrs. Rockford, as she seated herself before the glowing
grate, with the household pets playing at her feet. She
was a lovely woman, capable of rendering a household
happy and sharing the felicity herself. She was indus-
trious and prided herself in arranging and putting every
thing in its proper place. The piano was dressed off
with a costly covering, embroidered by her own fingers-
A green, vine formed the border of this magnificent
piece of her handiwork. In the center was a vase of
flowers, and numerous devices filled the space. The
embroidered mats for the lamps were not the least
attractive ornaments of the'center-table, and the willow
basket, filled with Sebastian's toys, was beautified with
numerous enmblems wrought in: crewel. These were only
sa few of the fruits of hei' accomplishments and industry.
It is generally supposed that women are unhappy
because the greater portion of their time is spent within
doors, but such is not the case. They have a thousand
things to interest them which are not attractive to men.
A woman will sit for weeks, axd labor with her needle;
embroidering a pair of uihdersleeves or a single cambric
handkerchief. When Mrs. Rockford was not employ.
ing her time in reading, or playing with Sbastian, its
was thus that she amused herself.. She rang a little

10o

;;
s

'1

kT
i 4*
av

11

brazen bell that lay upon the mantel, and Lucinda, Ethe
housemaid, entered. Lucinda brought the work-basket,
which was filled with the scraps of many samples of
domestic goods. Placing thebasket by her side, this
industrious lady commenced selecting some of the latest
styles which were to - form the squares of a quilt for
Sebastian's bed. Being satisfiedwith the selection of
colors, she commenced cutting the pieces intodiminutive
squares, triangles and crescents. If the manufacture
of quilts is' considered a waste of time, it is truly a
great saving of rags. It would be but liglt employ-
ment, indeed, for a lady to make enough quilts for a
whole community,' if it were only requisite for her to
cut the different goods into pieces of the length of the
quilts, and sew them together. The good ladies ought
to have -their own way about their household affairs.
Let them cut their cloth into as many fairy-like sec-
tions as they please, and stitch in rose, lily or japonica
patterns.
But Sebastian was not of this opinion, pr was Jupe;
or at least their actions indicated it, for they rose from
the floor as if by mutual consent, and made an attack
upon the good lady's' basket. The boy emptied it upon
the floor and commenced selecting the scrips of the
brightest colors, before his mother was aware of his
intentions. Jupe seized several bits of cloth, regardless
of their whiteness; with his tiny sharp teethadran
to his usual safe retreat under the sofa.  He was so
fairy-like in his physical proportions, that he could
occupy a very small space. Lucinda had uponseveral


12

ROCKFORD.

occasions tried to eject him from his lurking place. The
sofa was so shaped that its frame work almost rested
upon t e floor. Jupe effected his entrance to this safe
asylum    a small aperture between one of the legs and
slabs of essofa. It was necessary to remove the sofa
in order to rest the miscreant. Jupe had sense enough
to know this; besides he was- all pluck, and ifhe took
it into his head to withstand a siege he would maintain
his position and remain in his impregnable fortress from
the rising of the sun to the going down thereof.  Se-
bastian ran all over the room, scattering his' trophies,
while Jupe applauded him by keeping up a continual
g     barking.
Lucnda was ordered to gather up the scraps, and
place them beyond the reach of Sebastian. The ser-
vant did as she was directed, and Sebastian was upon
the eve of receiving a slight chastisement for his con-,
duct, when his mother remembered that he would relate
everything to his father when he came home. Mr.
Rockford was not, favorable to the rigid training of
children, believing that a child should be taught the
enormity of an offence before the punishment is inflict-
ed. The mother laid aside her work for the balance.of
the evening, and ordered her basket put away. She
,was in no mood to proceed with her work, nor could
she have done so to advantage, .,for Jupe had dome of
her select scraps in his saf keeping. She knew he
would stay under the sofa for hours to come. The wai'
had been waged, and he was not yet willing to surrender
Mrs. Rockford readily forgave her child, but poor Jupe

ROCKFORD.                   13
must suffer in the flesh when sheshould lay her hands
upon him.' She. smoothed the dishevelled ringlets of
her darling, kissed his coral lips, and took him in her
arms and sang him to sleep.
How blessed is that happy mother who has an angel
sleeping in her arms ! An innocent child is the true
type of those celestial beings, whose dwelling place is
Paradise. If a child. has the germs of sin within it,
the commencement of its trangressions is not co-eval
with its birth. Angels guard the slumbers of infants,
and fan their cheeks with snow white wings. Sebastian
slept the sweet sleep of happy childhood. His mother
unloosed his tiny fingers from her neck, around which
his arms had clung as if for protection, and gently
placing him in his little bed, covered him up carefully.
Taking a book from the center-table, she sat down to
read until the .return of her husband.
When Mr. Rockford left his stately mansion to walk
to the town, the iinon shone brilliantly and the pebbly
walks resounded beneath.hismanly tread. The steeples
of the churches and the dome of the town hall reflected
the silvery rays of the orb of night from their metallic
coverings. Crofton was a quiet, nice town, and possess-
ed an intelligent population, noted for integrity, sobriety
and industry. In the business season the place had a
bustling, commercial-like appearance. It wasa seaport.
whose harbor admitted ships of light tonnage. Situated
at the mouth of a navigable river, which had its source
in the upland districts of the State, the commodious
ware-rooms were the recipients of the staple produce of

I.,

IV
t
f4' 4
J'wV t6
s'

}  iq

/-


the country. Besides, the place was considered very
healthy, and was frequently resorted to by those in
search of a quiet retreat.. The waves of the Atlantic
dashed against the base, of the steep bluff upon which
the town stood, and the ears of ,the citizens had learned
to love the harmonious echoes of the moving billows.
Mr. Rockford approached the square upon which the
principal hotel was located, and was proceeding quietly
along the walk when his attention was arrested by the
appearance of a largeycrowd assembled at the corners
of the street. He approached the assemblage and en-
quired the cause of the excitement. One of the citizens
told him that a murder had just been committed by a
desperate character, and, one of the most inoffensive, -
upright men in Crofton was the unfortunate victim.
The citizens had assembled for the purpose of consid-
ering the propriety of taking the law in their own hands,
and dealing out summary punishment to the offender.
Mr. Rockford was a good man, and having practiced
law in Crofton many years, his views upon all subjects
were duly respected. He was instantly importuned by
those present, to speak to the infuriated citizens, and,
if possible, to induce them to respect the supremacy of
the law. He responded to their call, and mounting the
steps of one of the stores, admonished them not to
abuse the privileges they then enjoyed as law-abiding
and God-fearing men. He said it was true that one of
the best men in the community had fallen by the hands
of a desperate man, yet he, was in safe custody, and
they had laws which ought' truly to be executed ; hut

14

L r

{{{C    n
!   .J
. .;
x ,
i; 'tt
t
t+.
i;
C
s;
rc
g''
£   ti
;,
.,'

I'

I

.RKF15O m
the Statutes of the State pointed out the plan by which
hey should be enforced.
The citizens were induced to pursue the course point-
9d out by Mr. Rockford, and the assembly adjourned
to the Court House, where the case was legally=.disposed
of. The jury of inquest having made up their verdict
against the prisoner, the proof before the Court was
conclusive, after the examination, of three witnesses.
The prisoner was sent to jail under the charge of mur-
dr.  Mr. Rockford sought his peaceful and happy
home, rejoicing that he had been the instrument of
preserving his community from the stigma of a desper-
ate act about to be committed by the irated, but well
meaning citizens.

ROCKFORD.

ROOKFORD

.  ;
t ' ,
'  3
;,
4:
4
r
"
v at "    +
r    i,  i     '
}
.  Kft
,F
''
j
l


16             ROOKFORD.

CHAPTER III.

IT was a' custom indulged in by Sir Walter Scott to
rise early and take long morning walks while he was
engaged in the composition'- of any one of his great
works: He supposed that his mind was free from care
at such times, and his solitary rambles lent that beauty
and vigor to his compositions which are seen in the
writings of' no other authors. The human mind is so
constituted that it requires rest, exercise, and indul-
gence. Being a philosopher by nature, this great man
knew that the mind; like the body, would be exposed to
the ravages of decay, without fresh pabulum  to feed
upon. He would stand for hours and indulge his fancy
in beholding the silvery sheets of water pour over the
rough ledges of rock, and unite again in the bosom
of the soft rippling stream. Coleridge composed the
"Rime of the Ancient Mariner" during' a pleasant
evening excursion. Lord Byron would never have writ-
ten the unequalled poem of "Childe Harold," if his foot-
steps had never wandered beyond the limits of his
native country. As sweetly as his liquid verse flows in,
melodious streams; he confessed that it was quite difli-.
cult for him to compose, unless he was very familiar
with his subject, and at such times as his, mind was
completely under his control. Shelley had a peculiar

ROCKFORD.i
fancy for sail boats. If he,was not indulging his fond-
ness for this sport in sailing across the lake, he would,
when fatigued with labor, hasten to the water side, and,
child-like, sail diminutive boats near the 'shore. It is
related of him,' that he. was. so fond of constructing
ships and sail boats out of paper, that he would tear
leaves from a book however so costly. Upon one occa-
sion, he. was sitting upon the banks of a river in a
meditative mood. He had left his little boats at home,
and, unfortunately, had no book with him. I'could
not be deprived of his pleasure, and taking out a Bank
bill of considerable value, he fashioned out-a boat and
flung it into the stream.
Napoleon Bonaparte so prepared his mind for labor by
by violent exercise, that he accomplished more in a given
space than any General of modern times. And -if we
except Julius Coesar, who was one of the most accom-
plished scholars among the ancients, the great Napoleon
had no superior. - The periods of history are so strangely
divided by those who are considered competent judges,
that we are in doubt whether it is proper to class Julius
Cosar among the ancients, or not. Some authors face-
tiously speak of events which happened before antiquity
itselfbegan ; but let dates begin or end as the caprices
of men may limit them, Julius Caesar finished the: an-
cient and laid the corner-stone of modern' times, His
history of the Gallic War was composed in 'his camps:
it could not have been written by one, with half the
vigor, who was not a' participator himself in those in-
teresting scenes.

r

J ; St
l rt
z
6£   S
i   !rn
7f
SKgj
f J44
1
Fe
.f
i
l l
e n'S i
6 :
i
t
n
r
ev


18                 ROCKFORD.
Josephus Napoleon BonaparteSnibbenis had a great
fancy for imitating distinguished, men. He imagined
that he was learned, for the reason that he had read
and studied the works of great authors. It was certain
that he had read "Robbins' 'Outlines of History." 'and
"tTooke's Pantheon."  He could discourse eloquently
upon the righty deeds of the Egyptian heroes; and
when he was relating the scenes of the Chines revolu-
tion ,  always 'grew pathetic.  Mr. Snibbens was a
grea an, as most of his patrons and pupils thought.
He had come to Crofton to teach the juvenile portion
of the community, not.only the theories of the learned-
authors, but he intended that the society of. the place
should be improved by his illustrious example.
Early on the morning subsequent to the events related
in the preceding chapter, Mr. Snibbens emerged from
his boarding-house for the express purpose of taking
his usual morning walk. The weather was cool and
bracing, and the white frost glittered upon the ground
like transparent eystals. Buttoning his overcoat, up
to his chin, and straightening up the collar to protect
his ears from the cold, this modern genius directed his
footsteps to the sea-side. He had not proceeded far
when he met John Simpkins, one of the town merchants,
on his way to his place of business.
Good morning, friend Simpkins," said Snibbens, as
he halted for a regular chat, "thisis delightful weather.
Thomson 'gives such glowing descriptions of Winter
mornings, in his poem gn the Seasons, that I am almost
tempted to rehearse a few of the stanzas for your es-
pecial benefit."

-I i.-
hy* .a
wr
1
.N
K .~ li
"        1
fl
x k r
% a V
+' S
ii
1 ±_
1+x
t
+ -E
,U
CC  X  i
c FF
1     "
t 'yy
2
n,'f
t

ROOKFORD.                   19
"Ah ! Mr. Snibbens," replied Simpkins, ''you men of
learning are excellent companions; but a plodding mer-
chant, like myself, is always at a loss to find suitable
words to repay you for your fine display of rhetoric."
Snibbens received 'the compliment with studied af-
fectation, and taking a pinch of -snu, described a
geometrical figure upon the ground with. his walking
stick, gd was on the point of entering upon. a discus-
sion concerning the-properties of angles,-but h was so
anxious to learn the particulars of the murder Oat he
changed his determination n.
"Come, friend Simpkiis," said the erudite pedagogue,
"please relate to me what information you have gathered
relative to the heart-rendig occurrence of last evening,
which," as, I have been informed, has no parallel in the
history of Crofton."  (Here Snibbens took snuff a sec-
ond time, and looked wise.)
"It is true," replied Simpkins, "that it is a deed
which makes one shudder to think.of, yet I have read
of crimes as equally. horrible. dare Royston has been
the terror of this community ever since his dissipation
commenced. A few years since he was an accomplished
clerk in one of the principal business .houses in this
town. He was admired and respected by all who knew
him, and'was considered by his employers as a man of
strict integrity. - For a long time he has led a desperate
life. He was supposed to have been implicated in a
murder committed only a few miles from Crofton, but
sufficient evidence was 'not produced- upon the investiga-
tion to -convict him. Last night he was. creating a


20             ROCKFORD.

disturbance, in the -sitting room of the hotel, where
several, gentlemen were conversing, when' they endeav-
ored to pazify him. He commenced throwing the chairs
about the room,and one of them struck Jonathan Wins-
low. That gentleman remarked that he was peaceable
man, but was not in the least inclined to submit to a
wanton insult. He made no advance upon Royston,
but cautioned him-not to molest him again. Royston
drew  t a pistol and discharged its contents in the
bJeas  f Winslow, who fell and expired in a few min-
utes."
Mr. Simpkins wished Snibbens a very good morning,
and hurried to his store. Snibbens walked down to the
wharf, made a forcible speech to the waves,.snuffed the
sea breeze a few minutes, and retraced his steps to his
boarding-house. When he entered the hall, the jingling
sound of a hand-bell announced that breakfast was
ready. He was -a punctual man in all the relations of
life, but more especially in his attendance at his meals.
He took his accustomed place that morning, if 'not with
a light heart, at least with:a keen appetite.
Samuel Culerhouse, and his tidy wife, subsisted upon
the profits of entertaining a dozen boarders. Mrs. Cul-
verhouse wore a Swiss muslin cap, bordered with wide
edging of her own knitting. The good dame had a
pair of old-fashioned silver spectacles which had been
the property of her grand-mother. The glasses were
circular, and when she put them on and seated 'herself
beside the coffee urn, she presented a' very ludicrous
appearance. Samuel was dressed in his everlasting suit

I I
S4

L

ROCKFoRD,.                21
of blue jeans, which his darling Dorothy had spun and
woven with her own hands.
"Take a bit of this steak, Mr. Snibbens ? fine steak
-tender steak. I selected it myself," said Samuel, as
""he helped each ones of the boarders to a portion of the
savory dish.
Mr. Sniibens, will you hay  cream and sugar in
your coffee this morning ?" sai  orothy.
If you please, madam," said the learned pedagogue.
"Will you have much sugar in it, Mr. Snibbenss?"
continued the good dame.'
"I am not at all .particular, my dear Mrs. Culver
house," anxiously replied Snibbens, who had given the
identical answers to the same queries every morning,
for three years, in which he had sojourned in the house
of that most excellent woman.
The conversation naturally turned upon the murder
of Jonathan Winslow. Each one had a good word to
say concerning the lamented man, while they all loathed
the very name of Royston. Samuel entertained the
opinion that there'would be but little difficulty in the
conviction 'of Royston, when the case hould come up
for trial. Many murderers had been turned loose upon
that community, he said, because the lawyers had been
ably feed,; and in some instances the jury had been
bribed. - Samuel was not certain of this, but he was
sustained by the boarders, who were not in the habit of
differing materially from tle -opinions as expressed by
the worthy host.
"I knew Winslow well; sir--knew him well," said the

'"i

';4                      t 4   5


2                 ROOKEORD.
hearty Samuel, as he emptied fis fourth cup of coffee,
and helped himself to a fresh supply off buck-wheat
cakes. "A nobler man was never an inhabitant of,
Grofton than he was.' I learn that old Mr. ,Winslow
has employed lawyer Rockford to prosecute the case,
and if he does his duty and brings the powers of his
.mind to act with their  customer vigor, it is not to be
doubted, but that the risoner will be convicted."
"Sramuelmuy darling," said the good house-wife, rais-
ing her massive spectacles from her long Roman nose
and resting them upon the frill of her muslin cap, "is
it the same young Mr. Winslow uho used to drive that
dapple horse by ere last Summer ?"
"You are rightmy dear," saiA the affectionate Sam-
uel. "You are seldom wrong in your surmises, Dorothy.
Mrs. Primrose never made the Vicar of Wakefield a
betterpose than you have been to me.' Have Edith
to bringii some warm cakes from the kitchen."
Samuel knew exactly how to cater to the vanity of
Dorothy. She returned his compliment with becoming
iodesty, but cided hin for being so affectionate before
company.             w     al     so     m    y
"Why, la ! Samuel, what a plain spoken man you
are ! You will make Mr. Snibbens and Miss Jerusha
Smith blush, if you do not qtit using such lioneyful
words to me before them. I asked you question about
Mr. Winslow, and you gave me only a half an answer,
and'wound up by making an appeal for warm cakes."
"Just so my, dear. . 'Variety is the spice of life,' and
cakes are 'the staff of life; and you will please have my
request complied with."

'
1 x
eSr re''
+  x.
%  K?_
.°, i !  r
i'3 4

ROCKFORD.

', ;
t     )
i
'
I
si }
r
".  d-
F
r
v  i
nFF
P
y
_
ifs"
e
5
J
:,tie,
i
f  i
.
r   Q,
F
. ryryl".
r  d  '
' r
s:
;

The good Dorothy had sent Edith.,to the kitchen, to
assist thee cook in prep ring sausages for the second
table, and not desiring to interfere with her own ar-
rangements, she took a dish and tripped off to 'do ,the
behests of her husband. During her. absence, Mr.
Snibbens related his morning's adventures, and expatia-
ted upon the many happy th     hts that arise in the
mind while the body is -mod    ely exercised by a
pleasant ramble. He never forgot to relate, in speaking
of the benefits the mind derives from exercise, that
Napoleon Bonaparte unloosed' the leaden fetters from
his mind, by walking for hours before the camp-fires upon
the eve- of a great battle. Mr. 'SnibAns' had read a
pictorial history of thevFrenchRevol ion.
The mistress of the house having made a successful
trip to the kitchen, returned laden with. some brown
cakes spread with Goshen. butter. The boarders finish-
ed a pleasant meal, and left the host and his spouse to
discuss their plans for the day.
Snibbens went into the hall, sat a few minutes by the
fire, picked his teeth and smoked a cigar. Wheir the
hour for opening school arrived, he went o his chamber
and collected his books which he used at recitations.
He placed a Key to Algebra in one pocket and .a Dia-
mond interlinear, translation of Virgil in the other.
Those were the best friends this .nted teacher had in
the'world, as he overcame many obstructios by making
drafts upon. their oracular 'leaves. ' lie Went to his
school-room, and rang the bell. The boys took their
seats and' applied themselves to their lessons.

M4
'~1'


24             ROCKFORD.

When the class in Virgil was called up to recitation,
three boys sauntered to the stand, each one carrying a
dilapidated edition of the works of the Roman bard in
one hand and a Latin Dictionary ithe other.
"Which is the lesson, James Jones.? 'asked the learn-
ed teacher.
"It commences at t  two hundred and fiftieth line,
second Book of the    id, sii."
"You may commence, James,",said Snibbens.
James took his sweet gum from his mouth and lent it
to the boy who sat next to him, and began his recitation:
"Vertitur interea coelurm-the interior of the heaven
was inverted ; etuit Oceano nox-and the ocean rushed
on to the night ;'bvolens umbra magna terrarnque po-
lunique-overturning the great shade of the earth with
a pole ; Myrmidonum que dolos-with the Myrmidonian
dollars: This translation'did not exactly suit Snibbens,
though he supposed that the boy was not far from being
right.
"Wait a moment, James, until I go into the apparatus
room. I thought I heard something fall."
' Snibbens weitinto the little room, and 'drawing out
his translation, hastily looked over the passage which
James had just read. He placed some of th, retorts
upon different shelves, made'a noise, as if picking up
something from the floor, and having arranged what the
class had supposed was blown down by the wind, he
returned and required James.to translate the sentence
again. The teacher grew very wrathy, and flourishing a
rod over James' head, ordered him to translate it again,

ROOKFORD-                   25
I
but the lazy boy did not improve by, either effort. Snib.-
bens exercised James in a lively manner with the- rod
around his shoulders, waist and legs.
"Listen at the translation I give you of this simple
sentence," said the teacher ; and he gave James one
more cut upon the ankle. "The heavens are, turned
around, and the night rushes from the ocean, envelopiiig
the earth, and the sky, and the  archery of the Greeks
with a great shadow."  Parse ruit, sir."
"Ruit is a verb," said the whining and sobbing boy;"
"of the first conjugation ; from ruo, ruare, ruavi, rua-
turn. Indicative mood, pluperfe'ct tense, third person,
singular number, and agrees with Oceano. A verb must
agree with its nominative case in number and person."
" He is. wrong, Mr. Snibbens," said Joe Bishop,
" ruit is of the third conjugation'"
"I am aw 'e of that, Joe," replied the teacher.
." Bring me her  your dictionary.  How .often must I
point out words to you?' Do you not see as plain 'as
the noseon your  e that it comes from ruo, ruere rui
ruiturn?  Now bri g me here your grammar and let
me show you how to nd it."
Snibbens found lego, and whispered to himself, lego,
legis, legit, legirnus, legitis, legunt, he discovered that
it was found in the indicative mood, present tense, third
person, singular number, and agreed with nox.
'"Take this lesson over again; boys, and if you come
up here again so.deficient I will make you remember
me."
Snibbens was an industrious teacher, who, when he

P,, w,'
y*~3q
4  5' i a i! a
S
ti  v n
'a
='  :

r
1 1
Y
;4      f
S.
4
C  fi*
k  yyy
r  Ce..13.. '^^1
dip)
tlitlrt
°"i  YyY
~


ROCKEORD.

ROCKFORD. -

was masterr of 'a subject, could impart instruction admi2
rably. "Priizus,,secundus, tertius," repeated the boys.
"That is right, now" go to your; seats and study hard.
Remember that 'labor overcomes al difficulties'"
When'ir. Snibbens was bothered and had to refer
to his keys and translations, an excuse was easily
framed for a visit to t  private room.  He made good
pens wrote a fair han , ciphered tolerably well, was a
fluent reader, and made extensive displays with his
magic lantern. Those were the reasons that his pat-
rons, who had not suspected his deficiency, supposed
him :to be a wonderful genius.
The foundation of a -boy's education is frequently
spoiled forever' byjust such teachers as Snibbens5 who
may be found in all communities. They adopt teaching
as a profession, because it is a good stepping-stone to
the law, medicine and divinity. It is often made a sin-
ecure by ignorant men, who succeed in humbugging a
community by artifice; and plausibility of speech.
Mr. Snibbens was as punctual to his business as the
dial is true to the sun; yet he aspired to the knowledge
of sciences and languages, of which he was, entirely
ignorant. The more intelligent- of. the lads, who had
been placed under his literary.guardianship, were cer-
tainthat'his insructions-were not in the least beneficial
to'them.' They' had often hinted their suspicious to
their parents, but a father who hasforgotten the famil-
iar lessons which he learned in his youth, is not 'a proper
judge of the qualifications of a teacher.  Trustees of
academies and high schools are more frequently chosen

on account of their wealth and influence, than for their
literary accomplishments.  Snibbens had maintained
his position unshocked 4nd unshaken against more than
one competitor more ompetent to fill the position than
himself, at several annual meetings of the BOARD. . Ev-
cry one acknowledged that 'Snibbens was a good, clever
man, and it would have been sue a pity to have ejected
him from his position, when the boys liked him so well;
and he was such a nice, hindy 'gentleman to instruct
the 'Sunday School. classes.  No one could raise the
hymns in church better than he could,' and if one of the
neighbors should be taken sick, he was the best hand
to sit up, in the town. He was just the.man who could
have obtained his board in 'a family regardless of com-
pensation, repayig the worthy proprietor of the house
with no, other coin than the pious example he might set
before the children.   '$    -

,j
:r
r
'      S-
s
t
v  C
3 t

r"r
' }
l
'+_
,  ,


ROKFORD.

CHA-PT R TV

IT is related.of-the renowned Gil Bias, that when he
left the parental roof  seek his fortune in the wide,
wide world, his mother bestowed upon him the last shil-
ling she possessed, and shed copious tears at his depart-
ure ; while his father enriched him with his blessing, and
gently pushed him out into the arena of life. The father
often means to bestow a blessing upon a son when he
forces him to buffet the waves. of the sea of life, though
the son may place a' different construction upon the
actions of the father, and accuse. him of cruelty. Be
this as it may, if an individual is compelled to undergo
hardships, and sense is to be learned only in the school
of experience, youth is the proper season to receive such
costly instructions,; for then'Jtheir admonitions will be
lasting.
Mortimer Rockford had been the architect of his own
magnificent fortune, and had worked his way up to the
enviable position' he now occupied, by persevering in-
dustry. His f:f er died while he was a mere boy,
bequeathing to his son only a moderate Competency.
By studied economy his iiother was enabled to procure
subsistence for herself and son. Though the assistance
of friends and his own scanty. patrimony, Mortimer
was enabled to receive a Collegiate education. He-

ROCFORD.                   29
graduated with distinction, and his valedictory was re-
ceived with rapturous applause., His mother welcomed
him back to the cottage with warm embraces and eyes
streaming with the tears of affection. She had often
denied herself the necessaries of life to lay by a small
sum to purchase clothes for her. darling boy. He saw
the world before him as 'the great theatre upon which
was to be enacted the great dram; of life. With a bold
and dauntless heart, he was contented to step upon the
boards and perfo m his part. He had early learned that
life is a commingling of the good and the evil; and
that man; in a great measure, holds the reins of happi-
ness in hi  own hands.
What a strange mortal am I, 'thought Mortimer, if,
with the -inowledge I possess of human nature, and the
modicum of learning that I have gleaned from the in-
structions of wise men, I shall not be enabled to buffet
the waves of any stream upon which my life-boat may
be hereafter cast ? I have only to maintain a firm
position upon any question that presents itself to my
mind, and combat Prejudice and Ignorance with the
weapons of Reason and Common Sense, to obtain the
mastery.
Mortimer had not taken-into consideration that fortune
or position was to be gained by other tian close magage-
ment. Neither of the twain is the result of any certain
plan of action. Menwho have been noted for chicanery,
industry and economy, have as often failed of arriving
at distinction, or been disappointed in the accumulation
of bags'of golden coins, as those 'who have waited for

,

,


3                  ROOKFORD.
the waves ; of prosperity to waft them upon a golden
beach. He had adopted the' law as his professional,
though, his fees had been meager in the beginning, and
at first he was almost denied the means of subsistence;
yet Themis, at times, poured into his. coffers bountiful
showers of gold.
Fifteen years ofincessant labor and toil found Morti-
mer, surely but slowly,'ascending to the topmost round of
the ladder in his profession. He had been a. friend to
the needy, had combatted.and contended- with error in
all its forms and phases, and'Fame was almost within
his grasp.'. He had 'nearly overcome the asperities of
life, had passed the rapids of nin's existence and was
just entering upon the gulf of happiness, when the
floTer ,of his youth was.lbeginning to fade. He was4a
famous lawyer and bade fair to arrive ,at eminence within
a few years, when Miss Josephine Broxton, the belle ;of
the State, enriched him withj her heart ,and hand, and
encumbered 'him with a magnificent dowry.
Mr. iRockford built one of. the most, costly, edifices
that was ever' erected in the environs of Crofton. - It
was in Crofton that he was born and reared, and it was
there that he wished to:pass the remaining years of' .his
life.]. Heaven had-smiled upon and blessed.him, and it
was far from his purpose ' to desert the scenes -of his
childhood. ' Five hundred acres of arable land were at-
tached to his homestpad , and the products sof the labor
of his slaves were more than equal to his expenditures.
Mr. Rockford would have been a mere, madman had hey
not appreciated all those advantages of fortune. He

V

ROCKFORD.

was admired; courted, and almost worshipped by the
good citizens of the place, yet 'he was not vain of the
position he occupied. Honors were showered thick upon
him, yet he bore them with meekness.
His lovely wife was 'many years his junior, yet she
seemed dearer in his eyes; for the discrepancy of age, and
she, as a tender vine, clung still closer to, him for pro-
tection. If she sighed, it was only when he was not
near ; if she grieved, it was at such times as the busi-
ness and cares of life were too onerous for the comfort
of her husband. She had studied his nature, and his
every want was known to her. She had learned to read
the workings of his mind by the expression of his fea-
tures, and he should not have been surprised that all of
his domestic. wants were anticipated.  One year of
domestic bliss glided. by, and Sebastian blessed the
nuptial couch. The house of 'Rockford was gay with
festivities when this lovely child gladdened the hearts of
hi devoted parents. They w'iere now united by a strong
and heavenly tie. The father had an impetus to speed
him still higher ,up the ladder of Fame, and the mother
had a tender infant to, nourish, which might rise up
hereafter and call her blessed.'
Two joyous years passed by, and Sebastian was the
lovely child of Rockford house, as' he appeared upon
the eventful night of the murder of 'Mr. Winslow. His
mother haEdlain him quietlyin his bed and drawn the
coverlids gently over him, and sat down to amuse her-
self by the perusal of favorite book, until the return.
of her husband. She was not.uneasy about Mr. Rock-

x;;
x y,
i       ,
C
l
.i
t
.ti.
z


1ROCKFORD.

ford until the hour of ten bad arrived, aind he cine not-
She had scarcely ever known him to remain- from home
longer than the appointed time for his return. She
turned over the leaves of the book with 'an air of se=
riousndss, as the steady stroke of the pendulum vibrated
upon her ear and forced the obedient-hands of the clock
to move in their accustomed sphere. Eleven o'clock, and
still her husband came not.: She went to the casement
and looked anxiously in the direction of the town. Wea-
ried out by fruitless vigils, she took her seat by the fire
and gave vent to her grief, by a copious shower of tears.
In a short time her husband came. The explanation he
gave for remaining beyond his limited time, relieved her
mind of much anxiety, yet the death of an estimable
citizen was a sufficient cause of her sharing the despon-
dency of her husband. Blessed Josephine! if no deeper
sorrows.ever fall to thy lot than to weep for departed.
friends, thou wilt not share the fortune of those, whom
adversity has marked out for its prey.
The next morning,; while the .Rockfords were seated
at the breakfast-table, the conversation took a turn from
a lisping word which fell from the lips of Sebastian.
He had been dividing his breakfast with Jupe, until the
little dog became impatient of being fed by driblets, and
seized hold of ope of the boy's feet with his teeth, and
playfully bit it,, while Sebastian dealt him a: few hearty
blows with his spoon, declaring in his brolien style. of
speech, that Jupe should sleep' no more in his little sail-
boat.
" Josephine," said Mr. Rockford, "this is a cool,

33

wintry, sunshiny morning. Suppose we take Sebastian
and the nurse, and go upon a sailing excursion."
"Nothing will give me more pleasure than to gratify
you, my husband," said the affectionate wife. "Besides
Sebastian and myself both need exercise and a change
of air. The breeze has just sprung up, and as there
are no indications of a storm, we will set out upon the
excursion as soon as I can prepare a sufficient supply of
provisions for the day."
"You need not tarry for that purpose, my love," said
the husband,.-"the ship Ellen is anchore only a league
from shore, and her commander has giv~n me several
pressing invitations to visit him before he leaves the
port. When once we' have ascended upon the deck of
his ship, I, am, certain we will be close prisoners for the
day.
The preparations for their departure were soon made.
Seated in the pleasure-boat that was kept for the especial
accommodation othe family, the Rockfords were soon
sailing upon the bosom of the Atlantic. Sebastian
would clap his'hands for joy when a porpoise would
emerge from the waves in its rotary evolutions. The
sea gulls would almost strike the sails of the boat with
their snowy wings, as if they were tendering to the
party a joyous welcome to the crested waves.
"Look, Josephine, how small the sails and.hull of the
ship appear in the distance. The wings of that gull that
flew by then, are large in comparison' to the rigging of
the ship, at this distance. Within the space of an hour,
if no, accidents befall us, we. will be upon the deck of
3

p

32

ROOCKFOI D.

iR
O
@L +
-f
RS
k
c
,rti
,a   r
3
NSF


34

ROOKFORD.

that ship which is larger than the castle we have left
behind us."
" True, Mr. IRockford, the pleasures of life,- like the
uncertain future, are -in the distance,. yet we are not
sure of ever having them within, our grasp. A slight
misguidance of the pilot at the helm, a.sudden and un-
looked for storm springing up, and the possibility of
our reaching the ship would be only in the scope of
Omnipotence."
"KBt, Josephine, suppose we should have no faith in
the security of our boat, and entirely distrust the capa-
city of the pilot, would we not despair of reaching the
point of our destination?  Why have we deserted the
land and embarked upon the sea?  You answer, for a
change, and to gratify a mere whim. We live to learn,
and desire to see what we have learned to admire,' from
descriptions of good authors. As young as Sebastian
is, the scenes of this day may never fade from his mind.
His memory as'yet is as a dream; but striking scenes
may 'awake it to a reality.  One hour to a child is as
long as day to an adult. Frequent changes of scenery
are beneficial to them, yet it is better for them to go but
little into he company of strangers."
The breeze blew briskly, and the helmsman performed
his part well. The boat was soonnugly secured along-
side of the ship. In a few jninutes the party ascended
the ship's ladder, and were ushered into the  spacious
saloon. The rockiigof the vessel was at first unpleas-
ant to Josephine, whose voyages had been confined prin-
cipally to the inland~ boat travel and pleasure excursions

-SAS
._56
Ii
t.
=a °'F
,j
Y
4
d A
.I
i
_      r
h
t1 5C
4fi+
ri
S +M'   }
t  x  W

ROCKFORD
along the beach. Sebastian was perfectly amazed to
see so many objects of attraction. The door kuo s,
locks, tippings and dastors- up n the chairs, occupied his
attention. He rolled the single ottomans about, to tie
amusement of the Captain, who took quite a fancy to
him, and had him supplied  with candies and nuts in
abundance. Captain. Walsingham was an old fried
and college-mateof Mr. Rockford's, and had frequently
spent a day with him at Rockford house, while the
Ellen was lying in port.
"My dear Mrs. Rockfordj said the polite Captain.
"it affords mc much pleasure to welcome you and my
friend of former days aboard of my vessel. It is e
pleasure I have long sought and heartily desired. The
best plan that we can conceive of, by which to preserve.
old friendships, is cordial and happy re-unions.
"You are extremely kind, Captain Walsingham.-
The friends of my husband merit my respect.
Mrs. Rockford was'left to amuse herself with Sebas-
tian an hour or two, while the gentlemen went upon
deck. to enjoy fine cigar. Thbe ship maids, who atten-
ded to the ladies' saloon, were directed to pay he=
especial attention and spread the table with luncheon.
Rockford and Captain Walsingham, each, provided with
a spy-glass, a:m used themselves a few minutes in taking
observations='but discovered only a few fishing smacks
and oyster boats
"See those,restless, toiling men;. how they spread
and draw in their nett  How they laugh and shout
when a large quantity of fish is bagged ?  The oyster

iI


v

ROCKFORD.

37

catchers are playing havoc with the mnollusk fribe. One
of the crew has just raised the grapplers from the deep
bed, and another is receiving the huge mass. Large
quantities are produced from one mother shell, around
which they cling until their own. weight breaks them off
into sections."
"Look again," said Rockford in reply to the Captain,
" one of the men has fallen overboard. The waves have
almost washed him from their reach. Now they have
succeeded in throwing him- a line. He is safe among
them again, and they are applying a canteen of spirits
to his lips. What a happy set of fellows they must be ?'
"Yes, indeed," replied the Captain, "they think but
little of the past, and the future to them is not penetra-
ted by hopes or fears. They are 'hale fellows well met,'
who make the most of the present time. I have frequent
visits from men, of this class while lying at anchor in
various ports. They barter large quantities of fish and
oysters to me for provisions. Those men yousee at the
bar paid me a visit yesterday, and I purchased .some of
their cargo."
" I think," said Rockford,, "they are the sea-faring
portion of the' fish-mongers who dwell in those filthy huts
near our wharf."
"It is highly probable," replied the Captain., "They
related to me yesterday, that they had been attacked by
a party of desperate looking men in bats, and their
fish and oysters taken from them. They supposed that
the men were a portion of bnditti; whodhave a retreat
not many miles from shore." '

"This must be looked into," rejoined Rockford. "The'
police must have the country diligently searched.
The gentlemen, arm in arm, walked the quarter-desk,
talking socially about their college scrapes. Their mer-
ry peals of laughter often attracted the attention of the
crew, who were busily engaged in hoisting packages of
merchandise from the hold of the vessel and lowering
them upon the lighter, or 'scow, which was to convey
them across the bar to Crofton. The friends continued
their walk, and the jolly crew sang theii- songs and
turned the windlass. They were devoted to the Cap-
and his slightest command was executed by towery
one, from the mate down to, the sailor-boy.
When the dinner hour approached, Captain Walsing-
ham led the way 'to the saloon, where Mrs. Rockford
and Sebastian were. The little boy had made' friends
with a large Newfoundland dog belonging to Captain
Walsingham.
"Sebastian is. very fond of dogs," said his father.
"He has a little pet at home which is as dear to him as
his parents."
"He shall have the Newfoundland, too, if you will
be encumbered with him, Rockford," remarked the Cap-
tam. "Carlo is a royal dog, and'will guard any treas-
urre with fidelity that may be placed under 'his 'care.
"I accept the gift for Sebastian with much pleasure,"
said Rockford.
Dinner was announced, andthe party were soon seated
at a table which was spread with all the delicacies of the
season. When the first and second courses were ended,
the wines and fruits were brought out.


C

38.                ROOKFORD.
Those who have never partaken of a meal on ship-
board arendiGrepared to appreciate good eating. The
me4 wo, wished, and the evening was spent in witness-
ing the feats of strength, agility, and the dances of the
sailors. The Rockfords were perfectly delighted with
their excursion ; and it was with regret they took leave
of the Captain, who accompanied them in his boat more
than half the distance to. the town. Carlo only -parted,
with his master by compulsion. He was tied to one of
the rings of the boat, and struggled and howled pit-
eously when his master put 'back to the ship.
Just as the sun dipped his red disc into the sea, the
Rockfords stepped on-shore and sought their home. The
servants made fast the boat, and took home the oars and
the disconsolate Carlo, who, if he had been let loose at
that moment, would have stum to his master's ship
again.

J ;=ae

ROCKFORD-

39

.
'j

4

1'

CHAPTER V.
IT is a difficult thing, indeed, to give racy descriptions
of the scenes of every-day life; but those descriptions
if faithfully portrayed, are more eagerly read, and pro-
duce a more lasting impression on the, mind than a
treatise upon abstruse subjects. Divest literature of .its
'common-place scenes, which are introduced by authors
to fill up the acts of the drama, and you remove one of
the main propswhich support the fabric of fiction.  One
writer may spin out numberless pages upon an evening
excursion, and sustain a fair. reputation for authorship,
yet the trivial scenes, clothed in such beautiful language,
will scarcely survive the first edition of a work. The
imagination of the reader may not be so lucid as that of
the writer,! and it becomes necessary to paint each scene
with appropriate colors. Another writer may introduce
characters of an heroic -caste into his work, yet. if the
picture is not faithfully sketched, and the back-ground
made to correspond with the subject-matter, the delin-
eator has mixed his colors in vain..
Some of the most noted authors have preferred to
introduce the best scenes of their works in the opening
chapters, in order that the attention. of the reader may
at once be arrested, but the denouement of the plot may
expand into airy nothingness. The Illiad of Homer,
one of the most beautiful poems that was ever written

.
J  4


40             ROOKFORD.

in any language, and perfect in. all its parts, is d re-
markable exception to the general rule, inasmuch as the
illustrious author plunges into, medias res, and presents
the tero in a revengeful mood, about to decide the des-
tinies of two great),contending nations, by retiring from
the war which his valor alone could win. .But is it not,
preferable to commence with the beginning, and enjoy
the pleasure of filling up each scene in thelife of your
hero; not leaving it for the imagination of the reader to
supply the vacuum ?  The taste of the intelligent reader
is the best arbiter.
Such a thing has happened, where self-styled critics
have disputed about the identity of .the rightful hero or
heroine of a novel. It is an evidence of an erratic ge-
nius to clothe the hero in habiliments so similar to those
of the prominent characters, that the distinction is dif-
ficult. For fear that some critics may wrangle about
the hero of this work, it. is proper to state right here
that Sebastian, and nit his father, is the hero of: this
novel. Who would careto record the actions of a more
promising lad than the little curly haired boy that was
the light, and life of Rockford house?
A few days subsequent. to the advent of the New-
foundland dog to his new home, Sebastian was playing
a the veranda with his pets. Carlo was one of,. the
largest size of his species, while Jupe was 'the most "di-
...  tive of his race! The one was large, muscular and
dtcapted to the performance of feats that required
strength -and agility; the other was exceedingly
sn.all, 'feeble, and, seemed .to have been formed for a
f                                d

t
rf
s  ta9
- 2"
'.4

,
;.
K
h  +
'  n
o=
' +e
k
f

r'

+ ROOKFORD            41

plaything and pest. Carlo was as' much astonished at
the little creature, as Jupe was at the huge proportions
of his powerful companion. Jupe had all the mettle of
a bull-dog concentrated in his heart. At times, when
Carlo would irritate him, he would bite him upon the
nose with',all the vengeance of an adder. The only
punishment Carlo -inflicted upon 1him for. his misdeeds
was both laughable and tanta zing. He would seize
Jupe carefully around the body and bear him off be-
tween his huge jaws. .After running across the yard a
few times,' at a pace so. brisk that, the poodle would lose
his breath; Carlo would deposit the culprit upon the
steps of the veranda for resuscitation.
Sebastian had learned to ride upon the back of Carlo
with perfect safety. Upon the morning on ,which the
boy and his pets were introduced upon the veranda, Sc-
bastian had just finished feeding them. His mother,
hearing her son express . a desire to ride, walked .out
upon 'the veranda and placed him upon Carlo's back..
Jupe expressed a desire to ride also, by holding up his
fore-paws and barking piteously. Mrs. Rockford placed
Jipe in Sebastian's arms. Carlo had not the least ob-
jection in the world to carrying his young master, but
with the addition of Jupe to -his burden he trotted off
that morning in no good frame of mind. If the weight
of Jupe had not been the hundredth fraction of an ounce
the principle woulhave been the same with the et    .,
fallen Carlo. He laid up a good shaking for the pol
when the next overt. act should be committed.
Carlo carried his riders out upon the lawn in front of


ROCKFORD.             43

the spacious mansion, where-he met Mr. Rockford just
returning from town. Theparent was much delighted
at the, sport of Sebastian and Jupe. He conducted the
obedient Carlo back to the house, where he was disen-
cumbered of his load.
Mr. Rockford was particularly fond of the enjoy ents
of home. His early years had been spent upon the
arena of abusy life; and when the period had arrived
for him to assume the responsibilities of a married man,
the major portion of his leisure hours was passed, in
the bosom of his family.
When Mr. Rockford seated Sebastian by his side in
the sitting room on that morning, the curiosity of the
boy was greatly exercised- about -the ~contents of his
father's pockets. , As was his usual custom, he diligent-
ly searched them until he was enabled to draw forth his
candies and fruits, which were usually stored in those
receptacles in large quantities.
4"What'news do you bring from town, Mr. Rockford ?"
said the Wife, as she seated' herself for the purpose of
resuming her never-ending, work of embroidery.
"There are strange rumors afloat in Crofton," replied
Mr. Rockford. "They say there is a band .of robbers
not magiy miles from the town. Several suspicious men
} have been seen lurking about the jail since the confine-
of Royston, and it is now believed that he has
mysteriouslyly connected with them for two or three
"qltIis frequent-visits to the country upon horse-
during that space of time, and returning late at
nght, are strong presumptive evidence that he knows

h:
3'
}'
?;j i
'       Y,
_                            n
t    a _"  '?'
Y
'     L !
, g c
i"  a
}  S
ti
Y
f
'  s   ;
.
; ,
;i
&amp;, 'a
oT sx
ti 1  '
:w
n _
r; .
,t£
t. iF
;1
.., $,
_M1iniji
;; l -"
l  l Hwy
31
 y
.
' :  s  .

more about those lawless men than -he cares to relate.
The jailoi- has been instructed by the proper authorities
to have the prisoner closely guarded."
Mr. Rockford had a select library. Every good work
of ancient and modern times formed his tasty collection.
Shakspeare, Milton, Pope and Dryden were his favorite
poets. It was from them he had derived that exquis-
ite taste in the selection of words.that lent so much
beauty to his speeches.' He had perused a thousand
books before he was thoroughly   convinced that all
knowledge is contained in a few volumes. He was fond
of reading histories, particularly those that contained
the records of ancient heroes. ,He had learned to di-
vide the reigns of princes of 'different kingdoms into
periods. He was never at a loss how to place events in
their proper chronological order. His law books were
never neglected, being read and studied by, him with
system. The English and American Reports of the
decisions of cases at Common Law, were as familiar to
him as household words. It was a-thorough kiiowledge
of those works, and a practical application of 'the same,
that rendered him so formidable a competitor to his
compeers at the bar.
He employed his time ,chiefly in the investigation of
his cases, when not too busily engaged in the mechan-
ical formulas of the profession. He was never takan
by surprise when one of his cases was called in Co
The Spring Session of the Superior Court wasto com
mence within a -few weeks, and he bent all his energies
upon a proper preparation for the prosecution of Roys

'_A

- ,            RO CKFORD.


44  I{OKFOD.1IOCKFORD.

45

ton, as Mr. Winslow had retained him as leading coun-
sel. He was a conscientious man, who did not desire,
to receive five-thousand dollars without rendering his
client an equivalent for the same.
Time ever speeds by rapidly when we are engaged.:
An unusually large gathering about the Court house
square gave indications that the Court was upon the
point of convening.
The Spring had come in .that warm, beautiful clime of
the South, and Nature had put on .a gay dress. The
woods were enameled with flowers, and every hedge
was green with vernal beauty. The feathered songsters
sang their matins from the bush, and every animated
creature rejoiced in the return of Spring. Beautiful
ha py season, would that thy reign could last forever
The Grand Jury found a true hill against Royston
or murder, during the first day of the Session, and
when the case was called up, an unusually large crowd
assembled to witness the trial. The couhsel for Roys-
ton did their duty to their client, but'so well was the
case managed upon the part of the prosecution, a mo-
tion' for a new trial was not made, though many were
the points they strove to make during the :examina-.
tion of-the witnesses. Royston was convicted, and
sentence of death was pronounced upon him.
r Rockfrd 'had made one of his ablest efforts.Lupon
ial of Royston, and. through his adroit manage-
'::,_;   of the case, the Jury, were enabled to. bring in a
vlct against him, although there was some rebutting
:..evidence in his favor. His speech upon the occasion

'   =F
Y
o
i
fZ t" A
s
sr
'
4 f-j
1 No-
K
w+ :a'
r   v
Ir  ,
y tr
Y
r   a{.

was one of the crowning acts of his life. He had never
been known to make a failure at the bar, but, upon this
occasion, his success was commensurate' with the- fame
he had previously achieved as a criminal lawyer. The
Court House was filled to overflowing with the citizens,
and strangers from the neighboring counties, who had
been induced to attend, to listen to the speech of a dis--
tinguished man in a case of such vital importance to the
State and community. Mr. Rockford received the con-
gratulations of his friends 'with that degree of modesty
natural to one so gifted.
Duty, in his eyes, was more to be valued than the
hue and cry after popularity. Unless he considered
that he was entitled to commendation, he. would have
shrunk from applause, and desired his friends to have
lavished their praises upon one more deserving. Popu-
larity is like the' current of a stream, the more auxil-
iaries it receives, the more swollen will be the current,
and the more readily will it be enabled to overcome
obstacles in its headlong course. But, instead of en-
deavoring to augment his popularity, Rockford discour-
aged all propositions' tending to his own advancement.
The law, especially the criminal portion, is fraught
with many difficulties. It is not an easy task, to recon-
cile the law with the evidence and make a point; nor is
it less difficult to convince a client that justice has been
done to him, or ,a culprit that no advantage has been
taken of his dependent condition. Those who embark
in {the profession must make up-their minds. to sailupon
a tempestuous sea. It is very much to be feared that

r

t

ROCKY ORD.

4410


46             RQFOORDR.

the majority, of lawyers become case-hardened,. after "t
few years of successful practice;. but it must be remem-
beredythat all secular professions have their abuses.
Mi. Rockford had never courted the popular favor of
the world or his advancement to honorable positions,
but his mind had been bent almost entirely upon the
acquisition of PROPERTY. He had seen the advantages
arising from the influence of WEALTI bIf he . did not
acknowledge its power, the WORLD did. It is as profit-
able to blow your 'breath against the whirlwind as to
move in opposition to the popular current. The actions
of one man may be Herculean in comparison to those of
another; yet, when weighed in the balance against the
deeds of thousands, the scales are turned upon the side
of the majority. Somecontend that the whole force of
government is ruled by compromises, but its -own ab-
surdity refutes the admission. A. party which admits
the force of compromises, will have but little else to do
but to make and support them. 'Rockford was a happy
exception:to meh who are guided, in the main, by con-
ventional rules. He steered very safely between Scylla'
and Charyhdis, neither asking nor courting popular
favor.
Thirty years ago, the period -at which this story
opens, our Government was supported more according
to the tenets of JUSTICE, TRUTH and MODERATION, than
has been of late years. There was not such an in-
e  lity in the dispensation of justice, as at the present
time. The contending parties, if they differed mate-
rially, based the discrepancy, of their views upon other

than sectional grounds. If the laws, then, were rightly
administered, and made to redound to the glory and
happiness of a State, the cause was attributed, to the
correctness of self-government. If a State is made to
bear the burdens of other sections of aFederal Govern-
ment, the remedy to correct the-evil is not within its
own hands, and there is no. virtue, then, in State Sov
ereignty while the 'people submit.
Rockford was not a mercenary man, but he 'had a
sufficient quantity of pride to speed him forward in the
performance of anything in which he thought his DUTY
was enlisted. He had made a powerful effort to convict
Royston of the heinous crime of murder, and had sue-
ceeded. - He did not fear or care for the consequences
while his conscience was not disquieted. It had been
intimated to him that Royston was not without friends,
and the promptness with which competent counsel had
been employed to defend him, corroborated this 'belief.
It was supposed that he had been intimately connected
with a band of robbers, whose degradations, of late,
were assuming an importance not to be overlooked by
those who had rights to maintain. It was even supposed
that the wire-workers of that band were frequent visi-
tors to the town, and might he not have endangered' his
life and property by discharging his duty so well? 4d-
mitting this to be true, lie had pledged himself to be
faithful to his trust, and no obstructions could thwart
his plans, or remove him from the course of his duty.
The laws had been seriously violated, the life of a
good citizen 'had been unjustly taken, and was it a

ROOKFORP.

,
;,    Ec
(    ''  s.
4         ;
a:,
' .
.     ,
a
3
n 4,
4
.
,fir
C
. i a
,t
r
.


"ROOKFORD             49

48 -             tOCKFORD.,

proper time to compromise the rights of humanity to
escape the prejudices of those who were not law-abiding?
He belonged to that class of men who were in favor of
letting justice be done, though the heavens should all
Do you hot applaud him?                                                               P
SwET, holy, heavenly Sabbath, who d
behold thy coming? Who does not adma
be classed among things divine? It is th
endless rest which God hath pr-epaed in ti
His people. In whatever country of this b
upon which the Gospel of Christ has ypo
ings, the Sabbath is respected and obse
truly in His Holy temple, and earth sho
before Him. The citizens of  rofton w
the crowded pews of 'the churches attested
they took in religion. There were bu
was a pleasing sight, upon each Sabbath
hold 'the avenues and streets leading to
crowded with 'people hurrying' on .to v
shrine of God.
The cai-riages of the wealthy drew up
yard, and the occupants passed quietly i
of the Most High. ' The middle classes
all thronged the aisles of the church, an
the unrented pews. Each one remember
sentence, "I was glad when they said un
go unto the house of the Lord."
The church of Christ will never be- a
4

oes not love to
it thy right to
te type of that
he Heavens for
beautiful world,
ured. its bless-
rved.  God is
uld keep silent
ere moral, and
d the interest
t few, indeed,
sanctuary. It
ierning, to be-
the churches,
worship at the
at the church-
.nto the house
acnd the poor
d crowded into
ad the beautiful
Ito me, Let us
advanced in in-


50,                ROKFORD.
tierest where the fashions and prejudices-of the" citizens
are allowed to govern it. If wealth were more equally
distributed among the people, a Moderate degree of
splendor might not be objectionable. - But the-majority
of those who are constant attendants upon Divine ser-
vice belong to the class of those who are supported by
their daily labor. They never feel at home in the midst
of so 'much splendor as is sometimes lavished upon, the
decorations of' hurches. Whatever may be the views
of others upon. this subject, we respect them; but, if
money is to be spent in a good cause, let it begiven to
the poor, for we have them with us always.
The organ struck up an anthem, and the choir joined,
in sweet harmony. The Minister read out the morning
lesson, and his fervent prayers ascended to Heaven. In
=his discourse he alluded feelingly to the recent painful
occurrence.' Tears of sorrow were shed by those who
beheile grief of the father: and mother of Mr. Wins-
lowlio occupied one of the front seats.. The Minister
Bade them weep not for their son, but to prepare to meet
the great day of the.comin gof . God. It was a difficult
thing for them to submit to the will of Providence, but
God hath commanded us to let the dead bury their dead,
and we should repine not. The Savior of mankind suf-
fered death for us, and lay in the cold embraces of the
tomb, and we should not dread to enter there..
Hedwelt upon the enormity of the sins of th\se who
rejected the Gospel, and did not heed the warnigs that
were given them, every day.. The whole congregation
felt the force of the appeal, and when the benediction

ROCKFORD.              51

was pronounced, and the congregation departed for their'
homes, each one felt that he or she had received a bless
ing.
Mr. Rockford and his family were conveyed to their
splendid mansion in their costly carriage. When they
were summoned to dinner, the husband and wife com-
menedd the meal in silence, but they were soon engaged
in social converse.
"My dear," said Mr. Rockford, " is it not strange
that we who enjoy so many blessings, should live so
neglectful in the performance of our duty ?"
A tear glistened in the eye of Mrs. Rockford, as she
heard this 'confession from ithe lips of her husbyand
She knew that he was not what the world calls a wicked
man, but his mind had been so bent upon the acquisition
of property that he had been too negligent in returning
thanks to God for tthe many blessings with which he
was surrounded."
"Truly, my'husband; we are all too sinful. We are
too apt to forget God while He is so good to us. It is
only when his afflicting rod is scourging us that we re-
member Him. .He afflicts us that we may be drawn more
closely into His fold. Suppose He should take Sebastian
from us, would we not be bowed down With sorrow ?"
As the eyes of Mr. Rockford rested upon the beauti-
ful face of his child, his heart was filled 'with .pride
mingled with sorrow. He knew that if the boyshould
be spared to him, his own life might flow on in one un-
interrupted stream of happiness, but should an early
death remove him from the.home of his dear parents,
that sorrow would fill that house forevermore.


52             ROOKFORD.:

Mr. Rockford had arrived at the- period.of life when
it behooved him to render those around him all the as-
sistance that lay in his power. He resolved from that
day to commence a reform. His. example might tend
much towards influencing others to- leave off from fol-
-   lowing in the evil pathsof sin.
But how to commence, that reform was certainly. a
difficult thing. As he sat in his studio upon that holy
Sabbath-evening, and beheld with what glee Sebastian
sported among the flowers that were just opening to the
kisses of Spring, he felt as if his Maker had sent his
son as a blessing, and his own example would either
pr phare his. offspring for happiness, or consign him to'
the shades of misery.
He had endeavored to live justly and conform to the
.laws of the land, but, upon an examination of his own
heart, he discovered that the laws of ,God required more
than the mere observance of a creed which is upheld
merely by the basis of morality. He had been influ-
enced too much by the subtle .teachings of those who,
though not militating against the established usages of
orthodox church doctrines, invited them to pin their
faith to moral principles, which were not dissimilar to
those tenets taught by the ancient philosophers.
He had not sought his knowledge, in a prayerful man-
ner, from the great fountain of, divinity-the Bible.
Henceforth he would not .neglect the blessed volume.
If any of our readers are in doubt as to any question
which should guide them. aright, in. a mQral point of
view, let. them search the Scriptures-the tenets of men
are dangerous guides.

:
,
i' !
'  ..
8 .

/y
1/

* The Sabbath passed, and the week with its busy
scenes was ushered in. Each one of the citizens of the
place was busy in the pursuit of his daily occupation.
Mr. Snibbens had turned over several new leaves in his
classics, and as many in-his translations. 'His scholars
were flogged and "turned back" when they advanced
too rapidly for him. Mr. Samuel Culverhouse and his
amiable wife still prepared wholesome viands for their
boarders. Mr. Simpkins sold his goods to those' who
gave him their patronage, and the affairs of the town
moved on smoothly. The Ellen had been heavily laden
with the staple produce of the country, and had sailed
to foreign ports. The Captain promised Mr. Rockford
to pay him a visit upon his return, and bring many cu-
riosities and presents for Sebastiai, for whom he 'had
manifested much love.
Those who dwell in fine houses, and are blest with the
goods of this world, are rarely, if ever, wanting in
friends and relatives. Rockford house was noted for
its. hospitality. A few days after the Sabbath evening
reveries' of the proprietor, several friends alighted at
his gate. Mr. Rockford felt that it was not good to be
alone, and he hastened to welcome them. As he )has-
tened across the long front yard, which intervened be-
tween the house and the outer street, he recognized
several friends and relatives whom he had not seen for
several years. He should now have an opportunity of
presenting them to his dear Josephine. She had never
seen them, but his friends were ever dear to her.
"My. dear aunt Margery," said Mr. Rockford, "how

ROCKFORD.           50

}e ^
; ^    .Y
z
ti
?^ i^,
^5t.,


ROCKFORD.             55

glad I am to see you.! Welcome to Rockford house.
Cousin Roxana,. this is indeed' a surprise. Josephine
will be so glad to see you. Cousin Frances, how you
have grown ! Mr. Watson, you and Mr. Judson assist
the ladies to the house, while T look after your bag-
gageMrs. Rockford, arriving just at this time, was for-
inally presented to each one of her guests by her hus-
band. They were conducted to the spacious niansion
by the good lady. Rooms were speedily prepared for
the new c omers, and Rockford house was no longer a
quiet residence, but it seemed more- like a crowded ho-
tel at a watering place than the dwelling of a private
family.
The-horses of the. visitors were properly cared for,
and soon occupied the well filled stables. The carriages
were rubbed. off and rolled under the spacious sheds,
and every thing was in a happy bustle that lived, breath-
ed and moved upon that homestead. We 'live only for
our friends, thought Mr. Rockford, as he arrayed him-
self in a new suit of clothes which he had never yet
worn. Selfishness was no part of his nature, and what
he enjoyed, his friends were welcome t~o share with him.
He' surveyed himself in the long mirror, and was not at
all displeased with'his own personal appearance. It is
true a few gray hairs were intermi'igled with his flowing
locks; but he knew he had arrived at that period of life
when gray hairs were expected. We have said he was-
satisfied with his appearance. The reader would have
acknowledged Mr. Rockford's claims to fine looks, we

will not say to beauty, for that term should never be
applied to men.
As we have said before, Rockford house was the very
home of hospitality. The building was very large, and
commanded;, not only a good view, of the ocean, but a
person' stationed. in the observatory might overlook the
whole.region. The eight spacious rooms upon the first
floor were occupied, principally, by the family and the
select friends and relatives who blessed the house with
their protracted visits. The eight rooms on the second
floor were used as the apartments of those who were
merely spending a few days as friends.    The four
rooms of the third story were occupied. when the house
was crowded to overflowing. Those rooms were resort-
ed to by Mr. Rockford, when he wished to retire from
the din -and bustle of his family. The front of the
building was adorned-with massive columns, which ex-
tended from the 'main piazza to the roofing, giving beau-
ty and strength to the entire structure. . At the landing
of the second and third stories, a veranda extended
out for the accommodation of a small party who might
desire to enjoy a tete-ajtete, and yet have the benefit of
the sea breezes. The house was built of brick, and
stuccoed after the most, approved style, and so accurate-
ly penciled as to 'present the appearance of a grand
marble pile. Every room of this magnificent structure
was supplied with furniture to correspond with its ex-
ternal appearance.' The well' trained servants moved
like clock-work in their appointed spheres. Few were
the orders given at' Rockford house, for when the ser-

I4             ROCKL' ORD.


RQCKFORD.
vants, who know their duty, perform it, system is never
wanting.
Mrs. Margery Fairfield was an aunt of Mr. Rock-
ford's. She was a lady of moderate fortune, who re-
sided at Colonna, one of the .heighb9ring towns. Her
husband had. died only a few years previous to the visit
of the good lady to her relative. Her two daughters,
Roxana and Frances, who had   mpleted their educa-
tion, were her only children. Thomas Watson and
Reginald Judson, were agreeable acquaintances, who,
' had kindly consented to. be their visiting companions.
After the visitors had been conducted to their rooms,
and sufficient time had elapsed for them to perform their
ablutions, and exchange a'traveling for a more comely
dress, the company assembled in the drawing-room. It
was a goodly siglft to see how the countenance of each
one was wreathed with smiles. Mr. Rockford could'but
anticipate a pleasant time with his visitors. If time
should pass sluggishly, and the hours should be inter-
spersed with moments of gloom, his carriages or pleas-
are-boat should be put int9 requisition.
Mr. Rockford again welcomed the party to his house,
and'wished them to put off all restraint and seek what
means of enjoyment that might be within their grasp.
The company were soon engaged in an animated .con-
a versation, in which Mr. Rockford and aunt -Margery
took the lead. The young mei; the cousins and Mrs.
Rockford were not long in becoming acquainted. Se-
bastian and his pets were inot overlooked, At length,
when themparty had ezpes ed a desire to promenade

ROOKFORD.            57

I

'4

upon the terraces, Mr. Rockford led'them out in front
of the building. They were struck with admiration at
the beauty of the evergreen hedges, and the vast quan-
tity , of early Spring flowers, which were thus early
scenting the lawn. The area just in front, of the house
bloomed with flowers. A little farther on, the giant
oaks, and- the-trees which were planted by the proprie-
tor of the place, covered the ground with a' continuous
shade.
After spending an hour in an agreeable conversation,
and enjoying a delightful walk, the company retired to
their rooms to make preparations for dinner.
What mortal is there, who is free from the horrible
pangs of'dyspepsia, that' does not welcome the dinner
hour ? Poems have been written upon it, or'ations have
been pronounced upon it, yet the theme is inexhaustible.
The ancients revered it ; the moderns do not scorn it;
and we, oh ! Epicurus, do not hate it. Take away our
breakfast or supper, but' let us not be far distant from
the smoking. viands that .roast upon the spit, or thp
brown pheasants that float in the golden gravy, with all
the little extras that fill up the spare corners of the
ovens. .Let us not be far from' those when the tintin-
nabulation of the dinner-bell is heard.
Reader, did you ever enjoy a good dinner when twenty
miles of travel had given you a good appetite, and you-
had become sick of home fare ? If not, you have yet
something to live for.

\.

I


58             ROOKFORD.

CHAPTER. VII.             '
The majority of mankind rejoice in the blessings that
are poured out upon them from day to day, without re-
turning thanks to the great Giver of good ind perfect
gifts. It is a common saying, that tthe hog never looks
up to him who threshes down the acorns.'. It is never
more perfectly exemplified than in the conduct of some
men, who seem to be perfectly devoid of all moral prin-
ciple.
'Fortune, it is true, showers its blessings, indiscrim-
inately,.upon the just and unjust. The rains of Heaven
descend with equalmeasure upon saint and sinner; the
fortunes of the hour are within the grasp of the prince
and the: peasant. Whether the happiness of our little
hero is controlled entirely by chance, or not, the writer
deposeth not._
W'e, at present, must follow the'happy party into the
spacious hall of Rockford house. It was arranged with
everyconvenience that modern taste could fashion out.
We shall not give a minute description of it, leaving the
imagination of the reader to ornament the scenes.
The table was bountifully spread with costly viands,
which could not fail to tempt the Palate of the most
fastidious. Mr. Rockford seated himself' at the head
of the well-supplied board, and bide his guests be seat-

ROCKFORD.                     59
ed and enjoy the bounties of Rockford house. It was
his peculiar delight to" have his friends surround his
table, and enjoy the comforts of his well filled larder.
Conversation is the fountain from which flows the source
of enjoyment at the dinner-table. Without its aid, the
sumptuous feast is spread in vain. The most marked
attention upon the part of the host, without a due ap-
preciation of the guests, is -a vain effort to effect enjoy.
ment. Mr. Rockford had studied the philosophy of the
ancients and the more refined of the moderns, and was
prepared, upon all occasions, to render any company
into which he mignt be thrown, agreeable.
"Homer had a pleasant and very agreeable faculty,
Mr. Watson," said Mr. Rockford, "of ,describing a
feast, and lending to the assembly a grandiloquent flow
of conversation, to enliven it."
"True," replied the guest, who was never more at
home than in descanting upon his favorite authors.
"Homer supposed, and that truthfully, that a feast
without conversation was a ludicrous thing. It would
have 'appeared in his eyes, as if the guests had been in
vited to a funeral, rather than to the board of merri-
ment, if the flow of sentiment were of consequence
obliged to be restricted."
" Who has not been touched with the lines in.Homer ?
"Then spread the tables. the repast prepare,
Each takes his seat, and each ,receives his share.
When now the rage of' hunger was repressed,
With pure libations they conclude the feast."
"But," replied Mr. Watson, "the sentiment, as ex-
pressed in those lines, is rather an - invitation to youth
enjoy the luxuries of the wine cup."

4

4

*


60                 ROC@ORD.
"Not at all," said the good host. "In those days,
when liquors were unadulterated, there was but little
drunkenness. Men were supposed to be guided more
by reason and common sense than they are how.- The
feast, or even an extraordinary dining, was not supposed
to be complete without the introduction of wine. If
men would only drink the juice of the graped in moder-
ation, we should have no cases of intoxication."
Mr. Judson, who had been endeavoring to entertain
the ladies in the meantime, joined in the conversation,
and the meal passed off to the satisfaction of every one
present. The meats, dainties, fruits and wines were
served in turn. When the last course was served, the
company retired from, the hall to enjoy the evening as
the fates might degree, r as their host might see 'proper.
He is a happy man A ho can make the best plans for
enjoyment. The wises men have failed in this partic-
ular. In vain we often sit and ponder over the best
matured plans of action. The occurrences of an hour
may supply us with the means of enjoyment, or may
snatch from us every vestige of that basis of enjoyment-
which may be fraught with pleasure.
The visitors of Mr. Rockford, in a very few days,
became domesticated, and distant formalities were aban-
doned.. The -amusenents consisted of excursions along
the coast in theypleasure-boats belonging to Mr. Rock-
ford, or the carriages conveyed the guests to the; roman-
tic portions of the surrounding country. Mr. Watson
was particularly fond of the society of Miss Roxana
Fairfield, the elder of the beautiful sisters, while she

ROOKFORD.

61

was not indifferent to his polite attentions. He had
commenced the practice of the Law atgColonna, under
the most favorable auspices. He had' been received as
an agreeable visitor at the house of Mrs. Fairfield; thus
his acquaintance with the family had almost ripened
into 'intimacy. He was one of - those prudent young
men whose good sense never permitted him to enter
into extravagances of speech. He hadbeen a close
student, and had not only read the ivorks of the best
authors, but had' studied them carefully. Upon this
account, he 'was a very pleasant companion for Mr.
Rockford. They spent several hours of each day in
conversation upon polite literature. They were partic-
ularly fond of poetry, especially the works of the au-
thors of the old school'. It was a pleasant task for
them'to take the works of Pope, and select portions
from his best essays and translations. Each line was
suggestive of thought, and lengthy disputations would
spring up between the friends, which could only be set-
tled by an agreement upon the next beautiful passage.
Mr. Judson was a young man of a gay temperament.
He'seemed to live only for the enjoyment of the pres-
.ent. He amused Miss Frances Fairfield and Mrs.
Rockford by a rehearsal of his college scrapes. To
have heard him converse, one would have supposed that
the four years 'he spent at the University were. not well
improved, but he had managed to pick up a- smattering
of the languages. - He had merely scracped'through a
graduation. He was the life of the party, and never
let time hang heavy if he' could procure an audience.

r

'.  '-


p

6ROKFORD.
If he could amuse! himself in no other ways he would
take Jupe and Carlo and amuse Sebastian. The child
loved him dearly, and insisted iapon a frequent rehear-
sal of the feats he had taught the pets to perform. - He
would clap his little hands and jump for joy when Car-
lo would leap over the bars, or find a handkerchief,
hidden by Mr. Judson.
The guests had been at Rockford house several days.
and yet their host would not consent for them to depart.
Time had not passed so pleasantly with him in a -long
time. He exacted a promise fronthem that they would
spend two more weeks at his house. He desired to give
them a grand party, and invite the citizens of the town
to it. He was fond of merriment himself, and nothing
delighted him so much as to see his friends enjoy his
hospitalities.
Aunt Margery spent the most of her time in the so-
ciety of Mrs. -Rockford, whose company she esteemed
very greatly. The good old lady was fond of impai-ting
what lessons she had early learned upon house-keeping,
the art of cookery, and the all-irmportant one of quilt..
making, to all young folks. She had seen the folly of
throwing away scraps which might just as well form the
squares of a quilt. It would be well for us if we had
many such good soulas she was. She was not -stupid
or awkward in company, but preferred the society of a
few to mingling with the gay throngs, whose only object
appeared to her to be a grand display 'of fine dress.
She thought folks had better learn to copy Nature more,
and trust less to art;. But aunt Margery was. too pru-

R O K FORD.6
dent to restrict her daughters in their harmless enjoy-.
.ments.
What a happy thing it was for Mrs. Rockford that
she had the as istance of aunt Margery! When her
husband proposed the party, she interposed not the least
objection, but readily gave her consent. Her larders
were well supplied with every ingredient) she desired.
Her cooks were well trained, and she was no novice in
the culinary art. Aunt Margery could give her much
odcounsel; and upon the following day she com-
menced making extensive preparations for the festival.
Hcr husband had told her to spare no expense, but to fit
up a sumptuous supper for a great number of guests.
It was soon known in Crofton that a grand party was
to be given by Mr. Rockford in honor of Mrs. Fairfield
and her daughters. They had received the attentions
of the visiting portion of the ladies and the young men.
Those who expected tickets to the party commenced
making preparations to attend. Mr.'Snibbens brushed
up his seedy coat, had it pressed and repaired, and
commenced looking out some big words and phrases to
use upon the occasion.
While the party is the common gossip of the town,
and the ladies of Rockford house are making extensive
preparations for the occason, let s relate other things
which may be of. interest. to the reader.. It has been
intimated that a band of robbers was supposed to have
one of their retreats, near the town of Crofton. The
attack which had been made upon the fishermen by men
who seemed to he intimate with the coast, and the fact


$4 .4-              ROCKFORD.
that su vicious men had been seen lurking iii)the neigh-
borhood of the jail, gave strength to ,the suspicions
thatiRoyston had friends and accomplices. in a set of
maraders wh9 place all law and order at defiance. It
was not at all improbable; neither had the-character of
that- desperate iman been above reproach for along time.
It 'as a mysterf to his former friends and companions
how he managed to pay his bills. They supposed; that
hi had resorted.to the gaming-table. His most intimate
acquaintances were: not generally known in the town,
nor did they apear as if desirous'of pushing themselves
into society, so.little were they suited for the company
of the refined.
Crofton was built, as to the business portion of it,
around the Court square.  The stores of; all descrip-
tions were situated at intervals, and, with the hotels and
nd other  buildings, filled up the entire sp ce."The
i churches anti academies were located upon emiiences in,
Convenient parts of. the toyn  while the residencesof
the inhabitants were rangedupon'the different, streets,
as suited the convenience of' the citizen. The principal
street led to the wharf, rhere} were located: the exton-.
sive warehouses. Orofton, though not large enough to
recalled a city;was a place that co~i ained nearly two
thousand inhabitants#though it was a small place in
comparison to some cities upon the coast.
Jewellers, drutgists, dentists pnd painters occupied
the room  I the second and third stories of the busi-
ness ouses. It i to one of those out-ofethe-way offices
that w  are about to conduct the reader., Upon a swing-

ROCKFORD.
ing sign might be mead the name of "Hans Kemple,
Jeweller." In order to discover the exact locality of
the veritable Hans, the sign further described the part
of the house he was supposed to occupy, "Third floor,
second room to the right."  When you arrived at the- ,
gallery of the second floor, numerous signs greeted you.
" Miss Jerusha Smith, Milliner." 7"J. Sinclair Peebles,
Attorney at Law."  "G. iHigginbotham Compton, Den..
twist " "Crofton Courier," and other offices. After
passing up the second flight of steps, the.attention of
the stranger was only directed to the small sign of Hans.
The other apartments were private, or not occupied
at all.
At a given signal from without, Hans went cautiously
to the doorgand having satisfied himself that a friend
sought admittance, .he opened the door without hesita-
tion.
"Ah! Heinrich, is it you?" said Hans. "I am
overjoyed to see you. How is o r scheme progressing?
When were you at the retreat ?"
"Do not talk-so loudly," replied ieinrich. "Walls
have ears. You are iot awar how very closely we
are watched of late.
"Then dome into. my little baksroo   aid nsai a
"We can talk there without fear   molestation."
Hans led Heinrich through his tolerably well filled
room into the small apartment indicated. The door
was bolted, and they commencedbtalking eag atly.
"Heinrich," said Hans, "time is very precious, in-
deed. ' Only One week inte venesbetween this day and

y  ,   4  f
_'44I.a  "^,  ' t

'4

'4

',; ,,',
i  s 3

4                             44

. ,: "  ''
r,
of     'i

mw 1
=exit , '_r

sg     x
r                         t rat
,       ^ ,              tf       tyA,,    t, ,
t,   z  , ;     ,fi                             a
,ry


ROCKFORD

his execution. It will never do in the worlTfor so noble
a soul as he is to suffer s'o humiliating a death: He has
been true and valiant, and right nobly has he divided.
the poils with us. He has been foremost in every at-
tack, the first to strike, and the last to quit th' field.
When we have been forced to abandon an enterprise, he
has covered our retreat, and defied all the united force
of his assailants."
"You speaktruly, Hans," said his companion. "Thus
far he has borne his confinement and trial with heroic
fortitude; but death is a dreadful thing. Do you sup-
pose he4 would ascend the scaffold,- and take the awful
leap into eternity, with all the crimes that hang upon
his soul, and not make a confession? You arrive at
different conclusions from what I do, if yiu think your-
self safe. He knows that it isin our power to release
him from confinement, and he expects it at our hands."
"See what I have been doing for the past few days,"
id Hans. "Here is a finely tempered- saw, which I
hive made. This must be conveyed to him as soon as
ossile. With this he can sever the manacles that
bind him, and cut his way out of confinement in a 'few
hours."
The companion of Hans informed him that he had
been upon a visit to heir friends, and they were doubly
enlisted in the cause of Carl Royston. If he should
not be enabled tosnake his escape within a few days, it
was theigtitention to brave all, and risk Their lives in
hid    etice.. Hans had hit upon a plan'tosee Royston,
and he dotibted Hnot but that he-could place the instru.-

4~
gem
,em 4ri{,

ment he had made in his own hands. The jailer had
called upon him only a few days before to have an article
of jewelry repaired, and he would walk out in that di-
rection and drop in .and see him.
When Heinrich had taken his departure, Hans en-
closed the saw, which was very small, in a paper, took
several late newspapers and put them in his pocket.
He directed his footsteps towards the common, upon
which the jail was located. He was in the act of pass-
ing the prison, when the jailor, who was at work in the,
garden, hailed him, and invited him to call in. Hans
tried-to excuse himself, but the jailor urged.him so that
:he consented to tarry only. a few minutes. The jailor
was a communicative man. He could never rest until
he had divested himself of every secret he was in pos-
session of. Yet he was a faithful man, who might have
been entrusted' with the. greatest treasure. He was
prepared to defend the jail and environs with his life.
The jailor invited Hans to join, him in a glass, at the
same time. opening the door of a closet. Hans consent-
ed, of course, and..soon the friends were discussing" upon
various subjects. The conversation at length turned
upon Royston, whom Hans pictured out as being one of
the most abandoned men he had ever seen. The drinks
were repeated, and the jailor was in a fair way of be-
coming intoxicated. Hans recollected that he had the
piece of jewelry, which he had- repaired for the jailor in
his pocket. When. he offered it to him, he could not be
prevailed upon to receive any compensation for his work.
Hans expressed a'desire to see the prisoner, saying that,

z        4

4    K

6

67

.. Y ftit


ROCKFORD.

as he would not be in town upon the day of the execu-
tion, he had a curiosity to see the wretch .once more.
The jailor consented, and led 'the way to -his place of
confinement. The massive bolts and locks yielded to
the key and the pressure of the strong hand .of the
jailor, and they were soon in the presence of Carl
Royston.. The prisoner Was a man above the medium
size, andseemed formed for feats of strength and agil-
ity;..He could not have been'exceeding thirty-years-of
age, from the appearance of his face. A heavy beard,
almost jet black,. corresponded with his long, flowing
ringlets. There were few finer looking men than Roys-
ton. The prisoner merely bowed to Hans, as the latter,
accompanied by' the jailor, entered the room. Royston
was seated at a table, reading a book. Several papers
were scattered upon the table. Hans observed that
Royston was confined.,by a chain, which was fastened
to one of his ankles. The chain was secured by a staple
driven into the floor near his bed.
Hans conversed with' the prisoner upon trivial matters
for some time, without alluding to the murder. Roys-
ton asked the jailor to furnish him with a supply of
fresh water. While the latter was gone to get it, Hans
hastily drew out the saw and a ball of twine, and gave
them to Royston. Ne said that, upon the night previ-
ous to 'the day appointed for the execution, his escape
must be made. The plan was imparted to Royston in
a few words. The- friends embraced and were silent,
as they heard the footsteps of the jailor.
Hans took his departure from the jail, well pleased

ROCKFORD.
with the success' of his visit. The hopes of. Royston
were revived. He began his work of sawing the bars
of the window, which was happily within his reach. He
worked slowlyat first, and succeeded so well that the
bars were sawn sufficiently,.in one night, to render them
capable of being wrenched off. The window had a
curtain, which the prisoner wisely drew over the aper-
ture to conceal his designs. The jailor had heard no
noise, and not suspecting an attempt on the part of
the prisoner to make his escape, merely performed the
usual task of furnishing Royston -with his meals. Roys-
ton concealed the saw in his bosom, resolving to part
with it only with his life.
When the jailor had performed his round, upon the
evening preceding the day set apart for the execution,
Royston commenced the task of sawing in twain the
iron that encumbered him. He labored long and dili-
gently, and succeeded in severing it just at midnight.
He went to the window, and listened for the signal.
All was still and quiet. There was no noise in or about
the prison. His fate was in the balances, and the
weight of a feather would turnsthe scale. It seemed
almost an age to him when the clock tolled the hour of
one. Just then he heard a low whistle from the copse
hard by the jail-yard. He retui Ad the-signal cautious-
ly, and applied his hands to the bars, which yielded to
his pressure. One by one they were removed. Fasten-
ing the twine to one end of the saw, Royston threw it
with all his might over the enclosure of the jail. In a
fewinutes another signal was given, and he drew back


70             ROCKFORD.

the twine and joyfully clasped the end of a rope in his
hands. It was only the work of a few minutes to make
the cable fast to the bedstead, and swing himself from
the dizzy height to the ground. Holding fast to the
rope,, which had a fastening fiom 'without, Royston
climbed over the high wall. He was free !

0*

i
; -;:i_
}3 ,    t '
q ';r ./its
' n  .u{Ly
i.-    i
'
-V       .
.
3:'
t -     rr,.
y+   ,   ; }
f f-
(
r t-
{e, 4a  4Y;4r
-X' L

k

CHAPTER        VIII.
WE are taught from experience, that many of the ills
of life-result from disappointment. When once.we have
placed our affections upon an object, its attainment forms
our chief desire for the present moment.. It matters
but little how trivial is the object of our desires, the
mind is not the less bent upon its pursuit. A  country
damsel, once upon a time, performed a journey of ten
miles, on foot, to witness an execution; but the culprit
was reprieved by the Governor wlile the Sheriff was in
the act of adjusting the noose. Tae disappointed crowd
left the place filled with regret, and the damsel sought
her far-off home, bewailing her unhappy lot -complain-
ing that Fate had decreed that she should never enjoy
any of the pleasures of life!
If the execution of criminals were attended by the
thoughtless thousands who witness them, with other ob-
jects than those of gratifying an idle curiosity, and of
seeing the culprit enact the last scene of the drama of
life, the effect upon the by-standers would be different
from what it really is. The public execution of crimi-
nals was intended by our legislators, who enacted the
law, to act as a warning to the people, who are never
backward in crowding around the scaffold to catch the
last confession of the victim of the law. Men, whose

4

ROCKFORD.              71

a                                   '1  °  ,-° r
: .


72              ROOKFORD

skirts were red with the blood of innocent victims, and
whose hearts were black with crime, upon surveying the
sympathizing crowd around them, have imagined them-
selves martyrs, and have died amid seeming exultations.
The increase of crime has, in a measure, resulted from
those Nappy exits upon the part of fiends ; and many
nations have substituted private for public executions.
The town of Crofton was thrown into a state of utter
confusion on the morning after the escape of Royston..
Five thousand persons from neighboring places were in
and around Crofton, to witness the anticipated hanging.
The hotels were.croiwded, the private houses were over-
flowing with visitors, and the woods were fullHof men,
women and children, who had pitched their tents the
evening before. The jailor was almost frantic when he
discovered that the bird had flown. He could not gon-
ceive how the instrument had been conveyed to the
prisoner.. Suspicion could not rest upon Hans more
than upon'other men who had been admitted to Roys-
ton's cell. Besides, Hans was considered to be a man
of irreproachable character. The more ignorant por-
tion of the community imagined that Royston's escape
had been effected by super-natural agency. They did
not doubt but that Royston was in close league with the
adversary of souls. The 'editor of the town 'paper has-
tened to his .sanctum, locked his door to keep out intru-
ders, seated himself by his desk, took out a fresh supply
of paper; provided himself with a new pen, shook the
ink, roaches back his hair, crossed his legs, knit his
brows, lenhed his' teeth, and wrote-the following edi-
torial notice':

MIRACULOUS ESCAPE !
CAPTIVUS FUGIVIT!
UNPARALLELED EXCITEMENT!
MYSTERY CONNECTED WITH IT!
"Last night, when the silvery orb had disappeared
behind the horizon, and the roseate scintillations emit-
ted from the stellated firmament alone guided mortals
upon their nocturnal pereginations, by some mysterious
agency of supernal hand craft, a convicted miscreant,
whose life had been forfeited to the law by disinterested
and far-seeing jurors, effected his escape from durance
vile. [Here the' editor had recourse'to his dictionary of
quotations.] Ensconced, as he was, by the unyielding
walls of the conciergerie, [Here the editor took snuff]
manacled with a brazen chain with frequent links, guard-
ed by day 'neath the dragon eye of the ever wakeful jail-
or, and by night [tempore noctis] by the iron doors which
grate upon the brazen thresholds,. how was it possible
for the prisoner to have made his escape? [Here the
editor coughed three times, took snuff again, and spent
one hour in searching Pope's translation of the Illiad
for a suitable quotation.]
Now pleasing sleep hath closed each mortal eye,
Stretched in their tents, the Grecian leaders lie,
The immortals slumbered on their thrones above,
All but the ever-wakeful eyes of Jove.'
"Who would have supposed it within the power of one
so helpless as Royston -just upon the eve of beholding,
experiencing and feeling the dread realities of the un-
known Future--to effect his escape from-his keep, guard-

.4

ROOKFOED.

T           a-'
t

41
a,
r§
Q
4       '
l
i
f -    ai


74             ROCKFORD.

ed by bars of triple steel. [The editor spent another
hour in searching the pagesof Shakspeare.]
iAy, bt to die, and go, we knownot where;
TQ lie in cold obstruction, and to rot;'
Royston thought this, perhaps, and assisted by some
elf, wrenched the mighty fabric of the windows from
their strong position in the walls, and summoning all the
courage his naturally brave, but drepraved'heart pos-
essed, he swung down the cord, by fairies wrought,
cleared the court-yard below, and vanished into thin air.
"So great is the unparalleled excitement of the infu-
riated crowd, that anarchy reigns without. 'Saevitque
animis ignobile vulgus.' It is apprehended, upon the
part of our sooth-sayers, that 'Jamque fasces et saxa
volant.' If such a dire calamity should happen, as a
natural consequence, we. canp only expect that 'furor
arma ministrat.' But we shall n t despair.  'Nil des-
erandum.'
"By the time we go to press again, we hope and fondly
trust that the mystery may be cleared up. We should
not be too 'hasty in censuring our vei'y excellent and
highly competent jailor for the escape of Carl Royston.
More anon. Nous, verons."
The erudite editor unbolted the door of the sanctum,
placed the article in tie hands of the compositor, bade
him use all possible dispatch, and give him a proof of
it very soon.
When the paper made its appearance, the -sensible
portion of=the, citizens took a hearty laugh at the notice.
Snibbens thought it was 'an excellent production, full of

4r

'  t

ROOKFORD.                   75
appropriate classical quotations. It is more than prob-
able that it saved much disturbance, as the editor him-
self thought, as the crowd dispersed, no lives were lost,
no blood shed, and the ,jailor was unmolested.  What
a powerful engine is the Press !
The miraculous escape of Royston was the constant
theme of conversation for several days. At .length the
argument was exhausted, and other topics supplied the
vacuum. The whole town was in a bustle about the ap-
proacliing party at Rockford house. The merchants
were reaping a rich harvest, indeed, .from the sale of
fancy goods. Blessed are those who dwell in towns,
where the bustle and confusion of a crowded and hurried
populace do not deaden the genial vitality that should
pervade society. We should live in vain, if we did not
cultivate and refine the better feelings- of our nature.
If only the morbid desire of acquiring wealth, and of
elevating ourselves to a superior position in'society were
the mainspring to our exertions, the world, instead of
being advanced in civilization, would cease to reflect the
light of science, and the reign of. the Dark Ages would
overshadow mankind again.
By frequent repetition we- are enabled to learn the
most difficult-languages, and to demonstrate the most
intricate propositions. By frequent contact with our
associates we are enabled to polish our manners, and
prepare our minds for the. enjoyment of that blessed
existence which is promised to the faithful. The rough


Ashlar is divested of its asperities by the art of me-
chanism, and prepared for the adornment of costly
palaces. The golden stream of education, when, left
free to flow through ourrmidst, waters and revivifies every
plant in the garden of our hearts. The mind must be
concentrated upon a subject before the reasoning.facul--
ties can rise superior to mere matter. It is by a strict
regard to Truth, which is the touch-stone of every vir-
tue, that society is held together-that governments
flourish-and the heavenly bodies move in their accus-
tomed sphere. Truth, like pure gold, becomes more
refined by being polished ;' and the mind 'is expanded
and strengthened by the force of education.'
Housewives would forget the use of their utensils, if
they were not, at times, permitted to bring them into
requisition upon extra occasions. By the advice of
aunt Margery, Mrs. Rockford ordered a complete mus-
ter of every culinary utensil upon the premises. Thy
pots, ovens, spiders, skillets and baking-pans were all
brought face to face, to give account of their steward-
ship. Mr. Rockford smiled to see his aunt examining
the quality of every piece of ware with the care of a
purchaser. After condemning about one-half the lot
as unfit for service, the good dame made out a list for
new articles, which were presently bought arid brought
into.immediate requisition. All was bustle and merry
confusion at Rockfo-d house now.  Turkeys ,were cha-
sed down, and sacrificed; chickens suffered decapitation;
pigs were slaughtered; and the fish market .patronized.
Eggs ;were broken by the young ladies, and the young

76

ROCKFORD

bra
j
r
r
f'
Y
1
14 t
,  "
t
i"
F
'
1
3+
Tv
y
V
X
x5
f
"CZ
T,+
;q
T
.S
4
1 ,'
Y

ROOKFORD

' 77

men lent a helping hand. Mr. Rockford pulled off his
coat, laid Coke and Littleton upon the shelf, tied up his
office papers securely, and followed the workers into the
pastry rooms. He was soon banished from there by
the edict of aunt Margery, for he had forgotten himself
and upset the sugar bowls, mixed the white of the eggs
with the yellow, -and. spoiled fully a dozen of those in-
dispensible and ephemeral productions of the barn-yard.
He had mixed the sugar and flour without waiting for
commands, and must suffer banishment.
Judging that the house was almost too hot a place for
him, he hastened to the yard to assist Adam and dame
Phillis in roasting the meats, but he soon discovered
that his presence was not required there. He attempted
to turn one of the spits, and let a choice joint of meat
fall into the fire.
"Dar now," said Phillis; "massa done gone spile de
meat. I 'speck he done sumthin' 'rong in de hous, and
missis run him out dar. Do pray, massa, go 'long to
de Law offis, and leave de niggers 'lone. Dey can cook
de meat better'n you."
Mr. Rockford went to the house, and vowed he would
not again interfere with the arrangements of the party.
He procured a list of the guests to be invited, and sent
out the cards. In the meantime, the young men, who
were more docile, aided the ladies in their work, and
were of incalculable advantage to them. The domestic
apartments were redolent with the odor of pound-cake..
Every sunshiny place about the yard was. put into re-
quisition for drying the iced cake. Sebastian and Jupe


ROOKFRD                    ROCKFORD.

were closely guarded to keep them from mischief. Carlo
was the best custodian of the knick-knacks. The pigs
and feathered tribe, which had not been drafted, were
kept at bay by that, faithful animal. He would stretch
himself out, as if asleep, by the tables, and watch the
chickens as they would step lightly upon tip-toe to per-
petrate mischief. When they were upon the point of
committing the overt act, Carlo would make an imme-
diate sally upon them. He kept his watch faithfully,
and suffered no harm to come to the tables.
So expeditiously had the work been carried on under
th e superintendence of aunt Margery, that everything
was cooked fully two days before the time appointed for
the party. She had taught Mrs. Rockford some lessons
in the art of cookery she had never known before. The
young men had labored as faithfully as any of the ca-
terers. ,Mr. Rockford was not allowed to go near the
pantries, for fear he might upset something. Every'
apartment' about the house was cleansed and put in
complete order for the reception of the guests. When
the day for the party arrived, the gentlemen took
guns, and went upon the beach to shoot gulls and ducks.
Aunt Margery sat down to crimp the border of her new
cap. Mrs. Rockford was busy in performing a thou-
sand useless things, but anything to keep the 'mind
employed is' better than to sit down and do nothing.
Miss Frances took Sebastian and Jupe, and went to
play. Carlo kept guard at the entrance of the dining-
room. The numerous cais and pigeons about the prem-
ises were not too good to displace many .a thing and

78

Ay _
,-k
I
i
1
'} F
y1
1
7
-                 'f
l

spoil it. Miss Roxana Fairfield, who had a mind of a
literary caste, sat down to write a letter to one of her
female friends in Colonna. As we have the liberty, let
us look over her shoulder while she writes. It is said
that time discovers all things; let us rather take it by
the fore-lock in. this instance.
But, gentle reader, do not imagine that you are doing
a very praise-worthy action in prying into the secrets of
others. If you can keep your own, it is well; but it is
almost impossible for you to keep those of your friends.
There are really but few secrets kept. You may trace
out, by enquiry, a solution almost to everything. But
let us give everything its due. There is a society ex-
isting among us which has kept secrets from time imme-
morial. * The very actions of Solomon and his wise men
are known to that society, and even to its neophytes.
Who will say that mankind is unfaithful, when MASON-
RY has withstood the ravages of time?  But, by Miss
Roxana's leave, we will look over her shoulder as she
writes. it may throw some light upon our novel.
"ROCKFORD HousE, 'April 15th, 18-.
"Dear Relen :-When I left our beautiful. town of
Colonna, only three weeks since, you exacted a promise
from me that I would write you often, if my stay at
Rockford house should be prolonged. I trust you will
excuse me, my dear friend, when I confess to you that
since my arrival at this romantic place, my mind has
been so occupied by the sight of new scenes, whiah are
truly enchanting, that I have been seemingly derelict
in the performance of sacred duties. Upon this beau-

79

ROCKFORD.

4


80

ROCKFORD.

tiful morning,-which bids fair to be the happiest day of
my life, I am seated in my well furnished apartment,
writing, to you; my dear Helen, who hav6 shared my
bliss and divided my sorrows from our early childhood.
The window of my apartment commands a fine view of
the Atlantic, and I can distinctly see the briny billows
as they chase 'each other to the beach. Mr. Rockford
and our male friends, who attended us here, are out
upon the beach, waging war upon the gulls and ducks.
The report of their fowling-pieces is distinctly heard
every few minutes.
"To-night we are to have a grand party ; but I shall
not anticipate. It may not be uninteresting to you to
have a short rehearsal of every thing we have done, seen
and heard- since we left Colonna.
"We women are such queer creatures, that we are not
satisfied with an outline ; we must have the particulars
of every scene. You shall     be deprived of that
pleasure, dearest, if what I - rite may convey to you a
faint idea of our trip to thi place, and 'what we have
been doing since. our,. arrival. You remember, Helen,
how we were amused at the exhibitions .of a magician,
who came to Colonna several years ago ; and with what
rapidity he changed and varied his performances? How
we clapped our hands and laughed, and were.almost dizzy
at beholaingsthe extraordinary feats of his magic lan-
tern? It is true they were simple enough, and could
have been performed by almost any skillful man, yet
first, impressions are the most lasting, and we have ever
considered ,Mons. De Luce as the greatest man we have

U

ROKFORD..

81

ever seen: My mind has been a mirror of -late, upon
which many' scenes have been reflected. You need not
prepare yourself toiread a secret, my friend, for you
are aware that 'I am not fend of telling them.
"But to begin'with the beginning. I. believe you
have -never traveled from Colonna to "this plase. A
description of'the trip may help me to fill up the sheet;
for .I 'do abhor ,the idea 'of sending a letter to a corres-
pondent only half filled up. I can judge from my own
feelings. - It irates me to receive only a few hurried
lines from a dear' friend.'\ I feel like re-enclosing" a
short, uninteresting epistle to the author. But Ishall
not keep you in suspense.
Our trunks were packed with as much care as we
usually bestow upon such'matters, (and you know, Helen,
you and I have spent three blessed days in packing our
trunks,' when we were tipon the point of 'leaving our
homes to go to college,) and, all things having beeiipire-
pared for our departure, my dear mother, sister Fannie
and your.tormentor were, politely handed into the family
carriage by the1  ,'kind Mr. Watson and your waggish
friend, Mr. Judson. Those worthy young i'nen hadac-
cepted of an.invitation from mother to be our attendants.
They followed our carriage in a buggy; and we left the
village. of Colonna with joyful hearts:' We' had not
been from home in a long time, and, to "confess, the
truth, Ihad become so' heartily tired out with Colonna,
that I had arrived at' the same conclusion with Alexan-
der Selkirk,   '   ''
't is better to dwell in the midst of alarms,
Than to reign in this hQrrible place.'

+
k;J  S                         1,        a


.RROCKFORD.

"Do not suppose, dearest, that I wish to cast- any
aspersions upon the fame .of our town.. Far from it ;,
but ,I longed to beholdd other scenes, and I left my home
with a joyful heart- We were soon out of Colonna,
and were passing through a beautiful country. The
high, saridy ridges were densely covered with the tall,
stately pines. As I leaned my head out of the window
of the carriage, and listened to the mournful sighing of
those Leviathans of the forest, I became almost sad;
but then they are crowned with foliage all- the year
round, and look so beautiful, especially in the Spring,
when they put on. a new, dress.' Their tasselated leaves
do not wither, but at the appointed time they are forced
to give place to the younger shoot.
" You have no idea, dearest Helen, how many beau-
tiful streams we crossed. We could see the fish playing
upon the pebbly beds., 'When we -ould get. out at such
places to rest the horse we would cast, pebbles at- the
fish. They would dart off under their retreat at the
bank,' but when we threw themsome.crumbs, they would
come very near' us.. One large trout  eame to. the sur-
face to get a chicken bone which Fannie threw into the
stream, when Mr. Judson, who is never better employed
than when engaged in sport, gave him so severe a blow-
with"the big end of his whip, that. the scaly victim was
killed outright.        -
"We passed many fine residences. I was surprised
to see so much magnificence displayed in the country.
* Those who reside in such lovely retreats, with .every
convenience around them, should never despair of en-

joyment. If I could-exchange my residence in Colonna
for a retreat, like some I saw when I came to this place,
I could spend my life ,so pleasantly..
"By eleven o'clock in the morning, we arrived at Mr.
Rockford's stately mansion, having left Colonna at sun-
rise. We were scarcely six hours upon the road, though
our .speed had not been great. But you know how very
careful mother is of her horses. She would not travel
more than four miles an hour to gratify us or any per-
son else. Mr. Roekford came and welcomed us wjth
such a becoming grace, and his wife has been so agree-
able, that I shall be soiry when the time comes for us to
return to Colon~na.
"We' have had delightful drives about the town, and
pleasant excursions in the sail-boats. Numerous friends
have called to see us, and we have repaid their visits.
I wish you could see Sebastian Rockford! lHe is one of
the prettiest boys I have ever beheld. He is truly and
wonderfully intelligent. :His parents love him so fondly
that I am afraid something will happen "to the child.
But what a oolish saying that is, Helen, as if the love
one bears to a child should not rather be a protection
than a misfo -tane.
"I have a most filled my.sheet, yet I have told you
only a few of.the many things I have seen. As I inti-
mitated to you, in the beginning of  this letter, that we
were to have a magnificent party to-night in honor of our
visit, please allow me ^to put a period to this hastily.
written letter. If I am not too much fatigued, I will
write you again to-morrow.
In'the mean tire, dearest, think of me 'as your very
especial friend,            ROXANA FAIRFIELD.

{

ROCKFORD.

82

gg

' .
:
,
"           7
4
Y
,
c
:[
r
,
i  '


84

RQCKFORD.

CH APPER IX.
When Mr. Rockford and his "two' friends had filled
their game-bags with as many birds as they chose to
carey'they directed their steps homeward, well pleased
with the morning's sport. There are many birds to be
found upon the sea-shore which can be scarcely ranked
among the aquatic tribe. They not unfrequently wage
war with the Grallatores, which, after wadinginto the
water and capturing their prey, are ruthlessly deprived
of -the'p:roceeds of their labor. The Snipe, the smallest
species of the Grallatores, is a timid and cautious bird.
The slightest motion of 'the hunter Will cause it to seek
safetyit flight. Some bird-hunters suppose that the
oldfbit and steel lock guns are. not quick enough in
explo ing to kill them. Be that as it,'may, they are not
easily bagged. The Partridge, of the'order Gallinw:,
family Tetraonido, are generally found in low countries.
They resemble our barn-yard fowl, are war-likein their
disposition, attacking. any animal, which may disturb
their young. They are generally shot upon the wing
by sportsmen, who train their pointers to the task of
flushing them. They go in flocks, and,, except in the
laying season, when they are only foundin pairs, fifty
or' sixty may be seen in one flok. They are fond of
grain;'but, like other birds,.are. equally satisfied with

'I

I 1

r
n
i
5
1
;i

Ia

s:

'4

E

.; ;   x

ROGKFORD)                    85
insects. Their flesh is sweet and wholesome, and he is
no Epicure who refuses a 'roasted Partridge.
The bags of the huntsmen were filled with Ducks and
Partridges, with -a few Wood-oks d Snipes.
'4Here' are some deliacies, Josephine," said Mr.
Rockford. "Have a few of the choice birds served up
for dinner."
'' Your success' has been commensurate with-your de-
sires, one would think, from the great number o the
feathered tribe you have slain," said ' Miss Roxana to
Mr. Watson.
"Indeed, madain," replied the.gallant, "'we have not
sported this morning to no Kpurpose. I have scarcely
ever seen birds more plentiful. We tookour nations,
hidden from view by the copse, and when a Du4k would
light near us, Mr. Rockford would .request one of us to
shoot it, and enjoin upon the other to be ready to fire
upon the birds on shore, which, of a suiety, were 'on-
cealed all around us in clusters."a-
Here an interesting lecture upon the subject of orni-
thology, by Mr.,Rockford, occupied the time' that inter-
vned 'until the dinner hour. When that meal had been
duly discussed, the friends sepai-ated, to meet no more
until the arrival of the guests for the party.
At the usual hour for fashionable gatherings to con-
vene, the extensive parlord and reception rooms were
crowded with the numerous guests. Every one in the
town, who ,made an pretensions to gentility, was invi-
ted. If any deserving persons had been neglected, it
was not the fault of the Rockfords. The fashionable;


4 4

ROOIFQRD.

the gay and the grave were represented.   The aged
attended their children,'to see them duly initiated into.
the mysteries of fashionable society., The belles of the
own were dresses     the finest silks, satins and em-
broidered nuslins". Those maidens; to whom Nature
had not beeii so'lavish of its charms, supplied the de-
fects by the bea tiful colors of 'the toilet-box.
When Josephus Napoleon Bonaparte Snibbens con-
ducte4 Miss Jerusha Smith into the parlor, nothing but
god feeding prevented an outburst of laughter.  The
appearance of' this strange couple was anything but
prepossessing. Miss *erusha was very stately, being
several inches taller in person than her pedantic escort.
The superfluity of bows, flounces and lacesof her dress,
did not fail to attract the attention of those, even, who
were notconnoisseurs in the art of haberdashery. Like
some ,jewellers, who seek to make a display by wearing
numberless rings and pins, Miss Jerusha, who was a
niilliner, hod surely made herself, upon that occasion,
a locomotive sign post for they display of 'her goods.
Mr Snibbens had been studying the costume, as well as
the attitude of the first Napoleon. Buff pants, a vest
4fdthe same material, and4 a blue frock coat, cut in the
try military style, mud fastened in front, with military
-buttons, sit off the,{ ure of the namesake of the "little
coporalp   Snibbens seated his charge, and commenced
discoursing his acquaintances upon abstruse sciences
generally;.
a ersation sOen became general and the modest
reserve that naturally restrains the guests when they

i I
86

t
s
T
1
e
L
i
t
V
AA
lfl
S

ROOKPORD.                   87
first enter a parlor, gave place,to fluent discourse. Sam
uel Ctiverhouse and his ancient spouse were there, pre-
pared to listen to the conversation of the guests of
their own age, and to collect all the little news-items
that were afloat in the town. Samuel and Dorothy were
an amiable, but homely couple. As a certain wag has
facetiously said, those two made a pai. Samuel's blue
domestic suit, which had only been worn .seventeen
years, appeared to rather, better advantage upon that
occasion than usual, thanks to the renovating ordeal
that all household goods were subjected to by the excel-
lent Dorothy. She never permitted anything to go' to
waste about her ; far from it. She had taken off the
fourteen yard border of her antique cap, washed it in
milk-warm water with a little weak soap, carried it
through a course of mysteries, quilled it up, as she had
done an hundred times before,,and sewed it back again.
Her silver spectacles, with the large circular glasses
never became her better than they did on the night of
the party. She held in her hand a large ttarkey-tail
fan, bound' with blue morocco. The good old couple
said but few words, but they we-? busily compiling in-
formation to be used on future occasions, perhaps at the
breakfast table on the next morning.
The Misses Fairfield were arrayed in costly but pfain
'dresses, and received an abundance of- attention from
the young gentlemen. Their good sense' and fine ac=
complishments fitted them for the adornment of the
most polite and elegant circles in which they had been
accustomed to move. The grace with which they re-


88                 ROCK1FORD.
ceived the addresses of their friends, might be attributed
to the  excellent training they had received from their
parents.  One of the young men,: who' vas conversing
with. Miss. Roxanaescorted her to the piano. -While
the company:was. entertained by the music, several in-
teresting.scenes were being enacted in' the room.. An
old'gentleman, wo was noted for his' wealth, had two
daughters present.. The'Misses Slocum were the belles
of. Crofton, :and were as, much .sought after for their
wealth as for any accomplishments they possessed. Mr.
Slocum was very corpulent, and his manners exceeding-
ly stiff and. starchy.. His daughters were obedient dis-
'ciples, and early imbibed the exalted 'notions of their.
parents.. The. young men' of Crofton, who were not
wealthy, were not welcome guests at Slocum hall.  Sb-
qum had instructed ;his daughters, before arriving at
Mr. ROckford's;.not to receive any advances from young
lawyer' Spingles, or from Dr. Montage, as they were
both very poor.- -'He had never been pleased with their
visits to his house. When he took his seat,' and ob-
served that both of the'young men named were present,
he felt'disguieted. He enjoined upon his wife the ne-
cessity of keeping a' iict surveillance over Amelia and
Jula during the evening. He was not kept long in
suspense, for Spingles 'waf casting furtive glances in the
direction of the Slocum circle. Miss Amelia reddened,
her fatlyer grew angry, and her, mothe  darted basilisk
glances at Spingies.
"Here he comes,; wife," said Slocum. ."Just leave
him to ne. ' I will not let him enjoy the company of
ourdaughter very long.'

-
"°z
;,
.r
t
;
,
-:
;
._

Spingles, who was a young man of sterling worth,
but poor and proud, now approached and saluted each
member of' the Slocum family, and .seated himself' be-
side Miss Amelia., He had scarcelypassed the compli-
ments of the evening, when Slocum, after having made
an attack upon his gold snuff-box, which he-never neg-
lected to display upon all occasions, addressed- Spingles
after the following style:
"You have. only been residing in the. town a few
years, I believe, Mr. Spingles?"
"Four years next Fall," said the young mnan.
. Where did you graduate, sir.?  My sons all grad-
uated at Yale College," rejoined the irated Slocum.
"-Indeeed, sir," replied Spingles, "I must confess
that I had not the advantages of a' collegiate course."
"Pity, pity, sir ; but you cannot expect to arrive' at
distinction. .A young man without wealth, or the pres-
tige 'of family influence, cannot aspire to lofty positions
in society."
"Truly, sir," said Spingles, "I am at a loss to com-
prehend you. I cannot believe that you desire to offend
me, but your conversation has assumed a strange form
for a social circle. I despise the.aristocracy-of wealth,
' r the false position a young man tries to assume by the
aid of family influence. , If *'tour remarks are intended
to apply to' my penniless circumstances, I must ask the
pardon of. your exalted reverence, promising not again
to place myself in p position to receive an affront from
} an ill-mannered aristocrat."
Slocum was nonplussed. He endeavored to explain,,

ROCKFORD.            89


'

but the young man turned a deaf ear to his confused
apology, and passed into another circle. The Slocums
did 'not enjoy themselves as well as they anticipated, as
.they screened themselves from the contact- of their in-
feriors; their equals (in Wealth) had but little to gain
in seeking their confidence.
Mr. Rockford.and his good lady passed from room to
room, endeavoring to render their guests comfortable
and entirely at home. Watson and Judson were' de-
lighted with the pleasant company. They proved them,
selves particularly interesting to several yonng ladies,
whose acquaintance they had formed several days before.
Aunt Margery gave entertainment to the. old folks, who
chiefly assembled in a parlor apart from the gay young
men and women. Sebastian, and a few. juveniles, en-
joyed themselves in the nursery, as the mother had set
a table there for their especial benefit.
Rockford house. was indeed filled with merriment.
The long piazza was crowded with promenades, who
chose to. pass, an hour thus in social chit-chat. The
moon shone brightly upon some wh  stepped out 'upon
the terrace:to pluck- a .flower, or tb whisper the soft
words of first love.
',Time flew by on golden winglts," and still pleasure
fanned the cheek of every one that sought it. The
haughty fe*w   QYrthrew themselves upon their dignity,
as was the customof the Slocums, were almost entirely
overlooked and neglected.  Some gathered 'around the
chess and whist tables, others engaged in lively conver-
sation. Snibbens let off superfluoius quantities of gas.

to the edification of some, but to the amusement or dis-
gusL of the more refined., The old folks heartily longed
for supper time to come. Samuel and Dorothy were
anxious to see the table, and the former fully intended
to-do the subject full justice..
It was whispered around that there would be a sur-
prise, as-they termed it, immediately after supper, but
it was not ascertained what the performance would con-
sist of. Every one was in suspense, when the announce-
ment for supper was made. There was a general rush
for partners, and the long hall was crowded almost to
suffocation. When the magnificent feast was concluded
and the company had repaired to the parlors again, Mr.
Rockford invited the ladies to walk up to the rooms upon
the second flgor.
Mr. Rockford was rather opposed to making an aris-
tocratic display upon any occasion, but he'wished to
amuse his guests.- He had invited a few select and
tasty friends, of both sexes, to his house, a few .days
before the party, and they had gotten up some tableaux
and charades. After two or three rehearsals,.they were
prepared for the representation. A temporary stage,
some scenery and a drop-curtain were prepared.
Tableaux-vivants! What could it. mean ? .asked a
hundred persons of Snibbens, who was the oracle of a
certain class in the town. Snibbens had not "looked
out " the word, and was at his row's end. He scratched
his head, bit his pale lips, and said nothing. .One of
the young men supposed it meant table-turning, or some-
thing of that' kind, he was not exactly certain. Uncle

M1
T
pyj
}
1,F
r
,   .
t  _
rSx

k

ROOKFORD.

90

ROOKl' ORD ,

91


. 92                RoolnF'OD.                                                           IOKOD

93

Samuel told them. they would learn what it meant by
waiting, as he was sure Mr. Rockford meant not, only
to amuse, but to instruct them. Dorothy, having drank.
five or six glasses of wine and syllabub, fell fast asleep,
supported by the stalwart .arm1 of her husband. At
length the curtain rose,: and revealed an interesting
group. An officer, rather beyond the prime of life,
stood gazing at a departing ship.. Several were looking
upon him with sorrowful)countenances. A harpist re-
clined upon:his instrument; several attendants were
represented as weeping. The tableau was complete
the curtain dropped. It.was Napoleon at the island of
St. Helena.  Snibbens was charmed. He recognized
the god of his .adoration. He had overheard a gentle-
man tell another the meaning of " tableaux-vivants, 'and
he was now explaining it to several around him.
The curtain rose 'again#and revealed the: inside of a'
prison. . A tall, finely formed man, dressed in the cos-
tume of the Elizabethan age, was clasping the hands of
a lady, and imprinting a kiss upon her brow. The sul-
len wardefi held the massive bunch of keys in one hand,
and beheld the scene with feelings of indifference. A
file of soldiers awaited without, holding their muskets,
with match-locks, prepaid for any emergencies." The.
fetters had bgen taken from the ankles of the distin-
guished personage, but his wrists were secured with a
chain. His maiiuscripts and books revealed his studious
habits. The taper was burning at his table. It was
Sii Walter Rileigh taking leave of. his wife on the
morning of his execution.

After the performers had exhibited quite a numbers
of excellent tableaux, Mr. Rockford announced that a
few charades or rebuses would be represented. While
the company were waiting for the curtain to rise, the
orchestra discoursed sweet music. There is nothing so
acceptable as music when the mind is free from care;
there is nothing so soothing as music when the mind is
troubled with care. Let the dulcet strains of an R olian
harp, or the wild warbling notes of an inspired child of
song lull us to slumber, when. our souls are sad.
The curtain rose again. A triumphal arch, covered
with roses and vines, was on the stand. A conqueror
passed under it, while the ladies and children threw gar-
lands at his feet. The scene was changed, and a group
of shepherds, in oriental costume, appeared. They con-
versed apart, as if expecting something wonderful to
happen. They had heard some UQavenly music, and
expected a vision., Suddenly a crimson light flashed
across the stage, and an angel, appeared. The shep-
herds fled, and the scene closed. Archangel was the
subject.
Many were the representations, and the company dis-
persed.not until the small hours warned them to seek
their homes. The party was pronounced, by'every one,
to be a decided success. All who were present wished
a long and happy life to Mr. Rockford, whose chief de-
light appeared to be that of dispelling sorrows, and dis-
pensing hlessings upon his race.
He is a noble -benefactor, who, instead of sinking his
friends in the sea of trouble, will take them by the hand

4

ROOKFORD.

r,
-;
', k
,


94             ROCOFORD.

and lift them 'to his own leyel. Remember, kind read-
er, you were sent to bless, not to curse mankind. "This
is a moving world, and the scenes are ever changing.
You can not remain an idle spectator, while the drama
of life is performed. You must stern the tide or the
current may bear you off.

CHAPTER        X.
A few days subsequent to the party, aunt Margery
and her company bade.adieu to the  od folks of Rock-
ford house, and sought the pleasant town of Colonna,
having been absent from their home much longer than
they anticipated. Quiet was again restored to the town
of Crofton. The escape of Royston had given place to
the 'week's conversation to which Rockford festival had-
given rise. There was nothing out of the routine of
the ordinary affairs of life, worthy of notice,. in the
place for several weeks. At length, Hans Kremple re-
ceived a letter without a signature, but he knew from a
glance that Royston was the, author of it. We take
the liberty of laying the contents of the letter before
our readers:
"POINT PEAR, May 10th, 18-.
"Dear lans:-I am here, in this, sylvan retreat,
enjoying the beautiful scenery and as, many of the lux-
uries'of life as I wish, for the present. The close con-
finement of the prison had almost wrecked my copsti-
tution ; but, thanks to the salubrious atmosphere ofthis
healthy retreat, I have regained my accustomed strength.
It is true, that I ai indebted to you for the fortunate
escape I made from, confinement. The saw you gao-
me performed the task most admirably, and indeed you

ROCKFORD              95

1
r
A
i


96

ROOKFORD,

playedyyou ; p:',with much, tact, or I should not now,
be permitted  tite this letter-to you.
"When TIp ted 'with you.on that eventful night, I
followed the directions you gave me, and found jolly
Ben awaiting my arrival'with much anxiety. I sprang.
upon the horse he had prepared for me, and. we were
soon, beyond the vicinity of a place which had bpt few
charms'for me. It was broad daylight when wear-
rived at Hermit's Retreat. Our friends were expecting
me, and were prepared to face any danger that might
present itself on my account. The tears stole down
my own cheeks, as I, beheld them weep at once more
beholding me. .They' pressed around- and embraced me,
and almost devoured me with kind offices.  .
I dispatched a hasty meal,' change my apparel, re-
ceved a supply of gold from the strong box, had my
hair. snd whiskers: curtailed, and- mounted my black
charger and left my..fiends; to seek the covert of some
wild retreat.. ,Iam fully one hundred miles from you,
but at present it is not exactly' prudent, for any of our
mento. conie here. I am spending my time at the house
of,'a good fimer,, who has taken quite .a fancy to me.
Yuifwould laugh at me, 'were I to tell you 'under. what
name I am known to him. My profession or avocation
t .me as well as yours does you. I can tune pianos
Sperformupon several Instruments nearly as well as
y    an repair watches of make saws.
k    w   p,,o go to our friends and tell themI am safe. When
ih fpocers shall have quit scouring the country for 'me,
thiimay pay them a visit. I have read my descrip-

ROCFOD.

tion in several papers which the old far, c bring home
with him from the rural post-office.  ear those spec-
tacles you gave me, and if you were to meet me upon
the highway, it is not probable that you would recognize
your leader.
"The killing of Winslow has placed a heavier burden
upon my soul than any crime I ever committed ; yet I
&amp;we Rockford a grudge. He shall yet have cause to
remember Carl Royston.
..'When I write you again, you shall have a descrip-
tion of my present retreat.. You must iot laugh at me,
Hans, for counterfeiting an honest occupation. I prefer
to undergo even the hardest labor iniaginable, to remain-
ing in a close prison.. Who would be deprived of the
skies one hour, if within his power to be free?. We
have lakes and small streams here, filled.with an abun-
dance of fish. The scenery around y.retreathere,'is
wild and beautiful. The hills are elevated almost to
the height of mountains.- Iam enjoying myself .as well
as I ever did. I am almost tempted, sometimes, to
cut the acquaintance of suchscape ,grace.. as .you .and
Heinrich; but then I know,that you would get your-
selves into scrapes you could never be, exticated £rom
without my assistance. IDo not fear treacb ry from me.
I'shall prove true to the end. Caution the boys to
make no more sallies in the direction of Crofton until
J come among them. Address. me at Pointy Peakas
Monsieur Henri Deyeaux, as that is my asanmedpme."
When Hans read the letter, he smiled, . ad seemed
much pleased at the news it contained.  aie soughtot.

97

,
y
kr}
if


98 - O1FORD.
Heinrich, who .had an office not far from his own. -Hein-
rich was' steiibly a painter; but his employees per-
formed more work than lie did. He was 'dispatched to
the retreat to'convey 'the information that Royston was
safe, and would be with them at no distant. day.
Han Kremple way a jolly fellow, who might have
been a good citizen and a useful man, but fate had early
decreed'that he should be a thief. He had so early
forgotten the distinction between his own goods. and
those of'his neighbors, that he had~arrived at the con-
clusion that what he filched from those who could afford
to lose it, if applied to good purposes, amounted to no
crime. It was through his instrumentality that Roys-
ton had been seduced from his upright course, and made
the intrepid leadersof a lawless band of robbers. Hein-
rich was another young man, whom the influences of
Hans had beguiled into evil habits.
So well concealed had been the manoeuvres of these
lawless wights, thattsuspicion had not even rested upon
them. Indeed, so contrary was the sentiment of the
citizens of Crofton,: as related to the fidelity of Hans,
that'he was generally considered to be a man of strict
honesty.: Upon 'one occasion, when he was returning
front' a peddling tour, he entered the town and reported
that a banasof robbers had waylaid and robbed him of
some of his wares. "No fox, that ever. escaped the
huntsman by artifice, had'more cinningly devised plans
than Hans had..
H  frequently reported skirmishes that the citizens
of the community had had with the banditti, but, under

a
3
'f
F
7
t
t

99

his lead, the officers of the'law were always led in the
direction contrary to the place of hostilities.
Hans had the happy faculty of attending parties, and
making himself perfectly agreeable. He prided him-
self upon being a judge of jewelry, 'but not being:
contented to risk his judgment at a hasty glance, it was
natural for him to take several silver forks and spoon
home with him from those parties, to put them to a
strict test. He was never known to return them to
their right owners. It arose, probably, from leis being
very absent minded.- Taken all in 'all, Hans was a rare
genius. You might travel over two continents without
finding his equal. He reminded one, of the prig, Sir
Walter Scott described as being a man with so generous
a heart, that he stole. a quantity If clothes to keep the
moths from eating them. Hans kept a fine store, and
many customers' flocked to itF to purchase fine wares,
.and have their jewelry repaired. If some of them re-
cognized matches to lost spoons, forks and' silver cups,
oh! indulgent reader, do not impute it to any thing but
chance.
But as some authors have said, that thereaare no things
similar or like unto each other, except, the same, we
may at once infer that the philosophy of chance is at
an end when brought to bear upon the-actions of Hans.
At any rate, by' artifice and cunning, he managed to
life above suspicion.
He pondered several days upon the reply'it behooved
him to return to the communication he had received from
Royston, and, after torturing his brain for a suitable angeu
swer, the following was agreed upon:

("

ROCKFORD.

N


100

ROOKFGRD'

Q"oToN, May 15th, 18-.
"Ji    r carl:- I was beginning tokbe lowin spirits in
regar4t&amp;your safety and welfare, when the post brought
~eu orevery acceptablerletter'. I could scarcely, con-
oeive,however, that one-so accunstomed, to. the ways of
the 'world.as you are, should be at a loss, for acmoment,
how to steer his bark.', I sometintis feel-the goadings of
conscience,,'upon reflecting that I am the chief instru-
ment of your-ruin.; but,,then, every action is not viewed
through the sam-e medium. ;What is termed honesty
with some men, is downright villainy with others. I
pave been led to believe that the right of property con-
sist s in a. great degree, in the strongest owner. What
you or others, think in relation to the same,; is only a
difference of option, and you are entitled to your judg-
ment.
"Thestown is perfectly quiet in regard to your escape,
yo . may believe. I was not in town when the news was
circulated ; but upon my arrival, the day after, JL-raised
a squad ofmen, who scoured the countryin the portion
thatit was morally certain you had not gone to. Rest
assured..of one thing:that your friends; here will use
every texertion to keep your retreat-an entire secret from
the beagles of thelaw.
The se .a  grand  demonstration  at  the house  of
Y    eemy only a few Xdays since. The whole party-
population of the place had an. inVitation to the
piity.   hat the ffairgwas magnificent one, none can
d xt. :lch a prograime.was never enacted before in
l thisplace. YouTknow me too well to believe that I.let

A

i
A
ti ,,
k
t'
§'
S
i
k
1
2-
F
fi
t

an opportunity slip of adding a few things to umy com-
mon stock. It cost me'only a few strokes of the seaper
to efface the name of Rockford from several fine article
of great value.- I sold one piece of silver that founda
lodgment in- one of-my pockets upon that memorab
night, for enough to maintain your - humble servant a
long time.
"II shall expect to hear from you again at no very
distant day. In the meantime, believe me,
 "Yours very sincerely,-
"HANs KRIMPLE."
For the space of several months,. the officers of jus-
tice were upon the alert to discover the lurking place of
the fugitive; but so well had the whole affair been rian-
aged, it was firmly believed that- he had fled from the
country. If suspicion had rested upon the robbers
(whom the bestraid stratagems had,'- as- yet, failed to
entrap) as afordmg an asylum to the convicted felon
that suspicion only aroused those lawlessmen to greater
vigilance in eluding pursuit. Hans-took it into his hea&amp;
to go and see his friends at Hermit's Retreat. He had
been denied that privilge so long, that the company of
honest men had become irksome to him.' He was soon
provided with a vehicle capable-of conveying whatever
articles of merchandise he6 thought, pr-per to sell-
traveled. He journeyed for a few t:iles upoa a±
not likely to conduct him to-the Herniit'sRetreat, hu
like a cunning fox,'he soon Changed'his  es nd a
rived safely at the' place of his destination in a few
hours=

4

i0

ROCKFORD.

,u
f
Y
:ft


ROCKFORD.

The appearance of the house was by.no means pre-
possessing, nor-was it remarkable for huge proportions
or elegance of structure. It had only six rooms, and, to
all    arances, it was the residence of an unpretend-
infaramer, or a' country hotel. "Hilton House" was
the rude sign that vibrated, at the pleasure of the wind.
Dame Elspeth and her husband were the ostensible pro-
prietors, the former, taking almost the entire chargeof
the business. When Hans'drove up and alighted from
his vehicle, ,dame Elspeth, who ,was a: ,tidy, smart old
woian, adjusted' her spectacles, and surveyed the new-
comer with a very scrutinizing glance. When she re-
cognized him, her, countenance cleared up, and she
hastened to welcome.him.
"'Why, bless your body, Hans, is it really you that's
come;this way once more-? It's truly a long time since
arbody has seen ye.' I was sure some one was coming,
for :.y nose -has been itching the blessed day.".
tIsans was ushered into the reception room, and Els-
petrprepared for him a hasty, though well served repast.
Dandie Doane, the husband of Elspeth, soon came in
fr n his work and informed Hans that six of the friends
bad been absent eafew days, but were expected at home
i    that."vening.. . ' hey should prove successful in their
RIP    s, nsit wasmore thanrobale they would return
h rich nooty.
di'sdeclarations were shortly verifiedd by the ar-
bfseveral men on horseback, followed by a wagon,
fbicli'as drawn by two stout horses. The driver had
-°ll the appearance of a country lut returning from

market with his year's supplies, but a person versed in
physiognomy would have arrived at a different conclu-
sion. The whole group presented a motley appearance
indeed ; but when they recognized Hans, they threw-off
their reserve and appeared in their true character. Ben
Harley was the leader of this lawless band of men in the
absence of Royston. He was a man above the medium
size, thick set and well, muscled.. His face and care-
worn brow indicated that he had passed the meridian of
life. His long, bushy beard and dark, flowing hair gave
him a remarkable appearance, and his black, sparkling
eye was sufficient of itself to designate him 'as a bold,
dauntless man.
It was night, and the sable curtains were drawn darkly
around "Hilton House."    Dandie Doane and dame.
Elspeth spread the festive board in, one of the rooms
remote'from intrusion. The old folks,-at the command
of Ben Harley, brought out the wines and several kinds
of stronger spirituous liquors, and retired to keep watch.:
After several glasses had. been drunk by the. company,
Ben commanded three of the men to look after the goods,
they had taken, and have them conveyed quietly to the
cave, and to remove every' appearance and. vestige of
their arrival. Two of the more trusty menu were per
emitted to .remain with him and Hans, as the 'latter was
a confidential friend of the gang whose society they .
dom enjoyed.
"Come, Ben," said Hans, "you have often promised
to relate your advefrtures to me, but it has never been
entirely' convenient until now. Will you not gratify me,
this time-it will help to while away 'an hour so pleas.
antly ? "

ROCKFORD.

102

103


1Y4

ROCKFORTh!

'CHAPTER XI.
First oatlaw. -' Fellows, stand fast ; I gee a prisoner."
Second outlaw.-" If there be ten, shrink not, but down with 'em."
Enter Valentine and Speed.
Tldrd  tla.-" S~tand, sir, and throw us that you haye about you;
nifnot, w'il inakeyouisit, and rifle you."
we are undone! these are. the villains that all the travy
stir:dofeir so muchh"
Two Gentlemen of Verona.
stanm  enthus importuned, Ben Harley arose from his
Se~atandeet to the door ; acd having satisfied himself
thst n  eaves-dropper was lurking around the house, he
bright both the loek and the bolt into requisition' to
praergta surp1gis. 'He drank another glass of brandy,
an  es   ning i$seat atthe fable, thus began.
"'Yonnust prepare your mind. dear Hans, to hear
no6miden' , toyy.   My father resided in this State,
wad was surriniaded with the comforts if notrthe luxulies
'     Of ife. Iie wa: kind andixdulgent to     is servants,
ny brothers teemed to possess his love in so great
-waesrel th4xtheir presence was indispensable to his
ess    ut, strange to say, he conceived a dislike
almost from the hour of my birth, as my mother
dme; ;d I have feeling recollections of having
rte  ed .unmeeiful castigations from his hands ere I
haderivedF.1th    age of discerning right from wrong.

U'

ROCKFORI.

105

Well do I remember the stern looks and cruel reproofs
he bestowed upon my other, when, almoAt frantic, she
rescued me from his clutches.' Yet was I gentle and
obedient to the tyrant; never daring to speak to him ek&amp;
cept when interrogated. My motherwas my onlyfriend.
Without the angelic love she manifested for me; and:the
matronly care she bestowed upon me when not restrain-
ed by her husband,:my slender 'frame would have re-
posed beneath the sod of the church yard ere I had
passed my first decade. My brothers hatednie from the.
sympathy they possessed for our father, whose love they
had never dividedwith me. I was the unfortunate re-
cipient of their unremitting abuses, and they compelled
me to carry their books to and from school as if I had
been a hired servant. I"complained to my mother of
their unnatural treatment,- but received only her tears
for consolation, with a promise that she 'would entreat
my father to intercede in my behalf. "Instead of an'
amelioration of the unfraternal manner in which my
brothers acted towards me, it really seemed as if. they
were bent upon my destruction.
"It is an old adage, and a true one, that 'a hair will
break a camel's back.' I had borne the iniults, kicks
and rebuffs of those graceless boys so long, that 'I'was f
determined to be submissive no more.' My heart sank
within me, and I was almost frantic with grief; ag4if
I could not place a:perfd to our unhappy interdcnse,
I was fully prepared to 'make the effort and abide the
consequences.' One evening, we had scarcely left the
old rustic school house on our return home, when my

;.
:


106:

itOOKFORD.

tonrentors insisted upon loading me, as usual, with
theibrbooksIand buckets, avowing that they desired to'
playat-hide-and-seek among the huge pines sand ,oaks.
tha'-shaded the grove through which our path led. I
demared to their injuintionsnd positively refused to
accommodate 'them. They commenced an abusive   ade
against me. I retorted, and my courage soon rose to
fever heat. The trio came at me under full charge, but
I parried their blows, returning several well aimed
strokes with ,my slate.. I succeeded in keeping them at
bay until several of our fellow students came 'to my
rescue. I had almost killed my brother George by an,
unluky strokeof the slate, , hose 'edges had been de-
prived of the frame during4he encounter..
The blood was streaming from a severe wound upon
his head,' when my father. came up.. My brother was
conveyed home almost senseless.. I sought ,the protec-
tion of my mother, believing that niy father would never
listen at my version of the unfortunate difficulty. I
wasot kept long in suspense. My father searched. for
andfound the instrument of torture, which was a huge
leathern .whip  I was dragged, nearer dead than alive,
from wthe protection of my only. friend, and made to en-
dure' the strokes'of the whip, until I sank upon the floor
perfectly senseless. When I revived, I was lyIng upon
my trundle bed, and my mother was bending over me,
weig bitterly, After satisfying herself that I was
out of danger, she imprinted a sweet kiss upon my burn-'
4      ing lips, and bidding me good night, departed to the
privacy.of her own chamber.

ROCKFORD.

107

.My resolution was soon formed. The candle my
sainted mother had left upon thetable, was yet burning.
I rose and listened. All was quiet in the house. I
slipped easily upon tip-toe to the chamber of my broth-
ers, whoslept in the room adjoining mine.  crept to
the bed, and by the light of the moon which shone into
the .rodm, I-discovered that George slept sweetly. Hlis
head was bound up, but from the regularity of his
breathing, and from the absence of fever as indicated
by. the feelivg of his hand, I was certain that he was
out of danger. I kissed him ,tenderly as he he slept,
and goin to the couch of my two youngest brothers, I
performed the same kind oaice for them and crept back
to my room.
"I was not long in forming a bundle of someof my
clothes. I extinguished the light, and stealing softly
through.the parlor, I left the house of my father, not
knowing when I should again return.
"Years passed, an1 I had traveled over many States.
I had grown up almost a vagrant. I, had been a sailor.
Our ship was taken by pirates, and by chance I alone
was saved, while my companions were forced to walk
the fatal plank. Oh! I shall 'never .forget how their
piteous screams pierced my ears as they struggled with
the devouring waves, which swallowed them as they
cried for mercy. I supposed that my fate would even
be. worse than that of my lost ,companions, .but I was
presently informed, that if I would swear fidelity to.
them, and: become a'pirate, my life should be spared,
'Those terms were presently complied with. They were

1

'U

k


109

RO OORD.

Spaniairds and French; the captain having been born
at Marseilles. I had learned a smattering of those lan-
guagesjppfore, but in a few weeks I could converse with
fluency ii both.
" I spent severavyears with these lawless infidels,
and.in faith, I had become so habituated to crime, that
I could draw a cutlas across the throat of a prisoner
with as much complaisance as any pirate that ever un.
furled his black flag upon the dark blue waters' of the
tempestuous Mediterranean. Every enterprise must
have an end; and all evil doers, must,- sooner or later,
meet with the condign punishment that is merited by
their crimes.  Our captain was the most heartless
wretch that ever 'walked the deck of' a piratical sloop.
If he took a notion to seize a vessel with grappling
irogs, preparatory to boarding it, no person could per-
suade him to desist 'from his perilous undertaking.,
"He ordered us one day to aboard a vessel which was
in pursuit of us. We begged, entreated and implored
him to crowd on the sails and seek safety in flight. He
drew his pistols from his broad belt, and threatend to
shoot any pirate who should disobey his orders. We
submitted ; and waiting until the vessel was near enough
to claim as as a prize,' we poured one broad-side into it.
The cracking of masts, and the screams of the wounded
were heard, and before the smoke cleared away, we were
upon the deck, making havoc with all those we encoun-
tered. Our captain was contend'ng in a hand-to-hand-
fight with arfelderly man, whose strength was fast giv-'
ing way. What, was my astonishment when I recog-

3
c
i
R
1
t
i

109

i

4
wl
INK

i

RtOOKFORPJ

nized in the person of the old man, whose life was sus-
pended as if by a hair; my father, whose form I had
not seen since the night he inflicted the unmerited cas-
tigation upon me:.
'-o rushed to his side, and implored the:pirate to
spare my father's life. He did not heed me, but, re-
doubling his exertions, disarmed, my father, and laid
him prostrate and bleeding upon the deck. So quickly-
was the work accomplished, that my interference in my
fathers behalf was ineffectual. I drew a pistol from
my belt, and shot the ,cruel pirate through the heart.
lie fell and expired without a groan. I bent over the
bleeding form of my father, and discovered that he was
not dead. By the assistance of one of the pirates, who
had ever been a friend to me, my father was removed
to a.place of safety. Hurrying back to- the deck, I
.perceived that the pirates had slain nearly all of the
opposing combatants.
"Great was the consternation of the pirates. when
they beheld their beloved, yet tyrannical captain lying
stark and stiff in the cold embraces of'death. I fondly
hoped that no:positive evidence would convict me of theme
wanton deed; yet I trembled at the result. When quiet
had been restored, and the body of our captain convey-
ed to his state-room; I summonded -the crew,, and re-
vealed to them that my father wad lying in articulo mor-
tig upon the deck of the captured vessel. They ,were
moved at my immoderate grief, and yielded toany sup-
plications. My dying parent was removed to a: com-
fortable room upon our vessel, He was. much revived


ROCKFORD             '111

110       ,D

by the kindly aid we afforded him, but why delay the
fact? he died in a few hours."
"He;-was much affected when I made myself known
to him, and fondly prayed that I would forgive him for
the cruel treatment he had heaped upon me.' Late at
night our captain was lowered to the depths of the sea.
I implored my friends to permit me to behold the face
of my parent until a few short hours should have elapsed.
before consigning it to the watery grave:
"We were only a few leagues from shore, and I re-
solved to take my friend, and, in the stillness of the
night, when the pirates, as was their custom, should
betake themselves to deep drinking and be quieted into
profound sleep. by too frequent draughts from the ~fes-
tive bowl, leave forever the sickening scenes, and take
my father's remains with me. Pierre assented to every
proposition I made, and while our comrades were jubi-
lant over the victories of the day, and were dividing the
booty, we were silently making preparations for our es-
cape when first an opportunity should present itself.
The grief at the loss of my father, and the known at-
tachment of Pierre to me, were a sufficient excuse for
our absence from the ba'aquet.
"As we had surmised, it was scarcely midnight when
the revelry almost totally subsided; and soon after, the
only noise we heard .was the dashing of the waves
against the vessel. The moon had just risen in all ,its
splendor, and the stars paled before the majestic queen
of night. We quietly visited every portion of the ves-
sel.' Every one was locked in the embraces'of Mor-

pheus. The night-watch had yielded to the potent influ-
ences of the wines. We hastily exchanged our sailor's
garb for citizen's costume, and collecting supplies of
provisions, and as much gold and silver coin as we could
find, we lowered, our cargo, together~ with the body of
my deceased father, into one, of the boats, and' leaving
~the vessel to which we had been attached for so many
years, we weresoon drifting upon the waves of the At-
lantic.\-
"Guided by the moon and stars, which are unerring
guides to experienced sailors, we directed our course to
the shore. When day dawned upon us, we could per-
ceive no vessel of any kind within our horizon. We
had abstracted a compass from the ship, and by its aid,
we readily continued our course to land. About night-
fall, we arrived at the bar of Crofton, and landed at
one of the neglected wharfs. . We reported ourselves as
fishermen upon an excursion, and by bribery, procured
what assistance we needed from those who dwelt in those
miserable huts. A suitable coffin and shroud were, pro-
cured for my father, and it now devolved upon- me to
convey his corpse to his residence.
" A .steamer was about to ascend the river near
whose banks- my father's residence was located. I
applied for tickets, and all the preparations were soon
made. In two days, Pierre and myself landed our car-
go. Procuring a.siJ.able vehicle, we ,soon arrived at
the home of my infancy. An absence of twenty years
had made a great' alteration in the appearance.of the
old homestead; but time had wrought a still greater

Iw

'Sf,

7ROJKFORD.


112             ROCKFORD.

change in me..  learned from one of the servants, who
did not recognize"me, that my brothers had long since
died;:but my mother--who..was an invalid from grief
and from the disappearance of her favorite child a great
many years before-rarely ever received visitors.
"My heart was almost broken. I equld scarcely sum-
mon up sufficient courage to seek my mother's chamber
and make the revelation. But should I dread to hasten
to the only being who had ever truly loved me ? I en-
'  quired for theroom in which my mother dwelt, and,
pushing aside the servant that vainly strove to detain
me, 211 rushed into the presence of her who bore me.
When I succeeded in making myself known to her, the
joy she manifested was not of this earth..
"We buried my .father beside my brothers. My
mother expired at the grave, and her lovely form soon
reposed beneath the sod of the family cemetery.
"1did not tell you that-there were two younger chil-
dren which had been born during my absence. I left
the farm and servants to their care-promising to come
again in a few months-but I have never returned. I
was so entirely unfitted ;to -associate with respectable
men, that I- vowed to commence the business of rob-
bery when I should meet with an opportunity. I spent
a few, months in Crofton, whei chance threw me into
your ;society. We formed the band which I headed for
so many years, until I resigned my office in favor of
Royston.
"You are too familiar with our exploits in this coun-
try for me to give you a description of any. of them,

,_
. f
;;
.
}
:
.
'F
e
i
t
ice{

ROOKFORD.                 113
having been engaged in several of them yourself. But,
Hans, you are more.expert in planning than in executing,
for if there is any danger at' hand you are never the
foremost.
"It is late; let us retire to our beds, for I have much
upon my mind which I wish to relate to you on the mor-
row."
Thus ended the tale of Ben Harley. The friends
were soon in their beds, and sleep--Heavenly visitor-
drowned even the sorrows of those vile men.
8


ROGKFORD.

114             ROCKFORD.

CHAPTER XII.
" I swear to do this though a present death had been n re merciful.
Come on, poor babe ; some powerful spirit instruct the kites and ravens
to be thy nurses' Wolves and bears, they say, casting their savageness
aside, have done like offices of pity."
Winter's Tale.
It is not necessary to enter into any minute descrip-
tion of the lawless deeds that were enacted at intervals,
at and in the vicinity of Hermit's retreat. Suffice it to
say, they were generally of a most diabolical character.
From the narrative of iBen Harley, the reader may at
once infer that the wayfaring man, whom chance threw
in their, way, was not likely to leave the retreat or its
environs with whole bones and a full purse.
Hans received several valuables from the band before
he left the retreat. He paid the friends only half of
the intrinsic value of the articles, declaring that, as he
ran a great risk in offering the wares for sale, it was
nothing but right for him to make a good profit.
Leaving Hans to pursue his journey, in whatever
direction he might select for the perfection of his nefa-
rious schemes, the attention of the reader is directed to
other, scenes, which may be as interesting as the record
of any of the noted actions of' the inimitable Hans,
Kremple.
But it may not be out of place to borrow a familiar

figure from one whose name is as familiar in both hem-
ispheres as "'household words."  Not Charles Dickens'
" Hous11ioLD WonDs," kind reader, for though we con-
sider him a genius, and one of the princes of English
literature, the writer of these pages had. rather be ex-
cused from quoting from an author who came among us
to enjoy our hospitality, and then, .like a frozen adder
warmed into life by kindness, to turn and inflict upon
us a mortal wound.
George Payne Rainesford James, thou incomparable
light novelist, we invoke thy aid. Thou ewert surely
born a cavalier, or the "solitary horseman " had never
entered into all thy plots.
It was in the leafy month of June-that happy sea-
son of the year, when Southern climes have first made
glad the joyous heart: of man. When tree, and shrub;
and vine, are laden with thetender,, though .delicious
fruits of early summer.. It was the hour just before
the king of day hid; his blazing head behind the western
hills. The day had riearly closed upon the sins of mor-
tals ; yet the lengthening shadows of the whispering
pines gave but few tokens of approaching night. The
scarce audible tinkle of the distant sheep bell, and the
lowing of the home-returning herds recalled the enthu-
siast from his rustic dreams, and bade him remember
that he was. remote from the noise and clamor of the
busy city.
It was at such an hour that a "solitary horseman"
might have been seen at the distance of more than .a.
mile from the'Hermit's retreat. His noble charger-

s
e
_F
R
t
^ 1
f  t


116

-R~o CK1'0R D -

whether of the Arabian or Canadian breed, the ehroni-
cle doth. not relate---had the appearance of having been
ridden hard, though his proud spirit could not submit to
the goadings of the rowel.
"So ho ! Dapple--softly Dapple,- said the rider, as
he reigned in the horse, " dost not know thy master ?
By my:Halidon, an I had a few more leagues to travel,
thou shouldst rue thy conduct.
A powerful mastiff bounded to the stirrup of his mas-
ter, and signified his joy at the subjection of the horse.
"Down, Wimple, down! dost thou not remember the
trouble thou gavest me last night at the inn ? Gramer-
cy, sir, an thou troublest me again, thy shaggy skin
shall feel the vengeful weight of this whip."
Suiting the action to the words, the powerful rider
flecked the sagacious animal more than once, which sent
him howling toy his proper station in the rear.
The rider was not dressed in "Lincoln Green;" nor
in the garb of the knights errant, though Brian de Bois
Gilbert might have coveted the fine limbs of the un-
known    le did not ride with the majestic mien of-the
"Black Knight," nor with the ease and grace of Wilford
of -Ivanhoe ; yet, there was something very attractive
and romantic about his appearance. He was .dressed
after the fashoin of;a gay Southern gentleman, whose
chief pleasure is the chase. His dark hair correspond-
ed to the waving black plume that played with his flowing
ringlets. His features were concealed by a waxen mask,
which gave him rather a cavalier-like appearance.
Reining in his charger with all the grace and. digni-

I

ROOKFORD.

117

0

4e
A
3
3
5^
6

I

ty of 'ne who' was accustomed. to the management of
horses, the rider dismounted beside the banks of a soft
rippling brook, and taking his pistols from the holster.
examined the flints and priming, which he found to
be in perfect order. Replacing the pistols with a
self-satisfied air, the "solitary horseman " drew out a
traveling flask, which was filled with delicious spirits,
if an eye-witness could -have judged by the pleasure
with which he exhausted a large portion of its contents
He poured a few drops of the liquid into the nostrils of
the panting horse. This being done, he produced a cup
from his traveling sack, and dipping up water from the
brook, sprinkled it over the head and neck of the horse.
After remaining at the brook a few minutes longer,
the unknown again mounted; and, giving the reins to
Dapple, he was soon speeding swiftly in the direction
of the Hermit's retreat. Wimple had forgotten his late
castigation, and followed' the fleet footsteps of Dap-
ple, with much love for his master. The owl hooted
from the hollow 'oak, the hare 'fled to the covert, the
shimmering rays of twilight closed up the day, but still
the hardy and dauntless rider kept on his course. (We
thank you, Mr. James, for a few random thoughts.)
13y the permission of the reader, we will imagine our-
selves (that is,' the reader and ego) arrived at the Her-
mit's retreat a few minutes in advance of the unknown.
Ben Harley and his'gang had just returned from the
cave, whither they' had been to secure the spoils of the
last expedition.' Dandie and dame Elspeth were busily
preparing the repast. The candles were lit in the re-


118            ROOKFORD.

'

ception room of the hotel, and the' members of the
household were waiting patiently for the supper bell to
ring.
"Pierre," sait Ben, "our last expedition was a blood-
less victory, yet we returned home- laden with spoils.
If there were not so much uncertainty and danger con-
con neeted with our business, the life we lead here would
be a pleasant one, compared to the seafaring existence
of a sailor."
".True, Ben," said Pierre, "but then we are put to
so much inconvenience in concealing our' booty ; and
then ,we have to use all sorts of expedients to keep from
detection. Just remember, only a few days since, you
and -I were so hotly pursued br the officers that we
barely had time to spring into the copse, and hastily
transform ourselves into ragged mendicants--which we
did with so much adroitness that we were not suspected
by the beagles of justice, as they passed in full pursuit.
oe-ourselves"
" I suspect,, Pierre, that you long again to be in a con-
dition'ito shed blood more freely than we. do here. You
soulless heathen ! Is it not sufficient that you take the
last sous from, the trembling traveler ? Yet, we can
scarcely withhold 'you from slaying every one we cespoil
of his purse and 6ther' valuables. Ah.! 'Pierre, you will
have to render a strange account to your Maker one of
these days."
" Softly, Ben," said Pierre, as he laughingly directed a
knowing glance tothe window where Bensat, "you speak
as lightly as if you had never aimed a deadly stroke

F
i

ROCKFORD;                  119
of the cimeter at the head of that fat Dutchman who
was imploring you to save his life."
," Quiet, Pierre," retorted Ben, "I was not much to
blame ;. you know I could never make head or tail out
of that delightful language. How did I know what the
thick tongued foreigner was saying?"
"But, Ben, the signal of distress is always legible,
it mattereth not whatsigns are made to represent it."
" Oh ! you piratical imp," said Ben, "to listen at
your jargon, one would be disposed to think that you
had turned preacher and abjured the wickedness of your
ways."
." Ben," said Pierre, "let us. be quits on those scores.
When have you heard from Carl?"
" I do not know," replied Ben, "It seems-."
Here the sentence of the outlaw was cut short by the
sound of, horses' feet near at hand.
" What can the fellow mean ?" said Ben, as the shrill
notes of a bugle saluted their ears. "The man ,must
be a herald of an Eastern troop just from Palestine.
I do wonder if the wand of Merlin. has transport-
ed us to another hemisphere, and the wheels of Time
have rolled back five centuries? These are strange times,
Pierre ; go and see whit sir Knight wanteth."
Pierre went as he was directed, and perceiving that
the unknown was masked and spoke not, his knees
shook under him. He supposed that he stood in the
presence of a spectre horseman, or tlhe shades of one of
those luckless men whom his bloody hands had sent to
his last account. Running back to Ben, Pierre declar-


ed that the place was haunted or was about to be put
under a "spell."  Pierre ran. to the sofa and hid his
head betWeen its cushioned pillows, while Ben went, him-
self, to -ask.the rider in what manner he could be served.
Approaching the, horseman, Ben made a very polite
bow, and asked in genteel phrase after the health of the
unknown knight. (We must imitate G. Payne Raines-
ford once more.)  "Polite sir," replied the unknown,
"I am on a pilgrimage to the shrine of my lady of the
BROKEN HEART.    She resideth only a days' journey
from this spot, as my directions, given me by the 'Sis-
ters of Mercy' at my departure from my castle, plainly
indicate. It behooveth me to pay adorations at her
sainted shrine, 'and I have a burden at my heart which
cannot be removed except by her forgiveness. I crave
rest for myself and refreshments for my horse and dog,
(may Saint Barnabas protect them !) but. as for me, no
food except that which hath been sanctified by the pray-
ers of the .Sisters of Mercy " must enter these lips'
until I shall have knelt me at the shrine of my lady of
the BROKEN HEART."
" Alight, sir knight," said Ben, who was determined
to explore this; mystery. "Our cottage shall be your
resting place for one night. ' No pilgrim to the shrine
of my lady of the BROKEN HEART shall ever be turned
from our door. Here,'. Pedro, see to the-horse ; and
you, sir pilgrim, follow me, and I will conduct you into
our humble castle. Ho ! warden, lower-the port culls
and admit your, commandant and his guest." But,
awaking from the enchantment which the pious words

120            ROCKFORD.

r,
x
G
i
i           '
n
i
ET-
LE
tK

ROCKFORD.            121

of the unknown had thrown around, him, the infatuated
Ben implored the forgiveness of his stately companion,
who, approaching the unsanctified person 'of the fierce
robber, whisperad a few words .into his ear, which pro-
duced a perceptible change in the demeanor ,of Ben.
"Your instructions shall be obeyed to the letter; and
we must keep up the deceptive appearance," said Ben,
who conducted him into the reception room.
Dame Elspeth commenced counting her beads, as she
dropped a plate of savory victuals in the yard. She
was certain' her time had come. She imagined that the
arch-fiend had come to claim and bear her off as a prize.
"May the saints beshrew me," said Dandie, .,as he
hastened to the relief of his spouse, "the wife is daft,
yet blessings -upon her, she hath a braver heart than
mine. What cowards doth conscience make of us all !"
"Pull off your 'visor, sir knight," said Ben. as he led
the unknown to a seat, "and taste some of our refresh-
ments."
" It. is not permitted me by my vow," replied the un-
known, "to discover my features to mortal until I have
paid my vows at the shrine of my lady of the BROKEN
HEART."
'Tis he, 'tis he," said Pierre, "'tis my victim," as
he rushed from the room, followed by his companions,
leaving the unknown and Ben alone. The former was
shown to his room, while the latter i'n vain -endeavored
to collect his friends around the festive' board. It is
needless to add, that the room of the unknown was not
entered that night for the purpose 'of robbery, nor were


122             ROCKFORD.

Dapple and Wimple,.disturbed. By early dawn, Ben
bought 'out the horse,'and the unknown vaulted into
the saddle. "You ma* rely upon me," said Ben, "I
will be there' with -assistance." They parted, and the
horseman was. soon out of sight.
When' Ben summoned. Pierre and his comrades, he
could scarcely make them leave their rooms. In 'order
that he might keep up the appearance of mystery, he
told them that no stranger had been there, but supposed
they must have been disturbed by ugly dreams.
By the leave of the reader, the scene changes from
Hermit's retreat to the house of Mr. Rockford. On
the evening of the day subsequent to the departure of
the "unknown knight " from the Hermit's retreat, Mr.
Rockford was sitting in his piazza, reading to his wife,
while Sebastian, whom we have not seen in several
months, was playing upon the front yard with his pets.
"Josephine," said the husband, "Sebastian has grown
so niucli lately that Captain Walsingham' will scarcely
recognize him when he comes to see us to-morrow.. The
boy looks so handsome in. the new suit you have made
him, suppose we let the nurse take him down to the
beach and play a while in the shade.' He loves to see
the waves lash upon the shore."
The request of the father was complied with, and
Sebastian kissed his parents and departed with the
nurse. 'Mr.'.Rockford continued his reading until.it was
time for him to go to his office. On his way thither he.
maetHans Kremple, going towards the sea-side, in com-

t
if.
.
Y
i'
i
t:i
+ r 4
A}v
r
:

ROCKFORD-                  123
pany with a stranger who appeared to be lame, having
the appearance of a foreigner. A huge pair of green
spectacles gave the stranger a comical expression.
"Hans has more strange acquaintances than any man
in Crofton," said Mr. Rockford to himself, as. he hur-
ried past them.' Before he arrived at the office, Mr.
Rockford encountered Mr. Snibbens, who had just dis-
missed his school. The pedagogue bored the good man
to the quick in trying to illustrate something beyond
his own comprehension.
Mr. Rockford was busily engaged in the investigation
of a "case," and Was hunting up all the "points,"
when one of his servants, hastily entering his office,
implored him to return home immediately, as something
dreadful had 'happened. ~ Mr. Rockford was a man not
easily excited, but was generally disposed to encounter
and overcome obstacles with composure. Sippgsing that
his presence at his own house was absolutely necessary,
he hastened home, much troubled in mind.
When he entered his house, he found everything in
utter confusion. The servants were running in every
direction. Mrs. Rockford ran about the house almost
frantic. Mr.IRockford was horror-stricken when he learn-
ed that Sebastian had been taken from the nurse by a
party of men who had landed in haste from habo  and,
before she could give the alarm, they had pushed from
shore and sailed away.


CHAPTER XIII.
THE reader must now imagine that' five years have
passed away since the strange abduction of Sebastian
Rockford. ;We must now change the scene of our story
from Grofton, and introduce new characters' into our
romance, and follow up, if possible, the fortunes of our
little hero. ~
The greatest. men who have ever figured upon the
stage of life, and-whose actions have been noted, either
descended from the Plebian race; or their road to fame
was traversed with dangers and difficulties. It is a sin-
gular-'fact, and one worthy of note, that men may be
bornto  wealth, but individuals must work their way to
distinction. Alfred the Great, who was one of the most
valiant kings that ever sat upon the throne of the Brit-
ish nation,-was an outcast and a beggar in his own couw-
try, until the Fates decreed that a wise man should be
called back to the helm of State.}
Wise men, on the contrary, have declared that our
fortunes are' not in, our stars, but in ourselves. If such
be the fact, then the 'science of Astrology is at an end.
Two thousand years have passed since the wise Chal-
deari looked up at the Heavenly bodies and read the
future history of nations by the fitful changes of the
it  kling stars. Antiquity itself has taken its rise-

Y.24.                       iiU Va:r viiu

r
4
1!
W
f
i
i
i
PL:

ROOKFORD.            .125

since prophecies have ceased to be promulgated by per-
ipatetic philosophers, or by those wise and good men
whose solitary yet holy 'tread have worn away the flag-
stones of deep dungeons.
Who that is an enthusiast'and an admirer of the Hea-
venly bodies, has not watched the motions of the plan-
ets and wished'that a sign might be given unto him ?
You are a coward, and it can be very plainly demonstrated
even to your own satisfaction. You start at an appari-
tion in a dream, and the cold sweat bedews your brow,
and you thrust your timid head under the bed clothes
on awaking, for fear that you, in reality, may behold
the realization of your "poetic nightmare." Dare you
at such times walk into -a cemetery and commune alone
with the spirits of departed friends ? You shrink from
the task; you fear that you might call up spirits from
the vasty deep which would not down at your bidding.
They are not morallybrave who start pt the apparitions
of night. Those that sleep the, sleep of death are our
best friends, or we should be infested with numberless
foes. The very dust you tread upon was once a com-
ponent part of a human being, and dare you fear the
soil you may call your own ?
Oh! reader, if the dead are permitted to walk forth
at night, they will be seen only in your. feverish imagi-
nation, or in your dreams.
Do you love fiction? listen at the conversation of the
giddy crowds that, throng your thoroughfares. If they
have lately come into possession of a fact, the rules of
addition and subtraction will soon make truth appear
stranger than fiction.


V

126

ROCKORD.

Truth dwellsat the bottom of a well. Would you
imhbe a draught? take a glass of pure water, and cool
your feverish imagination. Do not expect to find a gold
mine in every furrow you open, nor expect a marvelous
revelation in every page of legitimate lore you peruse.
The authors' of the Arabian Nights, .Don.Quixotte and
Gil Blas, exhausted the fund of thrilling adventure, and
we can never supplant or rival them.
When Moses was placed in the ark, which preserved
his life, did it occur to his mother that she was rescuing
from destruction the future, patriarch and leader of the
children of God?' Oh! skeptical reader, believe not
that all things happen by chance.
If we deal in a few reflections now and then, have
not Fielding, Scott and Bulwer done the same ?  We
ought at. least to be allowed as much license as some of
our funny female writers, (God bless and ,put them all
to some occupation that is" more remunerative than
writing for one dollar and fifty-cents a column!) who
spin out sixteen pages a. day in descanting upon the
travels of a certain toady in Lapland. One of those
blessed ladies, who has swept all Southern male authors
from the gay pages of Romance ,with one shake of her
curls, once wrapped herself up in a buffalo robe ,with-
we shallnot call its name-at any rate, this was only
in imagination. She )ad read the book of travels, and
having nothingielse to write about, she got into the
sleigh with it, (remember, reader, this was only in fancy)
andfr-aveled all over Lapland,.Russia and Norway with
Iaron Toady, allin sixteen pages of manuscript ! Bless

ROCKFORD.

127

the dear creature ! she is perfectly sincere,when she de-
clares that men have but little genius. -We had rather
be wanting in genius than- to strive to imitate every
toadyish tale writer and poetaster who have forgotten
how to .call things by their proper names.
We have no distaste to the.writings of the ladies, but
we would have beautiful governments if their wise (?)
mandates were followed up. There are only two lady
authors whose works can stand the test of criticism-
we mean as distinguished writers-and those are Jane
Porter and Madame De Stael. Their mission seemed
to be to wreath garlands of immortality of ivy green to
crown their noble heads.
.We have a few man-milliners in the United States,
who surely belong to the class of MISTAKENDOM.-
Letthem commence writing upon whatever subject they
please, they will make rit convenient to quarrel with the
fashionable ladies of "Madison Square" about the
flounces of their dresses, the feathers upon the edges of
their fans; and some of them have wisely invented
rouges and pomades, and a thousand little things for the
ladies that they (the ladies) never thought of themselves.
Those man-milliners are so delicately modest that, in-
stead of;calling a silver thimble by its proper name, they
will denominate it a semiperforated argental truncated
cone. Others, though. bachelors, would not dare to un-
dress'in a room in which there is a pin-cushion, because
the needles have eyes. Those fashionable critics have
given rise to the Flora McFlimseys who, though ar-
rayed in purple,".hav't a thing in the wide world to
wear.


i2.              OOK1'ORD.

Dear, gentle-reader, if we were able we would not
distort your imagination _.y relating hair breadth es-
capes and impossible improbabilities. We have seen a
few things which we durst not relate,. for fear of being
considered a fabricator. We once knew a man who was
so fond of the marvelous, that Truth, to him, dwelt so
deep in the well, that his bucket never reached there-
treat of the nymph.
We commenced this chapter by notifying the indul-
gent reader that five years have passed since the abduq-
tionof our little hero.
Yonder is a beautiful, though an unostentatious man-
sion. Theodore,.lManing is the possessor of a thousand
acres of arable and. His many servants till his pro-
ductive fields, and the .products of their labor yield him,
an ample support.
Two little b Qywere pyini    the shady yard in
front of the hoe. Oneof them was only four years
of age, and the other was abou6 "even. If the fQOiner
had"nothing remarkable about him, the latter could not
have been passed carelessly by. His soft blue eyes and
auburn hair were so remarkable that hisehildish beauty
made- you glad. The boys were arrangiig theirtoys,
whenMr. Manning came out to jon in the sport.
"5 Come; her$, Falkher," gid Mr. Manning, speak-
ing to theelder, "hereare some new marbles for you
-divide them with Corolan."
";thank y , my fathers" said the boy, "let me kiss
yp ".brthem."
Bless the boy !" murmured the farmer, "he is the
very light ofmy home."

"See, O&amp;olan "said Falkner, "seethe Pretty fhtI-e e.
bles papa has br uht is'-hei-e are yotes'
"dive iie allof'em.ihere," said Corolao"yoavays
take'"the biggest and the prettiest." AMid the child
-after making his    n selection.s, and ddiiifi e
largest share-.aPked his father* What elsb he had fo-
him.
" Don't you thank papa for -them  brother ?" asd
F a lk nV                              .
 don't know," aid the boy, "he biiigs us things
bMcause hie Wants to.
'You are rather i'a n grateful boy,orin," said his
father, ' I have brought, Falkner a~hr book,."' an~i
drew out,arpictorial rede r  fhich he gavhim. Te
boykissed him again, and read several pasesetgof his
father.
t  Its time you wee .: tp sohooiFaIner-our
 say  u mut rot bhlate. Th boy haMsS\Ld
to hool whilewnning        ayedith    Glan.
Hws not able tohiere t Oorolanf, anidcalling to 1is
nofhrethe'boy wasdelivered to hei. l' rolani dearl
lovedhis note=- ho   etned his l          ig
int   t. She was 'in' to Fkane     to   ht 'ih af
feeionswere doublyiceritered upon the yohihger.
f there was ay difference exhibited by th9niother in
the management of the children, it hadno'efternal ap
pearance. She ha4 too pure a heart to be so farinfin-.
enced by caprice as to mistreat one of the children jfret,
it must be confessed that Norolan was her favorite. f
the mother centered her affections upon the one, the
9

4

I


ROOYGUD.

181

f   thr had -;segret love fir the:other that showed itself
t0o;inly, attmes, tQ be entirely   pealed.
aid he, father-" are you fully preserv-
iJgthoserelics that-wre und; with, the child, and the
leter which was concealed i the wr-pper?  We may be
eo pelted tothave recourse to them r me of these days."
"They are kept in a trunk to themselves,"- said the
wife,"and the ky is never allowed to pass into the
handy of a third person.
"1- :a 'ften _forced to the point of belief that the
hild was taken from a highlygespegtable family by vio
Jee  .t seems , as if  e weredfoing a Wrong deed' to
kapp th0 seet y     the letterwas couched in such a:
language 4t  a pubheaton ",a,.4 paper ,would
K   e ife f ]alkner, We' must be contented'
Ux abide our tunxe."
U 6
rr r    t perfee    contented," replied the wife,  to
res thelo    mater~ im4d r hands.   -
hea faith pa r  ts could ioC onsent to make 'the
r   lavM ioni to afliving so;U and ]:alkner was supposed
y  to    heiro Wn son. I is tue, he hd but
Sesm&amp;et       Oorolap, but th  affection the pa-
r 1ibite4 for him was the best evidence  his
eb                               n e o 'r p} 4 V being  the l 'chld  ,  \-  '  tI vR-  -SY;):7,.
,' I e'  d"
4,

1)

CHAPTER X            IV
FALKNER MANNING was a very promis1D boy at seven
years of age; and when he had completed his ninth year,
he had 1tade so rapid a progress ni his primary studies,
it was evident that he could easily enter upon a'hig her
course. He received the oyful tidings one morig fron
his father-who placed a tatin Gr  xar i hi halia
-that he night- commence the study of that 'usefnlan
guage. He had but little difficulty in acquiring.a cor
rect pronunciation from the wholeso ne iustructions 'of
his competent teacher, whose laniwas not tiferentffrom
the masters of the old school. Heisisted that one book
thoroughly learned, was of hcalculaJ1y greater adva
tage to a boy than 'a confused knowledge of a dozen
Falknerwas ontnued upon the Gramnnar until e
waseo analyze every portion of it ready. The
instructor"had. satisfied himself that there was no rail-
road tolearning:,The  mind, is so constituted,reasoned
he, that it cannot be forced. r By constant applietion,
and frequent repetitikn, a thorough knowledgeKotf them t  e
primary rules of the niost intricate language ina be
learned by a boy of'. ordinary abilities; but it takes th 4
study of long years to attain to any degree of perfec=.

S..~
it

'1106ki'O iD.

.2
I

1


tion in a language so difficult as that of the ancient
Romans. Falkner-read the primers land Julius Caesar's
Commentaries upon the Gallic War, in two "yeabs from
the time of his entry uponthestudy of the language.
At, the examination he received a silver medal from the
board of examiners,~ for proficieiiey in Latin comnposi-
tion. Mr. Manningpressed mhim to his bosom when
they arrived athodb  hile Mrs.: Msanningparticipated
in the erzjoyment.. As ia reward for hiss industry, a fine
it    f green cloth, trimnmed with braid, adort ed tle
b ptifulorm of the fair-haired boy.   Corolan was
de the recipient of one fromthe same piece; though
hi dle habt    d sent himto the foot of the class
lie dgolared that. he would not learn, and he wished
eyery dgyas Saturday, in order that he might hunt,
and fih, and ride his pony.
ng      orie's said Falkner, " father is o anxious
for~you to be: good scholar, do put up those useless
toys and thahIIisy 'hip' and comne to th table and let
Io tpch you how to.find your map questions.'
"Idonot care if he :does,'Master Falkner-as. the
ts cher calls you  Father need not send m.e to the hate-
fulOld sehdol u less he wants to; beside  I de ise tje
ld rivers and towns with ,hard names. If you bng
that dirty oldmap to me again to-niglt, I'll dash it in
the.fire,"  Here Falkner left him tohis amusements.
Corolau was as petulant'and'quarrelsome as Falkner
w   kin  and submissive. The former was governed by
edo and presents-th elatterby duty. He could
never be indue d to disregard the injunctions of his'pa-

ROOKFrOEDJ

rents; or 'the rules of .the school of which he was the
brightest ornament.
yacatio&amp; had come, with all 'its goldah. pr6jpets 'of
fishing, hunting, gathering fruit, and excursions upon
horse-back. " Corolan, insteadof imitating the laudable;
example of Falkner, in' the prepa&amp;ation of his lessons
for the examination, which/ had lately pa sed offso mnach
to the credit of the latter, had neglected- his 'booksoi
-the purpose of arranging his fishing tackle. and' other
implements of sport.
"iCome, my sons," said the father a few days 'aftei
vacation had commenced, put on your hunting suits and
let us go to the low grounds and shot birds. You are
not old enough yet, Corie, to learn the art of shooting.
When you shall have grown large ;Falkaer will give
you the necessary instructions4"
"4 Papa," said Corolan, pouting and'about to getinto
one of his ugly fits; ." I had rather not go, if Falkner
is allowed to take a gun. He learned to shobt during
last vacation; yet, I have never fired a gun unless you.
were holding it."
"Come, darling," said his' mother, who had been lis-
te ing to the conversation, "go 'on with 'father Vand
bther Faikner, and when you return I wil giVe you
some nice cakes:"'
-The boy was humbled into submission by the eptrea
ties of his mother. Ie 'kissed her,' and drying his
tears, made instant preparations for the ecursi.-
Falkner endeavored to assist him in dressing, but he t
aside the hand of' the' good boy, and pae 1' attend to

I


34        -     RO KOt
his9 owi  ffas7-aying if he&amp;was. no  1igseough to
shoot, he had sense enough to array ige his own dress.
ie .ould gladlyimitate the actipns of Flkner, but if
the latter,.ever made aMiy suggestions, he stubborn
Vorie*ould change his plays.
The dogs ere unkennelled and bronght out.' The
gacious animals were  o glad of an opportunity, of
JJ rising them limbsthat they bounded over the head
orie,,who took them, and stared'in full speed to the
eldihe father directed Falkner to follow, and de-
ti  the a at the spring branch until he arrived ; or the
birds would he flushed before hpe was prepared to shoot
them. 'The boy did as he Was dire ted' When he c pie
upto where Falkner was holding on to 'the dogs, he ob-
served that Orie was vexed with his brother. Mr.
Manning took out his whip and gave the pointers a short
excroiseg gn aviation., As the"failing strokes lit upon
their shaggy sides, they:were brought to their senses.
Coriewas threatened wth 'hi displeasureif he did not
. actlike a pretty little bo.
They entered a grove, shaded by tall oak and hickory
trees,high beautify the Southern forests. The birds
played among the branches, and called one another with
plaintive notes.the mock ng-bird echoed all their nrel-
odies in sweeter strains than the original. 'Nature, has
given that songsterJowers of imitation unequalled, by
man linself; yet the natural iotof the melodious bird
pt a hirsh discordant sound  Yentriloquists, jest
s'au4 mitators are gifted in this respectdbyb nature,
theabgene of brains, if  an will attempt

-         ROOPORD. 6
to sound his' own trump, he must soundu&amp;the trumpef
others.     ,
"Bear i.n mind, Falkuer, that we are to admite the
songs of the mioeking.bird, but we have a 'purpose, or
an aig in life to strive'after. We must cut ourselves
loose from  leading-strings and fashion out our oWn
course. If that stream yonder remained still, and re-
solved itself into a turbid lake,-the waterswould bain
healthy, and the country would be filled with-,'iase.
But, look how swiftly the current glides on. T  streamn;
is constantly receiving new springlets. Yonder="is a
spa all branch winding around the bend, to augment its
Waters.  See that -ascade, where we delight to bathe,
near the place where I taught you .to, swim. That
small river widens and deepens in'its course, as it winds
#majestically through the foeste, and thousands are glad-
dened by its refreshing influence. Onet"hundred7'miles
below here it empties into the ocean. That world of
waters is formed bythe numberless streamlike this.
-  Were it not for them, do you suppose the ocean would
exist'?. That stream, my boy, is the typeof huin
life. Man, if he allows himself to become a sluggard,
is like the sluggish pool, but the active, smart, inds
trious worker, if he accumulates property, whetheNr ar
himself or not, is like the beautiful "rive thtt we are
just approaching."
"jTrue, father," replied the thoughtful'boy, ' that' is
why I admire ti;works of Casar. lie had but little
time to  are from his duties as a 'general"h
" You    ember, Falkner'that when the'my of06


ROOKLIOR D.i3

1 OOK;FORD.
argwgnot uppy the ngarch, or in actual engagements
on the field of battle, it was in winter quarters. It
. the camp that he com posed his Commentaries."
" How could he find so much .nte even there to write,
f te ? Iiam: sure he had much to do in constricting
fortifietionsfordefence."
"cFalknfr," replied the father, much interested in the
oxvegrsatiQn,D".Cysa r ida4many lieutenants, or subal-
tes whon mhe commanded to have particular care in
eing     the drillig of the men. He may not have
appeared :pon parade more than once a month."
"I reigember," said Falkner, "something about fore
t4ing the camps,and leading t     soldiers from te e
wp1er quarters. 'Csar castella daalliade muniverat et
. elgionesp hiberni8 eduxerat.'"
aere the conversation was broken off by Corolan,
lp;avigespied a covey, o, partridges under the
pse hastened to his rather and reported the fact.
lner -yas, requested to stand preparedto shoot as
s on as his father gave the word. The well trained dogs
quickly upon the scet, and at the signal from Mr.
the birds wereushed. Whe     they.'rose,,
try were shot down by Mr. Manning, who commanded
.1n to dishar:g his piece. * the boy shot eith r
te. soon 'or toolate, as he missed entirely."
"I think I could beat that',shooting myself, master
14eri  " said Corie-who seenetoyegldat the ill
ae  :f his  other.
"I hope you can, Cone,"aid the go6 rer. "I
a      atll ayerse to your being enabled5t  zccll in
soRMe Mings."

. In a few minutes Falkner had ran opportunity of test-
ing his marksmanship again when he was more success-
ful-having brought down two birds. When the father
and sons had bagged as many birds as they cared to
carry home, they sought the cool shade on the banks of
the stream.
" Now, Corie," said the father, "you are fond of
sporting with the hook and line;= suppose you rige up
some of those reed staffs that lie yonder, and lt us have
some sport to divert you."
"I have the hooks and lines," replied the boy, "but
w ere shall we get worms from?"
}'" They are easily supplied, my boy; bend down one
of thQse green ,boughs over your head, and supply
yourself-with Catawba worms'
"Those green -monsters,!, they look too frightful, sir,
I had rather not touch them," said the 'boy.
"They are perfectly harmless," said the mild, but
intrepid Falkner, as, he pulled them from their leafy
homes and handed them to his father.
"There are but few things," said the good man to
his interesting sons, "which the' Almighty has fformed
for our use that are not harmless. The venomous rep-
tiles that attack us anawares are not only poisonous,
but deadly to the taste. God has pointed put to us. as
if by instine what fruits, herbs and animals we should
use for       v 'e long to' pluck the luscious plum,
grape, a       peach, but we shrink fromr the touch
of  erab-apple or persimmon. Learn to
impr         tastes while you are yet young,' and you
may           oiseurs in the culinary art."
?t t  k  1*                I

18'7

I
f


138                ROCKORD
" Have.' all animalss hearts ?" said ,Corolan to his
father.
" Certainly, my son; but why do you ask the quest
tiQ ?"
"Because, I heard you and Falkner repeating the
lesson,, 'Omne animal quod sanguinem kabet, habet etian
cor.' I heard you tell brother that the translation was,
'Jvery animal which has blood, has also' U heart.'"
"Ithink you are improving, master Cordlan, in our
vacatio "," said the delighted Ealkner, "you are surely
sharpening up your wits."
"Not at all,-,sir, but.as I am compelled to listen at
the two hours' drilling father giye you: every night,
'would be very dull if I were not enabled ito pick up
some phasess' When I drop to sleep and commence
dreamingbout the fishbiting or the pony galloping, I
am certaintorbe waked up by yours and father's never-
endingiamsquarms and qidquids.
To   e boy is no doltat last," murmured his father, "if
he is never to be skilled in books, 'he may surely turn
to be a good politician or 'a broker.'
After'spending an hour in the pleasant sport of fish-
ing, they'wound u their lines, much pleased with have
ing drawn out;,several fine fish.
When they reached home, laden with 'fish birds and
fruits,.the mother had an elegant hinch c read for
themy in which the cakes and sweet        r Corie
were not forgotten.
t r                    1  T~g I ti.

I

I

ROC ORD.Ql~

I39

C CHAPTER XV.
THE happiest days .of' our lives are those of, our child-
hood; yet, how heedlessly the rising generation reject
the sage advice  of their elders, who warn them not, to
spend their time in idleness, but advise them to use every
moment as a precious gift from the great ruler of .the
universe. While one boy voluntarily seeks those silent
companions which speak as with a Voice from the'tomb,
one thousand will lay those wisennonitors upon the dusty
shelves..y.x
. Do you wish to be wise and have your names engraved
upon the temple of Fame ? then the lark inust not find
you slunmbering upon your downy beds. You muat be
watchful, and not lose one golden moment. Do not un
dertake a greater task than you can perform. 'Measure
Your abilities by the proper standard, and if your pow-
ers of mind are great, place your mark high; you may
never arrive at eminence by striving for. honors -of a
medium grade. Do you know where to find the key that
can unlock more treasures than lie hidden in the mines
of California? it~lies concealed in your resolution-it
is PERSC.. Nearly all great men have sprung
from o          hilies. 'Can you doubt this,?,, look to
the pag      history. ' Where the crown or the reins of
over      have passed into the hands of an heir ap-


140                t(cFORD.~
parent, and. where new republics and empires have arisen
upon the ruins of tottering nations, the descendants of
the persevering plebian race have always pressed to the
front ranks.
Coriolanus, who sprang ffrom the ranks, of the Plebi
ansof' Rome, assumed the command of her armies with
as much pride as any of the representatives of the ex-
alted race. of 'the Scipios. When fallen into disgrace
at home; he le4 the armies df the enemies of his country
to the gates of the city with the insatiate revenge-of a4
insulted p otentate. The nobles of Rome bowed in hum-
ble submission tot him; but he withdrew the besieging
thousandsyfrdn the walls of his native city, alone at the
entreaties of his-revered mother.
'the man possessed of true merit, and lofty intellect,
eoupe d withgoodness of heart, and integrity of pur-
pose, be he po ooor endowed with the weath of a prince,
shouldralone be the ru4er of a free people. If a tyrant
oppresses you, slay him-if kings strive to. rule over
youndepose them. Never be contented to bow the head'
of a freeman inethe presence of a crowned prince. The
days of pringes were ended when Christ appeared upon
earth. You are as good as a king.. To-day he may
flourish, but todnorrow his -subjects may drag him to the
scaffold. ,'-1.,,
But to proceed!with oir story. If we digress now
anthen, we only imitatethe example of    who are
our-upieriors in the art, of compositio, readers
became tired of the' dull ionotony4 of a  arative
so dooe--.hence the digression.E

ROOKFORD:            141

,Two boys who have been reared up together ag broth-
ers, having received the',same kind , attentions from in-
dulgent parents, were never i ore unlike .than Falkner
and Cdrolan. If there was nothing, vicious and sordid
about the latter, he possessed, but few or none ,of the
ennobling traits of the former. , Falkuer was an excep,
tion to the majority of boys' of his age. If,,;he read a
book, it was with caretthat he tried to profit by its wise
instructions., His father had so lectured:him upon' the
first principles of Jiterature, that he was readily enabled
to judge of the merits and demerits of any composition..
Nature seemed to have formed hin for, a scholar, and
his father intended to give him, all the benefits of a lib-
eral education.  Corolan should enjoy the same oppor-
tunities, too, though he might not profit thereby.
Some of our readers will remember that a promise
was made in the commencement of this book, that a va-
riety of scenes should be introduced to please all classes
of those who delight' in reading romances. I' we in-
troduce the wise teacher of those interesting boys, and
give a few of his "wise saws and 'modern instances,"
will the reader grow tired ? We  hope not.
'"Yonder comes old Hieflin now," saidConie to Talk-
ner, as, the Manning family lingered at the breakfast,
table one fine, morning during vacation, 'I do wonder
what the old, crow wants now ?  Come,;master Falkner,
your and father rub up your Latin ; as for me, ' see
enough o te  old ,owl during school time. Good morn-
ing to yof  1;I'lljust iide to he post office and  et
father'    ers."

Y I
3


ROO(1ORI              143,

What a attr -geboy'youae, Corie, said the father,
who was both-amused and vexed at the remarks of his
son, "  dominie Heflhinis an odd old man, he is a fine
teacher,iand deserves your respect."
' That is all true; father, butJ Jhall love him better,
whenIhav ceased to be one of his pupl. -Falkner,
don'tyddu drawl down his throat or let him carry you
of in one of those large 'pockets.  If I were father 1
wotId sid yeu t6 live with the old fellow. If you have
anyeoaeion'to fend'Il your silver and copper -pieces
to his dirty, tow-headed children, like you have done be-
fore, rem eimber that Corie Manning has an equal share
in the contejits of ourtrunk."
"lnyed hot be alarmed,-brother I have not the
least desP'e to kheel to  ar'bgoodoteacher, or to load him
WitE'Uless'presents. You ought toremembehow you
implre imto spa&amp;e you when your laziness puts you
at theft of the clas:" s
The old dominie knocked at the front door; ,and while
4lkner'hastenedt give himadmission, Coriemade his
escape into his mother's room;thenee to the stables.
His father smiled as ,e se imi riding off at a brisk.
sped in the direction of the pst office.
.PminiieHeflih was not so eradite as dominie Sam
sonkit he chose to display iore of his learning than,
that at  iggenius; who will be reme nbered as log asc
Walter Scott works ae read; butihe was h;e fond of
talk   than Harry Bcitram s tutor was     e cold
ner     ai toremai Bilent.  Helretailed i  sdom at
every. step lie took. It mattered not who wsNthe lis-

tener, dominie Heflin-when once his text'wasL taken-
never left off speaking until the subje  was quite ex-
hausted. He was notr'like the young man, whesought
an introduction to Madame de Stael. The extraordi-
nary lady rebuked him; and left him; because he could
not advance one idea,"good or 'bad.If thi;,domina had
lived in her circle, perhaps she might have been musd
with his strange pedantry.
He -wore a long, black camlet oversack, which reached:
ed nearly to his feet. A pair of tight ttig pants wa
intercepted in their downward progress by. stockiugs.
The old man wore his hairin a cue, 'and 'his head was
coyere- with a quaker4ike hat of the olden timne. The
Vicar of Wakefeld and the dominiee would have made a
pair.. He was what might justly be termed a lbeomo-
tive encyclopedia, or a circulating library.
"Diem honam tibi opto, master Falkner, sol splendide
fulget, hodie," said the 'dominie, as he  walked, into the
parlor.
"Gaudeo te valere," said the boy, who had learned
some phrases from the.master.
" Your humble servant, friend Maning,' said the
delighted dqminie, as hetook his seat to commence ta
four hour's chat, " time hangs soheavilyupon my handa
at home during vacation, thatI become heartily tired
of conversing ;with the  udeswife and bairs,? inasmuch
as'theirideas an-mine xntn in pretty, much"the. same
change.
"You ar heartiyf welcome, friend Heflin," said the
good M tr.   ning "I aa quiteglad to see youatall

14

x    i J RD
i4


'144

U0K~ORi

times ; Itk'ges  a i&amp;sM'' 6pportunity."frubbing upamy
ILatin and G.el ttalk  itWg yam never better
employed anenengaged in advancing the interest
of eduwation- I an idt fond of a display ;of too much
edantrygbutyan 'intellectual debate up'on the ancient
lassieii evr ot of plaeewhen we. can benefit our
obidrei;by th0 conversation. Core is not fond of his
books itlFalkner is never better ,atisfid than. when
p:oising'th work ,of classic author. #,o you think
you. eanprepse Falkier for :the Freshman class of
MY&amp;+  vniersityin two year ?"
B.1yael meanse"repliedtheydejnminie; "he is quite
ready to ponminen e  eading Vigil, aid by your consent
he'shall immdi tl take:p the study&amp;f Greek. Boys
earin eerprepared to commenes-the latter language un-
tiltheyhave mastered the rudiments of the 1Latin. It
is alogettromi skes       forceofr nalad, through the
course1 Thoy ray be enabledby constant application, to
memorize allthe rules-of those languages in a short.space
of6time, but whetherthey can retain what they so hastily
learp, 'is, another thing.. As I have ,tol you before
'Squire, thenimid cannot- be forced. It meust'imbibe
Aght. aesorn ,jb  degrees. One;chapte r  oe book
-welldgested;   'th anore fto a boy thanthe incom-,
plete understandingof the works.of a dozen authors.
L0 nat  proveit we caronly relate what we have
erned 4thoroughlya     he mket intelligible to our hear.
r    If the mind is burdened With a thou4ad different
t igs-'the  a sohing facultieswill 'ecome obtuse "
t   oge oorgectdominie,"' saidMi. Mating, 'afew

*

IROCKFORD.

145

lessons well learned each day, will soon make up the
fund of a boy's education."
" True, my friend," said the dominie, "that is exactly
wh t I endeavor to teach my lads, non quarn multum,
sec quan 'bene. There is another wise saying, which is
worth its weight in gold, labor omnia vincit. If I can
not teach a boy to observe all these wise sayings, and
conform entirely to 'my precepts, I almost despair of'
his ever arriving at proficiency. I exhaust every pos-
sible plan before I confess -that I can not teach a boy
who has even common capacity. Some of the best and
most accurate scholars we read-of, either in ancient or
modern times, were very dull boys. But patience and
perseverence on the part of their instructors, overcame
every obstruction. You must not. be too uneasy about
the backwardness of Corolan. He has an excellent
mind, but his ideas have not yet been reached. He is
averse to study. If he ever learns much, it must be
either voluntarily or from observation."
The dominie made use of many Latin, Greek and
French quotations during the conversation, which we
omit from the fact that many of our readers are not
. linguists. Falkner was an atttentive listener and often
joined in the conversation: Mr. Manning knew that
the dominie was versed in English as well as Latin poe-
try. In order to draw him out on some other subject,
he changed the conversation.
"What are your ideas of happiness, dominie Heflin ?"
said the host.
10


ROCKFORD.            147

"It exists as much in our imagination as in anything
else,-I think," replied the teacher.
" Suppose we should imagine ourselves miserable ?"
"Then, my friend, there is an end to the enigma;
for you may ,safely say'that happiness is a riddle too."
(Aquam da mihi, master Falkner.)
While the youth ordered a glass of water, the father
brought out the wine.   At. the sight of the cut glass
decanters and silver goblets, the eyes of the dominie
sparkled, and he almost forgot his enunciation of hap-
piness.
"Rogo te aquam, sed mihivinum das," and the dominie
drank the health of his friend in more than one glass.
The domine was upon the point of feeling a portion of
what some men call happiness, and he thus commenced:
"You ask my opinion in regard to happiness.    I will
just quote a few lines from the bard of Twickenham:
'Oh, Happiness! our being's-end and aim,
Good, pleasure, ease, content'- whate'er thy name:
That something still which prompts the eternal sigh,
For which we bear to ,five, or dare to die:
Which still so near us, yet beyond us lies,
'O'erlook:ed, seen double, by the fool and wise
Plant of celestial seed! if dropped below,
Say in what mortal soil thou deign'st to grow?
Here we have what happiness is, and what it may
not be. We cannot deny that all men desire to exist
in a state of bliss, yet their mode of living may differ
as widely as the habits of the animals of the Torrid and
North Frigid Zones.    The pleasure of this man may
consist in drinking and riotous living, while the enjoy-

1 6             ROCKFORD

f,
r-

ment of another may be exactly the reverse.  One man
may love ease-another is not contented unless he is in
continual motion. We may hale happiness within our
grasp, yet sigh for enjoyments which may lead to mis-
ery. Thus, you see, happiness is a myth, or a will-o-
the-wisp.  It may be ever in sight, yet, like the mirage
of the desert, vanish into air as we approach it."
"But,.doninie," said the host, "are you not sure
that Pope was right in his deductions, or do you not
think he was melancholy at times,, and longed for things
he did not need ?"
"It is hard to tell," said the patriarch of Academus,
"we must take a man's writings at what they are worth.
He has but few equals as an essayist, and no superiors
as an original thinker and correct versifier."
"Alexander Pope," rejoined. Mr. Manning, "had
correct views upon any subject. If he had lived in
our day, when learning has received so many auxiliaries,
he would have left us a greater legacy than he has.
But let.us look and see what he says further upon our.
subject in point:
- Order is Heaven's first law; and this confessed,-
Some are, and must be, greater than the rest,
More rich, more wise ; but who infers from hence
That such are happier, shocks all common sense.
"Here, my good Heflin, we are assured that happi-
ness is not alone confined to the wealthy classes. It is
very natural for us to hear some men long for wealth,
while others, who are rich in heaps of gold, long for
the repose that is bought only by a competency.  For


148 .      .   ROCKFORD.

the very reason that we are never satisfied, we may
rightly infer that happiness is only a relative term.-
When a'limit shall have been placed to our desires,
theAi we may know how-to appreciate happiness. I fear,
sometimes, it is like 4 humming-bird. It is almost a
miracle to catch one, and when you confine the little
Peri, it dies. To sum up the, whole subject and place
it in a nut-shell, Happiness is LIBERTY."
The dominie was about to enter at large upon several
*points, but the dinner-bell was heard, and the discussion
ended. ..
The meal was scarcely concluded, when one of the,
servants entered the room hastily and told the master
that the black pony had come back without Corolan.
There was much confusion in the house for the next few
minutes. When Mrs. Manning had been sufficiently
quieted, her husband followed the dominie and Falkner,
who had taken some of the servants and gone in quest
of the missing boy.

I

CHAPTER        XVI.
WHEN we least expect danger it is at our door.-
Though we may linger in the paths of pleasure and
gather flowers from all the hedges, yet a serpent may
lie hidden in the rosy bower to inflict upon us the mor-
tal wound. Is it better for us to long for all the pleas-
ures of earth at once, and to expect the full train of evils
to flood in upon. us in their natural, course afterwards,
or to long for an alternation of the good and the evil?
It is difficult for us to bring our minds io a right deci-
sion.
All things do' not happen by chance, or the whole
fabric of the Christian religion would be- overthrown.
It was necessary in olden times for prophecies to be
fulfilled, which gave some semblance to FATALISM;. yet,
both Moral law and the light of reason dispell that in-
fatuation. If God moves in a mysterious way, it is'not
for us io divine the cause; or demand the reason.
There. are thousands of. things-as we are taught-.
which will not be revealed to us until the dgy of rgrne..
MENT. Why cannot man discern all things? Why is
it not given him to-explore all the foundations of science ?
Was he not forbidden to eat of the fruit of the Tree of
Life? Let us reason a while. Why can not a man uali

ROCKFORD.             149


t50                ROCIORD.
dawn a house fromits firm foundations?  Simply for
the reason that he is notan elephant. Why can he not
survey the starry Heavens and discover new planets
without the aid of A telescope ?  Simply because the
Great I AM hath placed those bodies too far for his
vision to scan.
"Why has not man a microscopic eye 
For this plain reason : man is not a fly."
If the father of Corolan had known what evil would
have befallen his son, his 'influence and fatherly kind-
ness would have kept the boyya close prisoner at home.
Bt Mr. Manning was like the majority of' men; he
was perfectly willing to trust tochance in some respect.
The paths that youth are compelled to tread are so be-
sprinkled with flowers and thbrns, that every step is a
venture. But to our narrative.
Oorolan saddled the black pony, and having mounted,
rode off briskly in the direction of Oak-Lawn----the vil-
lage at which his father recieved his mails. As we have
before related, the boy -had a will of his own. He was
possessed of a  dauntless spirit, and if he took it into
his head to. accomplish an object, he would never desist
from an endeavor until he had tried eveiy expedient.
If he had possessed the same aptitude for his studies
that he did for sport and pleasure, Falkher would never
have supplanted him in the estimation of the dominie.
The principal' object that Corie had in view on that
morning was to rid himself of the presence of his
teacher,'for whom he entertained no good will.  He

ROCKFORD
urged the pony into a canter--the submissive quad-
ruped obeyed. He pressed him to' the utmost extent of
his speed-still the pony made no resistance. -For two
miles the caprices of the boy vexed, and tortured. the
pony from the most tardy to the swiftest gait.
When Corolan had spent as much time at the office
as he desired, in playing marbles and ball with his ac-
quaintances, he.applied for and received his father's
mail, and started towards home. When he had accom-
plished about one-half of the distance 'between the office
and his father's house, he endeavored to urge the pant-
ing pony into a full speed ; but the reluctant beast-
tired out with cruel treatment from his young master-
became restive and threw him upon the roadside.
When dominie Heflin and Falkner' approached the
spot where the unconscious boy lay, they were rejoiced
to discover that he was not dead. Mr. Manning arrived
soon with the family physician, whomf he had happily
encountered on the road. Corolan was much bruised
and stunned by the fall, but it was uncertain as .to the
extent of the injury. It was certain that he was seri-
ously, if not fatally injured. , He was speedily conveyed
homeland placed in his bed. Falkner could not be pre-
vailed upon to leave the bed-side of his brother; and
the mother--after the first shock had passed--remained
by the unconscious Corolan as.a ministering angel..
For several days and nights Corie suffered 'immensely,
yet he seemed perfectly unconscious of what was pass-
ing around him. If he spoke,, it was to warn his schopl-
mates from trespassing uponliis rights. .'It was evident

J

IY
t{


t+~2  IOOKI?111.                                                OO FORD&amp;

thatfrom a se'e-e shock which the brain had received,
that sensitive organ had suffered seriously. The physi-
cian informed the parents that, with proper' treatment,
their son might' recover in tlhe course of a few weeks.
Falkner endeared himself, still more to the parents by
his unremitting attentions to Cone. If cold cloths were
to be applied to the head' of his brother, his willing
hinds performed the task. He would sit for hours and
fan the fevered ,brow of his brother, and shed tears of
sorrow' at poor Corie's misfortune.  .
Tfl he was overcome with fatigue and constant vigils,
he could not beprevailed upon to- leave the room, but
would'~seekrepose upon a couch by 'Corne's bed-side.- .-
Blessed"Falkner! why should the dreams or the reali-
ties of life ever disturb 'the repose of 'one. so pure as
thou"Wert? .
One night .when Corie had revived, and there was a
change in his condition for the bettat, Falkner-who
had not left the room during the entire day-extended
himself' upon the couch and slept. At.first he scarcely
moved;-,but soon 'he became troubled as one in a fright-
fal dream.w Let us relate his' dream, as told'to his fath-
er thie next day:
He dreamed that he was   bahild, quite young. He
dwelt =in a far-off clime. His father and mother were
so fond of hin that' they would scarcely permit him to
leae their presence.' He dwelt with them in a T1hrge,
fine house--so unlike the one he had lived in so .1ng.
Alhe' furniture was of the most costly kind. He was
reminded of some' scenes in' the "Arabian Nights "-

12

itO- CKFoi l .-

S

3

t

x
P
.y
1
. J
t

yet, all the appearance' of his dream had -a 'enblance
ofr reality. .He dreamed that he was the owner of a
large og and a small canine pet, with 'which his hours
were spent in much glee. "The scene changed. He'was
sailing upon what appeared toihim a broad river, with
his father' and mother. As the' boat cut the rolling
waves andthe breeze fanned his infantile cheeks, he ex-
perienced sensations 'of pleasure. The scene changed
again. He was playing beside the shore of that broad
river with his nurse. Some fierce looking men landed
close beside him.' They seized him,. struggling in the
embraces of the nurse, and bore 'him off. So great was
the struggle in his bosom,' that he awoke, exclaiming,
Saveme, father! oh! where is my mother ?"
Mr. Manning rushed td the 'couch, and raised the boy
up and observed that he was .as pale as marble.".
"Oh! father, where am I?" exclaimed Falkner, "I
have had such a horrid dream."'.'
" Pray relate it, 'son," said the father, "I am troubled
to see you in such agony."
"Oh'! I shudder to think of it. I cannot tell you
now. Oh! father, tell me, am I not your son'? At
times, 'of late, I have heard you speak words whose mean.
ing I have been. at a loss to divine."
"Falkner, I' should be a miserable man indeed, did I
not esteem you more than a .son. Come to this bosom,
darling of. my soul! -Sleep, Falkner, go to your bed;.
mother and I will, watch by.the  couch of 'Corie4 ;You
have much need of rest."

153


afew days Corse was so much better that he was
en  idtto walk out.upon the lawn ,supported by the
strong armofdhis brother  Falkner was perfectly de-
lighted to see the great improvement in the condition of
his brother.
Day byt day. health and strength returnedtoe Corie,
and by the- time vacation was at an end, the brothers
were tired of sport,, and joyfully resumed their ,studies
under the; astute supervision of the wise dominie Heflin.
Two years passed away, and still the. brothers were
at school  alkner was now.prepared for college. He
was tall,,nuscular and active. His face was almost
efferginately beautiful, while his dark, auburn hair rest-
edin  m  ny a curl upon his shoulders. His soft, blue
eye gave tokens of a greater degree of intelligence than
is usually possessed by boys of his age.
Corie had not improved much in books, but he had
grown rapidly. his disposition had -slightly changed
for the better.  ije had .eased to hate the dominie, and
had learned to love Falkner. Within a few weeks it
was decided that Falkier should be sent to the Univer-
sity f     M=--, only a few days' travel from home.. As
there was.a preparatory school attached to the Univer-
sity, Corie, who had expressed a willingness to attend
'his brother, waste be Falkner's companion.
While Mrs. Manning is preparing for the departure
of, the, sons, we will relate a few;events which may not
beuninteresting to:the reader.

i
.
G
T
i
yG
X.

15

CHAPTER         XVII.
IF we are particular at all times to respect the opin-
ions of our friends, we Will not be obliged to make use-
less, apologies. The.ancient philosophers supposed that
next to wisdom, silence was the most commendable of
virtues. If it were possible for our friends to remain
silent and let our own actions speak for us, we might
often be relieved of a world of trouble. Those who
seek after popular favor are too often extolled to the
skies by senseless wights whose opinions are worth not
a sous, while the meritorious remain in oparative ob-
scurity. It was thus the case with poor dominie Hefl i,
who had more talent than one in a thousand of those
good men who are devoting their time and talents to
the education of youth. He had remained in the back-
ground so long that it seemed as second nature to him
to court obscurity. If 'he had been puffed by-the press,
as some are now-adaf who have. not the scintilla of merit,
it might have destroyed his usefulness. 'Besides being
a very fine scholar, and a teacher' whose merit  was at
least appreciated by those who were directly interested,
he could survey land, draw up deeds; transcribe ac-
counts, and, upon a pinch, write wills.
If the good'dominie was not reaping the rich rear
of his merits in this world, he' Was laying up his treasury

ROCKFOR~D.

r,~


14O6     '    .    ROUKFORD.
in Hearen.-.where neither moth nor rust Zan corrupt-
where thieves do not break through and steal. 'He
had surely performed his duty in teaching Falkner and
Cone. If the first-named had gained much by his wise
instructions, the, second at least remembered some. of
the wise tenets.
We said that the boys were rgearly upon the point, of
leavingfor the. University. Several days were wanting,
to 'fillup thre' space ere the day appointed for their de-
parture woulplarrive. The events of an hour oi- of a
day maydecide the fate of an empire, or may raise o-
lower a man who isstruggling.for supremacy.
One evening while the 'family'were seated at the sup-
per-table,. one of the 'servants came hastily into the
hQ'Use, and stated that a man had been found in a faint-
inig 'condition not far from the front gate. It was sup-
posed by the servants that he had been thrown from his
horse, as his traveling sack had been found not far
from where he lay; and it was not at all probable that
a man so well cladas the unfortunate, 'would be found
performing his journeyson foot.
Mr. Marping and his sons left the table in, haste,,to
go to the relief of the map  They were followed by
the good domine, who happened to be spending the eve-
ning with the boysjust upon the eve of-their departure.
,FMkner being the swiftest of:the party; arrived first
at the place where the wounded man'; lay. He raised.
his head from the ground and discovered that the blood
wa,  issuing from .a awund whichhad doubtless been
caused by his head coming:in contact with a hard sub-

,ROOKFORD.            157

stance upon the toad-side. The man was evidently too
weak to 'hold conversation with the party, and was im-
mediately taken to the house.
.Falkner was forthwith dispatchedsfor the family phy-
sician, who resided but a short distance from the ho me-
stead. While he was absent, the stranger was divested
of his apparel, and placed in a comfortable bed. Mr.
Manning had. some experience in the treatment of
wounds and the management of invalids. The expert-
ness of the good dominie in staunching the'blood and
applying bandages to the head of the unconscious man,
proved that 'he was equal to any emergency.
"What a finely formed man this is, friend. Manning,"
said the classical dominie. ' "'His hair, though partial
'ly gray, has the  appearance of having been of a beau-
tiful black color. Look at his handsome features. Old'
age has 'not made this havoc; grief or dissipation has
taken time by the forelock."
"True, dominie," said the good man," circumstances,
at times, hasten the flight of old age. . .Have you not
read of men who have grow gray in.one night ?"
"I' have, but those instances 'are rare. I read of a
man whose 'occupation was that' of 'gathering the eggs
of birds which build their nests in the clefts of rocks
upon the sides of mountains and yawning precipices.
They were compelled 'at'-times to. obtain the objet -of
their pursuit by perilous adventures. - The father of the
boys, upon one 'opcasion, was 'lowered several :hundred
feet' by a 'rope, in order that he might obtain the eggs
of numerous birds. He had despoiled the nestsof many


158

of their treasures, not neglecting to break in upon the
sanctity of the great of an eagle. the signal. had been
give for his sons to' draw him up. He- was gradually.
rising to the top of the steep precipice, when the mother
eagle/attacked him with all the fury- of her bellicose
nature.  Drawing a ,hunting knife which he wore,
concealed in a sheath, he dispatched the bird, but
in so doing,-he almost severed; the cord by which he
swung. It .is. said that'he was perfectly, gray when he
was taken, fainting, from the noose in -the rope, by
his sons.'
Just at this moment Falkner entered the room, follow-
ed by Doctor Gillis. A description of this singular in-
dividualmay not be out of place. He, was a man just
above the medium height, rather thickly set. Judging
from the wrinkles that illustrated his swarthy face, he
might have been on ;the shady side of forty... His.eyes
were of a yellowish gray, and his head was nearly bald.
His sandy whiskers were sprinkled with many gray ones.
His clothes were cut after the most approved, style,
but his awkward gait and -rustic air plainly indicated
that he had not been used to fine apparel. He had evi-
dently learned all his manners from observation. -
"Good evening,. Col.' Manning," said the doctor.
"Your obedient servant,, professor Heflin" .Here the
doctor raised his gold-headed cane full in, view of tthe
company, and handing it and his hat, to Cone, desired
him to place them in one of the outer rooms. Pulling
of ;his kid' gloves, and taking a pinch of snuff from.his
silversnuff-box, 'this disciple' of' iEsculapius was pre-
vailed upon to take a seat.

ROCEFORD-.

I

"Whom have we here, Col. Manning, that needs
niedical aid?  Have you learned the circumstances by
which he came to this accident?  Have hid wounds bled
profusely ?  Do his pains seem to be acute ? "
"It is difficult to answer all your queries at once,
doctor ; please examine him,, and apply what remedies
you can.
"But, 901. Manning," said the doctor, "it is entirely
necessary to ask all these questions before we can diag-
nose a  ase. If ZEsculapius himself, ,were present-
with all he remedies known to the healing art, or if I
possessed all the healing herbs known to the .wise an-
cients-nothing could be done for a patient without a
proper knowledge 'of his disease. You are aware, also,
Colonel, that the ancients were ignorant as to the' use
of 'the lancet." It was never thought the blood circu-
lated, until Harvey demonstrated it conclusively to
King Charles the 'First. When our class graduated,
Colonel, in. the city of Philadelphia, just twenty years
ago, last June-"
"Do, if you please," interposed the Colonel, "go to
the b -side of, the stranger and see what he needs.' I
do not desi to have a lecture, upon Anatomy, ,Pathol-
ogy or Surg ry.'. You have told me all of those things
more than one hundred times."
." Sir," said the doctor, much offended, "the-fraternity
of which I am a member should have', some deference
shown them. D9. you suppose. we burn the ' midnight
lamp in vain?  Do you consider the researches we
make in science. nothing?  Questions, sir, questions

.R.R CIFORD.

159

l


sh  d be anger, when put upon abstruse subjects."
*'r."beg pardongdotor, said Mr.,Minning, "but I do
not see why yon.sEould ,male*so much delay. Be kind
enough to step to the bed-side and examine the patient.'
The doctor beinthus importuned, and having car-
riedins1 point--winchwas to make a display of his
learning before the dominie--went to the bed-side of
-  the wounded man and felt of his pulse, which he re-
ported as indicating much fever.
"Please requestMrs. Manning to send me some do-
mestic goodsfor bandages, a plate, knife and spoon.
and.some warm water."
When those things were brought, the invincible knight
of the pilbboxidivested himself of his coat, rolled up
his sleeves, and made awful preparations for a 'display'
of medical skill. A small side-table was placed before
him, and his saddle-bags were. brought in by the ever-
attentive Falkner.
"Now, Cone,?' said the 'doctor, "bring me ,a small
quantity of treacle."
"A snall quantity of what? " said the boy.
"Treacle, my lad; -do you not know what treacle is?"
"I do not, sir," said the boy, "perhaps brother Falk-
ner kiows, he is about 'to'-leave for College.".
"It is molass$, brother," said Falkner, "you are so
fond of it and do' not know the several names under
which it'is known!"                        .
If folks mould use fewer big words and more plain
English, -said' he boy, "we, 'would: have less, use for
wise-doctors and learned teachers."

ROCKFORD.

.161

The doctor called for twenty things in a few minutes.
Falkner and Cone were heartily tired of running to
their mother for lint, pins, salve, thread, flarnel, sugar
and milk.
Mr. Manning and the dominie were afraid to open
their mouths, dreading that the descendant of the god
of the healing art would launch off into learned disqui-
sitions upon Epilepsy, Catalepsy, or Hydrophobia.-
Dr. Gillis thrust his pen-knife into a dozen vials, and
extracted from each a small quantity' of powder. In
a very mysterious manner--known only to medical
men-he mixed up a small compound, (thanks to the
all-absorbing treacle;) having rolled it out to the proper
length, he cut the compound into a dozen fearfully ook-
ing slugs, which were hastily formed into globules. An
eye-witness would have pronounced them PILLS.
Oh! gentle reader, if you have the same horror of
PIaS that we have, the very sight of a little round box
with red sides, blue top and white bottom, will disturb
your nerves.
The doctor looked up with a self-satisfied air, as much
as to say, what a wonderful thing is the science of Phar-
macy. He next mixed up several vial-fulls of mysteri-
ous liquids.
"Now, friend Manning," said the man of science,
"let us examine the wounds of the stranger."
"With pleasure," said the host, whose 'patience had
long since grown threadbare.  We should have done
that at first, but doctors must have their way."
The doctor, when he had exploded all his gas, was
11p

0

i
;#
r,,
,, :
,
4
&amp; z_
.,}
1   d
rt
mot'
,T
. :
.,S
y{
9
6
i'


ROCKFORD.            168

10g2            ROKFORD.

expert enough. The bandages which the good dominie
had applied were removed, andthe wound was ,washed
and properly dressed. When the doctor left, the patient
was in a calm sleep. The dominie and Falkner con-
sented to watch by his bed-side, and administer the med-                      CHAPTER        XVIII.
icines at the propel time.
BLESSED is he that invented sleep-says so
-it wrappeth one up as with a blanket. We
say that doubly blessed is he who hath an op
to sleep, and a good bed to lie upon. It is ce
all of God's creatures do not enjoy healthy s
is it within the power of every one to recline
downy bed. Two of the sweetest bards that
has ever produced, were so indigent that they
afford to rent rooms for lodgings. When the
closed at night, those authors with seedy
were ,compelled to walk the streets of Lon
dawn, unless generous friends invited them
houses. The great Fielding, whose quaint, cl
of composition has rarely if ever been excelled
beset with bailiffs and other pliant officers of
that he could find but little rest either by nig
Doctor Samuel Johnson, the wonder of his a
articles in the Rambler set London in a. blaz
improvident of what money his great genius e
him, that he was frequently without the comn
series of life.
Some authors suppose that an evil consc
many barriers to the incursions of Morpheus;
is not the ease in every instance. Many a m

me author
can truly
portunity
rtain that
sleep; nor
to upon a
England
could not
cafes were
garments,
don "until
* to, their
assic style
d, was so
the law,
ht or .day
ge., whose
e, was so
earned for
ion neces-
ience has
but such
alefactor,


164             ROCKFORD

whose cruel hands have been imbrued in the blood of
innocent victims, has slept soundly on4the night pre-
vious to his execution.
1Ill health,. 'a hearty supper, the want of exercise, and
irregular habits; will banish sleep from the eyelids of
us all,, whether we have good or evil consciences.
The stranger, whom chance had cast as an inmate in
the house of Mr. Manning so unexpectedly to the mem-
bers of the household, slept soundly- and sweetly-
(thanks to the good quality of the, medicinal potations
left in charge of. the dominie and the tender-hearted
Falkner.). The dominie, whose thirty years' occupation
as teacher had taught him to sleep in his chair in an
upright position, when the hour at which he usually re-
tired arrived, could not keep himself awake. He placed
his hands over his eyes as if endeavoring to induce the
belief that he was in a state 'of meditation. Falkner
was-too well acquainted with his habits to believe that
the good dominie was awake, when every signal he made
was an indication that he was in the quiet retreat .of
Morpheus.
When the boy was warned by the significant strokes
of, the. clock, that the hour had approached for the
stranger, to 'take his medicine, the good 'dominie was
easily aroused from his meditative slumbers by a gentle
touch.
"Carissime puer, dormiebam," would be the only ex-
lamation the sage would be heard to. utter. He would
rouse himself from his slumbers and exert all his efforts
toyassist 'the boy in performing the goodly' task of ad-
ministering the medicine of the renowned Gillis.

ROCKFORD                  165
What a' strange picture was there presented to an ob-
server! Old age, with all the respect that is due it,
was represented in the person of dominie Heflin. Mid-
dle age, or the prime of life, was truly impersonated in
the character of the unknown, who lay stretched upon
the bed of affliction. Everything that is concentrated in
youth, hope and happiness, was impersonified in the
person of the gifted youth, who sat by the bed-side of
the sick man.
Falkner had arrived at the period of life when his
mind had commenced expanding. He had.read most
of the works of the authors whose instructions are
sought after. He longed to mingle with those whose
path led to the temple of Fame. The instructions he
had recieved from his teacher and from his dear father,
were of such a character that he was not enabled -to
pause or linger by the wayside.
The good dominie slept, because it was his nature to
do so. He could not have maintained the. wakefulness
of the watchful Falkner, because he had arrived at the
period of life when age must succumb to the force of
circumstances.
The map of life was spread out before our hero, with
all its phases of good and evil. He thought it within
his power to choose between the two extremes. Still
there was an incubus which weighed upon his mind.--
He had been early taught to consider that every man
held his happiness in his own hands. If chance should
cast the weight of the balances in his favor, it seemed
as if Fate were upon his side ; but' might it not be mor-


ROCKFORD.            167

166            ROOKFORD.

ally true that the affairs of men are not entirely di
rested by chance ?
The dominie slept as sweetly as ever he did in the
halls of academus, Falkner smiled to see how the
good man endeavored to make it appear that he was only
in a meditative mood.
Falkner had arrived at that interesting period of life
when the mind is most active and the intellect is not
allowed to slumber,. It was not his intention to remain
idle while there remained a chance for him to improve
his mind or to render himself useful to his fellow man.
Even whilst he watched by the bed of the unfortunate
man, he held a useful volume in his hands.
When the sick mad was restless, the good boy was 'by
his side in an instant to attend to his wants. The
cooling., drink was handed him by the attentive boy,
while the aged dominie slumbered in his easy chair.
The cold cloths were' applied to the brow of the sick
man by the same tender hands ; and when day dawned
the vigilant boy was relieved from his watchful post by
Mr. Manning.
It is not'exactly certain how long the good teacher
would have slumbered, had not the golden rays of the
morning sun aroused the erudite sage from his dreams.
When he rubbed his eyes, and observed that Falkner
was not present, he expressed some surprise; but the
good dominiee soon reflected that if there was any vir-
tue attendant upon the vigils of the past night, himself
would share but little of it.-
Mr. Manning had learned from his beloved boy that

the medicine had been regularly administered, to the
patient, (thanks to the watchfulness of Falkner.) But
in order to cater to the vanity of the old teacher, Mr.
Manning could not refrain from passing some compli-
ments upon his good offices to the invalid.
When the dominie sought his-home on that morning
after breakfast, the astute Corolan ventured the remark
that the.teacher had imposed upon the goodness of his
brother Falkner. He knew that it was a matter of im-
possibility for the teacher to maintain his watchfulness
even by day. If the sick man had received any atten-
tions at all, it was certain that dominie Heflin had not
been a voluntary agent in rendering them.
The horse of the invalid had' been arrested not far
from the house by one of the servants. It was a mat-
ter of conjecture as to the social standing of the un-
known; yet, there would be time enough for the host to
make all necessary enquiries when the convalescence of
the guest would render it expedient.
In a very few days the stanger had improved so rap-
idly, that it was no longer necessary for him to remain
in bed. He was a man of great intelligence, and was
competent to interest his youthful acquaintances who
sought his company. Corie was as much delighted at
his anecdotes as Falkner was interested in his descrip-
tions of his extensive travels.
;Day by day the invalid's health improved ; still'Falk-
ner was his constant companion. One evening, when
they were walking in the grove in front of the house,
the following conversation passed between then:

4


168

ROGKFORD.

,You ,say that you are about fifteen years of age,
4alkner, and have resided at this place from your in-
fancy. Have you no recollections of having dwelt at
another home ? "
1 Iam at a loss to comprehend the nature of your
enquiry," said the boy, "m1y father has been one.of the
most indulgent of parents, whose love to me has been
unbounded. Pray tell me why you have propounded
the question ? "
"I cannot tell you. now, Falkner," said the stranger,
"we often propound questions which have but little orf
no relevancy to the.subject of conversation, yet subse-
quent events. may bring obscure points to light."
"You distress me, sir," said the boy, grasping his
companion by the arm, "pray do not tantalize me with
wanton insinuations. If you know anything of my
early history, of which I am totally ignorant, in the
name of God,. relieve my anxiety., I am prepared to
listen to any revelation, however disagreable it may be."
"Falkner," said the stranger, whose dark eyes~eam-
ed with a melancholy pleasure, as they. rested upon the
boy, "there are some revelations we cannot make except
at the proper time. Do not allow what I have said to
distress you. . It is true, you may think it unkind in.me
to withhold from you. that which it might be imprudent
in me to reveal. You see before you a stranger whom
yor unremitting attentions during his illness,. have
greatly endeared to you. Promise me faithfully that
you will reveal no, part of this conversation to your fath-
er, or to any other person."

ROCKFORD.          1X69

"If there is any truth in your insinuations, I can see
no impropriety in asking my father for a full explana-
tion upon every point relative to myself."
"Believe me, my young friend," resumed the stranger,
"it is better for you to make me the promise I request.
You are young yet, and do not know the ways of the
world. I would iot fill thy young mind with sorrow
for the wealth of Croesus. Do you see that star which
the paling rays of the setting sun have 'given to our
sight ? Whilst the great lamp of day illumined the
world, the inferior planets held no sway, yet the rays
of that star have not been less brilliant. But see, as
the sun hides his head behind the horizon, and the soft,
mellow tints of the twilight.are shed around us, each
one of the-small planets come out and sparkle with crys-
taline delight. Everything has been made by God for
some wise purpose. We cannot foresee our own desti-
nies ; yet it is better for us to bide our time. Will you
promise me not to relate what has occurred between us
this evening ?"
"It is strange that you should make such a request,
my dear friend," said Falkner, "and I am at a great loss
to comprehend you; still, if it is your desire-rand
doubtless you have your reasons-I will conceal my sus-
picions in my bosom."
''Noble boy," said the stranger, "take this, and wear
it for my sake ; it may, at some time act as an amulet
to you.
Falkner received a beautiful gold chain, to which was
attached a medal. The letters "C. R." were engraved
upon it.

1
1
'  LFt
j
it
T
1

I


170                ROCKFORD.                                                          ROOKFORD.
"Tell me your name," said Falkner, "I have never
before asked it."
" Conrad Rodman-and if you should ever be re-
duced to the necessity of calling upon a friend for as-
sistance, address me at --.--."                                                 CHAPTER         XIX.
A FEW days subsequent to the one
conversation occurred between Falkner
the latter departed from the hospitable ma
Manning. He placed a letter in the hands
ning, having exacted a promise from him
should remain unbroken for the space of
This, thought Mr. Manning, was a strange
he yielded to the urgent solicitations of
the packet was carefully placed in a priv
his writing desk..
Mr. Manning was troubled in his mind.
ed that the letter had especial reference
who was as dear to him as his own son C
Rodman the father of Falkner? and had
thrown the father and son together? He
lution to conceal from Falkner the fact t
foundling. He would make no revelation
boy until he had taken his degree at th
lie fondly trusted that he would be enabi
the mystery before Falkner attained his m
The trunks of the boys were carefully]
good' mother, whose tears of affection had
nice garments as she folded them and laid
proper places.

171
on which the
and Rodman,
nsion of Mr.
of Mr. Man-
that the seal
five years.-
request; yet,
Rodman, and
ate drawer of
He suspect-
to Falkner,
orolan. Was
chance thus
formed a reso-
hat he was a
s to the dear
e University.
ed to explore
majority.
packed by the
,bedewed the
I them in their

r


ROCKFORD.             173

"I wonder why that black imp does not bring out the
carriage," said Corolan, "here' we have been waiting
more than an hour. Master Falkner. will cry his eyes
out at parting with papa, if we do not hasten away from
this place. Falkner, stay here with papa, and learn to
be a farmer. You are already farther advanced in book
learning than I ever expect to be, yetI am anxious to
travel some."
"You must try and exercise more patience, my dear
boy," said his father. "I have' ordered the driver to
wash the-carriage and grease the wheels carefully. If
you had as much love for your father as your brother
exhibits upon all occasions, my cup of bliss would be
full."
"Ah !.father, you think I do not love you because I
am too shame-faced to hug and kiss you and follow you
up, as brother Falkner does. It is, asYmuch as I can
do to let mother devour me with a'thousand kisses.each
day."
"Promise me, Corie," said his mother, "that you
will be a good boy, and listen to the advice of your
brother. He, loves'you more tenderly than you do him.
Oh! Corie, learn to imitate his good example and stu-
dious habits, and you will gladden the heart of your
mother."
" I see the driver is coming with the carriage," said
the father. "Here is your purse, Falkner; you will find
in it enough money to, pay your college bills for one
year. You must give Corie some pocket-change as he
requires it ; but I need not advise you to be economical.

Good-bye, my sons.; write to me as soon as you get to
the University."
The mother kissed the boys and shed many tears at
their departure. Corie vould have given birth to a few
tears himself, but he had none to shed. As the carriage
moved off, he thrust his head from the window and re-
quested his father not to let black Dick ride his pony
too hard. He wanted his fishing-poles kept in their
proper place in the carriage house. Falkner was too
sad to enjoy the rattling conversation of Corie. He
was leaving his father, whom he almost worshipped.
"Come, brother, dry up those tears ; you cannot ex-
pect to be with papa always. He has placed me in your
charge, but if you are to cry after this style, I shall
think that you are not a safe guardian.
"Oh ! Corie, you are so unkind. Have you no ten-
derness in your nature ? You parted with father and
mother as carelessly as if you expected to be gone but
a few days."
"Master Falkner, you may yet learn some valuable
lessons from me. Ido not care much for books, and I
thank my stars that I have but little of the girl's na-
ture. You will pore upon the pages of a dry book as
if your life depended upon your learning its musty con-
tents. You have spent enough time in drawing and
painting to have made you an adept in each branch of
the art. Do you suppose that papa is a-going to let you
set up as a painter'or drawing master?"
"You wrong painters and drawing masters, brother
Conic, if you intend to cast a slur -upon their professions.

172             RO GK.F(MID.

I

t


174                ROCKEORD.
If I thought I could arrive at distinction as an artist,
*and father should happen to lose his fortune, I do not
suppose there would be any impropriety in my 'setting
up' as a painter."
"You misapprehend me, master Falkner; it is not
my intention.to wrong any man wilfully. I should feel
very sorry indeed to see you laboring in a close room
with the brush and pencil- As for me, I love the sun-
shine and the cold, piercing winds., I am not disposed
to addle my brains by hard study. I care more for my
dogs, and gun, and fishing tackle, than for the knowl-
edge that is contained in all the books in the world."
"It seems, Corie, that you. are perfectly regardless
of 'the wishes of father and mother. They desire to
see you a studious boy. Why do you act so?  You can
learn anything if you will only apply your mind to the
task. I shall be very much displeased with your con-
duct if you prove as inattentive to the instructions of
the teachers of the preparatory school as you have been
heretofore."
"'Why do you.wish to force me to study hard books
against my will? Do-you ever expect to derive much
benefit from your incessant labor in translating Latin
and Greek? .I can read and write tolerably well, and
with a few extra accomplishments, which I hope to gath-
er by way of observation, I shall not despair of making
the most of life."
When the boys arrived at the town where they pro-
posed to take ~passage in the stage, the carriage was
sent back home The stage was not expected to leave

ROCKFoRD.            175

until towards night, and the lads had ample time to take
a stroll through the town. Falkner endeavored to point
out the objects of interest to his brother, who was per-
fectly delighted with everything he saw. How happy,
thought Corie, must they be who dwell in this beautiful
place !
"Look, brother Falkner, at that church yonder !
what is the use of that small house upon the top of it,
which runs up to so sharp a point ? We have no such
churches in our old dull neighborhood. We are only
twenty miles from home, yet father has never ;thought
proper to let us come here before. If I do not improve
my time and see some strange sights before I return
home, then you may call me a dull boy."
"Look out, Cone," said Falkner, "those horses will
tramp you under their feet. You must not stand ga-
ing idly at one object so long, or .folks will "think that
you have never seen a town before."
"People will think 'entirely right, brother, for we
have been kept at home like close prisoners. Look at
those beautiful chains in the window of that watch-
maker's shop. I see one almost exactly like the one
Mr. Rodman gave you."
"They are pretty indeed, Corie; if you will be eco-
nomical, and not spend the money mother gave you, too
lavishly, I will put by some of mine and we will pur-
chase one for you."
Every one that saw those interesting boys, was struck
with the beauty' and manly bearing of the one, and the
independent, but easy manners of the other. When they

I,-


176

ROCKFORD.

informed those who interrogated them that they were
on their way to college, they were kindly assisted in
purchasing their tickets. Corie was as much delighted
at the idea of riding in the stage as Falkner was of
knowing that he would soon be at the University,.where
he could apply all his energies to the, acquisition of
knowledge. The stage was crowded, but the boys ob-
tainedasgood  ats as any of the passengers. Corie
was very ta1kative ; but when the night was far advanc-
ad; he stnetched himself upon the breast- of his brother
and slept as sweetly as if he had been in his own bed.
Th good boy extended a parental care over his
brother. He held him fast in his arms to protect him
from harm.
Bless your soul!" murmured 'Falkner, "you have
but little love for any person, but -for mother's sake I
ill protect you with my life. You shall want for noth-
ihgif it is in my power to assist you."
The'attentions of the good boy did not escape the
observation of the passengers. One- of them said to
Falkner:
"You fake great care of your brother, I see."
"It is my duty," said the boy, "we are going to col-
lege, and mother has entrusted him to my care. If any
harm should befall him, I would be loth to see the face
o     of mother again. He desired so much to come with me.
that I consented to become whis protector."
You are a noble youth," said the elderly man, who
hadtaken quite a fancy .to Falkner. "I would give all
the wealth I possess- if, I had a son like you. A long

I,

IIO 'FORO

I7

ti

time agodJ ;had afair-hairedLhoy stolen from{me.
loved him Aso -tenderly that I could= scarcely'trust= him
out of my sight. I have searched for him diligently
over the United States--still my eyes have no yet rested.
upon him. I have received anonymous letters stitimg
that my son was living ",----- .Here the grief of, the
noble looking man--who was probably about fifty years
of age -,choked up his utterance.
"How unfortunate !" said Falkner. "I trust you may
yet, recover your son. Have you no other children? "
I have not, my lad, but.,we have adopted a daughter
of one of our .deceased friends. She is beautiful and
charming, but can the place of my son be filled-?  What
is your name?"
"Falkner Manning," said the boy. "My father
dwells at Oak-Lawn, in the 'county of S -
The conversation, between Falkner and the stranger
was very interesting and entertaining, especially to the
latter, who, on parting with the boy, declared to a friend
that he was the, most-interesting yotth he had ever seen.
Falkner. and Crolan arrived at their destination in
two days ,from the time they started from home. The
good youth had been -so well prepared,(thanks to the
kindness of dominic Hefliny) that he entered the Fresh-
man class very. easily.  Corie was entered as an acade-
mician. He, was permitted to share the roomsof his
brother. If Core had been delighted with thes large
towns and smallyiliages hlihad passed throgh, he was
completely charged t the  appear ngieheag
12  t. h', paac      t:


178            ROOKFORD.

cent edifices on the Campus. Falkner had much diffi-
culty in directing the attention of his brother to' his
books. When he had arranged his room and been re-
ceiv4d as a regular student of the University, he wrote
the following letter to his father:                                               'CHAPTER       XX.
"UNIVERSITY OF M--, August I
"My dear and much beloved father: Br
has just ceased his noise in the room, and
preparations for retiring. It is with unfeign
that I attempt to write an epistle to you. B
dear father, as to excuse any imperfections th
find in this letter, as it is the first I have ever
to write to you. I can now appreciate some
tur.s the good dominie used to deliver to our
the subject of composition. I was too young
prehend the meaning of the technical term
man made use of, but his tuition, even upon
struse subjects, may yet benefit me.
"It has been scarcely ten days since I p
you, yet it seems as if an age had passed
time. I thought I loved you dearly while at
my affection has increased doubly of late.
been advising me by all means to abandon t
remaining here and return immediately to
braces. It is childish in me to be writing to
such style but I can not help it.
"To say that I pm pleased with the Univers
erything appertaining to it, is but to confess
I have a finely furnished room, with as ma

st, 18-.
ether Cone
is making
ed pleasure
e so .kind,
at you may
attempted
of the lee-
class upon
*g to com-
s the good
L those ab-
arted with
since that
home, but
Corie has
he idea of
your em-
you in any
;ity and ev-
the truth.
any useless

ROCKFORD*            179


9

181

luxuries as your fatherly care allows me at home.-
Gorie sometimes desires extra attention, but I have
assured him that I would not consent to spend more
money than is absolutely necessary ; therefore I have
only engaged the services, together with the aid of sev-
eral of the students, of one negro, whom the Faculty
permit to wait upon the students.
"I must give you a short description of my examina-
tion. When I had presented myself for admission, the
old professors, (bless their wise pates !)' ogled me through
spectacles which seemed to possess the sense of seeing.
I could scarcely withstand the gaze of the wise men -
but I tried with ,my utmost powers to preserve my equa-
nimity. How my timid heart throbbed when, in com-
pany with forty boys, I was called upon to recite. My
tongue became dry and silent. I could scarcely articu-
late one word ; but, remembering your advice, I com-
posed myself, and commenced reading one of the
Eclogues of Virgil. I was even surprised at my own
success, and when I sat down I perceived that the pro-
ressor who was conducting the examination was pleased
with my effort. I had but little difficulty in convincing
each one of the Faculty that I was prepared for entry
intothe Freshman class.
"IL have some difficultyin keeping brother in our room
at night ; yet I trust by entreaties and promises he may
disappoint our expectations. Corie has some pride, and
if I can operate upon that, I shall not despair of suc-
deeding in arrestingthis attention and directing it to his
boks.

"I have engaged a gentleman who gives lessons in
painting, to instruct me. I am heartily delighted with
his tuition,.and trust that I may be enabled to paint your
and mother's portraits when I come home in vacation.
If you think the expense is unnecessary, the painter's
instructions shall be instantly dispensed with.
"Kiss mother a thousand times for me, and let her re-
turn each salutation. Tell her that the beautiful ruffled
shirts she made me are admired by all the students.-
Corie has torn his new coat and almost spoiled his vest,
yet I have hopes that he will quit his sportive tricks.
"cGood night, dear father ; may angels guard you by
day and night ; remember your Falkner always in your
prayrs. Remember that you have ever a dutiful son
in your                              FALKNER.'
When Mr. Manning received the above letter from
Falkner his eyes were filled with the tears of affection.
How could he ever make the revelation to the boy that
he knew must be made sooner or later ! If Corolan
possessed one-half the talent that Falkner did, or if
he was endowed with the same good disposition which
rendered Falkner so amiable, then he might consent to
tell Falkner that he was not the brother of Corolan.
He believed that Falkner suspected that there was some
obscurity about his birth, but he hoped that the boy
would ever consider him as his own, dear parent.
The letter which Rodman had left with such strict
injunctions weighed heavily upon his mind. He desired
to know the information those mystic p ages might res

a
,
t
:
;
f3
u
4
Sy
2r4
L
.{,S
_

ROCKFORD.

1$0

ROCK FORD-.


ROOKFORD.            183

veal to him; yet he remembered that he had given his
pledge not to break the seal until the five years had ex-
pired. .
Was he bound to keep his pledge with a man who
was unknown to him-one who owed him the preserva-
tion of his life?  Mr. Manning felt that it was wrong
even to violate pledges given to an enemy, although the
moral law would have borne him out in that. But he
had pledged himself' not to break the seal of the letter
for a specified time, and, come weal or woe, his word
should be kept. He knew Falkner's confiding, yet in-
dependent disposition, and almost shuddered at the
consequences attendant upon the revelation. He was
ignorant as to the parentage~ of the boy. He could
never desert Falkner, but de half of his estate should
be offered him! Would he accept it ?  That was the
point that troubled Mr. Manning. Corolan was a gay
boy, whose love or attachment for an individual was not
orth a fig; yet, he was Mr. Manning's only child.
He loved him because he was his son-he loved Falkner
for himself alone.
" OAK-LAWN, August 15th, 18-.
Dear Son: Your kind letter reached me a few days
since by due course of mail, and as ?ou request it, I
hasten to dispatch you an early answer. I. rejoice ex-
ceedingly that you and Corie arrived safely at your place
of destination. I am sorry you did not relate the par-
ticulars of your trip, which, I doubt not, were highly
interesting to you and your brother.,

You will discover, my dear son, that the world abroad
is quite different from what it is at home. In your sit-
uation as student you will not be forced to contend with.
the world except in miniature. When you shall have-
grown older, and the leaden shadows of mature age-
have thickened around you, then you may realize
the responsibilities of'life. Beware of those who flat-
ter you; they are often foes to you, rather than friends..
They may seek to devour you with kind words and
endearing phrases, yet their actions are like a sepulchre
which, though white, smooth and ,beautiful without, is
filled with dead men's bones. Above all things, shun
the society of him who is devoid of integrity. The
baneful-influence of such a one is more to' be dreaded
than a contact with the Jpas tree. Truth is a lleav.-
enly virtue which shines resplendent under all circum-
stances ; like pure gold, the.,more it-, is burnished the
brighter it will glisten. Truth dwells at the bottom,
because the purest foundations are deepest. Truth is
located in the middle of every circle, for the reason
that it is equally distant from every arc.
" B'e plain and easy in your manners, so that every one
may claim your frendship. Borrow not from your friends,.
but lead to those that are needy. Be neat in your dress,
for the WORLD may judge you by your apparel Learn
while you are yet a youth to value the precepts of the
Bible-that great Book of 1ife. Let it be as dear to
you as the apple of your eye, though all inferior books.
be neglected.
" Be kind to your brother and keep him within the
paths of rectitude.
"God bless you, is the prayer of your father
T HEODORE MANNING."

ifr, CK    RD.

I


184               ROOKFI)ORD.

CHAPTER XXI.
WE shall not attempt to relate the particulars of a
boy's actions at college, as a narrative of that .kind
is not interesting to the general reader, A few words
upon college government may not be inappropriate.-
One of the objections to sending boys to college, is
that they learn bad habits. If no restraint is thrown
around them by strict discipline, it is not to be supposed
that a large number of boys and young men will remain
long in any Institution without diverging from the path
of rectitude. These that, are studious, modest and re-
served may withstand the thousand and one tempta-
tions wiich allure so many good youths from the paths
of virtue, and plunge them into the depths of misery.
What are familiarly known as college scrapes generally
originate from a desire  on the part of a few headstrong
boys to liave what they term "a little fun."  Sport,
like disipatioxi, when tho freely indulged in, is a dan-
gerous thing. The passions of boys, when once arous-
ed, are more violent than those of men, and more difli-
cult to allay. It is, generally the fault of discipline
that renders disagreeable occurrences among students
frequent. Moral suasion may do much in effecting a
change towards amelioration, yet there are some boys
whom the most stringently enforced rules often fail of

bringing into subjection. It is a fact, that outrages upon
buildings and the furniture are often perpetrated by
students who are desirous of attesting their aversion to
certain members of the Faculty, thus casting odium up-
on every member of the college. Numbers of boys have
been victimized by designing ring-leaders who had ob-
jects of their own to accomplish. When once the dis-
turbance ceases, the participants are generally penitent;
yet, if harsh measures are used in enforcing the penal-
ties of the violated law, the pride of the- students, in
many instances, when arraigned before the Faculty for
misdemeanors, will prevent them from making confes-
sions or of pledging themselves to offend no more.-
Would it not be better for the Faculty to use mild meas-
ures in enforcing the laws, by appealing to the honor of
the student? Let the laws be executed with firmness,
impartiality and moderation, with an eye single to the
welfare of the Institution, thus exhibiting a desire upon
the part of the Faculty to act upon each case in the
capacity of an unbiased tribunal, then there will be an
alacrity upon the part of every 'student. to respect the
laws.
Frequent lectures by the President upon moral sub-
jects, will tend, in an exceedingly great degree, to di-
rect the mind of the student-to, that course of- training
which will prepare him for usefulness and induce him to
eschew the evil counsels of the wicked.
It has been unwisely urged upon the Tiustees of
Universities to construct their laws requiring the stun
dents to obtain their board and lodging at the houses of

ROCKFORD.            1,85


ROCKFORD.            187

those who reside near the campus-thus using the rooms
of the University as recitation halls alone. Young men
will not submit to being placed under the surveillance
of a professor or tutor; neither will the latter consent
to play the part of a pedagogue or usher. Young men
will have occasional frolics, and it is better for them to
confine their REVELRIES within the sanctity (?). of their
own rooms than: to invade the underground regions of
a GIN COURT, imbibe the unhealthy potations of suspi-
eious decanters, treat forty sovereigns in the persons of
hangers-around, learn billingsgate phrases from idlers,
get gentlemanly drunk, boisterous and warlike-and
lastly, be conducted by the police .to a "LOcK-UP."
In a word, it is as easy a task to conduct the affairs of
a State as to govern one hundred and fifty young men,
with one hundred and fifty gold watches, one hundred
and fifty Colt's Repeaters, one hundred and fifty bottles
of choice "Old Otard," one hundred and fifty dulcineast
one hundred and fifty fine suits making at the tailors
shops, one hundred and fifty dollars a year of pocket-
money, and one hundred and fifty miles from their one
hundred and fifty fathers, who are satisfied to let their
dear sons have their own way. If the dear boys bring
home a "SHEEP SKIN" at the end of four years,. (which
they are unable to read) the delighted fathers feed as
happy as so many presidents.
Dear reader, isit not one hundred and fifty wonders
that the Faculty, students and sheep-skins all get along
as harmoniously as they do? -Bless all their dear souls,
(not the sheep skins) let us pray for them and drop the

subject. Colleges are good places to sow wilT oats in.
We are decidedly in favor of colleges with all their im-
perfections.
Falkner and Corolan were sitting in their room one
night soon after their' advent to the University of M -.
The former was busily engaged in reading one of the
Odes of Horace, while the latter was looking" at the
pictures in a book which one of the boys;had lent him.
"Come, brother," said Falkner, " do lay aside that
ridiculous book and- let me teach you your lesson.
Come, now, you remember what I promised you about
the chain, do you not?"
"Falkner," said the boy, "I do not think I shall ever
be able to learn Latin. I see but. little sense in it;
can you not prevail upon the teacher to let me skip it?"
4You talk so strangely, Cone, that I am astonished
at you. It is impossible for. you to enter College with-
out a thorough knowledge of Latin and Greek."
The boys were cut short in their conversation by a
knock at the door.4 Corie opened it, and admitted about
a dozen boys, who had come to pay the new-comers a
visit. Falkner welcomed them to his room and -desired
them to be seated.
"Falkner Manning," said one of the party, "we are
going to have a little 'burst up' to-night. You and
your brother must be of the party, since you are stran-
gers; besides, we have not initiated you into the mys-
teries of college life yet."
"You must excuse me, my friends,"-said Falkner; "I
do not desire to go out to-night. I promised father that

ROCKFORM


I would be studious, and not engage in any sports for-
bidden by the laws of the University. I must prepare
my lessons to-night, or my standing will not be high at
recitatios to-morrow."
"You talk as if you disdained our sport, Manning,"
said the spokesman of the party; "we are riot used to
having our mandates disobeyed. You will find it much
to your advantage to come with us without compulsion."
"With all due deference to your sports-of which I
know nothing-please allow me to remain in my room
with my brother, unmolested."
"You both shall go with us," said several, Who ap-
peared to become excited all at once.
"You cannot and shall not force us," said the reso-
lute boby.
One of the boys took hold of Corolan, who was in for
the sport, while several of them advanced towards
Falkner to coerce him into submission. The latter
pushed them aside, and rushed to rescue Corolan from
the strong youth who was marching off with him.
"Put down my brother, sir, or you shall feel my ven-
geance," said Falkner.
The command was not obeyed, and Falkner seized
the boy, and before assistance could be offered by the
astonished crowd, Corolan was rescued, and the boy
whom Falkner had encountered, was hurled violently
from the room into the street. The other boys were
dreadfully enraged at the conduct of Falkner, and gath-
ered around toconquer him. Falkner's blood was up,
and he bade them stand off. One of the boldest ap-

188

ROCK JOI .

r
I
s
yl
r
tr
F
r
a
4
z
6
4
a
U

-

ROCKFORD.

189

preached to contend with him, but he was soon thrown
from his footing. A second and third shared the same
fate. Falkner would have been overpowered in a short
time had not some of the professors come to his assist-
ance. The baffled students fled in all directions-some
with slight bruises upon their heads and faces.
When Falkner explained the cause of the disturbance
to the professors, they were astonished at his prowess
and determination to conform to the laws of the Uni-
versity.
The next day the "invaders" were arraigned before
the Faculty for their misdemeanors and severely repri
manded. Some of them would have been expelled or
suspended, had not the good Falknir pleaded for them.
The boys pronounced Falkner a noble fellow, and
from that time he was regarded as a general favorite.


190     f,      ROOKFORD.

CHAPTER         XXII.
WE love to see modesty in a boy. It is an ennobling
virtue which should, commend itself, 'at times, even to
men. We are disposed to consider omselves free from
this fault, simply for the reason that charity sometimes
begins at home. Parents owe it to society to educate
their children properly at home. Then we should have
fewer self-constituted critics upon manners and fash-
ions ; fewer masters of ceremonies at social parties, and
fewer nonsensical debates in political meetings. Esquire
Lighthead says to his son, "do not let any of them turn
you down, my boy; hold up your head and be a man;
tell folks that your father has fifty negroes-makes one
hundred and fifty bales of cotton. Here is a dollar for
you to buy whatever you please."  That parent is in-
ducing precocity in his son, which may prepare him for
misery. Teach a boy that he is upon an equal footing
with his fellows,. and superior to none except for his
moral worth--he is then prepared to commence the
world aright. If a boy is not taught that it is wrong
to'speak improperly, to men, especially to old ones, he
will-grow up a man who will be compelled to learn po-
liteness in the costly school of experience.,
Mr. Manning had endeavored to perform his duty in
this respect; still he had failed to observe the good

3
I
#r
N
n'
x
Y
h
c
i
t
3
i
r
I

ROCKFORD.           191

effects of his precepts as applied to Corolan; but Falk-
ner readily conformed to every requirement. If his
father had not neglected the-sage counsels of Solo-
mon, Corolan might have been a better scholar and more
exemplary in his general deportment. If the Froward
boy had been moderately chastised with a slender branch
of an umbrageous beach tree, whe all persuasive argu-
ments had been exhausted, it is do htful whether Falk-
ner would have excelled him. Boys may be punished
moderately without resorting- to cruel measures ; yet, if
they cannot be conquered without it, give them the rod
freely.
"Corie, you have less modesty than any boy I have
ever seen. Your teacher has already complained to me
about your conduct. He says you are intolerably imper-
tinent, and hard to control. If you do not change your
course of conduct, I shall be reduced.to the painful ne-
cessity of reporting you to father."
"Brother Falker, I shall become angry with you if
I am to be thus lectured by you. I do not care what
the teacher says. I intend to do just as I please, .in
spite of him and, you."
"What I dislike mostly in your conduct is, that when
any of the students call upon me, you speak to them so
harshly that they are forced to withdraw-fearful of
offending me by entering into a controversy with you.
'Do not brag upon father's wealth; and hold yourselD up
so stiffly; the wispr portion of the students will. laugh
at you. Suppose we are rich, is that any reason, for
yog to boast of it ? Now, brother, once for all, I shall


os1

1IOCKF ND.

not allow you to spend so much money. You want me
tabuy a fine suit of clothes for you, because one of the
bys has told you that you need them. Before I order
ourWinter sits, I must write to father and get his ad-
vice. Only yesterday you spent one dollar. for fruits,
which you distributed among those noisy boys whom
you bring in here to annoy me."
9" Come, master monitor, if I may be allowed thus to
salute your reverence," said Corie, who had much xit;
"I am heartily tired of your sermons-or whatever you
call them. I must have another suit.of clothes, as the
last suit old rustic Threadneedle made for me do not
fit"; besides, they are not exactly in the latest style.-
I must let yowinto one of my secrets, brother, which
your sense of honor will enjoin upon yob to keep. You
remember, last Sabbath, we went to Church, rd do
you remember seeing a pretty girl, who sax in the pew
across the aisle from us? Well, she looked at me, and
I looked at her, and we both looked at each other. I
think she is smitten with-me, Falkner, and if I can
make a conquest of her, your brother Corie may not
have come to College in vain. I learn she is quite
wealthy, and have been informed that she is anxious to
see me."
"Come, my.youthful Adonis," said ,Falkner, "you
arethirteen years of age, and are making your arrange-
melts to commence assuming the splhere of manhood.
Why bless my soul! I expect you will imitate the ac-
tions of King Richard the First and his brothers, who
rebelled against their father, and tried to wrest the

ROCKFORD.g
sceptre from his hands, ere they had arrived at the age of
puberty. If you have any notions of marrying this
young lady this Winter, I hope you will not sell out
father's land and negroes without consulting him. You
may have my share in advance, if. you will only sell that
and your portion."
"You are almost too pure for this earth, brother,"
said Core; "I fear I may wake up some morning and
find that you have been translated to a better world.--
You must not take your flight until I have learned more
wise words from your lips, for I can assure you that I
shall never be able to learn anything from books. rB-
sides, I shall need your assistance in supplying myself
with a. few phrases or set speeches to be used when I go
out to see my dulcinea, as you and father would call
her. Now, Falkner, if you will just consent to lend me
your assistance, and write my love letters for me--be
sure to put in some French words-I do not know but
that I will give you the black pony and one of my lcie
.fishing-poles."
"Now, Corie, I have heard enough of your nonsense
for one night. Just close upon your love affairs, ard
apply yourself to your books. I never heard such norn
sense as sometimes falls from your lips."
"Very good, master Falkner, I will obey you this
time ; but I shall resume the discussion of the subject
on to-morrow evening at early candle-light."
Falkner possessed more control over his brother than
any other person, with the exception of his mother, and
knew exactly how to appeal to his sense of pride He
13

}

1\


194            ROCKFORD.

as exceedingly kind to him, and had never been-known
tdstrike him. If he had anything in his pQssession
which the boy wanted, he immediately resigned it to
h1S hands.. What a marked difference was there in the
deportment of 'Falkner, to Corolan, as compared with
that of some older brothers. Love begets love, it is
said, and there is nothing truer than that unkind inter-
course between brothers engenders. hatred which even
the wisdom of age and the charity of reason can never
dispel.
It seemed to be natural with Corolan to oppose every
thing that pleased his brother, so different were their
dispositions. Falkner knew the habits of Corie so well,
that he rarely opposed him except in matters of great im-
yortance. He desired to continue the rules by which
his parents had governed the refractory boy. He loved
his brother, because it was evident that the disagreea-
ble boy had but few friends, and it was entirely uncer-
t*iin how long he would retain them.
The preparatory school was situated in a shady grove
convenient to the Campus. Falkner made it an invari-
able rule to be near the Academy when the boys were
dismissed for the day, in order that he might join his
brother and induce him to take a walk. He thought by
pursuing this course Corolan might be freed from many
temptations, and finally reclaimed from the'error of his
ways. Palktier was almost a man in statue, though he
wi seakeely sixteen years of age ; yet he was very
jttvenile, and almost effeminate in appearance, and it
seem9d perfectly consistent for him to be Corolan's pro-

z'
r
4
,
S
E;
3'
,d
.;
h
'
i
d
:i
t
t
f
'
1

ROCKFORD.                1%
tector. Corolan was small for one of his age, though
compactly built; he was hardy and perfectly prepared
to encounter hardships.
"Now, Falkner, if you desire to walk for a wager,
suppose you mark off a circuit and let me choose my lo-
cation and keep time-for it is evident to my mind that
I cannot keep pace with you, and I have just consulted
my legs upon the subject, and find them unwilling to
enlist in the contest."
"I beg pardon, brother; I have been so accustomed
to walking with father that I had forgotten that your
short legs were contending with mine."
"You are perfectly excusable, my young philosopher,
but you must not offend again after the same style.: ;
What did father say about the clothes we should buy
this Winter ? I am getting extremely anxious to appear
before my dulcinea."
"Am I to be tortured thus every dayrabout your/ul,
einea?  Surely you must imagine yourself a yo hful
Don Quixotte. -.If you had the black pony  ere, I
doubt not but that you would order a suit of m 'l and .
go out upon an expedition. Father writes to me to
order a new suit of clothes for you and one for myself.
I will not purchase any for myself, but will order a sup-
ply of paints and drawing materials in lieu of the same.
We will go now to the store and make the purchases.
What color do you prefer for your suit, Corie ?"
"If Iam to choose for myself," said the delighted boy,
"I will select black cloth for the coat, blue casimere for
the pants, and buff cloth for the vest."


196

"Here is the place, now, Cone, for us to make our
purchases. Here seems to be exerything we need r so
let us walk in and see what the merchant has."
"You must let me make my own selections, then,
and allow me to do the principal part of the talking.
At times I will ask your opinion, but you must coincide
with me. I have not had a real good spell of talking
in two weeks, and I wish to exercise my voice."
"Have your own way this time," said Falkner. " I
hope you will not keep me witing until dark, nor should
you worry the merchant."
"That is fair for once in your life, brother, just give
me your paw upon that," said Corolan, as they entered
the finely furnished store.
Corolan displayed his taste, exercised his lungs and
the patience of his faithful brother, who paid the bill to
the rated merchant, whom the young Adonis had of-
fended more thah once before the purchases were made.
The goods were left at the tailor's with directions to have
the suit made up after the most approved style.

I-

ROCK OR.

197

CHAPTER        XXIII.
WHEN Corolan received his new suit of clothes, he
was so. much delighted that the room could' scarcely
contain him. He stripped himself to the skin, washed
with brown Windsor soap and arrayed himself with as
much pride as an Eastern prince. Falkner did not ap-
pear to notice him at all, for fear the boy might become
dissatisfied with the clothes and cast them aside. Corie
was really a fine looking boy, .with as much pride as
ever falls to the lot of mortals. He was one of those
strange beings who believe everything made especially
for their use, and that they are formed to receive atten,
tions without rendering services for the same.  He
walked up to the mirror, surveyed himself a few mo-
ments, cast a glance at his brother, who did not think
it prudent to look in that direction, and making the dis-
covery that Falkner was not watching him, the vain
lark commenced the task of copying the mode of ar-
ranging his hair and cravat from the style of his bro-
ther. He tried to make his hair curl like Falkner's,
but it seemed impossible for him to do so. After sev-
eral ineffectual attempts at imitation, he adopted his
own plan. He next endeavored to tie his cravat like
Falkner usually did, but made an utter failure. "I
know what I can do," murmured the boy;. "I can brush

ROCK RD.


ROCKFORD.

off as much dust as Falkner can, wash my skin as clean,
if not as white as his, and can use up as much cologne
as he can, but to save my life I cannot look half as re-
spectable as he .does. Blame the fine looking fellow!
everything comes.perfectly natural to him, yet he is as
indifferent to his charms as I am vain of my silly at-
tempts at display."
"Brother Corolan," said Falkner, "you look very
charming in your fine new dress; I suppose .you are
going out to see your dulcinea?"
"You are rather fast this evening, Falkner; I am
only trying on the clothes to see whether they fit me or
not. I am rather inclined, to think they do not suit me,
since you are so well pleased with them."
"Turn around Corie," said the boy; "I had not ob-
served them very closely; I think now that the coat is
rather loose in the back for you, and the sleeves are a
trifle too tight just' above the elbows. Your pants do
not standout as they ought to, and the vest is rather
short for you.'"
"If that is your opinion, I am perfectly satisfied to
wear them, as our ideas upon dress are as different as
the poles. This coat sets as easily upon me as my skin,
and it is the only one I ever had that suited me in the
least. Look at the collar how smoothly it lies, and the
waist fits snugly up. Nothing can be more charming
thin the pants, and as for the vest, it is a paragon of
beauty.  Oh'! I shall surely make a conquest of my
eetheart now."
"I hope yout are not going to visit her without ever

t
;
.
2
,!
c't.
.
'r,
s
.t
t
c
i
a
k
;
p
+

having formed her acquaintance, Corie; for if I ain not
egregiously mistaken, you have not yet seen her except
at church. Do wait and exercise some patience, bro-
ther, or you will force your friends to laugh at you.
The students are to give a' party very soon; it may be
possible that your intended will be present. For the
balance of the evening please take up your. books and
endeavor to learn your Latin lesson."
"You are surely relating a fable to a deaf man now,
Falkner, for I shall have no use for the dead languages,
having but little desire to converse with ghosts. Do
yon suppose Cicero, if he should rise from the dead,
could understand you and professor Graymont?    I
have never been so completely worried out in my life
as I was one night last week. The antique professor
and your ancient self clattered away at the verbs, ad-
jectives and pronouns, until I almost wished that the
spacious earth was one voluminous Latin Grammar and
you and he were the only inhabitants upon it."
"That is yery uncharitable in you, brother, since I
have been so kind as to induce father to buy that suit
of clothes for you. Do I not literally stuff your les-
sons down your throat ? You do not try to receive
them through the channels. of reason. I see plainly
that you must learn everything by imitation or frequent
repetition."
" That is sufficient, brother; you are putting 'me fast
to sleep; I feel the leaden god, as you and professor
Graymont call him, drawing his sable curtains: around
me.. Vale, Falkner, sonznus venit, et Corolan, tuus ca-
rsszmus frater dormit."

ROCKFORD.


ROOKFORD.

The wild, but brilliant lad, tired himself completely
04t before he ceased talking, and having disrobed, went
to bed to dream of his dulcinea, the black pony and the
new watch his mother had promised to send him. Falk-
nor was heartily glad to be rid of the noise, and com-
menced studying his lesson in good earnest. The clock
struck one .that night before the studious young man
sought rest in sleep.
We have- before remarked that Falkner was the fa-
vorite of the students. His room was the trysting place
for those who were at all inclined to be studious. One
boy frequently performs the task of translating the les-
sons for the entire class, and Falkner was chosen for
that purpose. If he could not read an intricate sen-
1ence, solve a mathematical proposition or elucidate an
abstruse question in rhetoric or logic, the professors
were applied to. It was rarely that the learned boy
failed to give entire satisfaction upon any point.
Time flew by rapidly and the end of the first year
4f Falkner's college life was approaching. He had
easily maintained the first position in the class, though
much of his time had been spent in amusing and in-
structing his brother. He had redeemed the promise
he :made to Corie relative to the chain. The virgin gold
links supported the beautiful watch his mother had sent
him, thanks to Falkner's liberality. His dulcinea had
not been as easily victimized as he imagined, yet he had'
some hope of obtaining her love by. another year. If
shAohiad buffed him, the secret was carefully kept by
the atute lad.

- Falkner had learned to write verse, and had been
complimented by the professors. He was pronounced
to be the brightest student that had ever entered the
University. The following letter .to his father may be
read with interest:
"UNIVERSITY OF M   -, Jgne 1st, 18--.
"Dear JFather : I am rejoiced to inform you of the
change- in brother Corolan's habits. It is said that
drops of water will eventually wear away the hardest
stones, so will a dull mind receive instruction by fre-
quent repetition. I had almost despaired of Corolan's
ever being able to master the rudiments of the Latin
language, but it is true he has made wonderful progress
during the last few months.
"Do not blame me, dear father,' if you discover that
I have allowed him more. money than you directed me
to give him. I think he is entirely too fond of dress,
yet without a stimulus of some kind he would not have
been satisfied to remain as a student with boys who are
so finely attired.
"I am truly beset with temptations, yet I strive to re-
member your counsels, trusting that I may do no wrong.
"If I win the esteem and praises of the virtuous and
good, I shall be confident that I have done my duty.
The older I become, the more I pm impressed with the
obligations I am under to respect the laws of the Su-
preme Being who, upholds and sustains us by His supe-
rior goodness.  Some of the students pretend to be
atheists, but their very assertions are confuted by the

ROOKFOR.


ROCKFORD..

arguments they use.: I fear that brother's young mind
may become imbued with their false philosophy, yet I
shall battle against those influences with all my might.
"I am not a believer in dreams; but I do have some
very strange scenes presented before me at times whilst
I sleep. You remember the singular, yet painful, dream
I had when brother was so dangerously ill ? I have had
a repetition of the same nocturnal visitation again of
late, I shall not allow it to weigh upon my mind ; but
why should I conceal it from you? I do think I shall
experience strange vicissitudes of fortune at some period
of life.
"You have often warned me against the use of ardent
spirits. A few days since, brother and I were invited
to a party given at the house of one of the Faculty.
Wine was pleztiful at the table; still I drank only one,
glassfull; I amworry to say that Corolan was not so ab-
stemious. At the risk of revealing secrets, I must re-
late .a funny little circumstance : I observed that Cor-
olan was drinking as much as any of the students, and
I went to him and remonstrated with him, but all to no
effect. One of the members of my own class who has
taken quite a fancy to brother, was acting as his chape-
ron on that occasion. He took a fresh bottle of cham-.
p% gne and opened it. He desired the boys to hold their
glasses for another draught. Brother was so completely
under the influence of what he had already drank, that
he mistook the stopple of a decanter for a wine-glass,
and held that to the boy to be filled with the intoxica.
ting beverage! I managed to get him to our room be..

ROOOD

202

20:3

fore it was discovered that he had become too merry.
He has promised me that he will not drink more than
I do at any future party, and you know that Corie will
keep a pledge sacred when it is once given.
"I will write to you again in At few days and enclose
some verses which I am now composing.
"Yours in love,
FALKNER."


ROOKFORD.

CHAPTERXXIV.

UNIVERSITY OF M.-, June 5th.
"3fy dear Father: I promised, in my last letter, to
send you some verses, which I now enclose. I trust
that you may not criticise my first effort at a long poem
too closely. I have not shown it to any person, though
often tempted to ask the advice of one of the profes-
sors.
" Corie thinks that I will be a poor man some of these
days, because I am learning to paint, and have a fancy
for poetry. He says he has peeped into the pages of
some moon-struck authors himself, when he thought no
one Was watching him, and he has learned that most of
the bardlings died poor. He is a rare boy, whose like
has never yet been seen by me.
"Request mother to make a beautiful ruffled shirt for
me by the time I get home, and I will bring her some-
thing pretty. I will not worry you with a long letter,
fearing that you may be tired out with. the 'HERMiT'S
TALE.'

"THE HERMIT'S TALE.
""Dark was the night; the wind blew shrill and loud;
The rain descended from the angry cloud ;
The mountain trembled 'neath the thunder's sound,
And Nature's echoes filled the groves around.
The stately oaks, (the forest's giants ol ,

4s

Beneath whose shades for countess years untold,
The hero, sage, or Indian warriors wild
Had planned their fights, or on their fair ones smiled,)
Dark; to the sky their stalwart branches bend,
While torrents through the leafy domes descend.
The wolf went howling to his rocky lair,
Led onward by the lightning's fiery glare;
Nor stopped he at the hermit's sainted cell-
That holy one whom all men loved so well.
Long years had passed since first the hermit came-
None knew from whence, nor had they learned his name.
But this they knew: by either night or day,.
If uck'ess Wight shouts on that mountain stray,
And wander to the hermit's sainted cell,
lie lingered long, and every word that fell
From lips which only deigned to speak in prayer,
Was hoarded up as some prized relic rare.
- Fierce raged the storm; young Tibald's fiery steed,
Scared by the lightning,-put forth all his speed;
And rushing from the road and through the dell,
Climbed the rough peak and reached the hermit's cell-
The holy father, on his knees-in prayer,
Was asking aid from Heaven; his every care
Or ill of life was cast upon his beads;
Those numbered he in fervency. His deeds
Were known to Heaven ; may his prayer be heard :
Who trusts in prayer believes God's holy word.
"Long gazed young Tibald, then, with wild delight ;
Still knelt-the hermit at his altar bright,
'Nor ceased he from his fervent Vesper prayer
Till all his beads were told. His knees were bare
From oft reclining on the flag-stone cold ;
Around his neck was hung-a cross of gold.
. A sable robe -around his form was thrown.
And wooden sandals on his feet were wok.
Three waxen candles shed their mellow light
Within the cell upon that stormy night.
The hermit!beckoned Tibald to a seat--

s
a

,Il

ROCYEFORD


206                    ROCKFOR
A rustic stool whereon his sacred feet
Had oft reclined when stretched upon his bed,
And leaden shadows 'round the cell were spread.
'Holy hermit! one night within thy cell
I pray thee let a wayworn traveler dwell;
My limbs are wet and chilled with drenching rain;
Dark is the night and trackless is the plain.
My charger, frightened at the thunder's sound,
Forsook the road and up the mountain wound.-
Then from a recess in the rocky wall
The hermit brought a chest compact and small;
A secret spring threw back the iron lid,
And garments fine wit-hin the chest lay hid.
'Long years have passed,' the holy father said,
'Since on these clothes mine aged eyes were laid;
I could a tale, young man, to you unfold-
But no; my secret to the silent grave
With me must go-ave Maria, save."
Then took he from the chest the garments rare
And robed his strange young guest with studied care.
Bright glowed the flames within the sacred cell;
The smoking meat sent forth a savory smell;
The red wine sparkled in the goblet bright,
And soon a festive board made glad the sight.
'The tire has come when from this aching breast
My secret must come forth;. my soul will rest
On earth no more until is brought to light
The hidden scenes of that eventful night.'
The hermit gazed upon his youthful guest,
WhQ,'in the old, but princely,,garments dressed;
Was seated at the well-filled, rustic board.
The rosy Wine was in the goblets poured-
The rosy {iti long in the larder stored.
"The feast was o'er; the table moved from sight;
Still raged the £torzn, and doubly dark the night ;
Then crossing thrice himself with piops care,
The holy hermit Inelt again in prayer.
His prayer was ended; then he sought his guest.

ROCKFORD.
And 'round his waist his stalwart arm was pressed.
'Oh ! let me gaze upon thy youthful face,
My prince, my boy; methinks I now can trace
My own resemblance in thy features fair ;
My long black curls were like thy raven hair
When first the regal crown with diamonds spread,
By pious hands was placed upon my head.
My royal spouse across the ocean came,
And lit the altar with love's holy flame;
When in my rms I pressed her form so fair-
Dark were her eyes and black her flowing hair-
My wide dominions dwindled into nought,
Compared to her. Could love like hers be bought ?
Swift passed the days, and sweet the rosy hours
Unheeded, flew. One eve within the bowers
Whose leafy dome would scarce admit the light
Of that bright orb, the silvery lamp of night,
We sat and listened to the nightingale
Repeating to her mates her plaintive tale
My soul was filled with love, and grief, and pride;
I knew not why, for in my royal bride
My soul was centered, yet Imy heart was sad;
Such fervent love had well nigh nade me mad.
I could have dwelt with my sweet spouse forever,
(But cruel fate from her my love did sever;)
I could have dwelt beneath that bower so bright
And wished that day were one eternal night-
One night of moonshine, with birds and bowers-
One endless night of moonshine, love and flowers.
"Bright was the morn, and sweet the pibroch's strain
That filled my high palace and filled the plain,
When chaste Lucina a lovely boy did bring,
A royal prince, to be the future king.
The pious monk that dwelt in cloistered cell
Came forth that morn the joyous crowd to swell ;
My halls were thronged with valiant knights in mail.
And lords and ladies from the quiet vale.
Grand was the feast-the wine did sparkle bright ;
Grand was the feast that ended not with night;

20T


RdOKFORD.
Three days and nights the festal board was spread,
And every hall resounded 'neath the tread
Of hooded monk, gay lord or soldier bold,
And minion, whose base love is bought with gold.
"Like some proud bird that soars to realms on high,
Scorns the base earth and seeks the distant sky,
When borne aloft on self-sustaining wings
'Far from the sight of susblunary things,
He sees beyond him worlds as bright as this-
Worlds without number-worlds'as full of bliss;
I looked upon the proud and happy throng,
Whose life seemed sweet, like minstrels' dulcet song;
I thought myself the source from which did spring
The constant pleasures of a potent king.
" Ere twelve revolving silvery orbs of night
Had waxed and waned, and shed their mellow light,
My royal spouse, inflamed with venal love,
(Unlike the pure who dwell in Heaven above,)
Forsook a-monarch's conch and festal board
For one who loved her not--i base-born lord.
One night I missed her from my royal side-
I missed my high-born, foreign, beauteous bride,
And stealingout at midnight's solemn hour,
I found her seated in the rosy bower,
And listening to the love and ,plaintive tale
More sweet toyher than song of nightingale.
I rushed upon the proud and guilty pair
And, sent them to the depths of black despair.
-" My heart grew sick, my brain grew fierce and wild-
I rushed to the palace and seized my child-
[seized thee, Estell, with these bloody hands,
Left my riph realm and fled to foreign lands.
Behold your father, Estell, yet I trust
My sins are alt forgiven ; with the just
I long to dwell in that bright world above,
Where all is peace and all celestial love.
Take this full purse and take this signet ring-

ROOKFORD.

203

Nay, start not, boy; wert thou not born a king?
Thy father once was mighty; his renown
is yet revered takek, then, the regal crown.
These are the treasures I have saved for thee ;
Then sail ye hence o'er the dark. blue sea-
Haste to thy father's throne, where willing hands
Of trusty subjects will restore thy lands.
Mine hour is come; th' insatiate monster, Death,
Is here. Soon will this fleeting, mortal breath
Have ceased. Come closer, now, 'tis cold, my child-
I see thee not-'Thus died the hermit wild.
"If you think this poem contains any merit, I have
no objection to your showing it to dominie Heflin.        In
a few days you may expect to see Corie and your
FALKNERj'

I

'


g.             ROOKFORD

CHAPTER XXV..

MR. MANNING made extensive preparations for the
reception of the boys. He intended that they should
be taken by surprise. He did what Southerners are
ever apt to do upon extra occasions-killed a pig and
barbecued it. (You need not laugh, reader, your father
did the same thing when you were expected home!)-
Mrs. Manning sacrificed a fat gobler at the altar of ma-
ternal love, and a real festal board was spread for the
boys.
The family carriage was dispatched to the town to
receive the boys at the station. The good Mr. Manning
delivered his proclamation and the servants rejoiced in
a-holiday.
"Come, Dick," said black Joe, "lets dress up in our
best bib and tucker, as aunt Phillis calls it, and go and
meet mos- Falkner and mass Corie. I tell you, mun,
if you don't put on good close, and wash dat black skin
o' yourn, mass Corrie. will get out de carriage and
.comb your head for you. You know how he combs
heads, boy. He jes takes de curry comb and 'pears like
it does him good :to hear you holler."
"Dat is'all true, nigger," said Dick, "but den as ole
master's already gin me to mos Curie, I don't care much
ef he does sorter whip me sometimes. He gi's me many

more things den mos Falkner does you. Mos Corie1
got too much sense dan hurt his nigger ; he jes makes
out like he hurts when he dont."
"Now, Dick," said Joe, "you never seed mos Falk-
ner hit one de black foax in your life. I don't know
dat he ever expects to. I jes bleeve he gwine make a
preecher. I hope mos Falkner giv me sebenpens. I
don't 'spect your moster get any, 'cause he oilers spens
his munny jes for foolishness."
Those negro boys, whom the father had gifen to his
sons, (as all farmers do, simply for the sake of letting
their children have something to claim,) chatted away
as happily as if they expected their young masters to
bring them a fortune. Fully two hours before the car-
riage was expected, Joe and Dick started off in a sweep
ing trot to meet it. When they had proceeded about
three miles at that rapid rate, they espied the carriage
moving slowly down the hill. They increased their speed
and rushed forward to meet the carriage, hallooing afI
the time, "yonder cums mos Falkner-yonder canns
mos Cone! bless God! dis nigger want to die; get uit
de way and let dis nigger run. Black Sam thirik hiin
self mity smart settin' up dar drivin' dem fine college
boys."
"Howdy, mos Falkner-howdy mos Corie; how you
boaf bin dis long time?"
After the familiar salutations had been passed, Ooro-
Ian ordered the driver to stop. He opened the door,
alighted from the carriage, and walked up to Dick to
compare hights. Having satisfied himself that black

ROCKFORD,

3
}


ROoKFORD.
Sok had outgrown him, Corolah mounted upon the
Lc of the stout negro, as he had done a thousand
timesbefore, and rode him in advance of the fast trot-
tipp horses fully a quarter of a mile before Dick could
be prevailed upon to' let his precious rider dismount.
When Corie dismounted, he made Dick perform several
qvolutions, such as turning summersaults, jumping up
agd striking his heels together three times before he
touchedthe ground.
i'Now, mos Corie, gin me one quarter dollar, plees
you    know you promused me one if I would take
good care ob de black pony, and keep de tother niggers
from trublin' de fishin'-poles when de white foax gone
to v1hch, ebry Sunday. Now, mos Corie, you nose
yu iy uioster, 'cause old monster gib me to you when
i little ii1don, long 'go as I can 'member."
ph h! you black imp," said Corolan, "I am glad I
la   something to whip you for; -I have whipped but
qe neg-o since I saw your black skin last, and that
Sthe boy that waited upon me at college. How often
hge 1 told you not to appear before me with your head
h Wcormbed."
JIere Oorolan gave Dick a few light strokes with a
switch by way of asserting his superiority, and drawing
forth a horn comb from his pocket, the mischievous boy
gave Dick's head a radical combing.
a messy, mos Corie, you pull all de har out po
ni    hed. What you gwine do for nigger when Dick
"There is io danger of killing you, you ebony imp.

4

1OOKFORD.

2tv

What good does it do me to have a negro, if I do not
whip him at least once a year? You had no business
being a negro, but since'you could not help it, take this
quarter and this handkerchief and cut out home. If
you dosnot have the black'pony curried down slick when
I get there, I will comb your head well for you."
Dick started in a run, as happy as a king. He de-
clared to Joe, who had made a draft upon the liberality
of Falkner for fifty-cents, that master Corie Was tife
best young man in 'the world. He soon forgot the head
combing, but he did not fail to obey the commands d
Corolan relative to the pony.
. When the carriage arrived at the gate of Mr. Manx-
ning, the father and mother went out and gave them a
very warm reception. The dinner was served up is
splendid style-several of the neighbors being pre
--among them the meek dominie Heflin and the po #
ous doctor Gillis.

t

d


CHAPTER XXVI.
IT is not prudent to dwell too long upon one theme.
We have given a faithful history of the lives of Falk-
ner and Corolan from their childhood up to the close of
their first year in the University and Preparatory school.
Mr. Manning was so well pleased at the manly course
and studious habits of the.good Falkner, and so much
surprised at the improvement in Corolan, that he shed
tears of joy. There was only one thing wanting to com-
plete his happiness, and that was an impossibility. If
Ialkner had been born his son he could not have loved
him more than he now did; or even if it were possible
for him to conceal from him the fact of his being a
foundling, his joy might still be complete. Mr. Man-
ning had a strange presentiment that Falkner would be
exposed to perils, though he was confident that the boy
had nerve sufficient to encounter any dangers that might
beset him. If the feelings of Mr. Manning had been
.otherwise than of the most fraternal character, the
doubtful parentage of his foster son would not have
cast a darkening shadow upon his own manly brow.
He considered Falkner, whose hight was nearly equal
to his own, as one of the noblest specimens of youth he
had ever seen. His naturally effeminate face had lost
a slight degree of its delicacy and put on the ruddy

4

ROCKFORD

r

ROCKFORD.

215

isage of early manhood.  His hair had assumed a
darker hue, yet the auburn ringlets still clustered in
many a natural curl about his well-shaped head. His
eyes, as blue as the welkin, were not the least at-
tractive feature of this. interesting youth. Mr. Man-
ning observed that Corolan had grown much, and his
face was gradually improving in appearance. Corolan
had been at home only a few days, when he expressed
a desire to return to school. It is strange, thought his
father,. that Cone, who has never been known to love
school, should have improved so much as to desire to
leave home again in a few days, after having been ab-
sent one whole year.
"How is this, Falkner; has Corolan really a love for
books ?"
"I think not, father," said the boy, " but brother is
improving rapidly; yet I scarcely-know how he learns,
unless it is from the frequent drillings I give him nightly
upon his lessons, very much against his own inclina-
tion."
"You are a good tutor, my son; I had almost ar-
rived at the conclusion that Corolan would ever remain
totally ignorant of the contents of books."
"I hope, father, that you will permit him to return
to the University with me. He may improve wonder-
fully during next year. If he remains at home he will
as surely spend all his time in riding, hunting and fish-
ing as the means, are placed in his power."
"You shall be gratified, my boy, and Corie shall be
placed entirely under your control. But, to change the


subject, why did you not relate how the hermit disposed
of Estell when he left the palace so precipitately after
the murder of the queen and her paramour ?"
'"I thought I would merely give the story a slight
touch of romance, leaving your imagination to supply
any defect in the narrative. I did not even give the
name of the king nor denominate the country he ruled.
The king's name was Bohomathalzal, quite an unpoetic
appellation, as you will observe, and it was so difficult
for me to insert it in the verse. I was fearful that Bo-
homathaizal might be a hard name to rhyme to, and I
thought I would serve it like you do the gar fish when
we are seining-throw it out. The name of his king-
dom is Utopia.'
"You surely mean Ethiopia, Falkner, as there is no
such a country upon the map as Utopia. Probably you
have been reading the Arabian Nights and have gath-
ered some of your ideas from some of the strange fa-
bles you find recorded there."
"You talk as if you had not read the book to me and
Corie when we were children. Do you remember how
we used to laugh and clap our hands when you read one
that was uncommonly interesting? lbut the 'Hermit's
Tale' is strictly original with me, and was written merely
to gratify a whim, at odd times. King Bohomathalzal.
recei-ved the crown from his father Anakthalzer, and
was supposed to have been the most wealthy prince that
ever reigned in Utopia. He gave'his father's fine pal-
aci.to one of his subjects and built another, which was
the wonder of the world. Kings and princes came from

216

ROORFORD

ROCKFORD.

217

distant countries to see the magnificent pile and to taste
the rich dainties of his magnificently spread board.
One of the kings of the East was so much delighted
with Bohomathalzal that he gave him his daughter in
marriage, whose dowry was forty millions of piastres.
Bohomathalzal was so enamored with his queen that he
expended thousands of dollars upon her wardrobe daily.
IIer beauty and rare accomplishments were so attractive
that the premier of the' king, who possesed as many
graces of person and mind as the renowned Leicester,
won her love and despoiled her of her virtue. The king
loved her too dearly to accuse her, from silly reports
and suspicions, but he could not withhold his hands
from shedding blood when he saw his wife, at the dead
hour of night, in social converse with his premier. He
shot both of. them dead and hastened to the palace, took
a large quantity of gold and.valuables, not neglecting
the 'golden crown, and going to the bed of the royal
babe, he took it up softly and carried it away with him.
He was accompanied by a trusty servant, upon whom
he enjoined secrecy. They traveled as private citizens,
and took up their residence in a strange country. The
self-exiled king bought a few roods of land and lived
secluded with his servant and babe about two .years.
The servant was a white man, of rare intelligence, who
had been a faithful attendant of the king's father. Bo-
homathalzal exacted a pledge from his faithful Adoni-
ram, that he would never reveal his secret, but raise and
educate Estell as his own son. He gave Adoniram a
large quantity of gold, and taking his crown and jew-


els, and a few clothes, he went to another strange coun-
try and dwelt in the cell in which Estell found him."
"That is a very strange little romance of itself," said
his father; I" but you have not related any of the par-
ticulars of Estell's life."
"Estell," resumed Falkner, "was a very wild and
venturesome boy. When Adoniram was not instructing
him in the languages, the royal boy would stray from
the cottage and engage in the sports of the chase. Upon.
several occasions he was wounded by the wild boars and
panthers which he killed. He was not contented to
dwell in that secluded spot, and tried to obtain the con-
sent of Adoniram for him to join the army ; but the
good old man, who was noted for integrity, implored his
boy to remain with him. Estell was hunting one day
in the forest, when he encountered a sybil, who exam-
ined his palm and told him that he was the son of a
king, and would see his father within a few years. He
predicted that he would be a prosperous and happy mon-
arch, but as the lines in his hands crossed so strangely,
he would encounter many difficulties before he obtained
the kingdom of his fathers.
"Estell related the sayings of the sybil to Adoniram
when he returned home. The old man said to him that
he had but little to do to listen to the tale of a wander-
ing witch. But the boy, who had almost arrived at the
age of manhood, allowed the prophecies of the sybil to
prey upon his mind. He longed to be a great man.
He had not the modesty of Moses, who refused to be
called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, even though a
crown should be placed upon his head.

2 $            ROCKFORD.

fi

ROCKFORD.- -219

"He could not, he would not remain in solitude. He
threatened to throw himself from a precipice if Adoni-
ram should not consent for him to go to the wars. The
old man consented, and placing a fine steed at his dis-
posal, invoked the blessings of the Virgin upon the head
of the erring boy. Estell rode from the cottage as
happy as a belted knight, not doubting the prophecies
of the sybil. He lifted his mace and battle-ax and
slew many imaginary foes ere he had ridden a furlong
from the cottage of the weeping Adoniram. The fiery
youth had all the beauty of Adonis and the valor of
Achilles. He was received in the army, was among the
foremost when a charge was to be made, was knighted,
honored and rewarded by the prince whom he served.
"I have not yet seen my father," said Estell; "yet
I have encountered many difficulties. Surely the words
of the sybil are true.
"He was acting in the capacity of a spy upon the
night he so strangely encountered his father in the per-
son of the hermit."        C
"You have not told me, Falkner, whether Estell ever
gained his kingdom."
"You must be interested, father, in my tale ; you
will not even give me time to breathe, before you hurry
me on with the recitation. When Bohomathalzal died,
Estell discovered among his relicts several letters which
the hermit had written, directed to Adoniram, giving
shim directions as,ti'his future course. Estell could not
doubt but that the hermit was his father. The crown
and royal robes were found in the cell. He had his


ROCKFORD-              221

father's remains transported to Utopia and interred in
the royal cemetery."
"You are rather fast with your narrative, my son;
you have not told me anything about the difficulties that
Estell encountered in obtaining his kingdom."
As to that, father, it is a long story; but if you
will give me your attention after tea, I will relate all
the particulars."

CHAPTER        XXVII.
"Now, Falkner," said his father, when they had
risen from the supper-table, "you'must tell me how
Estell obtained his kingdom."
"You may doubt the truth of some of my assertions,
my dear father, but they are as true as some of the ad-
ventures which we read of in the Arabian Nights. The
unhappy Estell had as many difficulties and dangers to
encounter as Eneas of old experienced ere he arrived
at the place of his destination. Often the shades 'of
his father appeared to him in his dreams and implored
him to bury his body in that strange land and hasten
on to his beloved Utopia; but the good boy had taken
upon himself a vow to suffer death before he would yield
up the corpse of the deceased king. He was wrecked
upon an island, where he remained with a few friends
for two years. One day while they were out searching
for drift wood, and eggs which were deposited upon the
island by the sea-birds, they espied a vessel. With joy
they discovered that the ship was making for the island.
They were horror stricken when, they, discovered that
the vessel carried a black flag at the mast head. The
pirates landed anS took possession of the persons and
property of the unfortunate sojourners. Happy it was
for them that they were able bodied men, or they night

220            ROCIfFORD.


ROOKFORID.

have been slain. They were marched aboard of the
vessel and carried to a distant port and sold into slave-
ry. It was.fortunate for, Estell that he had concealed
his treasures in a cave upon the island. He had buried
the coffer that contained the remains of his father.
"The master of Estell was a good, man, and treated
him with much kindness. He was employed .as an
amanuensis and interpreter, (thanks to the instructions
he had received from the learned Adoniram.) The
merchant died after many years, bequeathing his whole
estate to Estell, who had married his only daughter.-
Estell purchased a ship, sailed to the island, and placing
his treasures aboard, steered for Utopia, many hundred
miles away to the South. He had not revealed to any
person on board that he was the son of the late Boho-
mathaizal, trusting to Fate to solve the great enigma
of his strange life. When the vessel of Estell had pro-
eeeded a few hundred miles upon the expedition, the
ship of a pirate hove in sight. Estell gave the pirati-
eal ship a few broadsides,, and fastening the grappling
irons to its sides, boarded it, followed by the trusty
crew. All the pirates except the captain were slain-
he being taken alive. What was the joy of Estell at re-
cognizing in him the pirate who had sold him into slavery.
He was immediately run up to the yard-arm amid the
shouts of the exultant crew. Groans were heard issu-
ing from the cabin of the pirate's vessel. Estell went
immediately to relieve the unfortunate persons. Adon-
iram, the aged foster-father of the boy, was among the
number. He was released; and fainted in the arms of

922-

0

ROCKFORD.

Estell, whom he recognized. He had traversed half of
the globe searching for the adventurous boy. The ves-
sel of the pirates was made fast to the ship of Estell,
and, buoyant with hope, the modern iEneas steered
again for Utopia.
"Whenthe prosperous winds wafted them into the port
of the principal city of his kingdom, Estell was sur-
prised at the magnificence of the buildings. He was
greeted as a stranger whose prowess had subdued the
wizzard of the seas. He had the difficulties of Ulysses
to encounter ere he obtained his kingdom.
"He learned that a foreign prince ruled in the place
of his father, and had brought over as many followers
of his own as William of Normandy conveyed to Eng-
land. He had distributed the principal offices. among
them--thus Utopia was held in complete subjection.-
He presented'himself before the people and claimed to
bd the lost prince. Adoniram, who was present, was
recognized by his old associates, and the story of Estell
was believed by many; yet, others, among. them the
king, believed it to be a fabrication. The king issued
a warrant for the arrest of Estell, but he collected many
soldiers who were not well disposed to the usurper, and
resisted the authority of the pseudo king. The armies
fought long and desperately, and victory perched upon
the standard of Estell. The aged Adoniram brought
forth the crown which had been piously kept by Estell,
and placed it upop the head of his foster son. The
joy of Adoniram was so great when the king marched
into the palace, that he expired."

223


224

ROOKFORD.

When Falkner had finished the narrative, his father
was satisfied that the boy had more imagination than he
had given him credit for.: He cautioned the boy from
indulging too freely in novel reading, but recommended
a few standard works for his perusal.
Within a few weeks Falkner and Corie bade farewell,
to the parents and departed for the University, very,
much to the gratification of the latter, who was dying
to see his dulcinea.

I

ROCKFORD.

225

CHAPTER        XXV III.
[FROM THE JOURNAL OF FALKNER MANNING.]
"TEN years have passed since I entered thelUniversity
of M . Ten years have passed swiftly away, yet
they have been mingled with sunshine and shadow, love
and grief, hope and despair. I try to be calm as I
write, yet my mind is so troubled at the recollection of
the past, I shudder to record my thoughts upon this
stainless sheet. I would long to die, but it is sinful in
me to wish to hurry myself into the presence of my
Maker. I have learned ALL that Mr. Manning knows
about my abduction, yet not enough to establish my pa-
rentage. How I long to see him whom I so dearly
love ! him whom I supposed was my father! And Cor-
olan! these eyes may never again behold him, but I
shall pray for him till life's last sun shall set.
"But let me be more explicit, and chronicle some of
the principle events of my life. Perhaps these pages
may be exhibited to the world when I shall have ceased
to exist; perhaps my mind may be calmed by becoming
familiar again with events which have nearly escaped
my memory. If w,e 'do not delight to do so, we are
forced to dwell upon occurrences of an unhappy na£
ture.
1

I


ROOKFORD.

"How happy was I when Ijoined the Sophomore class
ohe  niversityof M  -!   Corolan was my con-
$tant companion, and from my kindness to him, he had
learned to love and respect me. His mind reacted un-
der my tutelage, and his reason, which was not obtuse
except upon abstruse and scientific subjects, was sud-
denly loosened from the leaden fetters which bound it.
He became as famous for his excellence in learning as
he had formerly been noted for his inattention to oks.
Fathie-yes, I must call him father still-was not p-
pier on account of this sudden change in the mind of
Corolan than I was. He could scarcely believe his eyes
when he opened and read the first letter Corolan had
ever written. When father was assured by me that the
letter had been composed by Corolan, without my assis-
tance, he wrote me a long, loving epistle, entreating me
to continue my laudable course of instruction. I was
directed by him to allow Corolan as much money as.
he wanted, not-doubting but that the boy had become
as economical as myself. I did not reveal this to Corie,'
fearful that he might take advantage of it and relax
again into indolent habits. I gave him whatever I
thought he needed, not refusing anything within the
bounds of reason that he desired.. His love for me in-
creased, and I joyfully perceived that he would be able
to enter the University by another year. How quickly
that time rolled around and found us again at the Uni-
versity! As I had expected, Corolan applied for, and,
obtained an entry into the Freshman class. I rose Ju-
nior, having maintained the first position in the two

26

lower classes. Father was so overjoyed at the success
of Corie, that he insisted upon paying us a visit. He
went to the College and spent one week with us. That
week was one of the happiest of my life. I had a bed
prepared for him in 'my room. One night during his
visit, I waked up and saw father bending over me, weep-
ing bitterly. He bedewed my cheeks with his tears.
I asked him why he grieved; he could give me no an-
swer, but, bending over me, kissed me more than once
and retired to his bed. I could not divine the cause of
his grief, thinking that he was sad on account of being
about to leave his children so soon. I can now divine
the cause, oh! father, but then I thought I was your
own son.
"Father left us, having made us many fine presents,
and enjoining upon us to write to him every week. He
embraced Corolan more tenderly than he had ever done
before, but when he came to take leave of me, his frame
shook; he pressed me to his bosom, he kissed me, and
tears, which he could not restrain, flowed from his eyes
like rain-drops. How I remember his looks on that
morning! His finely-formed, handsome face looked sad
and sorrowful. I had never discovered before that his
hair had commenced turning gray. His mild and beauti-
ful eye seemed a little sunken. I supposed that he was
unwell. No, it. was sorrow; it was the visible trace of
grief; it was dejection, on my countt alone. He knew
my nature so well that he feared to tell me I was a.
fou"'dling. Bless his good heart! his letters are read
by me with cai'e and tenderness. If I should ever dis-

227

ROCKFORD.,


228                ROCKFORD.
cover my father, I know I shall not, can not, love him
with half the ardor that I did (and do yet) Mr. Man-
ning. But I digress.
"Corolan maintained a fair standing in his class, as
some supposed, from my superior tuition; but it was not
from that -cause. His mind, naturally active, was as
capable of grasping a subject as mine, and he devoted
his whole time to his studies. He had an excellent
constitution, thanks to the superior training he received
from father in our field sports. He was capable of per-
forming heavier tasks than I could.. I remember that
he had set up several nights, on one occasion, in suc-
cession-during the whole of which time he never ceas-
ed from study. His pride was fully aroused, and he
stood at-the head of the class at the Alose of the Fresh-
man year.
"He was successful in obtaining the love of his dul-
cinea, who promised to become his bride when he obtain-
ed his diploma. She was indeed a prize. Her beauty
was of that soft, dove-like kind that renders the Italian
ladies so charming. I have never seen but- one lady
who was her superior in point of beauty and accom-
plishments, and that was-yes I must name her-that
was my own flame, Elfrida Mordaunt.
"When the diplomas were distributed to the gradu-
ating -hss at the end of my fourth year in college, and
it was announced that I had obtained the first honor,
there was' general applause. As I went *upon the ros-
trum to receive my diploma, I observed that father, who
was seated with the trustees, was weeping for joy. I

m

ROCKFORD.

229

received my diploma from the distinguished Mr. Rock-
ford, who was appointed by the authorities to deliver the
diplomas and the prizes. He is the same man who
traveled with Corolan and me when we first went to the
University. He was then in quest of a lost son. I
remember every word he said as distinctly as if it were
yesterday. He is the finest looking old man I have
ever seen. When he delivered to me the diploma and
the prize, I thought his voice and manner of speaking
were unequaled. 'He pressed me warmly by the hand,
and -congratulated my father for havin so talented a
son. I long to see him again; but how could I meet
him, now that he is the Governor of the State and I a
poor artist ? He is the guardian of Elfrida, whose love
I sought and obtained when I was in the senior class.
She was placed at the Female College of M   -by
him, where she graduated with honor.
"I returned home with father and Corolan, who was
as loth to part with his affianced as I was sorry to see
Elfrida depart with her father for Crofton.. I promised
Elfrida, before, I left, that I would come to Crofton when
one year had passed. I had not sought to obtain Mr.
Rockford's consent to our marriage, preferring to wait
until we had tested our affections for each other thor-
oughly.
My father was dulyinformed of my intentions-for
I had never kept an important secret from him in my
life. He interposed -no objections to mygoing to Crof-
ton. Brother Corolan had gone back to College, leav-
ing father and me to enjoy our sports alone. We spent

14


ROCKFORD.            231

230            ROOKFORD.

the mornings in shooting ducks and partridges, and the
evenings in reading from select books. I amused /my-
self at times in drawing and painting. I had learned
the art well.. I painted the portraits of father, mother
and Corolan, which were admired by all who saw the
pictures.
"A few days before the time arrived for me to take
my departure for Crofton to see my Elfrida, father-
who had been long in conversation with mother-ap-
proached me, weeping, with a letter in his hand. He
extended it to me and sorrowfully bade .me read it. I
did so and fainted in the arms of the good man. When
I revived, mother was weeping bitterly and bathing my,
forehead with cologne.

CHAPTER XXIX.
[FROM FALKNER "MANNING'S JOURNAL.]
"My mother was standing over me, bathing my tem-
ples and administering what remedies were at hand.-
When I opened my eyes, my memory revived, and I
was the most wretched' of mortals. A foundling---
' Umbra nominis stat '-all hope fled; all the dreams of
youth vanished. Elfrida lost to me forever! Would
she who had engaged herself to the son of one of the
magnates of the land remain faithful to her pledge when
she discovered that I was a foundling?  jas it right
for me to deceive her, even though my, reputed father
should permit me to retain the name I had not disgrac-
ed, and endow me with half his fortune? I could not,
I would not deceive the pure being who might be made
miserable. I may be the son of a low-born man, but
the fine dress and the gold chain that were found upon
my person gave a contradiction to that assertion. The
letter that was enclosed in my wrapper gave no clue to
my parentage. For the benefit of those who desire to
earn something of the history of the unhappy man who
writes these page*, the letter to which I refer may be
read with interest:


202             ROCKFORD.

"JUNE 4th, 18-.
"THEODORE MANNING, Esq.: You do not know me-
yet I knowyou from reputation. When you discover
the beautiful boy asleep at your door, receive him as a
gift from Heaven. You may learn something of his
history in the future-but not now. That he is one of
the most beautiful boys you ever beheld, there can not
be a doubt. You have just lost one about his age, and
it may not be improper for you to adopt him, You
are soon to' remove to another portion of the State, and
it will not be incoRvenient for you to adopt the boy as
your owrn son. If you make any publication of the
discovery of a foundling until the injunction of secrecy
is renroved from.you, the boy will be slain,,or yourself
will be tlie sufferer in person. You may learn every
thing relative to the child at some future day-but you
must observe secrecy.       With respect,
"O. R."
!Thus had my reputed father been held in suspense.
Thus had my fates been balanced, as it were, upon a
hair. I had been beset with dangers, yet my dear father
and mother had carefully preserved my secret. The
servants, who loved me dearly, had obeyed the commands'
of my father, who, removing to the place where I was
raised, within a very few days'after I had been found,
easily persuaded the curious that I was his'eldest child.
I was but three years of age when I was stolen from
my parents, and know nothing of my earlier history.
The fil-st thing I remember, was my stapiding 'by my

mother's lap playing with' brother Corolan, who was
then an interesting child of two years of age. I was
then about five years old. Corolan was a warrior from
his birth. He commenced fighting .me before he could
pronounce my name. I have scratches upon my' face,
the marks of which will never be effaced until this flesh
shall return to its originalelements. It seemed natural
for him to fight everything that moved. He is a stranger
to fear, when his passions are excited. I never return-
ed one of his blows, because father and mother taught
me to love him and them.
"My-father was so kind to me that I was unhappy
when he went from home and remained beyond his usual
time. Mother loved me dearly, but I could discern,
without complaining, that she doated upon Corolan. I
murmured not; no discontent was ever heard to come
from me. She performed herdupy, and I love her dearly,
and shall honor her until the grave closes over her.
Father loved me more than he did Corolan, because I
almost worshipped him. Who could have helped loving
so gooa a man as Theodore Manning! He was a model
man, who concentrated all the happiness of this life
around his own fireside. All the unhappiness that I
feel is from the fact that I am not his son."
"When I recovered, father took me out to ride in the
carriage. He used every means in his power to pacify
me and make me, content to live with .him and be his
son. He offered me an equal share with Corolan in his
immense estate, but I could not accept it. I had learn-

ROCKFORD.           233
1


ed that my -father was living, yet I did not know what
position in society he occupied. If he was a boot-black
and possessed honor and integrity, I would rush into his
arms. But the dread uncertainty of suspense, ah! that
is the most galling of all hardships.
"I refused to remain with the man whom I loved so-
tenderly. I refused to share his fortune with Corolan.
That generous boy, who had learned to love me, would
have surrendered the half of his own claim rather than
see me depart. But the boy was absent, and I should
see him no more. Blessed Corolan! may thy life be
not beset with the same misfortunes that have rendered
your brother Falkner so unhappy!
"Mother implored me to remain and share the love
she bore her own Corie. Father wept, and entreated
me not to leave him. But how could I remain near one
I loved so well, knowing that our relations had changed!
No, I could not stay;' I had no name, and I must win
one.- I knew I possessed some talent. I had borne off,
all the prizes and the first honor from forty boys who
were contending for it with all their might. I could
draw and paint, and, that failing, I might be an instruc-
tor of youth. The world owe me a name and a living,
thought I to myself, and I WILL carve out my own for-
tune.
"Father made me promise to receive immediate as-
sistance from him. I consented, but with a mental re-
servation.
Before I proceed farther with my narrative, I will
place'the letter of Rodman before the reader:

234

ROCKFORD-.

t

284x-OFRD  ROCKFORD-

285

"MANNING HALL, July 1st, 18--.
"THEODORE MANNING, Es.-
"Respected Sir: The object of my writing this letter
is to give you some information respecting the interest-
ing boy you claim as your soh. You have been kind
to me, and Falkner has been to me as a ministering an-
gel during my illness. He is not my son, but I hold
the secret of his birth in my breast. .I have an end to
subserve, and his own father must learn the secret of
his/ retreat from me alone. You love the boy, and it is
well, or I could take him from you at any moment. He
adores you, and I am contented for him to remain in
ignorance of his birth until he has graduated. You
may then tell him that he is a foundling, but if C-
R can make it to his own interest, Falkner may be
restored to his'father. You need not endeavor to fer-
ret out the father of Falkner. He can never discover
his father except through me. If there is any adver-
tisement inserted in the papers, Falkner may disappear.
"When the time, to which I have limited you, has ex-
pired, I shall be near Falkner; but until I can make it
to my advantage, the secret shall remain within my
breast.
"For the present I shall be known as
"C. RODMAN."


I

286            ROCKFORD.

t

CHAPTER -XXX.

[FALKNER MANNING'S JOURNAL CONTINUED.]
"I PROMISED to receive assistance from my father with
the conditions that he would receive back the amount
he might advance me when I should desire to return it.
I was not long in making up my mind as to my future
course. I resolved to go to Italy and take a thorough
course of instruction under the chief masters of the art
of painting, in the principal galleries of the most noted
cities of that beautiful region. I thought, by adopting
this course, my mind might be freed from the great bur-
den of grief that was consuming my vitals. I had al-
lowed my mind to dwell at great length upon Italy. I
had read the works of Plutarch, Petrarch and Dante,
and I desired to behold the everlasting city whose fame
will exist, through all time to come. Rome! Rome!
what a world is spoken in that short word'! Two thou-
sand years ago it was the Capital of the World. Cosar
dwelt there in all his imperial pride; Cicero harangued
the multitudes; the Scipios were renowned for their
deeds of valor, and the Antonines gilded the imperial
cities with their golden laws. I would-see the ruins of
the Colliseum; J would see the tombs of the Scipios,
and stand" upon the seven hills of the greatest city of
ancient times.

I

ROCKFORD.            23'

"Yes, I resolved to visit Italy, the birth-place of the
fine arts; the nurse of genius, if not the cradle of lib-
erty."
"My preparations were soon made, and I bade adieu
to my beloved foster parents. My father placed in my
possession a check for one thousand dollars, upon one
of the principal banking houses in the city of New
York. He accompanied me to the nearest station, and
I pressed his hand, returned his warm embrace and left
him. I was strongly induced to go .by the University
of M      and see Corolan; but how could I meet him!
how could I part with him! My father must make the
disclosure to him; I could not, I would not. His pres-
ence might baulk me in my purpose; I could notsee him.
He never would have permitted me to leave him.
"II arrived at the great city of New York-a world
in miniature, of its.elf. There Iwere so many attrac-
tions in that city for one like myself, who had never
traveled, that I was forced, against my will, to remain
several weeks.
"When I embarked upon one of the principal vessels
that made regular trips to Europe, I bade farewell, as
I supposed, to my'native land forever. I was in search
of what I never expected to find-peace of mind. I
was in search of a name-where should I find it? That
was the main question.
"Ileft New York, the great Emporium of the Western
World, to sail across the Atlantic. I cared not whether
its waves should ever waft me back again; sill, At was

I


ROCKFORD

not my intention to hasten my death. -I longed to
hide myself in arid deserts. I longed to become famil-
lar with wild scenes. But we cannot always shape out
our own course; we cannot ever direct our own bark.
The winds of prosperity or adversity may mock our ef-
forts or may be propitious.
"I visited London, that great babel of the world.   I
stood upon Tower Hill and wept over the fates of Ral-
eigh, Wallace and More! Every place of note in that
great city was seen by me--some with indifference,
others with interest.
I "  dwelt not long in the gay French Capital, but left
the minarets and towers of Paris with but few pangs of
regret.
"It was at Rome that I lingered; it was in the gal-
leries of art that I tarried.. My brush and -pencil were
put in requisition for weeks and months in copying the
great models of the distinguished masters.'
"Venice, sweet, smiling city of the sea, why was it
not fated for me to dwell within thy neglected palaces
forever!T.
"ITALIA.
"The rustic ruse was Virgil's pride,
As on the shady ground he lay,
With kids and lambkins by his side,
To hear the rural shepherds play.
"Beneath the beech-tree's spreading shade
The herdsmen gathered in'a band;
Dammetas with Menalcas played-
The sweetest bards in all the land.

2388

(2

239

ROCKFORD-
-And when the oat-pipe's strain was heard,
The rustic maid with nimble feet
Prolonged the dance; the old ones cheered,
And time passed by on wings so fleet.
"The board was spread with apples red,
And chestnuts from the valleys gay,
And berries from the grassy bed,
That ripen in the mohth of May.
"And then for drink, the rippling stream
Supplied them from its crystal tide;
The milk was crowned with golden cream,
The shepherd's first and fondest pride.
"Beneath the beech-tree's spreading shade,
Those feasts no more the shepherd greet;
No more the swains in each loved glade,
On rustic pipe those strains repeat.
"No more the shepherd maid with sighs
Repeats her love to gurgling rills;
No more Italia's lovely skies
Smile on her peerless vine-clad hills.
"No more the bard, in magic numbers,
Sends greetings to his friends in Rome ;
Freedom lies in death's cold slombers-
The rustic bard hath now no home.
"The Vandals from the frozen North,
With cohorts gathered far and wide,
With war's dread tramp did issue forth,
And pitched their tents near Tiber's tide.
"Long waged the war, the struggle great i
Italia's best blood flowed in streams;
The4pillaged fanes and templed state
Live 6nly now in poet's-dreams.
"Land of the sun, Italia grand,
Where sleeps the pride of other days?


240

ROCKFORD.
Fair Venice smiles, but not with life;
The gondolier's sweet song is still;
The harp is hushed; the druin and fife
Are heard from every vale and hill.

241
4p

ROCKFORD.
Where slumber now that mighty band ?
Where dwell thy bards of tuneful lays ?
Perhaps some youthful Cicero,
With magic words upon his tongue,
May yet spring forth as once before
When danger o'er his country hung.
"Italia! once so brave, so grand,
Awake! throw off the galling chains
Drive despots from thy sacred land,
Which once rejoiced in Virgil's strains
" Land of the mighty Caesar's pride!
How dear to me in youthful days!
How fond I loved thee! yet I sighed-
A despot ruled thy hills and brakes.
Where are all thy shining treasures
Brought from the conquered nations far ?
Where are all thy haunted pleasures
That made thee an imperial star'?
As sunset gilds the western sky,
And spreads its halo o'er the world,
And sets that orb and bids good-bye,
While darkness is around unfurled:
"Thus leaden shadows o'er that land
Lie thickly dark, and broke the lute,
And, leveled low with torch and brand,
Italia sleeps-her bards are mute.
The Tiber, flushed with golden hue,
Still pours its noble stream along;
No laden vessels rise to view
That echo with the victor's song.
"No troplhies from the golden East
Are wafted-o'er the'ocean blue;
No costly wines to cheer the feast
Give welcome to the honest crew.

aDead is Italia's ancient fame;
Her noble deeds live but in song;
Extinguished is the brilliant flame
That lighted up her fanes so long.
Land of the brave! awake once more!
Awake thy sons to deeds of fame!
Their blood-red falchions steeped in gore
Can but restore thy ancient name.
"One thousand years have 'passed away,
And downward still thy course has been;
Five hundred more, and yet decay
Will on thy ancient realms be seen.
Thy mighty sons that made thee great
Are not revered by thy cold race;
Their deeds were valiani. yet their fate
Was smothered by oblivion's trace.
"Land of the sun, farewell! but yet,
When future heroes rise to sight,
Thy star, though not forever set,
Will shine in realms of ether bright.
"I tarried in Italy two long, sweet years, and left
it with regret; I knew      not why.     I knew    not why I
wept at parting with any place; a prison were as ac-
ceptable to me as a palace.
16

1


24g

I ROOKFORD-

CHAPTER XXXI.
[FROM FALKNER MANNING' S JOURNAL.]
"I sAID that it was with regret that I left Italy,
where I spent so many happy hours in visiting the gal-
leries of art. It is true, that the beautiful land of the
sun possessed many charms for me; yet, I felt as if I
were in seatch of something I could not find.' I had
rowed with the gondoliers of Venice, and listened to
their sweet songs and romantic stories; had stood in
the decayed palaces of the mighty Cosars; had wan-
dered by the banks of the Yellow Tiber; yet I could
not, I did not, realize the dreams of my boyhood rela-
tive to that sainted land.I
"Where does the enthusiasm of youth spring fiom?
Italy. Where does the neophyte in the arts and sci-
ences, poetry, eloquence and philosophy obtain his mod-
els? From the land that Brutus tried to redeem from
servitude. Shall it be ever thus that the birth-place of
literature is to remain in obscurity and ignorance?  The
very citizens of that once happy country have forgot-
ten their ancient language. The most learned of them
know not the many valiant deeds that their ancient an-
cestors enacted. The orchards and vineyards which
once enriched the owners of the soil, have gone to pre-

a

I

ROCKFORD-

24$

mature decay.1 The instructions of the swan of Mantua
have been forgotten and neglected. Cimmerian dark-
ness broods over thekland-despotism exerts its potent
sway. Italy may never awae from her lethargy, but
let us wait and hope.
I stood upon the Alps, and head the thunder roar-
ingb'and saw the lightning flashing beneath my feet. I
gathered the vernal flowers at the base of those famous
elevations, and saw the snows and experienced the chil-
ling blasts of a polar region upon their summit. The
armies of Napoleon had passed those gorges; the feet
of Byron, Shelley, Keats-4and Goldsmith had pressed
those glaciers, and should I dare to tread where mortal
had ever ventured? No; fear has never been to this
bosom known, though I have ever been esteemed as a
quiet and unobtrusive man. I climbed the sumqiits of
the Alps, where the Swiss cottager, accustomed ever to
brave danger, durst not venture. I communed with the
spirits'of those whom I imagined had ventured upon
the most dangerous places. If wizzards, witches or
hobgoblins existed otherwise than in the fancy of nerv-
ous mortals, it would have been a source of pleasure for
me to have welcomed the apparition. While standing
upon one of the highest pinnacles in the world,,why did
I long to cast myself down? It surely arose not from
a desire to imitate the actions of a Curtius or Manfred,
but all men have a strange desire to jump from high
places.. I would, particularly advise the nervous man
not to venture upon. high mountains; their desires may
overcome their judgment.


44

ROCKFORD

"Did I desire to dwell upon that summit forever? Did
Lvish to exclude myself from the balance of my race,
and end my days in those'fiozen and frightful solitudes ?
I know not, I care not. My feelings were not as they
were when I read of those %rial regions. I crossed the
beautifullowland regions of la belle France, and my heart
leaped afresh at the goodly sights I saw-a prosperous,
happy people to all appearances. If their burdens
seemed to sit lightly upon their necks. They sang to
their tuneful harps, danced with light and merry hearts,
trod the wine-presses, drank the health of their despotic
rulers-yet they claim to be happy!
"I had learned to speak the French language with
fluency at the University, but I could scarcely make
izyself intelligible to the Vendeeans. It is true, they
were polite, clever and courteous; yet it is evident
that they are only children of nature. France has
changed her policy of Government so often, that it is
impossible for the lower classes to keep pace with the'
strides of conquerers and rulers. It is certain that the
t~tiets of the first Napoleon obtained a greater sway
over that fickle people than the fixed laws of any king
siice th good times of Louis Quatorze.
"I passed into Spain. I wandered by the banks of
the famous Guadelquiver. I listened for the sounds of
k tMagie JEolian harp to strike upon, mine ear-but I
heard it not. The nymphs of poesy have even deserted
those vine-clad groves. The Spanish maid hath truly
hung her harp upon the willows, and its strings are all

ROCKFORD-                 245
broken, and dead the sound. Yet, lovely Spain, the
memories of the past will ever cluster around thee, and
render thee, as ever, an interesting nation. That beau-
tiful land of the sun rejoices in more natural advantages
than its sister States-still the populace are an ignor-
rant, degraded, besotted race. But the grandees of
Spain retain the pristine ,virtues "of their ancient corn-
peers. Some of them have yet the valor of the ancient
Gauls-some of them could yet contend with another
Wellington."
"Upon the deep waters of the dark blue sea againtI
embarked. As the noble ship cut the proud waves of
the briny deep, I looked out upon that wild waste
of waters and thought my life as cheerless as the pros-
pect before me. The captain was a man who had passed
the prime of life. He was tall and handsome, and withal
very intelligent. He had been upon the sea nearly forty
years. - He might have been sixty years of age, still
he might have passed for a man of middle age had not
his head assumed a hoary garb. Captain Walsingharm
is a man whom to know is to love. His manners are
mild, unassuming, and yet of the most fascinating char-
acter. He took a peculiar fancy to me before I-had
been aboard, of the vessel one day. He said I had a
striking resemblance to a charming little boy who was
the child of Governor Rockford. He related the cir-
cumstance of hishaving given the boy a Newfoundland
dog a great many years before,' when the father and
mother were upon a visit to his ship. It is very singu-


246                ROCKFORD.
lar that I should be so interested in the fate of that boy,
whom I, of course have never seen. I listened atten-
tively to Captain Walsingham's narrative, and I could
scarcely refrain from weeping when he had finished. I
do wish I could see that lovely boy. I think they call
him Sebastian. I wonder if he is as unhappy as I am?
No, no, he cannot be; it is utterly impossible; no mor-
tal knows how I suffer.. But to return to Captain Wal-
singham. He seemed to love me. He praised my su-
perior hight, extolled my music, and often when the sea
was calm, and the sun was about to dip its fiery arc in
the bosom of the distant waves, I would take my guitar,
which I could at times strike' in tuneful, melody, and
play for him some plaintive air. He had a fine voice,
and sang delightfully. The tears would glisten in his
eyes when I would happen to play a melody which re-
vived the memories of the past.
"Captain Walsingham gave me a large Newfound-
land dog, because I took a fancy to him. He said he
would give a thousand such dogs if he could only be-
"hold Sebastian Rockford again. He has made his will,
devising his whole estate to Sebastian, if he should ever
be found. That boy must have been truly and wonder-
fully interesting and lovely.. Walsingham was one of
the first graduates of the University of M  . He
seemed dearer to me for that reason. When shall I see
him again ? Bless his soul! he would receive not a sous
for my passage from Madrid to S   0."
"I am here in this dull town, fully one hundred miles

'

from father's residence. I long to go and throw myself
in his arms, yet I cannot. Crofton is fully fifty miles
lower down the river than this place. I have been here
several months, yet have heard nothing from those I
love. I will soon be out of money, yet I trust that the
portraits I am painting may replenish my empty purse.
I shall not stay here very long, but let come what wmay,
I must go to Crofton and ascertain if Elfrida Mordaunt
is yet single. But why should I care to know? She
is the ward of the Governor and I am only a poor
painter.

ROOKFORD.

247


248             ROCKFORD.

CHAPTER XXXXII-
[FROM FALKNER MANNING'S JOURNAL.]
"THE night is dark, and my soul is sad. As I st
here in my lonely chamber and listen to the merry peals
of laughter that come from the street below, my mind
reverts to the scenes of my college days, when Corolan
was with me; when we were happy; when only the
faint shade of a shadow had crossed the path of my
life. I feel sad; yet why should I repine ?  It may be
that the darkest days of my life have passed. The cur-
tain of Time may soon ise and present different scenes
to my view. I have tasted of the bitter dregs of the
cup of despair, yet 'the future may have bliss in store
for me. If I could only discover my dear father, who
has grieved for me so bitterly, I would bid sorrows de-
part, and fly to his arms. I would then go back to my
foster father and ask his blessing. I love him too well
to dwell near him, knowing that he is not my parent.
Why did he not rear me as a foundling?  I should not
have repined if the discovery had been made to me at
an earlier day.
"The only friend I have i'n this town is my New-
foundland dog. He is lying at the door of my cham-
ber, guarding it from intrusion. Last night while I

was asleep, I was 'aroused from my slumbers by his
barking. In a few moments I heard the sound of a
footstep upon the stairs. I apprehended no danger-
feared none; the word is not to be found in my vocabu-
lary. The hand that writes these lines can trace with
delicate pencil, the softest tint of an oriental landscape,
and hurl the bar and quoit farther than any man with
whom I have ever contended. I feared no danger-
had no enemy in the, world that I knew of, yet the cau-
tious tread of the intruder aroused my suspicions. In
a moment after he had arrived at the head of the stair-
case, the dog disputed his approach to the door of my
chamber. I rose quickly from my bed and sprang to
the assistance of my noble guardian. As I opened the
door, by the light pf the moon I beheld a stalwart man,
with long grisly beard and gray hair, standing to con-
front me. I asked the cause of the intrusion; he spoke
not, but, taking a knife from iis girdle, he rushed upon
me. I seized his wrist, wrenched the knife from his
hand, and hurled him down the steep stairway. Not de-
siring to return to a contest so unequal, the assassin
left. the house; I did not pursue him, but sought my
room again. I lighted my lamp and examined the in-
strument of destruction. It is a beautiful dagger; the
blade is of the finest Damascus steel;. the handle is sil-
ver, inlaid with pearl. 'C. R.-to Ben Harley!' is'
.the inscription. 'C. R.!' Was I so near danger with-
out knowing it! ;Harley is the name of the wretch
who desires to rob or slay me.. 'C. R.!' Oh, how those
horrid initials haunt me! Conrad Rodman, without a

ROCKFORD.            249


ROCKFORD.            251

250            ROCKFORD.

doubt, is engaged with desperate men. He is thb one
whom my kindness helped to restore to health. He
stole me from my father. He is evidently near me;
he alone can restore me to my birth-right. I will seek
him out and denounce him. He shall reveal the secret,
or I will plunge this knife into his bosom. I would
rather die than be kept in suspense."
"I have seen INodn an, but for a few minutes. He
is strangely altered. How differently he appears from
the mild, gentle,.intelligent man that gave me the chain!
I seized him by the collar, held him fast, and confronted
him with kidnapping me! I threatened to call the po-
lice and have him arrested. His hand sought a dagger
that was concealed in his bosom. I hurled him to the
ground, and was in the, act of castigating him, when I
beheld the same man whom I had encountered and dis-
armed at my chamber door. In an instant Rodman
was gone, and I turned to grapple with my quondam
stout antagonist. Thrice I hurled him to the ground,
yet he returned to tho attack. He drew a pistol and
fired at me, but without effect. I disarmed and disabled
him; he was at my mercy. I bade him depart, though
I ought,to have handed him over to the officers of the
law. Happy it was for them, and unfortunate for me,
that they engaged me upon the commons, or they 'would
have been apprehended by the police."
"I have finished the portraits; my purse is filled with
golden coin; I ought to be happy. I am going to

Crofton; 1 must see Elfrida, if but for a moment; I
must gaze again upon her beautiful face, though she
may be the bride of another man, whom Fate hath not
doomed to despair, as it hath done me.

I


0'

ROCKFORD.

,.CHAPTER       XXXIII.
[FROM MORTIMER.ROCKFORD'S JOURNAL.]
"I HAvE lost my son; the light of the world is dark-
ness to me. I am a man of sorrow and acquainted with
grief. What is life to me, now that I have no Sebas-
tian! My fine mansion and the wealth I have accumu-
lated yield me no pleasure. It is true that my dear
Josephine is left to me, but she is overwhelmed with
sorrow. My hearth is desolate; the joy that lighted
up my house has fled. Only twelve months have passed
since his disappearance. I have reasons to believe that
he lives, because I have received anonymous letters to
that effect. I will start upon a tour of search for the
boy to-morrow. The inhabitable globe shall be travers-
ed or Sebastian shall be found. How bright and sweetly
he smiled when I ordered the nurse to take him to the
beach and see the wild waves dash against the shore!
I knew not how much I loved him until he was lost to
m~e and his dear mother."
"Five years have passed swiftly away, yet I have
not found my dear son. I have been in every impor-'
tant city of the Union; have offered large sums for Se-
bastian, yet my heart is still bereaved. I suspect that

I

ROCKFORD.

~.253

Royston has had something to do with, his abduction.
The police have discovered the robbers' retreat, and, as
fate had directed, some of the ring-leaders have been
discovered. Who would have believed that Hans Krem-
ple and the painter Heinrich were implicated.! It seems
that they have been engaged actively with the band for
a number of years. The police had been directed to
the Hermit's. retreat iy some travelers who had barely
escaped with their, lives. The officers of the law con-
. cealed themselves in the vicinity of the den and wit-
nessed the assassination of a man one night, and Hans
and Heinrich were the principal murderers. They and
Pierre,' a French pirate, are now in jail awaiting their
trial. I am engaged in the prosecution. Their trial
will come on next week. The prison is guarded night
and day, for fear of a rescue. Dame Elspeth and Dan-
die Doane were examined, but, nothing of a criminal
nature being found against them, they were discharged.
They htve been forced to leave the country by the citi-
zens, 'who have long suspected them.
" What a pity it is that Harley and the notorious
Royston, who has been at large under sentence of death,
should not have been taken !"
"I have just returned from the Court-house. The
trial of Kremple, Heinrich and Pierre has terminated.
There were many strange faces %in the Court-house;
some suppose that, many of the- confederates of that
lawless gang were present. Kremple received the sen-
tence of death with more composure than I imagined

a


254             ROCKFORD.

he possessed. Heinrich and Pierre were in a joyful'
glee when the Judge ordered them to rise and receive
the sentence of death."
"A large concourse of people thronged the town to-
day. I have never seen a greater crowd in the town of
Crofton. The thoroughfares were crowded to overflow-
ing at an early hour. When the jailor delivered Hans
Kremple, Heinrich and the pirate Pierre into the custody
of the Sheriff, the jolly crowd made the welkin ring
with their cheers. Some of the boys asked Hans if he
didfnot desire to sell them a patent for making saws,-
and teach them the art of erasing names from jewelry.
"While on. his way to the place of execution, Hans
stole the golden cross from the priest, and when he was
swung off he held the purse of one of the by-standers
between his thievish fingers! Ueinrich and Pierre died
sullenly, but there was much merriment over.the eleva-
tion of the inimitable Hans Kremple.  Hans would
have made a safe companion to have taken a sea voy-
agf ith; for, as the poor fellow was surely born to be
hanged, he might never have feared death by the waves."
"Twelve years have passed since the abduction of my
sainted Sebastian. I have not yet despaired of seeing
hih again. We have adopted a lovely little girl of ten
years of age. If Sebastian does not return she will be
heir to my broad estate. I have lately been to the town
of 1M-- to see Elfrida. I saw one of the most hand-
some and amiable boys in the stage I ever beheld. He
reminded me so much of my lost Sebastian, that I felt

L
V

a strange fondness for him. He said his name was
Falkner M:anning, and his father lived at Oak-Lawn.
He had a little brother with him, over whom he was
exercising parental care. That boy will yet arrive at
distinction."
"I have just returned from the University of M~ ---.
I delivered the diplomas and prizes to the "graduating'
class. It was with much pleasure that I conferred the
honor upon Falkner Manning. He is the most distin-
guished young man of my acquaintance. He bore his
honors so meekly, and reminded me so much of myself
when I was of his age, that had I not known that he
was the son of Theodore Manning, Esq., I would have
claimed him for Sebastian,

ROCKFORD.            255


256            ROCKFORD.

CHAPTER XXXIV.
[FROM THE JOURNAL OF MORTIMER RoCKFORD.]
"IT is strange that I should have this load of sorrow
to encumber me so long. I have grieved over the loss.of
Sebastian for more than twenty years,.still I shed tears
when I think of the beautiful face, the, flowing auburn
ringlets and the sparkling blue eyes of the beloved boy.
I have hopes- yet that my son may be restored to me,
having received several letters of late from an anon-
ymous author that Sebastian was living, totally uncon-
scious of the names of his parents. It is strange that
the individual who holds my secret within his, breast
should make no revelation to me.
"I have heard nothing from Royston for several
years. He was recognized at one time and arrested.
The officers who were conveying him to. this place for
the purpose of confining him in prison, were attacked
by members of his desperate band, and the prisoner was
rescued from custody.
" I firmly believe that Royston is the person that stole
Sebastian, assisted by some of his lawless clan. Since
the execution of Hans Kremple, I have called to mind
the strange individual I saw with him on the evening
Sebastian was abducted. I believe, now,' that it was

ROCKFORD.                  25T
Royston himself in, disguise. If Royston desires a
compromise, and will restore my son to me, he shall be
rewarded with wealth. I am the Governor of the State,
and will pardon him if a petition is presented from a
respectable source."
"I have lately heard of the death of my aged aunt
Margery. May the sod rest lightly upon her breast,
and the flowers bloom sweetly around her sacred -grave.
Her faii' daughters have made exemplary wives, (thanks
to the good advice of their mother.) Mr. Watson and
Mr. Judson were happy in their selection of partners.
They have frequently visited. me. The party I gave
them when Sebastian was a child, will ever be remem-
bered by me. They were so happy; we were all happy."
"There are some things I delight to remember; and
as their scenes come up froni the mist of long forgotten
years, I put forth my hand to draw aside the curtain of
memory, as if about to gaze upon a picture which once
had the powers of fascination. Yet, I pause and reflect
ere I draw aside the veil that divides me from the scenes
of former years, as if I feared the change would pro-
duce disappointment. How often have-I imagined that
the house in which I passed the first years of my exist,-
ence equalled in splendor some noble old Gothic struc-
ture, yet a visit to the old homestead, which is scarcely
two miles from my own house, dispelled the illusion. It
is strange I had noe'visited the house since the death of
my father compelled my mother to leave it and dwell in
a cheaper cottage. How changed, thought I, is the
17

0

4


258                ROCKFORD.'
scene; but still, time had, dealt gently with the old
house, and memory revealed every picture to my ad-
miring gaze.
"In youth, our admiration of the most trivial objects
is only equaled by the pleasure we experience during
all those golden moments which come no more in after
life. Ourpleasures die as the flowers, but they live em-
balmed in our memory like Some departed hope, which
may return with the soft rays of Spring. Our tastes
change; the flowers and birds that once delighted us,
yield us no pleasure, because the associations which
made them dear are far away.
"I stood beneath the tall oak, where my dear father
used to sit, and, as I fancied I could see the good old
man reclining in his easy chair beneath the umbrageous
boughs of the graceful tree whose branches were the
homes of tbze tuneful choristers, I brushed away the
tears that voluntarily4dimmed my eyes. I hope that I
may meet my father again, in that better world, where
farting is never known-where sorrows come not-
where pain is felt not. Is it not a tender mercy, that
Earth is not the abiding plabe of the saints, but that a
holier and happier sphere is prepared for them by the
wise Ruler of the Universe ?  Death is only the gate
through which we must pass to reach that Elysian plain
that is watered by the river of Life. How solemn it is
to visit the family cemetery, and see the graves of de-
parted friends! Yonder is the grave of a man who was
interred' when I was a lad. I remember how I shud-
dered and clung to the skirts of my mother's dress as

ROOKFORD.                  259
the coffin was lowered into the deep and solemn grave,
and I heard the rumbling soundof the fatal clod falling
upon the frame-work of the vault. He had died in the
spring time of life, having hastened his death by draughts
from the wine cup. The old spring is down yonder, be-
neath the hill, surrounded with sycamore trees. It was
a sacred spot in my boyhood's days, 4nd the trysting
place of many happy thoughts. If .I had a pleasant
book to read, it was thither I hastened. It was there
that my mother used to sit and tell me' of the joys of
Heaven. Fifty years have fled since I stooped to im-.
bibe the sweet waters of that old moss spring ;. but I
must cease-my soul is sad.
I know not why my mind dwells so much upon Falk-
ner Manning, who received the first honor at the Uni-
versity of M -, six years since. I have learned that
he has lately returned from a visit-to -the Old World,
whither he had gone to copy the paintings of the mas-
ters of the Art. Captain Walsingham was here ,yes-
terday, and informed me that young Manning was a
passenger in his vessel. Walsingham was so much de-
lighted with him that he gave him a large Newfoundland
dog, similar to the one he presented to Sebastian. Poor
Carlo sleeps at the beach near the spot where his young
master was stolen, and a plain marble slab marks, his
resting place. Jupe reposes by his side. How they
loved Sebastian! they grieved at his loss seemingly as
much as we did.
"My hair is perfectly gray; yet my form is erec,

1~


260

ROCKFORD.

and my features have not assumed the appearance. of
old age. Josephine looks young yet, though grief has
depressed her spirits. Elfrida has been a faithful child,
and a great source of comfort to my sorrow-stricken
wife. I know not why she has never married. I some-
times think that she has refused so many opportunities
of marrying from the love she. entertains for Josephine
and niie.  She says she never intends to leave us. Bless
her soul! she lights up our benighted hearth, and con-
soles us, to a great extent, for our losses. I oftentimes
think she loves Manning, yet she has never revealed the
secret to me. She seems interested in him, and often
joins me in extolling his merits. Josephine goes out
upon the beach and casts many long and sorrowful glances
upon the sea-indulging the vain hope that every home
returning vessel may restore Sebastia to her arms."
"I have just returned from the seat of Government,
having been called thither on official business. When
iny term of office expires, I shall not again be a candi-
date for re-election-as I am tired of public life, and
am heartily disgusted with the fawning and flattery of
office seekers.' I shall retire to the privacy of my own
peaceful home, and spend the remnant of my days in
the shades of private life. The world is a theatre, up-
on whose stage are enacted many strange scenes. The
curtain rises amid the cheers of -the impatient audi-
ence: a tragedy is performed, and the idle and listless
laugh when a- chief is slain; the sentimental young man
may shed-tears at the pathetic passages of a comedy."

I

ROCKFORD.

261

CHAPTER XXXV.
[FROM THE JOURNAL OF ELFRIDA MORDAUNT.]
THE fear has almost expired, and I shall soon see
Falkner. I have not yet told Mr. Rockford that he
was coming; I have never informed him I possessed any
than feelings of friendship for Falkner. I went to Mrs.
Rockford's room one morning for the purpose of making
the confession, but my lips faltered, and my tongue was
silent. Falkner will soon be here, and my cup of bliss
will be full. I think he bears a striking resemblance to
the portrait of the beautiful Sebastian that hangs in the
parlor. His hair and eyes correspond exactly with Se-
bastian's, though the curls of Falkner may be a shade
darker. - Yes! yes! I am too happy! Falkner will
bless my sight ere ohe more month shall have elapsed.
His last letter was so full of love that I pressed it a
thousand times to my lips. It is now in my bosom,
where it shall remain until I see him. I have placed it
next to my heart, which beats fond and fervently for
him, and him only. I know he loves me tenderly; I
know he is faithful and true to all his pledges. I love
him the more tenderly because he loves me for myself
alone. I told him that'I had no fortune; that I should
never consent to receive the estate that belongs to Se-


262

ROCKFORD.

bastian, or anf portion of it, as he might be restored
to his father. Yes, he loves me for myself and this
faithful heart will cease to beat ere my love for him
shall grow cold."
"Ah, me! IJam so miserable! Fate hath decreed
that I should be unhappy. All is dark and dreary;
the future hath no bright hopes for me; the day no sun-
shine. I recall the lines of the poet of Nature to mem-
Had we never loved so kindly,
Had we never loved so blindly,
Never met and never parted,
Then we'd -not been broken-hearted.'
"I cannot blame him; I cannot reproach him; I can-
not cease to love him.  Oh! the fatal letter! it came
this morning by post.. It has plunged me in a sea of
sorrow. The noble, generous Falkner is not less hap-
py than his miserable Elfrida.  How his heart must be
troubled! how his mind must be tortured, to leavethre
good man whom he so fondly loves! He has released
me from every obligation, but that is cruel; I would
have loved him more tenderly-for his misfortunes. Sup-
pose he is a foundling, he is none the less noble-none
the less dear to me for that. He is upon the broad
waters of the ocean ere this, and is borne far away from
her Who adores him."
" Three years have passedsince I saw Falkner-three
long years, filled with bitterness. My secret has been
kept within my own breast, and there it will remain for-
ever. .I cannot think he will ever return. He is so

I

ROCKFORD.

263

pure, so sensitive, so refined, that he wrongly imagines
he is disgraced. He will never return, I fear; he will
pass his life amid solitude; he will delight to remain in
obscurity. If I could only see him; if I could only
speak to him, it would lessen this burden of grief at my
heart. No! no! I must pine in solitude. I must reject
the addresses of every one as I did those of H-.-.
"Mr. Rockford has beeh elected Governor, and I am
to go to the Capital to spend the winter during the ses-
sion of the Legislature. Mr. Rockford looks so noble,
and is so little elated at his distinguished honors, that
I am astonished. He would give all his wealth to have
Sebastian restored to him."
"I have just learned that Falkner has returned! he
is near me! he is in Crofton! Shall I see him? Has
he forgotten his Elfrida?  No, never! never!' If I
.knew that he loves me yet, an eternity of bliss would
be centered in a moment.
- "Be still, my throbbing heart, be still! Elfrida is
unhappy ! Elfrida is happy!

j


264            ROCKFORD.

CHAPTER XXXVi.
[FROM FALKNER MANNING'S JOURNAL.]
"WrEN I had resolved to go to Crofton, I commenced
making preparations for the journey. My trunks were
quickly packed, my bills paid, and I left the place, hav-
ing hired conveyance and a driver. As we proceeded
along the road that extends through the beautiful coun-
try, Iwvas forcibly reminded of the home of my child-
hood, and I wept. My own beautiful land of the South
is not less lovely than the most smiling portions of Italy
or France. The leafy magnolias, which bear the sweet-
est flowers that ever bloomed; the stately pines, whose
stalwart branches have withstood the storms of an hun-
dred winters; the graceful sycamores and elms; the
live-oaks and cypress, beautify those never-ending
groves, while the vine, the lowly shrub and honey-
suckle fill every place'with flowers and fruits. Was
the land of Beulah more lovely in the eyes of the Is-
raelites than the beautiful vine-clad land 6f the South
is to us?  Mountain and valley, hill and plain, river,
brook, spring and fountain present one continued round
of beauty and interest. Who that is born at the South
would care to dwell in the frozen regions of the North?
"It was nearly night, and the stately pines cast long,

0,

ROCKFORD.

265

shadows across my path. I saw several men skulking
behind the trees, endeavoringto shun observation. I
directed the driver to be upon his guard, and force the
horses to their utmost speed, if an attempt should be
made to attack and rob us.
"I was not kept long in suspense. We had proceeded
scarcely another mile on our journey, when a man,
mounted upon a charger that had the appearance of
having been ridden very hard, advanced to the carriage
and ordered the driver not 'to proceed another step at
the peril of his life. The robber wore a mask, but from
his form and the appearance of his gray hair, which his
hood failed to conceal, I easily recognized Harley, or
the ruffian whom I had twice :before encountered  I
demanded of him the cause of my being thus rudely
stopped upon the highway, at the same, time o-dering
the postillion to drive on. The highwayman drew a
pistol and discharged itat the head of the 'postillion,
who, falling from the box a moment sooner than the re-
port was heard, escaped with his life. I sprang from
the carriage and went to the assistance of the cowardly
fellow, who was nearly insensible from fear. He was
trembling in every joint of hiscowardly frame. When
I raised him from the ground he could scarcely stand.
Four men emerged from the woods and awaited the
commands of the leader, who sat upon his horse, a cool
spectator of the scene. I -knew my own strength, and
did not fear those who were directed by the leader to
force me to submit. I drew out a pistol and fired it at
the foremost man. He fell instantly, but I was closely


266

ROOKFORD-

pressed by the others, who were within arm's' reach of
me. I smote one -of then with my heavy stick, which
felled him to the ground. I had a desperate encounter
with the remaining two, inflicting upon them several
severe wounds with my knife. 1Two men rode up to my
assistance and the graceless assassins fled, leaving be-
hind them the robber whom I had shot. f was bleed-
ing from several severewounds I had received during
the combat.
"I was glad to discover that the man was not dead.
I placed him in the carriage and looked around for the
postillion, who was lying at a little distance from us
with his face to the ground. I raised him up, telling
him there was no danger; he slowly recovered his
senses and went back to his position on the box. I
thanked those who had come to my assistance, and they
accompanied me to the nearest-house, where my wounds
and those of the robber were dressed. The physicians
said that the man was seriously, but not mortally,
wounded.
"I was able next morning to proceed upon my jour-
ney, leaving the wounded man with the landlord, who
promised to have him sent to Crofton for commitment
as soon as expedient. . I arrived at Crofton that even-
ing, much fatigued, and feverish from loss of blood."

I

ROCKFORD.

267

CHAPTER XXXVII.
"Father'! Corie!" said Falkner, as he hastened to
embrace Mr. Manning and Corolan, as thby stepped
into his studio, "welcome to my poor apartment. Is
mother with you?"
Mr. Manning pressed Falkner to his bosom, and shed
tears of joy. Corolan wept upon the neck of his be-
loved Falkner. It was long before they were sufficiently
composed to reply to the interrogatories of the painter,
who was just finishing a portrait of Governor Rockford.
"Falkner," said Mr. Manning, "you have been in
Crofton nearly six months, yet you have not. written
one line to me. I was only. made acquainted with your
residence by accident. A traveler came to my house,
and I gave him entertainment. He was very commu-
nicative, and I became interested in his conversation.
I learned from him that he had witnessed the encounter
between a young man by the name lof Manning and
several highwaymen. From his'description, I was cer-
tain that it was my own self-exiled Falkner. He said
that his companion assisted him in extricating you from
a hazardous combat, thpugh. he was confident that you
would have conquered them all. The man upon, horse-
back had taken no part in the fight, from causes un-

6


268

ROCKFORD

known to my informant. Corolan and myself made-
irhmediate preparations to come and see you.  40
"We were surprised to receive a visit from Rodman
-whom you remember-on the day we ahad set apart
to commence our journey. He is strangely altered, and
time has not dealt gently with him. There is some-
thing mysterious about the man I cannot fathom. He
said that the time had come for him to reveal the secret
of your birth. He directed me to pack up the articles
which were found with you, (when Heaven directed the_
person, as it seemed, to leave you at my room door,) 'and
carry them with me. He could restore you to your pa-
rents beyond a doubt. He has not revealed the name
of your father. Are you prepared to see him, Falkner ?"
"I am," said the boy. "I would rather learn the
name of my father, and rush into his arms-though he
were the poorest man in the Universe-than remain in
suspense. But whoever he is, I cannot, I shall not love
him more than I do you. I have wronged you, my
father, in not writing to you, but I could not."
"How you have grown, my son; you were tall, but
rather slender, when you left upon your European tour.
Now you are almost Herculean. Corie is scarcely half
your size. Your form is similar to that of Governor.
Rockford."
"Father," said Falkner, "when shall I see Rodman ?
Did he tell you that I had encountered him and de-
nounced him for his perfidy?"/
"He is in town now, Falkner, but preferred stopping
at an obscure hotel near the wharf. He would give me

I

ROCKFORD.

269

no explanation of his preferring to take that course.-
To-morrow morning he will meet us in this room, where
the mystery will be cleared up."
Falkner had held Corolan in his strong arms during
the conversation with his, father, as if he had been a
child.
Corolan was small of stature but had improved much
in appearance since last we saw him. He was slightly
below the medium height, though very strong for a man
of his size. His beard was long, and gave him a manly
appearance. Falkner was slightly above six feet in
height, and as finely formed as the statue of'Apollo.
"Falkner, my own brother-I shall never call you
by another name-you must return home and live with
us, and share ,our 'estate. You must never leave us
again. Put up the brush, throw away the paints, break
all the pencils, and go with us-to the home of our happy
childhood. It was cruel in you to,-leave us and remain
away so long.. My dearest wife will be-so glad to wel-
come you. Mother is almost frantic to see you. I have
been married two years, Falkner. 'Our little boy bears
your name; do go with us and see him."
"I will go," said Falkner, "but I cannot promise to
remain. I will tell you my future plans after I have
seen Rodman. How is dominie Heflin?"
"He sleeps the sleep of death," said the father. "He
often spoke of you during his illness, and shed many
tears at your departure."
"Where is the chair' Mr. Rodman gave you, broth-
er ?" said Corie.


270            ROCKFORD.

"I have it still, Corie ; but he shall receive it back
when I see him. The ungrateful man is not worthy of
respect; besides, he is a robber, or he would not have
been an associate of Harley's. It is reported and be-
lieved here that Harley was among the number of those
who were slain in a skirmish with the police a few weeks
since."
The father and sons spent the whole day in conversa-
tio1 and'when they retired to their beds-at the -hotel
it was late. They retired to dream, perhaps, of what
the morrow might disclose.
The lamps were lighted in the stately mansion of
Mr. Rockford. The reader is familiar wifth the place
and it needs no further description than we have given of
it heretofore. The Governor was seated with his wife
and Elfrida at the supper-table. Elfrida had just in-
formed them that she was the affianced bride of Falk-
ner Manning, the poor artist. The Governor. said he
would not withhold his consent. The conversation was
broken off by a loud knock at the door. Mr. Rockford
went to the .door and beheld an aged and infirm man,
who craved an audience with his excellence. He led
theiman mto the library, and desired him to take a seat.
"4You had a little son stolen from you about twenty-
three years ago," said the man.  "Have you heard
from him of late years ?
"I have not," said Rockford, becoming interested.-
"Pray keep me not in suspense. Tell me instantly, in
the name of God, do you know aught of Sebastian ?
Speak, man, does he live?"

I

." He lives," said the man; "and you may see him
soon, upon conditions. Do you remember one Carl
Royston, who made his escape from prison on the night
previous to the day set apart for his execution?"
"1I do," said Rockford, "and I have long supposed
that he was engaged in the.abduction of the boy."
"He was," said the man. "He told me that he did
it for revenge. He has seen the error of hi ways.-
'The last one -.of his band has suffered death, and he
alone remains. He cannot present himself before you
except you will sign this instrument. When that is
done he will conduct you to your son."
"The Governor took the instrument and examined it,
(which was a form drawn up for the pardon of Carl
Royston, under sentence of death for the murder of
Jonathan Winslow.)
"I do not know whether I ought to sign this or not,
sir. I am the Governor of the State, and Sebastian
is my own. son. I. am willing to give this man Roys-
ton thousands of dollars if he will restore my son, but
I ought not to sign his pardon. What is' your name,
old man ? you look feeble."
Mr. Rockford ordereda glass of wine to be brought,
and the old man drank it. He seemed much revived,
and resumed the conversation.
" It may not int rest you to learn my name. I came
upon an errand o mercy. Royston will not receive
your gold. Tf you do not sign the pardon you may
never recover your son.'
"When shall I see Sebastian if the pardon is sign-
ed ?  said "A excited Governor.

ROCKFORD.            271


272             ROCKFORD

"To-morrow," said the man.
"Hand St to me," said the Governor; "I would do
it were it the last act of my life."
The name of Mortimer Rockford was affixed to the
instrument in an instant.
"But I must keep the pardon in my hands until I see
the man Royston himself."
"You can have the opportunity to-night, sir," rejoin-
the man.
"Then let us go instantly to him," said the Governor,
"moments seem like hours to me."
"Royston stands before your excellency," said the
man, who, pulling of his gray wig, and freeing himself'
from the long black wrapper, revealed the person of
Conrad Rodman, or Carl Royston.-
Morning came. The day was beautiful. The sun
shone in splendor, and the house of the Governor was
thronged, as usual, with early visitors. Rockford excus-
ed himself, requesting his friends to remain with his
wife and Elfrida  He and Royston (who had remained
with him during the night) left the house and proceeded
to the town.
"Let me step into the studio of the painter one mo-
ment, Mr. Royston," said the Governor, "and I will at-
tend you.- He has been painting my portrait."
When Rockford entered the room of the artist, he
was surprised to see two strangers with Falkner.
"Mr. Manning, I am glad to meet with you again
I scarcely recognized you. This is your younger son.

ROCKFORD-                 273
I have been surprised that your son Falkner, here,
should have taken it into his head to be a painter.-
Have you failed in business, sir, that Falkner was driven
to this expedient ?  He informs me that he is penni-
less."
Mr. Manning looked sad, Falkner blushed, and Cor-
olan was confounded.
"Your excellency will excuse me if I give you an
evasive answer," said the good farmer.
At that moment Royston, who had remained in the
sti-eet, entered.
"I have come according to appointment, Mr. Man-
ning," said Rodman. "Falkner, I hope you will for-
give me. I can repair every injury I have ever done
you.I
"How is this, sir," said Rockford, "do you know
anything of this young man? Let us proceed upon our
expedition."
"I will soon explain, sir,." said Royston, (or Rod,
man) this is the PLACE and this is the TIME to make the
revelation. Mr. Manning, yof will please produce the
clothes of the boy "-
"What boy---what clothes !" said the excited Gov-
ernor.
"The clothes of YOUR SON."
Why should this gentleman have them?" said the
Governor.
Will your excellendy please remain quiet a few min-
utes.  I will soon explain every point."
When the clothes were unwrapped, and- the gold chain
18


274             ROCKFORD.

was held up to view, Mr. Rockford sprang forward and
grasped them nervously.
"Sebastian's suit-Sebastian's chain! where is my
boy " said the Governor, as he fell to the floor. Falk-
ner raised the stately form of the prostrate Rockford,
and laid him upon his couch and bathed his head with
water. )Vhe he revived, he implored Royston to con-
duct him-to-his son instantly.
"Falkner, behold your father! Mr. Rockford, receive
back your stolen child!".
The Governor sprang from the couch and embraced
FAalkner with wild delight. Falkner could scarcely re-
alize his happiness. Mr. Manning appeared as if in a
dream. Corolain 'embraced Falkner and wept tears of
joy. Mr. Manning related to Mr. Rockford all the
partirnlars of the, early history of Falkner, with which
the meagleriefam~iliar.
"I have two fathers, now," said the artist. "My
love for the.h'ahli be-the same."
a             tWe'a   s ay-here another moment," said the
Cverni       W   m-st hasten to mother, my own Se
bastion. Coie, my dear friend, Mr. Manning; come,
Coroad' Roystn, all. We must go and convey the
news to Josephine."
They left the office of Sebastian (we shall call hiim by
his omw name) and proceeded to the house.
"I wonder why Mr. Rockford is bringing so many
friends home with him?  It is just like him-he often
brings a. dozen with him without having' given me warn,
ing. Elfrida, do you, ee Mr. Manning with them?"

U

ROOKFORD.
do, said the young lady; "and I must not re-
main here, but go and adjust my hair-.
Mr. Rockford'entered hastily, followed by Sebastian,
who was the only one of the party that could keep pace
with the lengthy strides of the excited and happy Gov
ernor, who, approaching the place where Mrs. Rockford
was standing, said:
"Oh! Josephine, God has heard our prayer. Sebas-
tian, behold your mother!"
We must let the curtain fall upon this scene.
Crofton has improved wonderfully since. tlhe abduc-
tion of Sebastian. Samuel Culverhouse. and Dorothy
have been sleeping for, many years under the sod.  Jo
sephus Napoleon BonapartA Snibbens married Miss "e
rusha Smith. He named his first child Joachim Napo
leon Murat Ney. le has not yet completed his knowl-
edge of the classics, but it is hoped that he may do so
before he dies.
There was a grand festival at the hoou.ok-
ford within a few weeks after Sebasti  ha been re-
stored to his father.  Captain WalsinghaInVas there
to give away the bride. Corolan and his wife and Mr.
Manning and his vyife were there.
All who were present -declared that Sebastian and
Elfrida were the finest, couple that ever knelt at the
altar.


4

-~ -

ERRATA.
On plage 73, for " captivus fugivit "read "capt
fugit.  On page 183, for ''purest foundations" read
"purest fountains."

inaJ        -

'  ,


  
             
         
       
   
