
    ----CITATION----
        Brownson, Sarah M.. At Anchor .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7997
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            At anchor 
            
               AT

ANCHOR:

A STORY OF OUR

CIVIL

BY
A2N AMERICAN.

NEW YORK:
D. APPLETON~ AND

COMPANY,

443 &amp; 445 BROADWAY.
1865.

4' 1

~; 4
I
4,.

WAR.


1~ /3/

AT ANCHOR:

£4?

~[69

ENTEEED, accordling to Act of Congress, in the year 1865, by
D. ArLroI &amp; CO.,
Iu the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New

4

('4
)

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.

CHAPTER L.

"KATE, you are nearest the door,. do ask Bessie
which of us is in luck now." So spoke Emm~a Lewis,
as .the door-bell ceased its second ringing.
"Wait until she is graciously pleased to inform
us," replied my .cousin Kate, who was at that moment
engaged in tying her slipper, a performance  he never
hurried, She hiad a'small foot, had Kate, but then she
was under size herself.
"No need, Emma," added Mary Allen, laughing.
" Of course Kate is the chosen one ; who buGilber-t
Stuart would have so little consideration lazy
toilettes as to call before seven ?"
"Nonsense!"' Kate ejaculated, blusW d   ty
bound; whereigpon Emma gave me        ~    sd.
glance, for everybody, except poor si1  ~,Ie

I


4               ATA TCHOR: ~                                        A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.       5

very well whose eyes lightened Gilbert Stuart's way
to ii~jiincie 'I~oin's dear old home.
Bessie, as fore~~ld by the wise Mary, announced
him.
"There, Kate! Now, Kate!" cried Emma, pre-
ten&amp;ing to help, but in reality greatly retarding Kate's
effort~ to dress. "Bless. me! not that eternal silk.
Why you'll melt the man!"
"Kate has no objection, I suppose," said Mary,
with more malice than one would expect from ~ girl
with a "Vocation," for Mary was to be a nunshe
said.
"I do not see why you all tease me," Kate mut-
tered, pretending to be vexed. "I am sure Mr. Stuart
pays just as much attention to Georgie as to me: 'why
don't you tease her?"
"Georgie!" exclaimed the girls, in arch chorus,
"who ever heard of such a thing!"
*" Do x*nake them stop,". pleaded Kate, turning to
me; but I said nothing. I was counting, by the beat-
ings of my heart, the few seconds necessary for me to
give to them, as proof of indifference to the Visitor be.
low; and W Kate wanted to be such a fool as to fancy
everyYg~entieman who came to see "the ladies" was
especi~1y~4et~' ~dorer, let her think so~ ,she ~irould, per-
haps, fiiid outythe difference some day.
"I~4elleve, as I ~m dressed, I will go down," I
I K
said at Thst. '"Kate will need considerable time yet

to make herself satisfactorily bewitching;" and. after
leisurely lounging out of the room, I hew down the
broad staircase, to meet him whose dear, dark eyes
once looking into mine, had so flooded my soul with
love and faith that I read, fearless in my own truth, in
his ever after quiet gaze, in his calm words, in his low-
toned voice, unfathomable depths ~f tenderness, turn-
ing silently to me, as the broad river runs noiselessly
to the ocean.
Years have passed since then ; grief; anguish, blood,
and death, ~~and between that day and this, and.
still I see myself; in the spring-time of my youth, be-
fore there had been a thorn 'or even a withered flower
in my pathway, or a cloud in my sky-a blooming -
girl, whose rosy cheeks and clear, dark eyes might
for a moment dim the purer beauty of clear cut feat-
ures, and broad, ftill brow: a creature of light, grace,
and happiness, flitting past the frowning pictures,
dancing down the dark polished stairs, with white
jewelled hands gleaming along the grim carvings!
Did angels fold their wings and weep, as she glided
swiftly through their ranks, down to the little worl~1
that was all the world to her-the 'world of Love?
Gilbert awaited me just by the door, leaning, with
the unconscious grace of-a strong man, against my
piano, raising his head slowly, as I came nearer, and
letting the light come up, not hastily, to hi~ dark, col-
orless cheek, to greet me.~
4'


A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.       '7

8              ATANCHOR

'~There was one song of which he never seemed to
grow tired, a weird kind of thing, with a mystic bur-
den of love triumphant only in death'; a song little in
accordance with' his cool temperament, yet his favor-
ite. I rarely waited for him to ask me to sing it, but
gave it unasked; now, when after some conversation
in the. twilight, h&amp; requested it, some indefinable im-
pulse made me answer:
"Not until I know wherein lies its charmI"
"Beware! Curiosity lost Eve her paradise."
'~ Thus, too, may I. So be it," I returned, smiling,
secure in my paradise, which could not banish me
while h~, liVed. "Tell me, have your' two mysteries.
any 'connection? Has ,my song any connection with
the mysterious miniature you guard so faithfully?"
For once I had seen him, in looking for a note~
take from his pocket an oval velvet case, inside of
* which I had vainly asked to look. Making the re
mark, I looked fearlessly up to his quiet eyes, wonder-
ing 'why the smiles should grow deeper, losing them-
selves in sadness, as he continued~ to gaze upon me.
".M~ist it be so?" he murmured, more of himself
than of me' it seemed. And then, without removing
from mine his eyes,'growing deeper and more tender
still, taking one of my hands in his, he placed in the
oI~her the velvet case-open.
It eQnl4ined a girl's portrait. A fair, young face,
fairer, fainter colored, lighter' lined than mine; a char-

acterless face, with delicate features, and soft, emotion-
less blue eyes; my cousin Kate's face, with only a
shade of resemblance, a misty, shadowy, flitting resem-
blance. My cousin Kate's face, but her face subdued,
refined, poetized, idealized.
She must love him,, or no painter could ever so
have painted her.
"Who is it?" I asked.
"It is myftanc~e," he answered.
Into my veins, even to the tips of the fingers rest'
ing in his, ran the hit iron that was to harden in my
soul. I smiled, said "How you surprise me!" thought
the face "lovely," and, by and by, went up stairs again.
"Why do you. not go, down?" I asked of Kate.
"Mr. Stuart will not think this very kind treatment."
Emma looked at me in surprise. "I should not
wonder if' they were engaged," It said to her, as soon,
as Kate had rustled her heavy silk out of' hearing.
"Suppose you 'and Mary entertain uncle Tom in the
library until I change my hair; it is so tight, it hurts
me."
Afterward, rising from my knees to cool my bead
in the night air, before joining uncle Tom, I saw Gii~
bert standing in the garden with Kate, tearing the
sweet June roses from my bushes, and, when tired of
playing with them, tossing them, leaf by leaf, intothQ
fountain.
It was "ar way he had."


A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.       9

CHAPTER IL
MY uncle Tom was an old bachelor, who had lov-
ed the ladies so well in his youth that he could never
decide on one to bless his age, to the exclusion of so
many others. *Not but that my uncle was young yet,
and, thanks to his whiskers, which were astonishing,
aud to his income, which was equally flourishing, he
was still in good demand.
lie was a glorious fellow; his hand, his heart, his
house, and his pursewere as open as the generous sun-
shine, and I, his nearest relative, a sisterless, brother-
lessorphan, seemed to be the one point on which he
centered all the affections of his ever warm heart.
Love, from my earliest recollection, had been my
breath of life, but a long line of rock-moulded ances-
tore, lighting, generation after generation, with all
fornis and shapes of care and wrong, had transmitted
to me, the last of their line, the strength of soul wrung
from' the accumulated trials and triumphs of their
struggling lives.
Like them, I was formed of the rugged Yew Eng.'

land granite, though my uncle's delicate chiseling,
and the graceful draping of steady happiness, made
me seem as if moulded from less enduring, but
more polished material. I do not know that uncle
To~ ever suspected the real under the seeming. He
caressed me like a baby, he dressed me, he feted me,
as if I had been born only to be borne through the
world in a jewelled car, over a pathway of roses. He
had but one object in life, as far as I was concerned,
and that was that I might equal my "glorious moth-
er."
My "glorious mother," who, as Mrs. Glynn had
so imprudently toldme, died in the dark and cold,
on the open field, not half a mile from her husband's
door!
Our house in summer had always some visitors;
~on the summer of which I have spoken it was full to
its utmost limits, our party having been augmented on
the day before the opening. of my story, by the-arrival
of my only fashionable relative, my aunt Graham, her
daughter Florence, lady's maid, and countless trunks;
my cousin Hal, "Lady Louise," his fast mare, his sad~
dle, buggy, gun, and fishing-tackle; and my unek~
~t'aham, who, however, had only taken a run down to
see his wife and train safely landed at her brother's.
My aunt Graham was the only woman whom I was
forced to regard as so immensely my superior that
during her visits I always looked upon myself as the
1*


10              AT ANCHOR:                                            A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      11

plainest, dowdiest, stupidest mortal in existence She
'denounced my grandest dresses as "1~ights," and my'
way of wearing my hair she regarded as "too shook-
)rg for any thing."
Her whole soul was bent on marrying off Florence,
who was now in her eighteenth year, and, despite he~
really good face and slender figure, was unengaged.
My duties as a well-behaved relative and' polite host-
ess required, in my aunt Graham's eyes, that I should
introduce all the eligible young men of our acquaint-
ance to Florence, retiring immediately afterward to
the background.
Before my aunt Qraham came, she had written
to Kate-she would not have dared do so to either
my uncle Tom or me-to know who were at "the
house," and before she had, been two hours in the par-
lor I saw that she had selected the victim whose sac-
rifice. was to be the result of the summer's campaign.
And~in her selection' I must say my aunt Graham
showed the taste and high ambition which, she often
assured me, were indispensable to a really fashionable
lady's "making-up." Carlton Aberthnay, on whom fell
her choice, was one of our most admired friends. He
was a South Carolinian bybirth, and more, a 'real Caroli-
nian, one of the almost mythical First Families of the
South, with just enough 'of Yew England training to
steady the Southern impetuosity with which he was.
lavishly endowed. G~nerous'and impulsive, brave and

courteous, high-toned and chivalric, there was no door
or heart that could be long closed to him.
Had Kate said nothing of his well-stocked planta-
tions, of his almost unlimited expectations, my aunt
Graham would have read the consciousness of wealth
and position in. the unassuming ease and graceful mod-
esty which, to less experienced eyes than those of the
sharp woman of the world with a daughter to settle,
would have been the last sign looked for.
I cannot say that the light I saw in Gilbert Stu-
art's eyes had blinded me to all the good in. other men,
so that they passed dimly before me, darkly as in a
glass, but I do know that as we all met in the parlor,
a day or two after that scene with Gilbert, and one
woman-glance of mine shut out that light, other men
came out from the background and shone in more dis-
tinct colors. And it was then, I think, that as Carlton
Aberthn~y stood by .Florence's chair; guiding her
through the intricacies of a Chinese puzzle, that I saw
in his countenance something I had never seen in any
other's, not even in Gilbert's ;-certainly 'not, in, Gil~
bert's. -
I can~ scarcely tell you what it was, it was so spir-
itual, so aspiring, so pure, so real, yet so fervid. Some-
thing that made me blush for the material, earthly
kind of existence that I led-I, a woman, who ought
to~walk in heaven's' ways, leading men with me, not
to stand afar- off wondering at. it in another's, The


12              ' A~r~&amp;~cuoR:'

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.       13

same -look, with less of determination, more of tender
humility-, equally pure, but more spiritual still, was al-
ways shining out of Mary Allen's sweet hazel eyes.
Wbile I watched that light in Carlton Aberthnay's
face, my cousin Hal. had evidently seen the same in
M~~~'s,~for I saw him sitting by her, with more of in-
terest and refinement in bis appearance than had ever
been won from him by the brightest "belle of the
balE"
"I can never do it," at last sighed Florence, look-
ing pitifully up to Mr. Aberthnay.
"Really? why, Miss Georgie did it at once. She
can explain it better than I;" and he turned to me,
much to Florence's disgust; she, however, maintained
a show of interest while I coldly and rapidly explain-
ed.~
To get her a-way from me, Mrs. Graham called her
to the piano, but Mr. Aberthnay did not follow; he,'
sat with me by the low French window, looking 'out
on the river.
He talked well, better than usual, for Florence had
rested his intellect, and it was ready for a fresh start.
His manner had always suited me as a 'relief from
the cold, unenthusiastic, undemonstrative ways of the
North; and, now that I was becoming' harde~0a from
the-joyous-hearted, impulsive girl, to the stately, sar-
castio woman, it did me good to mark the flow of his
i~~petuous nature. It amused me, leaning back in my

chair, refusing to lose myself in poetry or romance, to
hear him, excited to the utmost, paint for me his
dreams of the future. His especial ambition was mili-
tary renown; the pomp of battle was to him earth's
grandest romance. "I shall wait," he would often tell
me, "until some oppressed nation, with whose ~princi-
ples I can fully sympathize, rises against the 'oppress-
or, and join them, as Lafayette did the Colonists, as-.--"
"Byron the Greeks," I once interrupted him. "No,
no. Earth has many. ways to fame, and honor should
be every man's aim; but war is butchery, slaughter,
adorn it as you wilL"
~But I never moved him; and was nearer being
converted myself; for, after all, what man or woman
is great and good enough to be deaf to, the fife and
drum, or blind when "Horses prance and lances
gleam"? I found refuge in the magnetism of his
cheerful nature from my own thoughts. So I bore,
listening to him, without a word of complaint, t~he
dull, hard pain that was gnawing all the sweetness
and blessedness out of my life. I meant to be true
and just to Carlton Aberthnay, that' he might never
suffer, if indeed men ever, do suffer, as I was suffering
then. I knew that his ever courteous manner had a
shade of reverence in it for me that it had for no
other; mine to him was ever 'frank and cordial. Be-
yond that I meant that neither should go. I was tired
of love, tired of hearing of' it, tired of reading of it,

@1

4
|


14               'AT A rdnOR:                                               A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.     ~   15

* tired of living for it, and I meant there should be none
of it, between Canton Abertlinay and me.
Indeed Floi~ence Was determined on the same point,
and so contrived it that Canton would have been
more or less than man, could he have had a whole
heart to offer any other than herself
My cousin Hal, who, weak as he was, was beyond
his excellent mother's control, had "paired off" with
Mary since the first evening of their meeting. Kate
and Gilbert were almost equally exclusive, or I fan-
cied so; Emma, Uncle 'Tom, Aunt Graham, Mr. Ab-
erthnay, an~I myself were left to be as entertaining to
each other as possible under the circumstances. Gil-
bert Stuart came and went very much as of old, and.
among so many a~ff'iire8 dz~ eceur, my little trouble
passed unnoticed. How weak I. must seem when I con-
fess that my heart still ached for Gilbert. If by so
doing I could have preserved his present esteem, and
the hope that even yet was not dead, I would have
considered it happiness to follow him around the world
as the meekest of. servants, living years on a smile,
braving death for a loving look. Only that I knew
he would despise me for it, how I would have knelt
and begged for his love!
But well for me the delicate face, Kate's idealized
face, was always before me, standing, like the Angel
with the drawn sword, betWeen me and paradise. And
Kate herself-! Sometimes I almost pitied her in her

faint prettiness, as my uncle's rich-set mirrors flashed
back my royally-out features and my deep autumnal
coloring. I asked Kate nothing. I asked myself noth-
ing. I never analyzed my feelings, only, 'when sev-
ered from the being in which my own had been so
long absorbed, and the responsibility of my own life
and happiness came back to me, only then I longed to
throw myself into his arms, hide my head on his heart,
and pray him to take me back to the love which I still
believed had been, still was mine.
Was that my greatest folly?
Well, at least I kept it to myself. I went through
the almost daily agony of meeting and parting, with
a self-possession that astonishes me now, and must
have cQmpletely blinded him.
During the earlier summer months Gilbert had oft-
en been my escort, on Sundays, to church at the con-
vent where Mary Allen was then at schooL Her va~
cation had commenced during the week, but on the
first Sunday after the strange conversation with Gil-
bert, I proposed going to church there, as usual for af-
ternoon service.
"Who are for the convent?" I asked, with less in-
difference to the answer than became a polite and im-
partial hostess. "Xow, don't all speak at once!"
"I am at your service as usual," answered Mr.
Stuart, looking steadily at me.
"As I did not want to speak all at once,"~r.

14


A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      1'?

AT ANCHOR:

Aberthnay said, before I had replied to Gilbert, "I
have lost the opportunity of putting myself in the
way of getting an inside view of that mysterious build-
ing. Do pity me, kind Miss Vane."
"I do," I said; "but there is no reason why yoa
should not go to-day, the larger the party the bet-
ter."
"I am restored to happiness," Mr. Aberthnay
said, smilingly, and began an argument with Kate on
religious life, which was conducted with great spirit
on both sides, for Carl's religion was a quiet part of
him, and Kate was the most rigid of Presbyterians.
"Stop arguing," I had to say, at last, "and let us
decide how we shall go."
"Miss Mary is going with me in my buggy," Hal
answered, promptly; "I will show her a horse as is a
horse."
" You will very likely see too much of that horse;
Mary," I said. "If you ~have any regard for your
friends, go with me in sober style."
"Mr. Graham says Lad~y Louise is as gentle as a
lamb under his guidance," Mary answered. "I am
not afraid, and I like to drive fast."
"Very good beginning for a novice," I thought,
but decided not to interfere. When this important
matter was settled, it was proposed that the two gen-
tlemen and I should walk, and then began some little
eeremoniou~ politeness between Messrs. Aberthnay

and Stuart; which showed each wished the other a
thousand miles a~way.
Finally, Mr. Aberthenay came privately to me and
gave me to understand that some other day we could
go, but that as I had generally gone with Mr. Stuart,
and so on. He should not enjoy a pleasure at the risk
of interfering with Mr. Stuart's rights.
"Rights!" I echoed; "this is the first I have heard
of Mr. Stuart's rights!"
"How shall I express my meaning, then?"
"I do not know your meaning, nor care. I have
known Mr. Stuart ever since I can remember, but if I
had known him a thousand years I should not consid-
er he had any right to my society."
"On that account, no."
"Not on any account. He visits here as uncle
Tom's friend, and, some people think, it'is just possible,
my cousin-"
I felt ashamed of having said so much. Mr. Ab-
erthnay saw that I did, and vry quietly said:
"I had no idea of annoying you; I beg you will
forgive me."
"There is nothing to forgive. Come, now, it is
time for us to make ourselves ready for church. After
vespers very likely they will show you around that
mysterious building."
Our arrangements ended without including Mr.
Stuart, who chose to find e~couse for withdrawing for


18               AT A~CfloR:
seasons of his own, perhaps because Kate, who could
not be persuaded to put her foot inside a convent,
caine down, looking quite as pretty as. usual, just as
we were talking.
I have always thought if I should wake up after
days of sleep or unconsciousness on a Sunday, that I
* should know the day by the very freshness and still-
ness of the air. A sweeter Sunday there could not
be than that one on which Mr. Aberthnay and I took
our first walk together; and took that walk over the
* very ground where Gilbert Stuart and I had wander-
ed a hundred times, in the easy joyousness of the
bright years. of my life. Nothing, not even that reve-
lation of his, had seemed to show so cJearly our
broken trust, as that I walked there with another
man at my side.
How different it was! Yet my present companion
was one any womart could be proud to be with, and
against whose cheerful society and gentle deference few
hearts could find it in them to rebel. No more refer-
ence was made to Mr. Stuart ; and Mr. Aberthnay had
never been more interesting.
"This is really a charming town," he said to me*
in the interval of graver conversation. "I keep liking
it more the more I see of it. r remember your
speaking of it to me the summer I met you at West
Point, and my thinking to myself that I had seen all
Tew England when I saw 1W~.-.--. and, G-, for it is

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.

19

the usual remark that every N~ew England village is
a fac-simile of every other. I did not think then that
my fate would ever station me so near to it, any more
than I imagined that I should ever have courage to
speak a dozen consecutive sentences to the 'Miss
Vane,' who was so fair and stately, that ~ve cadets
trembled at our own audacity in asking her to dance."
"And Miss Vane, I assure you, looked upon each
particular cadet as a mountain of wisdom, wit, and
majesty. So our illusions leave us at every step."
"Some we say good-bye to with all our hearts,"
he answered; "some we would rather die than lose.
I have lost one to-day; I trust it will not come back."
"Oh?" I said, but I did not ask him what it was.
"Yes; but it is terribly selfish in me to be glad."
It struck me just then that he meant something in
regard to Mr. Stuart and me. We had been quite
often spoken of asengaged, and, nb doubt, Mr. Aberth-
nay hi~d had information to that effect.' I thought I
had undeceived him, however, for the future.
"Do you really mean that sweet little girl serious-
ly intends becoming a nun?" Mr. Aberthnay asked
me, when, a few minutes late; Hal and Mary dashed
by us at a rate not at. all in vogue among New Eng-
landers on Sund~y, and no more in accordance with
my own views of proper respect to the day. Mary, I
knew, would never venture to express any objection to
Hal, up to whom she looked with great respect and


20               AT A~cnoi~; 4                                        A STORY 0F OUR OlViL WAR.       21

perfect ignorance of any fault possible in him. Her
little mind had never been exercised in separating the
true from the false, the real from the seeming; certain
things were articles of faith with her; certain other
things she regarded and shunned with holy horror,
just as she had been taught.
"Yes," I said, "she does intend to' become a nun."
"Miss Mary seems just made for a nun,'~ Mr.
Aberthnay remarked. "She is just our ideal 'nun;
tender and sweet, simple and meek; she might have
sat for Tennyson's St. Agnes."
* "Surely if there is any truth in a vocation, Mary
'has it," I said; "she knows of no world outside the
oQnvent, and I do not think she will outgrow her pres-
ent ignorance; it is to be hoped for lier own peace
of mind that she will not. But herewe ~are at the
convent."
We found Mary ldssing nuns and girls indiscrimi-
nately. I ,myself could not deny that there was a
certainn pleasant'~charm around the pale-faced sisterhood
who had dragged me through the "elements" of Eng-
lish, French, German, Italtan, music, and drawing,
not to mention embroidery. The parlors were crowd-
ed with girls and their visitors, my heart ached for
the poor lonely ones who had none, and leaving the
parlor I found my way to the long class-room, and for
the sake of old times tried to endure the confusion
that was4 the natural consequence of a hundred and

fifty girls all talking at once. "I 'did not go crazy
ther&amp;," I thought, remembering my school days. "Noth-
ing will drive me crazy now."
A few words here and there, a glance' at my old
desk, and a glance through the window by which I
had lived so many feverisl~ lives, and my mission there
was ended. Just as I left, the bell rang for afternoon
service, and the tumult was in a measure hushed;
white veils fluttered from all parts of the room, while
I hastened to join my cousin and Mr. Aberthnay in
the parlor. Mary was taking her old place among
the girls.'
The beautiful chapel was still' as death as we en-
tered, nor did the long procession of white-veiled girls
much disturb its silence. Here every thing was saint-
ly, calm, and sweet. My lost girlhood, my proud, am-
bitious girlhood, with its wild aspirations, its grand
imaginings, its foyal hopes, rose u~ before me, until I
cowered before the memory. And while the nuns'
sweet voices blended with those of the girls, had all
the world been there I could not have repressed the
tears that seemed wrung out of my very heart. I had
~been wishing for them ever since that night. I felt
better when they came.
"Only a few weeks more," Mary whispered, as she
bade the nuns 'farewelL "Only a. few weeks ~more
and I shall be always with you; but it is a 'long time
to wait."

20

21


22               AT A~CHOI~~                                          A STORY 0? OUR CIVIL WAR.       23

* "Patience, my child," one answered. "Our Lord
will repay yow tenfold for waiting. It is better you
should see the world, and know it, so that if you
should be ever tempted to wish for its vanities, you
may remember what they are worth. Go, dear; God
in heaven bless you, and his holy Mother protect you
from all the snares~ of the wicked."
I fancied, as the nun said this, that she had had at
least a glimpse of Hal's well-trimmed whiskers.
"I suppose they are sincere," Mr. Aberthnay said,
as we left the convent. "They live on another plane
than ours, speaking after the manner of the 'spiritual-
ists.' I believe the~r mean all they say."
"Indeed they do," I exclaimed. "No one could
live so except sustained by the faith ihat God wills it.
Who can tell-do they become mere machines, mere
creatures of habit, after a time, or is their self abnega-
tion a perpetually offered sacrifice? As we haVe seen
them, how near to heaven they seem! And oh! who
would not throw down life's burdens to possess the re.
pose we saw there?"
"Not I, for one!" cried Mr. Aberthnay; "I thank
God that life I&amp;as burdens. Repose is not for me; no,
nor for you either, Miss Vane. I thank heaven for
the energy and the activity that scorns rest."
"You are wrong there, the greater the activity
the~ sweeter th~ repose. Who sleeps best, the hard-
worked laborer, or the listless,. languid 'child of fash-

ion'? If any graybeards were here they would laugh
at us for thinking, at our* age, of rest, either to scorn
or to woo it. Yet what right have they? The heart
)~noweth its own litterness."
"I want a regular pow-wow with you to night,"'
said Hal to me on the way to tea.
"What is a pow-wow," I said to Hal.
"A pow-woW," he answered, "is a thundering big
talk. A consultation like."
"Oh! " I said, and promised. As soon as I had
opportunity I led the way to my own special sanctum,
in which foot of man had never entered.
"Well, Hal," I said, as he sat down.
"But, Georgie, do go someWhere else; I want to
smoke. I never qan get it out if I don't smoke."
I looked at my snowy curtains, my spotless carpet,
my neat books, my delicate flowers, my pictures, and
my hundred little "f~mininities," and wondered how
it would seem.
"Harry," I said, "you may smoke."
* "Georgie, you're bully," Hal said, looking for a
match, "a regular P. B.;" and having lighted his
cigar, he put his boots a little above his head, break-
ing only a vase and an ornamental tea cup in the op-
eration. I have noticed that when men open their
mouths to smoke, their feet, as a seemingly natural
consequence, seem to go up to the highest resting-place
at hand. I have never been able to explain the phe.


24                iT A~~nOR:                                             A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WARP         25

nomenon. "I tell you why," Harry went on, "there
isn't any humbug about you. I tell you there ain't
any thing~ like a. woman with a heart, who's got enough
natural fire not to be put out by a little smoke. You
know very well if yo~i weren't my cousin-I would,
I'll be dashed if I wouldn't. Nice little girl tbis Mary
"Vary."
"Dashed pretty eyes-have you noticed?"
"Yes-rathei~"
"Georgie "-this very solemnly-" I always was a
good~heartedfellOW-.wa5I1't I, Georgie?"
"Yes, Hal; I'll answer to that."
"That's you! Coz you're a team. You always
know what to say to a fellow, and ~et him oft' when
he's stumped. That's the sot of woman for me. Now,
just as sure as my name's Hal Graham, I will do it;
I will, I tell you; and when Hal Graham says he will,
be will. I will do it. I'll do it if it kills me. If the
landlady kicks up a muss, or the governor refuses to
come down like a P. B., I'll do it in spite of them!
I'll sell my gun, I'll give up Lady Louise, I'll give up
the club, I'll stop smoking-I mean I won't smoke so
much-and I'll do it, wouldn't you?"
"Decidedly!"
"She's just perfect, just as pious as any angel; will
get ~ne to heaven, sure. I'll do it-but how? There's
the rub."

"Oh, that's easy.
"The dickens it is! Did you ever try it?"
"No, Hal, I confess I never did."
"That's the plague of it; kow to do iii? I have
asked her out to drive to-morrow, and I'll ask her
then. What shall I say?"
"Let that depend upon the way things come around.
Just as if an old flirt like you would have any trouble!"
"But this is different. I positively believe I'm
regularly in this time. I should feel confoundedly
bad if she shouldn't see it as I do."
"Perhaps you had better give her more time.".
"Nary. I must know at once. Bless my Nsoul I
should be dead in love with her in a week. You
wouldn't have me in love with a girl until I was sure
she liked me, would you?"
"How can she help liking you, Hal ?"
Hal stroked his whiskers. "I'll tell you to-mor-
row," he said. "I know you want to get rid of me,
so good night-but I vow I'll do it. I'll sacrifice
myself I say, won't she look first-rate when she is
Mrs. G-., with a nice morning costume on, and a
white table cloth between us? A fellow could afford
to reform for such a pair of eyes, I tell you. Good
night. I don't~-suppose-she will stick to the~ convent
idea, will she ?
"Not if you can contrive to get her in love with
lnatrimQny,'?


28              AT ANCHOR:                                      A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.

* "Somehow it does not come natural to talk that
sort of thing to her. But to-morrow must decide.
Adieu. I'll do it, you may swear to that. Eon soir."
* Hal was as good as his word, and plumply pro-
posed to her at the end of their drive, and was, of
course, decidedly refused. But Mary was a perfect
novice in the* affairs of the heart; and when Hal told
her that he had an income large enough for two to
live on, with a little economy and some help from the
Governor, and that rather than see her immured in a
convent he would sacrifice himself on the altar of
matrimony, Mary thought pretty much as her hopeful
lover did himself, that he was the most generous of
men, and assured him, without the least embarrassment
or flutter, that she never meant to marry, that she was
going 'to be a nun, that her "vocation~~ was decidedly
to a religious life,, in which she would always pray for
him for being so good as to be Willing to sell his house~
and stop smoking for her, when she had never done
any thing for him; and then she talked so beautifully
about the sanctity of single-blessedness" and cQnvent
shades, and dwelt so tenderly on the skinless life of
prayer and meditation before her, that Hal was, at the
end, almost ready to emulate the knight of old, who
built a hermit's cell under the windows of the convent
in which his lady love had, in a moment of despair,
yowed t~ liv~ her earthly life,
~' I~ doesn't seem t~ i~e to-day~" 'Hal 0onftdentially

informed me, "it doesn't seem to me to-day near so
much like a sacrifice as it did yesterday. I believe
now I could stand. seeing her face at the other end of
the table, day af1~er day, year in and year out, and I'd
almost like, 'pon honor I would, to see her fooling
with a big-headed baby in long dresses. Hang it! I
am not the first man that's said I'd never marry, and
then went and did it, am I Georgie? And I've held
out longer than a great many others. I couldn't tell
you half of the right down pretty girls that I have
disappointed. I wish you'd tell. Mary about that
smashiMg French widow; you saw all that yourself at
the Springs, and you know I never encouraged her at
all. Then there was Lottie Jane, with a big fortune
in her own right, and expectations~ditto, I might have
had either of them as easy as winking; supposing you
tell Mary so. . I don't think she appreciates what she's
throwing away."
"Leave it to me to teach her; don't say any thing
yourself about other ladies to her. I'll do what I can
for you, Hal; but, after all, how can I be sure that
you will be in the same mind a year from now? I
should not be 'overmuch pleased after winning her for
you, to find you were running off on some other track."
"I vow, cousin, I'm in earnest this time, and I'll
stick to 'x~hat I say, if I die for it. Oh, de~r!"
"Will you help me, Hal? will you work With all
your might and main for her?"

x
i


A STO1~Y OF OUI~ civn~ w&amp;1~.           29

*28                AT ANCHO-R:

"You may bet your money on that."
"Then Hal begin; when Mary comes down stairs
she must find you in a state of melancholy, from which
you must make spasmodic efforts to arouse yourself;
you must be rather distant to her
"And flirt with Emma Lewis?"
"No-no-that would never do; Mary's kind
heart would suffer nothing if she saw you seemingly
contented with anybody else."
"How can I ever do the melancholy?"
"You do. feel badly, don't you, Hal? You do think
it a thousand pities that a pretty girl, with th. sweet-
est eyes in the world, should go and bury herself in a
convent just when a handsome fellow like my cousin
Hal is all ready to throw himself at her feet?"
"Yes, of course I do, and I told her so ~ or some-
~thhig like it."
"Didn't she melt at that?"
"Oh, no, not in the least; she threw the Bible at
my head; that is, she quoted Mary and Martha; that
dished me at once. She said marriage was good for
some-"
"Oh, she did? Very condescending on her part
I must ~
"I don't 'think you'll be a nun---eh Ooz?"
"I don't think I shall."
"I wish you'd coax Mary to think like you.
Now, you know, I don't claim to be a saint my.

seig and I must say it don't seem just the thing.
I a'nt sentimental, but 'pon my honor Ido think a
nice little wife is about as good a passport to paradise
as a man can have. Jack and I used to say that, if it
wasn't for the expense, matrimony was the best school
of reform; and sometimes, when we've been to see
some of. the fellows that have gone into that blessed
state, I'll be hanged if we haven't felt like dashing the
expense. I can't talk much, but you know what. I
mean, and that's more than I can say for most women.
If I'd had a sister like you,,I believe I'd been some-
thing, I do positively. Now, if I could talk like you,
cousin Oeorgie, I know I could bring Mary to my
way of thinking; but I can't, and there it is."
"'Faint heart never won fair lady,' Hal. I'd
rather Mary would marry the greatest goose in the
World than go into a convent, so you may be sure I
will help you."


A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAB.       81

CHAPTER III.
"WHAT a bore this world is," half yawned, half'
growled Hal, as the end of the week satisfied him that
his 'sacrifice' was not to be accepted.. "What ~ bore
this woi'ld is, especially the part they call the country."
"Which seems to be the unanimous opinion of the
company," Kate sftid, after a pause which brought no
contradiction to Hal's assertion. "What is the matter
with everybody? Mr. Stuart, you look as blue as a
church mouse, what ails you?"
"Nothing, I assure you; I was never in better
spirits in my life."
"And Georgie never in Worse; what dose it all
mean? Is it because Mr. Aberthnay is going away
to-morrow?"
I don't know which said "no," with the least
truth, Gilbert or I.
"'A penny for your thoughts,' Mr. Aberthnay,"
Kate continued; "speak your mind and receive your
reward," and she displayed a shining "one cent"
piece.

"My thoughts, Miss Kate? Not worth a penny,
far less your kind interest."
"Oh, then I am sure you were thinking of some-
thing you would not like me to know; you Southexn-
ers do not rate your thoughts so cheaRly."
"Poor as my thoughts are, Miss Kate, I'll take
your penny; never yet did a Northerner fail to get
the best of' a bargain with one of us, rate we ourselves
ever so highly. I was thinking, then, that to-morrow
I must up and away-to see you all again,. who can
say when? i was wondering, too, where all this
pleasant company would be this time twelve months!
There was more sadness in the wonder than you think,
Miss Kate. Have I earned my penny?"
"Twice over," she answered readily. "Well, I
for one expect to be immured in solemn Salem walls,
unless Uncle Tom sends for me, in which happy
event I shall probably be here-giving away pen-
nies to make moody young gentlemen agreeable;
who knows?"
"And I, ditto, or something not much better,"
said Hal, "unless I emigrate to China, Australia,
Jersey, or the Fejee Islands, as I am sorely tempted
sometimes. This is such a dull world. Say, Carl,
can't you get up a nigger row down South to give us
some excitement?"
"Keep your energies, Friend Hal, for something
more than a 'nigger row.' Hermetically sealed they


32                ATA rcnoZ~:
won't spoil, and, perhaps, will pay for the keeping," t
Mr. Abertlinay replied.
Kate made a comical face. "I question that," she
said. "What can he ever do with them, unless in
domestic spars; and Hal is always going to be an old
bachelor, ain't you Hal ?"
Hal looked dolefully at Mary, but answered not.
"Even so," said Mr. Aberthnay. "Ours is a glori-
ous Union. You at the North are the hard-fisted,
strong-minded, close-handed husband; we of the
South, the impulsive warm-hearted wife ;-here's
chance for domestic spars, even for old bachelors
like Hal."
"We have heard of these things before," remarked
a visitor, "and have learned to appreciate them.~"'
"You do not appreciate them~" Mr. Aberthnay
answered hotly, "or you would know better than to
sneer at them. Some day you will appreciate them."
* "Pray keep your politics for your after dinner
cigars," I said,' rising. "Let us have a walk in the
garden."
Mr. Abertlinay was the first to accept the invita-
tion, and we together led the way. Finding even the
porch cooler than I expected, I returned alone for a
shawl. I found quite a group around Kate.
"Hang these officers," one said with more empha~
sis than politeness, "they give theniselves so many
airs;                    -

3

".1 hate Southerner~," said Kate, to humor the
spirit of the company~ "they are too conceited for any
thing."            I
I lingered to hear Gilbert answer: "You should
except Mr. Aberthnay,. he is perfectly unassuming
and unselfish'; how could he have said less?"
Years after Gilbert Stuart owed his life to those
simple words. I oiily thought, hearing them, that he
did not care enough to be even jealous, for there was
no superhuman virtue shielding a rival in that cahu,
voice, I thought.
"Mr. Aberthnay must feel almost a, stranger
among us," I said, as I returned with my 'shawl, "and
since he~ has been ordered to our part of the country
has done all in his power to please us all. We ought
not to visit the sins of his country upon one who has
so few of his own."
I dkl not look at Gilbert, but passed on to the
porch. where Mr. Aberthnay awaited me. I had
spoken incautiously loud, and I saw at once that he
had heard me. He drew my hand over his arm.
" It is such words as those, it is such women as you,
that piece the ~broken links," he said, rapidly; "that
bind us firmer together than all the parchment scrolls
on earth! Something more than pollt~cal cords,
something more than even ~ocial bands must be broken /
I
first, our very heart strings must be torn apart, before
it can be done!"
2*

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.


84

I looked at him in surprise.
"YOU do not 'believe it," he continued, "no one
does. You laugh at me for an enthusiast, a dreamer,
a mad prophet. There's a cloud above us, a cloud no
larger than your hand; it will cover the sweet blue
sky above us, and flood this fair land with blood t~s
with rain; I tell you it will!"
"How dare you," I cried, tuning to him; "how
dare you, Carlton Aberthnay, in 'the face of this
glorious night, through whose gleaming you can see
the proud strength of Bunker Hill and Fanuell Hall,
tell me they will ever be less yours than mine? In the
Lace of these brave forests, no stronger, no firmer than
the hearts that guard them; in the face of these fields
of plenty tilled by the brawny arms that will never
shame their toil, how dare you tell me they will ever
* be needed for less peaceful labor? You stand in 'the
very home of Freedom, and talk of danger to its 'loved
and cherished land!"
"~Yes, I talkof danger to that very land, for fair
as it seems it is black with crime. Think of it, Miss
Vane, I do not say as I see it, a soulless despotism,
but as you see it every day-a land of extravagance,
of social luxury, of utter' political rottenness and cor~
eruption, and tell me 'what but a miracle can save its
pillars from crumbling to dust, and its proud temple
from falling to the earth a mass of blackened ruins.
"Then the miracle will come, for God holds us in

AT Awonon :

His hand, preparing us for humanity's greatest mission.
It is' ours; it has been decreed ours from all eternity;
it is ours, we claim it, we will have it, and. fulfil it.
God never built us up so nobly, to cut us down so
soon. -
"Not as we are now. From our ruins shall arise
the nation of which all mankind have dreamt. The
veritable land of promise.~,
"Not from our country's ruins; but from the ashes
of the brand of evil in our midst. Burn out that vile
outrage on humanity, and we are purified. Now we
are not worthy to think of our mission."
"You are an abolitionist, I see.~~
"I am a human being, and must needs share the
degradation of my kind. Their tears cry to heaven
for vengeance, and justice demands tears for tears,
blood for blood."
There was a long silence.
"Always met with that," he said, at last. "Be~
cause that is beyond our power to change. -Is it
always to be so? Is life always to be a helpless
struggle? Are we always' to be seeking a glorious
haven, and forever dash our heads against the
rocks?"
"God knows," I answered, thinking just then of
my own. life; of the years passed in security floating
with the current, and now, the sudden breakers.
"Always met with that," he went on. "Oh, why

34               AT ANCHOR:                                            A STORY OF OUR CIvIL WAR.      35.

35


38

AT ANCHOR:

was that curse. ever fastened upon our land, our bright,
glorious Southern land; ~ur land of plenty, of romance,
a~,~and loveliness! ,There is no other land that can
compare with it.. God speed the day when~ it shall
take its ~rightful place among the nations of the earth.
It will come, but its way will be strewn with broken
hearts instead of roses. You will think of that some-
times, will you not, Georgi~, while I think of your
kind words in there,? You will, will you not?"
"I do not more than halfknow what you are talk~
ing about," I said. "I know it 'sounds somewhat
harsh, after all that you have been saying so poetically,
to confess my ignorance, but tell me what it all
means."
"It means nothing or it means every thing," he
answered, excitedly; "and it means besides, that-"
It is useless to repeat the rest. To save him, per-
haps myself; I turned away as if in anger.
They had 'nearly all returned to the parlor; as I
passed by the open windows I saw Kate and Mr. Stuart'
standing by themselves away from the others; she
arrangiig some flowers in her hair, and hebend.
ing down to assist her. I looked back, I could just
see the dark outline of a figure leaning against the
fou!ltain in the~garden.' I went back, and gave him
my forgiveness-nothing more; had I looked twice at
the tableau in the parlor it might have been more,
but I did not look.

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.         Y7
Mr. Abertlinay sprang from 'his place, and pressed
my hands to his lips. "I thank you a thousand times
even for this," he said, with his Southern impetuosity.
"I shall never forget it."
I did not see him after that.
I was glad to reach my room after the tedioi~s re-
mainder of the evening was over. I had to be alone
by myself; or, at least, away from Mr. Stuart and Kate,
to fortify myself; to assure myself that I had done
right.
How he loved me! ~~Of course I had known it all
this time. I had felt it every day; revelled in it as a
slight revenge for Gilbert's wound; had sought it,'
when Gilbert's coldness had been more titan I could
hear; and now I had thrown it away. Was it right?
Was it right? How h~ loved me! II.~w his face had
grown radiant in my presence ! I had seeti it day after
day, and contrasted it with Gilbert's cold, calm de-
,nieanor. How eagerly he had sprung to meet me! I
had listened for his quick step, day after day, and
each time thought of Gilbert's slow, steady walk.
How he loved me! I might kneel in vain to Gilbert.
One word would bring him to me, to be forever
mine.
- I tried to write that word, but proud, vain girl
though I was, I was still woman enough to try invain.
"I will go and talk to some of the girls to put this
thing out of my head," I said to myself, and turned


toward Kate's room; but how could I hope to conquer
myself with~' her against me? I was not good enough
to hear Mary's eager hopes, so I went to~ Emma's
room. It was very seldom I ever did so, for until
lately-perliaps the change was my fault-Emma had
always come to me.
"It is I, Emma," I said, not waiting for my knock
to be answered. "May I come in?"
There was no reply, the room was quite dark; for
a moment I was almost frightened, the next I thought
that the silly girl was probably in some cozy corner
dreaming of her lover over the seas, as we always
called~ him.
I lighted the gas~ with careless freedom, and, as I
anticipated, quickly discovered Emma sitting by the
window with her head on her arms.
"Dreaming, awake or asleep," I asked, raising her
head.
A tearful face tried to hide itself from me.
"Tears!" I exclaimed, preparing myself for the
story of some lover's quarrel. How small, how child-
ish seemed all other griefs compared td mine! "What
has gone wrong now ? What right has anybody in
this house to cry away from me. What is it?"
"I cannot tell you, I can never tell any one.
Please Vut out the light; I don't want it."
I put it out, aud drew Emma nearer to nie, and, by
and by, she told me her "little tale."

"I have been deceiving you. all the time," she said.
"I have let you believe all about that man you
thought I cared for, but it was not true; I do not care
for him.~~
"But you care for somebody; everybody cares for
somebody?"
"Everybody? Then you 'do; tell me is it~-"
"After you, my love."
"It is so silly; so like every thing else; just like a
hundred stories; how I went around and saw so many
people, and fancied one here, and one there; and said
things that I did not mean, and had them misunder-
stood; and said things in fun, and had them taken in
earnest; until one day, oh! such a lovely, beautiful
day, when my mind was all full of other things, I was
taken into a room full of company, and as 'many as a
dozen gentlemen were all introduced to me at once,
and I just bowed to them all, and was tired and wished
them all gone, when one said something that made
me look up to his facs~, and-now I know~ you are
going to laugh-but it is true, just as we read in
books, and never believe, I felt some one say, that is,
as plainly as if some one whispered it to me, 'It is all
over now-you must love him always.' But I can't
put it into words. I did not think much about it then;
I accepted the conviction. He~ seemed to understand
it; so did everybody else, and no one interfered with
us. Oh! how I should love to tell yott all about those

38               AT A~CHOB:                                              A STORr 0J3' OUR CIVIL WAR.      39.

&amp;8

89

AT ANCHOR i


40               AT ANCHOR:                                          A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.     41

blessed days, I remember every hour of them. But it
would tire you.
I protested against this, but she was firm. "I did
not want to tell anybody while every thing went on
well, but it seems to me that I should believe it all if 1
talked too much about it. I never coquetted with
him; perhaps it would be better now if I had. I was
too truthful, too trustful; men never love you half so
well as when. you are indifferent to them."
I almost thought so too.
"I was too happy, too secure; I did not suppose
any thing could happen, but something did. He
would not listen to me, or when he did, in so cold
and incredulous a way that I could not justify myself;
and, after all, I had done nothing wrong."
"How .long ago was this?"
"Oh, long ago-about two. years."
"V Tell, and then?"
"I ought to marry somebody else, oughtn't I,
Georgie?~ You know whom I mean. Of course he
dees Dot love me now."
"Of course not. Do you suppose if a man loved
yau he could leave you two months, not to say two
years, in doubt?"
"I don't suppose he could. But I know if I shouki
ever meet him again, it would all be as it was. I
keep turning this over and over in my mind until I
am half Wild. I have argued it from every point of
view; and what to do I cannot say."

"You have no right to marry any man feeling so,"
I answered decidedly. It is so easy to decide for
another.
"But I might love him ~afterwards ? '.'
"It is too great a risk."
"But I am afraid that, in my foolish despair, I
have made it too late."
"You are not married; it is never too late until
then."
"And then, Georgie, what do you suppose women
do?"
"Die; or pray to," I answered, in my old way.
"It is not too late yet?"
"No; but you have no time for hesitation."
It is go easy to be strong for others.
She relit the gas, and wrote a short note, which she
handed me to read. It was a decided refusal.
"After all, I feel relieved," she said, sealing it
slowly, "and shall be more so when it is out of my
power to recall this answer. - But it is hard; am I
right to stand by that which may be only a delusion,
and sacrifice half 'my life for it? Who knows?"
After a silence she said:
"I never doubted your fate, Georgie, until that
night ~you told me you thought Mr. Stuart was en-
gaged to Kate. Now, I do not know what to think,
only that it does not seem so to me. 21 know Mr.
Stuart is not quite so fascinating, and rich, and pol.

*1


42               AT ANCHOR~:                                          A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      43

ished as a certain somebody not a thousand miles
away, but I never imagined wealth, station, or mere
accomplishments, would weigh a feather in the bal-
ance with you!"
"Of themselves, never," I replied. "I do not care
one iota for wealth or station, but I Jo' care for the
mind that commands position. I do care for the spirit
and the enterprise that walks boldly up and claims its
own from the world. I do not believe these things
are mere accidents, or the reward of' impudence. Fate
and. Fortune are not so blind as ,they are represented.
Now, I do not think any. combination of circumstances
could make a great man of Gilbert Stuart ; it is not
in him to be more than he is: calm, generous, and re-
liable, always trusted, always respected; never a
I
leader."
*" Who would be a leader if such qualities did not
make him such? Who would be a crazy enthusiast,
mad on one idea, whirled along to-day in a triumphal
car by an excited populace, and thrown in the street
to-marrow to make way for some equally mad succes-
sor~? Not I, indeed. No, give me the man of even
mind, of practical thought, quiet, calm, reliable; for,
after all, he is the real leader. What a man to trust
to, to live for, to die for! Why, Georgie, if such a
one loved m~, I should worship the very earth that
held him, and you do not?"
"I do!" almost burst from my l4ps, but I answer~

ed indifferently. "I am not given the 'choice. Well
for me that I am not, perhaps, for all women are fools,
when it comes to that. I should be false to all that is
strongest and best in myself if I did ~not seize, at all
hazards, the place where my work would be the hard-
est and greatest.-"
"You talk all sides, Georgie," interrupted Emma.
"You would have me sacrifice life for love, and throw
love to the winds yourself. How often have you said
'the marriage rite is woman's best right?'"
"For other people."
" For you, and me, and everybody. There isn't any
one to hear us; I will even put out~the light if you wish,
so that we may not see each the other's foolish face as
we confess that the world, with all its pomp and show,
its wild and thrilling romance, its power and luxury,
its grandeur and beauty, has no life to rival the life
of a loved and loving wife; say it, GeQrgie."
"The power and the luxury, the grandeur and
beauty, the romance, the pomp and show, we all of' us
know more or less about--have all seen something
which was real and tangible in them; but who ever
saw a loved and loving wife?"
"Don't. be ridiculous, Georgie."
"Grant that such a thing can be, is it not, after all,
a refinement of selfishness, the life she leads? Is it
any merit if she secures her husband's comfoi% and
happiness at every cost, since securing his is securing


44              AT ANCHOR:                                           A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.     45

heroin? She makes no sacrifices, she has no sorrows;
what seem such are merely small prices that she pays
for immense joys. ]3iit for her who denies self; who
throws every gratification beneath her feet, how infi-
nitely holier the destiny!"
"Then you justify Mary?"
"No, it must be done for some work,~' I answered,
confusedly; for, truth to tell, I was arguing down
myself; not Emma, and was venturing on unknown
ground, "some work that puts her talent out to inter-
est."
Aud all this to prove that you. are right in ~acri-
ficing one of the beet and most generous of men to
your ambition! It just amounts to. that."
"If by one of the be.~t and most generous of men
you mean Mr. Gilbert St~iart, permit me to inform
you that it is not, and never has been in. my power to
have the slightest influence on his destiny, 6ne way
or the other."
"I never thought you so unreasonable," Emma
said. "You know the man loves you; everybody
knows that. Only yesterday your jewel of 2a house~
keeper, Mrs. Glynn, gave .me a glowing account of the
way in which she and your uncle would marry you
oft; and could not tell me enough of the charming gen-
erosity with which you recognized true worth-that
is, Gillert Stuart-and was undazzled by outside gilt.
ter-that is, Carlton Aberthnay."

* "Mrs. Glynn was very impertinent," I replied,
quickly, "and I would thank you, Emma, not to dis-
cuss my affairs with my uncle's housekeeper.~~
"Now, wherein have I offended your ladyship~?"
Emma cried, quite undaunted by nay remark, the hard-
est that had ever passed my lips. "It can't be Carl-
ton-"
"Why not?" I asked, haughtily, and asked with-
out knowing why. "Why not Mr. Aberthnay ?."
"There! Now, I see it all! Oh, Georgie, I
thought you the truest, bravest, and sincerest woman
in the world! So fall our idols at every step! You
a flirt, a coquette, like all the rest! just as ready to
throw aside a brave, true heart, for a heavier purse, as
any of the rest! Where is your cousin Florence?~ II
will make her my next idol; she fights under no false
colors, at least. Just like all the rest, Georgie; so
strong and brave for me, so weak and ambitious for
yourself! '~
So she drew awa~r from me, and judged me with
her half knowl4ge.
Who drew away from him, who blamed him when
he wrung my heart with his deception ~ Who blamed
him when he came in his manly strength and vigor to
poison my fresh, young life? Who blamed him when
he sought, in deliberate cruelty, the wild, devoted love
for which he could not return even the semblance?
Who blamed him when I. writhed in my anguish in


46                AT A TCHOR

the solitude of the night, while he played with the
roses in ~my garden?
Who blamed him? Who dared? Close in my
hearV I held his secret; those who would not let the
winds of heaven blow too roughly against my cheek
loaded him with honor. So it should be. Till I died
no one should know of his wrong to me, say what
they would of me.
"Come," I said, "come and see if Mary is better
contented than the rest of us."
We entered her room softly. She was sleeping
sweetly; the rosary she held in her hand under her
head. had gently indented her rosy cheek, fair and soft
as that of an infant's.
"She must be dreaming of angels," Emma whis~
pered.
"While we have spent our thoughts on men," I
added, ashamed of myself. "Who knows, Emma-it
seems almost wicked to question it-who knows but,
after all, Mary has chosen the better part?"
~" Who knows?" Emma echoed; and her eyes, as
they turned from Mary to me, had a look in them that
haunts me still.~

CHAPTER IV.
"WHY did you eyer let that handsome young sob
dier off without warning me?" my, aunt Graham said
to me the next morning, when it became fairly under-
stood that half of the officers, among them Mr. Ab-
erthnay, who had enlivened our little town for the past
two years, had been ordered away. "Why did you
not let me know?"
"I. was not aware such an item would especially
interest you," I answered.
"Really? You are very short-sighted, I must say.
But I won't scold you; I have had enough of that
with Florence."
"What has Florence been doing?" asked my un*
cle. "Not flirting with our 'handsome young sob
dier,' I hope, because I shall, then, have to scold too."
"My daughter never flirts," Mrs. Graham answer-
ed. "In truth, I almost wish she would, occasionally.
She is too indifferent to please my fancy. I was just
saying to her that she has treated Mr. Abervhnay
very unkindly."


A STORY O1~' OUI~ CIVIL WAR.

I felt my eyes were dangerous, and looked out of
the Window. What strange fate was it that made me
always Mr. Abertlinay's champion? Was. it ~merely
contempt for Florence and pride in myself that made
me angry that her name should-be mentioned in con-
nection with on~ who was so much my friend?
"Very unkindly," Mrs. 'Graham rattled on. "Al-
though Florence is the gentlest creature, atid the most
artless in the world. At least, I think so; for Mi'.
Abertlinay seems' to me a v~ry superior young gen-
tleman, and it has pained me very much that Fbi'-
"That Florence, what?" I asked, turning suddenly,
as she made a pause-a pause which said more than
words.
My aunt played with the tassel of her morning
dress and smiled.
"You are in a very bad humor this morning, Cou-
sin Georgie."
"What were you going to say about Florence and
Mr. Aberthnay?" I asked, not noticing her opiniQn of
my humor.
"About Florence and Mr. Aberthnay?" she re-
peated. "What have I to say about them? I have
always made it a point never to influence my children
in any way, not even by a look; and whatever I might
have wished, I give it up cheerfully, believing it to be~
all for the best."

Of course I did not believe one word of her insinu-
ations; but Florence was one of my aversions, and
every thing her mother said angered me.
"So, Florence would not see Mr. Abertlinay with
your eyes," I said, at last. "A thousand pities I Sup-
josing Mr. Aberthnay should shoot himself; or do
some horrible thing, how dreadful it would be!"
"Are you two women going to fight?" Uncld~ Tom
said, looking from one to the other with comical be-
wilderment. "Because, 'pon honor, I can't. allow
it."    /
"Georgie is oi~iy a-little out of humor this morn-
ing," my aunt answered. "She cannot help her na-
ture, you know. I do not know' but I rather like her'~
little tempers; they are amusiiig.- Florence, you
know, never changes: she is always the same sweet-
tempered child. I often wish she was not so much so.
But I'll leave you, Georgie, to find your smiles again.
Bye-bye."
As she went out she dropped a letter from her lap
'on the floor, but passed on without~ noticing it. Uncle
Tom picked it up and threw it carelessly into my
work-basket. I would no more have touched it than
if it had been burning coal, but I could not help see-
ing that it was addressed to Florence, and was in ~~,
Aberthnay's writing.
"What'! another!', I thought; ~n4 re~nemberiug
hot last words, her comparison l~etw~eii Floro~ic~ ~i4

I

48

AT ANCHOR:

49


AT ANC0HO

me, I knew she was not satisfied yet, would not be
saLisfied until she had taken my all.
"What did she mean, Georgie?" Uncle Tom ask-
ed, after nearly fifteen minutes' silence, and throwing
down his paper with a tired gesture.
"She wants to take every thing from me; she
wants to turn everybody against me. Against me,
be~ahse I am fatherless, motherless, and-"
* My uncle was not given to sentiment. He laid his
hand on my mouth to stop me, then took me tenderly
in his aZ~ins.
"Your Cather neglected your mother," he said;
"left her, night after night, and day after day, with-
out a friend or a comforter; and when I interpreted
her silence as pride, and begged her to accept my sym-
pathy as that of a brother, he piled insult on insult
upon her glorious young head, until she fled from him
in' terror, and the morning found her dead. Your fa-
ther has never asked for you from that day to this.
To whom do you beloDg most, eh? Whom would
your mother trust you with if not with me? And do
you think you can ever get away from me? Try it 1'
l2hat is all."

CHAPTER V.
SLOWLY the long summer came to an end. Our
boats rocked idly on the river, which the falling leaves
were already choking; our horses neighed unheeded
in the stables, our voices echoed dully in the parlQrs,
for our guests had departed; not all the splendor of a
~ew England autumn could enliven our lonely house,
and I knew not how.to face the sadness of the cold
but gorgeous sunsets, so mournful even when our
souls are at rest.
"Uncle," I said, "let us follow the birds."
"Aha!" he exclaimed; "set my Georgie's thoughts
in that quarter? Veiily, a few days more in this
deserted house and I shall learn all her secrets."
"Let us have no secrets, uncle, no thoughts, no
cares, no feelings; let us leave them as the birds have
left their nests, once loved now forgotten. Let us
lead a gay, sans 8QUC~ life, until the sentimental summer
brings us new thoughts and feelings."
'KNew cares and new secrets too, oh? Why, child,
I thought no life was gay to you, except. that of your
books, your music, and y9ur i'ides."

I,

'50

b


AT ANCHOR:                                         A STORY OP &amp;UR 0IflL WAR.

"When Iwas a child you know, uncle. I waiit to
be a young lady fbr the little time that is left me
before I settle down to spinsterhood. I want you to
buy me a iuew Saratoga trunk and fill it with hand-
some things, and-9'
"For a season..
"Let us be merry before we go.
"Want to empty this, do you?" holding before my
eyes his well-filled pocket-book. "Want to empty
this, do you, you young extravaga7~Za? That's the
way witif you women!"
"That ~ is our mission, Uncle Tom. If I have
hitherto neglected fulfilling it I herebypromise ~niend~
inenteertain that you need never complain of me in
"Beauty unadorned-" began my uncle.
"flelougs to a past era," I interrupted. "Am I
good lookhg, uncle ? '~
"'ron honor, really, you embarrass me. Well-
now-'pOn honor, can't say ji was ever in such a fix
* before. AU women are handsome."
* "But in different degrees; what is mine ?"
'~ll really you are hard upon me, not but what
I've done such a thing as tell a lady she was pretty.
In my younger days I might Jiave~ staved off your
questionwith ~ o~inplix~ieut, nowi leave it to younger
.1~4s~Vwhat do thqoung men tell you?"
"Nonianliving ever4aredp~&amp;ktOmeOf~IOQ~!"

"No ,oi~e ever told you you were handsome?"
"Of course not."
"Then you may be certain that YOU are."
"I don't want that kind of certainty, I want your
candid, itubiassed opinion; I suppose you are a judge?"
"Thank you, dear, I believe I am; Jack used to
say I could tell a pretty girl as far off aslcould see a
church spire."
"I am notpreuy, I know that."
"And as for the other-~-let me see," and he put on
the eye-glasses he never wore before any one except
me, whose discretion he knew. "'1'on hox~or, Cousin
Georgie, I never knew before what a dashed fine look-
ing woman you are! But how is this--the last time I.
looked at you you were a red-cheeked, round-faced
lassie; where have the roses gone?"
"The summer has passed," I said, so mournfully
that my own voice startled me. "So your judgmez~t
may be considered favorable?"
"In. the highest degree."
"May I ask ~ou one question more? What is ihe
first duty of a handsome woman?"
"Ahem! Upou my Jionor, I am again embar-
rassed. The first duty of a handsome woman i~--to
make the mosti of her beauty"
"By-?"
"By dressi~ig, dancing,, ~irLing, and ~akngfoola
of her natural enemy, .mankind~"


54               AT A~~~IOR:                                              A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAIL~      55

"Put that down in your note book. You say I am
a handsome woman whose duty is fo flirt, dress, dance,
and fool mankind; it is your duty, as you stood
sponsor for me, to see that I perform my duty~"
"Bless me! What a logical mind it has!"
":N7ow, once more, uncle, do you know how old I
am?"
"'Pon honor no! Never knew a lady's age in all
my life; never knew, she had one.~~*
"' In society of course not, but just privately, be-
tween ourselves, I have an age; do you know it?"
"Impossible!"
"Guess."
'~ More impossible."
"Calculate."
"Most impossible."
~ 'Think."
"I can't!"
"Then I must tell you,-I am twenty-one."
"Bless me! How shocking! Have you no respect
for my nerves? Twenty0eight-~--"
"Twenty-on~e."
"Which means five years more."
Not in my case."
"Well, as you say; never contradict a lady. Is it
a fair question to ask how long' you have been twenty-
one?"
"Long, enough to learn I can be twenty-one only a

month or two more; long enough to know I ought to
be flulfilling my mission."
"Oh, indisputably."
"Then when do we begin?"
"Does that apply to me, or to my pocket-book?"
"To both."
"Then, at once, what can the former do?"
"Escort me after the birds, as I said."
"The birds are sorely scattered, and the Eagle
'Clasps the crag with hoQk6d hands,
Close to the sun in eo~dkor~ lands.'
In a Louisiana fort, I believe,"
I did not especially fancy this, my uncle's distant
allusion to Mr. Abertlinay, who was my~ uncle's
favorite of all young gentlemen who visited us; so I
answered quickly:
"Who cares for eagles, uncle, save the respectable
bird that upholds our national honor? ".
"Well, then, whither shall we wing our flight ?"'
"Wherever the harvest of heartlessness is the
plentiest."
"I don't like this," he said, changing his tone; "we
have carried the jest far enough. I believe there is
something 'wrong under itY
I left my seat, and going to him, said: , "'Look at
me, Uncle Vane, is there a line in my face, a shade,
even, that speaks of folly, wrong, or deceit beneath?"

N


A STORY 01~' QUR CIVIL WAR.     57

58                AT 4NC~[OR:

"Bless you, child, no! no! Don't I know it?
Can I not read it as plainly as if in a book? Earnest,
truthful, high-toned, and c6nscientious. Do not ask
me, did I not know your mother?"
"Then for her sake trust me. Take me with you
to some of our~large cities, anywhere where the world
is in motion. Let me make the most of my few gifts,
and gladden your old heart by my success."
"My 'old heart P faith, Miss Vane, you are peculiar
in your choice of adjectives. The heart may be older
m the breast of a girl young as you, than in that of a
man of twice my years."
"And it is, uncle," I murmured; and then dis-
t~nctly," I judged. by the good it has done, not the
years it has lived."
"There! there! Very well put! very well put!
But what was that you said first?"
"One word, Uncle Tom; no answer, no. comment:
mine is like Nipbe, turned to stone."
"By overmuch ~weeping,? I admire your good
sense, Georgie, in keeping your tears there; they
would have ruined your eyes.
"Thazik you. Where are we to spend the winter?"
"Where ever you will. Washington is dull, al-
ways dull to me, but I think you would like it. I
wish we had an intriguing, diplomatic, courtly capital;
there Would be your element. Let us try a little of
New York first."

"So be it, and I will commence 'my shopping at
once. Give me lots of m~ney, uncle, it may be my
last effort; let me go gorgeously through it."
"Insatiable girl! You will ruin some poor fellow
yet, by your extravagance."
"Woman's mission," I answered; as he gave me a
roll of bills. "I should not wonder if I had found the
real solution of that grand problem Wi~mcrn'e 4~igkts.,
Thank you, Uncle Tom."
"Will it soften-" he began.
"Hush!" I said, and left him.
3*

)

)

1 -


A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      59

CHAPTER Vt

WHO glories 'not in the activity of real city life!
The never-resting' crowd, pushing, jostling, pressing,
hurrying each for his own particular goal; what life
can be called life beside it? How the sluggish blood
starts up and tingles through our vein8! How the
languid nerves spring into action, as we mingle with
our kind, straining like them, for power, wealth,
fame, and happiness, each man for his owa idol! I
Love the sweet; green fields, the far, blue sky, the
dark, forest crowned hills, the n~urmuring brooks, the
gushing rivers; but I revel in the noisy, rattling,
stirring town, where God's last, best works are living.
out their lives together.
I felt my life renewed, even as the pent-up city
denizen ienews his in the summer vacation. I
retur~ied home, from those few days' shopping, strong.
er, braver than I had been for months before; I
could even think of meeting Florence, and my old
enemy, my aunt Graham, with equanimity. A trial.
which 'I was, however, spared, for they had flown off
to the South for the winter arid 'spring.

I remember ver~r well the night previous to our
departure. I came down to our cozy little sitting-
room, which was the favorite of all our lower rooms,
in my travelling dress, alone, and with that peculiar
feeling one has after locking drawers and packing
trunks. My uncle Tom was in his library, deep in his
papers, and giving, directions to everybody for the
care of the 'house in his absence; a thorough old maid
in this was my dear uncle Tom. A long dreary No-
vember storm had desolated the streets of ~ur never
very lively little village, and fearing no intrusion I
wandered around the room in a listless way, a little
softened by~ the loneliness of the once gay household.
Old memories came creeping to me, as I sat, down,
at lasting the firelight; little speeches, isolated sen-
tences, pleasant meetings, tearful partings, quiet
evenings, an4 dashing parties; little things, but full
of meaning to me. Round school-girl faces, even now,
some of them elongated to suit the dignity of mar4ed
life; some dead, all scattered! What hopeful projects
we had planned, wha~t blushing tales confessed, sit-
ting around that now lonely fireplace! .They soften-
ed me, hardened as I had 'made myself since then, and
finally, yielding to their influence, I knelt down in
the red, light, sighing my requiem over my lost
girlhood.
A step at the door startled me. I arose~ quickly,
and advanced to meet my visitor. It was rGUb~i't,

)


80               ATA~TCII0R                                           A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAll.      01

just out of the rain and 4ark; I could not help 'a little
start of surprise.
"I felt as if I should d6 something desperate if I
stayed at home another day,'? he said, l~alf answering
that. stai~t. "These rains are stupid. I find I cannot
see Mr. Vane 'quite yet?"
"2N'o," I said, '"he has laid us under orders not to*
venture near him for two hours to come."
He took the' chair I offered hhn, and leaned cheer-
fully toward the fire. He had made us but few calls
since the summer and Kate had left us, but it had
made no difference in his manner, which was still that
'of an old friend and favored guest, only that now he
seemed to avoid the large chair always placed near
my little work table, which had formerly been his
usual seat.
He would not let me light the' gas, preferring the
softened light from the hail, he said, and said with the
same apparent confidence in my consent with which
he would have made the request a year before.' I
would have resisted, but he turned his eyes undaunt-
edly toward me, with manlike consciousness of
power, scattering my frail defenses like chaff before
the wind, and I yielded with' what grace 'I could, and
essaying a half indifferent, careless glance, I took my
usual seat bythe table; 'but under his fearless eyes,'
though I brought all my strength to aid me in the
contest, mine wavered and fell.

I could not help itI struggled hard, but his eyes
could have led me through fire and death,. with but
half the mingled emotions that were in them then.
What if the past six months could be blott I out, aud
the old times back again! Could I be deenived; in
spite of all did he not love me, had he not always'
loved me? What right then had any other to come
between us?
I heard his voice, some every-day words, but it
was a reason to meet his eyes again, and for the burn.
ing blush and quick-dropping eyes to own him cou~
queror. He knew enough not to proclaim his victory
too soon, not until he had played the vanquished. I
could not help it. What, if years or oceans had
separated us, could~ I refuse, meeting, to those ' dear
eyes? By and by he came to his old place, and'soon,.
my work basket came under contribution for his
amusement, as of old; it did my heart good, though
I made a great show of opposition, to see him clipping
my thread, entangling my silks, twisting my ribbons,
and notching my spools, as he had done so often in
the olden time. I lost not a word he said, not a
sound of his voice; there was no power within me to
remember that miniature, which he, too, seemed~ to
have forgotten.    'S
It seems to me I never sang as I did' that night,
with that one listener, whenever praised, but only
dreainily heard.


62              AT £&amp;CHOR:

next audience will be a fashionable New
'~ York crowd, I suppose," he said, as I turned around
on the piano stool.' "How can you care for any thing
better than this?" glancing around the cozy room.
"Because I want life, action, work. I should
petrify here."
"Do you call dancing, shopping, and having a
'gay winter,' work?"
"There is more than dancing, shopping, and
having a gay time in the city," I answered. "There
is downright' work for every man, woman, and child
there."
"What an amount of energy you have! I could
never dream of going after work, it would be bad
enough to have work come to me."
"Are you not ashamed? You are only half a man
while you talk so."
"It's true, Georgie, I am only half a man, and my
Aaziness is the key to my whole life. I can't get' out
of old ways, I ~can't break through old customs.' I
am not half what I ought to be. I feel all the time
that if I would make one great effort, one firm wrench,
and stand to it, I could do an immense deal; but the
least show of resistance proves too much for me, and I
give up rather than fight the battle."
"Perhaps it wouldn't beso if you had any thing
worth fighting' for," I suggested.
"I have something worth fighting for," he replied,

62

,1

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.        63'
less lightly than before, "which would make me in-.
deed a true and happy soldier to win~ I see others
pressing in, I do not wait to be jostled aside, I move
away, and watch others win the prize that should be
mine."
"You're a good for nothing, lazy fellow," I cried,,
"and you will have to suffer for being so, depend
upon it. And with so much power as you really have
if you only knew, and would use it!"
"Have I power?" he asked with a meaning there
was no mistaking.
"Are you not ashamed to ask that .question,
Gilbert Stuart? Are you indeed devoid of manli-
ness?" I exclaimed indignantly.
"I think I am, Georgie, but I am going to get
righted one of these days. Will you not sing for me
"again?"
"No," I answered coldly, and left my seat.
"Then I shall have to sing for you,". he said, gaily.
"You are very kind," I returned with increased
coldness, and leaned back in my chair. I had never
heard him sing, and did not suppose he could.
"I am afraid I cannot manage an accompaniment,"
he said, after striking several' chords. "Will you not
help me?"
"I beg that you will excuse' me," was all the an.
swer I felt it in my power to give, for I was deeply
hurt.


04           AT ANCHR:

65

"Then I must help myself. Please listen to the
words. It took me a week, nearly, to get them to
jingle."
I did not hear any more for some time, and was
half lost in reverie when a rich, deep voice, broke in,
*or rather mingled with it, singing:
"Your brow is set with woman's pride,
Your eyes refuse a melting smile,
But oh! how check the heart's strong tide,
That rushes wildly all the while?
flow cold are all the words I win!
Mid colder still the tones I loved,
How cahaly pale that once bright cheek
Whose color each new feeling moved!
"I may not even speak of days
O'er which 'I brood with strange delight,
Nor may I ask the simplest grace,
That then seemed mine by true love's right.
But vain is all the world would say,
Torouse perchance my jealous fears,
I bowed not to that gentle heart,
Till I had known its truth for years.
"Ah! do not think I could believe
My darling's heart less true than then!
AU do not think that I could fear,
Her eyes can droop for other men!
Though never in this world again,
Qneofthedearoldlookslwin;
The fault be mine, but to distrust
That constant heart, were.gravest sin.

'I know I've wronged that faithful heart,
Half failed its tender worth top~,
And I to whom they trusted all
Have dimmed with tears those pee$es~ eyes.
Too many are the ways that lead
Our rougher manhood's steps aside,
'Tis thine, sweet eyes, 'tis thine, dear hands,
To virtues paths our steps to guide.
"I cannot speak of all I've seen,
Nor how each gloomy road I've past,
But made thee seem the brighter still,
And led me to thy feet at last.
I cannot speak of all I've erred,
Nor yet of all I fain would be,
But if I gain a place above
I gain it love, dear love, through thee."
"And now," rising, and coming behind me, "hay.
ing completed the measure of my'enormities, I suppose
I must go?"
"Yes, go," I said rising in my turn; "I thought
that measure was completed long ago, but your inven-
tion is wonderful, and I know not how many new
insults you may have in store for me."~
"'Are you serious, Georgie? Make me so, then;
make me forget that we are not boy and girl together
still, and you will be fully avenged."
"I have forgotten that we were ever boy and girl
together. For the future, at least, I am not to be other
than ffi8s Vane to you."

A STORY 011' OUR CIVIL WAR.

e4


66              AT ANCHOR:                                       A STORY OP OUR CIVIL WAR.

I was getting him in earnest, I could see.
"It is useless for me to beg pardon in detail," he
said. "If I ever become wholly a man I will entreat
it all at once."
"With the full expectation of being forgiven!"
"I expect nothing; ~I hope but little; I deserve
your taunt, nevertheless."
He turned slowly from me, irresolute, it seemed to
me.
I was angry enough for any thing then, and I call-
ed him back.
"You have more to say, say it."
"I have more to say, but I cannot. Some time,
perhaps, I shall be serious, earnest, and what I ought
to be, now it makes no difference. I do not suppose
~ou will believe me if I say I would not have offended
you for the world."
I hesitated. a moment.
"You remember what yeu told me one night, last
summer. Did I understand you rightly?"
He bowed.
"It is the same now?"
He bowed again.
"And yet you would have me believe you have a
grain of truth in you!"
That was enough; if he had forgotten it for that
hour, it was only to make him remember it ever after~
wards.

The bright light in the hall shone full on a face
that was pale and full of sadness, as he lingeringly
prepared to leave.
"Good night, Miss Vane," he said looking into the
room, but not at me.
"Oood night, Mr. Stuart."
I could not realize even when the door closed be-
hind him that he would not come back, and explain
all this mystery, and win the forgiveness that was
only for a moment out of his reach. It was harder
still to think, after so many years of trust and faith,
trust and faith that had not died in all the past
month~, that faith and trust had been met, not only.
with indifference but with insults. Even yet, such is
woman's folly, with all my pride I could find excuse
even for that, could believe he meant more than he
could say.
The next day I was to leave; I had seen the last
of him, and hope was over.
And then-Kate!
Did I, therefore, tear him out of my heart? Did I
blush that I had ever yielded him a moment's~ thought?
Did I place hatred and contempt in the place where
he once had reigned?
I was no strong-minded heroine. I was a strong
woman, perhaps, but strong only for others; the merest
schoolgirl, crying over her first love, could shame me,
weeping, de prqf'undis, over mine. I was no strong-


68                AT x~idnoB:

minded heroine: 'I opened the great door softly, and
listened for the echo of his footsteps splashing down the
wet pavement; I found myself gradually leaning farther
out, until the rain fell around me, and on me, listening
still-holding my breath to hear that step once more.
I went in, when I could ~o longer catch even its faint,
far away sound, I went in to the now dull room, late-
ly so brilliant with his presence. I stood by the chair
in which he had sat, by the piano at which he had
sung, with such earnestness and pathos, those strange
words; longing to caress each object which had been
blessed by his touch. I took my basket, just as he
had left it, with its notched spools and twisted rib-
bons, and locked it in the little black cabinet where I
0
kept my letters and journal. I sank down on the floor,
with my head in his and there shrined my life's
young dream in my heart, as a blessed memory, a
glimpse of heaven before the celestial gates closed
upon me; I buried him deep down in my heart, never
to see him, with lovelit eyes, until the appointed day
of LoVe's resurrection.
I might well go to my room that night as from a
great and solemn funeral.

CHAPTER VIL
SOCIETY opened its arms to us, affectionately to
my uncle, cordially to both. Affectionately to my
uncle, for there was not a silver hair among his curly
locks, not a glimmer of frost in his abundant whiskers,
to whisper of the coming winter of his life; for the
which be praised my uncle's own immaculate hair~dye.
And, too, my uncle was trim and lithely made, pre-
serving the happy medium between superabundant
flesh and gout on one side, and leanness and dyspepsia
on the other; for the which be praised my uncle's en-
ergy, and his. great, warm heart.
Joined to these rare advantages of figure and whis.
kersmy uncle had a still handsome pair of clear, dark,
youthful eyes; a massive nose, of the New England
type, which just intimated theke was a rough road,
somewhere that my easy uncle Tom might have trod;
a good voice, excellent taste, and his own teeth; so
that it was not wonderful that in long parlors, and in
crowded halls, Mr. Vane's pt~rson, or Mr. Vanes in~
come-which, by the way, was in an equally flourish-


A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.     '11

'10                    AT A~CH0R ~

*     ing eondition-was the object of admiring eyes innu-
merable.
As for me, though I had none of these latter claims
upon society, there was,, still a prospect of something
from my uncle, the good world thought. There was,
too, a lingering remembrance of a brilliant heiress
who had flitted across the sky of society, meteor-like,
about whom there had been a story, deepened into
mystery as years glided onward and saVr no more of
her, until a daughter came to revive her image, and,
thanks to a wealthy uncle, to raise it above the slan-
derous tongue of envious society. A little mystery is
piquante sometimes.
I ai~ not writing my uncle's biography, or I should
dwell half with amusement, half in disgust, on the~
many incipient courtships of my tender-hearted uncle,
during that gay winter. Incipient courtships, for it
was not in the power of my generous uncle to confine
himself for more than a few evenings to any one pret-
ty face;~ it never had been, hence his bachelorship.
"lown it,"he would say; "what then? Must a
man make himself a boor for the sake of consistency,
*    when his fickleness makes him only the more interest-
ing to' others, and agreeable to himself?"
Just here, in speaking of my uncle, I am remind-
ed-I ca~i hardly say why-.of a dear and honored
friend, whoonce said to me, speaking of a in~itixal ac-
*quaintan~e, "Do you know' the secret of G.'s worldly

prosperity? I will tell you: When he. was about
starting on his worldly career he came to me for ad-
vice. 'My dear young friend,' I said to him, 'lifb and
your profession are not all made of roses, as you will
too soon find. When adversity presses. hard upon
you; when every thing is dark as midnight, without a
glimmer of hope or comfort; when your friends look
coldly upon you, and every thing, in fine, seems driv-
ing you to despair; go then, expend, if need be, your
last dollar, and buy a new pair of light-colored kid
gloves, and put them on."' Therein is a world of
meaning associated always in my mind, spite of the
New England nose, with my uncle Tom.
And .we two lived in the same house, eat at the same
table, walked arm-in-arm, sat side by side, read th~ same
books, and lived our sep Vate lives! So goesthe world!
I cannot understand I those who say thalj sorrow or
disappointment, such as mine, embitters the mind, and
sours it to the World. The power I had for loving;
sent back upon my heart, ran no longer in its deep
but narrow channel; it diffused itself over my whole
nature, becoming* weaker, perhaps, by the diffusion,
mingling, as it did,' with my lighter, less noble, every-
day character; but it made it kinder, more charitable,
more generous to all I met. I did not hope that those
loving tides could ever be gathered together and .~e
cured in their old sweet, unseen bounds. So I lived
for society as best I could.


72               AT ANCHOR;                                        A STORY 'OF OUR CIVIL WAR.

Feel kindly, friendly to humanity, and humanity
rewards you by its efforts to appreciate and become
worthy of your regard It is only the selfish, the use-
less, or the wicked that declaim against the injustice
of mankind. Just it seldom is, for humanity is human;
but it does. its best, and the true man tries in other ways
than angry remonstrance to make that best better.
So I gathered to myself many a heart-offering from
those who surrounded me, and strove here and there
to say a word or two that might fall in the right place.
I, a woman, honor women. I know they are vain,
frivolous, extravagant, and capricious, with a tho~isand
faults beside; but I honor 'them still. I say nothing
of the false state of society, the folly and blindness of
parents, the flattery of friends, that make them what
they are9. Would you have me dash my head against
a wall? From' now until the day of judgment, I veri-
ly believe young girls, fresh and sweet, and pure and
lovely, with the dew of heaven on their lips, and the
music of angels in their voices; with holy inspirations,
saintly virtues, heavenly dreams, and martyr endur-.
ance sleeping in their breasts, waiting the time for
woman's work to nee'd them, will be led like lambs to
the slaughter, after systemized hoarding-schools and
ec~ntentious ~homes have labored day and night, by
open blows and concealed undermining, by every
power known to' unau or woman, by appeals to every
w&amp;mau-fault and woman-enemy, to deaden and destroy

that heaven-born nature"before its first sweet slumbers
are broken. We may write books, we may preach
sermons, we may deliver lectures, we may call con-
ventions and establish associations, we may found
nunneries, and our reward will be only ridicule, and
fruitless labor for the world will go on just as before,
anSI woman will dance, and sing, and make merry, for
a brief season, before she resigns her throne for the
nursery; because, maimed and crippled, spiritually
and physically, she has not found thai~ both can be*
held at once. From the patient endurance, the tender-
ness, the unselfishness, and the strength for which
women fight, and which they so rarely. lose, through
all the power an~fL skill of the world, what may we not
hope?
I honor them still, these very girls-light, vain,
and capricious-who rattle nonsense till your head
aches, and imagine they are clever; these very girls
who would measure Tennyson by the cut of his coat,
and Browning by the style of his whiskers, who count
men and women by their dollars, rather than by their
virtues, these very girls, aimless, missionless as they
seem, are panting every one of them, like tired chib
dren, for the lost path. One of these, delicate, pain-
pered, idle,~luxurious as they are, will stand by your
bedside day after day, night after night, ~n4 dream
not that she is doing any thbig. Your ~tQut~ hearty
brother wrn do i~ mucI~, p~rliap; a~i4 you can never
4

I


~14              AT AIWHOR:                                       A STORY OF' OUR CIVIL WAR.      75

be enough grateful to him; a few sweet words, a
* loving smile, a caress more tender than usual, is her
utmost reward. One of these, weak, silly, thought-
less as they are, will find you a way through the
labyrinth of cares and fears, in which your last friend
has lefl~ you, hopelessly ensnared. One of these-what
use is there to talk-neglected, misled, misunderstood-
there is something pure and good, and strong in the
worst of them all. I honor them still, I long to take
them in my arms and say: "Oh, you frail little
creatures, wandering, like lost children, on false paths,
what n4~hty ways you might tread! How beautiful,
how great, how lovable you might be, if you would
strive not alone for the path of beauty, but of strength
and goodness; if you would only follow the divine
light not yet, never extinguished in your souls, and
make~it a halo for home and ~orthe world, a fireside
glow, and a beacon light!"
False, but so unconsciously false to themselves. I
love and honor my sex; and when I see one bright, and
sweet, and good, with a warm heart, and cordial hand,
cherished at home, honored abroad, bringing sweet
homeways into society, and grateful social charms
into the home circle, then indeed have my eyes beheld
~t lovely sight.
And in this spirit I took my place among them,
~nd tog~tlier we danced through one gay winter in
New York, while my uncle grew younger and gayer

every day, and was, perhaps, less glad than I when
fashion decreed that we should leave the dusty city
for summer's sweetest home.
Yet I did not like the prospect of another summer
in L-. I scarcely knew why, and my uncle read-
ing my half-formed thought proposed a tour through
the East, finishing, as in duty bound, at Saratoga,
where every thing was as it always is ; crowded hotels,
brimming over with flirts and fortune hunters, and for
the rest neither interesting nor picturesque in any
degree~
V


CHAPTER VIII.
THERR comes a time in nearly every woman's life,
I believe, when she is like one waiting. She is not
married, perhaps she does not care to be; she has no
especial Work, perhaps she does not desire to have;
she has no particular ambition or object in life, perhaps
does not know where to seek one. It is a trying
time; society is all in all to her no longer. She is too
unsettled~ to study, not knowing the need, and any
straw in the balance may turn her fate. Great mis-
fortune, some unexpected~change, may rouse her and
decide her for immense good, or monotony may! con-
quer, and she turns to a listless routine, from which
the chances are few that she will ever move.
Such a time liad come to me, and I faced it, for I
knew~ its meaning. Yow, or never, a work, amissiona
destiny, or a placid existence n~iade up. of books, music,
dancing, and embroidery. I tried many things. I
tried to write, I failed totally; I hardly know why, I
had education enough, and my imagination had enter-
tained me many an hour. I tried charity, but I mere.

I

I

A STORY 01? OUR CIVIL WAR.

77

ly made myself notorious, and was terribly imposed
upon. I tried a "Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Society," but the third meeting ended in exchange of
embroidery patterns and fashion plates, and' as I
would not lose my esteem for the minds of my friends,
I withdrew, and the whole thing fell to the ground.
I tried teaching, and adored it, but I had never known
confinement and my health gave way-I was not
sorry. What right had I, with a happy home, to take
the place of those who count it a blessing from heaven
to iind a place, however irksome, in which they could
toil and earn their daily bread?
"I wish we had an intriguing court," my uncle
said, "and troublesome times. You would be in your
element then."
We were walking down Pennsylvania Avenue as
he spoke, and I smiled for answer, for feet on desks,
pocketed hands,-an.d tobacco-stained mouths had not
much increased my admiration of the rulers of this
glorious Republic.
I was walking in my Yankee trust and simplicity,
in an honest road; how strange it seems to me now
that the very men I voted past redemj~tion dull, were
plotting and planning over their wine, with a skill and
a daring for which history furnishes me no simile!
We turned, my uncle and I, into a public hail to,
see an exhibition. The rooms were almost empty, but
a small group of gentlemen were gathered in one,


'78                AT A~OUOB:                                                   A ~FORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.          '79

* around whom the fe~ passing visitors lingered, ap-
parently listening. Uncle Tom was in some manner
drawn aside, and as I stood waiting for his .retui'n,
some Words of seemingly eager discussion caught my
ear. Presentlyone voice, deep and impassioned, fixed
my attention.
"A little more of this indecision," were the first
words I 'heard, "and the work is lost! A. little more
ease, a little more~ pleasure, and every thing will be
gone! Is there no strength, no energy left us? Is it
a few words here, a vote or two there, that is to work
out our salvation? Is it now and then a man, earnest
and willing to labor, that is to do the work?"
There was a mingling of voices, and I heard no
more; but something in the voice I had heard haunted
me. I really hungered for it ~as I wandered around
the building. I have heard stray notes of music,
passing' tones that have 'lingered with me in the
same way, but this was intensified, and so real that I
gladly saw my uncle depait, leaving me, with many
remonstrances, behind. I eared not for the words, I
would not even look at the speaker, but I would go
back and hear its music again. I was standing near
a large window, the crowd Was whirling by beneath,
rattling, thundering by, but it did not prevent my
hearing and distinguishing the voice that had beguiled
my fancy from all the rest. They were pTassing me on
their way out of the house; I turned slightly toward

them, the speaker was leaving them. I turned ~back
- to the window just as you do when~a sweet song is
ended. Some one stood beside me. I turned, and a
pair of eyes, so blue, so bright, so glad, so tender,
looked into mine, that I received their gaze as if all
were a dream. ~ So blue, so bright, so glad, so tended',
that I can never forget that moment's meeting.
"Am I forgotten? Am I to be introduced, and be-.
gin all over again?" It was the voice I had heard, and
though 1~he tone was apparently light, there was a deep-
er earnestness in it than when speaking before. The
same voice, and the speaker was Carlton Aberthnay.
"Forgotten?" I repeated dreamily. "No, I have a
vague, indefinite idea of having met you somewhere
before-in some other world, perhaps. It seems a life-
time since, but it will serve for an introduction."
"Take my ~ he answered, or rather asked,~
"and let us bring up the books for that lifetime; for a
new lifetime begins now!" This last half spoken,
half murmured, wholly exultant.
So arm in arm we paced up and do*n the long
rooms, and in his rich voice, his radiant beauty, in his
joyous words I found such pleasure as I had not
known for many ~ day.
"Ah, I have been roving around everywhere," be
said, answering my inquiries. "It seems rather ab-
surd to talk of a soldier's life in such i4mes as these,
when our eagle looks so dovelike, but mine I~as been


80

AT ANCHOR:

almost a live existence these two years past. It is
quite promising, I assure you! But do tell me* by
what strange chance Mi~ Vane was ever induced to
put his foot into this city of abominations; has he
gone into pQlitics?"
I laughed for answer.
"0, he scorns them," he said, intei'preting my
laugh. "Don't let him grumble, then, if things don't
-x go to suit him. It'8 a burning shame, the indifference
with which Northern men let the 'vulgar crowd' set~.
tle all affairs of state. Why, after a little it will be
highly disreputable for a respectable man to hold a
government office, which will be bad for us."
"Government rolls along comfortably enough," I
answered. "I can't blame men like uncle Tom for be-
ing unwilling to worry about its incoming and out~
goings so long as it comes and goes as prosaically as
at present. But don't let us waste our precious time
upon subjects so unworthy. I am more than disgusted
with Washington already."
"And how is every body in L-.?" and so on,
* gossip, small talk about works, paintings, music, men,
and women, now and then something a little graver;
so our talk ran, until my uncle Tom returned' for' me,
and as Mr. Aberthnay was of old an exceeding great
*   favorite with my uncle, he lacked not the most cordial
invitations to become almost domesticated with us,
invitations which were most quickly accepted.

As I thought now, sometimes, of the days when I
had looked upon Mr. Abertlinay as a lover, it seemed
as if they were days in a dream. No word, no look
that could bring back that time ever fell from him to
startle me; and enlivened by his ever-animated spirits,
interested in his plans, as no one who heard him talk
could help being, I soon found myself yielding to the
magnetism of his cheerful influence, and counted every
party dull of which he did not make.a part. No wo-
man will believe me if I say I saw with pleasure that
he had overcome his boyish fancy for me; no one will
believe me if I say I saw, with unmixed satisfaction,
that however much we were together the old feeling
gave no sign of reviving. We tell these men to for-.
get as a matter of duty, but we are not expected to
see, without a little surprise or mortified vanity, how
readily they obey us.
He was called. my lover everywhere: there are
few greater annoyances than this of having one's name
always coupled with that of one who is more than
friend, and less than lover; to whom the world will
positively engage you, or absolutely demand that you
shall count 'him not even an acquaintance.
He was not~ my lover, yet I knew he had a revpr-
ence for me that I had never seen him yield to any
other. I knew he recognized me at n~iy best, with a
tender, protecting, manly forgiveness for all my
weaknesses. I knew if he did love me, he would love
4*

I

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.       81

81


/~§u'cj~ i.j j~

82

AT ANCHOR:

me as I had .fhncied I loyed Gilbert-as far as a man
conscious~of his manhood can so love-as if mine not his
were the greater soul; an unhappylove for both man and
woman, for itis her sweet right to lose herbeing in his.
One day, it was the last before I was to leave for
our summer home, there had been a meeting of infiw
ential men, apparently for. social enjoyment, but really
for graver purposes. My uncle and Mr. Aberthnay
had gone, and I was alone nearly all day. It was a
restless day, warm before one is ready for warmth, a
d~y with summer's languor without summer's beauty,
a day in which one's life~hardly seems worth fighting
for. That day, at twilight, after the meeting, Carl-
ton ~Aberthnay, with a-rush of wor~1s wbich I could not
* stay, told me that he still loved me-not timidly, al-
moat hopelessly, as of old, but powerfully, determined-
ly, '~4th a love that would never cease. Gently he told
me, but terribly.
I. could but beg him to hush, to spare. me.,
"Spare you, Georgie? Is it so dreadful to love
and to kiiow it? One word-"
"No, no, I cannot say it." I moaned, thinking of
his pain, and the wrong I. had done him in letting this
thing go on.
He saw, at last, my heart was not for him; and
*w~ien he, saw there was pain beyond any maiden coy-
ness,~ he stayed bis words of entreaty; asking me only
to t~U him why it pained me so.

83

* "Because," I ~answered,' "because ~ ~ould have
known this; I should have been strong i~gh to de-
prive myself; for your sake, of the soet ,that has
been so pleasant to me."               -
"Do you imagine you, could have done any thing
to change me? You could, indeed, have. taken away
the joy of being with you, but you could have taken
away none of the love wherewith I have loved you
from the first, and will love you as long as I live in
this world, and, if God so permits, in the next."
"I must not listen to you," I said. "I am inca-
pable of loving any one, and it is not right that I
should hear such noble words. U have done you
Wicked, bitter wrong; you should do nothing but
hate me."
"I can do nothing but love you, Georgie," he said,
"but love, you and reverence you all the days of my
life. Not incapable of loving! do not say that, but not
loving because there is no one worthy of your great
heart. I, least of all; I have never for one moment
dreamed myself worthy, but I did dare to think x~iy
love for you might make me less unworthy. I have
tried to think if I knew one better than I who loved
you, could, I stand by and let him take what I dared
not hope to win, and I knew I could not do it; I must
seek you, you only. But do not look so frightened.
I love you, I seek you, I wait for you, but I shall not
persecute you, in word or thought; do not ~thinkof

n.

A ~OBY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.


AT ANCHOR:
me as of one sorrowing, but as one glad to have loved
you, even though loving in vain. This is all. I would
not pain you for the world."
Had he said more .1 could have i'esisted better; but
my own- reproaches, his resolutely-suppressed words,~
his gentle forbearance to probe my wound, were al-
most more than I could bear.
Soon I spoke more plainly, telling him, not that I
had loved any other, for I had persuaded myself that
I had not; but that deepest, firmest friendship, was all
I could ever give him, or indeed any one. Then he
plead for that in exchange for the love he offered me,
and I' strove with him for himself against himself, ipi-
plored him not to let me weakly consent to do him
this terrible wrong. But my words no longer availed;
and so, at last, wearied with the day's languor, and
listening to the voice that pleaded so sweetly, be~
living I could make him a true and trusty, if not a
fond and loving ~vife, I choked down the expostula-
tions of my conscience, and the forebodings of my
heart, and became Carlton Aberthnay's promised
* wife."
"Not promised," he said; "nothing more shall you
promise me than that I may love you, may be near
you, may live in the light of your presence. I will not
do you the wrong to take a promise so urgently en.
treated, so almost forced from you. But I will love
you, I will follow you, I will live for you until such

A STORY OP OUR GI~IL WAR.       85

day as your heart turns against me; and then, dearest
Georgie, do not hesitate to send me away."
"I shall never send you away," I answered; "so long
as you are satisfied with that which I told you is yours,
has long been yours, so long shall I, too be yours."
The duty was less wearisome than I 'had feared;
I ground down my conscience, and at last it ceased to
reproach me; I began to forget that I did not love
Carl, and to live willingly, eagerly even, in his love,
his ardent, unselfish love.
Time went by lightly enough, when, sitting under
our brave Massachusetts' elms, I poured out all my
thoughts to him as I had never done to any other.
Often and often had I longed f6r this; a manly mind
in communion with my own, not for love, but cultiva-
tion. His letters were treasures of literary taste, and
full of thoughtful interest~ apart even from the unva-
i'ying devotion which was the undercurrent of every
thought and expression. I lived in the varied- scenes
through which ho passed; I felt that I knew those
whom he met and cared for, and scarcely considered
if the myriad fancies which clustered around our cor-
respondence were mine or were his. But here it end-
ed; mine was only an intellectual pleasure in writing;
he, poor fellow! opened hi~ heart and showered its
wealth of love on me, and received never a word of
love in return, for I was scrupulously exact in all I
gave, or seemed to give. With his native delicacy' ho

85


88             AT ANCHOR:

made no complaint, although it must have pained him
deeply. Once he wrote me, however: "Your letters
are beautiful; were, they not even from you,. I think I
could never tir&amp; of reading them. They are really
works of art, but works no more for me than they
might be for any other."
And again: "Among all these fresh, fragrant flow-
ers of your funcy, what unutterable joy if there should
be found one little heart blossom that had bloomed for
me only; one leaf or bud. from your great wealth of
suck to be worn ever in his heart whose life is in
7~
Still I did not realize the yearning which thus
murmured to me. I lived in a cold, selfish mood,
rather proud of the fervid, romantic way in which he
loved me, never thinking love could be forced, how..
ever gently; never questioning to which my heart
were best given, never straining to the higher soul,
the knightly s9ul that loved me, "not Lancelot nor
an~her." I was startled into momentary warmth
only when I was obliged to feel that no man~s love
can be long preserved without some slight hope of re-
turn; clinging to Carlton as my all in the world, this
thought always frightened me. But I kept even that
passing glow out of my letters. I meant to be just to
him, and never to deceive him, never ,to feign what.I
did not feel. It did not occur to me to feel what I
would not feign.

CHAPTER IX.
THERE were gay times when "Miss Georgie's"
engagement came to the knowledge of the household.
Kate in a silk ~o stiff that her every motion made my
headache, came~ down especially to congratulate me.
Of course, she had known all about it all along; she
always knew I liked him; she had said to Mrs. Glynn,
"Just you take my word for it, Mr. Aberthnay's the
man;" some people had thought that I was going to
have Gilbert Stuart, but she had known better, 'she
had: I was never going to be a farmer's humdrum
wife, with two new dresses a season, and one silk for
Sunday, not I-I was no such fool, as that-I had
played my cards' well, Kate thought, had got a real
nice husband, and now she had only to hope my
wedding dress would be a beauty. And then to think
how many would be jealous, and what Mrs. Graham
would say who had tried so hard to get Mr. Aberthnay
for Florence, and what Mr. Stuart would say who had
tried so hard to get me. The hypocrite! If she but
knew how w911 I understood and scorned her for her
duplicity!


88              AT ANCHOR:                                          A STORY OP OUR CIVIL WAR.      81)

Mr~ Abertlinay had resigned his position upon my
unele'~ demurring about my marrying an officer;
'officer; you know, take excellently well with the
ladies, but when I wa&amp; young, guardians, uncles, and
papas had a holy horror of the army; but Mr. Ab-
erthnay's resignation removed my uncle's only shadow
of objection, and as I could raise none, our marriage
cards were ordered.
I went down to L- for a ~w days before the.
time, while Kate, who was to 'be my first bridesmaid,
kept house for my uncle in New York. Kate might
well congratulate me on my marriage, for she was to
take my place, a snug one enough, in my uncle's
homestead, as she had already taken my place else-
where. No, not that; she could never fill my place in
either capacity. It rained nearly all the time I was
there,. ;dulI, dreary November storms; I was glad
enough to leave the old house that would never see
Georgie Vane again. Mrs. Glynn, the housekeeper,
would not let a thing be taken from my room; it must
always look just so, she said, to welcome me when I
came home for my visits. We went all over the house
together, I giving her some little memento for each of~
the servants, until we came, at last, bonneted and cloak-
ed to the 'hail, when she said: "Please, Miss Georgie,
you've been so good, you've remembered all-even poor
Christy-there's one who you might remember."
4
"Whom?"

"Mr. Stuart, Miss Georgie."
Turning toward her angrily, I answered: "I have
nothing for him."
"Oh! any thing, Miss Georgie, that I could give
him some time; I needn't say you told me, Miss."
My eyes fell wistfully on the little black cabinet, I
even put the key in to open it, but I remembered.
"No, Mrs. Glynn," I said, rising and' speaking reso-
lutely, "I am going to marry Mr. Aberthnay, I must
not think of any one else. But here," I added, taking
off a ring that Mr. Stuart had won at a Fair, years and
years before, and given to me, ~" give this to Miss Kate
on her wedding-day. Tell her Mr. Stuart gave it to
me." Sh~ took it wonderingly.
"But Mr. Stuart-" she urged.
"Ihate him I" I answered, stung by her persever-
ance. "I hate the very sound of his name!" She
sprang toward me, holding her hand before my
mouth, a freedom which startled me more than words
or shrieks could have done. r' saw that she turned
her eyes toward the parlor door. I had not time to
ask her what it meant, before a pale face passed be-
tween me and the light.
"I did not intend to hear-" he began, then paused.
"You are quite right, Miss Vane; I did not know you
were going so soon. I hoped to have made you a call
earlier, but was detained. Shall I see you to your
carriage?"

I


I'

0-

AT ANCHOB

He did; for I had no power to move or speak. He
pushed in my dress gently, closed the carriage door,
raised his hat, and the carriage moved on.
I looked at Mrs. Glynn.
"Please don't be angry with me," she said half
crying, "I always fancied y~ou had a liking for each
other, and I thought may be at the last minute it
would come round; so when he came past the house
this morning I, made bold to speak to him, and to tell
him you wa~ going away; he said perhaps he would
find, time to see you, only perhaps, he said, you'd be
too busy; but I said no, and told him to come; but I
didn't in~an no harm, only "
"Life isn't a novel, Mrs. Glynn, and I hope you are
convinced now that Mr. Stuart and I d~ not care for
each other?"
"Yes, Miss, now I know, but I didn't used to think
it would come out so."
"You see he does not care for me," was all Icould
say.
"'Yes, Miss, I seen it now; but I hadn't then."
"What did he come up to the house for, then, if he
didn't care for me," I exclaimed.
~he looked, at me amazed. "1' think it was my
fault, Miss Georgie," she answered; but I had regained
my. ~elf~control, and said no more, hating myself,.
hating her, hating him, hating all the world.
But it was different when Uncle Tom and Mr.

- a

A. STORY:OP 0113 CIVIL WiB.
A~erthnay met me at the depot, as glad to see me,
both, as ff1 had been gone a year. My trousseau was
almost finished; Mrs. Giddings had sent for more lace
for my dress, and Mrs. Varney~ said my wreath would
be superb-this was Kate's greeting, of course.
I had a grand wedding; my uncle looked upon it
as the climax* of his life, he wouldn't have had any
thing wanting that money or labor could get, for the
world. He and Kate seemed to feel very much more
excited about it than we who were the most concerned;
indeed, Kate seemed ever on the point of thanking me
for my kindness in getting married, as ff1 had done it
all on purpose for the gratification she found in fixing
and fussing for it.
I do not know of what other people think when
they are about being marriQd, I know I thought
more connectedly of the fitting of my dress, the trail-
ing of the skirts, the killing of my veil, than any thing
else; and 1 am sure if Mr. Aberthnay had told me the
truth about his, it would have been of the ugliness of
a modern man's "wedding garments."
At last I was dressed, and left alone, haunted by
an undefined dread, nervous and restless.
But when I heard Mr. Aberthnay's eager step on
the stairs, knowing that he had come for me, my heart
almost failed me. - He came in, every feature radiant
'with happiness.
I went forward to meet him, holding out my un~
/


92

AT A2N~CHOR

gloved hands for the bouquet he had brought me,
while he gazed upon me with ptiJe and delight.
Somehow his trust and happiness shot like arrows to
my 'heart.
"Oh, Carl," I said, with more warmth than I had
ever shown him before, "forgive me for this wrong to
you."
"Wrong! oh, Georg~e! Can you call that wrong
wbich makes my whole life a song 'of thanksgiving for
my unutterable happiness? I am. not worthy that yot
should permit me even to love you-you, my peerless
Georgie,-'how infinitely less worthy that you should
give yourself to me, to be mine, all mine, darling
Georgie, forever and forever mine!"
"Hush, Carl! Only too soon you will find that I
am only common earth, common clay; and you will
blush for shame to remember that you ever thought
me otherwise. Only too soon, Carl, you will become
tired o~ me, reproach me for my coldness,'-become
negligent, indifferent, and then, Carl, what is to be-
come of me?" For, with it all, I was fearfully jealous
of his love; knowing my small claim, I was ever in
terror of losing that which was all the love the world
had. for me.
"Reproach you, my pride, my joy, my love! How
cruelly you judge me! Say, Georgie, do you think
that man lives who could woo you from your happy
home, where every love and care were lavished on you,

I

A STORY 0]? OUR CIVIL WAR.

93

N
even, to look upon you with less than unutterable
gratitude and adoration? Trust me, Georgie, my love
is warm and great enough to shelter you forever.
Every day it must increase, for every day, 'already, I
love you more than before. Come to me, then, fear-
lessly, Georgie, as to one who only prays to spend his
life in loving you.~~
"You will tire of that, Carl; and how, then, can I
keep you--I, who am so cold, so undemonstrative?
Oh, no, Carl, it must not be. I cannot return you any
thing worthy of your great, boundless love."
"It wishes no return, dearest Georgie, save your
own free return. Is it not of itself happiness beyond
words to be with you always, and to love you al~
ways?"
"Always!" I repeated, clinging to him, whose
caresses, in a few hours I could no longer refuse.
"Fear not," he said, fondly; "when the blessed
words are spoken, God will turn your heart to me, and
we shall be forever happy.~~
My conscience 'wag not satisfied, my fears were not
calmed; the more he told me of his love the more I
longed for it, trembled to lose it, and yet felt my own
unworthiness. I felt old in the ways of the heart,
feeling like one who takes from a child his fresh, trusts
ing innocence. -
Looking dqwn on me, he seemed startled.
"Georgie," he said, "tell me, are you. forcing your-

I I

1?


AT ASCHO:R:

self to this? It is not too late. Georgie, fear iiot to
un~wer. 'Would I not die here at your feet, and count
it bliss so to die, rather tbai~ cause you one instant's
pain? Would I accept any happiness at the cost of
a pang to you? And perhaps it is better; who can
tell into what sorrow and pain I am leading you?
who can tell what shadows, dark and heavy, may
gather around the home to which I take you? Oh,
Georgie, I have not dared think before that even
blood and death may fall to my lot,' for you to share
with me. 1{ow that I feel how dear you are, I trem-
ble before the thought. How I have wronged you!"
This was enough; I shrink from danger or grief!
I fear to breast life's angriest wave' by my husband's
side! If there were storms ahead, then well' for him
to have the one he loved by him. "Danger or sorrow
will 1~ut bind us the closer," I said, and hid my face
against his heart, pressed his hand firmly in mine, and
when I looked at him again every~ shadow had passed
away, his eyes were misty with unshed tears of joy,
and his lips trembled with gratitude.
And so we went down through the long line of
bridesmaids and attendant grooms; went on until we.
stood before' the high altar in the' crowded cathedral,
-in the crowded cathedral, fragrant with the. 'choicest
flowers, brilliant with myriad lights, melodious 'with
the richest music:
The last echo died away, every breath was hushed

94

as the words were spoken. us deep "I will"' rolled
on my ears terrible as some loud, prolonged thunder~
peal. My own, spoken low and firm, they told me af~
terwards, sounded to me as if echoed by a thousand
mocking voices. But the words were
was no recall, and we 'went down the' spoken, there
long aisle ma~
a~c~ w .       /
/

4 -

~1F.

A STORY OF OUR GtVm WAR.

95


CHAPTER X~

$

IT was hard to see my poor Uncle Tom breaking
down at the last, and pushing me into the carriage
with something between a blessing and a jest; harder
still to hear Kate's violent professions of sorrow and
affection; but I forbore resistance, letting her have it
her own way, wondering if she fancied I could be so
easily deceived. All the partings came to an end, at
last, and Carl and I departed.
We went down to the plantation, and lived hap-
pily as might be. More loVing and more tender bride-
groom could not be. Every luxury that the most
boundless devotion could devise was lavished upon me
by him, who, though' my husband, was still my lover.
There were all the' novelties of Southern institu-
tions to interest me,-the freedom of Southern life to
employ my energy, curiosity, and love of scenery;
while each particular negro seemed a "character" to
my unaccustomed eyes.
Nothing ~at first struck me more forcibly than the

A STOI~Y OF OUR CIVIL WAR.       97

* wonderful capacity ~of the negroes for enjoyment.
notwithstandingg their hard-working, aimless lives, so
burdensome as to seem calculated to deaden every
spark of spirit within them, they- entered with the zest
of children let loose from school into all the festivities
designed to celebrate their master's marriage. Never
shall I forget my first sensations as their dark faces
suddenly appeared before me, intent, no* doubt, on no
thought but a fair lo~k at the new "missus," but
seeming to me ominous of shadows and clouds in my
new home.
I could not enjoy their hilarity; it was to my views
so forced, so soulless, and unnaturaL All shams were
and are alike to me; no clown ever aroused my laugh-
ter,-no circus antics ever gave me any feeling but of
pain for the performers; and so now I breathed freer
when there came an end. to the "festivities," that is,
the well-arranged farce, in which the expert manager
exhibits his sable troupe for the especial edifiqation of
benighted Northerners visiting the sunny South, who
seeing, return and write ponderous volumes about the
gay and affectionate negro, as seen in the charming
light of the patriarchal system. We know better.
They are a sensitive race, these poor black slaves,
quick to see through your actions and your motives,
through your mask to your heart; and although I
treated them with uniform consideration, never over-
working them, never letting them suffer for any care
5'

i
{

I


98 '

AT ANHO:

in .health or sickness, never speaking harshly to them,
never even. raising my voice in sternness to them, I
found they loved me not half as well as they would
others, whom I myself have -heard talking to them
with a vehemence -which would shame our sharpest
tongued northern virago ; and not only talking, but I
have seen fair and gentle women, soft-eyed, sweet-
hued, angelic-seeming women, like the blue-eyed hero-
ines of men'8 novels, redden their lily hands by re-
peated applications to dark, oflendinig faces, in spite of
which the affectionate victims are ever ready to sacri-
fice their lives, their all on earth, to them, to these
same relentless persecutors-.
My husband only smiled at the horror these " fair
ladies'" conduct excited in me. My husband, who
would have forgiven me any crime 'upon earth sooner
than imn unfeminity ; who would have avoided as he
would a scorpion,. the daring woman who stepped
enough from her sphere to be observed, to be criti-
cized, to be lauded even; with his delicate, sensitive,
refined, fastidious nature, smiled at the things which
would have turned away the roughest northern farm-
er ! It was the inevitable consequence of the "insti-
tution," he said ; " the women were as kind-hearted
gentle creatures as need be; the thing was necessary ;
*negro takes to whipping, he don't know how to get
That mght be; but no lash fell onr woman's shoul-

I

I ~
W L ~ s.J ~ -~

14

1"' ~
~ 2
A STORYOF O1TR CIVIL WAR.
'*-  ~4~-

ders, no hard Words, no harshvoconayerwhl
I was their mistress. My condvce was atute byr the
pride and self-respect which sucornedas inutdb the
who were beneath insult and beyond th owerul oe
sentment, and in due tim  they a e  pwekl as lambs
under my government, faringey quet veekcy as amuch
as they feared the cellar or the lash quie voice neverc
warmed to them. I knew it wa   yu ownr sneverc
had brought them there ,a our own s whichms
expiate in tears of blood, ut Iw coul notc forgive
them that, innocently, they had caused n.gie
felttis, they knew my heart wa sased them They
creatures, watching myeeymvetwt          pnfu
desire to anticipate emy every wishveme wh hadnu
governed them in the sme waey fromh.innes instead
of pride, would havesame walmfotam odess toa
them, led as they are blindly by their arts, goddes o
which the warmth never dies.   hi   eatoto
But beyond all horrors, and, Yane-rdIfod
plenty, was that inspired byyfis sightkee-breI field
hands as they came slowly firstne andh om thefol-
gether, staggering from hea nd mexhausn, tomen lto-
ter scorning to moan, though 'isibly amstonkin tot
ifthe groud; a sern, morne set of women, looking as
if tey hmethiecome too hard even to curs their fate.
I el smehig liesympathy for them, stading p
right, upheld byinte strength, statue-j1e a' eating
eac he tun t hae er works weighed and h~'day's

gg


100

AT ANCHOR:

toil ended, to be free to throw themselves, like logs,
upon the floor, muttering now and then a bitter oath
or two before they turned sullenly to the wall. I
went down to them and spoke to them as one woman
to another. I could do it easily to them, easier than
to many a fair white lady in her beauty and wealth.
"Carl," I said, one night', "you must not have
women work on the plantation. It is cruel."
"They' only work when we are pressed, and are
worth as much as the men."
"It is not a question of their worth, but of your
humanity."
"Nonsense, Georgie; you must get these Yankee
ideas out of your head, or they will make you trouble.
Nobody on my plantation has much to complain of.
Grin~s says the rascals are as fat and lazy as the day
is long. I am not a hard master. Will not every
slave I have tell you there is no easier master than
theirs for miles and miles around?"
"But it is not other men's actions that you should
take as a standard, but your own sense of right. It is
au outr~g~ upon Christianity, upon human nature it-
self; to allow a woman to 'work at such. labor, under
the burning sun, and your barbarian oversees~"
"Forever down upon poor Grimes! Why, Georgie,
you o~igh1 to have unqualified admiration for him; he
is a countryman of yoi~irs, that is, a New Englander.
He gets niore work out of those lazy fellows than any

&amp;

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.

101

other overseer in the county, beats us Southerners all
hollow."
"I do not, doubt it. A Northern man, ~re&amp; to
Northern morality, never sinks to such dirty work
until he has, thrown away all ideas of civilization and
decency.,~
"You are hard; but, Come, have one of Jack's
cobblers, and let the niggers go; too hot a subject for
such a confounded hot day."
"But I cannot let it go, Carl; I cannot sleep while
those hard faces are in my mind; they perfectly haunt
me. I supposed it was only the Legr6s who had such
assistants."
"You 'are too kind-hearted (4eorgie."
"I am not kind-hearted. I come to you in the
extremity of dread; I cannot dare to think of peace
here or hereafter, while such things go on. Do, Carl,
for my sake, if not for a better motive, send away
Mr. Grimes; let the Women leave out-of-door work to
the men, and "
"You and I take to farming,..~.eh, wifey mine?"
"You shan't laugh at me, Carl."
"And you 6kan't," mimicking my broad Yankee a,
and laughing up to my eyes. "And you shan't worry
me abQut these things. There isn't such a long, life
before me, that I can afford to lose one sweet minute
in any thing but happiness with my queen of wives.
Hush! not a word. I am too good-natured and lazy;~


A STORY ;OF OUR CIVIL WAR.     103

102                 AT ANcHOR:

the first I knoW, you, with your terrific Yankee energy
and '~im; will prove a perfect despot over me."
"You shall not turn me away,," I answered; "I
am not going to be put off with pretty speeches; I am
'in earnest, speaking from my heart."
"Well, Georgie, I do not doubt that many things
strike you, a stranger to our ways, as rather hard,
more especially as just now we are in such a state that
we have to work things harder than ever before; but
when you know us better, you will see that we do our
best considering the circumstances. Fancy now that
I should do as you ask me, and you know, Queen
Georgie, there is nothing that you could ask that it is
not happiness f'or me to do, if it is only in my power;
fancy now that I should in* this, our busiest season,
send away Mr. Grimes and release those few women,
what WouId be the consequence? In place of the
women for whom there is no other possible work, I
should have to get some more men, which is a thing
out of the question,-I cannot afford it. Next I should
have to find a successor to Grimes, no easy matter,
and all the* time spent in searching so much time lost;'
the best I could get would, I am certain, be so much
inferior to him, that half a dozen extra hands would
not more than make up the difference. When times
come better and things get easier, you will not. have to"
a~k this twice; but now it will not do, Grimes is a
good fellow; ~he knows I would discharge him in an

hour if lie was cruel to the hands; he is a thorough
and a super manager; he takes a world of care off my,
shoulders; so let u~ leave him to get things through in
his own way; and now, Georgie-
'Since in wailing
There's naught availing,
But death unfailing
Must stAke the blow;
Then for this reason,
And for a season,
Let us be merry before we go!'"
"But, Carl," I urged, "wha't do we want of so
much money? Do you suppose I want useless fine
things obtained by money coined out of the tears of
my own sex..
"If there's one thing that I hate more than an-
other," interrupted my husband, "it is to hear you
call those black beings of your sex. Let me implore
you to spare me that pain. You, the very perfection
of beauty, grace, and intellect! God's fairest, proud-
est, noblest handiwork, and those-. There's your
Northern cant-' Am I not a man and a brother ? ~
good enough. for your Garrisons and your Phillipses,
but thorough cant-what man or woman of those
abolitionists ever meant a word of this? I hate cant;
but I answer your question, 'What do we want of so
much money?' Georgie, we have a use for all our.
money, which it would make your blood cold to hear.


1Q4~             AT ANchoR:                                              A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.

105

'Coined out of tears,' you. say,-it will be coined out
of better life-blood than that of black slaves one of
these days. But not yet, perhaps never; do not think
of it. Forgive me,. darling Georgie, if I seem unkind
to you,-you, who are dearer than life itself; but, trust
me, I am not hard-hearted, and what I can do for my
* slaves I am glad to do; but to make any change, how-
ever slight, in their condition, might endanger more
than my property."
"how so, Carl."
"A certain set of men in the South, Georgie, in
order to prevent the people from being disgusted with
slavery, and to keep the South united in one interest,
in order to further their own ends, social and political,
have taken advantage of the Northern detestation of
slavery, and the imprudent expressions of a certain
set of fanatics at the North, to make our people jeal-
ously, morbidly sensitive on the subject which is our
perpetual bone of contention. Lately it has become
imperative on us to be as one man,'-this, our common
interest, is the tie that binds us in spite of all opposing
thoughts and feelings; we have been worked up on the
subject more assiduously than ever, and now it is not
safe for. one to do a humane or Christian act toward
his slaves,, especially if he is known, like me, to have
a Northern education and a brave Northern wife;
my smallest act would be magnified into an enormous
abolition tendency, the crime of crimes down here."

"I never dreamed of this, CarL I thought we
lived in a free country.".
"Not yet; but we shall make it so; the hour is
almost at hand."
"Carl,~ I do not wish to penetrate your secrets, but
let me entreat you to ~beware lest your enthusiasm and
love for your own section, may be used to make you a
tool in the hands of ambitious and designing men."
"A tool! Do I look like it? No, Georgie, wher-
ever your husband goes he goes. as a leader, be sure of
that. I do not go into any thing blindly; this is no
new thing, we have been brought up to it, to work for
'Southern rights.' You are amazed; you remember
our 'conversation at your uncle's? I did not know
then how much of reality there was in what I said.
You laughed at me for a dreamer then-so would all
your Northern friends; they have been too busy
making money up North, to think what we were
doing here; too much elated with their annual fleecing
of the Southerners to see that we were not the easy
- fools we seemed."'
"Carl, you terrify me."
"It is that which terrifies me. Oh! Georgie, if
any thing should happen and you an exile from your
early home, turned against this, and hating me, hating
the fate which brought us together, perhaps! Oh,
Georgie, how easily, how cheerfully, how proudly I
could brave the world and death itself if you but felt
5*

0


168              AT AKcHoI~:
with me, but sent me forth with your smiles and your
blessings."
"Whatever you do, Carl, so it be nothing un-
worthy yourself; t, if you care for my poor prayers,
shall never cease to give them.
"Bless you for that!. But how can I ever hope to
convince you of the justice of our cause while your
North~n education and your Northetn prejudices force
you to see only that which is misled or mistaken in
our lives? How can I show you the South as I see
her, to-day writhing under the heel of the North, to-
morrow baptized, it may be, in blood and tears, rising
resplendent to her proper throne, radiant and pure,
mistress of herself; queen of the far West?"
"Never, Carl I' see no picture of the kind. I see
only ihat you, my husband, are following a will-o'-the-
wisp to worse than death. Of what can you~ com-
plain? The, North for all its superior strength and
talent, for all its greater power and position, is ever
ready to kneel in the dust for you. Our Government
has long been in 'your hands; we helped you elect the
present President on purpose that no Northern in-
fluence should be used against you; he is bound by
his office to administer *his government fairly and
impartially, knowing no North, no 'South. Has he done
so? Who has a right to complain-you or the North?
You give us our Presidents, we say humble thanks;
you dictate our policy, we kiss your hands; you fill

I

~ft
'I

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.     lo~

our places in the Cabinet, in the Army, at West Point,
we are duly grateful, and now we are in the dust cry-
ing to you-' what more can we do?' You your-
selves laugh at us for our servility, and dictate tous
with all the arrogance of contempt. What n1~ore
would you have?"
"That inky be as you say, Georgie, but it does not
suit us. The North outnumbers us, any day that it
chooses to unite against us we are lost. But let us
once become free of her, free to stretch our empire, and
then!"
"And then'?"
"Why, then, we shall become a great Southern
Republic, and Madame North will have to be on her
good behavior."
"Like the prodigal you want your share of the
substance, and freedom to go off on your own hook
awhile? Don't try it, Carl, or you may search in vain
even for the husks of the corn which the swine did
* eat. Reflect, it is not one man who goes, nor ten, nor
~a thousand, it is the Union that is a Union no longer;
and the sin, a terrible one, will be on your own heads."
"I deny any wrong about it. If South Carolina
or any other State which o*~.her own choice went into
the Union of her, own accord goes out of it, my duty
to her requires that I go with her."
"Is not Calhoun dead yet, or is it that the 'evil
men do lives after them?' It may do for some to

10&amp;


108          AT AXGIOn1.

deny that our Union is a nation, but it scarcely does
for you, Carl, a commissioned officer of the United
States, educated by her to whom you have sworn
allegiance, to plead any States Rights' sophistry.
"I have resigned my position in the United States
Army; when I again take up the sword it will be as
the-" he paused.
"As the enemy of the Government to whom you
ate indebted for that sword!" I added.
He Idid not seem pleased. I did not imagine my
words were so little wide of the truth.
"Let us be happy while we can, Georgie," he said.
"Leave arguing to your c6ttsin Kate, and tune your
voice to the music of which I can never tire," and he
sent me to 'the pia~o.

CHAPTER XI.
DAYS came and went; dull days; little to do, lit-
tle to see, little to read. I tried to interest myself in
the new scenes around me, but, the summer gone,. my
heart pined for the white fields of snow the ice-hung
trees, and the clear, cold starlight of dear New Eng-
land-ever dear, but never so dear as when, sitting in
my own new home, my hands clasped so as to conceal
the wedding-ring, memory brought back the rosy
skaters, the merry sleigh-bells, and the shouts of the
boys dashing down' the hills on their swift sleds, which
had so often aroused my mirth at home; at home,-
would any place ever seem like home to me again!
Thinking of the old days when 'a bright, somewhat
hoydenisli girl, I tramped through the snow to school,
made snow men, or glided through labyrinthian snow-
caves with a bright, red-oheeked boy,' my constant
companion, torment, and champion,-thinking of this,
how tame and aimless seemed my present life.!
"Your heart is not with us," my husband would
say, if a shadow rested on my face; "patience, Georgie

108


110              AT AI~CHOR:                                               A STORY OP. OUR CIVIL WAR.      111

dearest, let the~ fierce March winds go by, and my
prisoner bird shall breathe her native air again."
And for that .1 seemed to live. I counted the days
until the spring should be at . hand, and I could be
once more in the arms of the old house.
No change had come over my husband's ter~der~
ness, b~it I was. far from being his sole engrossing
thought. Deeper things than. I was permitted to
know were being woven in my very house, which I,
hands tied, could make no effort to sunder.
A day or two before we wereto leave, it was not
long after the Charleston Convention, my husband
'brought some of its members home to dinner.
"Do not invite any one," he said to .me; "let it be
really en famit~e, and do try to keep that Grimes
away. He has lately adopted a fashion of intruding
his vulgar face whenever I have gen1~lemen here; I
don't like it; and, Georgie "-this very wistfully-
"Georgie, darling, it kills me to keep these things
from you; I cannot deceive you, and we so much
need your help, your quick observations, your tact,
your ready woman's instinct; I want your brave
heart and your noble soul to uphold and steady mine.
But I have to shut up every thing in myself; away
from you,-should it be so ?."
" You can trust me, at least. It may be that I
cannot agree with you, that I shall even be* forced to
condemn your work; but I can respect your motives.

I do not flatter myself I could aid your cause if I
would; but I can guard ydur honor."
"Then I need not fear to speak before you.?"
"Carl!"
"I mean that I did not know but you would con-
sider your duty to your country 'would require you to
betray your husband."
"I have been too often tried, as you know, and
been proved too weak for any such Spartan virtues for
you to fear me now.'~~
"It is a great relief to me," he answered; "I am
always afraid of your heroic, Puritanic New Euglana-
ers. I do not care how hardly you blame us to our
faces, so you keep our secret. You will have to meet
all sorts of men, Georgie darling, men that I hate. to
have t'o breathe the~ same air with you, men that I
shrink from meeting myself; but I know you will un-
derstand that it. is necessity."
"I never mind th~at sort of thing, Carl; if men
are vile and base, I feel it if they are ever so smooth
and polished; but most men have something endurable
in them, so do not worry for me. Are you to have~ a
set of diplomats to dinner to-day?"
They will be somewhat in that line, I must con-
fess; insignificant, common-place. men they may seem
to you, and they probably are not broad-minded, but
each ha~ his allotted work, and through that may one
day be famous. I shall tell you no more of them or our


112                AT A~ToEOU:

plans, but let them develop themselves; only this,
whatever is said, answer as you choose; I will not
have my wife restricted at my own dinner-table.
'there are things that will seem strange, perhaps re-
pulsive to you,, but I trust to the largeness of your
intellect to know such things must be, and to make
allowances for all; and, remember, we see our onside
of the shield as clearly as you yours."
"You do not seem to have succeeded over well in
your conventions," I said, at dinner, to relieve an em-
barrassed silence, or a more embarrassing attempt at
small talk among the gentlemen. "Are good men
and true men so scarce that you could not find a wor-
thy candidate among them?"
"It was a sad affair," said one, without lifting his
eyes.
"Mrs. Abertlinay," said my husband, significantly,
"although of Northern birth, is very free from North-
ern prejudices; and though she will pot let me, quite
yet, call her an earnest friend to our cause, she is, at
least, a noble and trusty foe."
Every one looked relieved, and a gentleman next
me offered me his hand; "* such a foe speedily becomes
a friend," ~he said, "we welcome you.~'
"I shall not allow myself to be called your oppo-
nent," I said, "until I see something I must oppose."
"We shall not break our hearts over the fate of the
Charleston Convention," one said, who seemed to be

A 5TO1~YOF otr~ cwn~ w&amp;.u.           113

their leader, and whose name was Layton, I think,
We are going to be good, and let the North elect
her own president for this term."
Provided he is of our choosing," said a Li~ii~
Gwynn, one of my husband's classmates at West Point.
"1 don't think we ne~d trouble ourselves," answer-
ed Mr. Layton; "Abraham will be an excellent patri-
arch for us as for the North. He was especially made
for this emergency, if I know the man; we'll let the
North have him to its heart's content."
"But he is the Republican choice," I said.
"Most fortunately, we think, some of us-most for-
tunately, Mrs. Abertlinay, for us, they have chosen.
the very man who will help us best," answered Mr.
Layton again. "We think him, some of us, an obsti~'
nate, self-willed, ignorant third-rate attorney. You
mustn't mind our saying it, you know, because he may
turn out a second Washington, whom, by the way, I
never considered any very great shakes of a man.
Yes, he is the Republican choice, and if we can only
get him elected we are all right."
"But even granting the man to be a fool," I said,
"how can you be willing to have a Republican Presi-
dent ?"
"Because, my dear lady, we want only one more
wrong to perfect our plans. To speak plainly to our
trus 4/ foe, every thing is ready for the explosion; we
only want the match to start it."


A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      116

114                AT A~cHoB:

"And the insult of a 1~orthern President-4' began
Lieut.~ Gwynn.
"Stimulated, encouraged, and completed by your-
selves," I added, "is to furnish that match? lit strikes
me, gentlemen, that a work commenced with so much
--~.duplicity" I intended saying, but seeing my hus-
band's anxious face, I changed the word to "address,"
"cannot but succeed. But do you think Mr. Lincoln
will be elected?"
"Beyond a doubt," answered a small-featured fiery
seeming little man on my right, who had not before
spoken,. "They will elect Abraham Lincoln; they
will dare force on. us a Black Republican President; a
rail-splitter, a low-bred, vulgar backwoodsman, for our
ruler!"
"Goad!" cried Lieut. Gwynn, "work that up into
an~ditorial to-morrow; it will tell; it is very sugges-
live, that is; one could make a lot out of that."
"Not so fast," interposed Mr. Layton, "who knows
but the Yankees will take you at your word, and be
afraid to put upa vulgaria; likeAbe."
"There is no danger; Abraham is the New Eng-
land Coriolanus they like the idea, it is a new one,
and they will stick to it. Besides, too, many of my
beloved brethren of the press know what they are
about."
"That's. your department, friend Risley," Lieut.
Gwynn said; "you wield the pen and I the sword."

"It will not come to that," remarked Mr. Layton.
"It may," replied my husband. "At all events
we must expect it. 'We may never need to strike a
blow; but we must be prepared to strike many, and'
perhaps to lose our h6ads for it."
"Very improbable," returned J~Ir. Layton, who was
evidently a man of peace. "I doubt if it will be more
than the settling of a few law questions, and the dis-
play of a few tricks by that excellent attorney, Abra-
ham Lincoln. What think you, Mrs. Aberthnay?
Will the North let us go in peace, do you think?"
"How do you mean 'go?"' I asked.
"Orderly, quietly, and according to law, if they
will let us; with flourish of trumpets and roll of drums,
if they will not."
"This is something so unexpected and unsuspected
at the North," I said, "that in the first surprise she
might forbear immediate violence; but the peaceable
separation of one State from the Union can never be."
"It is rather late in the day to talk of the chances,"
said my husband. "For mypart, I want no peaceable
separation. I am for war-war to the knife."
"And I!" cried the Lieutenant.
"Easy, easy, gentlemen," Mr. Layton said; "bet-
0
ter any thing than war until our new Confederacy is.
well bound together. What we want is to establish
the precedent, make the Union acknowledge~the right
of a State to secede, and we have the. Southern and.


118              AT A~rcHOR:                                           A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.

Border States sure; by and by we will take in the
Middle States, and sweep downward to the Gulf:
Then we may fight any nation on earth, not now."
"So you don't mean to take in New England?"
I asked.'
"Not if we know ourselves. New England has
been the skeleton in our closet long enough; if we
take her in ever, it will be by conquest," said Mr.
Layton.
"Then youbid her an eternal farewell 1" I exclaimed.
"New England, indeed!" broke out Lieut. Gwynn.
"Better than sweeping down to the Gulf, as Mr. Lay-
ton says, would it be to see South Carolina and Mas-
sachusetts array for a fair field and fight against
each other. ~d bet my all on the issue."
"The Massachusetts men will make the best fight-
ers ~in the North," my husband remarked.
*" I should judge the Western men would do bet-
ter," I said; "they are so rugged."
"For sonie.~. reasons you are very right, Mrs. Ab-
erthnay," said Mr. Layton, who, courteously, made me
all the ex4danatiOn5. "An army must fight for a prin-
ciple, and the better the principle is understood the
more it will affect the fighters. Besides, the morale is
half its power, and a New England man, whose will is
stronger than any other emotion belonging to him,
must fight well if he fights at alL The Westerners
are more hardy, it is true. If I were to lead an army

I would rather have mo~l courage and physical cow-
ardice than the reverse, to command. How is it, Cap-
tain, am I right?" he added, to a gentleman who had
spoken but little, and that altogether to my husband.
"Rig1~t, sir!" was the laconic reply from the Cap-
tain.
"I count very little on help from the North," my
husband said, after some minutes of silence.
"And I every thing!" cried Mr. Risley; "we have.
many zealous friends at the North, initiated and other-
wise; but for them our glorious undertaking could
never come to its culmination."
"How is that?" I asked.
"Northern merchants supply us with arms and
ammunition.-"
"Has it come to that?" I exclaimed.
"Come to that? Why, my dear lady, it has been
at that this many a day. As I was observing, or about
to observe, the Northern press, partly with knowledge
and partly in ignorance, form public opinion, and
there is often a big swing around our way; Northern
merchants, who would sooner lose all the flags in
Christendom than the patronage of one Southern firm,
are on their knees begging to serve us. ~-We have not
been these twenty years building a grand conservative
party there for nothing. We have made it, formed it,
moulded it, and fashioned it round about, and now
hold it in our hands. You will find in a t~w months a

'ii


A STOR7 OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      119

118               AT A~GHoR:

host of Northern writers, speakers, and demagogues
generally, fighting lustily for us."
"This thing has gone far," I said.
"Almost to the end," one answered.
*   "And, gentlemen, just among ourselves~ what do
* you expect the world to say of you?"
"As it does of all schemes: if successful, just; if
unsuccessful, infamous. '
"And your consciences?"
"Applaud us!" answered my husband, enthusi-
astically.
The Captain here showed some interest in the con-
versation..
"And history ?" I continued,
"Will judge us as the world judges," replied Mr.
Layton, "according to our ~ ~
"Successful or failing," I asked, "will it forgive
* yo~fort~einfinite miseryyo~r movement ~aycause~
Will it forgive you for the blood of the bravest and
the tears of the purest? Will it forgive you for the
lose of the noblest country whose story has even bless~
ed its pages? Will it forgive you for rights invaded,
for pr~uciples disregarded, for honor desecrated, for
broken hearI~s, for lost lives, and vanished souls?
If you have wrongs, remember no state or society
ever had less; remember, to right them would mu-
nitely multiply others; if you are ambitious, remember
ambition may soar to heaven or lower to hell, choose

yours. Let the good of humanity decide you, let the
tears of countless widows move you, let the sorrow
of unborn generations plead with you, for, successful
or failing, truth and justice wm pronounce you rebels
J and traitors."
My husband looked at me aghast; the Captain was
silently balancing a spoon; the others looked not over-
pleased, and in this manner we left the table.
"I have given my homily, and eased my con-
science," I added;' ." Mr. Aberthnay will give you
cigars, and by and by I will give you cofl~ee and mu-
sic, which I hope you will like as well as either.'~
The Captain went to the door with me, and even
followed me out into the gallery. Here he paused
and handed me a letter. "I have not quite known
whether or not to send it," he said; "you have de.
cided me not, and you deserve to know your victory.
After reading, please destroy it."
I understood the letter moderately well: it was the
resignation of his commission. I remember the name
very well, efame8 Belton~, written in large round let-
ters, perfectly characteristic of the Captain, as one
knew at a glance.
"For God's sake, Georgie," whispered my husband,
preceding the others into the parlor, "atone for that
cruel speech." -
I Saw already its uselessness; I understood that I
was endangering, for no purpose, my own and my hus..
*

r

118


-I

120

AT ANTCHOE ,

I

U

121

baud's security. Poor fellow I had I not already
wronged him enough ? So I did my best to make up
for that which I had said. I promised the Editor let-
ters from the North; I played chess with Lieut-.
Gwynn,1let him beat, and complimented him on his
skill. " It may make you a General one of these days,"
I said. -I sang Mr. Layton's favorite songs, and when
they were all in better humor with me, I went into a
heavy political argument with them, and allowed my-
self to be almost vanquished, which is as much as one
can expect of a New England woman.
" We shall have you an enthusiastic Spoutherner
soon," said Mr. Layton.
I shook my head.
"I am2 sure of it," he added; "I never ask more
than to find my opponent open to conviction. You
would be a -good friend now, only I perceive Mr. Ab-
erthnay has not set the ai-guments before you."
"Ah, you must not corivince me,".I said.   -
" We will let you off after that, Mrs. Aberthnay,"
the Lieutenant said ; "that one sentence half promises
surrender. The North itself will finish the work." '
So, on the whole, they went away pleased, as men
always are when they have demonstrated their supe-
rior minds. -
I watched my husband long after the others had
gone, as he lay back in his arm-chair lost in thought-.
He seemed to have grown years older iu the few

months lately passed. How he must have suffered,
been suffering, while I, his wife, his only friend, kept
.her heart closed to him.
I went around to where he sat, softly, and laid my
hand on his forehead,; it was burning. Smiling up to
me with 'that love which never failed, he laid his head
over my heart. " Let me take a little of its care," I
said ; "I who give it so much."
" No, no, Georgie; it was of your care I was think~
ing; if we could only bear every thing together. Re-
ligious differences between my wife and myself was
the only thing I used to fear; who would have thought
. so small a matter as politics, a subject which we once,
do you remember, pet Georgie, thought unworthy of
a few moments' careless thought, 'should now divide
us !"
" I did not mean to speak so strongly," I said ;
"the words surprised me as much as they did you."
" I was not thinking of.that ; you could not help
speaking as you did: they honored you,--Southern
men always honor frankness ; they respected the feel-
ing which dictated your words. All of them, except
perhaps Captain Belton."
"Did he not like it ?"
" He was the only one who spoke of it. He said it
was very doubtful if our fears had foundation; 1hufa th~at
if they had, and this cane to any thing, It wyqs to be
hoped Mrs, Abevt~uay woul4  e ge~re4 eny contest

A STORY OF~ OUR CIVIL WAR.


122              AT ANCHOR:
between her feelings and her acti9n5; or some rounded,
set speech of ihat import."
"Yet he spoke to me, and gave me a letter to de-
stroy."
"He will have time to change his mind around
again," my husband answered, after reading the letter.
"I am glad ho has left us; we want none with us who
are not heart and soul in our cause. I atu glad he has
found courage to leave us."
"Oh! Carl, if you-"
"It is not possible, Georgie; my fate is firmly
fixed. Do not worry me with pleadings. I have do-'
cided. Before we return from the North, it will be
'pretty clear what is to be done.. If there is danger of
trouble, I want you to i'emain with your uncle; to ar-
range every thing pleasantly for you will be one of my
greatest comforts, one which you must not deny
me."
"I must. Either with you here, or with you there.
I shall not leave you under any circumstances."
"Georgie, do you remember once, in Washington,
when we were dining at Mrs. Gaynor's, some one niade
the remark, that until a woman would lose her soul
for one she loved~ ~he did not love? Do you remem-
ber how shocked ypu were, and how much more.
~hooke4 when I said you were just that manner of
woman~?"
"As I had a right 1~o be. You know me better

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR~       123
now than to think me ally such mad, passionate wo-
man."
"Still, Georgie, can nothing make you love
me?"
"Can nothing less than such wicked folly content
you?"
"J do not want you to make sacrifices, more than
I can help, for me."
"If you loved me, Carl, you would know 1~here are
no sacrifices in love."
"Then you will not leave me to battle this out by
myself? '~
"Am I not your wife?"
"Always that! I hate your heroism! I do, in-
deed. I wish you were a great big baby of a woman,
who would fret at me, and cry, and scold, and go
into hysterics; any thing but this passive endurance
of every thing; this complete submission to my will
and my wishes! Isn't there! any rebellion in you,
Georgie?"
"Not a particle."
"Then I'm to have your bodily presence, without
your sympathy? Well, I ought to be grateful!"
"You're a barbarian!"
"-There, that's something like! If I were to fret
very much, perhaps in time you would call me a &amp;ute,
and then my happiness would be complete! What
are the chances, Georgie, pet ? '?~


124               AT ANCHOR.
"That it will be well deserved, whether said or
not."
"Better and better; have I driven you off? Well,
to-morrow for the North. I have work enough to do
there."
CHAPTER XII.
WE were not destined to get away without
more meeting with political men; for all day, neai
my husband had visitors, and three joined us at
early dinner.
They had already discovered my existenceva~
learned by the indiscreet loudness of a coarse VO]
that, on the way to dinner, pronounced my name a
and spoke of my natural qualifications as sufficient
do something which, I surmised, their arguments b
failed to do. I did not hear my husband's answer, I
I was convinced it was only a reply in words, and r
at all prepossessed in favor of my guests by this lit
interchange of thought, I received my husband a
them.
All three were strangers to me; an open-fac
soldierly man, Major Montreuil, sat on my right;
rather shabby but aristocratic-featured man, inti
duced as Mr. Beames, supported me on the other sid
while a Mr. Miles, to whom the rough voice belong
completed the number. I saw my husband was tir

crne
c~ur
si
[ce,
nd
to
Lad
)ut
iot
tle
nd
a
ro
ed

}


A STORY OF OUR civiL WiU~.         12'l

126                 AT A~rcHoR:

and worried, and I felt, myself, impatient to have the
coming hour go by.
I was cross, which always, among those I dislike,
makes me suspicious; and it was not long before I dis-
covered that somebody was wanted to be added to
their friends, who had, so far, resisted all allurements;
and it was thought, as this somebody was socially in-
clined, a few womanly persuasions, properly disguised,
might attain the desired result, and it would be, I fan-
cied, a result of great importance to my husband's
side. My well-known Northern birth and generally
supposed Northern prejudices, and perhaps some nat-
ural tact, made me,. I suppose, chosen to apply these
~' womanly persuasions.~~
Having quite satisfied niyself of their desire, I
amused myself watching their plans of attack. The
MajQr, who was clearly an ambitious, dashing man,
recognized soni6thing of similar qualities in me, and
only doubted" if I had the grit to do this thing." I
think Mr. Beames was a man of a higher order of mind,
and must have known that I could not work except in
confornuty with my own convictions. Mr. Miles had
implied his motive-key in his half-heard speech to my
husband; for, after all, people judge us very much af
ter the fashion of their own order.
"Well," said the Major, "things look much as if
there was a prospect of a lively time before a year has
passed. The days are approaching; they have already

commenced, I may say, that make history, Mrs. Ab-
erthnay. We are coming to the days that' will make
heroes of our countrymen, and days that raise up
Rienzis,"-a half glance at my Roman-like husband-
"and Ninas beyond the skill of any Bulwer to paint.
What Scott, what Shakespeare, will ever exhaust the
theme?"
*   "If not Scott or Shakespeare," I said, "a Sylvanus
and a Southworth. If you do no more, Major Mon.
treuil, you will give the foundation for a new American
literature. What is the old line: 'Blanche, Sweet-
heart, little dogs, and all,' Will have their bark at you,
or the other side. There was a woman whom nobody
knew, in New York, who saw fit to marry her father's
coachman, who, likely enough, had as fair a start in
life as many a worthy frien&amp; of the lady's father. One
could not undertake to tell the books that were written
on the subject; the veritable history of half a thousand,
more or less, heroines, black-eyed and blue, tall and
short, learned and simple, who devotedly loved and
frantically married into, the interesting social class
designated as gins. Think what a relief to our
authors to have a GRA~TD SouTHnR~ REBBLLION to
chronicle, instead of the now well-worn theme of do-
me~tic revolution."
"There is a world of meaning under Mrs. Aberth-
nay's jest,~' said my husband. "Our movement, be
its end ~rhat it may, will give us a national literature.


128              AT ANCHOR:                                             A STORY OF' OUR CIVIL w.ui..   129

We have very few late American books,-living,
breathing American works; no hash of English and
French romance, or ridiculous imitations of European~
society, but outright American books, with just such
tastes, thoughts, and doings as we see surrounding us.
I believe half of the success of Mrs. Stowe's Uncle
Tom's ccz1~n lay in the fact that it was a genuine
American book, which, even though it was hard upon
us, we read because it belonged to us. We shall have
a history, 'a national history, not a humdrum, worn-out
story of Pilgrims and Plymouth Rocks. We shall
have heroes now that will not only suffer and be pa~
tient, but toil and be strong. Altogether, I think we
shall put some new elements into t~ie minds of men
living now, and leave something more than a name fbr
ages yet to be."
"Who knows," said Mr. I3eames, "the legends yet
td cluster around our names,-the names of us who sit
here, under Mrs. Aberthnay's eyes, that are half ridi-
culing and half inspiring our enthusiasm? If I can do
no more, I will, at least, write a song, some of these
days, for the populace to sing; for there's more power
in~ the jingle of some popular rhymes than in half a
hundred 'speeches.' Witness the revolutionary 'Yan-
kee Doodle!"'
"We are laying a glorious foundation," the Ma*jor
now told us, having been too long kept from the
charge by our skirmishing, "as Mrs. Aberthnay, under

all her fine sarcasm does not fail to admit. I would
like to get through all our coming battles with my
1~ife and my eyes, for the comfort of one day reading
the attempts to do justice to the history that, as J said
before, we are making. But who can ever do justice
to the. boldness, skill, and courage of our men,-.to the
wit, the beauty, and the heroism of our Women?"
"You let in the woman element?" I asked.
"I should give up our cause as hopeless," he an-
swered, "were there not in every rank and degree
brave and beautiful women, with the address and the
courage to aid us. Never was there a wider sphere
for womanly work; and I know our Southern women
will be behind none, Spartans though they may be, in
showing this to be so. What a scope for their tact
and their talent, their courage and their tenderness,
while the weak are to be nerved, the vacillating to be
steadied, and the opposed to be converted
The Major had opened his battery, but paused for
ammunition, and in the pause Mr. Beames commenced
his attack.'
~~rot common pride and ambition merely," he
said "should nerve and lead us in these days, but the
thought that, through all age~, our names will be wa~
tered with the loving tears of a grateful people: the
thought that our hands are sowing the seed that will
ripen' into eternal fruit." '
"I fear, a poisonous fruit," I answered; "what bet..'
6*


130  AT ~CHORA sTORY OF OUR CIvIL WAR.                                                   13

ter can spring from such seditious seed ?" Mr. B3eames
had shot wide of the mark, and I. saw my reply had
staggered the Major. Mr. Miles dashed into the con-
versation perfectly unconcerned by any thing I could
say.
"It ain't every one as can understand them high-
floWn sentimentss" he informed us. "Some do, per-
haps, but we all has our motives. Some goes in, like
the Major, for the 'grit of the thing,' and for promotion,
like enough. Some goes in, like Mr. Beames, because
they hate the North, and do kind of believe the old
Union ain't exactly the thing."
" You make shrewd guesses," said my husband.
" How about the rest of us ?"
"I should say you, Mr. .Aberthxiay, take to the
thing because it's grand and romantic, and sounds like
Bruce and William Tell. I hope you'll get the glory,
sir. Some goes in, like Mrs. Aberthnay-" I
"But I don't ' go ini,'" I interrupted.
" But you will," he answered. " You've got the
nerve, and when your husband gets in a tight place
you, ain't. the woman to leave him there. You ain't a
going to crowd down all your fine ideas of things, and
leave Mr. Aberthnay down here among a parcel of
traitors, as you called us the other day."
" So you heard of that ?"
"Yes'm; and we knows very well it's what we'll
be called for a while yet. So you'll go in, Mrs. Ab-

I

180

AT ANCHOR :

'131

erthnay, and you'll be worth a dozen men; and when
you see what you can do you'll stay in."~
" What takes you in, may. I ask, Mr. Miles ?"
" I go in, ma'am, for a beef conti-act the Major has
promised me. That is in my own line, ma'am. We
-all has our motives."
"You are an observer of things, I see, Mr.
Miles."
" Yes, ma'am; it ain't my way to go through the
world with my eyes shut. I looks around and I sees
heaps of things that maybe other people don't think
.big enough to count: I counts them."
" As you have seen so much of the world," said the
Major, " suppose you tell us how we can take Fort
Blank, in case we need it ?"
" A dashing assault by a smart woman, and noth-
ing else," he answered, clapping his hand upon the
table. "The Captain is as afraid as death of wo-
men."
There was an awkward silence.
"I suppose you have travelled a great deal, Mr.
Miles," I said, to break it.
"Never outside of Virginny until now, ma'am.
Virginny's a likely old State."
" There will be lively times there one of these
days, if we ever come to blows," my husband re-
marked ; "Virginia and Kentucky will be our 'battle-
.grounds."


132                AT ASCH~oR:

182

"I hope not," Mr. Beames remarked. "Virginia's
more than a likely State, as our excellent friend ob-
serves; it is a noble old State, which even the Yankees
admire. I cannot imagine such a thing as soldier-tents
in view of those grand old nia~nsions, unless placed
thare for a holiday parade. I never could see why any
fault was found with Thackeray's 'J'~rgi~nians.' I think
he gave the spirit of the State truthfully, and in a way
to do her sons honor."
"I wonder if Kentucky will come over?" the
Major asked.
"Has not our excellent going-to-be President an
interest in Kentucky?" Mr. Beames interrogated..
"If so," my husband 'answered to both questions,
"the worst will be that it will be neutral, which will
do very well as a means of communication with the
~"orth, should harsh measures be used."
~' You talk," I said, "as. if your Mr. Lincoln were
already elected, and had declared war against you."
"Elected he is pretty sure to be," responded the
Major, ".~nly you must not allow your Northern friends
to crow over you in advance; declare war he never
will, I am afraid."
*   "Afraid?  You officers are so bloodthirsty!" I
* commented.
"Iii till be almighty tough work to carry Virgin-
ny," said Mr. Miles; "she's too near Ohio to have
much pluck."

I

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      133

"Ohio is near enough to keep her straight, that's
true," said the Major; "but we can count on one of
her sons," smiling upon Mi~ Miles.
"If Virginny goes, I goes," answered that gentle.
man; "I goes with my State."
"May every State that hesitates pay dearly for
her cowardice!" the Major observed with emphasis.
"Let them choose at once, and be open about it."
"No doubt we shall all pay dearly for our course,"
returned Mr. Beames. "No one ever attempted a re-
form of the most moderate dimensions without paying
for it; but we have the glorious consolation of know-
ing that we buy our liberty cheap at any price, and
we must beprepared for whatever may come."
"We shrink from nothing," my husband said, with
a fire that made me proud of him; "we are prepared
to sacrifice every thing except the principles which
are dearer to us than life, even than those we hold
dearest. I bid you farewell now, my friends, in doubt
and indecision in regard to the future; but about one
thing there can be no hesitation* among patriots--.
we will be free I"
So we said good-bye, checked our trunks, and
started for Boston.
At this point I am requested by an interested and
evidently appreciative listener, t&amp; state what dress I
wore upon this occasion. I am very sorry. to disap-
point any who have counted upon a blaze of diamonds,

133


'S

134              AT ANCHOR.
but truth compels me to state that my dress was a
gray travelling-dress, very slightly rimmed with blue,
and that I had my hair plain, ready for my bonnet,
which had not. then, you remember given place to
the present jauuty style of head-dress.
CHAPTER XHt
I w~r home to the North, but home to th
did not bring me childhood and its buoyant;
was still a weary woman, fighting something
fate, but which others, if they knew, would
perverse will.
I had a ti4al I had not anticipated; the
my world, saw proper to go into raptures o
husband, so good, so brave, so accomplished
would have supposed they wondered how
chose me. Then I was told, at every step, of
dulgence, his generosity, and his kindness to
one seemed to recognize that I was his equal
as his wife, and that I took liberty and care
due. Are our men sa~a~es that one should co
with surprise and admiration upon their ev
preach to civilization?
Oh! what aggravating people there are
world! People with their little minds and thei
less tongues, who make more misery than wa
famines and pestilences; people whom you

.e North
~r, and I
I called
call my
world,
ver my
.! One
Lie ever
his in.
~ne; no
as well
as my
*mment
~ry ap.
~n this
ir rest-.
rs and
cannot


A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.

136            ATANCHOR:

challenge to ~fafr fight,' nor satisfy with less then half
your happiness, nor dose, nor doctor, nor diet! These
were the people that widened the little brook between
Carl and me, until it became, I feared, an impassable
river. I feared, for, strange to say, I had not yet
learned to hate my husband; I was not even careless
of his love; whether it was my pride or my vanity, or
some unknown emotion, I clung to his love; I was
more tenacious of it, more fearful of losing it, than I
could have been had I loved him. To have Carl's
heart shut' to me as mine was to him, was the one
most agonizing thought of my married existence;
and these people, with their homilies and their excla-
mations, their raillery at Carl's devotion, and their
congratulations to both of us, bade fair to realize that
burning fear of mine. I knew that the time must
come;-all the world knows it finds a foothold often
even where love has been, and never fails to reign in
the unprotected places where Love has never set up
defences,-4he time when I should weary of Carl,
should hate him really, long to have him out of my
sight, and pray, if I dared, for the day to come that
would remove every vestige of his influence, every
sign of remembrance out of my life. I used to think,
as by some strange fascination, of that day, and to pic-
ture myself bound to this~ man whom I. no longer sim
ply endured, but actively detested. You may think it
~: drove me to an attempt at loving him, who was in

every way so worthy of love, but I had long before
resolved I could not love him; I had married him
with his eyes and mine wide open to the fact; of
course I could not change.
Few people will fail to start when I call that sum-
mer of 1860 a weary summer for it was generally a
gay season; more people went travelling than usual,
and as they were warm but healthy months, the change
of air and change of scene benefited all who had them,
and looks and spirits prospered accordingly. Wide-
Awake processions made the nights brilliant outside,
and theatres and parties kept brilliance within. People
were lively, confident, and seemed to hold money
lightly in their hands. How many, it hurts my heart
to think how many, took their leave of joy, and ease;
and sunshine that summer, to them so beautiful, and
forbearing to prophecy aught that could dim its bright-
ness. I toiled through it as best I might; I listened to
the hollow talk of those around me, and I fancied I
felt what prophets feel, when they stand within the
gates of a city unconscious that destruction and wrath
is coming speedily.
Carl and I were growing more and more distant to
each other; the constant 'presence of visitors at my-
uncle's house kept us apart during 'a greater portiQn
of the day, and when we found ourselves, without
our will, in each other's presence, it was only to real-
ize how far we were from that happy trust which the


138              AT ~cHO~:                                               A STOuT OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      139

world imputed to us; and we sat constrained and often
long Ailent, trying to think of things to say, which, if
thought and said, sounded so forced and hollow, that
we~ as* by a mutual agreement, came at last to give up
the attempt at conversation. I think Carl had greatly
counted on my visit North to bring us closer together,
by throwing me more upon his care; but it had had
the opposite effect, and we were both wearied nigh
unto death. And now Carl no longer sought my
love; more and more I saw he no longer let his eyes
rest on me with wistful tenderness, and that more and
more he grew abstracted and self-absorbed. It was
easy to see how it would end,-indifference on his'
part, hatred on mine. I was not yet twenty-five years
old, and the prospect was not a pleasant one. My
husband,-through all he would be my husband still,-
migbt replace me with enthusiasm for his country, but
I had nothing to put where his love had been; and
while every hour that love was slipping like sand
through my fingers, the world cried out, "Oh, incom-
parable pair! Oh, noble husband and devoted wife!"
Just about so much does this world know!
Of my old friends nearly all were as I left them.
Rate was not married, and was travelling somewhere
among the mountains; Mr. Stuart was in business in
New York; Mary Allen and Emma Lewis were both
in convents; Emma, among the Sisters of Charity. I
went to see her; I love these dear, Martha-like sisters.

I

There is magic in the very tones of their voice, mag-
* netisin in the touch of their hands,-..-those patient,
never idle hands; and comfort comes with every step
of those willing feet vowed to' walk in ways of sin and
sorrow and pain, untouched, unhurt, as the children in
the fiery furnace.
" How did it come into your mind?" I asked
Emma.
"I thought of it first," she answered, "that night
at your uncle's, when we went in to see Mary Allen,
do you remember? and for a while I thought of it as a
pleasant dream, until it grew a longing, then a hope.
I am a woman too much after the manner of Martha,
and it was natural I should choose to join the Sisters
of Charity, who have the love and the faith of Mary
and the activity and solicitude~ of Martha. There is
nothing,-I mean when I was in the world,-nothing
touched me more than the simple unaffectedness of
1~hese dear Sisters; there is no bitterness, no contempt
real or assumed, of the world they have left; it was a
good world, they say, and they liked it, but they liked
this life better; they are still a part of the world, still
toiling in it, still breathing its air, though purified by
prayer and good works. Another thing which is
characteristic of our Sisters, they never affect to~ have
been' any thing while in that world; there are no half-
drQpped sentences, no conscious glances, no affected
interest or indifference which intimates,-.--Ionce wa8 a


140              AT A TCUOR:

lad~i, with a~1 these things that ddight you, and more
than th~se at my command. Our Sisters have forgot-
ten they ever lived, a life of gaiety and of fashion;
simply and quietly they have put on the dress of the
Sisterhood, and if worn with old-time elegance, or with
unaccustomed awkwardness, it is the same."
"You are right, Emma; I have seen these things,
too. God bless dear Mother Seton, who brought these
dear black caps to ~how us what women may be!
These little things are mighty indexes, and they are so
winning that one thinks no more than the lady her-
self of her position passed, but sees in her only a min-
istering angel, sweeter and lovelier in her charity than
all the gold and gems of earth could make her with-
out. If any thing should ever happen to Carl, I shall
come here for rest, 7e8t, the blessed, blessed word!"
you will not come in vain, Georgie; a nun's
)ld kill you I am sure, but our sisterhoQd will
~a~your talents and fulfil ~ll your ambitions; there
is~nb stagnation here. I am teaching now; by and by,
after 1 have taken the black veil, I may be sent to
some hospital. I long for that; my work is too easy
here; this sentiment, however, lays me open to self-
commendation; the first lesson we learn here is sub-
mission. And now, Georgie, of yourself; do you like
* the South? What a question to ask, as if you would
not like a desert now."
4"KNot in the least should I like a desert, married

1~

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.       141
2
or unmarried. I like the South as well as I expected;
my life is very quiet and monotonous; nothing ever
happens ; my husband is never sick, and I am always
* well, so we are spared even the small excitement of an
occasional visit from the country doctor."
"Is there. not more than usunl excitement about
the elections? I hear the school girls talking about
them occasionally."
"Yes, there is a great deal; the South threatens to
secede if an abolition President is elected. Do not
imagine, Emma, if you were fifty times a nun, that you
have no duty left to your race and your country; the
smallest duty you have is that of interest; you are to
teach not merely a b ab, and 2 and 2 are 4, but to
teach that fidelity to God absolutely requires loyalty
to our country, a loyalty that binds women as well as
men, Sisters of Charity as well as members of the
Cabinet, girls at school and men in business, all ages
and classes. A Catholic priest has no more right to
give absolution for disloyalty unrepentant, than for~
robbery or perjury. You do not forget these things?"
"I may be a Sister of Charity," Emma said, "but
I have not lost my country or my sex. More than
ever am I taught to do my duty scrupulously, and
next to my God is my duty to my country."
"You are ~ true, good woman, 'Emma, and I see
that you will be elevated, not repressed; by this
change in your life. I am going t&amp;say goodbye to


142                AT A~wHoR:

you now, God only knows when I shall see you again,
*for no one knows what may happen within a year, nor
where I may be, nor what wounded men, Northern or
Southern, you may be nursing. Pray for me, Emma;
I have some trials, I am hard and sadly in need of
softening grace."
So I left Emma, one out of my old circle of friends
joyous and contented. Mary Allen I did not see; she
belonged to a community of nuns who lived entirely
within their convent walls, and lacked the genial light-
hearfedness of the Sisters, and I had no desii~e to see
Mary growing "old and formal, fitted to her petty
part."
My Cousin Florence, to my Aunt Graham's un-
bounded satisfaction, was married to a wealthy New
? York merchant. Hal was pursuing some other idol
,~ ~vith~ the same ardor with which he had at one time
folloWed Mary Allen. I saw Hal; he was fa~
proa~hing that period in the life of a gay young
bachelor when the portion of parties~ that comes before
supper,. proves very tedious, when sweet eyes and
graceful forms no more delight, when the last novel
becomes stupid, the new singer a flat, and things alto~
gather a' bore, or as Mantalini elegantly observes, a
dom'd horrid grind.
Uncle Tom, dear Uncle Tom, how much he loved
me! was the same hospitable old bachelor as before,
but he complained bitterly that Kate never gave~him

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL wku.       143
a decent cup of tea. He joined my husband in his
solicitations to me to remain at the North during the
winter; not that he believed there would be any.
trouble-for he pooh! poohed! the idea-but to ease
Carl's mind, he said.
I was not so fierce against staying as I had been,
for Carl was now so distantly, politely kind to me, that
I sometimes half fancied he wished me out of his way,
for his sake as well as for my own. Sometimes I
thought if he *ere separated from me the old love, the
old yearning, would spring up in the absence, and make
him again my lovar; but there was a possibility that
he might like his freedom better and better, and that
the separation begun in affection might end in life-long
estrangement. Yoit know I had not, yet reached the
point in our lives when I was to hate Carl, and so this
possibility frightened me,-I could be frightened,-and
made me shrink from the dreadful picture of myself; a
mark for every one's wonder and astonishment: a
woman neither maid, wife, nor widow. Considerable
of the old spirit had died out; I could think in quite a
listless way of Carl's going alone into danger and
death, and of myself resting in peace and security;
for after all, I was not sure I could make the danger
and death less real and sorrowful by my presence.
You must not think Carl was unkind to me, for he
was only too kind; every arrangement was made with .; '~
special reference' to my will and pleasure. He bim~.~ ~


144              AT ANCHOR                                             A STORY OF OUR CIVIL W~.        14$

self was always at my disposal to go or come as I
chose, and he intended to prove himself kinder still,
by never asking me of my heart any more than he
would had I been another man's wife, a deference that
was gall and wormwood to me. How could I break it 2
I certainly could not say, "Carl, make love to me."
I could but wait, patiently as long as I could, then in
anger and indignation.
Partly because I thought it might move him, and
partly because I cared, or thought I cared very little
what became of me, I yielded, coldly enough, to their
wishes, and said, that as my duty was to obey my
husband, I would of course remain at the North if he
'wslTled it.
"I do wish it," he said.
"I submit, of course," I answered, and turned back
tQ ,my book.
jjj~ "I do' not wish to offend you," my husband said,
$ ~$ when we were alone, "but I must insist upon your
~I remaining here; I am confident there will be war be.
4V tween the two sections, and the safer place will be the
North, and the happiest place, certainly, for yc~u whose
sympathies are with the North."
"I thought we had settled the question before we
left Charleston. I was not aware, nor Aid I in the
least suspect the trip North which was to give me so
niuch pleasure, was intended merely as a trap to lure
me~'here and leave me."

"It was not intended to leave you; but' since I
have been here I have learned the insecurity of 'a honie
at the South, and it has made me most anxious to have
you left here."
"You are very solicitous about my happiness."
"I wish to do for you the little that I can. I
know I once thought it in 'my power to minister more
fully to it, but I know now that I must be grateful if
I can secure you against bodily discomforts."
"Then you .do not love me any more," I forced
myself to say.
"What is my love to you? A constant axinoy-
auce, a source of vexation to us both. Perhaps
wheii we see each other again we may understand
each other better; I shall pray God that it may be so,
as I never prayed for any thing before."
"I have tried t4 do my duty to you, Carl."
"Only too well; but it is no pleasure to me,-~rather
a pain,-to be the cause of so much constraint to you.
I must go back early to-morrow; you know, of course, 
*that~ if at any hour your present home wearies you I
will come for you, be it through what it may.'~
"You are an excellent husband, Mr. Aberthnay; a
lady told me the other day that for dressing ix~ ~ty1~
and attending to my wisbe; you were unrivalled, I
shall not write for you to come; you can choose your
own time; ~hi0 Jw~rne ha~ always bcex~ ~ pl~as~n~ p~
~ me2'
K' ~


AT A.~NcnoR:
'"I do not doubt it I have arranged the money
affairs with your' uncle."
A pang went through my heart. "it sounds as 'if
you meant to leave me forever," I said.
'KNot'at all, only until such time as you say. It is
nQt 'safe for you at the South."
"Then I am decidedly to remain?"
i' You are your own mistress, of course, but it is
my wish that you should do so." And he took up a
bk. I sat some time in silence, then I went into the
next room, our sitting-room, dimly lighted from the
light in the room I had left
My thoughts were intensely bitter; I could only
believe 1~e wished to get rid of me, and the two kinds
of pride, the pride that would not force myself on him,
and the pride that would not be flung aside like a
bi~oken plaything, chased each other through my mind,
while I lay on a lounge in the darkest corner of th~
room, and watched my husband in ,the clearer light,
reading just as I had left 'him. Very handsome, even to
a degree that might be called beautiful, 'was my hus~
band; fair, very fair, with eyes as bhie as a summer
~ky,~.'-4~luer strn, more like that sky in its deep'starry
~pleui1or,.-.~eyes that could glow with love, scorch, with
contempt, 'freeze with coldness, kill with indilTerence;
eyes 'that, unstirred by a~y thought of the morrow's
par~1rig, rea4 qiiiegy while I lay'aj~d inwardly writhed.
Qyer and over again with a~ persistmi~y that ariger~d
~ue rail through~ my mind those lines in the ~1'iiw&amp;98.

A STORY. OF OUR CIVIL WAR.     14!?

*     "Oh, tell her, Swallow, thou that knowest each,
That bright and fierce and fickle 'is the South,
And 4ark and true anil tender is the North."
Bright fierce and fickle though he might be, I resolved
he should not escape me'; stay I might until he had
gone, and then I would go too; I would track him
night, n&amp;ontide, and morn, in some disguise always.
near him, not from love, but pride, the pride that
hated him who oppressed it so.
I knew an evil spirit possessed me, and I tried the
charms of music to exorcise it; but it moved neither
the evil spirit nor my cahw husband reading in the
library, for I could hear the slightest rustle of his
book, although the change of my position hid from
my view his Roman-like face, By aiid by out of my
irresolute chords there was moulded an air, and out of
my restless thoughts some words that sung as I sung
them had both point and force, though weak enough,
perhaps, as I give them now, unpolished, or in any
way bettered from that rough dash:
"Oh, your sternness becomes you well, mon brave,
And goes to my poor heart,
And cuts with agony too deep to tell
So well you act your part.
I'm grieving in a sad, sad maze, mon bi*ve~
I'm but a woman weak,
~One on whom it i~ 1~ut only' right and just
You should your g~e~nee wreak, ~,


148                AT ANC~O~.

"I hold my heart 'neath aching lids, mon brAve,
Once mine you called sweet eyes,
Now must they weep if coldly he but bids,
To whom their duty lies.
I've prayed to God that I might die, mon brAve,
No mQre to mar thy life;
rye prayed in my white shroud to lie, mon brAve,
No more to move thy strife."
Before I had finished I heard my husband lay
down his book, then he came across the room and
stood by me.
"Georgie," he said, standing there, "I cannot bear
it, not even for your good. Will you go back with
me?"
"Yes," I answered, "I wilL"

CHAPTER XIV.
* WE were back Southjust before the elections; the
excitement was terrible, but I liked it better than the
old calm. Men like my husband who looked deeply
and were prepared for the worst, were the only calm
men one met; the women Were fierce for war, for war,
as we i~ead of it, is romantic enough, and in our long,
luxurious peace how could we realize its horrors?
My husband had had me do enough shopping, while
at the North, to last us for a ten years~ siege, it seem-
ed; and now he was busy superintending every thing
on the plantation himself. Courteously and tenderly
be cared for me; but it was with the chivalry of an
old4ime knight for the lady under his protection, more
than the ardent love for her whose colors he wore.
He built every manner of defence around me, but
never warned~ me, cautioned, or denied me in any
thing. When he went up to Charleston in~ the winter
he attempted no remonstrances against my accom-
p~nying him, although I was sure he knew there were
dangers at every step foi' me there. mostlyy all of


those of Northern principles who could, had already
left'the South; in the country towns a few had been
forced away; ~nd as violent demonstrations were not
modified for the sake either of rank or sex, it was
wonderful that I walked as safely as I did.
A great many sad scenes passed under my eyes, in
which I could not interfere. I saw one, one day as I
was passing by one of the hotels, shutting my ears as
best I could to the swearing crowd which had collect-
ed on its steps. A " Yankee" was being examined
by the self-constituted court of inquiry, pretty cer-
tain of the sentence usually given to all "spies," or
those suspected of being opposed to the South. Just
as. I came near the little knot of men, the victim,
whom I could not see, appeared to have succeeded in
imposing a kind of silence upon them, and to be
addressing them in his own defence. Something in
the matter or manner of his language made me pass
very slowly by.
"I tell you I am not a spy," he was saying; "I
have nothing t6 do with public affairs; I came here on
my own private account; I have seen nor heard noth.
ing that I care to remember. My ears and eyes have
been only for one whom I came here to find, and whom
I Znust findZ'
This was as much as they allowed him to say; abut
eventhe Northern accent would have won me, so obey..
ing t~u impulse I stopped and looked at the crowd, who

were laughing and swearing heartily; fortunately I
recognized among them a man who had done some
work for my husband.
"What is the matter, Taylor?" I asked of him.
"Only another spy; we're going to give him a lit-
tle~ airing, ma'am."
"It's very foolish," I said. "What is one man,
especially one man who does not care for either side?
Yes," I continued, seeing I had attracted the atten-
tion of one or two others, "it is very foolish; such
things won't frighten the Yankees; it will only make
them mad for nothing. Wait until 'old Sumter comes
down if you want to scare them. This man can't
hurt us. Let him find her;" I said her designedly;
"there's a kind of romance in every man's heart. We
shall have work enough by and by; who minds one
man?"
"Is he a friend of yours?" one asked.'
"I have never even seen him," I answered;" but I
want you to keep your fight for better use."
Two or three grumbled, one or two laughed, and
they all stared; one spit out his tobacco juice and
swore I was right: "The d-d Yank might go to
hell and be d-.--d for all he cared."
I gave this one some money to drink confusion to
the yankees, and with one or two jests and threats the
group separated, to straggle into the bar-room. As
soon as they were gone I went back to the man; and.

150              AT ANCHOR:                                         A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      151

150

151

AT Anonon:


152                AT A~rcHoI~:                                               A TOI~Y OF OUI~ CIVIL wAB.        153

spoke to him. "Do not trust to a second chance of this
or any kind. These men will soon be back, mad with
liquor; there will be no rescue then. I do not know
who you are, but I will do for you what I can. Go to
the next street. I will drive and meet you there; and
if you take my advIce, you will let me send you at
once to leave the, city. You have not an instant to
- ' lose; do not lose time talking thanks; for the sake of
the little a Southern woman has been able to do for
you, go back and speak with as little bitterness as
possible of the South."
As soon as I had rapidly spoken these words, we
separated to meet again as I had arranged. The car-
ria~ge had been left at a store where I found it; at my
hasty gesture the stranger entered it, and I-I had no
choice-followed. I expected to save him, having
*cQmmenced, and I knew a private carriage, especially
with a lady in it, was protection.
*       When we were face to face, and the carriage had
started, I for the first time really looked at my com-
panion's face.
*      It was Gilbert.
I thought I had forgotten having first hated him;
for a moment I remembered him intensely; the next
I remembered all that stood between.
"You have done a strangely rash Thing, oh man
of exceeding great calmness!" I said.
"Yes~" he replied; "but it has repaid me .well,~

and I owe yOU my'life. I owe you more than my life;
I owe you joy that you did this thing, and for-me."
* "I did not know you, did not dream who you~
were until five minutes ago."
"And had you known, would you have left me to
their mercy ?"
I felt his dark eyes bent upon me, burning into
mine, as of old; heroes have faced death with less
courage than I fh~ced him there.
"I could not do less for an old friend than for a
stranger," I answered quietly; "but I should scarcely
have succeeded so well had I known you. We are go-
ing now to my home; supposing you a stranger, I in-
tended leaving you here, where there is moderate
safety; but as it is, I prefer to go home, and then let
Jack take care of you. You see I look upon it as a
matter of course that you will leave the city at once.
If there is any thing toward the accomplishment of
your work here that either Mr. Aberthuay or I can do,
do not hesitate to command. us."
"I have found the one I sought in finding you," he
returned, "and am now willing enough to go. It is
true the last words I heard from you were of well de-
served hatred; but feeling confident you have been
too happy in your new relations to cherish any but
kind and forgiving feelings toward your old acquaint~
ances, I ventured to come to you in place of your un-
cle, who is rendered very infirm by his late accident,
17*


154'           . AT A~CROR                                            A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.       155'

yet who, nevertheless, was resolved some appeal
shotild be made to you, some assistance given you to
leave this accursed city, for it is terrible to think of'
*the trials of body and mind that must beset you here.
You' of the South are deceiving yourselves with the
belief that 'the North will not fight. I tell you the
North wrn light, and fight with a force and persistency
such as the 'world has not lately seen. You at the
South are rushing headlong to your destruction; we
at the' North are quiet in the consciousness of power.'
For what has the South, with the curse of treason
f
upon its head, to oppose to the legioxis of the North,
strong in the knowledge of right and loyalty? There
is no safety anywhere in the South for Northern men
or Northern. principles; even Mr. Aberthnay's influ-
ence cannot make you secure, after the storm bursts,
if you remain true to your country, and it is not in
your nature 'to' be false to it. Your mind is too clear
a mind to be deceived by any secession sophistry; you
know very well your duty to the nation before the
State; you cannot blind yourself by any States Rights'
arguments,-the cursed heresy that threatens the life
of our Constitution, that 'has been fed and fostered,
cherished and petted, until it has grown strong enough
to poison, adder-like, the hands that forbore to kill it
in its infancy. If ever you desert your country and
league with her enemies, you must "do it with your
eyes open to the crime. Surely you will not do it.

Too well I remember you as a brave girl praying
for a martyr's trials. I have heard you too eloquently~
and too powerfully upholding adherence to principle
through all things, to believe you will do the thing
you have so often scorned, yield right to expediency."
"I do not need to be toki my duty," was all the
reply I could force myself to make.
"I know it, dear Miss Vane; I beg your pardon
for addressing you by the old name. And knowing
your duty, how can you stay here ?* It is madness to.
attempt, it; folly to refuse safety. We ar~ just learn-
ing, the best of us, what 'it means to love our country,
to love its flag. We find it inspires a love' as passion-
ate and intense as any possible emotion; by and by
you will hunger and thirst to stand under the folds of
our stars and stripes, when, perhaps, ~it will be too
late. For the sake of that old. flag, for the sake of the
family ties it suggests, if not the principles it rep~e-
sents, come back to it. I cannot tell how small you
were when I first held you up to see it floating from
Bunker 11111 and Fanuiel Hall on national holidays;
nor how many years before you could add, two and
two together we tried, you and I, to count how many
flags we could see from steeple and spire, and how
many stars each one held. Can you bear 'to feel you
can never look upon that flag again except as an enemy
and' an outcast? Come back to it, Georgie, while yow
can; do not stand apart' from it in its hour of trial..


158                 AT A~~TCR0R:                                                A STORY 0~' OU1~ CIVIL WAR.        1'57

We never had a sorrow or a wrong that it did not at~
tei~pt to redress; we had never a thought but
of all rightful freedom under it, and it made us pros~
porous, free, ~rnd happy at home, and honored abroad;
shall we desert it now? Can yo'u,-you born in the
'very dearest home of Liberty, in the proud mansion
of our country's favorite sons,--can you, with your
dauntless will and heart, fear to act according to your
convictions?
"This is the terror that almost paralyzes your,
uncle; the terror that exists whichever way you do-
cid~. if you retain your principles, we dare not think
of the consequences to you here; if you are false to
them,'what will be the consequences in the great here-
after? At home in the North, duty and convenience
will walk hand in hand; you will hear only the brave
w*~rds of loyalty,-see only the glorious deeds of
rightful government. I held your uncle's hand in
ukine, and promised I would never return alive to him
until I had seen you, and with all my power and will
had begged you to leave this city of traitors., Your
uncle again and ~again made me return to him to add
some argument or entreaty to those already given me in
trug~ for you. He told me how every spot of ground,
* ev~eryroom in the house, bears marks of your late pre~.
sen~e, speaks to him of you; and how ean he ever bear
* to~see them with the knowledge that you 'have turned
traitor to all that he taught you to love and reverence?

How can he, proud as he has ever been of you,
bear the sneers of envious souls, the scorn of noble
minds, and his own bitter knoWledge that you have
deserted your country and league with. its enemies?
It will amount to that if you stay now; you know it
will."
"I have listened to you without interruption," I
said, "not because I have heard or expected to hear
~an argument or ~a plea my own heart has not already
made, but because you shall not say I feared to listen.
I will not say how I may be tried, nor if I shall pass
through the trial without denying my faith; but this I
I can and will say, that I shall never violate my own
sense of 'right so far as to leave the man I took at
God's altar for my husband, until he himself forces
me to leave him; and he shall never force me until he
has first learned to ~hato me. He is mine, and I am
his; if he were a robber or a murderer I should not
desert him, no more shall I now. My home is with
him, and here I staymaking my two duties harmonize
if I can, if not-"
"You cannot, and your first duty is to your coum-
try. Mr. Aberthnay himself always wished you' to
remain with your uncle until there was qmiet again.
Say only that if he wishes it you will leave, and I will
take you safely to your old home; nor, as that does not
please you, I will curry back your promise, and gaiu-
ing it leave you at once, and forever if you s~y s~.


158'              AT' A~CEOR:                                          A STORY O~' ' OU~ CIVIL WAR.    159

Say that you will, Georgie, for the sake of your friends,
yout name, your character, your principles, your coun~
try, your, religion, and your God, for they all ask it;
say you will return."
"I have given my answer," I said, as we left the
carriage, and stood under the shadow of the trees in
the dusk of the evening, at my own door. "My. car~
riage is n~w at your service'; do not think of returning
for any thing to the hotel, but get out of the city to
night; if possible; you must make it possible. Tell
them at home that the South is firm, and a hundred
times stronger than they think,-4e11 them that what~
ever I do, they need not blush for me. I thank them
all that they remember me still; I thank you~ too,
Mr. Stuart, for the effort you have made. Whatever
happens, whatever they hear of me at home, let them
no~~ dare judge me; and you, Gilbert, you must not
reproach me, even now.~~
He bent down under the shadows of the trees, and
quietly said: "You 'shall not be judged nor reproach-
ed; but I had rather you had left me 'to the mercy of
those men, than that from your own words I should
learn the mission which I risked my life to fulfil should
have failed."
I turned to the house, and he walked deliberately
to~'Vhe carriage, whose hur~'ying wheels sounded like
~the angry thi~eatenings of fate as they rumbled ah~ng
the s~mingly deserted street~

F had been victor in the contest, it is true, but it
was a victory dearly won. It was an hour or two before
I felt myself able to meet nay husbands who had come:
home some few minutes after. I had left Gilbert.
I found him in the library, with his head resting
on his folded arms, and his arms on the table. He
scarcely looked at me as I entered, which was strange,
for he always received me as politely, and with almost'
as much ceremony, as if I had. been a visitor. I felt
tenderer toward him for the struggles I . had~ been
through that afternoon; but I said only a few com~~
monplace words, as I made some little changes in the
arrangement of the curtains and the furniture.
"So," he said to me at last, "so you have come
out as a public speaker, have you? And for the benefit
of Gilbert Stuart; it is very interesting, indeed it has
quite a touch of romance in it. And what, I wonder,
is Mr. Gilbert~Stuart doing here; he'd a great deal
better be at home ploughing his old Massachusetts
farm. Very likely he would like to take you home
with him,-.why not go?"
Poor fellow! ho'i~ lie must have suffered before
he could insult me!
"IVZ&amp;y? Because my husband is here."
"Yes, it is my fault; I who brought you to this;
I who keep you here. Why did I ever enter your
uncle's house and partake of his hospitality to return'
it in this way? A fine story that man has to carry

4

U

158

159

AT' ANCHOR :


161

1~o A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR. AT A!~'OHOI~

baGk 'of my brutality, of me who keep you here!
Why not go.; the North is at rest, it is only we who
~u~'er; leave us ito our fate. Go, Georgie."
" I thought we had -settled that question times
enough," I said. "Are you tired of me, Carl ? V
"Tired? I am tired of every thing;, myself and life,
and with it all I am killing you with the contest
between your divided duties."
"My duties are not divided," I- answered, meeting
his vehemence as I would a child's, and lifting the
bright rings of hair from his forehead with the same
kind of tenderness; "when will you cease to fear for
me?"
"Never, Georgie, while I live; I took cruel ad-
vantage of your kind heart once,, though God knows I
thought no wrong, and 'the memory of that day stands
a0(a constant reproach t&amp; me. Oh! could I but have
seen clearer the happiest way for you! had only had
strength to sacrifice myself for you! And you,
Georgie, why did you ever marry me?"
"Because you asked me," I answered; "you did
not expect me to ask you, did you ? ~'
"Don't laugh; it sounds so horrible. In a . few
bours we may see things that will prevent us from
ever laughing again."
"What has happened now?" I askeil, eating my.
self by him.
"There is no doubt that ships are outside the~

bar trying to re4~nforee Sumter; they must not
enter."
"But this is an old story, Carl, it may vanish like
the rest."
"G d grant it may not," he answered; "would to
God the first blow were~ struck, and we were fairly in
action ; this suspense is killing us and our cause. Our
Governor is unsatisfactory, and we only half know
who are with us."
"Is every thing ready in case of an attack?"
"Ready! we have been ready too long; we want a
decisive act, something that will show the men of the
South, yes, and the men of the North too, that we are
~n earnest; we want our men to feel they are 'in for
it,' past choice, past. change; this they will not feel
until the Federal Government has declared war
against us. God speed ~he day! I cannot face these
dangers for you, Georgie. If I were. in the North
now, with my sympathies as they aee, I should be wild
as a caged lion."
"I am going to bear it easier than that," I said.
"So long as there was chance forchoice I spared neither.
logic nor persuasion to urge you to make it with 'your
country; you have made it against your country;
you think. yoi~i have done right, I think you hare
done wrong; but it makes no difference in my regard.
for you. I cannot change my sentiments; we owe
allegiance to the United States, not to North or South.


162           AT AnHoR.

Because you are my husband I shall stay here ; because
th&amp; nation against which you rebel is ~my nation, I
sl~all love it and honor it as I always have. I shall
never by word, look, or deed, do any thing that I
think will aid your cause or hurt my own. I shall aid
mine when I can. I do not say I shall hurt yours, for
my honor to you requires me to keep to myself what
*     I kno'~w through you. I shall try to act according to
my conscience, and yet to injure neither you nor
myself. Does this satisfy you?"
*        "It ~s mo~v generous of you; but oh! Georgie,
what a maw I might be if I could only feel as others
do, that the eyes I loved watched me with pride and
encouragement."
"Dear Carl, if a man ever sinned in the belief he
was doing right you are that man; and I look to you
toY prove as true to the cause in whicl4 you believe as
if it were my cause too. May I ask you one thing:
if ever you see thi&amp;thing as I do, as a treason, a crime,
and a curse, will you give it up?"
"As sure as there is a sun in the heavens! T&amp;
draw my sword from its sheath bu1~ once, for a cause
whicib F no longer believed just and right, I would
count murder."
"You are a true man, Carl, God bless you. If
ever' angels wept over invincible ignorance they are
weeping 110w, but it is ignorance sb invincible that it
will si'~re you.

CHAPTER xv.
ONLY a few hours more and war was inaugurated ~
a few days further and my husband came to me in his
major's uniform, proud and exultant, though lie had.
come to say his last good-bye. It was our very first~
separation sin.e our marriage. I had been less than
woman had not my heart ached for him, as he stood
before me in his~noble manhood, hi~i ever bright face
radiant with enthusiasm, and every noblest emotion
of human life glowing in his eyes. I did not wish to
deceive him as I might if I showed him half my feel-
ing; for in his eager longing how could I hope he
would analyze my emotion, and say: "This she says
from pity, this from pride, this from native tender-
ness." I had,' at least, this honor left, that I would'
not give him hope I could not realize; so I bound
down my rising pity; and admiration, and intense
terror, and quietly as might be received his. last
convulsive embrace. He cried 'like a child then,
while I played with the bright rings of. hair that'
clustered lovingly around his forehead, cried

162


14AT ANCHOR

165

kissed my hands, my eyes, and hair, and reaching the
door turned back and strained me to his heart; then
the band played, an~d he mounted hi~ horse, and with..
out another word or glance, without lifting his eyes,
he took his place, and rode from my sight; a purer
face, a nobler form, never went to battle yet since
time began.
Do not ask me of the days that followed; there
was an agony in their strained calmness that has left
scars upon my soul that will last until I die.~ The
North I heard, had flown to arms as one man, but the
force. sent against us was far, far too small; I shudder-
ed when I heard the number. Seventy-five thousand
citizen soldiers to stand against the long-trained men
of the South, fighting, every man of them, as if the
.4
quarrel were his own, and on his own strength and
sJ~U depended its issue~ I shut myself in my own
hoi~se as much as I could to avoid hearing the insult-
ing remarks of the Union's foes. My husband's letters
were my only society; they were rich in interest, in
thought, and incident. I could not shut out the
rejoicing over the battle of Bull Run, which was a
graud ~Southern victory, and which was as fuel and
Ilame to the" Rebels." My husband's letters did not
speak of it as enthusiastically as I expected them to:
"It is, in some respects, a victory that will hurt us
much,'? ~e wrote; "it is the first intimation to, the
K~tEtb~v they are not out on a holiday pa~de; it
~-~-

has too many resources,. her enthusiasm is yet too un-
cooled, to make this defeat an exti~gtd8Aer, as our
good friend Montreuil, who is wild with joy, and very
tipsy with whiskey, calls it. Our victory has come
~ too soon for us, we shall be more easily discouraged
later, for it; t1m~ir defeat has come too soon for the
North; it is raw meat to a hungry buibdog, enough
to whet his appetite, not enough to satisfy his
hunger."
Again there were wild rej~icings over the massacre
atBalrs Bluff: "I cannot rejoice," wrote my liusban~t;
"I can glory in whipping my enemy in fair and open
fight, but there is little joy in a victory thrown into
your hands by the stupidity of a blundering general.
The greater part of the killed atBall's Bluff were Massa~
cbusetts young men, Harvard students, who had learn-
ed their law and. their loyalty in the same buildings
where I spent my early college days, dreaming of some.
body-you know whom! Po~or fellows! One man,
Dr. W-~--, I think you knew him, he was an old chum
of mine, I saw after the battle; he was shot in the
river trying to save a friend, to whom ~his ~is1er~was
engaged, and who was so wounded as to be unable to
swim. There will be wailing in old Massaohusett~
when she hears of these things. There were some
splendid things done on our side; not alone hrtvre
deeds, but things that showed the quickness and
*the 'rigiIane~ of our of~1cers; they are never caught

A STORY O~' OUR CIVIL WAR.

104


A STORY O~' OUR CIVIL WAR.      18~Z

108                AT ~OUOR~

napping, which, as you may divine, is worth more
than much skill and strategy."
I can hardly tell how I lived through the months
- that followed; after every 'skirmish even, I waited in
trembling fear for news of my husband, in giore than
mortal fear, for I sometimes questioned if God should
be less merciful than we, how could He who had said,
~"Render unto C~esar the things that are C~sar's,"
receive my poor husband if he should die in rebellion
against 'his Government, which had given him no
cause for complaint.
Until June my fears were without foundation; and
then one daya letter came to me by 'private hand,
from the son of one of my earliest Southern friends:
"It becomes my painful duty," he wrote, "to
inform you, my dear madame, that Major Aberthnay
Was quite 'severely wounded in a late skirmish with the
enemy, and has very much retarded hk own cure by
his restlessness and impatience to join his command,
or, since that has become impracticable, to go bome.
?Believing it to be entirely in accordance with' your
wishes, II have taken advantage of a favorable oppor-
tunity to write you, although the Major eariiestly
opposes any thing that can bring to you the knowl-
edge of his very painful condition,, which is much
more serious than he imagines. We have been so~
~fortunate as to b~ve the Major at our 'own house,
~where my sisters vie with each' other in their efforts to

assist him. Feeling confident you would scarcely
forgive me should I obey your husband's injunctions,
and leave you ignorant of these fa~ts, I have taken
the liberty of stating them. My leave, of absence,
which has enabled me to take medical care of ;Major
I
Abe$hnay, is about expiring, and I shall be obliged to
A'
1ea~re him to such care as very inexperienced nurses
can render; convinced, however, that the ~xaediuine
he least needs is that which a surgeon can bestow.
Although within the Federal lines, Major Aberthnay
is in perfect security. It will, I am sure, be the liret
impulse of your heart to endeavor to meet your hus.
band; and should you be able to leave home, I am
requested by my mother and sisters to assure you of a
hearty welcome: there will be very little difficulty in
eluding the Federal vigilance." Some directions,
simple enough, were then given, and with one or two
apologies for the intrusion, the letter concluded.
It would have been grief enough to know my hus-
band were wounded: to be told of it against his
wishes, to ~realize how great must have been' the dan~
ger when an almost' entire stranger thought it neces-'
sary to call me to his side, were emotions impossible
to describe. As quickly after 'reading the ~letter as. a
dress could be changed and a carriage ready I was
on my way to the depot, and fortunate enough, by
one 'hasty spring, to* find place upon the train just
movingg from the depot.

/


188              AT AIWHOR                                         A STORY OP OUR CIVIL WAR.      189

I wrapped myself in my travelling cloak and sank
back in my seat, motionless as a statue without from
the verysu~ging of my soul within. My whole life in
this world and the next seemed to hang upon the
chance of arriving in time, at least to hear the words
I deserved so little, "I forgive."
And if life were given to him longer still, how I
would pray until I had saved him from all further
dangers!
I never counted that journey by hours or by days.
I know nothing how I found my way. I remember
only a dark night, a lonely street, a quiet house, and
myself wildly begging admittance. It was very late;
a white-headed old gentleman cautiously opened the
door.
"Let me in, I beseech you," I said; "I am, Mrs.
tAberthnay."
He opened the door wider, and I sprang into the
hall; the gentleman opened the door of a room at one
side of the hall, and spoke my name; a group of fright-
ened, wondering faces, instantly gathered around me.
"I am Mrs. Aberthnay," I repeated; "is my hus-
band here?"
"Mrs. Aberthnay, is it possible? Come in, my
dear," one said, drawing me into the open room.
"You are very kind," I said; "I wauld like to see
my, husband, at once, if you please.. Dr. M- wrote
me he was here."

"Let me give you a cup of tea," she said.
"Is not my husband here?" I asked.
"lIe 'was wounded, you know," she answered;
"and have you come all this way alone, dear Mrs. Ab-
erthnay? I cannot tell you half how glad I am to
see you."
"I know, I am sure of, it, my dear Mrs. N-; but
do tell me of Major Abertlinay. Is he here?"
They looked from one to the other; and with that
mistaken kindness so many people use, they said a
few commonplace sentences, and tried to remove my
things. At last, however I forced the truth from
them.
Some one had told of my husband's concealment
at their house. He discovered his danger, and being
determined to die sooner, than be taken prisoner,
against their prayers and tears, and all their argu-
ments, he had insisted upon leaving them. David, his
trusty servant, was with him, and he had gone no one
knew where. There were only women in the house;
the gentleman who had opened the door was a neigh-
boi, who had come to them the day before from the
ruins of his once splendid home, burnt by the "Yan-
kees." There had been no one to accompany my hus-
~band, only David.
Then they told me of his wound, and of the rest-
lessness and impatience which had put him back very
much; and then that he grew sa4 and melancholy, and
8


1'IO             AT M{CHoR:                                         A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      1~1

made no effort to rally, seeming to take no interest in
any thing except the letters fror~i me, which had been
sent him from headquarters whenever there was an
opportunity, and then it was that Dr. M- became
frightened and sent for me, and I was too late.
No one tried to sleep that night; good, affectionate
women, they gathered around me, and told me every
incident of his stay at their house; how the doctor
had brought him there first, what they had thought,
'how courteously he had thanked them, how gently he
ever spoke to them, while they could see he was inward-
ly fretting; how one of the girls had been his favorite,
because she was like his wife. These and a thousand
trifles besides, such as love and tenderness are made
~f; they told me with as much minuteness as if I had
been Carl's own fond and loving wife; and I heard
Them, and thought in my heart how they would hate
me could they know the coldness, the cruelty I had
shown the man they honored so much.
* At' the first dawn of light I started under the
guidance of their one remaining servant, whose assist-
ance they forced me to accept, to find my husband;
and then it was* that, for the first time since the war,
as I neared the city,' I saw the old flag again.
I saw it again. Not the prodigal, with the weight
of hisphysical cares a~d moral guilt, leaving the husks
which the' swine did eat for the old home luxuries, ran
faster to meet his father on the way, wept with, greater

joy under that father's blessing hands, than I, when,
weary and almost heart-broken, a rebel and a traitor if..
you choose, I 'saw once more the flag I had deserted.;
saw it again, the dear familiar stripes, the bright, un-
fallen stars floating joyously, grandly, in the soft sum-
mer breezes,---" the loyal winds that loved it well." I
did not know I had so much of impulse and fond emo-
tion left within me, as I, who had shed not a tear dur-'
ing all these days of terror and suspense, who had ut-
tered not a single groan' when I learned the bitter
knowledge of their uselessness, sprang forward, while
tears rained from 'my eyes, to stand once more beneath
its fojds.
Another lay on the ground beside me; a soldier's
flag, stained with rain and mud, and oh! its olden
whiteness dark with blood; torn and tattered, thrown
aside as useless, perhaps, how eagerly I pressed it to
my lips, and caressed it and bathed it with my tears!
Just then the morning sun burst through the mists
that had hung over us, birds sang merrily on every
tree, and for a few moment I forgot I was searching
for a suffering, perhaps a dying husband.
"When I write Carl," I thought, "I will tell him
just how the morning looks."
Then I trembled and my strength left me. I might
never write to Carl again.
He was not at his old command; I had found
friends everywhere to help me pn, but none to tell iiie


1'72             AT AIWHOR.                                       A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      I~3

of h m. "He was on sick leave, and we supposed him
home," was my most satisfactory answer. Then I
hurried back, picturing Carl alread'~r there;. actually
looked for' him to meet me when I reached the city;
so thoughtful, so courteous had he ~ever been to me
that I could scarcely realize myself standing in the
hi~rrying crowd without Carl's eager face ~to welcome
me, CarPs protecting arm to lean upon. I rushed to
the house; it was dark and close; no one had entered
it, but .the servants coming and going, since I left.
Then I sat down and cried.
"Massa berry likely stop somewhere, he' be berry
tired and sick," suggested one of the servants,, and the
thought was a good one; and actingg upon it I found
comfort and consolation. .1 arranged the rooms; I
worked over Mrs. Glynn's receipt-book, preparing all
mannerr of delicacies to tempt hi~ taste; I sprang to the
door, if ever an officer passed the window; a hundred
times I cried, "This is he!" but Carl did not come.
Why should he? Had I been such a wife to him that
he should care to come? and if he did come, would he
be satisfied with tender nursing and dainty food?
But David same, and told me his story.
"Massa berry weak, me table and no house, no
nothing; I do my best. One day massa called me and'
say:. ~. I am dying this time, David, and no mistake.'
'Ali, no, Massa' Carl,' I say, 'I go foraging and you
get better;' but he just shake his head, and IL went on

a little way to find a house or some place for Massa
CarL I find some, berry nice people, and we all go
after massa, but de 'Yanks were dere first; when dey
was gone, der was no Massa Carl, only just him coat
he'd bin laying on 'fore I went 'way."
Two or three days after letters reached me which
gave nw fuller accounts; a prisoner had seen my hus-
band brought into the Federal camp on a stretcher;
several of the officers had tried to assist him,' but
he was too far gone. They had all felt much interest-
ed in him from his fine appearance; but the prisoner
could. only -say he 'had been kindly cared for, for in a
few hours there was a surprise by the Confederates in
which tlie informant was ~taken prisoner. Further
information came later. He had lived only a 'few
days, but had been cared for to the last, and was
buried in a portion of the battle-ground in 'which
Confederates and Unionist had been buried together.
Every kindness, every praise of him, every sympa.
thy possible the officers gave me; he had been widely
loved' and honored for hi~ soldierly' skill and daring,
and his noble and knightly character.
If one ray of light could, have come in upon the
darkness of my heart,' it would have come' in the
thought that he had died for a cause he had loved and
honored; but seeing with the clearer light of immor-
tality his spirit would recognize the right, while his
body rested under the folds of the true flag.


CHAPTER XVI.
WITH my husband's death died all that bound me
to the South. I utterly loathed the war and every
thing concerned with it. Free to feel, free to 'think,
at last, according to my own convictions, I made no
attempt to disguise its deformity, its wretchedness,
the wickedness of ,its motives, and the enormity of its
sin. I 'went, as I had done before, to the hospitals, for
I knew how many, like my husband, had gone into
the war as conscientiously and as heroically as your
bravest Northern general; but oh! I longed with all
my heart, it was a dream beyond any hope, to stand
among brave ITnion men, and toil for them!
I did not dare look so far as my old home; I dared
not hope ever to live under the dear flag again; but I
did dream of an escape somewhere, anywhere out of
that accursed city, every stone in the streets of which
seemed to mock at me. My friendliness was com~
plete; many who honored my husband had shown me
many kind attentions, but I felt as if I had no
right to them. I had felt always, especially since

A. STORY 013' OUR CIVIL WAR. 1 '75

my visit North, as if I were wearing honors I did 'not
deserve.
'How many of the pale faces that hurried past me
covered the same weariness of heart, I did not ask; but
as I saw their tenderness to the soldiers, their devo-
tion to their cause, my heart cried out more than ever
to be at the North, aiding in like manner the land I
loved.
"David," I asked one morning of him who was
now a hero among his fellow servants, "what has be-
come of Lizzh~, I have not seen her for several days?"
"Dunno, missus."
"Yes you do,'David; answer me."
"Oh, br, missus, if yer looks in that way 'specks:
I'll have ter answer. 'Specks Lizzie's whar George
is." George was her husband, living in another part
of the city.
"And where is George?"
"Dunno, missus, 'less de Yanks got hold of him;
dey's awful ticfs, dey is."
"I wonder if they would steal me," I said; but
forming the thought into words became too much for
me, and I could not keep back the tears. When he saw
that, David cried too, but so ludicrously that I changed
to laughing.
"'Dar now, see dat now," he exclaimed; "missus
larf just de way she larf when Massa Carl and me go
courtin. Massa Carl! Massa Carl! oh! oh! Nebber

4

175


AT ANCHOR:

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.

go courtin no more! Him told me dis yere'd happen..
~ebber see you no more, Massa Carl! Massa Carl
him berry badly hurt last winter, 'nebber tell you,
missus? Him poor foot's all frozed, and when David
take stocking off de skin all come too, but Massa
Carl he only larf. Him say: David, any thing happen
to me you go back to missus; tell her I lub her just
ebery day more; tell her forgive me that thing-she
knows. And David, him say low voice, get her up
Norf; you know how."
"You know how! Oh, David, why did you not
tell me this before?"
"I 'fraid, missus, you berry big for de war."
"Can I go, David?"
",Massa Carl tell me, I know."
"That won't do now," I said, when he had told me
his plan; "things have changed since then, and when-
ever I do go I shall go openly and above board,-.
honorably."
"Missus know best," he said, only dimly conscious
that I was beyond him. "'Taint nuffin for nigger to
run away; 'taint for poor nigger ter have dem high
seinments. If Missus goes Korf she'll take DaVid
'long too ? ~'
"Would you like to go, David?"
"It berry cold der, missus?".
"sot all the time.~~
"'Specks I'd like ter go, missus."

$

* "Then I'll take you, David."
* "Missus promise?"
"Yes, David, if you don't run away first."
"I not run away, missu0, I go lion'rable."
"Oh!" I exclaimed.
"It berry cold up Norf; but a man own he self
dere. How much I worth, missus?"
"How do you mean?
"How much I bring if I sold."
"I don't know."
"Tink I'se worth good deal; two thousand dollars,
may be."
"Perhaps so."
"Two thousand dollars~ great deal money for Norf.
I go Norf; I own myself; I be worth two thousand
dollars; I be berry rich man. Bimeby I make more
money and buy bld Chloe, den I own two niggers.
Bimeby--" but David's mathematical calculations had
reached their climax. -
The next day I left my husband's property in the
hands of his old. lawyer to take care of for' me, and I
started for Richmond, which seemed a, little nearer
home.
8~I~


A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      179

CHAPTER XV1I.
IT was intensely hot in Richmond and in its neigh-
borhood, but the heat was the least of our trouble;
~the "Yankees" were at our very gates, and the city
seemed moulding itself into one vast hospital on
account of the wounded soldiers daily arriving, and
the constant departure of all well persons, soldiers, and
civilians, who could get away. As for~ those who
remained,-it may have been tue reflection of my own
~ loiLeliness,-they seemed borne down by anxiety and
care; there were some who loudly spurned all fear of
a nearer approach of the Federal army to Richmond;
there were others who trembled lest at any moment
the dreaded Yankees might burst in upon us. Con-
fusion dwelt everywhere; our army, broken and ex-
hausted, could offer but a feeble resistance, and what
was there to prevent the Union army from dashing
into our very nddst?                    -
Many urge4 me to join them in leaving the city,
but I only shook my head. "What use?" I said, "as
well noW as later;. it makes no difference." "Her

husband's death has broken her completely," they
said.
I went from place to place in a fever of restless-
ness. Whenever I was in the city I visited the hospi-
tals, and gave largely of help and money, so that my
loyalty was held as a model to others. But I could
not rest anywhere, nor stay in any one place. Once
I walked up and down a depot; some one had said a
train of wou~ided soldiers was to pass there, and I
tried to solace my feverishness by planning some as-
sistance for them.
A young girl who seemed to be even more impa-
tient than myself~, finally addressed me: "Do you
know any thing about the* train? Will it come, do
you think?"
"I know nothing forr certain," I answered, "but it
seems to be expected by very many; we can only
wait."
"Only wait / I am tired to death of waiting; I
have been here ages."
"You are expecting some one
"Partly, Papa has been wounded, and I go to
every depot and every train to meet him. My poor
papa! I wish they'd come! Probably, after all, papa
won't be there* I have been disappointed so many.
times! Are you expecting any body?"
"No," I said, "I have not even the comfort of
dread or fear."


180              AT A!WCUOR:                                        A STORY Os', OUR civii. WAR.   1~1

"Oh! how hard!" she exclaimed:
"'Not to dread because all is taken,
Is the loneliest depth of human pain.'
But It is a proud thing to have lost any one in this
war."
I did not answer.
"I shall do something desperate if this thing goes
on much longer," she said.
"Dear child," I could but say, "rather thank God
that he has left you even suspense."
She turned perfectly pale. "If God took papa," she
said, "I would.-"
She could not finish the sentence. 12 wondered, if I
had loved Carl, would I have felt the revenge and
* airy her broken sentence showed?
~ "I wonder how you all bear it so calmly," she
began again: "you must be very patient."
"We never know," I answered, "until we are tried,
how much we can bear. Your father for whom you
are waiting, has he been long in the army?" I added,
to change the subject.                       I
"Oh, from the first; I was in New York, and papa
ordered me to. stay there, but I ordered myself to
come here. Well that I did,~or there would be no one
to take care of papa."
"I have lived a great deal in New York," I Baid;
"that ought to make us friends almost."

"I did love New York, but now I hate it. I would.
joy to hear it burnt to, the ground."
She had a fair complexion, soft brown hair and
emotionless blue eyes; but she spoke with a fierce
vindictiveness.
"Were you ever there much?" I asked.
"Oh, yes! I was educated there. I wish we could
take New York."
"If we keep half of what we' have we shall do
well."
"Oh, you don't know! Papa writes me all ab~ut
the war and the North. He says the Northern Gen-
erals don't fight like ours, and their army cannot stand
privations as ours does. They are not heart and soul
in the war like we are. Papa sends~..me New York~
papers; they never agree; they are all grumbling an4'
growling, some wanting one thing, some another;
son~e want the army to do this, and others want
it to do something else; and Abe Lincoln tries to suit
them all, and so cuts up the army, and fights a little
to suit the war people, and then compromises and
don't fight, to suit the peace people. Papa says they
will have another revohition up there."
"I very seldom see a Northern paper," I said;
"what do they find to quarrel about?"
"I don't understand exactly; but papa says the
Yankee rage for money-making gets ahead of patriot
zeal for the country, and so there's a muss. They: talk


182                    AT ANCHOR:
a deal about our slaves, and our sleeping over volca-
noes; but papa says our slaves are not a circumstance
to their foreign citizens, who don't understand about
country and government; how can they, never having
had any of their own? and they make as much fuss
and talk as loud as if the whole North belonged to
them, and won't leave the Yankees a chance to squeeze
in a word on their own affairs. Papa made me learn
some lines of a French poet in New Orleans once, that
he says have proved almost a prophecy. I do not
know if I can quote them:
'Veillons! car parmi nous l'esprit des strangers
Menace le pays du plus grand des dangers,
Ali I maiheur &amp; tous ceilx qui, plein de moquerie
Par la force ou l'astuce, attaquent la patrie:
Maiheur aux 6trangers, s'ils ne cessent de l'~tre;
S'ils veulent conserver l'amour d'un ancient maitre,
S'ils n'ont pas un seul cosur avec ceux dii pays,
S'ils ne partagent pas les amours de ses fils;
Si coutre notre esprit leur fol esprit conspire;
S'ils veulent un empire au milieu d'uu empire!
Veillons! car le grand fiot de l'6migration
.Menace l'avenir de notre Nation!
Car l'esprit stranger , cruel perturbateur,
De la guerre intestine est le premier fauteur;
Du~ desordre toujours il s'est montr6 l'apbtre;
Et traitre ~ sa patrie, ii trahira la nOtre!
ADRIEN ROUQUETTE.
"You pronounce French beautifully," I said,

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      183

making no comment on the matter of her qu~ta~
tion.
"I ought," she answered; "I learned it at Madame
Ohegary's, where I learned many other things not. so
commendable, such as flirting."
"I don't think the art of flirting is ever taught,"
I answered; "it is like Dogberry's reading and writing,
that come by nature.~~
"I don't do much of that now," she said. "This
war has made me very solemn. How did I come to
make you that quotation? Not to show off my French,
you must not think."
"I do not, indeed. You were speaking of the dis~
turbances at the North, of which I have heard only a
little now and then, and never before directly."
"I remember now. They do not know what coun-
try means at the North, where they are mixed up with
every manner of nation. It is not like it is here; we
are all for one side; there they are divided, and half
of their generals, who are politicians, try to keep right
with both sides, so that they can keep their ph~ces
either way. It isn't like it is here. If a 'general here
gets beaten, down he goes; only 9ur generals never do
get beaten. There, papa says, no matter how much
we beat them, they cry ' J7ictory / Victory!' all the
same. There comes. the train !'~
Slowly it crept along with its burden of wounded
men; my companion sprang forward as soon as it


A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.       i85~

-AT ANCHOR:

neared us. An officer in a colonel's uniform, assisted
by a servant and an orderly, was among the first to
alight from the cars; a distinct soldierly voice called
"Gertrude," and in an instant my companion was at
his side.
A winning girl she was, with all her freedom and
her careless dignity, and pretty, too; pretty, like some
one I had seen; indeed, from the first, I had watched
her, confident I had somewhere seen her face, or one
like it, before,
The wounded soldiers were obliged to be taken out
at this point, and the confusion became almost fright~
ful, as Confederates and Federals, our own and 'our
prisoners, were laid upon the platform ,to
await removal as patiently as might be. A young
man in a doctor'suniform, whom I had not iced very
busily watching "Gertrude," while' she was with me,
secured me as' his assistant, and won my admiration,
by his quickness and kindly manner to the soldiers.
The prisoners were under guard, but no one pre-
vented my passing among them, and doing for them the
little I could, as I had been doing for the others; buti
was rather shy of using a privilege which no one else
would have thought of taking, and occupied myself
with 'my new friend the doctor. In passing through
the crowd a man rose staggering to his feet, but, un-
able to sustain himself; fell almost immediately. I
rushed to break his fall, in which I was kindly assisted

by the surgeon. I saw the face of the man, and I
made a desperate effort.
"I cannot stay longer," I said' to the young sur-
geon, "but I can still work; if there is not found room
for all your wounded, I shall be really honored if you
will turn my house," giving him its number, "into a
hospital. To inaugurate that event I will take this
man, who seems to have appealed to me, with me, if
you will help me; I have a carriage here."
"He's a prisoner," answered the doctor, pointing
to his uniform.
"So he is," I said; "but having made up my mind
to take him, Federal or Confederate, it is about the
same; I presume they will be very glad to have one
less in the prison hospitid."
"I have noticed a very interesting soldier, scarcely
more than a boy, one of our own; he looks delicate, too
delicate for hospital fare; I would like to take advan-
tage of your kind offer for him," answered the doctor.
"I will receive him with much pleasure," I said;
"I will send back for him."
* "I do not think you can take this man," he said,
pointing to ,the prisoner.
"I shall and must," I answered, with the decision
of desperation. And I did take him, thanks to the ad-
dress of my friend the surgeon, and thanks to the
lucky chance of having' seen "aerfrude~' to whom it
was clear I was indebted for the doctor's good-will.

184

.4

185


186             AT ANCHOR,:

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      18~

The prisoner, who was now almost unconscious,
was lifted and carried to my carriage.
The doctor, whom this hour of mutual work had
made better acquainted with me than months of society
meetings, offered me his coup6, but I declined, and
showed my intention of going with theNsoldier.
"My dear lady, that is impossible," urged the
doctor.
"Quite possible," I answered.?
"God bless you ladies!" exclaimed the doctor,
closing the door for me.
"Don't," I said, "there was never less patriotism
or charity
I could not finish my sentence. Not patriotism or
charity, what then?
My patient was Gilbert Stuart.
~ Jack, the driver, had muttered very considerably
as Gilbert was being helped into the carriage, which
showed me the Federal uniform was quickly recog-
nized e~ren by that not over-intelligent African.
Well might the doctor have wondered; every
motion of the carriage swayed my charge, too weak
to support himself; from side to side, My anxiety to
escape observation almost gave way before my vexa-
tion at my position; but I supported Gilbert as well
as I could, and hurried Jack as much as he was willing
to be hurried. Gilbert's uniform w~s well-worn,
besides being thick with mud and blood; one of his

shoulder-straps had been carried away, evidently by
the ball that had wounded him; the other; a second
lieutenant's strap, remained; as he lay apparently un-
conscious, I succeeded in removing it, for II intended,
or thought I intended seeing no more of him after I
had once, placed him in such comfort as could be
given him.
After awhile he spoke, and I started to find he
knew me, and called me by my old name, "Georgie."
"I am~liere," I answered.
"Why don't we push on for Richmond! I shall
see her. Why don't w~ push on? Take care, there,
now!" /
He spoke in a sleepy kind of tone, but at the last
word his voice rose almost to a shout, and I knew that
he was raving.
"Drive fast," I said, letting down the window.
"Yes, Missus," answered Jack, dutifully, and drove
slower than before.
Gilbert continued his talk, which was made up of
drilling directions, battle cries, army orders, meaning-
less words, confused scraps of poetry, and shouts of
"Bichmond to-night,"---once or twice he spoke, my
name,-~.a talk so wild and conft~sed that I was terrified.
"Drive faster~~ I ordered.
"Yes, Missus, Nelly is berry lame."
"Come back, Georgie," said Gilbert. "On to
Richmond. McClellan won't let us. Kearney is

5


108                AT A TcROR:                                            A TORY OE' OUR CIVIL WAR.       I8~9

g4ng. I am going. 'When Marmion. On! charge!"
-his voi~e rising and sinking, and these the only
intelligible words. I was more than terrified, and I
must have shoWn it, for Jack, at my next repetition oi
the order,-it was the first I had ever needed to repeat
to hhn,-turned. upon the boxand looked down at me:
"Nelly hardly walk," he said.
"This man is suffering terribly," I said; "get on in
some way."
"Is yer 'fraid, Missus?" Jack asked, with a look
that frightened me more yet.' For some reason Jack
was angry, and beyond bounds; all the lashes in the
South could not have subdued him then. I felt he
had stepped over the boundary of mistress and slave,
and for a moment I hesitated what course to pursue;
ther&amp; was a 'time when I would have mastered a
wilder animal than he, by the very poWer of my look
and voice. I did not feel sure of myself and dared not
venture it:
"Yes," I. answered, plaintively, "I am afraid."
"Missus would have de Yank in de carriage," he,
grumbled. "Nebber no Yankee lady take care Massa.
Carl." An&amp; more to the same effect.
"No," I said, restored a little to myself, "but I
know this man, and once when Master Carl was
among strangers, and they were against him, this man
took Master Carl's part." '
"Missus know dat?" Jack said, and I noticed the

horses went faster, as he turned to them and then
b~ok again for my answer.
"Yes," I said, "and I cannot let him die as if he
had never known Master Carl."
Jack wheeled around, and Nell~r forgot her lame~
ness. The humiliation ef that conversation ought to
balance many an hour of stubborn pride.
As tlie carriage went faster Gilbert's excitement
arose. "They are coming I 'they are coming!" he
shouted. "Who says retreat! Oh! they've hit
me'!"
"Here, you good-for-nothing Diggers," Jack cried,
as at this moment we reached home, " what for you
stan' grinning dere?. Help."
Then there was a rushing to and fro; every room
in the house was made ready for use, but in the airiest
and prettiest Gilbert was placed.
Before I had time to think of what 'I had done, the
doctor had made good his word, and the rooms were
filled. Two ladies and a Sister of Charity came with
them. One of these ladies I had long known well; the
other, an elderly, quiet woman,- was a stranger.
"You are to command here?' I said to the doctor,
who had hardly waited for that permission.
"What have you done with your tyrant? "he asked
mein 'a low voice.
I did not' understand him, and said so.
"I mean th~ 'fierce invader."'


190              AT A~CnOR:                                          A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.       191

"Oh," I said, "Jack has taken the oppressor under
his protection. It is but in the usual order of things
that the oppressed should turn the other cheek. Will
you go in?"
"I will see huiii next."
I did not go with him; I asked the Sister of Charity
to assist the doctor, which she did with that gentle-
ness and readiness of perception that 'seem to be put
on with the black cap..
)
"He is going. to do very well," the doctor said,
returning to me; "I hope you will be able to keep him
here." We talked a while about the probabilities~ ; he
gave me directions about the others, then he grew red
and said:
"I see your sister is not with youI think you are
right; it would not do at all, decidedly would not do
at all for her to be here."
"My sister ?"I repeated; "I have no sister."
"The young lady whom you sent off when the
/ train arrived, is she not your sister?"
"No, indeed; how came you to imagine so?" I
did not say I knew of her scarcely more than he did
himself; I needed the doctor's continued favor.
"She looked like you," he answered.
"Like me! That fragile, blue-eyed thing like
me!" I did not at first see that it wasa supposition
made to find out something of her.
Not in physique," he answered to my look of

surprise, "but a resemblance somewhere there cer-
tainly is; a shadowy, misty, fleeting resemblance, yet
a resemblance, like a full bugle blast and its faint, far-
off echo."
"It seems impossible; she is directly my oppo-
site."
"No, only your echo," he answered, smiling.
"She has a lovely face."
"God in heaven send her grace," I added.
He went to one of the rooms, dressed a wound,
came back, washed his hands, and accepted my offer
of a cracker and a glass of wine, which he took hastily,
standing.
"Your friend is very lovely," he said, reassured
perhaps by the wine; "'I do beseech you, chiefly that
I may set it in my prayersher name,' or words to that
effect."
"O~ertrude I" I answered;. "there's satisfaction
enough for one day.
"That implies~ more some other day? I appreciate
the kindness, and shall live on the anticipation.
We three nurses, for now that the hardest work
was over the Sisters had gone to the hospital, then ap-
plied ourselves to our separate charges. I sat some*
time by Gilbert, who was lying in such evident ex-
haustion that I feared he would never revive. While
I sat I thought less of him than one would suppose;
much, very much of the young doctor, and the strong


192             AT ANCHOR:

Impression a pretty emotionless face had made upon
him; and while I thought I wondered where I had
seen ~that face before: I knew I had seen it before.
Suddenly it flashed upon me, and ashamed, yet yield-
ing to the temptation, I went and looked in Gilbert's
pocket for the miniature he had once shown to me.
It was not there; but I knew now, I could not reason
myself out of the conviction that it was not Kate's
idealized face, but "Gertrude's;" younger, more child-
ish, fainter-colored, than as I had seen it that day, but
her face surely.

CHAPTER XVIII.
IT had beQome a settled fact in the household, that
"Missus" was taking-care of a great friend of "Massa
Carl's," which vexed me greatly; it seemed hard that
not even death could screen that noble name from be-
ing mixed in deceit.
I had told the truth when I said Mr. Stuart had
spoken for Carl, for he had- done so, slightly- enough,
as I recorded in* the early pages of my life; but not
because my love for my husband's memory endeared
even an enemy of my country who had been once his
friend, as the servants supposed, nor on account of th~
intensity of my charity and patriotism, as others
thought, had I brought Gilbert there; nor yet because
the old love lingered still. If Gilbert Stuart stood
before me in health and 4'reedom, and offered me his
love, the love I had striven so hard to gain, the love
that longing for had imbittered my life, hardened my
nature, and almost broken my husband's heart, do you
think I would have accepted it?
When, in the wounded prisoner, I flrst recognized
9


194             AT AI~CHOR:                                      A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.     195

Gilbert Stuart, a thrill of joy ran through. my very
soul, for I saw the chance that I might pay him back
a debt I owed him. I owed him two debts: one was
a debt of hatred for the blight he had put upon my
youth; the other Was a debt of thanks that he. had
risked his life to bring me back to honor and safety;
I leave it to you to guess which debt was the most
oppressive to rae.
Very ill and restless he was, and perfectly uncon-
scious that I was any other than a stranger to him, if
indeed he was not unconscious of everything around
him. Handsome, in a strong intense way, he had al-
ways been; but, refined by sickness, his eyes bright
with fever, and the bronze not yet worn off his cheeks,
his was a royal face to gaze upon; and when those
great, grand eyes that in old times had spelled me,
4lad to be spelkd, and bound me, and commanded and
moved and stirred my. very soul,-eyes that had been
for years and years the light of my life, when they
turned upon me, the old habit came with their gaze.
Again and again I resolved to go to him no more;
but every day I cared for him more anxiously, m6re
tenderly, more vainly against my will than before.
In a room opening into the one I had given Gil-
bert, the Confederate* soldier of whom~the doctQr had
spoken to me during the discussion about taking Gil- -
bert, had been placed'; the quiet elderly lady who
came with the wounded men took the almost exolu-

sive charge Qf him, and we often had long talks to-
gether as we sat by the open doors.
"How hot it is!" she said one day; "if weonly
had ice for their wounds! I am often grateful that I
am caring for a stranger, just alone for the agony it
'would be to see one of my own loved ones burning
with pain, and so little relief as we can give them.
All the comforts go with the ~orth!"
"They have their own share," I answered "of
sacrifices and privations, and we have our comforts,
too; our soldiers are always with us. I doubt not
there is many a heart aching in the North that would
count it beyond all comfort to sit as we do by the
side of soldiers fresh from the battle-field. If love, &amp;r
if distance will not let us do for those who are dear to
us, we feel as if; in doing it for some brave comrade,
we were doing for theme The Northern women have
not these opportunities as we have."
"Little do they care," she returned; "cold, sensi-
bleimodel women as they are! There is too much
knowledge of mathematics, of metaphysics, and of
housekeeping crammed into them, to leave much room
for tenderness or patriotism." -
"I think," I replied, "the knowledge widens, not
encumbers, the heart and mind. I know from that lit.
tle sentence that~you have learned disgust for 6a8 11eu8,
but is it quite fair to blame knowledge and education
because they are badly used? For my part I have


196              AT A~CnOR~:                                          A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.       19~

*   al~w~ays scorned to enter into discussions upon the ca-
pacity of women for coping with men, ~nd all the
thousand times repeated arguments and denunciations
which go with the subject. Simple enough' it seems
*   to tue. God has given us but one pair ofhands,'and.
given us all an equal number of hours in which to
labor and to take ~our rest. If to one woman be has
given a splendid talent that others have not, have we
any right to abuse the talent because the woman Who
has that which we have not should fail to possess that
which we have? If a woman wills her household du-
* ties shall wait upon her talent, she is to be blamed for
a choice which would not be ours, not for the power
of making a choice. if I were an artist or a writer,
* '~ or anything more than women usually are, I should
* make my choice between my talent and 'household
life. If I loved the talent best, I should never marry.
If I did marry; I should use my talent only to enlarge
my heart and fortify my common sense. It is true all
women. do not see this thing as I do, and they decide
to make household duties second; then they are
blamed, are pronounced cold, as if mind and heart
were always at odds. I have lived a great deal among
~orthern women, of course, as I am from the North
myselff and I cannot call them cold, or allow that their
j~earts are not large and loving. I wonder if they are
just to xis, oi~ if they blame our impulsiveness, our un-
*    di~eipli~ed minds, as we blame them?"

* "I cannot bear the thought," she said; "those cold,'
methodical, intolerant women; do you think they care
for their soldiers; do you think they open their houses
to them as we do? Oh, if I only. knew,! I had an
only eon, but-"
She pat~sed and sighed.
"You, too," I said; "is there any one whose heart
is not in mourning?"
"My son is not dead," she, answered. "It were
better if he were. He is a traitor !-no, not a traitor;
no man is a traitor so long as he is true to his con-
science. He would not listen to me; I had brought
him up in steady faith, but it was of no use when
he was tested. If anything happened to him, those
* Northern women would treat him like a beggar, I
suppose?"
"Do not for a moment so wrong the North; let us
be 'just to our enemies; if our cause is right, it is
* right, 'although the women of the North wc~re angels
or were barbarians. We gain nothing by intolerance;
indeed, it is that bitterness, that unwillingness to~ be-
lieve in anything good from those that are opposed to
us, which most injures the cause of our country, as it
has~ Long terribly hurt the cause of our religion. We
claim for our schools, for our institutions, for our very
merchants even; as much as if their perfection were~ an.
article of faith; we will not own that a Catholic ean
do wro~ig, or that a Protestant can. do right, and 'we.

AT ANCHOR


108              ATA WHoR:
are making the same mistake in regtird to the two
sections. It is true we hear that prosperity and ease
and luxury are with the North; but women, South or
North, must have changed their nature if any luxury
can steel their hearts against pain and suffering, and.
and oh! the pain and suffering incurred for them!"
"You are a Northern woman,-would you be just
as kind if you believed. in the Northern side?"
"Certainly, I should!"
"You know the North. Perhaps you think I ought
not to care what becomes of my boy, now that he has
deserted us; but I cannot. He is my son, you know.
I thought, when pleading failed, that I might frighten
him; and I said, if he put on the Yankee uniform, I
neyer wanted to see his face again; and oh, perhaps
I never shall! Do you suppose he thought I meant
it?"
"Surely not," I answered, for maternal love and
tenderness must have been ever imprinted unmistak-
ably~ upon her sweet face. "It is from you he must
have learned to follow his own convictions, at whatever
cost, for you have shoWn him the example at a price
which no man can ever wholly appreciate; he surely
honors you for your steadfastness, though, doubtless, it
seems to him blindness, and cuts him to the heart to
remember; so you should honor him that he followed
his coirvictions. You could not wish him to have yiel4.
ed his principles either to your love or to your anger."'

A STORY. OF OUR CIVIL WAR.    199

*Principte8 I Do you suppose they realty think
they are fighting for principles!" she exclaimed; and
I was angrier then than when I tried to shut out the
sounds of rejoicing over the Bull Run battle.
"Madam," I said, "it is not difficult to imagine
that a 'nation honorable, liberal, and prosperous, should
fancy itself upholding a principle when it stands in
arms for its government against its rebellious sub-
jects."
" That is their way of putting ~ she returned;
"I suppose you understand the ~ro1Th better than I."
"Oh! do not speak always as if it were the North
we are warring against; we have made War upon the
United AS~tates, and the United States, not N6rth,
South, East, or West, has declared war against us."
"North, South, East, or West," she replied ;~ "I
hate them for taking my boy from me. I have never
heard one word from him since Bull Run. I would
give my life to hear of his safety."
"May I ask his name?" I said. "I may some time
chance to hear from or of him."
"My son's name ?-~James Belton; he was a cap-
tain in the old army when the war commenced."
After that we were a longtime quiet. As I heard
that name I seemed to see again the little group
around the dinner-table, and my husband, flushed
with enthusiasm, at its head; and again, pale and
tired, as he was, when he lay back in his arm-chair


that night while I told him of Captain Belton's letter.
And once more I thought, if I had argued and reasoned
with him as I ought, he might have been, perhaps, safe
to-day, or, at least, his name might have been enrolled
among the defenders of that flag against which he had
fought, but under the starry folds of which he now
slept. I wondered, too, which had done right; the
mother who,1 with breaking heart, had torn herself
from her son to be true t&amp; her convictions, or the wife
who had been false to her convictions, lacking courage
to leave her husband~ I walked, indeed, along a tan-
gled path, hardly knowing if it were my own will to
go forward; backward, or stand still; but somehow
hoping to see that which seemed. all a tangle, all con-
fusion, woven into a straight and meaning road.
The Confederate soldier whom Mrs. Belton had left
for a few moments, an hour after, called me to him.
"I know about her son," he said; "his name was
Belton, she said, dktn't she? You are sure sjhe said
Belton,.-James J3elton? But I know it was the one;
he was a colonel, and commanded a brigade. And this
is his mother taking care of me like as if she was my
own mother!"
"What do yowknow about her son?" I asked.
"I aren't tell you," he answered; "you will tell
her, and she will never come near me after."
~' I will not tell her anything you do not wish m~
to.

200,

AT Ancron:

201

"I only done my duty," he told me; "when we
goes to fight, fight we must, and done with it. I was
in a company of sharpshooters, ma'am, and we set out
to hit a man that Went. everywhere on a white.~...horse
like as if the devil himself couldn't touch him, We
used to call him 'the one-armed devil,' 'am. No~
body thought I could do much; and says I to myself,
'Just you hit the one-armed devil, Billy Sayres, and
you'll be a big gun ever after.' I was sure I had him,
when there was a crowd consulting together; but up
rides another man and dashes by, all bright with tog-
gery; nothing less than a General that time; I fired,
and down he went; and when .1 fired again, the white
horse was out of sight. But I just marked the place;
for, says I to myself; 'I'll get a heap of things from
him, and he deserves to lose them for spoiling my aim.'
We made such a pile there, ma'am; wasn'tt much use
to try to carry him oil', though he were Georgey B.
himself; which -he wasn't, for no body 'ever knew that
sharpshooter that ever had a sight of him. So, When
night came, me and some others went around, and I
found my man. Soon as ever I see him, I knew him
for a General that once let my mother off down in the
valley, and gave our folks a guard just as often as they
asked. Mother was a regular Northerner, and this
General or Colonel he knew it. I wanted- some clothes
bad, but I hadn't the heart to take his. I was very
proud to take down a General, for he acted like a Geu~
9*

200              AT A2qOHOR:                                        A TORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      201


202              AT A~CHOn.                                            A STORY~ OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      203

eral, and there was heaps about him in the papers
afterwards, but I kind of wished it hadn't been him.
I thought maybe mothered like something that was
his; she was so fond of him, she'd cook him pies, and
loved him like as if he were a 'Rebel.' So I takes
this note-book, ma'am; I haven't ever opened* it, I've
just held on to it ~ll the time."
Mrs. Belton had. put away his old clothes very
nicely, as he now wore the hospital dress, and obeying
hi~ directions I had little difficulty in finding a pack-
age whichI gave to him. It was rolled in a very dirty
newspaper, which the soldier unwound, although he
was too weak to easily accomplish the unrolling. As~
he attempted handing it me he dropped it, and the
papers scattered around the floor and bed; I gathered
them up hastily and replaced them. A carte do visit
attracted my attention, for it laid face uppermost, and
was one of a set I had had taken while at the North,
the summer before the war. On the back of it was.
written, "From Sr. .M L., Nov. 1861."
It seemed natural to conclude it had been given
him by some one of the Sisters at the conventwhere I
had seen Emma Lewis, for I had left several there,
and with real joy I felt I had lived in the grateful
remei~ibrance of one man; one person had not met
trouble and pain through me.
"Will you take care of it~ ~a'am," asked the
soldier, "and give it to her after I am gone? .Thrn't
tell her who done it."

Poor bright, little fellow, cheerful, grateful as he
had been, interesting and winning us all, he lost his
spirits after this; erysipelas came and could not be
conquered; they took him to the Sisters' hospital,
where there were more experienced nurses; Mrs.
Belton still seeing him every day; but before either
she or I knew he was really in danger he died. I had
forgotten his name, which he had repeated in his
story of Captain Belton's death, and could not recall
it for a long time. I should have been glad to have
seen or written to his mother, and regretted my own
selfish preoccupation which had not anticipated this
event. As all connected With him now comes back, I
am reminded of some verses, I do not know by whom
written, I have since seen, which are so suggestive of
the many: scenes we saw and thoughts we felt in
those bitter days, that I trust no apology is needed for
copying them here:
"SOMEBODY'S DARLING.

"Into a ward of the whitewashed halls,
Where the dead and dying lay,
Wounded by bayonets, shells, and balls,
Somebody's darling was borne one day-
Somebody's darling, so young and so brave,
Wearing yet on his pale, sweet face,
Soon to be hidby the dust of the grave,
The lingering light of his boyhood's grace.

)

)


204             AT -ANCHOR:

"Matted and damp are the curls of gold,
Kis~ing the snow of the fair young brow;
?ale are the lips of delicate mould-
Somebody's darling is dying now.
Back from his beautiful~ blue-veined brow,
Brush all the wandering waves of gold;
Cross his hands on his bosom now-
* Somebody's darling is still and cold.
Kiss him once for somebody's sake;
Murmur a prayer, soft and low;
One bright curl from its fair mates take-
They were somebody's pride, you know.
Somebody's hand has rested there-.
Was it a mother's, soft and white?
Mid have the lips of a sister fair
Been baptized in the waves of light?
"God knows best! lie has somebody's love;
Somebody's heart ensh*ied him there;
Soniebody wafted his name above,
Night and morn, on the wings of prayer.
Somebody wept when he marched away,
Looking so handsome, brave, and grand;
Somebody's kiss on his forehead lay,
Somebody clung to his parting hand.
"Somebody's waiting and watching for him-.
Yearning to hold him again to her heart;
And there he lies, with his blue eyes dim,
And the smiling, child-like lips apart.
Tenderly bury the fair young dead,
Pausing to drop on his grave a tear;
Carve on the wooden slab at his head,
'Somebody's darling slumbers here."'

CHAPTER XIX.

THERE came a day when Gilbert' slept quietly, and
the doctor, my young friend, said that when he awoke
the fever would be gone.
He slept on until it grew so dusky that he could
not recognize me. I knew very well that I ought not
to let him recognize me, nor let him know that I had
been near him; yet it seemed very hard-you do not
need that I should tell you how hard; but he was not
~free, and every voice of duty, pride, and self-respect
sternly demanded that I should ~do so. I hoped, as I
sat in the dim light,, he would wake and speak in his
natural voice again. It would seem like a dream of
home,-and more. But it grew along late into the
night, so late I ~ould not longer delay having' lights,
and he still slept; so I forced myself from the seat at
his side, and for the last time put the bottles in order,
lowered the curtains, stood by him a moment, and then
gave him into Mrs. ]3elton's charge.
"I knew him once," I said to her, "and I do not,
care to have him know that I have, seen him. Please

204


206              AT ANCHOR:                                         A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.     20~I

avoid mentioning my name, or. saying any thing that
will arouse lAs suspicions I will do 'as much as I can
to avoid extra trouble to you; the only thing is, I do
not wish to be seen by him.'~
Day after day I prepared every delicacy I possibly
could to send him, and every day I heard that he was
slowly gaining strength. What wild, foolish things I
did, it would be as foolish to name here; how I sent him
soups 'and jellies in my finest silver and china dishes,
'accompanied by flowers, and every fancy I c6uld
devise to please his taste or tempt his appetite. I
searched my library for the books I thought he would
like best, and when they were returned, I cherished
them for that they had been with him; but I kept my
~resolution well, and did not once see him.
The young surgeon and myself wer&amp;now excellent
friends; he had known my husband and many of my
Southern friends well~ and besides being genial, lively,
and warn-hearted by nature, was agreeable, accom-
pUshed, and pleasing by cultivation.
"Have you seen Mademoiselle 'GertruJe' lately?"
he asked me, one day. "Her sweet face quite haunts
me, and is evidently intended to exercise an extensive
influence over my destiny. How eagerly, three years
ago, I would have followed it ; ~but now I almost count
it sin to think of any thing but those there," pointing
to the~ hospital; "but-she had a lovely face t"
"And ~a face however lovely, I ask as a matter of

curiosity, can it inspire and sustain, for nearly six
weeks, an" interest in the fickle heart of man?" I
asked.
"For six times six weeks," he answered,' "when
the face is as fair as hers!"
"How very absurd! How very small the worth
of a heart given to a face; to no sweetness ~of dis-
position, to no brilliance of thought, or depth of char-
acter, but simply to red cheeks and blue eyes! I.
should be humbled so to make a conquest."
"Then your pride has surely had many a fall.
But' aertrude '-a romantic name, is it not ?-liut
Gertrude, if' I read her face rightly, would have no
such nice scruples, I fancy."
"Well, fate seems to have decreed that you shall
be interested in her, and will most likely bring you
yet to her feet, and then we shall see."
"Then we shall see! Haven't I won grace enough
from you yet to secure an introduction?"
"Ali I so I am to lay all this benevolent. assistanOe
tp the account of Mademoiselle Gertrude! Permit me
to moralize: Here am I, a woman not remarkably ugly,
and, as women go, sensible; for six weeks I have workh
ed with you in the best cause possible--that of suffer-
ing "humanity; have obeyed your every instruction
~most implicitly; have made. your patients take your
bitter medicines, to' please you; have watched your
incoming and oiitgoings; have in all things conducted

)

206

207

Ar axonos:


208              AT A~GHOR                                           A STORY 013' OUR CIVIL WAR.   20g

myself in the most humble and polite manner possible,
humbly enough, one would think, to melt the heart of
a tyrant; and when, at the end, I think I have won a
little consideration, lo and behold! I am esteemed
only for the fact that for fifteen minutes I once was
seen talking~ with a 'lovely and accomplished female.'
Verily, it is hard to say to which of us the fact is n~ost
humiliating!"
"You speak in jest, but your words have a world
of meaning. It is one of the mysteries of life. That
I 'honor and esteem you, that I bow down to you as
to a noble and beautiful woman, and that it will be
my pride' all my life to feel that I have been a co-
laborer with one so earnest, and yet that all this
talent and virtue gains ~additional light from a pair of
blue eyes once seen, perhaps never to be seen again,
is .a mystery which is so common one hardly notes it,
and Which cannot be explained. Is it hunibling? I
cannot feel it so., It is to me a proof of the wonderful
power of the soul, that sees beyond our mortal vision,
and recognizes-what?"
"Sure enough, wAat? Neither you nor I can telL
It may be a Joan of Arc, or a Lucrezia Borgia, though
I hardly think it; it may be a St. Teresa or a Flora
MacFlimsey for all either of us know."
"It rouses my curiosity, and I mean to know."
"That depends not upon yourself but on her will
and. pleasure. We only know as much of each other

in the closest ~eiation~ of life, as others choose that we
shall know.~~
"You frighten me 1 But Mademoiselle is apparent-
ly an amiable young lady, and, if you will give me an
introduction, the stupid formula that bridges o~er the
dreadful gulf that no heroism, no devotion, no good-
ness can pass over, I hope 'to know considerable of
her. How very powerful it is, that little formula! I
may have met you every day for twenty years, have
known half the incidents of your life, yet not venture
on so much as a bow in the street; while some stran-
ger, never heard of before, is made intimate at once by
half a dozen rapid words. Pray you, speak them for
* me."
"I do not know her myself. She chose to bridge.
over the gulf you find so impassable in h~r own way.
I never saw her but that once; do not even now know
more of her name or address than that her father called
her 'Gertrude."'
"That is very bad. Is she a myth, think you, or
*an angel rather, assuming mortal guise, just to fill my
head with dreams?"
"Nonsense! "
"No, dreams."
"If I meet her again, I will cultivate her friendship
for your sake, if not for my own, for I perceive you
are growing desperate."
"Not growing, but grown. Now I have exhausted

I

2

AT ANCHOE


210                AT A~cHoR:

niy daily allowance of' folly,. and bid you good
day.".
"That is consistent with your compliments! Good
day."
A slight, light-haired man in a colonel's uniform
now became known to me in my walks. Once I ~met
him face to face,, and he started and stared, and, I had
the feeling, looked after me when I passed. He
repeated this performance every time he met me,
which was nearly every day. One morning, when I
was a little later than usual, 12 found myself walking
behind him. This time he was not alone; a slender
young girl, dres8ed'in a very pretty summer suit, and
a stylish "jockey hat," had his arm. I knew her at the
first' turn of her head. It was "Gertrude." Without
intending it, I followed them some distance, until I
suddenly found we were at the depot. I turned back
at once.
I was, delayed a little by an old woman 'with a
piteou~ story to telL While listening to her, "Ger-
trude" game toward me, alone, and visibly crying.*
I bowed, and took a step or two toward her. She
seemed embarrassed, but advanced a little.
"Did you mind my rushing off so rudely that
day?" ~he said, as if in order to say something "It
was not right, when you had been so kind as to tell
me. about the trains."
~" I' should have been, very sorry to have had you

I

/
A STORY OF oun OIVIL ~          211
more polite;" I answered. "I was' glad to see your
father came."
"Yes, poor papa!" she said, her tears bursting
out afresh. "Now he is gone. He took his last walk
with me this morning, just to show me how well he could
bear it; but, in deed, he is not able to go yet. May I
walk with you?" she added; "I do not know any one
here that can understand how I feel to-day. I left
~namma in hysterics. It makes me cross to have her
feel so badly. When will it be over! Papa, poor
papa! he went away so gloomy, although things look
brighter that~ ever now.?'
"21 am going up to the hospital," I answered. "I
would like very much to have you go with me."
"I would love to, dearly; but perhaps papa would
not like it."
"If you will trust to that instinctive knowledge
which women generally have of each other, you may
rely upon me to take care of you. I will not let you
see any of the badly wounded men; we will pass
through only oiie ward. I have some things to give
one of the nurses."
"I will go," ~he ans~ered. "I am not. afraid of
anything that you are not."
"Do you wish to see your mother first-will she be
anxious?"
"Mamma ?-she would not mind if I stayed away
a month. She kno~rs you by sight; a friend of ours


.212              ATAIWHOR:
4
spoke to us about you one day-some one who had
known Major Aberthnay. I am so sorry for you?"
As we walked and talked, her depression wore
away; her nature was not one to retain any emotion
for any length of time. I exerted myself to amuse her,
trying the while to think whether I would. do well to
meet my friend, Dr. Carr, at the same time that a
thought was darting back and forth in my mind, what
effect would it have if I were to lure her to my house,
and let her see Gilbert?
At the hospital door we met the doctor, and I
observed with much amusement that he retained his
color, and his composure under the unexpected gaze of*
my companion's eyes. With the same politeness as
usual, with perhaps a shade more of ceremony, he
accompanied us into the hospital, and, when my visit
to the ward was over, offei'ed to show us other parts
of the building. Gertrude had told the simple truth,
when ~he said she had learned the art of flirting; her
eyes did the work of a dozen ordinary pairs that day..
She despised the ordinary glances of surprise, dismay,
and affected interest; she gave cool politeness to all
the doctor's explanations, and attentive earnestness to
my slightest remarJ~s; her blue eyes alternately fanned
and kindled the doctor's already well-fired heart, while
I watched the comedy with as much interest as one
can who sees behind the acting..
I did not leave, my new friend until she had ex-.

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.

I

213

pressed her pleasure at meeting me, and eagerly
accepted my invitation to visit me.
One thing and another detained me that morning,
and when I reached home, Mrs. Belton met me with a
serious face, and said:!
"The soldier in your fr6nt room that we have
taken care of so much, is a Yankee; they came for~
him this morning, told me of it, and have taken him
away.
"Where?" I asked.
"To the prison hospital,' I suppose," she answered.
"If I had known he wa~ a Yankee, I could have asked
'him about my son. Who would ever have thought it,-
so gentlemanly, so polite, so intelligent, and a Yankee?'~
"And he is gone!"
"Yes, ma'am, he is gone. To think of his audacity,
palming himself off for one of our men, and getting
taken care of by us ! "
"lie had not such a thought; he was quite uncon-
scious when he came here."
Gone! How my life sank down again! how wretch-
ed the city seemed I how long the days, 'varied by no
labors for him!
I had left of him only that one faded strap,-2not a
word, not a glance of recognition even; and now he
was gone. Twice I had singularly and' unexpectedly
had him brought before me, but how could I ever
hope for such a chance again ~


214              AT AIqCHOR.

I dragged myself from street to street of that
pestilent city, thinking it my duty to toil there; to do
there 'the only good my hands had ever found to do,
and to expiate, by hourly selfsacrifice, the sins of my
lif~..
CHAPTER XX.
I SAW a great deal of Gertrude, and tried to
her to speak of her life at the Xorth; but my efi
were successful only in so far as they drew forth co
less confessions of extravagance, flirting, and the u
sins and pastimes of young ladyhood. I had q
abandoned the fancy that her face was like the fac
the miniature Gilbert Stuart had shown me, and I
already quite weary of her pretty vanities, and si
ambitions; but she clung all the more to me.
father's letters she often read 'to me; they were ful
affection, but such letters as one would write t
child, not to a girl of twenty. Her mother I
never seen, but I judged her, from Gertrude's dese
tion, to be an inefficient, hysterical, uncomfort~
woman, with little brains and less intelligence. (
tie, whose other name, by the way, was the samc
my own had been- Thne-needed little ur~in~
escape as often as possible from the confusion of
immense family under the capricious rule of Mrs. Y~
and domesticate herself with me.

lead
'orts
unt-
sual
uite
em
was
nail
Her
I of
o a
had
~hle
*1
as
to
an
~ne,


218              AT ANCHO1~:                                          A STORY O~' OUR Civii1 WAR.

A thoroughbred coquette I knew her to be from
the first; hut t was surprised to find that, young as
she was, she had been several times engaged, and now
wore upon her forefinger a brilliant diamond, whose
giver she declared to be odious to her, but whose ring
she wore because it was pretty.
"Every thing he ever gave me," she said, "was on
a ma~nilcent scale.' I believe I came nearer loving
him than I ever did anybody."
"Whowas~Iie'?"
"My first love; I never told any one about him';'
itis quite a romance; I ha a great. mind to tell you,
if you promise beforehand never to tell any one, not
to laugh at me, nor to blame Ine.7~ .
"A womai~ will promise any thing to have her curi
osity gratified. Let us hear the story."
"I niu~t see you comfortably at your work first, for
it is a. long story;' but it is quite a romance, I assure
you; I mean to tell it to some authoress some day; it
would sound so nicely, all worked up into a novel,
with the fixings and framing they put in. Now I've
said so much, you will expect it to be more than it is,
and perhaps, after all, you won't think it interests
ing.
"Certainly I shall, and you can make it as long as
you please, only don't interrupt yourself with apolo-
gies, as you so often do, but tell the story straight on."
For I had a way o~' thinking my owu thoughts while

Gertie told her stories, and 'she never suspected that i:
was not an attentive listener.
"Well, you know, I went 'to school at Madame
Chegary's; and, as I have told you, in spite of all her
vigilance, remonstrances, and lectures, I did contrive
to have a pretty good time, and one or two flirtations.
I never did like tQ study, and was wild to go into
society, so that one year I got papa to promise that
I might leave school just as soonas I was sixteen, and
papa never breaks a promise. When the day came,
fbrI' knew papa would do as he said, I packed up my
book, kissed the girls all around the school, and posi-
tively refused to say any lessons. Every moment I
expected papa to come 'for me, but half the day was
spent in waiting before I heard a word, and ,then it
was a note from mamma; she was at the St. Nicholas,
--sick, of course; mamma's always sick,-where I was
to join her, and wait for papa to meet us, as soon as
lever he could get on. I did not like this much, I can
tell you, for mamma always sticks close to her room,
and to sing, or move, almost to breathe, sends her
into hysterics; so, of course, I did not look forward to
much pleasure.
"Every day we expected .papa to come, and so I
tried to be patient, and bear with. the best grace. I
could the imprisonment in mamma's room,' which w~s
w&amp;rse than any thing at Nfadaine's'; but of course "I'
was dreadf~iliy boiled, shut up, like a nun, 'in the great
10

U


.18

AT 4~WnOR:

hotel, with lots of fun going on everywhere, and not
the gIimm~ring of a chance to join in it, beyond a lit..
tie flirting now and then, in the passages, when I could
escape from mamma. You look shocked; of course I
would not do such things now; but that was ever so
many years ago, and I was very young and very wild;
and, you know, girls of sixteen very often do things
they. blush to remember at twenty,-~-~we won't say
twenty how much.
"After a day or two I went around to see the
girls; you may be sure I did not tell them what a
stupid time I was having. I made a great deal of talk,
as if I had been having a royal time. When they
coaxed and teased me to go with them to a concert
that -night, I pretended to consider, and finally said,
if mamma had made no engagement for me I would.
- Mammal had bought me some lovely new dresses, and
just the dearest opera-hat in the world; th~re~s one thing
I will say for mamma, she has perfect taste in dress.
"When I got, home mamma told me I had had a
call ~om some one who had not asked to see her; the
card was around the room somewhere, she said. I
went around hunting for it, mighty curious, you may
well lielieve, to know who had called on me. It~asa
gentleman's name, mamma condescended to remember. -
I i~ou1d only imagine some of the 'day-scholars had put
thei3~ brother~ up~ toA, it, or -that possibly some of the
fe11ow8, -we, nsed to flirl~ with had found me out, and

'I

A STORY OF OU1~ CIVIL WAR.

219

had the impudence to call. This last supposition gave
me a good fright. At last I found the card.7 It was
a written card. I remember just how I felt when I
read the name. Ifeigho! I have read -that name
many times since! Well, on the back of the card was
a note. I think I can remember it: -
"'.211~, dear ill iss Vane,
'Isaw your name in the l1~t of arrivals in last
evening's paper. Is not .Mr. Vane coming -on soon Y
I am very much disappointed not to meet you, but
will call again to-morrow. - if Ican be made useful,
in .2Wr. Vane's absence, do not hesitate to command me.
I am at the Everett House.   GILBEBT STUART.'
"Isn't it a romantic name? I thought so then
and I think so now. I did not know the man from
Adam. There was a horrible old fogy whom I used
to know in-Virginia, by the name of Stuart, bu he
couldn't have written such a note to save his life. It
was such a round, full hand, yet so graceful and
formed,-I will show you some time,-that I knew the
man who wrote it must be nice; and I was mighty
sorry I was not his Miss Vane, for of course, you
know, the note had-been taken to the wrong room. I
knew the little note all by heart before I could make
up my mind to send it to the right Miss Vane, for you
can imagine, in a life such. as mine had been, the least
little --excitement was very welcome. At last; ho~~

!


220             AT ANCHOR:                                          A STORY OF OUR CIYIL WAR.    221

ever, I got my courage up, and sent the waiter with
the little card to the other Miss Vane, while I sat
wishing. I don't suppose women, like you, ever do
such foolish things; but sillygiris, such as I expect
always to be, do give way to such wishes sometimes.
I sat wishing my time had come for gentlemen to send
me dear little notes, and put themselves at my service,
when back came the waiter. There wasn't any other
Miss Vane, nor hadn't been any other Miss Vane, at
the hotel. I took back the card, and had a great mind
to let him call and see me before finding out his mis-
taka; but I knew it would not do, so I wrote him a
line, just as nicely as I could write, and told him the
mistake he had made; before I had time to seal it the
girls came, and I went to the concert.
"Now if I hadn't been hurried off without sealing
that letter what a difference there would have been in
the lives of at least, two persons; for Lottie Ellis,
who sat next me at the concert,-for which concert, be
it known, we neither of us cared a rush,-Lottie Ellis
somehow got out of me about the card, and as she is
always ready for mischief, she said, 'Oh, I wouldn't do
such a silly thing as to send it back. He may be some
one who has been in love with you this ever so iong,
who has taken this way for meeting you, and it is flying
right in the face of destiny to do such a ridiculous
thing; wait and see what comes of it. I :would act the
real Miss Vane, if it so be that it is not you he means.'

I

"'How can I? he will know the difference the
minute he sees me,' I said, 'and that will be to'
morrow.'
"'Oh, you goose!' said she, 'what need to let him
see you? There are fifty places where you can be
when he calls ;~ it isn't to be expected that you. can
stay in all day to wait for him, and afterwards you
can write a lovely little note of regret. You know
you write the sweetest notes.'
"'Oh! I would not dare,' I said, 'he would know
it was not her writing.'
"'Ten chances to one he has never seen her writ-.
ing,' Lottie urged, 'and besides, ladies all write alike;
you can write as if in a great hurry, and if it is very
unlike her hand, and he knows it, he will lay it to that.
But I believe you are the Miss Vane; he is some one
who is in love with you, I know. I'll tell you; don't
send the letter yet, and we can go to the parlor to-
morrow and see him,-I can, not you, for the waiter
would be sure to say there is Aliss T'~ine,-aud I will
report what he looks like. You can give the waiter
orders to say you are not at home.'
"I consented to that, of course for there was noth-
ing in doing that much, and the next day Lottie came
bright and early, as glad of the fin, almost, as if she
were the principal in it.
"With the most exemplary patience she sat in
first parlor and waited; with far less patience I sat

*

/


up, stairs and waited. At last Lottie rushed up stairs
almost outt of breath, and, as by good luck, mamma
was all day too sick to rise, we had a grand talk.
Lo1~tie was perfectly enchanted; she said he was hand-
some as ~. prince, tall and splendkl a school-girl's beau
ideal, tall and splendid and dark. No school-
girl's hero ever had any but dark eyes and black hair,
nor did he ever fail to be tall and splendid. 'Oh,
he looked so disappointed!' Lottie told me; 'it was
the richest fun ever was! I won't let you give it up
now; I am just in love with him myself; and if I were
in your place I would have him dead in love with me
in a week. Now, I've got to go home soon,. and
before I go I want to see your note written, fbr it
wouldn't do not to write something. Evidently the
man is in love with .A1188 Vane, whether Miss Vane
means you or somebody else; just as evidently he is
not engaged to her, or he would not call her. Miss; it
is also very clear that he is on good terms with her;
and if with so much knowledge to start with, you and
I do not succeed in making a pretty big romance, we
are not of much account.' We got pen, ink, and
paper, and after much plotting and planning succeed-
ed in getting up a very non-committal note; we 'did
not know how soon Mr. Vane would be on,' were
'sorry to have put him to the trouble of balling twice
in vain,' would 'ask him to call that evening, but were*
going . to Wallack's '-4~ottie and her brother had

222

AT - ANonon:

already engaged me to go there. That was all,
signed with my initials.
* "In the middle of the play that night at Wallack's,
Lottie pressed my arm; directly opposite us, standing,
was a man, the same, Lottie said, as he who had
asked for me. Oh! but he was handsome! I would
have risked a great deal more than I had risked to
have such a man in love with me. Such fire, reserved
fire, such quiet spirit, such force, such character in
every look and gesture! I can't help liking him a
little bit now, as I think of it. He was that kind of a
man that if you once got in the way of caring for him,
you could not get out of it; he would always sort of
hold you, even after you had stopped loving him. I
forgot to tell you he sent a most beautiful bouquet to
me before it was time to go to the theatre, with a note
thanking me for mine, telling me he had to start un-
expectedly for Philadelphia, and if it 'would interest
me he would like to give me the latest news from that
quiet city. I deserve some compensation for my repeat-
ed disappointments,' he wrote. This was just what
Lottie and I most Wanted, and after I came from the
theatre I answered his note, and gave him the desired
permission. I told him I was very much bored in New
York, that I had read all the books I could lay hands
on, and written up. all my letters, and was very will-
ing and glad to be amused. The first answer to my
letter was a couple volumes of poems sent from Apple-

228

222              AT ANCHOR                                             A STORY OF OTYR CIVIL WAR.      223


224              AT XN~OHOR:                                          A STORY OF OUR C~V1L WAR.      225

tens', beautifully. bound; one was 'Idyls of the
King' which had just come out, and the other the
most complete volume of Whittier I had ever seen.
'When he wrote me he spoke of them: 'He hoped,' he
wrote, 'I. had not already read the Idyts of the King,
for they would furnish me with dreaming for months
to come; and as for Whittier-he knew I would find
his poems always fresh.' 13~vidently he knew her taste
well."
"Evidently," I said, seeing, I was expected to say
something.
"It isn't to be supposed," she went on, "that I
was very enthusiastic about that Quaker fanatic's
poems, but his sending it proved to me. conclusively
that he thought I was not I."
"How could you doubt it?" I asked.
"I don't know; men do all sorts of things if a
pretty face strikes' their fancy. Well, to continue, or
my story will never be finished. He wrote me often;
Iwish I had his lettershere~ I am sure they would
interest you; they r~early broke my heart to read and
think they were not for me! Such witty letters, so
entertaining, so sensible, with a sort of tender tone
running all through them! What a woman she must
have been to have inspired' such a man with such a
devotion!"
"How much easier than one less a man," I said,
"it was because the man was himself so grind that he

loved so grandly; ten times a better wox~an could not
have inspired a lesser man with half such love. But
go on."
"In one of his letters he said: 'Hoping it will not
be long before I shall see you in your summer home,
I cannot wholly regret my disappointment in New
York, since it was the cause of your melting in so far
as to write me. That little card you sent me at the
Everett House was the very first scrap of your writ-
ing I had ever seen.' This encouraged me very.
extensively, you may believe, and after that I wrote
more carefully. I was always proud of my writing.
I was very careful of the matter of my letter&amp; as well,
writing nothing of mamma, papa, nor any people I
met, but of books, music, amusements, lectures that I
read or heard, and considerably of my own feelings
and thoughts. He opened his very soul to me."
"Oh, b~oW could you 1" I interrupted; "it was a
thousand times meaner than stealing or listening be~
hind doors, this appropriating thoughts intended for
another, this reading his heart !~"
"You were not to blame me, Mrs. Abertlinay; that
was in the bond. If you begin to blame me there will
be no end to your indignation."
"Then I will not," I said; "but tell me, what did
you expect the man to think, of you when your-mi&amp;.
talce was to come to light, as come, of course, it must?"
"Oh, my clear Mrs. Aberthnay, you must be very
10*


226               AT A~CHQB:
innocent! AB if there were not fifty ways of getting
out of a wc~rse scrape than that! I had no fear but I
should come out of it all right as far as his opinion
went. My only fear was, what effect I should have
upon his affections, for I loved him with all the ro-
mance of a first love, and as I could never love any
man whom I. met in the regular proper manner.
Stolen fruit is always the sweetest, and there was
never sweeter fruit than that I stole that 'winter. You
must know, during the time I was writing, papa came
on and had business in Washington, where he wanted
to tate a house, but mamma would not listen to such
a thing; so it was decided we should remain at the
hotel, and papa come on when he could. As mamma
generally keeps him in hot water when they are to-
gether, I have no doubt he was very much relieved
by the decision, except for me; but I was doing very.
well. Several ladies had taken a fancy to me, and
took me around; and as I was y9uug, wore pretty
dresses, and reported,-as all Southern girls in the
North are reported to be,-an heiress, I had beaux
enough; and with pretty dresses and plenty of beaux
a girl must be hard to please who cannot contrive
to enjoy herself. Very often Mr. Stuart used to write
about Mr. Vane, and. as it was just possible .M~'. Vane
might not be Miss Vane's papa, I always spoke of him
as Mr. Vane'; but fearing he might be a near relative,
I put the Mr. Vane in quotation marks, and alliwent
a

A STORY OF OUR CIViL WAR.      22Z

on unsuspiciously, and we were despei~tely in love
with each other, when I 'received a hurried note: Mr.
Stuart would be at the hotel the next morning. Wha~t
the warrior feels when he hears the trumpet blast, and
so on, felt little I, as the terrible crash was coming.
By this time my impatience had grown so great that
I had become almost unable to wait, for I felt I must
have him securely mine beyond a doubt or fear, and
the announcement that .1 was to see him came at the
right moment.
"I never before or since studied my toilet more
than I did that morning, mamma helping me."'
"That reminds me, what did your mamma think of
all this proceeding?" I asked.
"Mamma! As if I should tell mamma! Mamma
would have afit at the mere suggestion of my writing to
a man. I never even told Lottie Ellis half about it."
"But how contrive to have your mother's assist-
ance?"
"Get mamma on dress and every faculty is absorb~
ed; she would walk quite unconsciously over burning
plough-shares, if interested, in that' matter4 I told her
r had a fancy for looking pretI~y that day, and she
made me pretty. As Cherubina would say, 1 never
looked so lovely, yet my dress was apparently simple -
enough: a gray cashmere morning dress, quilted with
blue, slippers, ribbons, embroidery, all perfectly ex~
~quisite. I was hardly dressed mamma, of course, re


228                  AT A~rrniol~:                                                    A STORY 01' OUR cxvxi4 w~.            229

tiring with a sick headache to her room, after the ex-
ertion, than his card was brought me. I had deter-
mined on nothing; I only trusted to myself; and felt
sure of myself that whatever I did it would be the
best. I wonder if my heart will ever beat aga~as~t
did that morning on the way to the parlor; again
quoting Cherubina: my excitement only enhanced m~y
1ove1ine&amp;~. Shall I tell the rest in detail?"
"Do not lose a word; I am intensely interested."
"Thank you; you are real good. Well, I went to
the parlor, in which the servant told me he was ; he
stood at the door, more ;royal, more handsome, than
the time i~ saw him before. He started as he saw me,-
I know I looked well that day,-and stood back for me
to pass. I gave him one clear, full glance, half search-
iug,-for you know I was looking for my visitor,-as
I went by him, and it did affect him."
"I do not wonder," I said; "I have seen the effect
of smaller glances on Dr. Carr. Go on."
"Then I went into the parlor and looked around,
and saw in the glass that his impatience for Mademoi-
selle's appearance did not prevent his turning around
to look at me. Ah! how many pillars of salt ther~
would be, if all the world were punished like Lot's
wife!"
"They turn inwardly to sticks and stones, which
is worse," I said. "Don't moralize; go on."
"I went into the other parlors an~ came back and

I

F

* looked at him, and half advanced; he looked at me,
and there was ~some s~iow of intelligence in his face.
At last I spoke timidly: 'I beg your pardon; is this,
-I am sure it is ~ Stuart?'
"'That is my name,' he said.
"'Mr. Gilbert Stuart?' I asked; 'and you have just
asked for Miss Vane?'
"'Yes!' he said, starting into animation; 'yes! Is
she not here?'
"'This is a funny meeting,' I said, very cordially,
laughing and holding out my hand, 'for two people
who have been spoiling reams of paper for each other's
benefit! I hardly suppose I ought to be surprised
that you should not recognize me, for four years make
a great difference at my age; but what have you done
to yourself? You do not look the least in the world
like yourself. Come to mamma's parlor.' Without
giving him time to answer, I turned into the hall, and
rattled all the way. 'I cannot tell you,-of course a
lady is not expected to,----the pleasure I have had from
your letters. I did not know you would take so much
trouble for. poor little me, whom you. used to tease so
4dreadfiully. Mamma will be so surprised to see you!
she has a sick headache, however, as usual, and will
* not be able to see you; but I shall tell her all about
it.' Other things I said more tenderer, as the children
say, and used my eyes with all my might. It was not
hard to look delighted affection and childish happiness
up to such a face as his.


230             AT ANCuOR:

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.       231

"I did not give him opportunity for a word until
we were fairly in mamma's parlor, and then his turn
came.
"'I do not know what to say,' he began confu-
sedly, 'I must shock and pain you. 1 am perfectly
bewildered myself; for I am fairly in your parlor with-
out having found voice to say you have made a mis-
take. I am Mr. Stuart,'it is true, and you are Miss
V~ne, I suppose.'
"'Undoubtedly,' I said, with wondering eyes.
"'The Miss Vane I asked for is another Mis&amp;
Vane.~
"'What do you mean?' I said, 'are you not Gil-
bert Stuart, who has been writing me from Philadel-
phia, and sent me word he would be here to-day?'
"'I am that Gilbert Stuart, but you-'
"'Do you really think I am so altered?' I said,
laughing heartily. 'Shall I have to wake up mamma
to provemy identity? Mamma hasn't changed; she
looks as she has done for ten years past, and as she
will for ten years to come; and I, little Gertie, about
up to .your knees the last time you ~w me, am her
perfect image, people say!'
"'My ilame is Gilbert Stuart.~ I have written to
a Miss Vane all winter, and sent her word that I
should meet her here; ~he may be in the parlor this
very moment: it is a singular coincidence that you,
too, should have had a Philadelphia correspondent of
the same name.'

"For answer, I took from my writing-desk a pack-
age of letters.
"'It. is a funny mistake,' I said, 'and a curious
coincidence. .Afy Mr. Stuart wrote me,'-I took out
his. last note,-' to expect him this morning; yourMiss
Vane may, as you say, be waiting in the parlor for
you. Afy Mr. Stuart will, without doubt, sc)on be
there. I am sorry to have detained you. It is quite
a Comedy of Errors. I must say, to explain it as far
as I can, that the other Mr. Stuart is a very intimate
family friend, whom I have not seen for so many years
that I should not be certain of recognizing him; and
although my remembrances of him are indistinct, they
do not point out a man like you, but I allowed for
time and the addition of whiskers!'
"'Naturally,' he answered, 'but nothing. could
prevent me from seeing that you and Miss Georgie
Vane could never be the same.'
"He bowed and was leaving the room, when, as
letters will, my package broke the elastic that bound
them, and two or three fell to the ground! he picked
them up, and oh! but he grew pale!
"'Another coincidence!' he exclaimed. 'I could
swear to that's being my writing,' and he pointed to
the address. I looked frightened, but answered light-
ly, 'I wonder if your style is the same also.' I opened
a letter and handed it to him.
" 'I wrote that letter,' he said,' and this-audi this,'
as I showed him others.


232               AT A~fCHOR:

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      233

"We were both pretty quiet for a while. At last
he said, with the air of a man who gives up-
"'All ~these letters were clearly written by the
same person, and that person me. It all comes of my
supposition. that there could be but one Miss Vane in
the world. It. all comes from that! I have often
thought the style of their answers was not like her
character; but I supposed it to be because people
often write so differently from the way they talk.
They were beautiful letters, it is true. I seem selfish-
this is a great disappointment to me.'
"We had been sitting while examining the letters.
He rose now, wearily enough; I folded and dropped my
hands. I did not need to act much for my heart was
really almost breaking. He saw the dejection of my
attitude, and was moved with pity.
"'This annoys you,' he began.
"'Annoys me!' I repeated, 'it kills me.'
"He came nearertome, 'I will myself bring you
every line you have ever written me, if you will allow
.me,' he said; 'it ought iiot to be necessary for me to
say I will never speak of this uiistake,-this cruel
rnis~ake,-to any one. I can never think of those beauti-
ful letters, nor of this morning's meeting, but with the
warmest admiration for their writer, and with the
bitterest regret that, young as you are, you could not
have been spared this mortification.'
"'You are kind,' I answered; 'I do not think of

the mortification. I found a man, and have lived
months in the belief that-that there was something
in life worth living for; it is hard that, young as I am,
that belief should be taken from me.'
"'Your friend Mr. Stuart-'
"' I never cared for him; never even like&amp; him,
until his letters won my whole heart. I often wonder-
ed how it could have been in him to write such letters;
I might have known it was not.'~
"'May be it is.'
"' I know it is not. Good-bye, dear letters! Ah,
Mr. Stuart, if you could have left me in my mistake!
These were so much my own, I thought, these letters,
and all the time 'they were not mine; I had no share
inthem
"'Do not say so,' he answered. 'Your letters
have acted like inspiration to me.'
"'You are kind,' I said; 'but nothing makes any
difference now.'
"'We have learned too much of each other,' he
finally remarked, ~ for us ever to feel that we are
strangers to each other. You have spoken so kindly
of my letters that I venture to hope I may come some-
times to see you.'
"' I should be obliged to explain to mamma,', I
answered, 'and she would be very angry. I do feel
that I know you better than those who have free
admittance here; but on mamma's account I would

.4


234               AT £&amp;CHoR:

A STORY OF OUR OWII~ w~.         235'

rather you came introduced. Very likely we have
mutual acquaintances here, and if you care for it, I
shall be glad.'
"We talked over everybody we knew without
any satisfactory result, until the idea struck me of
looking over a card-basket. 'Here is an invitation to
Mrs. Carter's for Friday,' I said, 'I wish you knew
Mrs. Carter.'
"' I know Mrs. Carter's son,' he answered, 'and I
feel pretty certain I see my way clear to a proper
introduction. I wish other things were as clear.'*
"I do not remember very much of what' foll~wed.
I said something about. returning the books he had
sent me, but he begged me to keep them, and I
did.
"I met him several times before the Friday of
Mrs. Carter's reception came around, but we passed
each other without recognition; I was fortunate
enough to blush every time, and he was not perfectly
self-composed. One day it was in a gallery of paint-
ings; there was never a collection of paintings without
containing at least one of A Y~un~, Girl'8 First Love.
letter. There was one in this gallery, and a pretty
picture it was. Mr. Stuart passed me while I was look-
ing at it. I had the grace to color as I said, in so low
a voice that I hardly knew if he understood me:
.' There ought to be a compaAon picture called The
.Mis~ake.' I did not look to see the effect of this

speech, 'but hurried away, and waited. and hoped for
Friday, with what patience I might
"Friday night. came, and again with all my art, and
all my mother's skill, I arrayed myself. It was at the
time when we wore the most extensive crinolln~e, and
the most abundant trimming, until women looked like
dolls with their entire wardrobe on their backs. I
had a silvery kind of dress, with tiny bouquets over
it, a train, and a profusion of natural flowers. I did
not go until very late; but, late as it was, I wa's there
before Mr. Stuart. I cannot tell you how wide and
empty that room looked to me, for my heart was wild
with hope and fear, and love and terror, that night.
At last he came, and leaning on his arm was a woman,
dazzlingly lovely, a novelist would say, mighty pretty,~
I must own. I rated inwardly, for it was easy
enough to guess she was the other Miss Vane. I had
hosts of beaux that night; Ihad saved several dances
for him if he should ask, and I did my best to be
admired that night. The time did come, although it
had seemed as if'it never would, when Mrs. Carter
came sailing toward me, and with her Mr. Stuart,
whom, in due and proper form she presented to me.
It would be some little time before I could dance with
him, but' he waited, and entertained himself in the
mean time with the lady he had brought, or who, per-
haps, had brought him. It was not Miss Vane, he
told me, but a Mrs. Somebody who had taken him

t
's -


2a8               AT A WaOR:                                           A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.       237

as escort,, and thereby gained him an introduction to
Mrs. Carter.
"I cannot tell you how that evening went, nor the
next, which we spent at a private exhibition of paint-
ings, to which the Mrs. Somebody insisted upon taking
him, and Mrs. Carter me.
"He made me several morning calls, and was
introduced to mamma.
"One day he came with my letters, which had
never got returned, and also with his adieux; he was
going home to Massachusetts that day.
"I said something about Miss Vane, which 'called
forth this reply: 'You are very much mistaken in re~
gard to my relations to Miss Vane. She is beautiful
and winning; but her life is so joyous, her position so
full of sunshine, that a man would commit a sacrilege
almost who could woo her from such a home, and I
have never spoken one word of more than ordinary
friendship to her.'
"'There was more than, ordinary friendship in those
letters,' I aziswered, 'or so it seemed to me when I
thought that I-' Have you ever thought, Mrs.
Aberthnay, how much more that means which you
leave unsaid than any thing you could say?
"I cannot tell you how long we talked, nor at what
particular point I covered my face with my hands, and
let him guess that I cared for him. Nothing that he
could say consoled me, and it was hard for him to

leave me, feeling as I did. He talked a long time,
kindly, tenderly, as a brother might have done, only a
brother would have growled and called you a goose,
-and finally rising, took my hand to say good-bye.
It is very shocking; buti'm obliged to confess he took
my hand, but deferred the good-bye; and before he
got to the good-14'e, I had dried my tears, and with
his arms around me saw his grand eyes looking down
lovingly into mine. Even then I knew it was more a
pitying tenderness than the devoted love he would
have given the other that was mine; but I took gladly
what I could get, and loped for more.
"Mamma was quite satisfied, and planned half my
trousseau, while he was telling her all that he would
try to do for me. He wrote to papa, and papa pro-
fessed himself satisfied if mamma and I were, and all
went merry as a marriage belL"
"This other Miss Vane," I said, "did she care
much for him, do you think?"
"I never~ thought about it, but I was frantically
jealous of her. Well, we were engaged, and this is
the diamond that sealed the engagement. You may
think I was happy, for I loved him almost to madness,
but I was not; I did ~iot fill his heart, and, that I did
not, hurt and irritated me. After a time he went on
home, and we corresponded again. Whether he flirted
with Miss Vane, the historian relateth not; but it is very
certain that I flirted wildly, any thing to feel .1 eduld

I


238              AT ANCHOI~.

inspire some affection. I ran a wild course, and many
is the man for whom I ~cared not the snap ~of my fin
gers, who believes to thi~ day that my childish fancy
had been beguiled into an engagement irksome to me,
and that my heart was his, as my hand would have
been, could I have freed myself from my bond.
"One of these men was Mr. Carter, with whom I
one night went to a children's party, and came home
about half-past nine. And when I came home there
met me Gilbert; but Gilbert pale, thin, and stern. I
suppose he was jealous; for, after some conversation,
rather restrained on both sides, he said: 'Gertrude,
do you think we love each other very much?'
"' I don't know about you,' I said; 'I love every-
body,-some more than others, though.'
." 'And this Mr. Carter,-may I ask his degree?'
*      "i7love Mr. Carter about as much, we will say, as
you love Miss Georgie Vane.' I like a ftian to get
jealous; you can manage him as easy as breathing,
then.
"'And if I should love Miss Georgie Vane with all
my heart. and soul, in life and in death, her and her
only, what would you say?' he exclaimed.
*     "'That you were a coward and a 4raitor,' I re-
plied promptly; 'a man whom both ought to scorn,
for you.have not courage to be true to either~'
It is true,' he said.
"'It was my misfortune,' I continued, 'to love you
I-

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.       239
before I knew you; an~1. when I knew you, you ~t.
tempted to be generous; you offered me your heari;
and hand,-I gavc~ you mine, freely; you chose me, at
least a8lCed me, to be your wife; and you dare come to
me, your affianced bride-to .me with your ring on my
finger, your vows in my ears-and talk of love for some
one else! How proud would she be of such a love!
How strong it must be, since it triumphs over your
duty, your honor, your grand self-sacrifice, and Qh!. so
constant!'
"'Do not you taunt me!' h~ said. 'She has the
Tight to scorn me, and she is gentleness and kindness
itself.'
"'No doubt!' I cried; 'you are to be treated with
much gentleness; you ought to be tenderly cared for,
and greatly pitied, that you should be bound to one'so
unworthy as me.'*
"'Oh, Gertie, spare me!' he said. 'I know you are
a thousand times too lovely and too good for me.
Pity me to-night, for my heart is breaking. I have
had that to bear lately which I could just bear, and no
more.'
"'What is it you wish of me?' I asked. 'To free
you? To ghre you liberty to marry the other Miss
Vane ?'
"'It is not possible,' he answered; 'but it is pos.
sible that you and I, who are to hold the dearest rela~
tions of earth to each other, should try to see each

1


240              AT A1~CHOR:                                       A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      241

other at ~the best, and to be kind and forbearing to
each other. I know you have too mgch reasoir to
doubt me; but I hope to show you~yet that I can be
strong and firm.'
"A great deal more he said; I cried, and he who.
came, I am convinced, to make one desperate effort for
his freedom, went away more firmly bound than ever."
"How could you take love merely~as duty, or con-
sent to be second where you should be 'first?" I
asked.
"Because," ~ai4 Gertrude, "I loved him, as I have
told ~you, :almost to madness, and I always thought he
would end by loving me as I wished. Then, again, I
hated Miss Georgie Vane, and was determined to hold
him until, come what would, she should not have him;
again, if there's any jilting to be done, it is the lady's
privilege to make the first move; and although I should
not have married him on his half-love I liked his at-
tentio~ns, and I was resolved some day he should love
me, and suffer for me.
"In due course of time Miss Georgie Vane took unto
herself a husband, Gilbert himself told me; and not
long after that eveiit my father and Gilbert had a
quarrel on politics, which fwmished me.with another
excuse for delaying our marriage, which I meant
should be delayed until he* fully loved me. tThen
came the wait"
"]~oes he love y~u: satisfactorily now?" I asked.

"I neither know nor care. I would not marry
him now for all the world~
" Why not ? ".
"He is a Yankee; you don't suppose I would
marry a Yankee, do you?"
"You would if you loved him."
"If I married all the men I havebeen in love with
I should have a pretty string of wedding-rings~ I
never saw that man yet that I was fally willing to
marry,-if I could get any one else. I don't want to
be an old maid; nobody does. I like them all for a
while; but it is a little while. The man that finally
gets me. must court and marry me in a short space of
time."
"I will tell your next admirer of that little eccen-
tricity of yours. What did this Mr. Stuart say when
you announced your final intention?" -
"I have never announced it. He will find it out
sooner or later. I scorn any communication with a
vile Yankee!"
"Even so much as to return a Yankee's diamonds?"
"I suppose you are right. If I know any one go-
ing N9rth I. will send him back his things. He cax~
give this ring to Miss Vane."
"Tell him you send it to her~~~
"She is married."
"N'importe. It Will be optional with ~him.'1
"I will," ~he said; and so ended Gertrude's story,
11

r.

241

24O


CHAPTER XXI.
NOT two weeks after, Gertrude had another story
to telL Dr. Carr's assiduous attentions had not been
without their natural effect upon that young lady's
impressible heart. She loved him, she said, as woman
never loved before; and more to the same effect.
"Before there was war," Gertrude informed me,
"I always declared I would marry a doctor, for his is
the noblest of professions. A man cannot be a good
doctor without he loves his profession, and he cannot
love his profession without loving and honoring hu-
man nature-"
"Hear! hear!" I interrupted; "Miss Gertie Vane
on doctors."
It is true," she returned; "I said so before I ever
knew Dr. Carr. A good doctor is always a good hus-
band; he appreciates us women, and our patience,
energy, and 'resignation. That was before the war;
8i~e 14~e war, it is, of course, every girl's ambition to
marry a soldier. how mean will look the house,
twenty years from now, in which there is neither flag,

U

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.       243
sword, nor musket! Few are so happy as I that I can
unite my two ambitions, and marry a soldier doctor.
But, Mrs. Aberthnay, dear Mrs. Aberthnay, what Aa~e
I said?"
For my face was burning, and for the first time
since Carl's death tears came to my eyes. Oh! Ten-
nyson knew well the true' life of this world when he
summed up its miseries in that one sentence:
"Lost to use, and name, and fame."
Carl would not yet have been thirty years old
and I was nearly five years younger, and what was
there left of or for either of us? His enemies held
his sword, and he could never fight it back. On the
walls of my house, twenty years from now, there.
would be neither flag, sword, nor musket. The right-
ful doom of a traitor, you say. Oh! I implore you
not; I go oii my knees to you,-say not that black
word over my noble husband. Were he even that, you
could wish him no worse doom than was already his-.
"lost to use, and name, and fame." Put the harshest
judgment on my actions, and give them their sternest
sentence, and it would be a sentence no harder than
that I was already bearing. All the labor without the
fruit, all the battle without the victory, all the suffer-
ing without the crown! "How mean," said Gertrude;
"will look the house twenty years from now, in which
there is neither flag, nor sword, nor ~m~sket?" AiPT


244              AT A~rcHoR:                                           A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      245

that was to be the end of our house, his house and
mine,-two noble names bound together,~~nd only
shame their fruit, two weary, suffering lives, and their
misery barren!
Would it have been better had he lived? I say
yes. Yes, I would rather point out to another genera-
tion the flag, battle stained and conquered, that
borne by a heart that, though erring, thought itself
right, had sliced death though in a wrong cause, than
the rarest frescoed walls free of any battle sign or
trophy. For him who can live in the midst of heroic
deeds, and not even think a courageous thought; for*
him who can live surrounded by brave lives, and have
no desire to emulate them; for him without the patriot-
ism, the honor, or the manliness to decide and decid-
ing .to act, there is a contempt such as no mortal can
ever feel for a brave man, though brave for the wrong
side.
I did not tell Gertrude why I bent my head, and,
startled by the suddenness of her remark, gave way
to my sad thoughts, my life long desolation.
When I again saw Dr. Carr I gave him a hint of
Gertrude's little eccentricity; he took it very well,
"Gertrude is a good girl," he said, "but as fickle as a
May morning; but a firm hand and a kind rule will
make all things right. I have seen just such girls,
after breaking hearts by the score, 'settle down into
l~he very cosiest and nicest of wives. Besides, Gertie is

9

so handsome, a man would risk considerable for
her."
"She is very lovely," I~ answered, "and most
affectionate."
"I have set you an excellent example," Dr. Carr
said, "and been most obedient to all your hints and
instructions. May I presume to interfere a little in
your affairs? You are reputed a most loyal woman,
and considered a model of patriotism; no one knowing
your character at all could, for a moment, doubt that
you would be both' loyal and devoted to any govern.
ment were it that of Tippoo Sahib, or any other savage
or tyrant known to the world. I do not think you
change your convictions easily, I even think the force
of habit is stronger with you than with almost any
one I have ever met. Once your thoughts get in a
'groove they will not be easily moved; that switch is
not invented that will run you off the track. With
this view of your character it is not strange, is it?
that I should sometimes think your loyalty and your'
patriotism are jifst where they were when ~ou lived
in the shadow of Bunker Hill, and the Yankee Cradle
of Liberty, Somebody's Hall."
"Well?" I said.
"If it were not so, it must, for many other ~reasons,
~be lonely for you here in a country where you are
almost a stranger, and entirely without relatives.' My
little Gertie and I have talked it over often, and since


246               AT A~icnoI~:                                          A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.       24~

Col. Vane's promotion, we think it would be quite
easy for you to go back to the North, if you should
desire it."
"Dr. Carr," I answered, "with all my heart and
soul' and mind and strength, I love, honor, and believe
in the United States, and with all the strength of my
soul I yearn to be there, but I doubt my right. I can
do good here; I do not know that I can there. I do not
deserve that I should be given that dearest wish of
my heart. I refused the protection of the North when
it was freely offered to me; have I a right to take it
p
now?"
"If you talk of right and duty, and that sort of
thing, why, I am vanquished at once. I have here a
8afe pass to Gen. Vane's headquarters; you may take
it. and use it if you will; if not, I will repeat the words
you have just spoken. Gertie will swear to any thing
I tell~ her, and you wilk be tried, convicted, and pun-
ished a~ a traitor. You.may choose."
"You are peremptory; a woman scorns to oppose
force. I will go."
I .had a call from Mrs. Vane, the first time I had
ever met that interesting lady.
She was in a state of perpetual flutter: "You have
taken so much interest in Gertrude," she said, "and
have been so very kind to her, that I quite feel as if
you belonged to the family, and as if I could speak
freely before you. I am quite Qpposed to Gertie's

marrying the doctor. We have suffered a great deal
from the war. All Mr. Vane's property is at the North,
and would scarcely be available' even if there were no
war, for there was a disagreement between 'Mr. Vane
and his relatives. Indeed I might as well be frank
with you. Mr. Vane was a widower when I married
him. His former wife must have been a very peculiar~
woman; at any 'rate, she was the cause of unpleasant
feeling between Mr. Vane and his brother, and they
have never been on good terms since, and none of his
relatives will ever do any thing for Gertie, I feel con-
vinced. Before the war Gertie wa's engaged to a very
exemplary young man by the name of Stuart; he was
very fond of her, and I am quite convinced will wait
for her, and claim her when the war is over. I do
entreat you to use your influence with Gertie,-she wrn
do any thing for you,-to induce her to postpone her
marriage, if she. will not break it off altogether; the
doctor has nothing to live on, nor Gertie either, and
every thing is so dear. I don't know how I can ever
get her a proper trousseau. It will take nearly a year's
pay to marry her as a daughter of mine' should be
married. It is no use for me to say this to Gertie, she
is so headstrong; she thinks sh&amp; knows more than any
one else. Mr. Stuart was rich, and, I suppose, still is
wealthy, and is in every respect a better match for her."
"But Gertie 'is so very Southern, I do not think
she would be willing to marry a Union man."

L


248              AT ANCHOR:.                                          A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      249

j "Fiddle-de-dee! Gertie talks very large but she
does not care the worth of a, pin. iler father means
she shall go North very soon; she will probably meet
Mr. Stuart again, and every thing be settled. lie
always liked Gertie more than she thought, but she
plagued him terribly; they will both love each other
better for the long separation.
"And Dr. Carr?"
*   "It is very easy for a woman of the world to see
Dr. Carr is only attracted by Gertie's pretty face, and
in six monti s they will be as indifferent to each other
as if they. had never met. I am so used to Gertie's
ways. The only man who could ever make any thing
of her is Mr. Stuart, and I am persuaded that if they
could meet again they would become very much
attached to each other. Do persuade Gertie to wait
a little. Oh! if she would only go North with you!"
Mrs. Vane little knew what she asked of me! Just
as every seemed clear between Gilbert and my-
self, there came this new complication.
"I will certainly speak to Gertie," I answered,
"and ifshecan be indeed to go to New York, or North
anywhere, I will take every ,~care of her; my house
shall be her home, and I think myself that if she again
meets Mr. Stuart their engagement will be renewed.
I decidedly approve of its being broken first, and if
renewed let it be at hi~ urgent solicitations. Let us not
interfere, he will like her all the better, thinking he has
lost her."

One thing, however, I did intend; to make no
foolish self-sacrifice for her sake. It should be a fair
field, and no quarter between us.
I found Gertie very willing to postpone her mar-
riage. Nothing was said about her going North, but
it was considered possible I might be able to send her
a few things for her bridal toiette. She would wait a
year for the possibility.
Dr. Carr bore it better than I expected. "There
is some thought of her being sent North," I said;
"I cannot. promise you to keep her constant."
"Do not try it, my dear Mrs. Aberthnay; I am
already over the first heat of my love, for I am as in-
constant as Gertie. If it ~8 to be, it will be,-if not,
no fretting will make it better."
"Will you take his letters back?" Gertie said to
me. "I have addressed them; you can put them in
the express at New York."
"If it were not for Dr. Carr, I suppose you would
come with me?"
"I don't know; are they stupid there, do you sup-
pose? I would like a little excitement."
"I will keep a room ready for you," I answered,
"any tim&amp;$rou feel inclined to take a run up North
I shall be overjoyed td see you."
And so we separated.
11*


A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      251

CHAPTER XXIL
I WAS received with great kindness by Gen. Vane,
to whom Gertrude had written so much of me, he said,
that he quite felt as if he knew me.
"I am very much obliged to you for your kindness
to my little girl. There is a world of good in that
light heart of hers if one only gets at it. Her mother,
whc~ has not half her character, is* always in a fret
about her. One of those unfortunate cases of a corn-
plete misunderstanding between mother and daughter;
another result of the abominable system of education
which we admire ~o much in this country. I don't in
the least doubt that there is a natural virtue called
filial affection. It is equally undeniable that that af-
fection, like all other affections; is keen-sighted and
very jealous. It will not have its object less loved,
less honored than others; and if that object fails to
win the honor and love of others, or show itself wor-
thy to gain that honor, it is very clear it will lose
that which came to it naturally. Mrs. Vane was a
brilliant woman when I married her. If Gertie had

*1

known her then, she would have bent to her with per-
fect docility, but, like all American women,-no, I
* will make a few exceptions,-she allowed marriage to
be the end of her life, when it is really the beginning
of a woman's existence; all that goes before is but a
preparation for this. When Gertie was old enough to
find companionship with her mother,-when her mind
was fresh, undisciplined, incomplete, but still a mind,
what had her mother to offer? She had forgotten her
Frenchshehadgivenuphermusicsheonlyreada
few novels and the cookery-book,*~he had given up
society and society graces, she had ceased taking in-
terest in people; and what was Gertie to do? She
snubbed her 'mother in a way at which I had to blush.
She made no allowances; what child ever did? She
Went her own way, and found con~'panionship where
she could; and, disappointed in her mother's society,
judged her deficient in every thing."
"It is the story of a thousand others," I said.
"I ought to make one exception," he added, "since
you have seen so much of my family to make candor
a necessity. Gertie bows down to her mother in one
respect; in one thing she trusts her judgment im-
plicitly,. that great and mighty theme of dress!"
"It proves what could have been done if her re-
spect could have been excited by other things. It is
an old story, that no two people can meet a dozen
times without discussing. I have great hopes that


252              AT ANCHOR:                                          A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      253.

this war will make a change in this respect; there will
be made so many sudden fortuues by the 'people,'
that rank and position will cease to depend, as it. has
hitherto, on wealth. Mind, character, and education
will define station; men and women are learning now
on how very little they can live comfortably, and the
cares of luxury will no longer take precedence of
every attainment; and women, relieved from the
charge of* large establishments, will have~ more time
and strength to be accomplished, intelligent, and
good-tempered."
"A dream of Utopia, my dear Madam. You have
seen yourself that the love of display is as strong
in the Southern cities as it ever has been, i~nd the only
result of the much-vaunted economy of our women
will be to . show them how much more they can 'do
than they thought they could; and when the old order
comes back, there will be this new order to double
thejr burden. In the North, we hear, extravagance is
.running riot."
"But it will soon run its course," I said; "and I
doubt not, women South and North will learn.to blush
to go feasting in purple and fine linen, while every
day new hearts are sitting desolate in their mourning.
Mrs. Vane tells me there is some prospect that Gertie
will go to New York. I shall be most happy to re-
ceive her if~you will let her come to me, and perhaps
we two may do each other good."

"You go back to ~your parents, I suppose?"
"I have none; my mother died before I can re-
member, and of my father I know only that he seems
to have forgotten my existence. My uncle, who took
me as his own child when my mother died, has ever
been tenderness and generosity itself in my regard."
"If; instead of that black dress, and wearing your
hair tight under that widow's cap, you were dressed
in brilliant colors, with your hair arranged as it was
worn twenty-five years ago, you would be a living
portrait of some one I once knew."
"I shall never have the heart to wear brilliant
colors again, for the reason~ that I have left my girl-
hood and my wealth behind me; still if; after the war
is over, you will allow me to thank you in my own
home for enabling me to reach it, and if it would be
a pleasant picture, I should be glad to array myself to
please you.~~
"It would not be a pleasant picture," he answered
abruptly. "May I ask your maiden name?"
"Georgie Vane"
"I supposed so. If you have not had your sus-
picions, you ~must be slower of perception than I think
you; but, taught as you must have been to hate me I
wonder your mother's daughter* would stoop to ac-
cept any thing from her husband's hands."
"I have never been taught to hate you," I an-
swered; "and in accepting my safety from your

252

AT ANonon :

253


254               AT A~TCHOR:

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      255

hands, I believe I take only what it is your right and
pleasure to give. I have never sat in judgment upon
you~ It is twenty-five years since those things hap-
pened; and I doubt not you are painfully wiser now
than you were then. If I am like my mother, or
rather if she were like me, there can be not a wish or
thought of revenge in her heart. Yet, as there is
a ce4ain poetic justice sometimes occurring in this
world, permit me to say that I consider it has been
fully meted out to you, insomuch that, having once
known and loved, and been loved by a woman such as
my mother was, you have bound yourself to life-long
companionship to a woman such as her successor is."
"Those words are bitter enough to cancel half of
those I said to your mother; but I like them better
than milder ones, for they show me at least you do
not despise the reputed character of your father so
much that you will not honor him with your sarcasms.
You have grown ~a daughter to be proud of."
"And you, sir, were we to meet as simply friends,
would soon win my admiration. I make no claims to
any especial tenderness for you; if I judge you ever,
~judge you as a man, not as my father, or my mother's
unappreciative husband."
"You are very kind! Perhaps we may meet some
time again, for I do claim especial tenderness for you;
I do claim the warmest feeling of my life for you; and
as I never longed for love even from my first love,

youi' mother, I do yearn for a kinder feeling from
yoU.
"You must win it, then, sir; for it is absolutely
not in my power to give it otherwise. Filial affection,
you said not an hour ago, was a natural virtue-; it is
dead in my heart.; but there is room above its grave
for the growth of a vigorous affection, I assure you."
"If there is any thing left of me, body or soul,
when this war is over, I shall try to plant something
there."
"Yet coldly as I have spoken, sir, do not think it
is nothing to me that I have found a father. I thought
my life was dead since it had lived in vain. My hus~
band, as you know, died a prisoner; my uncle is o14
and not married, and is lately rendered quite infirm by
a fall from a horse, from which he can never fully re-
cover; there is no one to l'ay up honor for my name
when this war has' passed; there is no name, a name
of use and fame, to which I can point, and say I was
something to him."
"I understand you. But you are yet only a girl;
your beauty is not yet at its height; you can and I
hope will marry again, and this time let it be to some
soldier who will hang the Federal flag over the black
stain of a rebellious husband and a traitor father."
I flushed a little; but I only answered by speak-
ing of Gertie. "If she comes North she will come to
me?"

I


256                    AT ANOU01~.

"I thank you," he said stiffly; "I prefer she should
go to her mother's relatives. It is ~iow time for me to
leave you; I think you understand precisely every
thing that you have to do. I do not believe you will
have any difficulties of moment; I will attend to Ma.
jor Aberthnay's property, and hope I shall be able to
preserve it for you." He paused a moment, then took
out his watch, a magnificent one. "It is scarcely fit
for a lady's use," he continued'; "but I doubt not your
uncle, who seems to have transferred,.-i will not
make you angry, so no matter,-1 am poor in memen.
toes now, but I pray you accept this as a pledge of
remembrance, or a~ any thing you choose. I presume
it would be asking toQ much grace to request a line
some tim~ to assure me of your safe~ arrivaL?"
" Should I find an 'opportunity to send you I will
write with pleasure."
Then David and I turned our hacks on the land of
the South, and with our faces N~orthward hurried on
our way.

CHAPTER xxIII.
I COULD not pass further on ~until I had seen my
husband's grave. It delayed me some weeks, but the
force of a strong will is invincible. I went at even-
ing, during a September storm, for there was such
confusion and fear on every hand that I did not dare
risk an hour in going. Evening settled into darkness
and night, while David and a guide we had with great
difficulty procured, searched, and at last found it. By
the light of their lanterns I read the rough inscription
on the wooden slab:
"- ABERTHNAY, C. S. A.
Died - 1862."
I sent the men back to a house near at hand, while
I stayed and kept one night's watch over that lonely,
almost nameless and never honored grave, over which
had passed and repassed the trampling feet of broken
and routed armies.


A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      259

CHAPTER XXIV.
AT New York I sent the parcel of Gilbert Stuart's
letters which Gertrude had confided to my care, her
engagement ring, and his presents, back to him~ ac-
cording to her instructions, and in such a manner that
he would not be likely to connect the sending of them
with my return.
I say nothing of the feelings with which I took
the cars for home, for glorious old Massachusetts's truly
sacred soil. I dared not thinkwhat changes had come
to that home. Yet there seemed little change around.
Broadway was as crowded, its windows as richly
filled as when I drove down in the carriage with half-
closed curtains with Carl.
Here and there I had met a soldier, and was re-
minded that there was really war in the land. Officers
I saw in abundance, in fresh new uniforms, as if out
for a holiday, and with them often stylishly dressed
ladies looking proud and happy.
It was a glorious day in early autumn, and a
brilliant October sun gilded the old familiar words,

which I think I shall never see without a heart-bound:
"New York anJ Boston Express Line." October has~;
always been called my month, typical of me in my old
days of joy and happiness, and I hailed it as a good
omen that its beautifully blue skies guided me
home.
Do we really, think on days like this I am chron-
icling,-days when all our days seem to have culmi-
nated in one, and all our lives pass in review before us?
Back came the days when Carl and Uncle Tom would
put me in the cars or meet me coming, when Carl's
face would flush, and his eager eyes single me from
the crowd, and joyously look dowii7 their greeting;
over again I lived the alternate joy and pain of our
intercourse,'~my own hardness and his wistful pleading,
and now love or coldness availed him nothing.
Nearer, nearer flew the train, and a~t last the
blessed Massachusetts breeze, the loyal Massachusetts
breeze that no traitor-breath had ever tainted, blew
glad welcome in my Lace. I forgot the widow's cap,
and with all the buoyancy of youth and happiness
bent forward to answer its greeting.' If the calm,~
stolid travellers around me were astonished to see the
stern-seeming widow flush up into animation and ex-
citement, it mattered little to me. Ab! how truly I
felt in the words of one of my favorite poets, Adrien
Rouquette:
"L'air de notrepatrie e.st le soul air vital."


260              AT ANCHOR:

And now the "iron horse" hurried on, rattling over
the well-known bridge, crossing, the narrow river
where I had so often been boating for pond lilies ;
running on with its joyous tidings to the grand old
forests with their fullest splendor of purple and gold,
and brown and scarlet; screaming through* the little
towns, nests of cottages shining now in sunset beauty;
winding around the soft green hills, lighted by flam-
ing autumn berries; dashing through fields thick with
heavily-laden trees of fruit; out again into the sunlit
town, and now slower auid slower, for the end is near.
TheI~e was no carriage with its prancing horses, no
Uncle Tom with his bluff "Well, old lady!" to meet
me as I sprang from the train, and burning with im-
patience turned into the grassy lane, where silence
and solitude walked with me. Silence and solitude
followed me into the narrow street, through the old
brown gate, under the arching elms, up to the vine-
wreathed porch, past the half-open door into the
diamond-%Ioored halL                         /
Like pilgrim, at the shrine I could have kissed the
cold marble; but my joy and impatience hurried me
~n to surprise those who counted me as almost of the
dead. A long loose circular of ~y favorite scarlet
hung in the hail; I wrapped it around me to cover the
black dress, and laid my own sombre wrappings, even
my widow's cap, aside.

CHAPTER XXV.
I Z~w it was probably their hour for tea, and I
hurried into the library separated by glass doors from
the dining-room. At the table, as I could see through.
these doors, were seated three persons. Facing me sat
my Uncle Tom,-my Uncle Tom, with eye-glasses on
before folk! Opposite him was a lady, whom I easily
conjectured to be Kate; between them a young man in
an officer's uniform.
Uncle Tom looked up suddenly;* "Kate," he said,
"there ~ some one in the library."
I sprang into a corner.
"I guess not," answered Kate, turning round.
"I tell you there is, or was,'? he persisted; "I saw
something red by the doors."
"Probably the light througli the curtains,"
Kate answered; "'we are having gorgeous sunsets
now.',
"I move we make a search after tea," the officer
remarked.
"Kate," my uncle said, "what do you do to the


262              AT ANCHOR.                                       A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.     263

tea; it does not taste like tea. I have not had a de-
cent cup of tea since poor Georgie went away."
The glass doors slid back at a touch: "Let me,
uncle," I said, as quietly as if I had not been away a
week.
My uncle sat as if paralyzed, his eyes dilating as
he stared at me.
1~ate, more practical, rushed to me. "Why, Georgie
Vane," she exclaimed," what a way to surprise people!
I feel as if I had seen a ghost, and in my cloak, too!
Are you real?"
~"Georgie!" my uncle said, faintly, in a tone be-
tween an exclamation and an interrogation, " My
Georgie?"
"Yes, uncle," kissing him.
"My own, own Georgie ?-my pet, my darling, my
old lady really?"
"Yes, uncle."
"I can hardly be1iev~ it," interposed Kate; "I am
sure I am as white as w sheet. There never was such
a surprise! How did you get here? If you had sent
us word so we could have had the carriage."
"I could not have kept quiet in a carriage!" I an-
swered.
"It is really you, Georgie?" again asked my uncle.
"As sure as can be," I answered4
"Well, go there and. make me a cup of tea," he
ordered.

"Before I abdicate,", said Kate, "let me introduce
Captain Lewis; my cousin, Mrs. Aberthnay, just from
the land of secesh."
Captain Lewis arose and bowed, but he could not
let down his eyelids.
I made my uncle's tea under a rattling fire of ques-
tions from Kate.
My uncle tasted his tea. "It is Georgie," he said,
and* rising, rang the bell violently.
"Here, all you people!" he cried, as every one in
the house rushed to see what was the matter; "here,
all you people! rejoice and make merry, and kill the
fatted calf, for she that was lost is found."
Every one who had ever seen or heard of "Miss
Georgie," headed by Mrs. Glynn, now gathered around
me, for in five minutes' time I had succeeded in setting
my uncle's usually quiet mansion into a terrific uproar.
Some hurried me up-stairs and pushed me on a lounge;
one unlaced my boots, one pulled down my hair, an-
other disencumbered me of my heavy dress, while
another stood ready to envelop me ia one of my old
wrappers that Mrs Glynn kept as sacredly as relics.
They washed my face and combed my hair as if I had
just been brought in from the dirt, and with a z~eal
not complimentary to Secessia.
As soon as I was considered clean enough I was
permitted to descend to the dining-room, where there
was a scene I shall never remember without laughing


''"''I

264

AT ANcaoR:-

and crying together. While the women were employ-
ed with me, Uncle Tom had not been idle. I had told
Davi4 to wait half an hour at the station, and then
find his way t&amp; the "big brown house with the cupo-
la," which we could see from the railroad depot; for
I wished to make my entrance unattended. His half
hour had been a short one, or he had taken a "short
cut," for very soon my uncle's quick ears had caught
the sound of boots on the gravelled pathway, and
David w
as at once hailed and pressed into my uncle's
service, as the young officer had been. * In order to en-
large the table they had taken off the tea-things, and,
'manlike, piled them in a corner. With another le~if in
the table the cloth proved too short, but they had
concealed, as they supposed, the discrepancy by the
tea-tray; th~y had piled upon the table every article
of fodd to be fbund in 'garret, cellar, kitchen, or or-
chard, and with a consideration natural to him, my
uncle had given David to eat of the leg of a chicken,
but not the usual facilities for disposing of the luxuri-
enS drumstick.
The picture that presented itself to my view as I
reached the door ~f) the dining-room, was a ludicrous
one. My uncle, with his face very red, was pulling
very hard at a stubborn cork, in a bottle of his rarest
wine. Captain Lewis, with coat-sleeves daintily rolled
back, and looking very much disgusted, was trying to
find place for a dish of jelly; an4 David, on a broad

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.

265

grin, with teeth and one hand kept tight hold of the
drum-stick, while with the other hand and one knee he
was upholding a dish of' meat, apparently waiting for
the Captain to find room for it.
One would have imagined all ~Secessia was in a
starving condition; and I, as their representative, was
expected to eat enough for all.
"But, bless his heart!" as Mrs. Glynn privately
inforixied me, "he'd die, master would, if he couldn't
do something for you."
And so I sat down. and was waited on. I refused
not to "make an effort" at every thing he piled upon
my plate.
Kate and the captain sat side by side, and made
low-toned comments; and when, at last, If was consid-
ered to have eaten enough, and we had adjourned to
the parlor for a good talk, Captain Lewis opened his
mouth and spake:
"What do you think of our prosperity, Mrs Ab-
ertlinay? Does it not greatly surprise you? I wish
you could tell your rebel friends of our abundance. A
large number of us are in favor of starving the~n out.
I presume you have seen terrible destitution there?"
And I answered, "You of the  ~orth and they of
the South seem to know about as much of each other
as you~ do of the Kamtschatkans."
"Do you~ mean they ar~ not on the verge of starve~
tion?" said he,

4


266               AT A~oHOR:

"I 4o," said I; "and I mean more. You must
fight them in earnest, in fair and open fight, if you
wish to conquer them."
This was all I ever told of my experience in the
South.
When David had been feasted and lionized in the
kitchen, I saw him to give him some orders.
"Dis berry grand place," he ~volunteered; "dey's
berry proud to hab you, Missus. Wish Massa Carl
could see how berry glad dey is!"

I

CHAPTER xxvI.
.A~rn so I was home again,-home in all the dear
old places, and scarcely able to realize such tempests
of sorrow had swept over me, except, perhaps, by the
calm they had left.
Nearly all our young gentlemen friends with whom
we had been boating, ridingpicnicing, and dancing,
were off to the war; many had been killed, some were
maimed tbr life; scarcely a dwelling in the land that
had not been under the shadow of death. N"ot a
dwelling in the land, thought I, but has hopes to have
a flag, or sword, or musket to show when this war
shall bea page in history.
Gilbert Stuart, Kate said, had been among the
first to leave. He had gone first as a private in The
old Sixth,-the immortal Sixth, whose blood stands re
cored against the city of Baltimore,-a record which
tears and blood such as no city~ has yet shed, can ever
wholly wipe away. i Gilbert was an officer now, Kate
thought, though she knew but little of him lately.
Others, mere boys when I was married,~we~e EliStUl-


288              AT ANCHOR:                                         A STORY 0]? OUR CIVIL WAR.     269

guish~d officers now; and young girls then, like me,
were widows now.
Crowds besieged me, for I was a wonder. I had
come from Richmond; I knew all about the rebel
army and all about the rebel politics. I was pestered
with questions, but I told nothing. What right had
I to tell? The South had trusted me; and I could
not betray the trust. They hinted that I seemed half
secessionist, lut in time they found that I was stronger
Union than many of them.
Many weeks passed and stretched away into
months. I had become quietly domesticated at home
again, wondering sometimes what had become of Mr.
Stuart. Had he died in the prison hospital, or escaped
death that time 'to meet it on some battlefield? Who
could 'tell me? I had thought I should hear from
him after his reception of his le1~ters, for1 Gertrude had
requested him to give the ring to me, if not fr6m him-
self as from her; and, if alive, he had ample time to
have heard of my return from the South, for it had
been talked of far and wide.
Perhaps he did not think me Worthy .of the ring
now. Something of the same* spirit which had moved
Gertrude, when she said, "I meant he should love mC
and ~uI~r for me some time," arose in my heart.'
One night a gentleman did call to see me, and in
the ~self~saine room where I had so often dressed to
meet bium. I re~d his ear4,

The Captain's unifi~rm to which he hal now tisen,'
became him well; manly, and stately, and ~stern he.
was now,---a man whose voice might make regiments
start and tremble, if raised in command, and, if low-
ered to tones of sweet persuasion, might win the
hardest heart.
Haughty, stern, and impatient now, where he had
before been easy tempered and too patient, I won~
dered had Gertrude or I, or neither of us, the most to
do with this change.
"I learned only a few days ago that you' were
'here," he' said, in rich but rather ceremonious tones:
"I have been home on sick leave; home now means
New York; my parents are I ~but my 'sister is
married and living here. I am glad to see you safely
in your old home. It will be to remain until the war
is over, I trust ?"
"I expect it to) be my home for the rest of my llii~,"
I answered; "I have left many pleasant friends be-
hind; but I do believe the time is not far distant when
there will be as free communication between us as
there was formerly.
"I, to6, found friends in the South, and in the day
of my forest 'need. I was wounded and taken pris~
oner'; but either tlirough a mistake, or the charity of'
a Southern lady, was taken to hei~ house and cared for
as if I had been the favorite son. of the, house. If I
live until this war is over, I shall endeavor' to find


2               AT A~WHOZ~:

andthank her for her hospitality, her more thanhospi-
tality."
"Was that in Richmond?" I asked, rest rained by
his distant manner from saying more.
"Yes, and at~ the very time when Richmond was
in its greatest panic. it was a fortunate thing for me;'
for Union prisoners, men of health and vigor, are con-
stantly dying under the Won hand of their captors,
and I could not have hoped for any care in the prison."
"Yet they try to give it?"
"Officers do,~ gentlemen are gentlemen all the
world over,-and a being with a spark of manhood,
courtesy, or of courage, would scorn to taunt a cap-
tive, and would always be tender to a wounded sol-
dier. I cannot say as much for the ladies."
"These things must be hard to bear?"
"The are terrible. To~hear their taunts and
sneers, and feel your blood boiling, and not be able to
strike or answer one word, because they are wo-
men!"
"Don't speak of it," I saidl; "I cannot forgive
them, but I would like to forget it."
"I very seldom speak of it," he returned;~ "for
the sake of that one noble woman who acted the
Good Samaritan to me, I have been, as far as regard
for truth would permit, their champion."
"Gallantry and gratitude must have a hard task
to raise you to that point," I answered.

I

A S~EORY. OP OUR CIYIL WAR.         2~71
Our. constrained conversation now gave place to
an embarrassed silence, and 1~o relieve it he asked me
if I still sang.
"More than ever," I said; "musio is my only ex-
pression; sometimes, if' we have n~t expression, we
'must die.
"I have not attempted," he replied; "I feel how
useless the attempt to' say to you how much I syin-
pathize
"Do not," I answered. "Nothing~ can be said.
What would you wish me to sing for you?"'
"One of your own songs. You know I always
liked them the best."
"Did you? I had forgotten."
And That was the time I told a lie.
"I have about given up song-making," I added;
"I wish I had a stirring war-song for you, but I have
not; and as I cannot improvise I must give you so~ie-
thing else. This is . my latest; written when Yankee
indifference one day roused my ire," and I sang:
"Where, oh where, are the brave knights gone-
The loyal and the grand-
Who drove the cowards, Guilt and Wrong,
Through all their storied land?
Where, oh where, are the brave knights fled-
The ioyai and the true-
Whose shaft; by Mar~ or Cupid sped,
Ne'er f~ilsely aimed or flew?


"272                  AT A~CflOR:

273

"Where, oh where, are the brave knights now,
With their fond love of right,
Who never failed the needed blow
To punish wicked might?
Where, oh where, do the young knights rest I
Who galloped far and wide,
With flashing eyes and dauntless breast,
To fight at Honor's side?"

"There's more of it, an interminable string of
verses. Do you want more?"
"Oh, decidedly! I am curious to know how~you
get along without your knights, if only echo answers
~kere, and what you will do with them if found."
"You shall hear:
"Now here we see the open lists,
And Treason talks aloud,
And strikes with lance and clenched fists
The shield of Truth so 'proud.
And Liberty, with pale, thin hands
Chained o'er her aching breast,
All helpless at his mercy stands,
Claimed as his slave and jest!"
"I trust," he said very gravely,~" your last word
is not intended as a disrespectful allusion to the very~
witty Father of his Country?"
"I assure you not," I replied. "It was for the
rhyme.".
I am doubtful yet," he said; "but perhaps 'your
next verses wiU redeem the unlucky word."

/

"But what," I asked, "will redeem the fact?"
"That is disrespectful to my commander-in-chief.
Is not this a free cotintry, and shall he not have his
little jokes?"
"I submit," I answered; "but thftt is quite enough
of my song.~~
* "Yot by any means," he answered; "it does not
give it a finish."
"Oh well, one more; one of many:
"Oh! that as in days past and gone,
Pressing full deep the spur,
Gallantly would come dashing on
Some knight to rescue her.
But give us blood and grief and tears,
Through our slumbering land,
T~ we have roused from other years
The brave old knightly band."
"You will join it, won't you, Mr. Stuart?"
"The 'brave old knightly band,' I wish I could."
'KNo knight ever fought in a better cause," I an-
swered; "for the cause of country, government, and
humanity, is the cause of God."
"God help it 1" he answered; "it seems a hard
fight, sometimes."
"You go back to it soon?"
"In a day or two; perhaps~ to-morrow. I can'
hardly hope to see' you again, yet I am loth to say
good-bye."
12*

'I

A STORY OF' OUR CIVIL WAR.


274                   AT .~ ~OHo1~:

"And I,-4t i~ hard to see the sturdiest private in
the street, trudging oft' to the war with his knapsa~~k
on his back, and somebody's good-bye in his ears."
"i suppose you pray for our soldiers?"
"Ido, indeed; what woman does not?"
"Then you will pray for me? Good-bye."
He held my hand an instant, and looked down
into my eyes.
I felt myself coloring, but I drew away my hand
instantly.
He said nothing of Gertrude's. ring, but every tone
'of his voice, constrained though it was, told me he
knew he was free.

CHAPTER XXVII.
M~ life was a weary one; but I need not tell you
that. You see yourself it had been shattered, and
had not an interest to bind it again together. I could
not settle down to quiet charities, to little patriotic
sacrifices; I could not busy myself reading or study-
ing, for.to what end should I study? My life had, in-
deed, been "broken at the fountain," broken when it
was so young, so hopeful, it seemed to itself hardly to
have sprung into being.
Kate, on the contrary, was full of animation; she
was president of half a dozen benevolent institutions,
and yet had always time to spare 'for amusement.
Captain Lewis was now resting under the shadow of
her wings; and his 'very evident fear of her struck
me very comically. It made one little change in my.
sad life, watching the progress of this little comedy,
pretty sure to end, as comedies should, in speedy mar-
riage.         4
"Do you know that Captain Lewis, the odious
man, is positively going off to-morrow?" Kate said to

I


2~8              AT A~?GHOI~                                          A STORY OF OPR CIVIL WAR.       2V7

me the evening after, Gilbert's visit. "It is just too
aggravating for any thing in this world, just as we
were getting on so nicely! I am going to Mrs. Wil-
cox's tonight, a sort of God-speed party to ~he officers
here;-that is, if I ever get dressed. Mrs. Martin has
been holding me, after the ix~anner of the Ancient
Mariner, until my patience is quite exhausted. Will
you help me ?~.~~do dress my hair for me; I look like a
been th
ditYerent person. after I have rough your hands.
Will you ?---that is- a darling. Here!', She threw me
a wrapper. "Hurry now, and ~do me up pretty."
"Captain Lewis is not half good enough for you,"
I said, taking down her hair.
- "1~ don't suppose he is," she answered; "we are
not expected to marry men half good enough for us.
I expect to marry because I don't want to be an old
maid, and because I want a home of my. own. I shall
be quite contented if my~ husband hasn't any very
serious faults, and for the rest I mean to educate him
up t~ me."
"But you know, Kate, this home is as* much yours
as: mine; more* yours, for my lamp of life has gone
&amp;ut, and I want only a dark corner; the rest is all
yours.
"Oh! I know you and Uniile Vane, are kindness it-
self, but no wom~n likes to sit at the side of any man's
table. How. natural, you look in that cashmere. I
never saw any woman but you who looked well ~in

bright colors. I expect to have a lovely time to-night.
I am just as Loud of good times as I was ten years
ago. What times we ~tsed to have !~ Do you remem-
ber Emma Lewis, Mary Allen, Florence Graham, and
the rest? Do you remember the summer they were
here, just before Mr. Aberl;hnay went away? I think
that was about the most delightful summer we ever
had. I did like Mr. Aberthnay so much ~ I had a
splendid talk with him once. Shall I tell you about
it?"
"Yes, do."
"It was just before he went away. Florence~ you
know, was just wild about him, and, it seems, she told
him you had told her you were engaged to Mr. Stuart
Gilbert, you know,-or what amounted to the same
thing. He let it out to me, or, at least, I drew it out
of h~,for I knew he was loving you beyond all
bounds. I did think then that you liked' him, and I
was, myself; half in love with Gilbert Stuart,-just a
girl's fancy, you know; and so I up and down denied
it, and just 19t him see what Florence was up to; then
we talked about you. He said he knew you were not
happy, and he asked me to be especially. kind to you;
and if any thing happened to you, to write and let him
know, without your knowledge; he did care so much
for you!"
"Did you ever write him ?"
"so, of course not, what need?"

277

210 .


2~8              AT ANCHOR.                                         A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      2'19

"Sure enough, what need?"
"I think I was never so happy in my life when. I
heard you were engaged to him. I dou't think any
man ever loved a woman as much as he did you, even
then. Do you know, he actually made me promise not
to tell you; he' was sure you did not care for him, and
said it would only be additional pain to you to know
about it."
"Poor Carl !"
"There was never a man like him. No one can
wonder, Georgie, that your life seems broken. But do
not let us talk about it., I like to look up in the glass
and see you look like old times; and now that your
l~air is tumbling down you are my Georgie of ten
years ago. Do you kn~w, Uncle Tom has never got
over that surprise yet. Every 'little while he says to
me, 'Wasn't it a surprise, Kate ?-just as if she hadn't
been a week away! But I'll be even with her,-i'll
be even with her."'.
"Uncle ought to be home sQon." He was in New
York. "We two women are not much of a house.
hold,"
"Not much. Do you know alout David?"
"No;' what?"
"lie, is going down to the army as officer's ser-
~vant, if you will let him; he expects to send y~u his
wages! You can't beat freedom into that that 'child's'
bead. But you will have to braid faster than that if

I

you expect to get through to-night. It looks well,
doesn't it? I wi~h I had some flowers.'
"My camelia is in bloom; you are a good girl and
you shall have it. What is its motto?"
"I don't know; why?"
"I suppose it will end in Captain Lewis's button-
hole."
"Ar'n't you ~
"I will go down and see what I can find inthe
conservatory," I said; "I suppose I shall not meet
any one.~~
I pushed my hair out of the way, and the old habit
sent it back from my face as lused to wear it. It startled
me to see it rippling so naturally into its old folds, and
sparkling all over with smiles at its release. I wound
it in a hasty coil, and hurried down stair~ to get the
Lowers in the little conservatory beyond the parlor.
Something,-the change of dress, perhaps, or the back-
ward rolls of my hair,-reminded me of that other
flight down the same long staircase; something,-the
same angels that attended me then, perhaps,-seemed
to pronaise better days to come, peace and that soul-
comfbrt and calm which is the crown sooner or later
given of all grief.
I pushed open the pt~rlor door, and there, 'leaning
against my piano, stood Gilbert Stuart awaiting me.
"I am losing my senses," I said to myself; "or is
all this a dream? and am I Georgie Vane, just called

278

279

AT Arcaon. .


A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.      281

280              AT AIW1~OR

from the dressing-room? and are the girls still there?
for surely he is here."
I held out my hands; I hardly know if in welcome
or to 'push away~ that figure. They 'were closely
grasped, and a voice cried, "Georgie! ~eorgie! "-
that voice that could 'inspire or terrify whole regi-
ments, and would melt the hardest heart.
"Georgie! Georgie!"
"Is this real?" I asked, like one in a maze; "is to~
night that other night when I met you here?"
"It is not that other night," he answered; "that
was a night that I have expiated by long, long years
of bitter pain. I fell once from my strength, and
faith; and honor."
"Yes, I' know," I said, drawing back a little; "she
told. me."
"She told you, too, that I was free?"
"She told me."
"Oh! if she could have told you how I fought
against her influence,~how bitterly I have repented
the folly that bound me to her, and put that gulf be.
tween us, between you~ and me, Georgie. I cannot
tell you that I love ~rou; I have told' her that; and
words that any other woman has heard, are not words
to say to you. You know what I would say to you;
what burned on my lips la~st night, but which your
constrained, manner and son~bre dress forbade me' to
say. Georgie, give me the words I lack; tell me in'

what manner I may speak to you of the love that has
been m3r 'life, my joy, and my agony for years, and
years, and years."
"Yes, I know," I said.
"You know; it is only a heart like yours that can
know."
"Let me think," I said.
"~To, no, donut think; I have waited for this day,
-waited when there was no hope that it gould ever
come. Once I came here to implore you, on my knees,
to forgive me,-to wait, to let me explain; to give me
a word that would make me strong enough to burst
my bonds, were they ten times as binding. I have
waited; I can wait no longer; you risked your life for
me in Charleston; you risked still more for me in
Richmond. Yes, I know; Kate told me where you
lived there: it was easy guessing then; but I want
more. Georgie, I must hear those words, those, blessed
words: will you not speak? Oh! I deserve forgive-
ness since I alone have suffered."
~' You-alone-suffei~ed?"
"I alone,-mine the fault, mine 'the expiation.
Have I not expiated it? Oh! that for one hour it were
given to me to speak as I would speak,-for one hour
that I could find words to tell what thoughts have
been .mine when death was on every side, and cut
down men like grass, and shunned my prayers, laugh-
ed at my entreaties, and passed me by, when I so

U


282               AT A~~OHOR~                                          A STORY .01~' OUR CIVIL WAR.     283

longed for him 1-but for one hour that I could find
expressIon for that self~reproach; greater than any
rage, which has had triple revenge on me for my sin!
Georgie, speak one word to me, and I shall forget all
my past misery."
"I do not know what I ought to say."
"Do not mar this blessed day with doubts ~nd
fears. You have had your sorrows,--mine no words
can tell. Let us join hands to-night, and sorrow will
be forgotten forevermore. I dare not say what I will
strive to be to you. I fear not to promise any thing,
for whatever you would wish me to bei~hat your wish
will make me. If you will but say the word, Georgie,
you stretch before my feet a life of joy, and good,
and glory; there is no path I could not tread if that
path led to you. There is nothing I might not be, if
you willed me so to be. Will you throw away my
life? Will you throw away my future, and trample
upon my past.? I hold all that I am, or hope to be, or
aspire to do, in my hand; one word decides it."
"I implore you, spare me."
"I will not spare you. This thing shall be. Is
my life nothing ?-is my soul nothing, my will not to
be counted? I will never let y~bu rest. I will follow
you night and day. I will love you till love becomes
madness; and while there is breath within me I will
breathe for you, and raise my voice in suplieations.
You are drawing farther away? I frighten you?

Darling, darling Georgie, whom I love with such love
as man never gave before, speak to me as I would
have you speak, and you shall never again hear my
voice but in tenderest tones,-never hear a word from
me but of unalterable devotion; but, Georgie, you
must speak that word. What would you say if I
gave way at the first fire of the enemy? Shall I give
up now, when I fight for more than life, or land, or
government ?-when I fight for heaven here and
heaven hereafter. Wilt you speak, Georgie?"
"I loved you once, I know, with a love strong as
your own. You threw aside that love."
"I did, I did; for one hour I was another man. I
threw away a pearl beyond price; but myself again,
I #11 have back that pearl. I will seek it early and
late; nor will I rest until it is mine. lNo, Georgie, I
will yield,-I will go out into pain and utter deso-
lation, if you say so. I have pained you enough.
If I can control myself I will plead no longer; just as
we stand fronting the battle-line, waiting victory or
death, I will try to stand."
He folded h{s arms and stood still; he was pale as
death itself and it seemed as if every nerve was
strained to preserve the silence and outward calm he
had promised. At my feet lay the love I had worn
out half my soul lQnging for; yet, now that it was
mine, IL was slow to take it. I knew not what answer
td make; my soul was stirred and surged tumultuously

I


284              AT A~WHOR;                                      A STORY Q~' OUR CIVIL WAR.     285

within' m~. "Pray God give me a sign," was my
only d~tinot thought. .1 looked to him, wondering if'
I wQUld 'dare lay my hand on the great waves .of his
heart, and say "Be still !" He watched me; and see-
ing that my lips stammered, he was satisfied. With
one long breath of relief; he came slowly toward me.
"My God! this is joy!" he said, and would have
put on my hand Gertrude's ring, and bent as if to kiss
me. God had given me the ~ign,-all was clear enough
then. "No," I said, "I am married. I am Canton Ab-
erthnay's- wif~i~ in lif~ and in death. Dare not touoh me.
I see it now. The grave does not break the. marriage
vow. I would not dare meet him in heaven if I listened
to one word more from you. Do you hear? You
speak, if you speak at all, to ,a married woman,-.no
more to Georgie Vane."
iTh staggered back.
"Many sins have f committed," I said; "but I
shall -not add -this one. From my heart I pity you.
* God may perhaps forgive me that I' let it come to this.
Carl may pardon that I have heard words his' wife
should not hear. Will you forgive me for the pain to
- you?"
"I will .not," he repeated; "I will never forgive
you.
".You shall forgive me, Gilbert Stuart; 'you shall
pray me 'for forgiveness! Do you remember for how
many years you followed my every step, and wound

yourself into my every thought?~, Do you remember
how freely, how trustfully, how unaskingly I poured
out my love for you, and you took it? Do you re-
member when I flew down 'those stairs to meet you,
with my heart ,and soul all yours, that you took me
by the hand, and in cold blood stabbed me to the
heart? Do you remember how you folloWed me,
wounded, bleeding as I was, and widened and deepened
- my wounds? Do you remember that you plunged
the iron into my soul to grind down my life and his-'
my noble husband's? Do you ~think these things
weigh with me? Their bitterness has passed. In one
moment I see the folly and wrong of a life that owes
you nothing now. That one moment's revelation is
worth-all that you have made me suffer.
'The flash that lighteth up a valley amid the dark midnight of a
storm,
Coineth the mind with that scene sharper than fifty summers.'
I thank you for that flash, Gilbert Stuart, for it gives
me back my husband's love; it gives mine' to him;
it gives me his memory, and the hope that one day I
may be. worthy to meet him in perfect love and perfect
understanding." ' -
- "I only bid&amp; my time," h'e said, turning to the door.
"You will never speak of love to me again," I
said. "You dare not. And now, good-night."
"I believe that you love me," he said; "aud this
farewell is not final."

284

AT Alicuou:

285


286              AT ANCHOR.

"iIi'inal or not matters little to me," I answered.
"But this does matter, that you should know that I do
not love you. It is true that the belief that I loved
you grew with my growth, and became almost a part
of me. The force of habit is great with all; it was like
iron chains on me; when I met you at intervals, you
pieced and strengthened the links that were wearing
away. That I thought I loved you was a burden upon
me under which another, a better and higher love, I
can see now, was living and struggling to the light.
A ~ thank God that to-night that burden is thrown aside,
and that love is free, and I am free. I thank God that
the memory of my husband's virtue, and the hope that
he may claim me in heaven, are stronger and dearer
than any love, pride, or fame this world can offer. I
thank him that my storm-tossed life is at last at anchor.
My Eeart, with all its joy, aches for you; but I believe
you will live to smile a painless smile upc~n to-night
and on me."
"There~ no anchor for me," he replied bitterly,
turning to go; "for the rest of my life I drift."

CHAPTER XXVIL
As Gilbert reached the door my Uncle Tom met
and arrested him.
"No one here?" exclaimed my uncle. "This is
polite treatment. Oh, there is Georgie. Well, young
lady, what has happened now? Looks quite like her-
self; doesn't she, Stuart? Come back, come back,~my
dear fellow; no running off like that. I have just this
moment made my appearance ~after a week's absence.
I deserve a warmer welcome. Mrs. Glynn's eyes
promised something better. Come in, Stuart. How
well you look, Madam! 'Just stay that way, if you
please. All the paraphernalia of mourning shuts you
up from me, so that I hardly know my Georgie. We
shall ha'~e her blithe as a lark, now she is honib again~
shan't we, Stuart? And then, if Major Aberthnay
turns out alive and commander-in-chief; he will still
find a beauty for his wife."
"How can you jest on that, uncle?" I said. Be-
fore he could answer, there was a terrific rustle of silk,

I

I

I


A STORY Oh' OUR CIVIL WAR.    289

288                AT A1~CliOR:

and KMe and Captain Lewis appeared at the door
through which Mr. Stuart was trying to escape.
"You are a great flower-girl," Kate exclaimed,
standing in the doorway.
"It is too bad," I answered, "but not~ too late."
"Thank you," she returned; "I have plenty now.
How do you do, Uncle Vane?"
"I am very well I thank you, Aunt Kate. Where
are you going without my mighty permission? You
will just please to wait for supper, you and Captain
Lewis. I am going to have something good for sup-
- per.~~
"Can you wait?" Kate asked the captain.
"Can he wait!" echoed Uncle Tom. "Will you
~wait for su~er? Oh, what a question to~ask an army
officer!".
Kizte made a comical face, which, however did not
suit her as well as the same contortions did when she
was a few years younger. Kate had grown very fair and
stately in the few years. past. The dresses that looked
cumbrous upon her at eighteen, now swept gracefully
around her, and ,~uited her face that had grown wo-
manly, resolute, and self-confident. You- may imagine
* her standing in the doorway, in her favorite russet-
brown silk, rich and heavy; her long, sweeping white
cloak; Ilowers that Captain Lewis had brought, in
her. hair and in her dress, and a magnificent bouquet
in her hand. I don't know that Gilbert was struck

with her beauty, but I think he noticed the amplitude
of her skirts that effectually cut off his retreat, as she
stood there with Captain Lewis, not over-pleased at
the detention.
"I give ~ou ten minutes to dress," Uncle Tom said
to me. "Don't change that dress."
I left the parlor by a door that led into our sitting-
room. Some one spoke; there was a figure there; CarPs,
or his spirit.
"I do not think," I said, as soon as I could coin-
mand my voice, "that any evil thing would be per~
emitted to take your form, my husband. It seems a fit
ending to the tumult of to-night that your spirit should
come, not to reproach me, surely, but to let me say
that, at last, I am yours,-all, all yours,-and that I
live to meet you in heaven."
"Do knot be afraid, Georgie," the figure said, ap-
proaching me. "I am not a spirit; I am your real,
living husband, if you will own me. These are no
spirit arms that hold you, darling."
"My Carl! I am surely dreaming, or my senses
have given way; but it is a delirium so sweet Iwould
never be sane again! Yes, darling Carl, hold me
tighter !-~peak fast, faster, that I may know. Do not
speak, for fear it may Rot be you. This is too much
joy for reality. I loved you all that time, hut I was
not sure I did. I love you now so much that if ~
awake from this dream I shall die."
18

&amp;


290              AT ANCHOR:
"You. shalL not awake, Ge6rgie, darling, pet
Georgie. It is reality at last. You know ho~ often
these false reports of death in battle come. I did
nothing to contradict that of mine, as I shall tell you
by and by. Do you question still, my own, own
wife? To think this joy was waiting for me! This
love ready for me'! It is I who seem to dream!"
"Keep talking, Carl, for then it seems as if it
might be. Worse than any death or desolation it
would be if you should slip from my arms now. Oh!
a thousand times I have clung to'you as now; a thou-
sand times your kisses have rained on me as now; and
in stronger words than I can speak I have told you of
the bitter mistake I made, implored your forgiveness,
and' felt myself forgiven as you forgive me now, dar-
Jiug; and with your words yet in my ears, I have open-
ed my eyes, and you were not there. Can.. it be so
now? "'
"No, pet,-no, no; this is no dream for either of
us! Joy, joy, life,' reality, are with us as they never
were before! Exultation and joy, for I live and you
love me!"
"And you-I have not lost your-
"Hush! hush! Never, darling, waking or dream-
ing, my Georgie, dare to question the love that is
yours; that the grave cannot tak0 away, that all life
lives to prove and to increase!. Are you satisfied yet
tbat I am I?"

A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.               ~91
"I am satisfied that if this is a dream that I shall
not live if I awake; and so I believe."
"The strangest thing," I said, when, long after-
wards, I found more rational 'thoughts, "is that the
first surprise over, it does not seem strange to have
you here.~ How often have I caught myself starting
at the sound of a voice, or even the ringing of the
door-bell! How often has n~y heart bounded at a face
or figure in a crowd or in the street, and then sunk
back in sickening knowledge that you were counted
dead. I would tell myself of that, and yet,-.--Tenny-
son has the same thQught in one of the most beautiful
parts of his lh .Zlfemoriam. 'I used to think I should
not be surprised to meet you anywhere, and, as Ten-
nyson says:
"'And if along with these should come
The man I held as half divine;
Should strike'a sudden hand in mine
And ask a thousand things of home;
"'And I should tell him all my pain,
*           And how my life had drooped of late,
And he would sorrow o'er my state,
And marvel what possessed my brain;
"'And I perceive no touch of change,
No hint bf death in all his frame,
But found him all in allthe same,
[should not feel it to be stri~."7


292

AT AINCHoR:i

"And yet, my darling Georgie, the struggle be-
tween your soul's recognition. of' the truth andl your
fears to trust its voice, not an hour ago, almost fright-
ened me, and I trembled lest at the very moment I
had found not only my Georgie but my Georgie's
heart, I had lost both. I was greatly against the
surprise; but Mr. Vane had set his heart on doing it
just so, and was inxorable. I cannot tell yow how I
suffered as, absolutely forbidden to seek you, I waited
for you to come. I listened, I heard all their voices,
I waited, I strained my ears, I ached to hear yours;,
but you did not-aI know you did not-speak, I could
not have lost the faintest sound of your voice, until
after your uncle spoke of me. Then, when I did hear
it, I seemed paralyzed with mingled emotions. Had
you 'been one moment later I should have recovered,
and, uiable longer to wait, gone to you. -You looked
like a spirit as you came in, Georgie."
"Well I might, for I had come from the crowning
battle of a ten -years' war,-a crowning battle that
was a victory. It was the battle of mind over matter,
and mind won the victory."
" What was' the war ?"
"Not now; do not ask me now. Some 'day I shall
have a story to tell you of an old habit that I clung
4o perversely, that I conquered not two hours ago.
There ngI~thing 'new, nmy Carl,-to come between us.
OhES that I @ouj bring back the days in which you

I

I

'1

A $TORY~ OF OUR (CIVIL WARi.

293

plead so hard,that I might give them undying love, as
I do these !"
."No, we will not call them back; they were dear,
blessed days, because they prepared the way for this.
Do you know, Georgie, that for all the~ years your face
was set against mue, for-all the grief I have had -that
it was so; for all my passionate pleadings, and for all
my pain, it seems as if I had always seen you and held
you as I do now, my own loving wife ?"
" Yes, Carl; foi- I think my heart was yours all
that time. It should have been. I know it was.- I
was like a lost spirit when you were gone; there was
no~ rest, no peace, no anchor for me. I tried to think
other things were the cause of my unrest, but they
were not. Oh ! I have~ a long 'story to tell you of my
life after you left. And you,'--when will you tell me
of yours, and of your coming here ?"
" It is a long story, and must be heard and told at
our leisure. Who are in there ?"
"Uncle Tom, Kate, Captain Lewis, and Captain
Stuart."
" Our old friend Gilbert ? I suppose we must go
to them."
"I have to dress. Uncle Tom gave .me ten minutes
to dress. Kate is going to a party after supper, I.
suppose she is inwardly fretting at this delay. I ran
down to the parlor to get her some flowers and was
caught, and have .not had time to dress since. -My
hair is in a great state."


294          AT A!WORo.

"You don't go out of my Bight for anybody or any
thing. Roll up your hair and come. Rebellious al-
ready? I will, be your hair-dresser. It is a long time
since I have seen these bright rolls, Georgie."
"What will you do when they are thin and gray?"
"You know. Wicked Georgie for asking such a
question! N~ow, come; Uncle Tom has told them all,
I suppose?"
"What do you~-call 'all '?"
"The little fact of my existence, which is about the
smallest part of all."
"Perhaps!"
It was evident Uncle Torn had contrived to iiiterest
them in a long ~tory. of the great event, for he was still
talking when we entered the room. Kate sprang for-
ward to meet us, and Gilbert Stuart took advantage
of her movement to make good his escape.
"This," I heard Captain Lewis say to Kate on the
way to supper, "this beats all the houses I ever saw
for surprises. It will be our turn next."
"I owed you one, eli Georgie, didn't I, old lady?"
said Uncle Tom, rubbing his hands. "I am even with
you."
'~Ahead of me, uncle; Ishall never dispute your
success."
"You're welcome home, sir," said Mirs. Glynn, as
we entered the supper-room.
At which we all saluted Carl with a laugh. I think
my Uncle Tom put her up to it.

294

CHAPTER XXVIII.
" Tow," I said, when. Kate and the captain had
eaten their supper and done, "I want your story from
title-page to finis. I suppose we have dragged out
the greater part of it by our questions during the last
half hour, but I want it altogether."
"It isn't possible," cried my Uncle Torn, "that you
are going to tell that story again? It is no less thau
* fifteen and a half times I have heard it already! He
was button-holed, Georgie, at every step m Kew York,
and in 'the cars coming on it was just fearftil.' How is
* it there are always some people everywhere ever
ready with information about everybody, who never
fail to find you out ~under fifty disguises? No-
body: could question for an instant that our young
man there was an officer; that knowledge of itself is
about as much as most men need to .start examina-
tions and cross-examinations."
"Once it was my own fault," said Carl.
"How was that," I asked.
"A young sprig in a ne~w uniform," answered my


298               AT A~TCnOR:                                               A STORY O]3' OUR CIVIL WAR.      29'1

uncle, "who had evidently yet to~hear the first sound
of an enemy's gun, was giving forth his mighty opinions
about the great contest. 'The South couldn't keep it
up much longer,' he said' 'they were a half-starved
set of poor devils at the best; it wasn't any thing to
whip them. As for their leaders, there wasn't an
officer fit to comniand a. regiruen1~ o~' our men among
them.' Our young ATapoleon, I was going to say, but
the name is already appropriated, so I 'will call ~-our
young ~sprig only a hero, was ~s hard upon the aboli-
tionists as upon the secessionists, didn't think the
negroes had any thing to do with the war,---and, you
can guess, the usual rigmarole. I saw that Carl was
blazing; I was only very much amused, and quite
undisturbed by the sledge-hammer of criticism with
which our hero came down ~upon everybody and
every Thing,-Generals, Congressmen, West Point,
and I cannot tell what ~ll. Poor fellow? six months
later how he would blush for hi~ arrogance I 'You
are in the' army, I. should judge,' a gentleman said,
turning around to Carl, 'how do these things please
the soldiers?' Carl had his text, and he came down
with a whole charge."
was~ very sorry for it afterwards," said Carl,
"for the little fellow liked his brief hour of lionizing,
and it wa~oo ba&amp; to interrupt it; but I came North
expecting to find but one mind, one thought, one view
of th~ rebellion, and my enthusiasm surprises ~people

t

296

AT kNC&amp;on:

201

as much as the rustic's unrestrained laughter at old
stage-jokes.~ I am still on. the invalid corps, so excuse
my story, Georgie, if it lacks hair-breadth escapes and
thrilling scenes. I cannot go through the story of the
past six months, although in the simplest words and
merely in outline, without feeling intensely the old
struggles. I am not much at telling stories."
"People generally' make the preface after the tale
is told," I suggested.
." You must know then," Carl continued, "that I
went into the secession movement with the best inten~
tions in the world,~ and with a romantic idea of liberty,
tyrants, and 'down with the fierce oppressor.' As the
movement grew more serious, and nien discussed not
only its expediency but its right, I found myself
* several times knocked in the head by arguments that
left their mark. I was, however, heart 'and soul in the
cause; with all my heart and soul believed it right,
or, perhaps, as we are all human, I should not have so.
* readily promised Georgie, who, you, know, Mr. Vane,
was stout for the Union, that if I ever doubted the
right of the Southern' cause that 'I would give it
up. I am not going to tell you of my battles and
heroic achievements at present; I was asked how
I came here, and it is of~ inward struggles I have
now to speak. 'I went~ off. to~ the war, strong, and
unshaken; .1 shut my eyes, as every' soldier should,
to 'every thing ~~but the right of the ~cause ~h~ch


no bad leadership however much it may injure can
ever make less right. But as I was thrown among
our officers and soldiers, I was forced to see, and to
see with disgust, to how many low and base motives
appeals were made, and how few, how very few were
moved by sterling principle. But there were other
men, earnest like myseW men whose souls had panted
for action through many idle years, and we helped
each other's doubting faith. I do not believe because
others scorned to own to any lack of faith that they did
not also doubt. After awhile it became my place to be
much among the prisoners,-prisoners of both sides.
I met among the Union prisoners, officers and privates,
men of intelligence, culture, understanding, and of
thorough worth; men who fully and clearly saw and
knew'for what they were lighting. They spoke of us
with decision in regard to our political sins,-they
never minced matters about these,-but I scarcely
ever heard one betray any vindictiveness, bitterness,
Or any personal animosity. Considering they fought
well, believed in the war, and intended to carry it
through, and were influenced in their opinions by no
desire for our good will, nor fear of us, I liked their
mildness. One officer, I remember, one day said to
me: 'I ~have been over many battle-fields, and have
everywhere been struck by the truly noble physique
of' your dead; it is hard such' fine fellows must go
down like so much grass, but the cause 6f the' natin

2$8

AT Aronon:

demands it, and you know we light you just as hard
as though .we had not a thousand times rather wel-
come you to our tables in thorough good fellowship.
Are you brothers or barbarians we must light you
just the same, so long as you rebel against our govern-
ment and yours. But we fight ourselves, almost, in
fighting you; we have an older' brother sort of feeling
toward you; we can't judge you quite a's severely as
if you were not a wayward younger brother. You
will never believe how much of affection there is in
our feelings toward you. Men like you, Major, can
understand it, others may call it cowardice, servility,
or some other unworthy name; the fact remains un-
altered.' Our own soldiers always -came back from
the North subdued by their visits to the strongholds
of the nation; no sneers, no contemptuous remarks, no
insulting names for them as they went sullen and
sulky to their prisons. I have known of very many
acts of reali kindness aiid consideration from the Union
guards to their prisoners; sometimes when these lat~
t~r have been tired, worn, sick or wounded, perhaps,
the others have dismounted from their horses and let
their prisoners take their place, they trudging' by on
foot. But mark this-their food, their horses, their
blankets, they might share, or give, but never liberty,'
or an~ acknowledgment that they were not ~ rebeLs'
and as 'rebels' fought and conquered. This is t~e
spirit I like; no ~appeals to selfish motives or ignoble

299

298              AT ANCHOR:                                        A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.    299


passions to fire your northernn heart, but the pure love
of principle; no weak and 'mistaken mercy, but Roman-
like justice. These things I saw, and each in its own
way helped on the work of my conversion.
"I was slightly wounded during the winter,--I
never wrote you of that, Georgie; it was ndt worth
while to worry you about so small an affair. I fell
into the hands of the Sisters of Charity, even under
the care of your old friend Emma Lewis; who had
also,~ she told me~ taken care of Captain Belton, who
regards himself as one of your converts. He proved
himself a valuable acquisition to the Union army."
"He was, killed, poor fellow! on the Peninsula."
"Don't say poor fellow, his death completed a
noble, martyrdike career. Sister Louisa waB very
reticent and demure; I teased and tormented her in
every iit~y I could devise ~o make her talk about the
war, but she was on her guard-it was not for a Sister
of Charity to speak. One day, at last, I roused her.
I talked against the Government; made fun of its
officers' ui~til grace oould stand no more; Sister Louisa
c.o1o~ed and said: 'All the ridicule in the world,~ all
the satire of Junius, cannot make our Governmentless
a~ Government nor your rebellion less a rebellion.' It
was a great deal to have drawn from a Sister of
Charity, but the 61d Adam was strong in Emma even
then. The ice once broken I got her to talk seriously
with me ~ I risked nothing in opening my heart 'to a

300

300.             AT ANG~OR.:                                           A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.

301

recluse. She is a tough little Union woman, and gave
her reasons for her faith with a will, and with never a
waver in her voice. She has grown a splendid wo-~
man, Emma has, and I owe her more than I can say.
After a time I left the hospital and tossed about in
various ways, and worked hard to keep thoughts out
of my head, and to show myself really a soldier. I
kept from thinking moderately well until I was again
wounded in the summer. I did hope I might die then,
and be spared the pain of decision, .which is the pain
always; to act is nothing. I found. it hard to decide;
I could not fight 'against my convictions, and my
promise to Georgie, and it was hard to desert 'the
cause I had been one of the first to embrace. But 'my
convictions and my health would not give way, but
struggled on to strength. I could not die; I was~
forced to decide. I could not stay longer in the house
of the kind Southern people, who, proud to have a*
Southern officer in the house with them, exerted them.'
selves' to the utmost to take care of me, and were,
indeed, mothers and sisters to me; and I got away
from them as soon as I could, resolved if I had to~ live
to make my way to headquarters, resign, and then who
could tell what? I had hardly clearly made. up my
mind in this respect, than I was taken prisoner~ You
can imagine my rage and chagrin. To declare myself
an unbeliever in secession, to give up. my. commission
after' having been a Drisoner, admitted of too many


suggestions against my honor for me to think of it.
In this painful state of mind I was taken into the
4Ynion lines, and into the hands of some officers who
treated me with every attention, care,. and kindness.
I was very much exhausted, so much so that they
soon expressed their fears that I was past recovery. -I
did nothing to undeceive them. ,They forced me to
take a little wine. Every thing seemed in confusion,
but I lay quietly and without motion, while orderlies
came "and went, or gathered around the tent door. I
gathered scraps of their conversation; fortunately it
was a kind that did me good. .The tents were near
together, and as. the evening, grew quieter I could
hear, was foi-ced to. hear the conversation in the next
tent-to the one to which I had been taken. I 'wish I
could repeat to you kind words, high-toned sentiments,
brave energetic thoughts which were thrown in my
way that night.
"For some reason I was carried farther on, or in a
different direction, and, I think, they broke up camp,
or' there was dangerdof an attack, for two men were
left in charge of me, and there was complete silence
around me. A thunder-storm came up, a violent one,
and at every burst of thunder my-guard started, and
muttered something meant, perhaps, for a prayer.
They did their duty by occasionally pouring down my
throat a few drops of some liquor which had been left
for me, and. pouring down their own large quantities

802

I

ar Arcnon -

4
I

302  AT ~Nn~n:A toR O? OUR CIVIL WAR.                                                30

of the same, until, as will sometimes happen, the bottle
showed itself to be empty. One of the men expressed
his convictions that he could find more if he looked in
the right place, and with his bottle under his overcoat
started on the quest, leaving his companion alone
with me. This man, evidently, did not relish a lonely
watch, a dark night, a thunder-storm, a dying rebel,
and no whiskey, and soon moved after his partner.
' Are ye alive?" he said to me before leaving; ' poor
fellow ! I'm loth to lave ye, but IPm afeard somewhat's
happened to Mike, and it's our duty to stand by each
othei but I'll not be long gone.'
*"I made no answer, -of course, and off he went.
The' rascal left his overcoat, into which I put myself,
and, forcing my strength back, I got out of the tent.
I found myself unable to go far, but found a hiding-
place so near at hand that, to speak after the manner
of the Hibernians, it was beyond suspicion. The men
after awhile returned, very angry, very tipsy, and very
much scared. 'I knew the divil would have the -
;ebel,' said one, as they went around looking for me.
'But what would the divil want* of me overcoat.?'
asked the other. 'Maybe the ould gintleman don't
like the climate,' suggested the first. 'Or is afeard
of the draft, maybe,' added the second.2 Talking in
this way they passed me, and aided, perhaps, by a
quantity of bills /I had forgotten purposely, they de.
cided to give up the search, and from them came the

308


~04             AT ANCHOR:                                           A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.    805

testimony, j[ suppose, of my death. I am soi~ry to
have such things to record of TJnion patriots; hut hu-
i~ian nature is' human nature, you know.
"I got to a small hut in the wood, was taken in,
gave the owners some money, laid down on the floor,
and had a raging fever. They took such care as they
could of me, and as I was not destined to die, I lived.
When I was able to stir I got back to the South. No
one wondered that I resigned, for I was completely
smashed up. I worked along slowly, very slowly in-
deed. You were gone to the North I supposed. I
m~ade no inquiries lest I should interfere with your
plans. I made arrangements to follow you; slow ar-
rangements, for I was laid up every few days. I got
through the lines of both armies; it would be impru-
dent, as the i~ewspapers say, to give the details.
"Resting at New York I was reoogiiized in my
olckni capacity as a Southern officer, a muss was made,
and I was arrested. No one would listen to me; time
and my money were wearing away; but believing
every day must be the last, I forbore any steps for my
release or assistance. However, I couldn't expect any
thing better, and tried to wait, with resignation.
Geo;rgie knows ,why I did not send word to her, and
was even half doubtful, sometimes, of how she would
receive me. In Tdu~ time I was released, without any
questions on either side, and th*en was I mad! If I
were not a spy they had no right to arrest me; if I

11

were a spy they had no right to free me; and they
knew no more of me on the day they opened my
prison doors thaxi on the day they first closed them
between me and liberty. I went to Washington; I
lost time, strength, money, and temper, but gained
no satisfaction nor notice, except that a scamp of an
editor got hold of my name, and made a paragraph
about me. Said paragraph came to the notice of
somebody who knew Mr. Vane; who, meeting Mr.
Vane one day, questioned him of me. Exclamations
and explanations 'followed. Mr. Vane took his cane
and started after me. He came in good time; he
owed you a surprise, he said. I make no attempt to
tell you all he did for me; but we journeyed together,
and here I am. These are but the hurried outlines of
my history; if I live I shall give yon incidents enough
to fill them up to a three-volumed novel. But this
must do for to-night. You know, Goergie, I have a
story to hear."
"Yes, Carl, and you shall hear it, although I have
told you nearly all. I told 'you before that I visited
a grave supposed to be yours. Oh, what a night it
was! You must have that name changed."
"No, I mean to leave it. They carried it rather
far, but it is true in one sense. Blank A1~ert1~nay,
C. S. A., i8 dead and buried. There is poetic and.
proper justice in that inscription. A leader, as he was
proud to be'in this great contest; one of those who set

a

af


306               AT A~TO1IOR:                                            A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.        30'?

this terrible ball of battle rolling, he owed his grave
to his enemies; and of him remains only a mutilated
name, and three letters that tell the history of his life
and his death, hi~ sin and his shame. How like the
prophetic wish of your favorite poet:
'Arn~,'iqt*e, 4 jxetrie / Am&amp;ique, 6 ma mare /
,S~'il est un do tesj'its asses ldcke et vulgare,
Pour t'entendre Q*lfonser etyour to renier,
Seu4 sans pleurs, sans regrets, qu'il meure tout enter!
Quo son norn, efac6 despaqes do l'A~sto2re,
~ do tout ceur et do toute m~moire,
Entoure~ du lineetd d'uu ~tornel ou1~li,
.Dans Us nuit du tom~eau descend ensevdi."'
ADRIEN ROUQURTTE.
"And now," said my Uncle Tom, "what is to be
the next move?"
"As soon as I am strong enough I am going into
your army, and repair as well as I can some of the
injury I have done the country."
"And it shall be my part," added my uncle, "to
get your commission. Don't give yourself a moment's
thought on the subject. I will attend to it."
"Commission me no commissions," Carl said; "I
have always had great regard for the good son who
stayed quietly at home, and for whom the fatted calf
was never killed. I hav.e no right to any of the honors
of the land, and1 yet it is an honor to wear the uniform
of theUnited States in any capacity. I shall be grated
ful if I can be allowed to wear it in its humblest man

ner, and shall be glad if I am permitted to take my
chances at the eleventh hour with those who have
borne the heat and burden of the day. Don't cry,
Georgie; I haven't gone yet."
"Half my tears are tears of pride. Xo king ever
laid down his crown, and took up the cowl of a monk
with purer charity, and higher courage than you have
changed the livery of secession for that of govern-
ment. I am proud of you, dear Carl, for I know,
* darling, what it has cost you to do it. God knows,
too."
"It costs much, and yet less than you think. It is
the only thing that I could do. It is not a matter
that admits of question or doubt; it is, indeed, a
* luxury to do a work that is so clearly chalked out. I
think the pains of doubt and indecision are very nearly
the severest pains, and the most difficult to bear of any
in this world."
"I think so too, Carl," I said, "and I think as
well it is a luxury to do a work that is so clearly
marked out as mine."
"Yours!" echoed Uncle Tom, "a woman's work!
What might be the labor of your life?"
"Woman's work has generally no name, but it is
none the less a work, even though it is nameless, or
well loved." -
"I never knew her to do any thing in her life"
my Uncle Tom said to Carl; "she isn't eveu president
of a single benevolent association."

I

[

007

800

AT ANCHOR:


C

808               AT A~CHOR.
"I have something to do, nevertheless," I an
Swerved.
" What can it be?" he asked.
"To love Carl," I answered, and I 1~ave been
doing it ever shoe.
CHAPTER XXIX.
WHAT more can I tell you, ye patient friends,
have followed me through all my faults and f
saf6 to my anchorage? As the painter who r
rented a father's grief by a face covered with a m~
signifying it could not be expressed, would I:
my exceedingly great happiness for you; only
mantle should be of golden texture, and of daz
loveliness.
My husband grew stronger and nobler even
of old, and as soon he could he fulfilled his inte~
of going down as a private. How few who read
lines will need to be told what days of agon
suspense and racking terror followed his depart
Days came and went, and those who loved
kept up the' courage that would sometimes fai
assuring me the days could not be long before th(
would be over, and so they have gone on tellin~
But the day came when my personal terror sand ~
were to have their end.

who
allies
epre~
Lntle,
paint
!the
zling
than
ntion
these
izing
'e.
Line
1,by
war
~ me.           A
[read


310             AT ANCHOR:                                           A TOBY OF OUR CIVIL WAR.    $11

One day I read my husband's name in the paper, a
few more and I was with him.
"My fighting days are over, "he said, mournfully,
"I shall never be fit for service again. It is too soon; I
did hope you would have had a soldier's sword to
show to our children, but a sergeant's uniform and' a
musket are all there is to cover the stain of rebellion."
"It is all wiped out," I said; "there is no stain left.
And now I have back your honor, and I have you, my
darling, never to lose you again, to be hands for you
evermore, my darling Carl. Hush! not a word, I am
your 4yrant henceforth, and oh! what a tyrant I
shall be!~~
A few 'days ago he called me to him. "In your
duty to the country, do not forget your duty to
society, Georgie pet. Read this," he said.
And I read, under the head of" Marriages," in the
'Ikrald:
"Sti~art- l7xne.-On Thursday, at 'the residence
of L. ~'C. Carter, Esq., Gilbert Stuart, Captain
Mass. Vols., to Miss Gertrude Vane, eldest daughter
of G. W. Vane, Brig.-Gen. C. S. A. Richmond papers
please copy."
"It's Stuart and J7~ne, notwithstanding," my hus-
band said.'
"Yes," I answered, "but he has taken a different
manner tf vanity."
"Well," added my husband, "I am glad ~friend

{

Stuart is At Anchor at last. There is anchorage for
all of us if we are only patient and faithfully follow
the light that is within us. Which sentiment, by the
way, being very true, suggestive, and exceedingly
well expressed, will do for the moral of your book."
"I wouldn't end up with a mdral," I replied, "for
any thing in this world. If you and I haven't lived
long enough to prove a warning or an assistance we
had better give up."
"I haven't an idea of such a thing as giving up,"
said Carl, "we are only just beginning to live. I feel
that you and I have not battled so long for nothing,
l5ut that through all 'i~e have been preserved and
strengthened for some thoroughly good work even' in
this world. There is nothing we cannot do if we work
together. I have seen, at the seashore, boats rocking
idly on the waves, day after day, when suddenly I
would see them, sails spread, Ilags flying, and all
hands busy, dashing bravely off to sea. Perhaps they
had been hauled up for repairs, as we are; at any
rate, they sailed none the less swiftly, and were none
the less strong and secure for having lain At Anchor,
at the Master's wilL There's a moral in spite of you,
Georgie."

THE3 END.

'ft


  
             
         
       
   
