
    ----CITATION----
        Leonhart, Rudolph, (1832-). The Wild Rose of the Beaver .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7071
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The wild rose of the beaver 
            
               PRICE 50 CENTS.
TH WILD IK)SE

OF

E BEAVER  'f

BY R. LEONHART, A. M.
Author of" lTononqua, the Pride of4tic Iyando/s," " Do/ores,"
Throu2gyh Blood and Iron," " Tom the Tinker," etc., etc.

TIDIOUTE
(G. A. NEEI).E &amp; COMPANY.
1873.


U UU6LASS' DE -TALROOMS,,
Opera.  House Block,              TIDIODrT ,- Pa.
('111li~1 I1) tistDiv j Ui 011He(d  will)c ( 
811(1 W8 v I~af t e(1 .  li i)('(" i l i tII e1ti
r                 r'
l .                   l:  (  _i  d"  l ( -1} 114  K  I ~ I
=j                           t Itl It '  -
a          \  i \ ( \

T~IIENVILI) ROSE
THE i3ILT 3

1'

K        I         ii  .

,' i

I  ,

M'IN Srk XE 2#

rX1       E.PA.

A1


#t ,  ''  o  "  q
34  41  D

F 1~
/TIlIE

1

y  N,
Iz1

y-1    4

* i  .

U,

BY R. LEQNHART, A. M.
A UTHOR OF " ''ONONQUA, THE PRIDE OF THF WYANDOTS."

f 11

TIDIOUTE.
A. NEEDLE &amp;.COMPANY.
1873.

j
': ;
:':i

i
_                                f{y i
\      .
i

' 41


"       apt                              3'                             '
t                                                                                a
u                                                                           a
d
d      _
.      JFl
.fie  4x       -   3        iY  Sf
C                                   q
4

A

[COPYRIGHT SECURED.]

4_

rt

CII)V 'TER -1.{-t
A VISION.
Ninety years ago ! What a short period in the annals of the world, ai yet-
how fraught with changes for the fair region now'know  to the geogtapher  s
Beavet county. Where'-schools and churches, vihere n is and factories, falms *
and'villages now abound, ninety yars ago dptevein thevestige of a buying
wasto e sen.The river had not been dnmdo-spanned ; the  eious
coal bed had not been tapped,, nor the fertile field:cleared. Indeed, dnrb rand
unbroken forest stretched from one end of the county to 'the other, and inste~d
of the civilized white man,'the dusky Indian, the greedy wolf, the bloodithirs{y
panther, anid the awkward.bear, thinly popdiated its sonibre~hills aid vallyp
Yet it- was by no. means void of be uty only that this beauty in many places
was of a serious, almost austere character. Through the dense foliagoig i
giant trees, and the denser one of its undergrowth , few sun rafs pund their
cheering way, leaving fit haunts fon poisonous serpents and beasts of prey un
derneath ; but where rivers, creeks and runs intercepted the green canopy, the
aspect was cheering enough. True, even here the forest strove for mastery,
sending mighty-tree tops obliquely over the vater, or causing dense bushes to
hang festoon-like into the -clear flood ; but the sun lit up the foliage to the
brightness of burnished gold, and there was always enough of the limpid mir-
ror left'to reflect the Azure of the sky, Ves, the Water courses of the country -
were t -en lbeautiful, more beautiful'tliah now; 'for no ugly darn had as yet di
turbed 1 re ffppling current, or the inipetuous cascades of the rapids. Bridges
and mill dams are practical improvement adapted to facilitate the  intercourse
and serve the purposes of inan, but hardly calculated to'enhance the beauty of
the scene. Methinks I yould gladly give a day of my life for the privilege ot
-spending another on the waters and the banks of the Beaver, river- as it appear-,
ed ninety years ago. I would, however,, hadly fancy meeting the 'dusky savr  l.
age that was then creeping alongdft bushy banks, following the trail of his vi-
tim with unerring certainty, and driving the tomahawk into its skull withqt
the;wariing of a'mdinent. Tlose were perilous tines for thesolitary pale-faee
wanaidrr, and none but men of"nerves; strong sinesx s, acute senses, and great
experience in the use of the rifle an4 the ways of the wilderness, could venture
in-with'ahy prospectof returning
The two men we see wendirngth'eir Way up-ithe left bank of Seaver creek seem
to be of that character. They are evidently backwoodsmen, or rangers, wear

4

THE Will) ROSE OF THE BEAVER

i

;  z
Y
7                            w+
} 9
.T               '
_     i      An
Pf
- yF s           .
f

__...,_    4#t   -,      -"""  '             ,rx ,                '                                 _        -      # tr          '     -    -+'"   3              y  yy              7 41               t  .                                   _  j   /     ,eey ~ g
;._^        ."i          R                       3  .a.3  4t.    ice.    ;  .:   d f       '..ucy.,       r  ""' . .      "j.-.}5... v ,__1,r  - 'K ..x. Y.,. .       °5 '*__...,,._± ~  4"    _                   l    :tY-' a,
s i't-,-     ."ks  .,              'a,     _'  q snV wa      a4         rw[ i'i+A!i"  x i ,              .}3;s   *'~ .a,;x a     ",.-   .=r'ne=           ,f^i            -.°' '+F                    -..i;-"=            i:,3-
W 7-" 7


4                THE WILD ROSE OF THE E4WER.
ing th  parel ot'that, class, which consisted If a hunting frock, Indian leggings'
nd  6I*Eoasins. While the frock of the older and smaller of the ,wo is made of
plain linsey, that ofhis younger companion consists of tanned deer skin, and
makes some pretensions to taste and neatness. His leggins also, are fringed
more profusely, and his whole suit looks as though its owner was thinking a
_.   little about his appearance, or as if it had but lately left the hands of one skilled
in the art of tailoring. Agur cap sat neatly upon a mass of auburn curls, and
the upper lip of the handsome, though sunburnt face, sported a short moustache
in so saucy a manner that the young hunter would hae done-credit to the parked*
of an eatern city. ,On the other hand, however, one need only notice his elas-  I
tiq, =doisoess stepias keef, penetrating glance, that seems-to take in and un-
d 4stnnd the whole surroundings with the rapidity of lightning, and the ease
anc skill with vhich lQ poised the'heady rifle on his left arm, while the right
'hard keeps in the neighborhood of the lock ready for emergencies; we need only
sedftll this to kno . a  nce thaif the youth would grace the city, he is.at home
in the&amp;$rest.
Hissenior is a man of smaller, but very compact build;) one of those persons it
whole strength we are v ery apt to underrate. *They have little flesh, but con-
si4rable muscle and sinew, a bocy which is best qualified by the epithet of
wirf; H   bronzed face has an honest expression and regular features, which  i'
possgs as much comeliness as constant exposure to the weather, several ugly
- scars and the age of fort-five will allow. We guess him to be that old, though
such' fac&amp; as his are by no means tell-tale faces, while his companion can, in
our estimation, scarcely have passed his twenty-third year. The- smaller man,
however, seems not only older in years but also in experience; for he takes the
lead, his companion modestly walking in his footsteps and listening attentively1
to his words, without neglecting to use his own senses at the Same time.
"It is as it is, Bob," the leading man said, in a guarded undertone, "and
your disputin' it can't alter it, nohow; them critters are, to say the least, made
}of tarnation bad stuff. An inch is an inch, and a Delaware hardly better nor
another. { Don't talk to me about your j5oor injured Indian! all they're fit for
is to be shot down, and no mistake."
"That is the general opinion here, Dave, I am well aware; but I cannot help
thinking that the'pase might have been different if the red men had always been
treated right. You can't deny now, that he has not always been dealt with, as
justicee would dictate, can you?"
" Well, I don't khow. I gugss you hint at the land question; but even there 3
"  ain'4treparedto knock under. It ain't meet that them red devils should rove
over sich wild tracts of land when white men apt w'em for better purposes..We
need corn, and wheat anl terbacker, and you never saw the red man thatwould
stoop to 'cultivatin' did you?"
"No, David; but-it strikes me you don't like it much better. I have often,
heard you curse the plough and those that handle it and turn these fine forests'
into fields and meadows. How do you explain this?"

_ '-

Such logic being-irrefutable, the other kept his peace, but could not help smil-
ing, a manifestation wholly innocent, as his comrade marched with his back to-
wad him. It is imipossible to state what~ turn the conversation would have'
taken, for it was interrupted, and that, too, in a manner wh %caused the kwo
frontiersmen to seek the cover of a tree and keep their rifled  dy for immediate
execution. The cause of this alarm was a noise emanating on their right, and .
approaching them with a.recklessness truly'startling four such a precarious time
and place. It sounded like some human being or heavy animal breaking thro'
bushes or other obstacles in the way, with',a total disregard to secresy or safety
and our hunters might have indulged in wondering calculations if the unknown
being had not approached'with such.great rapidity. Five seconds had hardly
elapsed since the first hearing of the noise, when a fine stag made his appear-
ance, and with one tremendous bound, precipitated himself from the steep bank
into the clear water below. It just' rtched to his side, and half walking, half
swimming, the stag, endeavored to gain the opposite shore.4
" What a fine animal," said the young man who had been called Robei# by
his companion.. " Might we not as well kill him, and secure the good grace of
our Indian friends by a savory morsel of venison?"
" No, no, Bob,.don't shoot," the other exhorted. "A fellow never knows, in
such ticklish times, what a bullet in the barrel may be good for. Besides we
are too near their camp nqw to venture on so noisy a demonstration. I woul
rather-but there it goes. It seems we ain't as much to ourselves here as 1
would wish."
" The buck is down," said Robert, "and there comes the lucky hunter :He,
foi- one, don't seem afraid to show himself."
On the other side of the stream the bushes parted and a young Indian made
his appearance. The bank being low he stepped on the gr velly bar, where
the stag was lying, and -in doing so. exposed a figure of much beauty and prom-
ise. I say promise, because he did not seem to be much older than fourteen or
fifteen years of age. Still his conduct foreshadowed already the coming War-
rior; for in walking up to the deer he evinced a grace, dignity and self-pos=; =
sion peculiar to the Indian,_especially when he knows himself the object .of bb
servation. The young hunter had, of course, noticed the pale-faces on the op-
posite bank; but instead of fearing them he seemed to be rather pleased with
their sight. Placing his left foot on the dead stag, he, with his right hand,
made a saluting gesture xihich could be intended for no one but the rngers4
"That boy sees us," whispered Robert.

THE W ID ROSE OF THE BEAVER                  5.
The other' as slightly embarrassed. His case, however, adst ne,
gut is one of the many1 where rights and privileges cannot be proven e +t by
the strength of the owner. The forester argued in that strai
"Well, I don't undertake to explain it," he said; "but I kdolv well -endgh
that white ain't red, and that the white man wants these lands and is goin' to
have them."

Ij
_  71
t  l
I Y
-4rt
Y' /A n   3
"    ry1${I ;
Y   (a

MIIATi lgm ai iu enr"

Tv.r7m

7

- _ri,    t      1                         .+.. ..-.,.=.-.   c         .r, ._   ,"  .,.y             __     "-r         *--   -        'r .'   +st  .r«',sp         -           -                  ,,..             -       -                     z                          _                                           v                                     .wn. {cw" = "
low:

'Al
'
$T

ts  r
4
i
Sir^3
!, ski
gt. r
S YY,
kr
S
r
,t n
ai1 Y
,r


STHE WILD ROSE OF THE DEAVER.d
wovondr," replied the oiher tartly. "we hiin't tried o00ifaiid at hiding
to my knowledge."
Well,,I mearn he beckons us."
S"o it appears. xVel, I suppose he has instructions. 'Tisn't very likely we
could walk into an Injun town without.being noticed, aid here j'ou hke tie
proof of it. That young jackanapes has his orders to watch us, nic aper
about us like a young kid about a ndther koat. Yo6'll see if lie dont.
Do you intend to cross here?"
Yes, we may as well; the Irijun camp is on t'ofier'side, an ilthis  lace is as
easily crossed anotherr"
Perhaps the boy can furnish us with a canoe."
)(es, it would be a pity to spoil our suits by wading the crk," lavid said1
somewhat sarcastically. " Howsumever, we may as well ask him."
Upon this he stepped close to the bank and hailed the Indian, who might
have been sixty yards off.
"Say, youngster," he cried "we want to cross this river, and hate to wet our
breeches; can you perchance accommodate us ivth a canoe?"
The yquth evidently understood him, but before replying he turned his face
towards the bushes behind him, as if expecting guidance from there. If so, his
expectations were evidently realized, for nodding to the strangers he pointed to
a bush at their feet,- which was hanging into the water. They were me accus-
tomed to take hints and read signs. Looking over the 'bank they saw fo tprints
evidently made in the effort'of climbing it.
"Aha, I understand it now," David said to his companion. " Do you-see the
canoe under the bush? One, f their party crossed the river by it'and stirred up
the stag. He cannot be far off I'm sure, and though he is only an Injun, com-
mon politeness requires us to wait. Hark! there he is now."
It was even so. From the copse-wood lining the hill-side a young Indian
warrior at this moment stepped to the open river bank, at a distance of'hardly a
- dozen paces from-the white men. He was older than the boy on the bar, but
hardly as old as the younger ranger. The exercise through which he had gone
f seemed to have called into play all the muscles of'his body, and to have stirred"
him from that reserve which has become the second nature of the red man.
His eye gleamed, a joyous smile lay on his lips, and he seemed to shout to the
boy on the other side. . But no sooner had his eye lit on the strangers an a
change.came over him, almost magical in its effect. The motions of the body
ceased and he became as immovsble as if he had been chiseled out of stone.
-The face lost its excitement under a mask of perfect reserve, and only the eye,
incapable of belying its habitual fire, shone upon the stranger'with an intense-
ness.in which Robert imagined he saw the very essence of hatred. The older
hunter Wow accosted the Indian.
- Good day to you, sir," he said rather roughly, and with no desire to'conceal
the contempt for the red man, which his former remarks have already betrayed

THE WILD ROSE QF THE BEAVER.                  7
to us. "I eckon this is your canoe; we mean to use it for the purpose ofcross-
in' over. If you have the same notion you might as well come along."
Instead of an answer the Indian dcended think and entering the canoe
untied the cord with which it wad fa tened to a (fojectimg root. [folding on to
the bush he looked at the strangers with an inviting gfance, but abstained from
uttering a word.
"LOumb like a fish," David muttered, half to himself, and half-to his compare
ion. "I suppose our lamed Captain at the fort Vould call that mute illoquence#Y
But we may As we,1l embark , without raiism ' ihe eflfow d ader. This'trip  f
fours is ticklish enough without making iunneces ary enemies. Here we are,
Mr. Copperskin,/andi if you'fllet the bush go, I'll giveth'e craft a shove, that'll
send her over, I reckonsy
The"Indii either understood his words or  estdires; for he re liquished his
hold uponthe bushind e' canoe beganto swing round with'the curirnt.
When it stood at nearly right angle with the  bank,"bavid, who had hold on
as yet, avefhe vessel so Vigorous'a  sh vwth hi foot, that it begai to cross
the'stream with great  idity and rated the low western shore with a mo-
mtu sh    o  thtte propelin  power was not yet fully spent. When the
t'rio hadieppe} on the gravel Davn ceimorie turned to tli Indian.
I'judgerom your ways," he said inthe tongue of the Delawares, "that you
know our character and guess. eatuie of or errand."
j  Te Idian nodded an'alliiatnve'.
"Well then if that is the case, jou might as well tell us where your camp is
and inform your clfief of our c6ing. Not that we couldn't ind it ourselves"he
continued with a erisive smile, but a fellowhates to tun)ble in a hornet nest
unawarescand it wouldlast way do no harm, to give your folks a timely warn-
ing. What do you think of my proposal? '
The Indiangraised his hand a'nd pointed to the forest ih their rear. When
they turned to learn his nieanintleir eyes beheld a sight, equally strange and
charming. On the second bank of the river, which rose aboutthree feetovker the
I first,in one of the few apertures orihe leafy seam, that hemmed the water
course for many a mile, stood the figure of a young Indian woman. Now our
rargers'h1dsern nny an Indian wofanold and young, and the sight of such
alone would certainly have created' no wonderment'of theirs, but'the young
maiden standing there was, evidently no common apparition.
As a general thing, beauty, in our sense o(the word, was a rare attribute of
the Indian squaw- of North America. True 'she; in youth,, shared with the
white wqman that beauty of form and grace of motion, that seems to be the iii-
heritance- of the female sex the world over; but her features were generally
coarse, the cheek bones projecting in a.striking manner.. Besides, her hair was
coarse, and lacked that lustre, which forms such a charn in the Caucasiangi
The maiden on the bank, however, formed an exception to the' rule,  ehf
tirely free from he elects of her race, and her figure and features- form  an
ensemble which would have created a sensation on the thronged buleva s gff

p.

*4

owaom m IS,

MIT

if!
1    t
,   "ir
C

"                                   w
w
j

S
r                                                      '#
X
I
1
gjrl . 4 ''-   is '. s".4 .'.nY.ksliah'-r .ic¢'s
r .Y                                                                -
;
t +' , d


V4

8                THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.
Paris. She stood there with the dignity of a queen, this dignity,.however, tern-
perpd by the grace of her attitude and the sweet smile of a countenance, whose
dark complexion was The only evidence of het origin. She was above medium
sige; he face formed a beautiful oval framed by thick masses of waving hair
that vied in blackness with the pl  age of the raven. Her skin, though dark,
was clear and transparent, showi g the bloom on her cheek and the cherry,
color of her lips. Her profile w  purely Grecian, and the most fastidious
sculptor could have discovered no defectt in it. Her eyes were large, brilliant,
atd yet moist, ofthat dreamy depth which reveals the corresponding nature of
the virgin soul. Her graceful figure was ,well set off by the fantastic dress she
wore. The frock or tunic in which her upper body was clad; consisted of doe-
skin which hed been exquisitely tanned, and then dyed with a brilliant scarlet.
It reached to the knees, and was drawn to the waist by an embroidered belt ofI
yellow leather. The lower edge was trimmed with white fringe 'of the same
material, and so were the leggins which shared the color of the belt. The
small feet were encased in a neatly embroidered mode in, in which the scarlet
of the frock \vas repeated,. showing that the Indian . auty did not only prize
fine material andagraceful cut in ger apparel, but also understood the law of
colors. A string of wampum around her neck and wrists, and a bunch of wild
roses were the only ornaments she wore; but,-indeed, the eyes of the spectators
missed neither gold or diamonds, and so lo vrful was the effect of her unex-
pected appearance upon even the older hunter,'that he gazed fully a minute be-
fore he collected sufficient composure to address her. As to the younger he
gladly yielded to his companion the office of speaker, as this allowed him to
continue feasting his enraptured vision upon charms he liked, which he thought
.ever to have encountered before, which perhaps struck him with double force
on account of the wild surroundings.
When the elder scdt walked towards the'maiden and began t9 speak to h%,
he showed none of that cntempt which had becomehabitual with him in his
tercourse with Inlians. His tone and deportment showed on the contrary, a
respect which would perhaps have struck him as ridiculous, if he had been fully
conscious of it. He went even as far as to borrow, in a measure, the flowery
speech which the Iudias use, but*whieh accorded so little with his general\
blunt forwardness.
" I see a gay bird in the woods," he addressed the girl," which I never no
ticed before; what may be its name !"
This was said in the Delaware tongue, but-was it for reasons of politeness
or vanity-the maiden replied in tolerably correct English.        ,
My pale-face father is very good: he may call his daughter the Wild Rose
of the weaver Valley."-
" T at is a pretty name; does mydaughter go by it?"
'She only claims what, belongs to her; her tongue is not thievish like the
magpie's, nor mischievous like the mocking bird's."

f  Mir,

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.,9
"I reckon hot, and I shall therefo e ask the Wild Rosea few questions: Does
she belong to the tribe of the Beaver that sojourns in this neighborhood?"
" The Wild Rose is the old chief's daughter.
." Ah! no wonder then you look like the princess of a fairy-tale. But see
here, would you trouble yourself to show us the way to your fathers wigwam,
and secure us a pleasant welcome?"
"The Wild Rose will do as her' father wishes. She willtell the'young nen
what to do, and then go with her pale-face friends."
With these words she stepped to the young Indians who had remained :near
the stag and been silent but attentivegvitnesses of the abote dialogue. Shead-
dressed them in an undertone and although the older youth cast sinister glances
from under his contracted brows at what he might consider intruders, he sub
mitted without contradiction to the directions of the maiden.- Both youths be-
gan to puff the venison towards the canoe, but when they calmto lining the
dead carcass into the vessel, their united' strength seemed inadequate to the
task, and the girl was on the point of aiding in the effort, when the younger
scout with commend legeal sprang to their assistance. Bendinghis eye with
undisguised admirati  upon the fair creaturer he cried eagerly:
" Don't, don't! you'll surely hurt yourself. *This is no'*vork for such tender
hands.. Come, lads, one good lift and the work is done. Steady! That's the
style."
When the stag was in the enoe, the two Indians shoved it into deeper water
and began to push it up'stteam by means of pole and paddle. The maiden on
the other hand-after casting a look'of grateful ackrdwledgement upon the young
scout,' beckoned him and his companion to follow her. Sle 'took a northern
direction following, the course of. the creek, but cuttingoff the many curves
which it describes and succeeded in reaching the camp of her tribe at least half
an hour in advance of the canoe. Little or nothing was spoken on the road
her capacity as guide necessitating a position in front of;the hunters.
When the party reached the outskirts of the 'vill ge, several sentinels were
seen lounging about, and if alone, the white men night have found some diffi-
culty in reaching the termination of their journey without molestation or at least
delay. As it was however the presence of the maiden sufficed to clear the
way. She was not even questioned, eider by thegentinels at the outskirts or
by the groups of idling warriors they met and passed further in the centre. At
last the girl stopped before a hut and turningto the scouts, said:
"You stay here a little 'while, me call father."
With these words she disappeared in the lodge and the scouts found time to
satisfy a natural curiosity by looking around. This was no common Indian
town built on the spur of the moment, nor where the houses recently put up.
They were regular blockhouses, erected and afterwards abandoned by the
Christian Indians. ' Mostof' them were much decayed, having been deserted
for more than eight years, nor did the recent improvements appear to be of a
very substantial nature. To cut clown, hew and square trees was too great 0

4
r  y I l 7o
F,4
*  I
.7

-                         -                                                   ..   ,,

-.-. .n}r..  -r--+                                  ..-    3.u.
' r        4.    n


IO               THE WILD ROSE O1. THE BEAVER
task for Indian patience to be thougltof.; so instead of renewing the waiting!
logs or missing shingles, the hoes a I dfrevices of the old buildings had been
stopped up, and patched in a hurried and therefore careless penn er, though-
may be, well enough to answer the purpose. Even in their decayed condition
these'bloekhouses were stuper-ior to the general hapitations of the Indian, and
Robert imagined to notice a more than usul dignity in the warriors, as. they
walked in and out of their mansions or through the deserted streets, in Which
shrubs, trees and grass had until recently struggled for the rrastery. St1,bis
chance of observation was very short, for a minute hd hardly elapsedsince theK
withdrawal of the maiden, when she -eappeared in company of a r anwhose
appearance was as striking in one way, as hers in another. He was  fine spec-
imen of the Indian chief, such as sketches and border tales, have brought his
picture down to us. Although his hair began to, show streaks ofgray and
more than fifty winters must have passed, over.his head, nothing in his appear-
ance bett-ayed'signs of decliningcstrength, O the contrary, where the muscles
and'sinews of his body were exposed, they told a tale of strength andpower of
endurance, which made the thought of a hostile encounter with hin rather un-
pleasant. PXit,more thani these signs of undiminished v4or did the noble dig-
nified deportment, the pleasiiant smile of his well formed countenance and the
great intelligence oflis egle'eyes impress his visitors. He waved his hand to
them in token and then extending it to them for a grasp and a pressure, he said
in broken English, w hich was hardly as good ashthat of his daughter:
"My pale-face friends are welcome at the wigwam of the Beaver. He be far
from hisphome, aiid the pag'faces have not left him much; but what he has
they are welcome to."
Both scouts tookgha proffered hand, and David replied:
"We thank yoti,  Beaver, for your welcome, I suppose you kind o' guess
that we are sent by the General in tlhe sort, to find out whether you have any
7inotions to come to an understandin' or not. So if-you will let us know whether
you mean peace or war, we needn't bother you very long, but can return at*
once from where we came and deliver your answer."
The Beaver smiled.
"You in big hurry.; but hurry no good, You rest first,.then eat, then sleep
when the great light come again intogeaven, then plenty time to speak. Let
my brothers step into the wigwam now."
Tha guests were conducted into a room, which, though bare, of civilized fur-
. niture, contained bundles of moss or hay which answered the purpose of chairs.
When all had sat down, the Beaver filled his pipe, lit it, and after taking a few
dr. ughts handed it to his guests, who imitated his example, and thereby secur-
l ~his protection. -.After a grave silence of nearly an hour the Wild Rose en-
;ered through a back-door, and carried on a stick the savory steaks, which were
probably cut from the venison recently procured. Shehad visely changed her
toilet; but the young hunter thought her as lovely-in 'ter plain working suit -as
in the gaudy dress in which she had first p.-sented herself to his eyes. Indian,

p
r'
a
r
f
Kb
r?

-,                                   s
T'iA 'ILIn ROSE OF T HEAVER.                 Ii
nweals' do not adm it of ninch cererony. The meht being placed on a bundle in  I
the center of the rooni, each one of the party secured a morsel and dispatched
it without other irtipltements than hip ngrs,' teeth, and perhaps his hnting-
knife.
The meal being over, the conipany arose. "My'brothers must be tired" the
Beaver suggested. " They may watif to lay down and sleep.
"Not just at present, Beaver, thanks you" replie David.  It ,don't agree
with me toi lie down i-ight after supper. So with your permission I shall walk
about'a little and take a 16ok at your town,"
"Goodo" said the Bearer with a -smile and the qmpany stepped again into
the street, where the" dusk of dveiiig began to gather,.
"Stay with the' chief" Davidwhispered -to his companion in an undertone,
whefl he could do so without danger of being overhead  "I'llgo anti-recon-
noiter the place. There is no tellin' how soon we may want a little information
concarnin' it."
Robert nodded, and turning to the chief drew into a conversation, while his
comrade slowly and' vithrseeming carelessness loitered through the village.
Here and there he passed groups of warriors, who answered his good evening
with a grave rod-of the head, but made'no attempt'at f her intercourse. As
the scout shad started on his walk for the purpose of se  g and not of talking,
their reserve was very acceptable to him, and before the setting in of total dark-
ness; he- had well nigh finished a circle around the village and fixed its most
prominent features .ihis-memory. He had no special reason for appraliension
on the contrary; the Delaware chief had smoked the calm  with them, a pro-
ceeding entitling- them to his protection; but still the sc6u ad lived too long
in the wilderness not to know the instaility of its affairs, and the wisdom of be-
ing prepared for the worst 'while hopin -for the best.
While he'slowly wandered through and around the village Robert remained
with the chief, -apparently to be entertk'ned-by him, but in reality to engage his
attention and withdraw his, eye froi the movethents of David. For'a'little
while the two exchanged the unmeaning phrases, which good breeding seems
to demand in savageas well' as civilized'society. After'talking forbalf an hour
on the weather, or making compliments to one another, the chief informed the
scout .of the-necessity of his departure, as he had-to see his'brother chiefs and
prepare the tribe for to-morrow's meeting, in which the question of a treaty
,With the Americans wouYd be discussed. This information was of course in-
tended as an excuse for his departure, and the rough frontier man might indeed
have learned many a lessop from his,-savage neighbor, as far as decorum and
dignity of:rhanner'isconcerned. Self possession is the foundation of all civility,
ad .this art the Indian was taught =frbm'his very infancy. The xthite back-
woodsman on the contrary was very impulsive, and given to sudden outbreaks
of-his passions, a fault hardly calculated to improve his rude manners.
" Me back soon," the chief added; "but Wild Rose be at.home; my young
brother talk to-her illonely."

_            t
Vk
3
t&amp;^

e; t
y
Avi


't
,
i
{}a
.6
F
k
a

12THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.
This hint Robert followed to a letter. The girl came from the house
moments after her father hadceparted. She did not bring " her sewing'
as a white girl would have done under similar circumstances; ,nor did sh
that natural or artificial diffidence, which white girls frequently evinc
alone with young men; but for all that nature had taught the young sav
duties of her office to perfection. She knew that she was to entertains he
to the best of her ability, and of this task she acquitted herself with adi
tact. Beckoning him to~a rough bench before the house, and taking
there herself, she began talking to the young man with a'elf-possessi
intelligence which would have done credit to the levee of a princess.
"You know my name; Wild Rose told you; will you not let her know
"Certainly.I will, my god girl, and with pleasure, although in learni
name you will but get acquainted with a very humble and obscure one.
call me Robert Campbell."-
" Robert Campbell," she repeated slowly and with emphasis. " Th.
good name; me not forget it again."
" I hope you will not, Rose; I hope'you vill recollect me as long as
you, and I assure that won't be at a very early date."
"No, me suppose not," she said with a touch of raillery.  'You r
Wild Rose until Vo  eturn to the Fort and see white girl; white girl
more beautiful than Indian!"
There, behold a coquette of nature'sjpaking! Who will, after this, cc
those who speculate with the talent which nature gave them?"
" No, no, my good girl, there you'are  mistaken!" he exclaimed, with
e-gy which must h1te been gratifying to her, savage that she was: She
sweetly, but also archly. "Why you call me good?" she inquired,
roguish turn of her head; how you knov'me'be good?"
" Oh hhe who cannot see that must be blind indeed. Firstly, the Grea
would not have ,suffered the most perfect work that ever left his han
sullied by wickedness and depravity."
She looked at him as if she only half understood his meaning.
" Me fear your tongue be crooked," she said, with a tone intended to
a reprimand. " Is that all why me call good?"-
" No, Rose, I have another reason. I only need look into your ey
then I know for sure, that you are good.'
She sat pensively for a few moments; then she nodtled, and replied:-
"Yes, me believe that,, for me see same thing in your eyes."-
Tha last words were spoken with emphasis and liveliness. They emba
th  young man, or rather they caused his finger ends to prickle, and hi
to rush wildly to his heart, and then to diffuse over his whole face, with
ing blush. Perhaps this was embarrassment for the young man could
summon courage to gaze again into her face. Wlyn he finally venture
this experiznent, hq found her eye, with a musing expression, fixed u
countenance. : There was no coquetry about her now. ,She was eviden

B t
J.

ti
4Y,9
'":

. _

gyf
t
t
3}       tr
a1F

,;           ..
, _,  .

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.
e a few  dying a problem which, sooner or later, presents itself to the female heart, t es-
along,  tablish either her felicity or.wretchedness, according to its solution. This~youthI
e show   pretended to read in her heart, and she now discovered her ability, to faom
when    his. That was strange, but it was nothing stranger than the host of new emo-
age the  tions which crowded into her bosom. She had had many suitors amongst the
r guest  warriors of her tribe, but invariably rejected their offers, the position of her
rpirable i other enabling her to do so with'impunity
a seat     e had also seen many palefaces, who assured heri-of tfeir admiration; but in no
on and   cas had their protestations impressed her like the simple but fervent statement of
the young hunter, who was now a guest in her father's hose. :No-doubt his
yours?"  handsome person and noble bearing had something to do with thisimpression;
ng my    but his superior address and the plain marksof anedd ation above his compan-
They    ions formed the -greatest attractions in her eyes.. Of this she was not clearly
conscious, nor would she, on inquiry, have confessed to such a fact;- but-it was
at very  nevertheless the case, while in a similar manner the suddenness of her-appear-
ance, the fantastic style of her attire, the contrast of her wild surroundings, and
I shall  her-romantic position as prinicess of this wandering tribe, deepened the impres-
sioan which her beauty would otherwise' have made on him. In the morning
collect  yet the victim of the aversion in which everything appertaining to.the Indian
s much   was held by his companions, he now hardly asked himself any more, "Is she"
an Indian?" but rather, "Is she not the most beautiful and enchanting creature
)ndemn   I ever laid my eyes upon?'
This being the condition.of the enactors of the-dialogue, the reader may easily
an en-   guess the nature of the remarks exclfanged. He will not miss the mark if he-4
smiled' imagines anything ranging from the first timid advance to the final andcom-
with a   plete declaration and acceptance of mutual affection.- Perhaps this latter feature
might really have been in the programme, if it had not been prematurely and--
t Spirit  as Robert Campbell thought-cruelly interrupted"by the return of David Ander-
is to be  son. This was, according to Robert's statement -to the Wild Rose,.the full
name of his companion. David was rather in a good humor. He had eaten
well, digested well, reconnoitered to his satisfaction, and this, together with the
convey   circumstances thatone-half;of the mission had been successfully executed, and
that the other half bid fair to turn out like the first one, was certainly enough to
es, and   create the good humor of anybody. When the Beaver returned,-a law minutes
later, David- expressed himself as highly pleased with his host and the whole
village.igfhsans1-oak
" Now, if you can manage to-morrow," he said, rubbing his hands, "to make
rrassed   your redskins dance the peacepipe, everythingwill be right. But it is late, chief,
s blood   and as I am unvillin' to deprive you of your sleep, I'll say good night to you
a burn-   a'nd your pretty daughter. Come along, Bob,"
hardly

.  a   ;. ' ,li, _     '_   .  ...  _                            '°'   '"t :      - .y               ..Y ..c-   4- -"  3, :Aa)im-.-,i.              r-- +-4.s...,p-, .. . . ...-...

k'
5
_
d
i
S1
tE
C
'
3M
i
r
jL
;
S
,"  '
"
C'
i
4"F
'1
p -
P'
,
i'
k ,
.
,_
!;
jam;
;}
k

d upon
pon his
tly stu-


rr
,
:
'
.
. .,
_
t
n          _
=s
E
2
r
6
2  M
r               r
i     '
;j     t
r +               i
5
F
Fi
t
t
i "
t           _
,5             '

c -u'. ;r: ;  -j   t"  it ,t .  ; s i  .  '.
n1oA
in     4( CJAPTEI                    .
STARTIJ pN     s
Teogelehaseadorbe~iernr          asw  a blockhouse next to.the one oceu-
yiedriby -thee Beaversndilliatfanily  It was asdilapilated,as, the rest; but as
they h.surimeratbeni, wth;aistrry. sky, oyerhead,.therewas.notmuchreason
f or)itsaisfa t1om1rff therwva -no ,lock :nWolatch, to keep intrudes outs. they.
wvr.equayl. wanting to.shstipiisoneraup ,Ioth,huntera-stretchedthemselves;
with:d goodrsonsdience, upon theirndeb\tcomf table bedprepared for them,
and{bford theexpizatiomofmacqu rter:o&amp;an hou . weresoun4asleep., Weishall
see-tIlqt;thelf w edestined toib  kene'eqiially saon and: in, rather a start-
ling  2 nea nb t!r" , , )ft l:-   s  a  e   ;
Ae*w mnhtesaafter their] withdaw A froithe lodg oft .th eBgaver,'a  ndian
shout:or rutitnen enteredahis:apartmente. HeH.camewithout previous announce-
ment;ind fron   i br agof                                     excuse
and the panting ofahi chet; the chief and'his daughter dreamt he ccncls.ion, that.
theunne- aa.1he carieriofiimportant new., Thetoo r-Mwas. dark, the glitur
mering tobacco in the chief's pipe forcing the only sourcepf light,  .This pro. 1
ablysu ted the Beaver very wells, it.enabled him;'to listenoto the message with
an uinobserved:countenance.:,His daugh rretiaiedvery still.= She was pe ._
mitte inostlyito, siare her;'fathedsimportant secrets b occasioially-he,-had
thttghproptosse sdihet ot.andit wasfor the purpose of Avoiding this con-
tngency4 that:shesuppxessedialJ signs,ofher-pre ence, , ,
This event, the descriiptianfwoflich has fille4d neady;a page, filledyin-reality
hardly the slace 'of a:.second., .The scout, yinferringjrfm the presence ;of the
pipe:thfatbhe ownernabtal pot be-faroff,, pimply:a nounged his presence by a
sig ifi-ant  "iU  a!"  /: =i._,  ' .    7,  j  .  t         f,+.7.
"I li e  my youingeman' the Beaver replied gravely "what would ,hewani
of'meP' 'He uinust have, great: =news, orhemwou4l i.not-1eave ftogotten the th
iodg eof the Beaven is.generally cl sed so laterat night."
." 1 am awarerof; my rudeness; :but my message must excuse me if I have
done wrong: Is the Beaver prepared to receive it?"    r
" Well. then, listen. 'I come from thebl4ks.of the Ohio. .I crossed it with,
eleven companions to obey your call for a peace conference, Whenjwe reached.
Virginian soil, we were wantonly assailed by men whom we had never wronged,,
-of all the party I come alone to tell the story. I have spoken.."
Truly, he had spoken; shortly, laconically, but with powerful eloquence had
he told an awful tale of woe, a tale containing one of the many offsets, to what
the historian pleases to term Indian atrocities. Well, let him loth them, bgut let

_

wI

r
F
i4
a^
.g
4
}
}t 4
j

: I' MILU :R!OSE1 OF;'r H Ei 1 /AAT R."

TITmWILD RO.T (Cr ThE IWAVf.4
him lofh'still more such'aptions, as the, abdie6 Olaed a tidfis; whali adat148
the productive seeds of bloody fxeds -iWodV&amp;htkd eburiff i3
The chief heard thenew s, b t t hi1he  served iidftvard digni iaht
tranquility; they str del1fhim i4l reality tl'kfshi  st di E h  digt  t'
wa  first: nd tppermdst iis h isosoni the  ri1w-t  ulife
many followers; butthied  -s-andothid oits t ier    e%eihe' ist te
tion of many more,  thriiof foi t iie. HiWcdild 1Iete#   diradf Ar4b-
currence continue toy  otn  el  hi .;peofe, Lei  ari alh gie'With. theJhit-ei
States?' °fAnd yet ia rilAht iing butthidirdhai 'dst 'ei f ;=8hthlk-was
fully  donvinced:=His r1v Stl 'Maglipi ay foo'h lfec'sse ibf '  in  Iis.  in s
terest to flattr the passions of the young warriors and therebf  if hnie ire4
influenceof-the 'Beaver3who gave wholesaenkbut diatableocunsly:Ma'g-
hpiway wouldr make, iapita Vout of these ews . nd yeth ecivertould not
venture, to keel thnv-from hi p: rHe would he heire.of tert ibe     =t
bverstep all -bbunds; Ihe woutdhere the -th  htbf hWg; stsltruck* im fo
the first:time. With=thinitellgeice{suddentirstponthvpgeopIeeoda
not answer for'their jli esi '-Aitd;yet }they had= smoked iittht nLhepipe -of
peace; they had eaterni at hsytablemand we-e no  uleeping underi~disroof.l
would never do ty sairiide.therntejthe passion-if an infuriated malad 1e tl-
erated suchibreach of faith be might as well hide is'fade foreviromhgaerable
men; .he pould neverthfterwards holdupp l s head. :rAtitydt-&amp;6dw saved them
How remove therh frode the remine5 without'exeitigthy'suspiciHo f bia enes
mies? His daughter was th'e orlype sdo hecouldtrustda thin affaittee
and. hernalqne ouIde whispechisdtsir e regardingdh tstinge sj Sqafter
re,olviig. these, i ssues in hi *i mihdwith a rapidly, whic} alUWed   ry reh
sponse to the prer's 9 nmiction he   dg; '.f
"Your words are sad: th  have brought sorrow to thehart of)the Ieaver,
He mourns the loss of his  idren. . ou ai  are alive-  oum o      'ry
ied                   .: ,uate 1{        .      youmo"tbe
tred. Before you tell yog sqryto the itibe;  1                    e'du stat
There isa cbuch; throw your weary Irmbsupontfi ie n"i l  de rarpaup rt
you some food. Will the Wild Rose attend to thie iiftof myyoung an?
The answer, hilhe th  hiefdad expected; di'nofidbme. 1'6 rleafe his
daughter's name in a louder voice-but with no better suc6bs'. 'iWios enW
felt forthe seat'shea-hd' occupied a N4/ithilidte&amp;'gj'iaa 'epty- i
What did. this sigriify?' .Hfa 'she head tlie"?ad riiW&amp;s dad dike{hit father
drawn the -sane fatal cor'ldsioWn' Was ns i W IN t Work taat'air'ie'the ,unsus.
pecting sleepe-s?"'Hehopediit sitserely brit; mateti  kIedfsirhpdrtadte&amp;;rtust
not- be based on nere~hopes'and=suppositions and' thechief'prepiriditorleave
the roon, to convince hinself'ofthe dorrectnerof hiithroughtsJ': '-r1cdw  + .
"The Wild Rose is- not here;" he said't6-thePruihies'whdohad obeyed hid in-
junction with evident relish. " I'shall- go'and find.'herer; May the timerean-
while weigh lightly on my young man."
With these words -ie left the room and went to one generally occupied by his
daughter. Although habitually slow in entering these ppemises, GsPcigiald t

4y                       _
i
rg t  _
I
t
2t
1
a
} r
7 _
4
t {
t t
7
F
t
p            ___ z

119 i ol IM  TTi     .r.p .s  i  s         :  .  .nse." s      sn

. Sa L -  rq dA  dx+  U -  . +   _ ... ... ..f _L.,S    x.-._  -- _     ._   .-_... . +. .....w-w  -  - _     c«- y+ v- "" .T._9.f  6
.!  NyP  r"(                n7F"  E Ti    '       __    5                    t  }  ! 3$  ,   i  Y -      _             yyR__      _ "                   _, I .f jL       ,lx. _:r _...;w _  ,
, _'                 'k        '                                               ,

zi
4  3
1-
"  I / ,
4,y

j

;
t   g;
o.
l
t   if  Y
F;'  a
'. ._-
'

1

0
....ti.....__,..... _   .


1 6            THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.

IL  I  U                                           MOM"

a'-

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.

1 17

night, he now set aside all ceremonies and stepping into the apartment as hast-
ily as the reigning darkness would permit, felt for his daughter's bed and call-
ed her name. But both ear and touch failed to discover any signs of her
presence and his original conjecture matured into certainty. Still he must ex-
tendjiis researches to the .blockhouse containing the visitors, and turning in'
that direction he has alreadystraversed onehalf the distance, when he hears a
slight noise within the blockhouse and sees three dark figures.glide from it and
disappear in the gloom of the night. Now he need doubt no longer. Heaving
a sigiot relief, he turns tovards his lodge, glad and willing to take upon him-
self the menial officers of a daughter,.who has so cleverly released him of an
irksome obligation.
Turning a corner of the blockhouse and striving to gain access to a back
room, when he knew the remnants of to-night's meal to be stored away, he
- suddenly came upon a dark figure, which like himself'started back with a low
'exclamation of surprise. This surprise having rapidly abated the chief looked,
keenly at the person thus. intruding upon the sanctity of his home and to his
greatest consternation discovered his foe and rival-Maghpiway. Of all the
persons on earth none could have been less acceptable to him at that moment.
At other times and under different circumstances the Beaver would quickly
Aave repelled such uncalled for inroads into the privacy of his premises; but as
it was he trembled.at the thought of arousing his animosity. Wishing to retain
the other sufficiently long to make a pursuit of the fugitives idle, he addressed
him with as much urbanity as he could command.
" Ahi !this is my brother, the chief !" he exclaimed with an astonishment,
which h'2eed not feign. "What takes my brother so late into the night air "
That is a question, which I might ask you with equal propriety."
,,My answer might be that any movement of mine made on my own prem-
ises surely did not concern outsiders. . But I want to oblige my brother and tell
him, that I wanted to secure my back door against thedogs, fearing they might
steal the meat standing there."
"rAnd the runner in his house-is the Beaver stingy enough to deny him the
food he badly needs ?"
The Beaver started, a motion, which the darkness of night fortunately con-
cealed from:his adversary. So Maghpiway was informed of the presence of the
runner. Perhaps the latter haddropped a word or two to one of the sentinels,
so that the chief might haveeven an idea of the runner's communication. With
this supposition secrecy was not only of no use, but might even injure the fugi-
tives, who had as yet but a trifling start. By seeming candor he might still
put the announcement off till the following morning: so he said;
"Ah!, is my brother aware of his-arrival?"r
"Yes, why did the Beaver fail to tell me of it?"
The English for Maghpiway.

.The Beaver did not wish to rob his brother, the Red Feather,* the chance
of a peaceful sleep."
"So the news are bad?"
"They will ptut the tribe in mourning, for several of our braves have departed
for the spirit'land."
"Ugh! were their scalps taken?"
"I did not ascertain, because the rnner was very tired, Let him eat and
sleep to-night, and question him to-morrow."
"-Red Feather will ask only one more question; who slew our braves?"
This question evinced as much sagacity, as cruelty. The chief knew the an-
sver before hand, but it delighted him to see his formidable rival at .his mercy.
Thee friend of thekhite man was compelled to record the white man's shame.
For that satisfaction Maghpiway would have lost the braves a dozen times over.
" Vinginians did it; the children of our father Penn woul 0 ave.refrained."
" Ha! paleface is paleface and scalp ,is scalp! The blood of our braves cries
for vengeance and the Red Feather will not'turn a deaf ear to its comes. lk
will kill man for man and take scalp for scalp, until th e spirits of our bravesare
,satisfied. To-morrow he will burn two palefaces aqd send their spirits torthe
blessed hunting grounds of the Indian, to tel1 our braves of his purpose."
The Beaver started again. Pretending not to understand the other, he in-
quir'ed:
What does the Red Feather mean'? the Beaver did not k low that he had
two victims for the stake."                                    4
S" The Beaver has, that is the same thing."
" The Beaver has not. The two palefaces in his lodge are envoys. They
have smokedthe calumet with me and their life is sacred."
"And, I say', they must die; the reeking blood of our ves cries for ven-
geance and when- the Red Feather tells the Delawares they will think as he
does and support him."
The Beaver was well aware, that this was  'ery probable, so he made a last
eftort'to'gain time at least and said:f
"Mnghpiway4fad better consider what he is about. The honor of the Del-
awares has been kept bright through centurig-would the Red Feather ,sully
it by treachery?"
"The palefaces slew our braves in bad faith, they are dogs, they ought to be
tramped to death without mercy."
" Would the Red Feather be as mean? 'Let him listen to the Beaver; let
him retire to his hut and sleep before he acts; the good spirit will send him bet-
ter thoughts over night,'*
The other mused a moment, tl en collecting himself like a man,, who has
ro46med his resolution he said:
"Very well, Maghpiway will do as the Beaver says; but before he retires to
his couch, he must place guards around the lodge in wl ch the palefaces sleep,
,so that they cannot steal away in the gloom of night."

S
4
~i
h sV

4

F 411
r, *tas

i
r
r
,
2
_:

e
"
.#
;


THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.
After these words he walked towards the blockhouse where he imagined the
Scouts still to he. The Beaver followed with a heavy heart-he saw the crisis
fast approaching and that too at a time when the fugitives had hardly cleared
the'slirts of the village. His courage sank within hin and delivering himself
to silent despair, which paralyzed his energy and prevented all further, at-
tempts at warding off the catastrophe, he renained a passive spectator of theI
Red Feather's movements.
That chief evidently walked towgrds the blockouse without any suspicion of
the real condition of affairs, and-in softly opening the door and listening to  the
breathing of the-supposed'sleepers, he merely acted on these principles of pre-
caution which a long and early -practice had made his secon) natube. *If every-
thing had been right, he would probably have proceeded t 'the lodges of some
of his braves andisecured the persons of the scouts by placing half a dozen sen-
tinels around the blockhouse. But unfortunately everything was not right. A
violent start of the rhief proved sufficiently that this discovery came unexpect-
edly to him. No breathing of any sleepers struck his ear and yet sleepers gen-
eialy breathe rather noisily. Red Fyather began to suspect that he had been
outwitted and when he hastily stepped into the apartment and found the couches
empty his suspicion hecarne, conviction. For a moment he stood confounded
and seemed incapable of forming any resolution. But when his reasoning pow-
ers returned and told him that the flight of the scouts must be of a very recent
date, he took his measures with a startling rapidity: He would no doubt have'
liked to vent his fury by hurling his invectives against the Beaver, but knowing
the value of every second, he abstained' from doing, so and rushing past the
chief, rent the air with one fearful yell, which drove the slumber from every in-
dividual in thkt village and caused the warriors  their weapons and rush
to the place previously assigned to them as the re ezvous i'n emergencies.
There they found Red Feather, who in spite of their rapid responses to his call,
had meanwhile found sufficient faisure to acknowledge the truth of the proverb
which says: the greatest haste does not always insure the greatest speed. His
whoop had hardly left his lips, when he would gladly hagrecalled it. .if it
served to quickly collect his wagiors, it was no- doubt also instrumental in warn-
ing the fugitives of the discove v of theirfligh;- and in putting them on their
guard against pursuit. k
The error once committed, he co Idnow do nothing better than announce to
his warriors the loss of their om ades, and the flight of the two scouts. By
appealing to the passions of their savagenature, he might stir them up to un-
usual efforts and thereby neutralize the injury likely t* accrue fromhis previous
hastiness. "- '
Nor wvas his calculation wrong. This'address to the tribe did not occupy
more than five minutes, but at its conclusion the savages rushed into the woods
with the fury of a pick of wolves, and a ealous haste forboding little good to
the fugitives. Red Feather, of course, le the chase, while'the Beaver stayed
behid; for though his nfluence over th t4ibe was insuieni'c',t to restrain it from

'I
ti.
4

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.

the pursuit, he disdained to countenance an action which he considered calcu-
lated to injure the reputation of the tribe.
Before we nIw proceed to watch the movements of the pursuers, we have to
turn back a moment and acquaint ourselves witahose of the fugitives. WVhen
the Wild Rose had learned the nature 9f the'runner's message, she knew at
once that it was no longer safe for the white visitors to remain iiithe village.
ln/slipping secretly front the apartment shehad been actuated by different mo-
tives. gn the qne hand her great apprehension for the safet.f her guests had
made her unwilling- to wait for the termination of the interview; and on the
other, hepsagacity had told her that her father's position would be less embar-
rassed if sh could am and hurry off the strangers without his kr wlede. So
she - had softly slip ed away, entered the other block house, aid by a slight
shake recalled the hunters to consciousness. [he borderm'en of the last cen-
tury were easily roused from their slunber. People who slep  with their guns
in their arms, and hourly expect the attack of a savage foe, areapt to keep their
ears open even in their sleep, and not to pass througlta state of semi-consci us
drowsiness to that of complete wakefulness.: The first touch of the girl had
caused the scouts-to 'rise to a- Bitting posture, and a " hist" of her lips cautioned
them against making a noise.              '
"Who are you and what do you want?" Anderson ,ow asked in an undertone.
"It is me, the Wild Rose. You are in danger here; and must not stay another
minute if you value your'lives."
"But how is this? What has occurred?"
"A runner came in justnow, announcing the B1eath of eleven braves by the
hand of some wicked palefaces." 'yz
" Ugh! that is ugly. I reckon, they'll make us foot the bill for that nastv
job, if we remain'".-
." Yes, even the Beaver could not save you."'
" I gue s not.  W e  te  ready  for  a  start'Miss Rosy, 'so  if you'll show  the
way we'll follow it+ your tracks."
The maiden gYed from the room, and by her perfectknowvledge of the plact
was enabled.to lead her proteges unobserved il the woods. Gliding rapidly,
and with the noiselessness of a spetre through the wv-ods, shg proved a most
efficient guide. Fifteen minutes after theii'departure from the village the trib
had distanced it more than a mile, and the girl ,now came to a halt for 1ptlpur-
l)ose of parting from her companions.
Me must go back," she said, ' elge them suspect us. You know way as
well as me, and to-morr  when then find you gone, you far away and .gie."
These words were accompanied wish a noiseless laiIh, in which th ether
joined. Then the hInters thanked the girl for her generous intercession.. Rel-
ert grasped and firmly pressed her hand.
"I thank you Wild Rose," he said, "I truly'and hearly thank you for your
kindness. I am your debtor and shall not rest until I have'acquitted m self (c
my obligation  Indeed I would he exceedingly loth to.part from you now, ii

I.

'9

*1"
I
4
'4

4L J f'Iu. L

*

i   e             -. 4 _          . -        t               '3'Y'' .4.'   ' (!_            7  e       Y+     _   ._              .               ;    -+ps e..v:.--  - aLv..        -      ...           ;j fr4.gt}±4_        _ _
_                                                                                                                            r

N y       1
I
;c
-wr ti
L
f1r
,n
}   . ,'may   1
~         a
t
f    f. t

k   ffA
r

F


20               THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.
did not entertain the hope of seeing you again., Will you keep a little place in
your heart and memory for Robert Campbell?"
Me shall think of you; indie, the Wild Rose could not forget, if she would."
The youth was on the point of replying when a distant yell startled them
from their fancied security.
"There listen!" "Anderson exclaimed, " they must have discovered our flight."
"No doubt o it," Robert responded. " They'll start on our trail lke a set
of bloodhounds-
The maiden had remained still thus long. She stood as if the yelhad trans-
formod her *b a statue; but after a^ few seconds she had regained he command
of hef timbs nd tongue and urged her companions to a $edy flight.
"Run!" she said in her n tive tongue, which she seemed to prefer in mo-
ments of eeite pent, "Run; or they'll overtake you, and I will be.forced to
see you perish'-the stake. Listen! the sounds are coming nearer. Oh, Rob-
e t; do not tarry!"
Thus urged by their'-guide, as well as by that instinct of preservation, which
is innate to every human heart, the two hunters hastily withdrew from the spot
and hurried through the  oods as rapidly as the reigning darkness and neces-
sary precaution -ould permit. They had to avoid every noise, for alter that
shout of exultant expectation with which their foes had started on their chase,
the deepest silence prevailed over the woods. A careless step, the snapping ofl
a twig, or4he rustling f the foliage through which they passed, could bring
their pursuers down upon them: and much as tly longed to withdraw from
that perilous neighborhood, 4hey were too well schooled in the practice of the
forest, to neglect the needful easures of precaution. An inexperienced ob-
server of their flight mitt indeed have easily imagined that'they were in no
great haste at all. All their steps were calculated, all their movements mea-
sured, and every now and thenthey would even coma to a dead sti and listen,
with an acuteness which only a life like theirs can giveto the ear. Speak they
did but little, for so prfectly didithese men understand  ch other and their
craft that these worts wereuperfluous, especially when as in the present in-
stance they might prove treacerous. Ngw and then, however, they bent their
.heads together, and conversed inthe lowest whisper. _ This was the case, when
all -once a small watercourse intercepted their steps.
rhati Aowv?" said Anderson turning to his companion. " I am for coming"
tota clear understandin' of what we ark about. 'Tis no use to run about like
trightened chickens; but we must layour plans andct on then. So let's have
yo r opinion, Robert."
"'You are the older and more experienced, David, and a.  such ought to peal
first."
"Nonsense, don let us waste our time by turnin"compliments. You hav,
surely served your 'prenticeship, and are entitled to a heatin' So speak-out."
" Well, as you -like, David. My opinion is this: The Indians won'ttry s
much to catch us right away, whc o.n account of the darknes -and s  e little
b                                         4

:

A
THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.                   A
manouvering on our part, woulti be a pretty hard thing for them to do; but they
are more likely to make all haste to outdistance us and draw a line of pickets
between us and the Fort in order to capture ,in -1 gssing it. This they can
easily -do, as there is not much need of secreaoid caution on their part."
"Aye; aye, there is reason in what yotfsgy. Go on."r
"Well, this line of'theirs, it strikes me, will follow the creek the call Conne-
quenessing, on the east of Beaver river, and from its mout across the woods
to the Little Beaver on the west of it. There is.no other li  here a. fugitive
could be so easily intercepted."
"Well, grantin' as much; what are you drivin' at?"
" I was just going to explain. It will hardly'do for us to strikes  in a raight
line for the Fort-"
"No, I guess not," David dryly interrupted., " They'd soon collar us, if '
were fools enough to try that game.
" Well, nothing remains for us then but to turn their flank.',
"Exactly."
"But there are two flanks to choose from."
" True as the Gospel."
Robert indulged in a noiseless laugh, for the cooniess of his comrade in their
trying plight a used him.
"You mear thatistatement-requires but little penetration; still the choice is a
little 4iore difcult."
" Which side would-yo advise?"
" I hardly. now. The country west of theBeaver is les's cut up bypraines
and watercou'ses, but as the Indians know this well as w, they - re.:tileC
likely to expect us there and consequently teep a keen.lookout. Tl e, astrn
ilank offers more natural impediments, but what iniedg us, hinders the enemy
and mayn case of emergency be turned into a means of defense. After mature
reflection I am.therefore inclined to prefer the left flank."
" Reasoned life a larned judge; but .hout jokin' Rdbert, youhave express-k
ed my own view of the matter and if you agree we ny as wellbegin to carry
out your plan. But wait, stop one more momit. It's verfdoubtful whether
we'll have another such chance for'consultation ashe Doctors have it-and we
had better come to a full understandin' conc'erniii' our movements betort ve
start. Supposin' we step first into the run and follow it to where it stu1es the
Beaver?"
" That would answer very well, for besides taking us in-the right direction,
it woulkbe calculated to confound the savages if they should follow ouktraii.
,," Welt, 4then, s6'much, so good. After reaching the i:ivei-, I am for crossin' it
at once, ford orno'ford, Our course on the other side will of course depend on
the nature of the ground. We shall likely find some run coming' from the east
which we may fogow to its ource: When far enough east we can change our
course, steeria' south, untilwe strike the Ohio-wasn't that your idea?"
' It was,Datvid."

I
r 5
_         }2
V,1
-'71
'f k
31

_                                                                     ._                                                               _       ._                             ---y- -. ".-

. =Z'AA

}
j;
.3
tt  " v
Y
L'


22              THE WILD i0O  OF THE BEAVER.

" Very well, then we understand each other to perfection. But one thing
more, we may get separated in our flight-what then?"
You know the big kno ta.&amp;three miles from the Ohio?"
"Yes, very well."      y
" Wqul hat not be a good point gf rendezvous?"
" It wo    In case of separation we strike for it then and wait there for ofne
another-how long?"
" Until sundo'ri to-morrow."
"Hardly that long. The distance is but short, and he that fails to reach it
by to-morrow noon, must be either dead pr captured., In such a case wve can-
not reach the ort too soon, to fetch a party of relief."
" You are. khtilet it be noon then."
"Very well, havin' come to a fair understanding' we may proceed. Will you
take the lead?"
"No David, Id rather trust to your greater skill and experience."
"XWell, as you please. The post in the rear is, infact as responsible as that
in front; for there is no knowin',which way the Injuns may beset us. Are you
ready? Off is the word then."
With these words Davfd cautiously descended to the bottom of the run,
which, like most watercourses of that country, flowed in the bottom of a steep
ravine. Robert followed at his heels and soon they were vigorously making
their way t yards s the Beaver, a course w ich did not remove them any farther
fron , the Indian village, but formed-as we knoxy a feature in the pln they
h~aid-
uaeii stopping place nghthave been about five miles from the Delaware
town ad three miles from the rier, proving that in their flight they had taken
a southwestern directon. ; The bed of the run containing but little water and
few impediments, they reached the Beaver river in less than an hour. Here.
however, their progress necessarily became somewhat slower. No knowing
whether the river was fordable ate t place, they had to construct a light raft
of dry wood on which they deposi td their rifles, powder horns and all such
other implements, as would dat bear the contact with water. . Keeping this frail
craft between them, they entered the channel, which they found less deep than
they had anticipated. The water at the deepest place hardly reached their hips;
but at they resolved to follow the course of the river, until the mou h of some
runycoming from the east, they allowed the raft with their rifles to float on."
merely guiding and controlling it by a projecting twig.
The eastern bank was steep and high and overhung by dense bushes, whose
. shade still increased the darkness of the night and thereby ihprgved the chances
of the travelers to reihain unobserved. At times, however, the channel of the
river lying on that side and the water in such cases being deep and swift, they
had every now and, then to cross and recross, until at length the desired run on
the eastern side made its appearance. They had lost so much time in desultory
movements, that they could form no estimate of the distance.they had marched

3L,
fg a  ^ ,fi-    v^'      Fryya.                  S'"+3. yeit.t^. v}'7C £t t  Ts.tl.' ,
7"                                  R4oSn
d

-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             f   ... .s.bX'{ry l'ka%%   t'         nt   we..YV:..LY3W-w w. A. l :T F :"r.  I..  Y !s.s        s_      .t44i.

"                                 , .L§' 's       ''  3_a,..:. r2 zt :S 'vu s  . ^a..' ' i    °t yr4;';   :*F;4yr;:s'" .z .   r'' ss^= .r; ,,,,Ye . rr;ak o  _  _-  ,'

.!jJjLTiT[

THE wILD ROSE      1HE BEAVER.                23
in the bd of the river. They judged it, however, to be about two miles and as
they had left the village at a late hour, travelled some ten miles and stopped at
intervals, they concluded that the time must .  nsiderably past midnight. In
such a case there would be but a few more he  Hf etarkness, and as they had
still a long walk before them rapidity of motion became as impor  a consid-
ation as stealth and secrecy. Accordingly they proceeded up the  at a gait
which now and then occasioned 'a slight stumbling, accompanied with more or
less noise. At such times they would stop a moment and listen, but everything
remaining quiet, start anew and bending all their strength and energy upon the
task before them, climb higher and higher in the stony bed of the run, which
flowed through aldeep and winding gorge.
At length streaks of gray began to shoot across the sky ineating the ap-
proach of rday. The travelers had added ten more miles to the distance trav-
ersed and began to study the propriety of turning to the right and striking for
the 'stream, which even then went under the name of "Slippery rock Creek."
If the Indians had really done, gs Robert imagined, and drawn a line of pickets
across the country it was hardly probable that this line extended far enough to
intercept them here. They considered the  greatest danger past and resolved to
rest a few minutes before they.would undertake to climb the height on their
right and from there start on' the new course. Selecting a mossy ledge, they
sat down and despatched the remnants of their provisions consisting of corn
bread and pork. The hospitality of the Wild Rose had enabled them, to save
this food and it came now verb handy, as this forced walk had given theme, an
appetite and the neighborhood of their foes forbade the use of the rifle~o  5
purpose of killing game. Their flasks moreover cntained some of.th  -
whiskey, -which the 'western counties of Pennsylvana were famous for pr( ?ic-
ing and thus the scouts were enabled o make a meal, calculated to reri v their
waning strength. A quarter of an hour however was all the leisure they would
permit themselves and at the expiration of that time they roseand began to as-
cend the steep hill constituting the sott,  side of the gorge. The darkness
had by this time fieldedto a grayish t' get, which much facilitated their as-
cent; 'aid increased in strength, as they approached the top. The trees there
stood comparatively thin, so that our adventurers obtained a tolerable vie* into
distance.. The country was undulating or ro ng-with here and there a
higher knob projecting from the wavy surface. But high or low, far or near,
there wasn't a foot of- ground to be seen, that was not densely covered'with
foliage.
As thetwo stood gazing'upon this scenery which at other times might have
excited their admiration, the sun sent, the first- enlivening ray upon the lealy
ocean. In his light they perceived.a foggy streakat the distance of about four
miles, which probably hovered" over some larger streamof water.
"That must be the creek we're aimin' at said Anderson." It isn't over .far
away either and an hour's tramp can take us there. I feel like a different mat
since takin' a bite and if you agree, we may as well start without delay."

3

717,71-7 40'

;1!      't

944I
I'J
}
41


_                 .e _1, ":.-  ;f  5  . ~     ?=_ .     ;Y  ;   -~.,       .  1                     ,......  .  1    - ..~:: z:  ;y.-  .  -"u"§

4
t
E
r
r
F
3
¢K
x
i[
7
1
yy
Pf
7 -
if
f,
i
t
a
7S77   "
F y
g
i

,Robert consented and once more the companions resumed their march. The
ground favored a rapid, and yet noiseless gait and the progress of the two would
have been entirely satisfactory, if the total absence of undergrowth had not
somewhat alarmed then  -  en bthctrees were so thinly scattered over the
ground that they were' able K see a considerable distance. This of course,
would  hasuited them well enough; but this open view exposed them in an
equal measure to other parties, a circumstance much less acceptable. How-
ever they had no choice and so they proceeded in that state of nervousness,
which-the fear of danger is more apt to engender, than the presence of it.
For half an hour everything went well and they were just beginning to ac-
custom themselves to their exposed condition, when all at once an outbreak of
fiendish yells 4n their rear startled them and for a moment threatened to paralyze'
their nerves. This condition, however lasted but a moment and iyhen theyJ
turned to learn the number and position of their pursuers, they did not only'in-
tend to make a final effort to escape, but also urited with this intention the firm
hope of being able to do it.
Still their position was truly desperate. Some twenty Indians came rushing
down the slope, which they themselves had just finished descending. At the
moment of yelling they might have been 5oo yards from the two scouts; but as
they ran at the top of their speed this distance was of course rapidly diminish-
ing. The fugitives saw therefore that no time was to be lost. Turning and
dropping the hand which held the rifle to their side, they cclergted their motion
to a rapid run. A casual spectator of the exciting race which was thus inaug-,
uatdl, would have noticed that the Indians continued to gain on the whites;.
but hecould also have hardly failed to observe, that the latter were not yet ex-
erting themselves to theitutmost ability and that they were moreover laboring
under disadvantage arising out of the nature of the ground. While the In-
dians were running down hill, they were aspending the upward grade of the
next swell, which, though rather gentle, called forth greater efforts and -t the
same time allowed less progress. This circumstance however gave our friends
no trouble They knew that theundians would have to surmount the same
difficulty, while they themselves would soon enjoy the advantage of the coming
slope. *chey also understood the folly of wasting one's strength at the begin,
ning of the chase, especially if it promised to be a long one. The swiftest run-
ner is apt to be beaten, if he does not add-endurance to swiftness. This thing
was not new to them; for if they had never before been in the same strait, they
surely had labored under similar difficulties. Running formed a prominent
-        feature in the education of the backwoodsman. It entered into the pliays of, the
boy from infancy and as many a life had been saved by being skilled in it, but
few would neglect to possess themselves of so desirable an accomplishment.
"While our adventurers were thus running before a deadly foe, they ex-
changed only the very fety words absolutely necessary.
We must part" said Anderson, "vyotl are quick of foot and can outrun, 'em
I for my part shall dodge them.'

THE WILD RO3E OF  THE BiEPVER
"Why David, I won't think of leavinv u.
Moonshine 7I'll take care of mysel,.As soon a you rea  the Fort, take
outa party, to-scour the woods. I shah turn' p somewhere or other, depend
upon it.
"But David."
{ Don't waseyour breath. Mine is getting short already. Mind I shall
take to cover, the first chance I get; so don't spile  eame by any silly trick
of yours."
Robert seemed inclined to make another effort at persi.jon, but as his com-
- panion turned a deaf ear to him, and nothing is more apt to-exhaust a runner
than speaking, the young man kepthis peace and began to arrange his
movements in accordance with Anderson's wishes. They hasd by this time not
only passed, the summit of the swell, but nearly reached the botto: on the
dthpe"side.-The next-grade was somewhat steeper and this steepness'ncreased
ap they, approached the-creek. The woods moreover in a certain measure lost
their open character, the trees standing fuore closely and undergrowth here and
there making its appearance. While this checked both the swiftness of pur-
surcrs.and letthe chances of; Rbert and the Indians ufghanged, it greatly fa-
vored the design of Anderson, W  ,n they reached the t  of the next eleva-
tion, which was so densely woode  s to compel the fugitives to force a pas-
sage by pushing aside the bushes; he looked around for a place where he might
hide himself, to let the Indians pass. Seeing the gigantic, truik of a tree lying
at right angles with their course he called a last adieu to his companionand
after-jumping over the log,. hastened to ednceal himself underneath.' Circum-
stances evidently favored him beyond expectation,  r the log being hollowed
out inthemiddle with the upper and lower ends less impaired, the sedbt found
an excellent, hidig place, of which he availed himself without delay. gCreeping
towards, the lower end of the log.,-until he reached the part, where only the
ieart had decayed .ad fallen out, he awvted the coming of the Indians. On
they came, even soqer than he expected thcm, long before the wild beating of
his heart had in a kneasure subsided. So loud did it knock against hi ribs,
that he for a moment fancied it might betray him to his foes. But on-tierWent,
'more than half a dozen simping on and very the very lqg, that hid him, rush-
ing wildly intQ the thicket ahead and never stopping to examine the truink.
Partly this was owing to the eagerness of the pursuit and the woody character
of the place; but partly, mainly it w  clue to the noble conduct of Robert
Campbell; When the young man imagined the Indians to be near the neighbor-
hood'of his, friend, he with utter disregard for his own safety madh the woods
ring with one loud shout of defiance. This of course drew the attention of the
savages upon himself and by increasing their fury made them less inclined to
stop and examine the way.
After this act of self denial he again bounded away with the swiftness of thy,
deer ind the elasticity of the panther, allowing none of the pursuers to lessen
the iace between them. Of all the scouts of tie Fort he had indeed'the

- :r      M1-wnr+-aa-r. F.A.               x°'"aor~°                                    _      _             r' '^ -+s     '-"+..+ar-..                                           +,.   .ems--,                    ..., .

#T-HN' WTT Th RaSE OF'THE BEAVER.

_r w  _ __   __       -   - -            . _         .... .. _.        _

-7 A

s     IF
I  1i  I)
t
J.;

.            °                                                                                                                                 f'P       or                              r
.s,. '+                                                                                     xa-
iias.vi1_f f;,5,', -
"                al  ± :-. : ro:n.+.d     ..?ha^  giees+r i-f ,.+ z  -      r"''" y++ ['rkrPsy'k.   .,.va.,s.2 ,'.?}.,: - .«,,.: ...
9                                    "-2:


THE WILD ROSE OF 'THE B.AVER.

i
t
F

;
k

I

reputation of being ste swiftest runner and as the chase flew der thie:hill and
valley, the hope of thwarting the expectations of his wild foes, became stronger
m d stronger  alas! he was not t    t man whom a cruel fate struckdown
at the very moment wheh affairs ap#d to assume a propsitidus shape.
The ground over which the ace-w s run, had, as we already know, gradu-
ally assumed a more hilly character. Not that the hills had become an'y higher,
but they had, as it were, been shoved into a compacter form,;causing apid
passage across their brow to be.accompanied with greater exertion arid-con-
sequently-greater fatigue. 'Under these circumstances two miles had' been
traversed and Robert began to wonder why the creek in front did n-ot' fail to
come in view, when'all at once its bed yawned befoi-e liim with suchsdden-
ness, that the impetus of his rapid motion would sur eIy have plunged him' into'
the flood, if he had not fortunately checked it in the nick of time, by s izing a
sapling, grQwing, on the bank. The tree almost bent to the'grounds and would
have bke, if it had not been a tough hickory. Thanks to this circunistance
Robert was able to raise again and look for a place, where a tnofe slopingbt4 k
would permit passage.  For this purpose he cast a rapid glance up and down
the creek; but the sight that met his eye, was well calculated to shake even as
stout a -heart as his As far as he could see, the creek had contracted its' bed
into a deep and narrw gorge,'through which the waters rushed: with a fury
threatening instant destruction, to any o  bold enough, to venture a leap into
their mad current.
To risk a spring across was hardly less perilous, for the chasm at the nar-
rowest place measured at least 'twenty feet: Yet the fugitive had only this
alternative, for to stay behind and surrender himself into the hands of'his re-
lentless foes-was out of the question.  Nor had he much time, to prepare for
the fearful leap, for a site minute would bring his pursuers tg his heels. Rob-
ert' had therefore hardly taken in the-nature of the ground, when he set upon
the execution of this desperate measure. . -Selecting 'a place free-of underbrush
andstepping -back sufficiently far, to gain the necessary start, he ran towards
the chasm w ith the swiftness of an arrow and with a powerful effort succeeded
in sending his body safely ,on the other side.
Tlc. momentum of the leap caused -him to drop on hisikhees and hands, but
- *     in a mOthent he stood erect again and turned towards the creek, was on the
point of sending anther shout of triumphant exultlion into the air, when a
hand was laid on his shoulder and a voice whispered into his ear:
"Pale-face good jump! much good ump indeed!".
A though completely taken9y surprise thescout turned to the person, who
had so boldly ventured within reich of his arm, fully determined to made him
feel its strength, when-behold! his eyes fell upon fully a dozen of Indian war-
riors, who had formed a sehi-circle around hin, cutting off his retreat in every
direction, except that ofthe creek, to leap, into which would have been worse
than madness.   To spri   back upon the other dank was almost out of the
Question; for even if the Indians arotd him would have suffered such a step,

'L-IOe'-U

n                                          Svi   i       t".?      $ a{ t. :.  x;,zcrr a:       x. e y'-s;':.. ", + r,'°;:°      :5"  { °'az                            _                                                             _

v'"S^e'F '°_*,xF    m4 r ..   n5+.1' ".  efi -x.  _               i      (                 --       :4                             _        °  '    -T' CYf^°  "" °
g                      i

26

THE WILD ROSE OF THE      AVER                27
the appeargneegf his pursuers on e other s-e cutoff eviy Whaice of escape
in that direction  SQ: 'when=the sav  danced fn all sides, to secure his
pers~on,'he suffered them to tie his haiypon Gis back, and to march him to
their  age, without the least resistance.
CHAPTER =I:
LOVEASA DELIVERER
saWheft'thc  reached there the sun was near his meridian. In passing the
dge' ot the Beaver, Hobirt saw the chief Stan ling in the door, a picture of
sullen dejection: In the rear he percived theWWild Rose;, vo looked at him
with a lance of deep compassion. These signs were rtper discouraging, for
Robert rightly constructed the dejection of the only friendly disposed persons in
the camp as indicative of certain a  erhapshorrible destruction. Theistakes
and 'iks tortures rose vividly before his "mind and for a moment he regretted,
that he had not thrown himself into the waters of the Slippery Rock Creek, thus
securingat least a rapid death. ;But youth is like cirkwood in- water-it will
not bedepressed any length of tirmeanei only surrenders hope  vith life. If
Robert had no great expectatioifof escaping from th hands of his foes, he was
at least confident of finding an opportunity, to make te attempt and in tht-
tetpt meet with a more speedy and l ss pAinful death thadwaited himn at the
stake.! ,-the bordermen of that period v*ere perhaps as fond of life as we are
but the-constant-expectation of death inits most horrid aipe constantly nerved
them in- eimergencies to an: extent, which seems truly wonderful to us. {Al:=
though they did not carry stoicism as far-as' their savage neighbors who would
endure the- tortures without uttering a sound of pain, they were aleAt and in
many lustances did for hours bear torments, the mere thought ofwhich causes
a- shudderto creep'over our body; So, ifthe young hunter did not go to ||t
his faie with the boastful challenge of the Indian warrior , he' Was equally far
from fear and dejeion. His face wag pale,)ut as he retui-ned the exulting
glances of the tribe, that had gathered on the way to the council ground, they
became fully convinced'that lie wduld not increase their sport by vain expostu-
lations and appeals to their mercy.
The place, where the Indians met in council, was in the center of the village.
The blockhogse us-ed formerly by the christian Ir' ns for religious meetings
was standing on one side of a kind of public squar . It was in as dilapidated a
Condition as the dwelling houses, but still would answer well enough for hold -
ing council. Into it therefore the prisoner was led and placed in the center,

A!il
R fiL
a'
I'11
r
f  . tPit

i


_____________________________                             MR,

 ,
'
11
Vr
I-

9L

r.

t; I

e  ,. ,l

-Ow

W

M

..

-, 7?

28               THE WILD ROSE OF THE       ER.
while the warriors-ehtitled to a vote in-council rapge4 uhe lsjves on  number
of logs lining the wi hi en all were there, the Beaver aroe and informed
the tribe of 4heirr aI of the ru er and t character of his yvs. He called
upon the man to tell his Story ai  inner acquitted himself of his task vith
the eloquence peculiar to the i;ed nen.iHe described the crossing of the river,
the peaceful nature of their errnl and the cruel and wanton attack madfiupon
their party.  This part of the tory was delivered rapidly and irr a loud tone;
but when he related the death of his companions and enlarged upon their mer-
its and respective virtues, 'his voice be o ne deep, low and mellow. When he
stopped and resumed his seat, a dee  si el ce pervaded the assembly; but the
furious glances, which the warriors cast  on the prisoner, told hini clearly,
that the silence was more ominous, than any exclamations-of wrath, in which
they could have indulged.,    .
After the runner had retired, Red Feather rose and addressed the as 'embly.
After recaptulating tlat part of the previous speech relating to the virtuesof
murdered w arriors, ', bent his whole skill and energy upon rousing the
sions of his hearers. He told them, that the reeking blood called for vengen
that the spirits of the slain wvOhld wander restlessuntil the blood of the white
man would fow in, retaliation. . He then referred to the prisoner and told therni,
that it was not onlygtheir privilege, but their bounden duty to sacrifice him to.
the names of their murdered brethren.;
When he retired, a dull murmur ran t tough the assembly, which might have
swelled to more glaring mnifestations of exciteme t and fury, if the Beaver had
not risen to address them.' -'No sooner became his intention manifest, when
every sound abated and the assembly, prepared to listen wit every indication
of respect to a rief; who, thought far from. absolute, had ah ays .stood high
inh estimation of the te
He begar' by lamenting the fate of the murdered party. H  admitted, that
the tribe, had just cause for indignation and that this wanton act must be re-
venged, but hecouelled the assembly, to temper their wrath with prudence.
He warned them not to punish the innocent for the guilty, but rather to delay
their vengeance, until they could turn it in the proper direction. He ieminderd
then,,that Virginians and not Pennsylvanians were guilty of this bloodshed.
He afinded them of the good relation, which had always prevailed between
the tribe and the children of the good father Perin antI finally implored them;
not to suffer their better judgment to be blinded by wrath and prejudice, nor
their honor to be sullied by: rourderirg a man, who hadgnked the calumet}
h lodge of their chief.
When this impressive harangue was ended, the assembly preserved-the pre-
iuus silence. The Beaver had appealed to the better nature, their reaso andC
that was ai undertaking by far more diffieult, that that of Red Feather. , or
i this so with savages al e-all the world over people are more easily swayed
by passion,, than by reason; hence the struggle of the true statesman with the

THE' WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.                 29
demagogue, in whichIhe better but t9o frequently obtains temporary advanta-.
1aihp way ie a second time,,    his spec h contained thing new; it was
sigly a -repetition of his former i nective  'a nmord strenuous key  Beavar
'saw this; he  saw the resolution of the assembly fixed on their faces and un-
willir{to waste his words on deaf ears, proceed  to take the vote. In answer
to the inquiry; shalt this prisoner die? a majority of the tribe struck the ground
with their-tomahawks, answering the question aflirnatively. The Beaver how-
ever saw,=that this majority was n  overwhelming; that. consisted of the
younger and more passionate ut e influential members of the tribe and on
This he based his'hope of finally  iing the prisoner in spite of the resolution.
So the Heaver once more addressed.the men, asking them, whether they. had
not bet r postpone the execution of the sentence, stil after their return to their
more    stern home? To stay here-much longer, ie said was out of the hues-
ton, for the companion of the prisoner, who had escaped 'them, would by this
be at the Fort, urging the sending of troops agai  he village. He, the
ver, had hoped, that the journey of the tribe to this ace would result iri the
tablishment of peace with the people of Pennsylvania, but their decision hav-
ing fallen the -other way, he was prepared. to respect it.  Only this he would
submit to their consideration: would tlr speedy execution of the prisoner not
delay their departure and thereby 'endader the safety of the tribe.
TIhe chief saw to his secret satisfaction that his words had-inade the desired
effect on the older warriors; he might perhaps ha*carried his point without
opposition, if -tRed Feather had not sprung up, an  in a furious strain accused
him of the design, to depxive the young men of heamusement'in store for them.
He demonstrated, that the execution would only delay them a few holrs, and
. thai, moreover, in case of an attack, the tribe was strong eough tosrepel any
number of pale-faces, that might be sent against it. He was in favonof4  ry-
ing out the sentence without delay, and would ask the ted ion of the tribe on
the question. Again a majority of hatchets struck the ground, and although
the Beaver perceived it to-be lesser than tife one with h'ich the first motion
had been carried,/he was deprived of any pretense for further delay. He thei-e-
fore ordered the' prisoner to be removed from the building, and to be led to the
center of the commons, where a beech tree of about a foot's thickness afforded
a good opportunity to carry out the fiendish design of the tribe.  ;
Robert Campbell had in the mean time been the prey of varying emotions.
His knowledge    e4Delaware language had enabled him to follow the
speeches which      een delivered 'in- iis case, and in proportion as they were
friendly or hosti hu hope would rise oT sink. Nothing is more calculated, as
'we have said before, tounnerve the heart than doubt and expectation? If Rob
bert had- at once been led to execution, he would have borne his lot without a
inrmur, but this bebate upon his destiny had strangely increased his love of
life.and hope of ultimate: escape. When, therefore, after all, his doom was
1 sealed and he was taken to the tree, that was to:Ipport his body writhing in


fi   V A"q,.. #~  ;  i-  , '' ^"r  ':        ".,'"{ - 'aJa ,r':-. f. .,,,'t

30              Ta  wILD ROSE OF TH    B
the agonies of death, a momentary faintne s overcome him  h  g
haps have dropped to thegrour l ifear  he eultation ofikfes athisi
play of weakness pad not upheld him.  e bithihsteeth, and bea ing, as it vier
with all the energy of his will upon his tottering franessuqceeded in e ming
put victorious from this struggle with human frailt,. His command oer his
m,'a -  r=chsd°with 1laid ove
nerves returning, he rose to his full height,'-apd loodingprodly on the crowd4
that gathered for the welcome frolic, mar        steptowadsthe tree
In gazing upon thie multitude he notice gain the }Vild Rose, who occupied a
place in the rear, but never took her eye f'm his person. When his eye met
hers she seemed to be greatly relieved, for a pleasant smike passed over her face
and nodding eagerly to him, she pointed toy her bosom' It was evident she
means somethmg, though _obert was unable tounderstand it, Still  r symr
pathy did him good, and the picture of the lovely gr fastened itself more firmly
is heart than bo    Having arrived at the tree; some one cut the th
Sth? held his arms.      is was the moment he had looked for; in another'
ond theywould be fastened again, or he at least se ured to the tree; so, it
meant to make a desperate attempt at.- flight, this was the tine. Looking
around for a place, where the surrounding crowd might be broke with some
_ J-prospect of success; he snatched the nife from the Indian near him, and was
just n the point of 'bounding awayhn suddenly a sight met his eye, that
made him stop in extreme surprisecausing his body to remain immovable,:as
if it had been cut out of stohe. Breaking through the foremost circle of specta-
tors, a young maiden started into the open space, which had beeji left fogthe
actors, selected to play a role in'the approaching tragedy. Her face, of course
was turnd towards the prisoner, and it was the recognition of the lovely fea-
y't         tureof he Wild Rose, that exercised so powerful asspell upon the young hu'
ter. He saw inddthe lovely daughter of the Beaver, who, by her conduct,
excited not only the aspishment of kobert Campbell but th w d
the whole tribe.  Na ody seemec~to               ' . ac  te0
hav anticipatedsuch a movement, and the
crowd stood, as it w. re, spellbound, in the eager expectation of what was to be
t 'ill  the result of this.  The Wild Rose, however, seemed to know fully what she
was abou4    Iasteniog to the prisoner and pushhg aside the warriors sur-
roundig im, she seized his hand and led him a few steps from. the tree to-
wards the place, where the Beaver- vas standing in the. circle: There, she
raised her ar in tokenof her desire to speak to           cement hardly
necessary to secure a hearing, as her previous act had"a  'produced such a
silence, that the humming of a beetle could ha'e beet  alf over the a.
bs ea father thehie
speakltoRsewfatherkthejchiefs, and her brothers' and
the braves," she said,.in a sweet melodious voice. "They know,.that the Wild
Rose is not given to chattering like the magpie; they know, that she has never
before thrust her presenchpon the tribe. When she does it now, she obeys
the command of the Great Spirit. Last.night this young pale-pace hunter met
the Wild Rose in the forest, 'requesting her, to lead him to her father's lodge.

T E yI , ROSE OF THE BEAVER.
S      -.ui  he wished. She prepared a meal, to appease his hunger, a couch to
r             :e hi we ijss. He spoke to her and his wordsgent straight to her
'ert . 8h      -ead in the depths of his soul and her heart ly open to him.
t                        -ust hat  n the Great Spirit thatdthem together  any a chief has
aske  yild Reto Follow him to his wiwaui and be his squaw; bkybt her ears
was depf and  herheart o&amp;lsed, so that their words could not epter.  t'must
have been the Great Spirit; that badethe  ild Rose listen to the words of the
pale-face hunter. She cannot set her wiI against His. - He made her forget
the shyness of the mn maiden, that ils from the gaze of the multitude. ie
gave her courage tostiand up before Vter father, the chiefs and her brothers, the
b-aves, to claiman oldiprivilege ot her nation. She adopts this paleface hun-.
ter as her husband and asks her father, the chief, to release him from his bon-
dageb 4l'he Wild Rose has spoken."
It would hae been a subject worthy the painter's brus , to depict the effect
this speed on the different'parties around hgr. The e  tive at first listened
with curiosity; but'as her intention gradually developed itself to his understand-
ing, supiise, joy,'gratitude and love for this'lovely and noble creature struggled
fbr mastery in heit heart. Forgettinghis situation and his surroundings he drew
the bashful, blishinggirl to his heart and cried:
"And nbblylhave you spoken darling. It must indeed be the Working of the
Great Spirit thatmade my heartyearn towards you with suchiLonging fratn the
firstmOdment I'laid  iry eye on you. Let come whatwill now; you have made
me very happy by ourconliessidn, dear lovelygirl."
But while the young hunter was thtis revelligifn the extacies of first love,
the chief Maghpiway entertained sensations of a very different nature. Fury,
envy, and jealously were some of the ingredi'ants boiling in his bosomy
Gladly would he have'foiled the'girl in her attempt, to rescue the prisoner, if
he had only seen a way t&amp; do it. : He knew.well, enough, that the..customs of
the tribe sanctioped her proceedings and -enraged,. as he was,: helackedThe
courageto dispute the-privilege. He was one of the chiefs, to'whom the Wild
Rose had'alluded'in her speech, as having found-no favor in her sightand the
former antipathy; which had filled his heart ;against the hunter asa pale-face,
now assumed the character of the mostrintense hatred: He cast sucl fur ous
glances- on the young man, that the Beaver-deemed it prudent-to step between
them atdito station -some of his'trusty followers in his}neighborhod besides.
On Lthe whole th    e-bore the diskppointihent of their savage:sport with a
bet, r grace+t chief had reason to expects Therewere :some sullen
e     heart the young warriors; but  their dissatisfaction did got gotfar
enough i   a    'ife t itself iri wods., poweverreven-if it'had,4tie Beaver backed
b ythe more prudent portion of the'tribe, had;sufficient power, toquellnydi
b   ethat might arise   Still he hadbeen. a ruler long enoug4,,to know,
tha authority, like olished steel, getsrusty by e osure and that e people
seldom  miud tle prod provided-it is covered  with velvet.  SF w ud rather

N

I'

t

s;'  -.y 3'
.4'~     . 6
Mai      iV

I

kp-

I


k'.
I

The chief said these last words more to himself, than to his young guest,
who observed a respectful silence. .After a'few minutes the Beaver resumed:
"The Wild Rose has been the solace of my age. If you take her away, I
sliall miss her very much. It is hard to think I shall no longer hear the sweet-
ness of her voice, the silvery music of her laughter. StillI suppose it is all for
the- best; indeed I see it in the hand of the Great Spirit. The Wild Rose was
not made for the wigwam of the red nian; she would wither away like her
namesake, if plucked by his rough hand. But will she be better off among the
pale-faces? Will the Yankee women not look down on her, the daughter of a
chief? Will not my young friend finally tire of the Indian girl and repent of hav-
ing taken her-to his bosom? If 'I thought so I would .s  'bury this scalping -
knife in her bosom, than let her depart from my lodge-'
."Surely, the Beaver does not think so meanly of ime!"t e scout responded.
"Has not the Wild Rose saved my life? Has she not bestowed upon me the
most precious prize of her affection? No inde d: the sun will sooner siverve
from his path, than I from my fidelity to your daughter." =
' So may the Great -Spirit bless you as you are faithful to this vow!" thet old
chief 'said with -a voice so grave: and solemn, that his young hearers were
deeply impressed. "But where do you intend taking the Wild Rose? They,
would scorn and scoff her in the Fort."

32      ..       T THE WILD ROSE Of THE BEAVLl.
persuade thar comand, and knowing that nothing is m111 i 4 hulat  r  =
gender bad thoughts, than idleness; he directed the tribe tor  ith ut delar
the necessary preparations for an early departure., To this th  TId notgbject
for they knew well enough, that it was impossible, to remain so near the, Fort
after this act. of violence committed against one Hof the envoys of the com-
mander. So they set to work with a good will and in the general uproar soon
seemed to forget the prisoner and his strange deliverance.
Robert of course accompanied the-Beaver and his betrothed into their lodge  ..
where he received back his rifle and'accoutrements. Then the Beaver assured
him of his hearty approbation of his daughters's conduct.
"I bear your people no grudge," he said, "although the red men have received
many injuries at their hands. Fr that however, I hardly blame 'them; they
act the part of the song against the weak, ot the many against the few. ,Ihe
Great Spirit has willedit so.  the case were reversed, the red man would do,
as, the white man does. 'I foresee the destruction of my race and my'heart is
heavy at the thought,; but I am too feeble, to stem the cur-ent and therefore
ready to yield to its force. My people blame me for this'; they set themselves
against the progress of the white man and in the foolish attempt fritter'away
their{strength. They will kill a few, of cour.ge, but what does it all amount to?
You cannot dry the ocean with a dipper, nor scrape down the mountain with the
hunting knife.  The white people are countless as the sand on the seashore,
and the poor Indian must dwindle away before him--a few generations and
you will see him no more."

7'j

-                                                                                                                    ._ W   '--   "

xfMEwIL ROSE OF T HE BEAVER.                 3
_&amp;  inot thought "-oft Robert said'misihAly. "Althis has come upon
"   dsud "     at I have hardlyjhad  change of rde' ,on.
dwtv~h       - -interposed..
ill m     ds listen to the counsel of the Wild Rose?" she asked.
Tye  pale- aces are at war with:the Delawares now; but their enmity will not
last forever.  Robert hasna wigwam Torra squaw nova; but hen the war.is
over, hewill have one. The Beaver entiot spare his daughter now; because
he wanders about from' place to place and 'has no one.to prepare his:food and
4his couch, if -his..daughter leaves him. Butwhen the var is odei;he'cap
i&amp;me backto the banks of'the Beaver, where the'bones of his fathers lay bur-
reed.,  He can then spare his daughter= the Wild Ruse because he can live
near his'daughter's wigwant and she.can tend to his wants as b-efore' Spek
is the'Wild Rose right?"
"1ly daughter is, very wvise for one so young;" the chief gravely replied.
yhat does my daughterpropose?"P
Robert asked:no questions. His heart had already told 'hinthe meaning of
her words. He looked at her reproachftilly but the aiden smiled at him her=
sweetest smile, as if in that way she meant to ask his forgiveness and then re-
sumed:
' Why; if her husband cannot take her, and, her -father cannot spare her,
what can the Wild Rose do better, than stay at present, here she is? Surel-,
thephief .her; father, would 'not close his door against his daughter?'
The smile stealing, over and.brightening the face of the Beaver was sufficient
answer. Before.he: couldreply in words, Robert exclaimed half sadly half' re
proachfully:
"Rose, you surely cannot love me, or you would not propose to leave me
now! "It is fair to ha'e sh wn me -the garden, of Eden merely to closets gates
upon mel"
The girl rose -andseizing-h'is hand knelt down before him:
"I ot love you?" she said with a deep convincing  stress.' 'ave
not given myself to you beforeithe whole trib'? -Hawe I not violated the yi aes of
girlish :shyees to save four.life? What= must I' do to convince yoti? Plui"e
your dagger 'into my heartaind expiring I shall bless the hand, thaitstruck1jhe
blow, Bid nie Jlave my parent and'xtiy tribe and I'shall follow you t5 the ufter-
most ends of the earth.-.Oh!what shall I do to persuadeyou? I cannot 'ake
many words like thg:angeesee girls; butfif you desie it' I can at any moment
lay'down myy life :- you.' Scold me, abuse me, but oh! never, never gain'
doubt'the fondness of the Wild Rose for her husband."
These words were uttered with an emphasis doubly impressive, because it
was tempered .with the sweet submissive' resignation peculiar to the Indian fe-
male. On' *Robert it had a most powerful effect. He drew the kneeling form
into his-arms and pressing it most fervently to his hear, merely murnured:
 "Forgiveme,,Rose, forgive me.""
The maiden -gently disengaged herself.

-             -                      _                                                                                                                                                           -

l4

Immoolli i I -- MW        , -

nl

,                                                                                                                                                                                  .,
-  7 '              _   ![_     i       .: ir' l      an.r .rs ~c         _..  a....,.,    " _ .. .,..    .. -gc  « . "  "- -- '-  -"_ .-. -.-r     x -r.  ..r-aa.., a  s .            -                                       :                     ' ,r-.+  -   v,

_._

IT
41
t #F9
*1'4
t ~
r I
is}
4   .   I

.
F
E.
i
:
i
: '
r
r,,
.
r
_      ,
":F
_      i.
t'.
-
.i
'.
.,
- {{
is
s.
n     F.
_.
; 1, i'
h

/

F

., Y ,                                         t Z&amp;A


said:
"Rosy, you must riot go beyond this point, Much as it pains me to re-
nounce the pleasure of your company, it would not be safe for you, to tarry
longer. The soldiers of the Fort are surely on the marceven now and I
tremble at the thought of your falling into the hands of these rude fellows.
" Her husband's will is law to the Wild Rose."

TH WLIM tOSE OF H11EMAVIR.
Will my husba   now let egi   ah my father?
"Yes, Rose,a lAill fc         tigya dtto
are not only the fairest, but the sweetest and most en   °I ever
saw."
The WilioQe AiNd,    a   *ug      -d;te v nanthatis !t.ddifhted
to hear her pr~is onep        e  vr     et'tobei bor
" Knew 't,_e said ep  tigayrXor ebe#-t is. as good as ieis vis  e
he never wogld Ny   gained any h    °eart. °,t I heateuespieg5tli* r a 7Y
for a Start: willny 13slagd s4 e ha is°wihitheyeav r  d allo  he
Rose to Ncdonpy i m a itt di4tceerhis journey.te t t?"
"It is ahie fy ,t ne for .me start? Wel, if it must be met, ICI-meet it like a
man   Good by3eaver; youphave -on my esteem as well asny :ifect6  by
your noble conduct towards me. You are but a poor Indianohief; ht Ih
sure there many potentags-that may surpass you in power but yonouttai hem
in wisdom and goodness. Lets hope that we shall sob mnieet again and that
too, when the hatchet is buried between Our nations and"thesefan- iragions
only echo with the shout of the huntsan and the chirpig of the feathered
tribes. ~Farewell to you!"
"Farewell," the chief replied, coveririghis emotion with the sternness df-the
Indian warrior. "May the Great Spi it snile on you and give ligtness to four
heart and strength to your body. Do not forget 'her, thtdt now sacrifices her
love to her duty and who will never smile again except in anticipation of a re-
union with her husband. In giving young my. daughter; I hayeivren yu a price-
less treasure; remember that and remember silso the vow you made before the
. Great Spirit."
Their hands united in a fair pressure and then they parted. Wild Rose went
with the hunter and though there was not mugh danger of the couple
being noticed by the Indians, bent upon early starting on their western jour-
ney, the maiden chose such by;-ways, as were least calculated tosbing them im
contact with the tribe. When they reachedthe forest, they waandered hand in
hand, when the nature of the ground would permit it. Their hearts were too
full and their thoughts too busy, to spek mth. The novelty -of the situation
might also add to their disposition to indulge ina pensive mood and the fear of
uttering, the fatal word "farewell" bind their tongues.  Their hands firmly
united, with now and.then a loving glance into each others eyes, they Wandered
through the forest, until they putthe distance of a mla between- themselves
and the village. Further than this Robert-would not Ist his consort go. With
a manly effort he suppressed all selfish feelings, and stopping suddeal , he

1 0

4

,

I' - M =h,

Y :
'          -

it

mr-

v. .:

'             i                                       --c                                                             ,

.
fi'
r      }__
. :
i
i-
i     F"
z
: ,j
;'t .
_
-

s
_
,  \~
"              , ,
s"
z
t
F
f
J
i
v
1
F
i
i
P
j {
Y
i       '
n
t   ^Ai 1

THE W     j -,R jvPOF TiE.-A-aI ,.
.Farewell then, sweet Rosy; will you sometimes this;f your Robert?"
" Wild Rose will have no thought but one."
"And will you endeavor not to tarry too loang?"
"I shall follow the tidings of peace as early as the wild swan does the arrival
of spring."
"If I should not hear fromyuot   a i fal y, Rosy If peace delays too
ltngygumaysga    =o #rJokfoiy cdmi       t iouriwestern hnie."
'M y  husba ; st4 o tiex p ehms e 1 M  a d eiif dm d t  f
p sexppseypgrseifeto iafuryuvoherill                       .
"Ishall takeca  of n lfei:ut R6sy ibthis-sepa stion realftd be? Ca i
it b  that you arkjta trnfrom meandthtin'aefiv whminuts Ihla seeyou
sweet face no,mprer .
The iaidenhed -e   e rag oi ement:F;*,.
"The W'Ud Rose carkbeaiteis her hhsband, the great cout hbriter ,wakeP
than weman ?s'rJe
"dAb  u1ar appealigto unyypride? Well then4ffdourse I ought rnot a
law mylf:ta be outdn=byeao wqman;:though th twman benthn bi     s
c   ,vysstrof-hersex, FarewelUWild Rodeof the Bea er, fareweln yo wn sw et
darlipg       "e
The hunter-sd rew her-.into a  'soaecbrc-,,h
The thod a n  rei      passidnate emrace;which she returned .yth'all
the waCarnare unrestrine4hltheftters of-civilzation Seenghb
re eguld nt sumo; nt        ouiage, to tear'himself away, she gentl.
disengaged herrelfrofromhhii withethe-whole power of hePaffettinshin
h rquntenance ad then turned. to gd,without-koking-backupon the ydh
whose fate had, so suddenly.egcme linked to hers. Robet  azedafter
wie  sharp sa'_t onpofpaimand if he hid not been-ashamed to beti'1 abe-
tore heira sig ,off so rmu h h weakness- he would= have hastend after hera
again Clutched her to his heart. As it was, be admired herf4o#itude but-
felt a pgng of4jealouslyf.atlte thought, that hdresolution had been reter
her .love. At last-lhe turndand :plungedSinto the bushes with-a haste, as
by physical exertion he desired to drown the throbbing of hif heat and t
busy w~dfh   ~brain; Iutathiseffortiwis not successfulein spite ofhis haste
the lovely image'of themaiden,-who had-rescued-him from death: and  ast
so intimate a relation withhimd woukd not leav e him; it adhereto
Sthrougl the noisy, scenes of-a joyful meeting-with his comrades landw for
many a weeks the constant companion of'his wanderings by the dayan- ,ii s'
dreamsby night.-y

Aida

-Ii
a
tj;
x'

ti


THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER
rya    '                _

CHAPTER IV,
A b              T   -    FORT MC INTOSH.
out two months. after: the above adventure-severa
could be seen approaching the landing at tetfotu fhe eleatots o w sbateau
brow Fort McIntosh was standing.   T are foot ofth eitein, on  h
elevated position as they rounded the bendarrison had escpedthemfrobin'thn-
ng from a northwestern to the southwestern course, whieh it maintains tirn-
junction with the "Father of Waters."  eNicore wic iths daisais tofits
brisk as .at present, when-the passing of thavigationmthose days wasn't o
hourly occurrence, and the arrival of a bate noisy steamer fra dailytand even
atthe Fort. Those of thegarrison not on duty hastheced do  rh cied t y
that led from the fort to the river and awaited iastened down the covered way,
the clumsy crafts, amongst whose merit s   surely the    tow appra
ted. Ter-wr tre'f he,            tlas speed surely, w~as not to be -enunera-
te.There were three of them, two laden withsupisorteFtadth
third with a small detachment of soldiers n  supper for the Fort nidth
who had business at the Fort and ben eeandthea number of othereindividuals,
Amongst them were also a couple of ladies, a  sigh t    ofa th cr peditioi-
erable curiosity and expectation amion s  sight calculated to create consid-
erabe crioityandexpctaionamogst the- men on shore, especially since
onedof them seemed to be young and handsome; This nurore, s    sre b
Anderson and Campbell, who both belongd -       s curiosity was shared by
S The curiosity of the former, however, was destie t crowd  i on the uanrdin
bordering on consternation when the older wo   o se   te    surnise
to him and throwing her arins around hiwman, on -seeing the scout, ran up
toohit andethionate hcrees.  a    dhis neck, began to cover him with the
most- affectionate caresses.
"'Madam," he at last exclaimed when he had si r~
breath "you are surely very kind; but still I do snotundetd  youecoug us
surely be mistaken?n'                          understand you-you must
Oh Dave, my dear, dear brother!" the woman exclaimed re  a u  ,"
you really pretend to not know your sister, ouraonly sie proachfully."do-
The scout started. Holding her at arm's legthh side
Indeed, if I didn't know niy sister Grace to be married and living' inPhiC-
delphia." .emareanlii'nPhh
Been living, Dave, you ought to say," the woman
a handkerchief and wiping away a solitary tear, which she had managed to
press into the corner of her eye. "My dear good husbandphn! pooh!-dma
dead and buried poor soul."
He is-is he?"
"-Yes, Dave, -and he left a poor helpless widow too. I had just enough to
bury him and to travel across the mountains and here I ahm almost worn ut
with the hardships of this dreadful trip."a

4

TTE WXLD Ros ;    ir    AV R:              37
"Why you look eaty enough, Grace; but you would not like to live here in
thiskwilderness would you, Grace?'1  "
'   sAlas! ihm abody a choice.?What'should=we-pdor Rose'and I-do in the
Iarge city, without the mans of livelihood?'
With these words  she looked -aountati the' yungr woman, who had fol-
lowed and stood behind her during this iiter ieew' preyt confession and em-
barrassment.  WhenAinderson'sEattentionvas thusF drawn thegirl, he'
started andevinced 'an emotion, which ih&amp;imeeting of his sister had thus far
failed' produce.
hy, race, you do not mean to sat, that this young'woraais-"
In saying this he had taken a rapid steptoWards the girl; but in consequence
of his uic linty stopped both his words and'motions.
"Indeed. Dave," trace responded with an eager tone and nod of her head,
" she is nobody else, but your own daughter Rose and a good darling girl in
the bargain, I assure you.
"And that you only tell me now, you silly woman!" the scout exclaimed,
folding the hesitating girl into his arms.  "My dear,' my darlin' daughter
stands near 'me without my arms openin' for a welcome! Alas, mypoor Rose,
many a year haspassed since last my eye dwelled on your countenance. So
'tis, no wonder,that you have grown out of my sights You have your mother's
features though, Rose, and if I hadn't thought ydu far away, I would have
known ypu after all. And so you have c'me, to live with your old fatherin tlye
wilderness?"                                 -
His tend erness ha; in a measure dispelled her shyness. 'Looking with a
smile into his face she-sai:
"If you will let me, yes, dear father.
"Let you,of course i shall 'd have called you here before this; oriLy I was
afraid, you wouldn't like the wilderness. Say, Rosy, ain't you a little afraid of
the red manand his scalping knife?"
"fNo 'father, not as long as I am under yiour protection. They tell me the
Indians stand in"great awe of your skill' and prowess."  ;
'Tut, tut, it does not amount to af much asthat. -Howsomever, I should
like' to see the redskin bold enough to lay'hands on your pretty curls, child,
=a  tut we stand' here gossipin' as if you had only come across the river. You
nust ibth be tired and hungry; so the sooner we get to Your quarters, the bet-
ter youwill like it I reckon, Have you your trappings :with you?"
" Yes brother Dlave, these packages belong to'its.
Well,'we'll 'shoulder them and then march up t the Fort. _Robert rill
lend us 'a hand'I reckon. Rose,. this is Robert Campbell, a good friend and
companion of mine. Shake hands with him, and you too Grace, for I want
you to keep good fellowship with him.";
The formality of introduction -having beenattended to, the company began to
ascend thsteep road leading up to the Fort.  It ias dug into the ground and
then coveredwith brushwood as a protection'in case of an attackby the Indi-

+r-:-r  " b-      ' ..:..,. 7. .,...-s '   A--  ms'- .  s. .  a.- .. _ _..'.,..

I','
ra e
1#1

r..rlM l n

_..

4


ansE     ch ?F  leN a z,   t ,tg yg      ,enle the wppe taking a
smaller one themselves, they soon manage tn'e ch t4  qg  ueasneped4
the use of; Agderpop. Ithergo , dapigr gad4shy rd it; wit, hji ;- but the
young hunter cheerfully evacuated - pag r en4frtbipe   i    ofete e new
corners. The garn    e    e    thhusgs asjaasgrphisjhad kep erected
for ogsiders in cas af ark Inj taig.g in aozi .ofgt     eto     u   is
-abode, regnovi ghi 'arnisand te few afles9compr ing h*a appear ,angfy
niture. Alter. that she ret u ed jugt ii p ti toact .a guiid and,protecter, to
Rosa Anderson, who was extremely anxious to explore the sti ongppd,, which1
henceforth was detined to. b hpr on.. Hefathrh d ko mk.some.s eight
alterations, to suit tl n char tyrof he hqusehold=and as his.sis te; was
anxious to unpack and 'aring  erploes nepitheroflthsm felt,#isposed.to join

mn the ragmble...
"Ian sure tI have seeplerityaof farts 'o P groad,' she sail,," and tw beteen
unpacking and getting supper ready-for I suppose that willbe1 n" business
now,- hain't got a minute.tq spicre np'her. S qayqu mn st fxcuse_ me, Rosy.
But if you ain't tired enophu,yet and this youngggntleman, is wiling to show
you the sightsa-"
Of course I will, madhrand with,plpsqre."  Robert responded .and lead-.
ing .th girl from the hguse,,filst condoted er along the iris e of th'e works
It was of a quadrangular shpe, the front bqing about dQublyas longas thee
rear and the twp sides cutg thiectorrer at,agpte angles. of eqgal size. The.  '
Irunt corners contained bastions, that were armed with asix poundsr, while
the.balange of the enclogre consisted:iot strongpalisades, al1tut fourteen feet
high. They were built bullet proof and built in a very ingenious manner. The.
requisite number of trees having been cut and spit in the center, one, rowgwas
erectedwith flat sides towards. thg n terior,, and so that'a pjank oftht second
row wpuld cover a crevice in thysfirst on Irgu nails.being uutpf thp ques--
tion, the pallisades were fastened together-inayrypsim}le but suhst~ tial man,
ner by wooden pins. Nor difi t he bgildingsstlemselves show anymore traces
of iron. There were reggjr 1b delogg     thffigo ,pe    a   s ins;the
stockades'and slanting gently towrd4s the interr.thus furpshiig ptand-
ing places, from whiph the,ga gfdsgcoula eufipon attack ngoethr goup
holes cut in, the stockade.  Theeter f the frontptockade contaip a*nl,
ate;.which, .togeth  with th covered, way, kept up th irepugsewithe h'4A
river. The interior ofthe t onsisted.9fa vacant sqiarle, ined by the block- /
h6uses  above nientioned an  cortii ng  a  flagstafffrom!''wlih theft
stars andstripes were exposed to the breeze  This was the r.w servieable
'ortfiggtion, called -Fort Mcintosh,g erected4 only ninety yeas agq, viich now,
as not only vanished frormsiglht down oitsyery foundations; but also nearly
'rom the remembrance of the town people .living on its.site. '
The daughter of David Andergon exanined everything with scruntinizingg
'-.e and the questions, which ,she. addressed to her companion, betrayed so
-        much good sense, that the girl rose frapn minute to minute in the esthmatiorn

}
1
3
i
i
T
't

11

_               _                          _                _                                  ,
;
..:- ,p.y        _  .      .....       J.,  .. -- -  -                         ta      x                     _                                               -  -                                             r     _ ,

rf the setit. 'That esheWv nhtida hi , t , } n  oufftlakh'aditiced
from the first; but the lively conversation, in vhi  the-t    egod 4Odei
the walk around iIoe rt' iaid e hesipk 9f 4  hghe ifnet dherebyin her
eye, had the eflegt of considerably he l fhhnttiitity. 1he yongman
Was citifotisu  fiected 1by at$ i*at lhtis eat  r  dvied any seistion
'siriilirto thatiith wiichi'tlf  dl  arfirl hadliihpire hif-no, his, ybung
stnarrger was6more  u ject for 'h i  ffdtons, tlanhis einidtins.  dui
nidretealii thete ehad ,nerse ti pet1tfdr ;3h+ face was  oin liar itMdin,
a     t    ee   is brain  einkA  d   eyto i heseueer iiaginations.
Perhaps the -stories, which her father had in long winter nights -related to his
otg ri'en'd;"to cerlig his tla i't rirshcbden-thiecause' of maki n'e/prer-
ifatniilidir  the at'er;ee thi's iirutethe case, for in vin dia he search
frei- kng gjihbr tion e hf i nydt  This"  t idin inJa'ralther houghtfu
oo ; or    owtd not help rcdilec i"gb j  Aoen Anderson had expressed it
as      o _  d'rnt wish, that liid aukiter -aildthe young friend, he so'highlij
valued fo  is nuimetous god -lualities shouldd become a couple.Forinerly
Robert htd listened With much cntrilacency to his'prposition; butlhis rencon-
re with the -Wild Rlose had of c c   idca ghd''his wsiesin that respect.
Thu s far he ;had'abstained froitin kti ' fo dld aird long tried friend a bairty to
bhe nidasweet sect t=lhe hid' o filligbt i etlisY e waso re'sered
frofarrason  of' r ddenceiui froiimir  t 6of "Andis - ' tIgs ha dn feie'
}aceouinted' to -himself. These formr ncuififii det inuliications of theiffalier-
now g a inedsuf- infuenced=-hs" feeling s 'i ts ldaughter, an ho liugh e cari
badly xbe Ail t t e' even iti thought violie lhis ow of Nilbliij1giv'ed to the
wild Rose, he bettainly looked tipba th ,irl ai 'his;side ewithf d 'gtpartial it Y,
whiichr we are aft to entertain for person  'things beonging to us. This gil
might be "his, iHlie tily chose to asIior hTie rid   thdiigh lie was fuhly re-
solved, never to do this, it certainly gave a waiver epi hsiaiIto the glarte
with 'Which'he looked a her; a  rirfiler-shade to the fel ig he entertainied for
her.
'Afefnishing the circuit aroidtd le  I'fdt they were just on the poiit ofsre-
lri'thegate Wie    n they saw a youn     l ofice  approaching them, over
who  face, at the sight f th'e girl, asd a' bright sienile of recgnition.
Rob er   W ts stibik With the manly glrey ainhaiids6ine ountnanceiiTthe
young Man, who must have conie on the bateau' i'ith teftr opfor hewas a.
tal strange' to the scofft. lis  rth.fi'eiaps:less deiefoped'f iii-
diedtie {ofdstrength, -ertaiiily sil od firt frboprtTors iidthe riegilar'featir-es
4)H1i6 fted vd relif t ip'  ejian  ei ris dhii feitiiicotinfi iiife ligen:e.
When Robert noticed the stranger's look  -iie tirndl idet'bhusty  the
girl athis side,:Atdobseevei on h&amp; -co telain t  Ani tl' eny'theffeciofi c f the
other s'=fir ;lut-as he thou' hTlia so rsideraile cdnfesion.  Whatcoud
this ui '?fTIey surely lkn vone dWoti
Hit ttih df'thotitgf va'snferuyti y    6cer's arrivalin their neighbor
heod/Ief'tuptanid bbWiig u&amp;tife gI,'said r  bc htif :

1J
.
71$
IN:1
41 4
I .  P
. 43  - J


-° , . -   ''               X  aye.v"  w -  r+-..- '-- -   -  - .  "r %-

40              TT1   vLD   OS OF THE BEAVER.
Ah, their is our fair companion from the bateau; have you reconnoitred
your future residence?"7
Instead of answering~,ie girl introduced the tvo to one another..
"Mr. Campbell--Lieutenant Sanders."
"Mr. Campbell," he qaid gaily, "I suppose I have, the advantage over you,
for I have'already heard ever so much about you and your doings, while you
most'likely have never heard my name .mentioned-simply because I have done
nothing yet, to make it. Still,,if you'll have the goodness to initiate Me in the
ntysteries of border warfare,PI shall try my best, to do credit to your instruc-
tions."
Campbell merely bowed assent, not that he lacked words to make a suitabp
reply; no, it was rather a vague feelingof, antipathy which filled himp against
the attractive stranger, perhaps for no other reason, but simply that he wasat
tractive. I do not mean to say that Robert was conscious of any such un-
worthy motive, but I am equally sure, that he made no attempt at all to ac-
count for his dislike. Human nature is far from being perfect, ,andJIhave np
desire whatever to draw the model of a perfect map. Even the best aresub-
ject to errors and if the reader in his further intercourse with Robert appbell
meets with traits,, which he does not like, I hope he will not forget that Ierdq
pict in 'these pages. men as they are, not as they ought to be. The officer di 1
not Iseem to be discbu;aged by this lack of cordiality, taking the others silence
perhaps for the backw6odman's unintentional diffidence. Rose ApdersonItos- ,
ever thought differently. Was it that her woman's perception;hadedisclosejl to
her the nature of the scout's feelings or that she herself was, particarIlyinte r;
ested in anything concerning the young officer:, she cast at Robert a rapid side
'lance at once imploring and inquiri g; Perhaps he. saw it;,before he had
time to make a reply either in signs or 'ords, the ieutennt again drev the
attention of both upon himself.
I have just received orders concerning my men" he said, "and nust ow
attend to them. -So you will please excf me. The adage. 'Business beto
pleasure' holds good in the Wilderness as. well as in more civilized 9omn- .
-ties. My duties will probably fill the re t of the day; but t~o-morrow ~s
Rose, you will, I hope, allow'me'to- call at your quarters, and, make '
quaintance of Mr. Anderson, who interest me as much on your account;:
his own. Util then farewell!"
This meeting at once 'changed the nature of the relation between Rose a4
Robert. Instead of the gay talkative persons they had left, they returned
thoughtful, even pensive, he wondering what this could mean1 she, how much
be could possibly have discovered.
When they reached the.blockhouse,,the two rooms of whichit consisted, had
already assumed a very different aspect. A woman's hand was plainly percep-
tjble and to judge from the amountgf work Mrs. Jones-Jones hadbeen hes
husband's name-had accompli xed during the short absence of the young
couple, she certainly deserved the name of an efficient housekeeper. ; She: was

THE WILD'OO$E OF THl  E '41
on thepoint ofa  hin   er prepasans for tea  tea $ be taken )n the true
sense of the wordwh    redyell onherniece
"Well, Rosy, justiitime' to 'etnda helping h nd:she said  "P ton this
apron and wash the china cups aidsaucer  we ffetchd along.  W',I=show
these savages 'what aar Ilisupper means. bInsupposeyQuAhaven't taised tea
these five years, brother eh?"
You comeawell nigh the truth, Grace  H towumever you needn't take ali
that trouble-op our account; we are used to rough treatient.
"So much the more you'll appreciatea change  I'll just put on a decent
table cloth, although it strikes -me it will never' he'siniothbon-this table. I de-
clare, it takes a good stretch of imaginaton to recognize it as a table at all.
"Well, well, I suppose it is'rough enough; Grace, butnya good dinner
\ has stood on it and. as to appetite-it ',as never wantin' tothose, that sat
around ait.f                           l
" And that is the main thing,=Dave, Wafter.alwell Iani ready,  please sit
down and try what we eastern folks can de in the line of making tea.  I'sup-
pose this young hunter:wijl do, me the favor toaccepta cup?"
'' Of course he will, Grace," her brother replied instead. £4want him to con-
Sider himself a permanent boarderin my house. He was kind enough to make.
room for you women ,ih the way of lodging ' so it isn't noie than fair that you
should compensate him in the way of boarding .
".Oh no ,David, I can never consent to such an imposition on-these ladies."
Oh, it'won't beany thing of the kind," Grace exclaim ed.  It ain't a bit
harder to cook for fourithan for three."
"That's what I think, sister Grace, moreover let nie tell you that it will be
well-for you to keep on good terms with friend Robert; for a better hunter
than he never pulled a trigger in these wo6ds. If you wagt a piece of venison
all you have to do is to let him know it; he can get' you a turkey or a fat
buck- at any time, providin, he has a mind to."
"Aht:if this is so we must endeavor to steil ourselves into his good graces
-musn't w~e, .Rosy?'-
"My father's friends will always be mine, provided they care about thc
frienship of a plain;and stupid girl like 'e."
"Miss Rosa underrates her 6wn mci-its. Her mirror will tell her that she i'
j tlain and-short as our' acquaintance is- -I'll var'ant that she is fiot stupid
"Well said my -boy, for one not used to'the company of women. But it
strikes me we have had enough in the line of compliments now and had better
proceedto somethinmnore substantial. Sit down Iobert"and you Rosy, for I
see Grace}is' bound to do.the waiting' part: Laas, me! t makes me think or
olden times to sit-at a civilized table and ejoy the company of -vomen. If it.
had nqt been for the gursed Injuns, Rose, fur mother might be with.usand
complete our happiness."                               bwihsa

-  -~     -                                                           A-'   -

4
i -

1e m-"ee +esr+« - n c=- -^.,e ". .s +x ",-,+.g ew- s+-'r .r rtF, r  ftertr ^+- m 31
,                      -
'+
;i -_      ..

-     , ,      _.        ..            .   t

AW
- 13
L1i$ l;
_-  o
I t  4;
t  4 t
F7I  j j
.p j  3


The Indians?"   obet inquired.     y ©ai    ow     ot mean to say
that Mrs. Anderson came to her death at tel aj   -x-
Indeed I do, my boy, for t, is the    l  t'lde truth."'
Andyou nevermeioied it to m egfpr
"4Well, Bob, you .may per aps wonrdey tat, .We two haven't manysecrets
from one another ard it wasn't for the sake of secrcy either that. I never- told
you. Some how it never came up between  a ad then to teltthe truth, it is a
sore spot in my memory, which. I am.lpth to tpuch."
" If so, David, excuse my, inquisitiveness,"
"Oh, never mind that now; it has been.brought up, and I may as well telt
you and be done with it."                                 °
After swallowing the morsel he was chewing and clearing, his-mouth and,
throat with a sip of tea he said:
"It is now nigh on twenty years that this horrible affair occurred. We
had left tl country east of the mquntains and settledtin Bedford; county to bet--
ter our fortuneand to get more land for the benefit oFl our children, We had-
only t 4o girls then, l;ut entertained the fond-hope that Providencewouldsooner
or later favor us with the birth, of. a. son. Instead of that.,however I was des-
tined to the cruel fate of losin' my whole family save this one daughter by. the
hands of the savage foe, that was then makin' inroads upon the settlements, on,
all sides. Unfortunately I was away from home. on business, when the;riews.
of their coming' first reached me. Leavin' my business unsettled I hastened home
with all speed; but only came in time tg witness the fallin' in ofE- my house,
which the savages had set on fire after finishing theirworl of-b"tohevy4"
He stopped and his hearers likewise maintained a syrmpatheti silence. =Rose
seized the hand of her father, who, touched by4 its token of aftectior, stroked
hers in turn. At fast arousing himself from the gloomy mood- into which-thef
sad recital had plunged him, he- continued:,

"When the fire had died out, we found the charred remains of several grown
persons and children showin' that some of the neighbors must have, takeref-
uge in my house, only to fall there victims to the fury of the Injus.
"And Miss Rosa, how was she saved?" Robert eagerly inquired.
"She happened to be out with sister Grace huntin' berries in the woods. To
be sure she was -too small to walk herself beind hardly a year old, but Grace
would carry her you know. The child was fond of blackberries and in her ins-#.
perfect wa4y, make known her wish that mornin' to'have some. So Grace hu-
mored her and went out with her."
- What a narrow escape!" Robert exclaimed.
Y Yes, you may well say so, Mr. Campbell," Grace remarked. "I heard the
tumult in the woods, and not knowing what to think of it ran towards:the-house.
Reaching the edge of the woods I saw the savages at work and came near
Posing my presence of mind, yduuma y well believe. Fortunately they had not
y-et dis -ov.-ried me, so I pressed the child closely to my heart and fled to a

$

=; :;

r4
F-k

A TRIAL OF SKILL.   -
Outfftdntier iien;of the last ceNrturfledsimpe lives1 tly retired earyand.
coiedeitl =rsei ihtime and vhen   f tiemori gfolloiig tnh sun shed his
 i         t         anogsea tbpW y  acpehisrAys litihei urr maiden that
stood on the battiisatid eai t n admiringg-n e upr ntheb mautiful view be
lawi It-is hairdidfor us-td Imagine evestyrace ofocivhjiti oawayfrom a val-
ley-than now teeds with villages, factories, farni na rcuitlite acres. Stir
at tht tine not -a single  house was in view.' There&amp; ven oods around t-
Fort-with the exceptieof a -arrow belt that liadbeen cleaedaway td guard
against surprise; there were-woods on'the{pliin,svli no wcitains Pli s
burg, woods on the site'of Rochester and Freedoni-in'shot woods as far a;
the eye could-reach nipandtowan the river, - Te-rewWnas alsa beautiful woode
island in the OQho right opposite the mouth ofBeaveWrCreekandthe o fthern
bank projected muchfurther into the river, whose mater ee-inihhes of drout;
never reached the"low ebb of the present day.  Perhaps - ie narrower bed was

.., e w~  .-. Ye  _or~y.,R..  .  ,: c,,  +  ,  ;' _ +    Y~.   mi5;'  {}9"ry 4-   -  - . -.   -  A

thicket, where Ittnftit           1 e   i*roi  'roused me. Afler that
I did not stay            theb'fore s  M  i  esta     d.
Andyety 4       w tifretidn   se con d the Iiiy he nein rorhood of such
dAngerou foes '
«Well, What could I°do?We-werewithut Suiof-t ran  rotection, andas
Rose was. anlousto go to herit ei V~hoisiheiadi ot sden th een years
we jfinedabody.of trop S that *dsto croisai eounfains and  iatway we
managed to reach- this tortin safety. I si pse  there is not nuih danger of
the indians :herd'
" No; ,not very much, I guess:. StilW fdO had ndf better ventur out alone,
for though them are notrmany redskins in th *eigh6thood at present, we
catch a-few proling abouneevery now and then'
" guess yOu won't cats te going outj I havegot enough of Indian dev-
iltriesfor.oneaYoudhad better address your warning to this your  diy 5s
is youg: yet and rorgantic,- setting great: stores 'on Vidsatid  sets and
moonshine and all the like of- that."
PavidAnerson laughed while.his daughter blushed more deeplytlhian the
oCCASiQ sgmegd to warrant. The gathering glooni-of night houiever}potecttd-
heron iscoge y and soon the remark of the widowswas soon forgottdti o$er
other topics of conversation.

Ii
4 J2
 '  y 1
VA  f

{645            _ s i" tl    '"    " 'Fti,     FA

...,k .                                                                              -                                                                                 t '

m     s


i
i
i
I
W
1 Yj
rv
z"!
4
r
Q
t
Y
5
T

"And it is very well, you didn't Mr. Sanders," she said archly, "for if you
had, I surely-should not have recovered from my blushing arid confusion yet."
i But what is this young man to you?  How does it pome that fou exploree
the fort'in his company the very minute after your arrival?"
"9Who should he be, but my father's friend."
"'And not your own?"
"You do not expect my father's friends to be his daughter's enemies?"-
"Rose, 4o not avoid my questions, for I assure you, I am very much in ear-
nest."
"sNo, I hope you, are not,.William, or you would deserve a good lecture for
your want of faith. This morning is so bright and cheering, that I am inclined
to look at everything from the bright side too. Come, tell me, you were merely

Y         -  L

joking."
"Well, even if I would, I somehow can not get this young hunter out of my
mind.. He is a handsome, noble looking fellow and when I met him first, I was
much repossessed in' his favor. Your embarassment, however, changed my
notion, and I now look on him a good deal in the light of a rival." -
" Why, it seems you are actually in earnest, William,";she said reproachfully" 'Ia
" I do not know what I have done to deserve this suspicion of yours., Perhaps
I w~as wrong in giving such a ready hearing to your protestations of affection;
for you now seem to think, I might as readily listen to another, as 'I _'do'to you.
This is indeeda proper punishment for my forwardness; only fromyou it comes
with  rather a bad grace."
"Rose, dear Rose, you wrong me," the young man said earnestly. 'I do
not doubt your faith; but might not this hunter be my rival' against 1yotfr
wishes? He is your father's friend, and as such-"
" My fathe.is_ n1o tyrant to compel my in-lination. Mr. Campbell is indeed

T    W p) 1OSE O TE: BSAV Z
calculated to keep the channel deeper prhaps th endf  ods occasioned
more riin; this much is cerain, that the Ohio =rvei  terv4 hat time much
mote than to-day the appellation of "La belle rivere' or the  beautifulriv"r.
The girl on the bastion took in -the beauties of the scene with a dreamyeye,
until an approaching footstep startled beran4 caused her to look back. It was
the 'young officer who had addressed her at thegate the evening beforeand
the smile with which she greetedshim lit up a countenance, which ha lost
every trace of revery. She returned his goodi morning" in a gay voice and
when hi extended his hands for a friendly pressure, she gave' him hers without
hesitation. The young officer seenie4 delighted at this favorable reception.
"Ah, Rosy, I see now that pu have not changed as I was afraid youtwould;
fast night," he exclaimed. "When -I saw you at theyside of that young scout,
blushing and stammering in confusion,4 was afraid my fair companion of the
journey would be lost to. me. Inlee, Rosy; if I had not been afraid to make a,
scene befoe this stranger, I might perhaps have taken you then and there to
account." I

h. _   '

.C

or t

.-  .

'                                                                 -         _                         r4'° f         =F_                   :v          .       "" t        'lw'i*  -..i.                     Yj;p.             __     .r  ,l.. e.:           ,.tnsyat, , :"'.    144.  ,                     ';L S. ,, .:A:^"s.? ; v ."  ''                                           '
_     xa r  -,sr..., .k,.,. ,. ..       '          +-M'!y°          's'---".,M^ro.,.*   -e...                             ..                 -                   ; a : f  ,                    '$y:pay     rt,     x  'F         ' r       "  ' "                       .

----Now

his'tfriend,' and if nt
toteeri4ri fui'irl
id your father
" Not artly, be
the grl whdrl  ould
gratulate herself.
"Ait y'4u, ose-
"'Ihdeed, I -did
know that my fath
way."'
":And-this provis
M=s=.wanting.M4
man of rather 'fitful
"Well, as for hi
- "Oh, Inmerely m
has intimated a des
vant."
" Ah, Rosy, you
time to gain your fa
",But that task w
us;about his ,avers
rifle and the huntir
I hate heard that fr
"Well, this a d
catmmendable qual
ctrien'   leqaiptins and allow
A hasty exclama
girl exclaimed, and
wham the reader I
officer, if -Rosa's e
comer was rather m
sweet maiden. T
to start thc key of t
mark which might
-      nore precarious ha
Good morning
.an .ficctionate kiss
th  it does not re
"Oh, perhaps y
You surely mst he
tinces so early in t
There was a thr
Fortniacquaini
forward enough to

,w
y,.,a+-F«. +, .e..._     ,t ~Y,             srs                 mx-                                                     -                  - ... ...i5      zr;' ~    ., a*J  f.  '. ' ~ ';Y ,'  !F                i      , .   "

'EWILD RS OF  t~fIE'AVER: .
Wish on niv n fath -'sxide 'to  ee him and me united &amp;onsti-
, he iif inded de ere that rianie"
really hint'such a Wish?"
it he intimated last night after Mr. Campbell had tirede, that
seEure him for a husband would indeed havereasoigto con-
15
-I hope you cntradicted sucanunwari-antable assertion?"
not; for I haedseen 'enoug" of 'this young huatter now, td
er is tight; provided the affections of both parties meet half
6"
1y, affection :happens to be fixed on a young military gentle- .
moods and as for him-"PA
m?" the lieutenant exclaimed eagerly.
eant to say, that thus far, no word or even glans of his face
ire of entering upon a:nealer relation with your-humble ser--
.0
r statement greatly relieves me. -Just let me have a little
other's good ,ill and I shall not fear a dozen rivals."
ill iot be a very easy one; -don't forget what aunt Grace told
ion" to military men in general. Madh as he venerates the
rg knife, the musket and the sword are weapons he despises.
eni his own lips,=short asour meeting ha--been."
[eplorable defect in a man- of whom I have heard 4o many
cities , Still, I trust, that he may. be.persuaded.to make ex-
me to come in as such. How soon-"-
tionof Rosy caused him to stop. .'"_My father;" was all the
turning around the lieutenant saw a man approaching,
has met before, but who would have been a stranger tothe
exclamation had not given him a clue. The face ofth ew
morose, in spite of the respectfu'4meimn of the soldier and the
here is no knowing what he might have said  f permited
he coming conversation, but his daughter fearing a rudc-re-
have the goped for understanding between the two much
stened to anticipate him.
dear father,."she said, running to meet him, an4  n him
v I thought you were early risers here; but yet seems
qtire much exertion onthe part of a town girl to beatyou."
ou had extra inducermentd, Rose, and I think, Isee thems
awe plenty'of leisure, or you wouldn't begin to'form acquai1-
he moinin'!"
ust at the soldier'and Rosq hastened to waid it off.
Lance; father? Why, you Would not 'think-ypdr daughter
igosip with strangers in so public a place and at this time of

e

r
I
f
3
s
z
a

F
J
-L
.l.


'I

T'k HWEiL TOSE OF -&amp;HE  ~

the dgy! 1 o, father this geialemanis nob strgr; it is Piewuaant  SI
who accompanied us all wy from  hiladglgh~ i .n d  whoigntgigusy
wein a great measure owe the satisfactiop figyi g reached tis ort  out
much letrimet to 'nb and property.  Whensaw him this mrnngj could
not resist the temptation of showing him .that our gratitude l t ;  ceased
with the necessity of his attention."
"In that, child, you were b  right; indeed I give my thateks : a gptle-
man for any favors he his sh'dmn you and youu aunt  If he  ants any assis-
tance in my line, he 14as only to apply to DavidAn rson." ,
" I thank your sir;" the Lieutenant, replied, " and shall not fail to benefit by
your offer.  My ignorance of - e woods is only surpassed bythe ldve I bear
for them. : I would:therefore cdnsider it a great privilege, to-beallowed'to,serve
miy term of apprenticeship under you direction"  . . /
" Well if that is all, you can be accon  at edi'replied the scout, whose feel-
ings of animosity against the young sollr haid considerably abated siaee the
avowal of his great partiality for the woods.
"I suppose you have supplied yourself with everything belongin' to wood-
craftibefore leaving for the west?"
"Yes sir, I have everything complete.  Amongst other things, I boast of a
rifle, which surely can not be-surpassed in all the frontiers,' =
"That is saying' a good deal, Lieutenant, but I am not the man to contradit
another without a show of reason. I ;shall} be prepared to tonfirrn your
statement or dispute it, as the case may be as soon as f1' hav&amp; een the gun."
If that is all," the Lieutenant said with a smile, " it willoiply take me a min-
ute to-produce it. I am really'inxious to learn the opinion of sogood ajudge."
Well, sir, if you will fetch your piece, I shall not withholImy judgment, I
assure you. I am fond of seeing and trying rfles of unconhinerits.,"
The officer left then aid'in a fe minutes"returned witl a riffs of exquisite
workmanship. The stock was richly carved andthe lack engraved wit figures
and implements of hunting. Anderson examined it with evident pleasure at.
though he took good care not to betray it.
" Fine workmanship, to be sure," he said with a mein half admiring, half?
doubting, but the finest guns are by no means the best ones.  "bid you ever
try this rifle of yours?"
Yes, sir, but only a few times. I have another for conminon use."
"B t you have no objections ilet the try it?"
Not the least, sir.'Or the contrary; I am rather anxi &amp;to see what such
a iece can do in hands like' ours."
"Then  let us go totork at once. I see the piece is loaded and I would-
rather have you fire thefiirst ihot-yourself. I am never sure of my aim unless
t. ram the bullet home myself"
Well, as you please ir_ And'erson. It makes ho difference whether my
wantof  skill leaks out a little sooner or liter. What do youi want me to fte at?"

40

-k f' 2.i, a' +       . gh                ,,                                                ',   ''   C   _. ,-               - "-yjl   #~', "  F a*ne   IA. 1'.   '    1'.r   ,
-                                                                                                              +-ar  k

Tt WitA b*?SE OF TlE  i EAvE.
"Why. Ihat inatttslittle.  o yo see that cro Wsitting in the tee about a
hndfed$'ds from herer
Wihd%*t  rther Ipre th ongnn raisdhedh rifle; ''ned id fireJ.The
odd eeliidMthi=ie-eport; and thecrow  et ltf eitig for a second with a
broken wing dropped frogi sight into the folia eabelow:
+Wedd i or eastern man and a        man. You must pardot my
" luttebutd   e:'eri nee .}ia taught    t the ha dling of the  nisket
generally spoils a fellow for the rifle."
4fBut my aeeuti thes  ord and not the musket," the Lieutend6osaidAwith,
a smile.
Yes, yes, I know aid diddt at alb mean fo detract ,from your tMerits, lpt
what Ilsai isnevertelasfde. F   foud  butfeW officers, who could boast
of being eveloynditiaif shots.
"fBut Mr. Sanders 'is hkaeutdepti "  er, is he not?"  Rose hiquitedi
SWell;yes. -Fr   Anbet-h  hl1dles the rifle dcornmor well. But here
it is ready for a second trial; it is my turn to shoot now and yours to set the
n .0k"
,  Exactly, and F shall choose one worthy of yourskjll.  Down order to-
ards the right, stands an old decayed peach tree with one solitary fruit on the
topmost branch. I know that I could not pretend to hit -itand'if'you think-'
Phe report otlhe rifle interrupted him. While tillinig he=li ad looked at the
peach intquestion'nd;therefore lbst sight dioAndetdn'snmovements- The scout
had lifted the gun carelessly and'ptill the -tigget, apparently without "takmg
aiti at ail. Ye't wten theeiettenantlooked intHe diection of the p'each ttfee
again; in order to ascertain;the result of the shot, the fruit had disappeared'
Rosy told him with a gay laiugh 'tat the bullet had sentit flyig-inevery9 di-
ledg
It was a pity too," she said,, and I could ali ost h'arse wished that}father'
had miissedit  Peaches don't seerito-be over=plenty here-id} fact,-it's aiys
tery how they come here at all. .The peach tree is not a native of these prts
"No child," Anderson replied. "In forneir days'there was aFretch Indian
tonsi ailitle way' below h1re, an froithat time to  ous the trees seem Ito ave
seeddlththsel9es as we find thti ya trte lneighborho6d. So y6 need
t..  ot fret about that peach. Ifs'you io r Rlo t'Campelf a°litde, hell go uiih
yotanoddut;a dieyotiachace t gather a baskt full: There he's ch
iin' no  ° as i toibigu he Would,# fOr he cinothear~tlie crack of a rifleiMithout
feeli imnitching 6, e present "
The youig hunter was indeed seen Walkineup'ti the grou  'th evi
detlydid4n6t'conrefrom his bed. '.'The wet coiid0oii1 of his  asifisand
leggi had atiine turkey 'dahglng!from' his hgtidst gound'etrayed a n
earl ecusioi i the woods. I.is ffce was ali tg bi and h'eefethin
punyWith endindefgod humor.  Depositing thg ndaa tthe fet of loa An
detsonghet aid:

.
:

ii
14
At'.   y
, r  r
t'L
2'
}

n w a -
4*v

3
I

{

I


48               THE WILD ROSN -OF THE BEAVER,
"I 'heard this fellow gobble in the woods,--.nd could not, resist the tepta-
tion of stealing out to make him pay the bill tor his own music s1pp sVise
Rose has eaten many a turkey, but may be none of nature's own raising;,'
Indeed, .I avP gt," the gi4 responded casting ai1dpc of a4iratip-at
f large id.  'Wat afnne big fllow it is.  Do you.ppect tqcnish im in
one sitting Mr. Campbell?"-
'Indeed; I do," he said a  ', "we are.notgiven to piqiig, ©oe vry
cl.an here. :Byt whatpis goi   here? , I heard several 4lotwhile emv -
way back to the Fort."
"Your gg didnot deceive you, Robert, and here is the piece we fred from.
What do y% think of it?"
Robert took the rifle with an admiring glance.;Iandling it with, the same
gase -which a lady evines, in playing ' thi her fan, he examinedall its parts
with the eye of a judge. . Aftet*listenin  he sharp click of the lock.and rais-_
ig the stock repeatedly to his cheek,  1 emphatically:"
rPerfect, as far as I can see; this is indeed a splendid gun. Are ,you the
lucky owner?"
"Yes, sir," the Lieutenant replied.  "Mr. Anderson has used it and pr-
nounced it good. I should be pleased to have you also try it and o"firm his
judgment "
"What have you shot at?"-
" A crow and a peach," the Ljeutenant replied. Anderson shook hlis head.
"sYou oughn't to have toldhim, Lieutenant,",he said laughing. "I kn owhe will
laugh at us. He'll consider that childsplay "
A barely perceptible smile had indeed played around Robert's lips at the men -
tion of the, above words. belt checking himself he said:
" I don't know about thatDavid. To hit a crow or,-a peach may be a dif.i-
cult' task and again 'a very easy one.  Miss Rose do you see anything that,
would justify the wasting of abullet?.'
Oh, yes, sir, I do. A good piece beyond the peach tre stands a largetre
with little balls on?"                                       getre
You mean the sycamore,7-j see it."
" Well, on the branch standing but against the river I see a single ball, quite
aiwav from all the others.,If yougan hit that, I shall be inclined to credit all
the stories the people tell each other about your skill in shooting,"
This was said in a tone in, which a trace of defiance was barely perceptible.  rt
The young girl was probablysppmewhat nettled at the skill manifested by these
foresters, because they showed themselves much superior to one in' whom she.
felt a dee   rest.  l eforgtt 'that. the young officer wouldhave come out
victorious  * dozen othtezigials, and that -he merely practiced as°patime
what the others followed asgaprofession. It annoyed her to see hj?  appear in"
an inferisor;character find it , gu's undoubtedly that gavea touch of aninos-
ity to her words. Robert se ed to notice it, for he cast at her a wondering
glance that made her blush. Then he raised his rifle with the determination

la  -

1

E WILD ROSE OF THlE B NER.                49
to disappgint her, for he seemed to feel instinctly that a failure would haye
gratifiedat    Raising the riflesslowly And carefully he pulled the trigger at
themiomen henIthe ball came into the line of vision. A shout of admiration
from the bystanders proclaimed his success. Even i Rose it overcame the
' previous' feeling of annoyance and the Lieutenant could :noltire of lauding his
extraodinary'skill.
'  must. confess, this goes beyond' my  rehension," he cried, andiI
would- give-a great deal to emulate such skill."
"- -    Oh-this is nothing, sir," Anderson exclaimed. "I have seen Robert split a
dozen bullets on the'blade of l;is knife, at the distance of a hundred yards."
"'I believe it, though I fail to comprehend it."
!Itis petty hard to comprehend;.  t difficult as it may appear Lieutenant,
the trueagrit of a man is only tested   ie contest' with another man, especiall
when that man happe  to have     per-colored skin, and there't is, where
the, merits of friend Robert  '  their true light. I tell you- "
"I tell you, David, that it' isn't becoming in a white man to brag about him -
selt or his friend either." Robert interrupted hins. "So, if you cannot desist
I'llago home: and help your sister get the coffee ready-I see her beckonig
ver yonder with all her might."
Anderson laughed
"Well, you shall have your way, Robert," he said, "so don't go away with-
out giving us another token of your skill. I wish you could show these people
how you pick away a dusky' Indian from behind-a tree, when you see no more
of him than what a copper cent would cover; but as that cannot be, shoot at
least somethin' that has life. -Bring down one of those gulls that skip albout
the river."                                                  z
Robert looked at him with a searching glance.
"Now David, if I did not know you well, I might harbor the thought that
you would catch md in a trap; To hit the'sycamore burr is child's play when
compared withthe shooting of a gull; They are nothing but bones and feath
ers and I verily believe a bullet might strike through the veyenter of'thei? body-
without hitting a vital part:
" Why, making' azspeech"a Anderson exclaimed  bile:ismile of satisfaction
passed over Rose's face. "- I know well that the=shot'i a ticklish onfe; but I
know also- that you have made it a dozen times and rreverfailed. What the:
in thein'me of goodness aie you afraid of?"
'1am not afraid, David,'andhalbtry'the shot; but antis one whe i hanc
nidy somvetimes~play us a trick, I thought it nut'fair to save my'  tion b4
giving'you a fair warning.' Give me. a solid mark and I a pretty 1 'e toy ht
it; but t  esegulls are most unsubstantial things."
During these'word Robert had not been idle  He had carefully meagur.
the powder constituting the charge of theigun,. and then{ rrnied down 'the,
letin the most careful manner. The pan'    were also subject to'a close
examination, and only when these mea       precaution had been taker.
X                   Y'1                                          "F,

w


i '
_z
h
t
"
5 '
t      i
i
3
v^i -
  ty   i
h
iJ t i

;
,
.
:.
f

, .
.
1
?   -     i
y
1
}
:     r5:                +hdw4SiMi3WAVi1 L.. +L.V  S'L3..+F -",s"s.YR-'u renS  :..,r.{  % 4...-uvs

3
k           '
I
t
y } t

f

go* HE t~)ROSE OF T E lE4 R.
Robert c'est his eye upon the river and began to look- fer aflt i tfor the
trial, towhigh the cunning of his colleague'had exposedahim.
" Look there!"  Anderson exclaimed, "that -White gull 'is  lost on anlevel
with us." ''
Robprt shook bis hjad. The 'uniformrok rtoffthe bird offered aa iin-
sufficient distinctness. So hel' the gull undisturbed, and aited tiegleec-
ind one with black wings ae  whitee bodypmade his=appeara ee  This was
at least fifty feet further  a  the first one, a circumstance to -which
Anderson called ,Robert's attention, when-the intentions-f4the .youngibunte
became manifest. He meiLely smiled, then.raising his gun:he-aimed and fired
in the previous manner, and with the same-startling success., 'he gullidnot
flutter, as wounded birds sometimes s.m to do, but esing its fight at
once, dropped dead in the water with lashh that penetrated even:to the ears
of the party on the bastion.
"Well, I won't say anything after this,'"Anderson excnimed.
"No, I think myself you had better not," Robert said,laughing-heartily; "'at'
least not before breakfast, for Mrs, Jones is making such spewing g stores of
impatience, that I for once lack the courage to continue here against her wishes
This turkey must help me make my peace with her, so good morning toglli" t

a.   ...Ls,.F"        .,y   ,s.--  ,_..._-.....--           ....- -ram- -"   ,r     -                         - '                                                         -

= f ,
_
-
-
,
t
,
=
.,
'
:  t

:/

-71                                                         --'' tciill il                                                ii

t        g

.

-                                  _              r

T      I  IROSE O"T" ilE rVER.                5
A ma      t  hatst twomenibers'of bis' family by Indin deviltries, is not
tpto e     "hichildcailolie danger' he=said.
4h  t, r   Anders n, ifithereais reaIly' fr danger in gping .to the woods.
yoiotiht noto d    ydauetto leav=thie Fort at all;"
"Nzorawroid I udr ordinary circuimstances but with Robert Canpbell 1
verilfelievether is-no danger wahhtevgre  nVer knew th Iridian that d 1
succeed ivcreepin' within fifty-yards .of'him, a   he not aware of it. He must
hv the power of scenti ' them, else r Ian 'at a total loss to comprehend it'.
Thtia;-if Rose'wanted to visit thebwoodsAshe had to do-so in the compahiy of
Robet or stay: at home.  Now, shecoundiot ddny, that, unfdr ordinary cir-
cumstanees, this would havebeen a very disagreeable condition; for she was
compelled to adtrit; that ambig her male acquaintance, of the pist or present.
fewould conpareinpoint ofbeauty  haracter or skill in their 'vocation with
the yng hunter. Unfortunately thitre was another youth neat, ho ever, who
possessed her affections, antherefore in her- estimation outranked the other in
everyiaccontplishment, exceptingg the use of the rifle,
Thefact, that -to him her: father= would deny, what was granted to 'th-
otherewithout apetitiun, was calculated to produce an antipathy, ihich' oth-
erwi e would hardig have existed. If, Rose, neverthelesss continued td accept
the attention&amp; the scout, .it was partly because her desire of heing out way
stronger than'her, dislike, and -partly because she managed to drawaher lover
into the participation of a pleasure, which' she was prevented from 'er oying
with'hirn alone. That =the relation between Caripbell and Saiders di not im-
prove-rundei'these circumstances, ntay be readily imagined. A persori not initi
ated in tle custom  of the frontier might deem it stinge that=ve'pleak'f any
intecourseatall betweeA an ofider and a mere scout, a chdrader,  twha
resert'ling the-light skir"nishers ef the present day. Yet so impi-t  s thi
in a warywit the willy Indiartand'in such high esteem wir th'e oc  ants o
it-held inestitmatioi that an offier 'was hardly thought to lower hiisefby as-
sociating with the hunter-and the scout, especially, when as in thi irnstanIe, ii{
universal affection and esteem of 'the garrison was centered on the naai. Sa'n
ders as: we' haveseen, regarded the scout in the light of a rival, and, in 'a cer-
tainis enl5e4gwith good reason. He-kneW'fromi Rese, that heri'father had madh
repeated allusion concerning his desire for a ennection between.her aind Roh.
te tandherannouncenent,'that his hints=had lately gained in' pointedness an
trequeny;"was not-'caieulattad to'diminish himr uneSifrs  ~Trfe, e' h'ad n
reasonato doubte-Rose's fidelity; but there was no telling what theaitern dictat:
of a'unyielding father might:accomplish. Thus farFCaimpbeIl had brn hin
seli.Fith oommendable moderation; but the- fear, that he'migIht sooner or later
benefit'iby;het advantages -of hisposition', not only torrmented'the Lieutenint,
but'.also blinded him-in;a measure :to themrits of his induiugent rival.
4ad-Robert?   He-labored all-the while under a confusion of sensation, whi
prrevented him from understanding himse     makes it' therefore surely e
cusable-in ushis biographers, to labor un -  Te difficultV. Of ohe this,

...                     _w_ .ra  r yw,,.x      ev,       .w,.    rw^s ,''  °"                   i       ,.n. .. ~x.                                      dk,,,M             3    '                            +.     .T'is?      .r  a   ?ia  sbr"s.%.mr+tv..6.     rs..kwr-va ti6.;kiitwv."i's., ..'iavc;=   t... ...
mom
.,            . ;";_ "               .               .'x         ' "eSr'     s ,,..«,.   ~ ., :IM-77- 77.7              s u   ITa77'7F'r

CHAPTER VI.
A SCUFLE WITH 'BRUIN.
-      Life. in the fort was so monotonous, that a tew weeks siffied to initiatethe
two womeu in their duties, and also disclose to:them the scope of alltherpleas-
ures which they could reasonably expect. Grace positivelyrefusedto leavethe
stockade, and was therefore reduced to the pleasure, )which a woman cail find,
*       in the fuliillment of her duties, and the intercourse with those-whom destiny
throws in her way.  Rosa fared a little better. Her father, in consequence f ;
his frequent scouting expeditions would know tolerably-well when a walk'ixthe
woods was fraught with danger, and when not; but even underthe-most-fa  {
xorable irumstances she was -strictly forbidden to leave-the Fort; when duty
or otht4eircumstances prevented Robert from accompanying -her, 'Lieuteaant
Sanders had repeatedly prayed for the removal of this restrictiortbut tQ no pur
pose.  Anderson told him that he did well enough tor, an officer, and would
no doubt sooner or latter make a right good frontiersman.  Attpresenthouw
ever, he thought the Lieute4   s more severviceable within than without
the lart,

4t
tit
br  P
P.
i
6a 'I
t  14
1.'


m
.,
t
_,
' +_
E
--
3

5s -'&amp;THE S                 OSE OF TEE W AVER. -
he was sure-the affection for his Indian bride, though deeply burie i his heart
had not only not lost its intensity; but even gained in arder. Pe4  the very.
nec ssity of this secrecy was instrumental sin keeping the recollection of the
lovely'Delaware girl so bright in his bosom..#We have already stated that the
trontiersmen held the Indian in supreme contempt and that the mere announce-
mRit of a nuptialconnection witl a girl of that race would have exposedob-
ert Campbell to such an amount*fraillery, as to make his position entirely un -
tenable.  In his first enthusiastic acceptance of the fair girl's proposal, he had
not thought of this difficulty; but on reaching his friends and comrades he be-
came aware of , and praised the thoughtfulness of the Wild Rose; which had
indeed deprived him of the pleasure of her company, but also saved herself
from many a painful collision, which even he could not have totally averted.
True, white men would in many instances associate with Indian women, with-
out the formal ceremony of matrimony"hut Robert on the one hand was too
pure for such a practice, which from the ignorance~of the civilized habits on the
part of Wild Rose, might have been practicable, and on the other he bore too
deep and ardent an affection for that maiden to, insult her memoryEby even the
thought of such a step. No, she was too pure and lovely, to be drawn into the.
mire of the world and while he rejoice in her good sense, that had given him
time to make. the necessary preparations for her reception to his heart and
bosom, he was fully resolved to give her in his future home the sacred position,
of a christian wife.
While these feelings continued in the deeper current of his heart, others of a
rather contradictory nature floated on the surface.  They had all sprung from
the arrival of Rosa Anderson, the daughter of the man, who up to the moment
of his recent love, had held the warmest place in his heart, He and kobert
pursue   k same vocation, hunted the same game, scoured the same- woods
for theaije dusky foe and in spite of their disparity of years, shared such a
resemblance of opinions, hopes and aspirations, that a firm friendship must.
needs be the unavoidable result.
l.Rosa was the only object they had thus far not owned in common and the
desire of Anderson to see his friend and daughter united in wedlock, is suffi-
cient evidence that he was willing to share with him the greatest treasure in his-
possession.
Before Rosa's arrival he had spoken about her only in general terms; but
since this event his allusions had become so frequent and his hints so pointed
that Robert labored under a constant.embarrassment.  He could not think of
revealing to his'friend his relation to the Indian girl, and consequently could
not explain to him the impossibility of listening to his proposals. So he simply
contented himself with preserving a total silence on the subject, never dream-
ing that Anderson would construesthis silence as diffidence and bashfulness,
which could and must be overcome by frequent allusions to and conversations,
un the subject. In that way.'t situation of the young, hunter became more
emburassm; every day, for  t rupture with Anderson, which amutual

4

53

e   nation was almost sure to bring a out, there was the dislike of.the daugh-
teandthe jealousy-of the Lieutenant* Rosa and her opinion were by no means
indifferent to our friend. ° He had fpm the beginning conceived a liking} for.the
beautiful and clever girl, which -ght have-changed :intolove; if he had met
her before instead of after the ad entire related in:the-first chapter of this story.
We ae:creatures rof circumstances and the much :talked of 'decrees of tate
mostly}dwindled into the results of circumstances, when we examine them
through the microscope QI truth.- Robert imagined he discovered in the daugh-
ter of the scout a softer image of the Indian girl; her beauty, intellect and-char-
acter tempered as it were by civilization.. Even the name remi ded him of the
Wild Rose and he loved to hear and pronounce it:. He looked at the young
girl in the Fort, much as We look at a mirror reflecting the traits and features
of one we lve.
Under these, circumstances we need not wonder, that the young man con-
geived a warm.affection for Rose, and was considerably nettled at the indiffer-
ence'she manifested towards him.  Man is at best a strange enigma. While
our friend feared, and endeavored to.check the disposition ofthe father to be-
stow upon him the hand of the daughter, he was at the-same time eager, in a
measure; to   the daughter's good wi# although her-coldness'increased just
in proporti  o his eagerness., He had a pretty accurate .idea of the relation
between. Rosa anil the Lieutenant, and he felt a pang of jealousy without lov-
ing-her. Perhaps this was not fair, nor approaching the noble and exalted feel-
ing we love to. read about; but I repeat it, that I draw a picture, and that he-
who- expects no dross in. the composition of human nature, however noble,
shows a sad want of human knowledge, Robert did not love Rose Anderson,
but he would not have objected, to have been .a little loved by her. Nor
-    could fe get himself to look with favor upon o man who ventured t&amp;-spire to
something that ha4 been set aside for him. B ides it was mortifying to think,
that- Rose had bestowed her affections on the l ieutenant in preference'to him,
forgetting the all important circumstance, that she, like him,/had fixed her
choice before he entered into competition. 'Be this as it may, there is no de-
nying -the fact, that Robert Campbell, regarded the Lieutenant with rather, an
unfavorable eye, and the. only thing we can ,ay in extenuation is, that he was
not more than half way by the latter.  Rose saw the growing animosity be-
tween the young men,.and in spite of the natural gayety of her 'disposi'on, she
could not help viewing the future sometimes with gloomy forebodings. Noe
were her father's-continual discourse on the merits -of the hunter calculated ti
improve her :humor, and so the six months following her arrival at the Fort
were less fraught with comfort and happiness than everybody had anticipated.
True the glorious-season of the fall has nany a pleasant walk into the forests.
Rose had witnessed= the hunting. of the'turkey and the deer; she had with
Robert-alone, or occasionally in company of both- the hunter and Lieutenant
paid visits to the old-Indian town, situatedabout half a mile below the Fort,
and showing .the ruins of many on-ce substantial houses. At some places the

'4'

THE WIWI? ROSE OF THE 3AVER.

- -    'q.r n.,&amp;F c-,-        ,.,...,              ,..e x...                    s, z° u ,..Mr-  r, .,~    -_-_  _   _' AG'           "_.:.s, . _ci t  '       .a:       %'3@     r -'                     ^y..?ir e~r     ,   ;:
-'eg  uCr=,4     .      -qr n,  ^+-+o  y, -. 3-w"wr  ..aa "o..5^txa  nr( ,N, Y.. v. r" .   '.isn. -"o T'! :   r .i'Mf      {k.1Sr$4 61y  ''   -   k  e- f k K' '4-_t        -.... r         -    -   a     ,           +            _

. ..r. ;

rlvii-:77." fml ' Wt,

4
4   s
 id
z  t4


I
r
I

wooden. walls were still standing, thoughready to tumble at the, slig's"1
touch: at others nothingabut til nakedelimneys# loined front 'theweedsand
brushwood, telling: a thelancholy' tale of the perishable nature of everything
emanating from thelhand ofinan.
The woods around the Fort abounded with wild fruit of evety description .
Besides th'e peaches gross' ing on the seedlings we have mentioned, thereve
wild plums and grapes, and 'various sorts. of nuts in the greatest abunddaice.
Robert and Anderson had made maple sugar in the spring, and a considerable'
store of it being still on hand, Grace and Rose tried their hands at'preserving,:
the scarcity ofgears alone limited their industry in this direction. Anddrson
much enjoyed the increased comforts of his household.! H  alone seemed to be
blind to the clouds gathering on the horizon of his domestic sky. When the
tea which his sister had brought with her was exhausted, he expressed such-
regret that Grace was "obliged to have recourse to such experience as her for-
iner frontier life had given her. , She sent her brother to the woods-Ito gather'a
plentiful supply of wild strawberry leaves, telling him that she intended to dry
them and during the comingwinter make tea of them, strawberry leaves being
an excellent substitute fot thie genuine article. It was amusing, to -see how
readily he entered into her plans, and[f the members of the h ,P hold had
been versed in ancient lore, the picture ofHercules spinning-at t  t of Om+
hale would undoubtedly have risen before their vision. In his leisure hours
he helped to lay up great stores of nuts and fruit-,and when Grace complained
of the scarcity of vessels-for preserving purposes, he went to the commander of
the post and begged him to order, at the scout's expense; such a quantity' of
stoneware to be brought down the river in the next 'flatboat ,that the Captain
wondered and laughed at his extravagance. This, however, failed to'annoy
the-scout, who probably thought that two householdswould require supplying
before long.
In Anderson's presence tlie whole family-in which Ve have to -include Rob-
ert-put on their gayest faces, -Grace, with true womanly instinct, would have'
soon divined the condition of her neice's heart and the state of -aftairs arising
therefrom; but, Rose from the beginning had made her.a cdnfident;i, Grace had'
of course, shared the civilities of' the Lieutenant on the journeyyand' conse-
quently conceived a friendship for hini, which induced her to' receive the over- \
tures , ler neice with complaisance, and assume:the character of a protectress.
ftheiriove. Knowing her brother, and perceiving, with a woman's instinct,
thtt an open avowal or direct opposition to his .wishes would not answer, she
managed, with considerable skill and seeming undesignedness to advocate the'
interests of the Lieutenant.. Nor had she a difficult. task, for: Lieutenant San-
ders was in every respect a worthy young man; and as time passed away, the
prejudice which the scout entertainedagainst the =order wore-offin favor of the
individual. He was glad to receive the Lieutenant in his house, for in:thelong
and dreary hours of wirgpr evenings the. young-man contributed his share to
-enliven conversation, by droll stories of his- own eastern experience, They

4{5

TIE  WILD ROSF 1OF TAR: B ~AV L'

54 1.

L
i'
i
t
F

'"
f§

:                                                          ' "                                                                                                                                       ,                                                                                _                                                                                        -

T1LE WILD IR(OSEF T'iE AVZ.

F i. a   -F  eS:P-mMr}s.:utr^r S'k . ..I-a +Awe  r-"st-a.. i .s           w+-              -. -vw    -      +..             r

x,.-.,
.  .       F _r+-                r-,        tea..   , ,               _ .        M.i.. .,      _.+      _   .., ._.,.  ..-..Cc       .e mot -:      ;A."-   t=4aw..      ,  W 'cw.i  rti#-.,h";R°t °x41' j.:  . aiirM ,.y . r7.    d_ air            ;."$' 'v ,;  a.fH - :w.:S' ",k .-',e§'= '
s

+      d the thers-in proportion.to'tlheir-novely, and}had About thesame effect
J4,ve Andedso~nas the peruse of a bookoffaily_.talestaothe town bred
Quth. :Rohertampbell was mI, of a shojar, and consegtently snore proof
gajst thespie actual charra of  Lieutena t, ystve he denkloft.yholly
resist gthe attraction,,though the, p Bence of theyoubg oflicerwould regularly
nake iw   gi rgnRose,'othe other hand, wouldbright n ,poh such occa-
sion ; for the ,andthere her lover appeared toa good advantage,,excelling, as
s1 ethopght, thetherin wit,ntellect and kno &amp;ledge. -t=was easy for her to
« ome tois co otisidn forRobertIas we havesaid' before, consistently ab-
stained frer _mingng:in ,the conversation excepting.an occasional remark.
Thi;was not;ho   eer-frdir, Want Of.knowledge, for like many of his profession
he had adopted itfrom choice, arid only.aftershaving:receivedthe benefit of-a
4goodie r-est education:  Since tpat,, of course, he had not lost muchof. his
knowledgee in he rough. stitringlife -he led; 'but it is witha.good education.as
'with, the-cuttingsof ;a diamond;-that once acconplished,itsluster :willendure.
Ifdust-aad.dirt:settles on the:surface a good rubbing willbremovethem. Rob-
ert 'might therefore have:easily7competed ,with hip rival if heyha onlyffelt-the
inclination. Instead of that he remained-silent or at most.said but little; this
little, how ea beinggenerally of a darcistic nature:directed against the Lieu,
,tepaaIt,n  dculated:to widen :thegap-between them.  Jakirig each of these
temarks'   arately they -seemed innocent enough and Andbrson.enjafbed thetxf,
* bec use they were uttered byzhis favorite.against'a-man who vAs a member df
4thelother (order,-which he:considered with;supercilious contempt. The fLieu-
tenant-howeVer felt them keenly, and;harborerbthemnforfilnal settlerhent_,which
to A1llappearances could riot bedelayed much lordger.
Chistnias had broughtfthe +usual festivities ind New Year their rene.Wal
The aen had brewed themselves good glass'tf =punch and'the-wstineihaked
the customary cakes, rand between the iuhchan the cakes, thef;ine turkeys,,
haunches of venison and smoked-b'er' meatiournfamily hadtno't only apnaged
to enjoy-themselves very.well for the;time being,-but-also taken-softer feeling
ihto the new: year. Robert had been(less iarcastic and more communicattie
arid when the Lieutdnantitowardsthe end =of January'_propose'aobmmon bear
hunt graciously gave his approval.,The too'hudters ,started sodanrfter sunris
in company with a couple oftdogs. 'There wasAS dayer of snow  n the gr'ugid
just: deepsenough to show thetracks of the hear inncasehehad.been ont durn
the night.  His general abode was'in Alittleas esit ftediabout.halfa  §'f
from .the mouth of whatlis pow called Bradfstuh.  The Liettenant had
lentally-met him.the day before'whileAleadingaScouting patty ofsoidiers
had' been drawn out by a false alarm of ladians!bein tin that neighborkotbd.
'The bear had taken'to:his heels and escaped into his den, wherethe Lieuttart
had been-obliged to leave him onaccpunt of piessing'duties. It=as the com,
munication- of these factsthat had brought- abtuttthe expedition.  the Iei
tena-, as the one best acquainted-'ith thc abdde of the animitlj led the 'Why.
It was'a fine     morning. The-air was still and bracing and the tepera

SI S
I I.
t s
a    t j
i#4  y4

y;
'            iF

ri
cf
d j    }
i
71P'.^-"'        .A.:O+.-- .,.- -v+-         .,-.-s+aw. l   _-     :r 'e r'N           'Jj y _  =         aT        '- -               ' C'"-


56               THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.
ture just low enough to keep the snow from melting. When they reachedhe
ravine, into which the hole opened, thepbsence of all tracks proved to a ce'-
tainty that Mr. Bruin was safe at' home. The dogs got the scent and became
restless, barking at the hole. Robert told' e. Lieutenant to get his rifle-ready
nd then encourage the dogs to enter. The two men took their positions a lit-
tle up and down the ravine, the opposite ledge being too steep for even a bear to
climb. Meanwhile the dogs had kept upa furious barking,;rushing in and out
of the cave in their eager endeavors to arouse and attack their enemy. All at
once the bark of one of them changed into a howl and the hunter saw him jump
from the hole in as great a haste as an injured leg would allow him.
"Now watch, Lieutenant," Robert cried, " the bear has broken Nero's leg.
He is surely up and I should not be surprised to see him out."
The words had scarcely been spoken when two bears instead of one-trotted
from the entrance of the cave and at the sight of the hunters began to growl in
an angry manner. They saw that their retreat was cut oft and for a moment
seemed to hesitate as to the best course to pursue. When, on a sudden, they
wheeled towgrds the left, in the direction of the Lieutenant and tried to make their
escape down the run.
The ravine was rather narrow and Robert began to fear for the-safety of the
Lieutenant. He would gladly have fired and thus dispatched onrsf the bears,
but as they turned their rear towards him, he could not reach a vitdl spot with
his bullet. At this moment the Lieutenarit fired and thereby for a moment
checked the progress of the animals.  One of the bears was evidently badly
wounded. for he began to growl in the most savage manner and rising on his
hind legs marched towards the young officer with his jaws apart and his fore-
feet extended for a friendly hug. The other bear imitated his example, thereby
exposing the vital spot, where the neck joins the back. Quickly the scout rais-
ed his rifle and fired,-and tie report had hardly died away when the bear fell,
expirinalmost at the same moment. Robert, however, took no time to-exam-
ine him for the other bear had meanwhile closed with the officer. Fortunately
the man made no efforts toward him off, or the wounded animal might have
badly torn his shoulders in the attempt to draw him in a deadly embrace. Too
brave to run; the Lieutenant had,'on the approach of the bear, drawn his hunt'-
ing knife andjtabbed him in the belly. His want of experience, however, had
caused him to miss the right spot and.the stab apparently had no other effect
bul to increase the fury of the animal. Hugging the Lieutenant, it endeavored
j ,tgc strangle ,hirm to death, and,,as the handle of the -knife had broken off in the-.
Spressure,leaving the young man defenceless, there is no knowing how success-
ful its attempts might have been wi t  the interference f the scout. Run
ne                                teing up to fhe strugglinghcouple he drove his knife up to e hilt into the bear,
piercing his heart and causing him to relax his grasp almost instantaneously.
In so doing he fell, drawing the Lieutenant to the ground. Robert, however,
seized him by the arm and helping him to arise inquired in anxious tone ''heth-
er he warhurt.
f                                                      1s ~

THE WILD ROSE ,0F THE WEAVER.               57
"#No, I am not," replied the young officer, drawing a deep breath, " but I
haye an idea I soon-would have been without your tirmely interference. I am
indeed deeply indebted to you and may-congratulate myself for not having un-
dertaken this adventure alone."
-Welly : dont know. If youhad been alone, the, avenue would not have
been barred:and the bears would certainly have endeavored to give you the \
slip. The trouble was, that we only looked for one bear and yet found two.
That was almost too much of a blessing."
"And what arewe going to do with these fellows?"
"I think we had better skin and, quarter them and hang the meat into the
trees. We can then, at our leisure,-get assistance from the Fort to remove it."
"So we can.. The men will be glad ;enough to get a chance at bear meat."
.This programme was followed out and from that day a better understanding
seemed to prevail between the two young men. There was no verbal expla-
nation, nor did the connection ripen into a friendship. They spoke to one an-
other occasionally, hunted together and thus passed through the latter part of
the winter more-pleasant than the first. The Lieutenant meanwhile perrected
himself in the art of hunting and woodcraft generally, and more tan once by
his aptness and docility drew ,words of praise (rom the lips of Anderson, yho
seemed not only- to have conquei-ed his dislike, but even conceived a fondness
for the young man.
When. the first signs of mild-weather showed themselves, the family iade the
most extensive preparations for the manufacture of maple sugar. In the leis-
ure fours of winter Anderson and CampYbell had-cut and hewed troughs, des-
tined to receive the sweet liquid and their example had proved contagious to
many of the soldiers. So when the sugar time arrived, the whole garrison 'vas
thrown into commotion. Hundreds of trees were tapped and every kitchen of
the Fort was stripped of ;buckets and kettles to carry and boil'down the pre-
cious liquid, nature's spontaneous offering. The rilt wa in proportion to the
S fort. Never before had so much sugar been manufactured in the fort. The
shelves of: Anderson's kitchen showed large cakes without number, and as the
first bateau. coming down the river'after the Opening of navigation brought the
ordered jars and jugs, the face of Grace shone with ecstasy of delight, and ,the
was incessantly laying her plans for the preserving of immense quantities of
/ every description of fruit attainable'in that neighborhood. Wit these prepa-
rations and speculations time flew rapidly, and before the family was fully
aware of it every vestige of winter had disappeared and a thin veil of pale green
begun to adorn the woods. Spring always gladdens the heart of man, :nd so,
it could not fail that at its arrival tho Fort assumed a gayer aspect. To increase
the gladness of its inhabitants, the above mentioned flatboat also brought the
news of the surrender of Cornwallis. It was rather late, the surrender having
taken place fully six months before; but that did not prevent the garrison from
enjoying. it as much. The six pounder was fired and the forest made to ring
with its report and the cheers of the men. 'Everything bore the aspect f u

1
r       I    r
i e
.iB     t
t   3

06

E

-a.? }..'r'i6..yipF    l!!MF. a    __ .  e                   ....c.;.. ...,'      _          "h-=:-%..=+..,.cc.    -.1w', ..a.r               --    - ^w ,....:                                 , -          -           -
y :, _, , ,. y^'4ycr' . :cr+"' -- .-.        . iz.-. L :x. ,   .wsi  ° ,.. , a  : .,,.  ...._w.  ,..rte .. ,: a  ...   u.... _ _-  ,i ,.. . --.    ..        a         _. .    _                     r

t  Y :a....-,

_ ,


___     _______                            UL2 t       -   -~

.
Z
I
t
f       rV ,,
x
t
'
f
3
{k
1
_         ;
y
t
d
.°k
r  r  Z
i
a
_     a
'F
4
2
i

i
F
3
k
1
y
X
}t
1}}
x#A
2
'

- CHAPTER VIII
AN EXCUSABLE MISTiAR ,
In tas in the early part of April; when at the break of dawn teutenant San-
ders left the Fort, He had the evening before obtained leave for a day's ab-
sence, without'stating to any one the nature of his errand, While oituthateday
with a party of soldiers 'some three miles up the river, he -had lotid dbte
large footprints of an animal on the moist ground near the bank and onn'iir
learned froA his men 'that they originated with a panther. A panther  I '
had never seen, much less hunted this animal, and the stories which the sol-
diers told about its ferocity and strength fiJled him with the burning'desire to
meet and conquer it. a So when one of his companions told him that athicket
near the river, about two miles further up, was 'the usual abode of-a large pan,
other, he at once forhied the resolution to o tit in search of 'it: In the bear
hunt Robert Campbell had borne of the palm, while the Lieutenantihad run the
greatest risk and in order to-avoid aerepetition of this undesirable division he
resolved to keep the risk and the glory both for himself this time. However,
he had !n idea, that th- reaping of dlory was by no  s a cCr'in thing.
"     L~it   I r

4(6

T44 Wm4 z P5os Q~' =T1I° PWR:

59

holiday ahd the c intaidir ordered he-i-ion s bfood.and driik, cotxn  on
such occasions, to bedirtibuted. Or frlnds, thh segut  I'teee bteaftery
noonsumhmoned to his tuartehe arid ttee iifotiied that Ge  A= Mciit tish
would,.in the course of the summer, estabji h his it1adui  hait ed Frt4for
the barpose of making aitreatf with .t1iWWLte rt  ndiaim ie tbl l therf that
thie six Natiozrs had already siini ed their readine l to h e id the con 'ethnee
and that by them word had been sent to the Delawares and Shniaese. These
tribes would no doubt sooner or later setid ait anWer' t  the Fort, ahid'he
charged the scouts to exercise the proper vigilance it oder- tO lea'thFe arrival
of a messenger or ascertain in-the apyro'c- of a larger body of Indians inthe
neighborhood.-
With these instructions they were dismissed, a circ nstarce remindfing us of
the' propriety of also diitissing thie chapter, in ifsch the reader has dnily re-
ceived the outline sketch of the winter's proceedings.  Although void of excit'
ing incidents it shows the secret vorkihg ol the seninints tlliig the hearts of
the principa- persons of'thlis story and therefore could nof well be left ot with-
out depriving the reader of the link connecting the ad enfures of the first chap-
ters with abhers still in store, the narrative of which we"now begin * thout
delay..

p      -                              II  4 - - -   - }-T    J'-,  "-  -'

3

.
I
}t

-

"41
I.'

be resolved to keep hisistantids aeret t il he could -Whib t the skin and the
glaws tT pauter gga qphy.
Da of tbe slfude/je p         4lhis way th'ia gh the woods and alppg
the banks of' the Beaver as rapidly as possible, 'nly followed by:-ai .old half lame
dog, t4:sane thbas.ll4  ' u      a Iy by thedear 4nd since that encoun-
ter gconceived a strong affection for the officer, perhaps in return for the kind
nursing  yhich. lebad the -eteied at' l.s abnids. Silently the two:followed
the river bank until they passed the rapids, Then the original carelessness of
t .Liegn a t    aoged no;igilance n'r#:oiig-crefully arpuid for tracks
respMpbling th sece l 4 iFcged yesterdJy, he slow1y'proceeded oi his way.
The dog had by this time taken the lead, but fora considerable time failed to
givegiggs ol any gamewAl eve', whet a at once ie stopped and with an
eager:grawl tranq to &amp; snalAthicket standing sn a harp bend of the river.
Being 'flo   r twogi deshythe stray t and ppthe tlzitd by a small inlet or
bayou, ::e.small thicket was only accessible from the fourth, a narrow:strip of'
land corning :n+ ipguta few"large trees  As-tie Lieutenant was stand-
ing on this srip he .nItrt4ned' the.well founded hope to  eut off the retreat of
the gaingelproyid %he -al g' the  og was Pot a false One. ,True, thetins
ther-if such it was-could leap into the river; but the water was deep an t6ie
current rapid and if' the panther possessed only 'a ,nall amount of the
strength and eqrena aivArded-ehi op. nl 1 sidsethere Was:hut~littldedanger
of his attempting a retreat without a show of fight.
The dog n    we  eapproachecd Ahe thi ket with-growling signs of an angry
excitement, : =til:? regc edhfe Alerse pr4'ergrovth  'There he barked furi-
ously w boat howeyv ralncing any f-r'her,in spite of theencouraging words
of the  igutepgnt.  last th°young m  n grely inpatieht.
" Well, you stupid rute,he exclaimed rather angerly, "it you can not chase
him out, I suppose Ii4l have to 4o its myself:  So stand aside, Nero; stand
aside, I say.
heigamu held at hay i the thicket. se ?med to be capable of understanding
these words, for no sooner had the Lieutenant ceased speaking them,.when the
bpshes=were pushedaide an a figure stepped.into the inore open neck, which
made the young officer start in surprise. He came to hunt a panther and now
t od before him the human pantherof these woods,;infinitely more dangerous
k    -aihe (ir 1egged;aniial-t--"the demiby,, vage rndian."
This was the first time Sanders had stood face to face.with a hostile Indian,
and  n t        ihe first 4idoyey befelt Mch irwlined to raise his gup.and without
cermopy spagh so; 4pgero san. adversary.. Still 'he Indian scented so
pexe'ly gralss--tigssa.yutrto not niore'than siteen summers--that the
officer again. chopped thebarrelrafhist gun, merely keeping it in readiness for
an emerggny. The Ihlantws rat: m edi or, if so, had.concealedhis weapon
fr nvsight. With pa gveof his handjand.a graciousnmile aon his countenance
he saluted the white man, saying in broken English;
" Me g.od'Induin-nfrother n shoot."

;,                               _                   r                                                                                                                                      _
s, ,Y            k ,5                                               , .
' y             ,{
ew'f Tl' '%  a"?$' 'H A C1Y+'f a z:K vi.r:-ia .. .w 7 «.arawe s+vw..r. ", "Y .. aa1U+ +w .. _y. c.;aWW .e.c..r...s  .,.... ...   _ _ _                                               T    _

t -TIM-WILD ItOOE Of' n tt- Aft .

IT1
} 44
Lr I
I.~
~t  i
1  1
-  1i
J P  i
"   1 k :


6

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVE.

Brother? As, yes, exactly, I recollect that you are all one great big family
out here. Brother let it be then, and if one of your propositions is correct, I
suppose the other will not be far wrong either. You look young and innocent
for it anyhow."
The Indian seemed merely to have. understood a part of the last sentence;
at least he replied to it only..-
"Me no young."  he said gravely; me young warrior now-great warrior
soon!"
"Granted, Mr. Indian, as contradiction is a violation of goodbreeding. Yes,
sir,.granting all that, I might take the liberty perhaps of asking you the ques-"
tion: What are you doing here?"
" Me here home; this Indians land," he said with considerable emphasis.
"Aye, aye! that assertion can hardly be gainsayed. But then having for-
feited your claims by emigration, I must repeat the question: What are you
doing here?"
The Indian saw from this repetition that his reply was not satisfactory.- So
shrugging his shoulders, he said very coolly: " Me take a little walk."
little walk?  Why I know no Indian settlements twenty miles around
here."
Was not, but will be! Indian come make peace."
" Ah, is that the way! Still your people would hardly choose so young an
envoy, would they?"    .
",No! Indian no send me. Old man on way-me come alone."
"That's what I expected., But you have not answered my question yet; if
you cannot satisfy me as to your intentidns, you must follow me to the Fort."
This the youth did not relish. He shook his head, Iaying eagerly: " No
Fort! me good Indian, good friend of white man!"-
Of course you say so-still I am doubtfulwhether I can believe you."
"Yes, believe. Me friend, me run if like."
"I guess not, my friend,"\ the Lieutenant replied drily. " My gun would
soon put a stop to that."
"No, no, leaves thick, water deep. The Red Fox creep and swim. He
gone much long, if wanted."
" And why didn't you then, my good friend?"
"Yes, good friend! much good friend. Me see brother, me like him. So y
come out speak, shake hands."
With these words and a genuine smile on his regular, well proportioned fea-
tures, he stepped nearer to the other and extended his hand with so much good
grace and unmistakable uprightness, that the Lieutenant felt ashamed to show
any more distrust. He received and shook the young Indian's hand and said:
" My young friend is welcome. Hashe any'of his people with him!"
"iNo, Red Fox all alone. Him sly and cunning. Him creep through little
hole."
Well, I guess so; but have you no gun with your"  -

f
1i
i  i

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BAVER.                61
"No, -e take no gun. Me see big game, me want shoot!"
"Ant1 why shouldn't you shoot?"
"Too much white man, not all good, some bad. Hear Red Fox shoot--
come, take-scalp."
"Well, yes, that might be the case. But, tell me Red Fox, have you seen
no sign of a panther here?"
" Yes, me kill one.",
"The deuce, you did! How could you kill a panther without a gun?"
" Me knife, -stickshim in belly.now,"
With this he pointed to the thicket,
"In'there?" the astonished officer inquired. " You are making sport of me.
"No sport-all earnest. Come see!"
After this laconic invitation he stepped into the bushes and parting them ex-
posed'to view the body of a full sized panther, which had evidently come to
death by wounds inflicted with a knife still sticking in the body.
" And you are not even wounded?"
"No wounded-just scratched" he said with a smile, exhibiting a gash on
his arm, for which many a dandy of modern times might keep 'his bdfor
weeks.
"An ugy scratch, indeed, my boy," said the Lieutenant with muchni re
sympathy in his voice than before. "Come, let me bind it up a little better."
The Indian seeing the kind intent, at once offered his arm, which the Lieu-
tenant bandaged as well as he could. This done he said; " You are a fine
lad that's sure, and I hardly know whether I am more pleased with your bra-
very or vexed at your interference with my calculations. Are there no more
panther's about here?"
"Not very near; but me give skin to Blue Coat; me only want claws."
"Ah, you are smart enough, I see. You can more safely brag with the claws
than with the skin. However, I accept your present and'may as well proceed
without delay to'secure it."  -
- The Indian helped the Lieutenant, and in a few minutes they had severed
the skin from the carcass. .It was, bleeding some yet and so the young man
hung it on tie low branch of a tree to let the blood drip off. This required
some time and the walkhaving sharpened his appetite, he seated himself on ai
$   old log lying close by and inviting the Indian to his side, offered him a portion
of his breakfast. The Red Fox accepted the bread and steak" with a good
enough grace; but the Lieutenant's flask with whisky, brought a perfect radi-
ance of happiness on his face. When Sanderssaw it, he at once handed the
bottle to his new friend who put it to his.mouth and emptied it of part of its
contents with a readiness, showing either considerable skill or great relish.
When the Lieutenant noticed it, a thought struck,.him. Receiving the.bottle
from the Indian's hand, he merely pretended to take a dram, leaving in 'reality
the whole contents to the Indiani who managed to finish it in the very short
period o fifteen miitates. It was go'd strong whiskey, and as the fi k &amp;y

,
3 ' G ;

-

I

_                    _                                                                                                                                                      -                                                                                                                -
,                                                                                                              -

9

J     _

r
k     A
y,   T
14'
,F  F
a  7
II V


I
LI
S
i

Tsl- WID ROSE .OF  r'     VERt

gained fully a pint, the young Indian soon'began to show signs pf a growing
-      intoxication. For this the Lieutenant had nly waited 1  ra frap bhp any
secrets he might possess and would never re eal inany other
VWhat tribe did you say that you belonged to?" he began to 'ask.
dhe Delaware, great nation, grandfather of all--ndjats."
"Exactly, but you came here for apurpose, did you pot?"
The Indian endeavored to look very cuilning, but only succeeded-,nlooking
ery stupid: " Me go see white brother at.fort,"
Ah, then yod have acquaintances there! Who is it young krpwthere? '
"Me know Big Jump, great warrior."
rBig Jump! who can you meati? I don't know any such person"
"You not know? Big Jump, jump creek, twelve, twenty foot?"
When?"
Long while, then snow not yet on ground."
"Ah, now I know. I guess you mean RobertCanpbellthe sco ; I Beart
ILe leaped across a creek in trying to escape froi. theIn4i ns last year."
"That him, that him; him great warrior!"
"You are right there, my lad.":
" He have fine squaw, too; take Wild Rose to his wigwam."
"ake whom?"
Wild Rose; you know too."
"I know a Rose, to be sure, though as to wildness, I ean't see much of
* that."s
"Rhse very beautiful."
I readily subscribe to that." -
':She Big Jump's *quaw soon."
Indeed she won't!" the Lieutenant exclaimed energetically. He knew only
one Rose; yes, it may be said in truth, for hihn there was only one Rose. in ex-
i;tence; so when the Indian spoke of Rose, he naturally thought big-Zo
dlude to his Rose. The reader nay therefore imagine his surpriseat:the I-
dian's suggestion and will not .wonder at the vigorous denial oIf the statenlent.
F  he Indian, however, did not suffer his opinion -to h shaken or altered.
"Yes, 'him will; Red Fox knows,"I
"How the deuce do you know?"
Me-know, Big Jump love Rose." -                     "    *_
But how do you know it, stupid?"
Me see."
See what?"
Big Jump take Rose and do so."
He made the paitomime of hugging and kissing."
"The devil he did!" cried=the- Lieutenant, who hegan to lose his tmen:I
Indian, you are dead drunk, or you would not talk such nonsene.".
Me sober; me know what say; Big Jtiip love Rose; soon take her to
m."                                                  7

WI -   _  ,-~-- - ~ -

62

Tiedife     7 lookledblink $ The Indian spokewwith a Wpositiveness, thattP
rNirneikitk ehak&amp;a 'A                                         4
Y6  iaita sky .that Campbelt loves Robe?"
Ahdiidg'ed and kissed her?"
W    1{,n°i6W  ffe'dwd hope yu y rerefare4 to proye what you say, er
oQ Wight far bdly foreu rn steoious desin:f'i*n    ^
" Eh £ geakstait~ Rei Poatndt undrstenLd
" I mean, dan you prove what you say?"
"What bl oV,?"y .r      ._
" CAi  ou make my eres"see Vhat ou sa"
'"' Y s; Red Focan," the idian{said eagely-
"Mld brother Count days; ne, two three, fo    six-conat six days
00Welt, what abut it?"
"-iboW big knob; bre,, four, five Mile?"
Steked Fo plus ted this uestien by=oinng with his hand in   south'
eastern dire tion.
"Bit k od? yes; I think l do, A conelie    - standing out from _affhe
others."
Si what athat 4i to d   itl this  iigJ
y brdtherg  ter-see Big u         o &amp;iose. See them one, three, s i
Yon mein sia days rnre toay="
The Idliasnodded-h ehiskey began, to'ake him drowsy.
4 .AX *h~ft'thnIe1 otthe  S'ST?"
"Whe natandrt tr   e&amp;".
The directionistinated was the meridian _
Six ddyffrrm  d day'ihen  tonen'h      oiant murmured to himself.
"It is incredible and yet this boy is so po tivef j-passes my comprehension,
how he should kno*w, but I sbhdleribly &amp;iK' t ct upon his hint. I'll go
tb th  fc feode ih o    atdwo e toi a  ergf I find then."
Resting his4ibhpohids *dda iddh      ip      his knee, he preserved a
mohriftf sileitetorintije .thanthalf ia ihn  t, 39h'n recollecting himself, he
rose wit a'stddleastt and Jookirg frois s.d companion, found'hirt s.,at
asleep at tte' side f4thi tog, Th  iskop 4uad done its work in adoume
sense; buttthe ofcMxeehad ipid deitr 'frii nrnif ation, thus extracted  'm
the lad; so dear, that he :hist-wishedre Lbd never obtained it. Without
heedintle panther skhi, Whidchthe  di h eif given him he gloomilyIvan-
deredawvay, Iaving hebdj isdeathlfkeslee. -So:deep indeed was the p
consciousnessIproduceri by theAfIery beve age, that-the sun had well
feted his course, when tha sleeper eoke. lie looked around w.,ith  ,
}4

,
S
f
8
L
'
L
Lam}'
h
i
t
i
I
4'i-

.,

F    af
2 ii*
Vu  - I~


t
j
s
t4
IR

EL-Y

F
E
j         e
Y    Y
p
y    z
}
L
E
{'
y'
"

64 '=lE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.
-stare, and-in vain t'  to obtain a connected-recollection of the morning's ad-
venture. He knew be had met a white man, he knew that he had k ofeely'
of tie dangerous firewater, and he had a vague idea that fheo hallowed his
tongue to run at random. He felt heartily ashamed of himself,for the Indian
considers the breach of trust one of the meaniest of things, provided the profes-
sion was not merely made as a ruse, to draw a foe intoa snare. Comforting
himself at least with the idea that he had4'revealednothig of importance, and
that the part revealed would remain without serious consequences for himself
and his friends, he arose; and after adjusting his simple toilet pursued his
course towards the Fort.
It was night when he reached the brow of the hill from which. his eye could
look on the plain on which the Fort was situated.: Fearing to draw too near
in the darkness and knowing, moreover, that he couk not then communicate
with Big Jump-for such was his intention-he gathered himself some moss in
a cluster of bushes and stretched his limbs on this, rough bed, courted sleep to
close his eyelids. But the nap during the day prevented the drowsiness, which
usually besets us at break of night and the young Inian for several boyrs
rolled restlessly about. It was after midnight when h finally fell asleep and
so we need not wonder, that at sun rise he still revelled in the realm of dream*.
The lad wondered considerably,-when all at once: he was recalled to conscious-
ncss by the rough contact of the stock of a rifle with his body.
"Get up, you vagabond," a voice sounded in his ear caused hin tp spring to
his. feet with the rapidity of thought. 'A deep mortification filled his breast:
twice within the space of a few hours had he suffered himself to be outwitted.
If this leaked out to his Indian friends, would they not with contempt look gpon
him so weak and unreliable a youth! Would they not hereafter refuse to even .
honor him again with any commission of trust andconfidence? In consequence
ofthese thoughts he preserved a sullen silence, not even looking at the man
who had so roughly interrupted his sleep. ' A second inquiry uttered in a sharper
tone, was necessary to make him raise his eyes, No sooner, however, had he
beheld the person standing before him when his mien of dejection changed first
into one of wonderment, and then of joy.
"Ugh!" he exclaimed' in his native tongue, "Big Jump."
"The Big Jump! Whotn you mean with such ambiguous appellation?"
Yes. my brother is a Big J~ump,"he can leap the'bed of rivers."
- "Ah!" the other exclaimed, a smile stealing over his features. "You allude
to the ticklish jump I made last summer.. Well, I declare, Inever thoughtthat
that leap would help me to .a name and such.a dubious one.  But I haveait,
and I suppose it will stick to me likepitch, so there is no use in trying to shake
it off. But what are you-doing here my young friend?"d
The reader understands already, that the.Big Jump is nobody but friend
Robert. Obedient to the orders of the commander, he had as usual begun his
morning round and striking the Indian's trail followed it to its teriinus. This
ti# th youth showed no hesitation in ans vering the question. Seeing in his

The face of the scout became almost radiant with delight on hearing these
pleasant news.
"Here!" he exclaimed. "The Wild Rose did not say that she would meet
me here?"
"No, not here; she will be on the summit of the ig knob yonder, when the
sun turns its face towards the west."
"pu mean at noon?"
"My brother has said it."

"Big Jump is a gr t warrior. He jumps the beds of rivers;.he follow the
trail of the red man l e a hound; he hears the message of the Wild Rose far
oft; he has spoken ,,the truth; the Wild Rose sends the Red Fox to' her white
friend, the-131g Jump."
The boy smiled.
The sensitive ear of Robert no longer shrank at that: dubious name; in his
estiniation heA had never heard a sweeter voice than that of the messenger
while making his statement. He grasped the hand of thelad with a friendly
pressure aidf said: "My young friend, the Red Fox, is very welcome. - It is
well he has fallen in with his friend, the BigJump, or he might have got into
difficulties.  -
Now the Indian took great care, not to reveal the disagreeable blu ders of
the day before. ' It suited him better to boast before the Big Jump and so he did
boast.
,The Red Fox is not afraid," he said, drawing himself up .He can creep
through the bushes like his namesake and avoid the gaze of the white man.
Robert' smiled, for it struck him that a white man had without muchdifficulty
tracked the .Red Fox but a minute ago. But paying no attention to'this in-
congruity, he asked: - "And what message does the Wild Rose send to me?"
She loves Big Jump very much," the youth said with a cun'ning smile, at
which the white-man could 'not help blushing.
"Did she say so?" heinquired.
"No, but the Red Fox has his eyes open; he can see,".        "
"But 'that is not the question now.  I do not want to knew what the Red
Foi saw but what he heard."

.i
p
E
a
1

s
f.
.1

:{
)  si
.+4';i
T_

THE WILD   O$E      HE BEAVER.65
neighborhood a bush of sweet briar in full blom, he str  p to it and break-
ipg one of the flowers, with a smile:presented it to the s . Robertwas too
well -versed i#,Indian customs not to interpret the meaning of the other iti a
moment. A joyous expression flew over his face and making a rapid step to-
wards the Indian lad, he said rapidly and'with emphasis: " The Wild Rose!
It is she than:sends you!"

Thus corrected, the Indian resumed:' "The Wild Rose will come this way
before many days; when the sun appears in the sky the fifth time after this,
she will be here to meet her friend.";

t  I       I
r   r'
"4  1
4 4,
x-
It " t

i
x¢      v +; Z~
lfn
£Syx

' ti
;
'.t
i
.°


66.

THE WILD--RO #/ l   InsEAVEaL.

r
I, y
t K

_
z
"
-
__

Very well, I    be theie. Tell the.WildeRose I will be there, and it the,
trees tumble like r  : ina .'hurricane: -=But'iy fried must be hungry?"  .
"The Red Fox never get, hungry"
" But a, good breakfast will, nevertheless be welcome, I reckon," the'scout
said, smiling at the extravagance of the boy's expressions. "If theRed Fox
will stay here and take good care not to expose himself, I'l go downadfetch '
him something. to eat."
Without awaitingthe answer, Robert started for the ~rtal d}at the. expirate
tion of half an hour returned with a supply of such victuals. as he:had been.
able to procure in a hurry. The Indian had fasted since thebreakfast,he had'
shared withthe Lieutenant and therefore developed an appetite that didvery
will for one that never gets hungry. When he had .dene the scout told him.to,
arise  and follow him,leading him by a round about way to the Beaver River
in the neighborhood of the falls' ' here all at once a canoe with two Indians
attracted his sight, The vessel wa.coming down stream, and the, opepness,
with which' the two inruates pursued their course was sufficient evidence that
secrecy was not their aim. Still the scout-thought best to conceal his presence
from the strangers, until they had approached near enough, to allow a closer
examination of their character. Motioning to his companion he entered a
cluster of bushes growing on an eminence, from whichvthey had a full view of
the approaching craft and the falls or rapids of the river. The canoe was near-
ing fast and the two Indians consequently came more plainly to view. All at
once the Red Fox touched his companion's arm.
"Ugh!" he exclaimed, " I see the-Red Feather and Turtle-Heart."
"Upon my word you are right;. one ofthem is the rascal that was so eager
for a roast last summer. My fingers itch to send a bullet into his red carcass."
"Big Jump must not shoot," the Red Fox earnestly protested. " Maghpi-
way goes to Fort to make peace."
Robert looked at him indignantly: " What do you mean, sir? Do you think {
I shoot unsupecting people from a cover? No, no, my boy, that4is not rpy
fashion.  If I say my hand itches, it does not follow that I need yield to the
itching. But see, the chief prepares to shoot the falls. That must be an iner-
esting sight. 'I have heard that the Indians frequently did it, but I never did it
myself hor 'saw it. done. Ah! ,the old fellow manages right handsomely."
While he was uttering these words the canoe had indeed entered the rapids:
The venture seemed, perhaps more perilous from his elevated standing point,
than to the men engaged init. He could see the tossing waters madly rushing
over and between the huge rocks and ledges, constituting the bed of the river at
that point. He could exactly calculate the course they had to take in order to
avoid destruction and involuntarily moved his body in accordance with his cal-
culations. - When the canoe had safely passed the. tossing ivhirlpools, he felt
greatly relieved and drawing -a deeper breath exclaimed:  "Well done Red
Feither! For this handsome piece of seamanship I forgive you your dioody
intentions against me. But I must join them, Red Fox; or some one at the

,1

9
-                                                                                                             -       -                   ^'4.                                           %L 'may    "              7                                                         }

.                                                                                                                                     {            ..
r       --~      _                ..  , _    ..  ?'Li-. .,..aK .na..m..,r. +.3e-., ..ti..  ,.K...  -e...-. v. . _'..-          T      .

TUZ WILt       OF TEHE3EAVit~
llockhouse might i-sake'atargets eir dusky skins. Sd T  ist iseae you
now, which I well may, as there is no danger of your safety bfa6idetis'dint.
Earewe l, ay; lad, and do not forget o'tellthe WildtRose that] shallle on
th.-jTKto)to wit hercoming         ."
T e lad shook hands=with hithi. ndthenetaking a northern ' doisesrted on'
;his 'homeard-journey. The s-out on the other:hand iCurbed hisatention to
the, canoe,,w ic'khatbthatmbmentawas swiniin ingti thesetiet firenfis ideet.
'We stepped frotn the bushes" and by a'dinhlbhout drew the eyes df ti'tndi iua
pohis nsbxn. :Theystohpped the progress of  their canbe ail' after a'rapid
examinatiohSof te white mar answerecflili sign l by a cry of theirs. Then
they~pddledstheir canbe towards -the ba an   indication that'theyhad redog-
nisd himand=participated in his desire ofFan interview. Rohbt therefore de-
scended the slopeand. reached therbank atithe momentt (le IIniahslanded.
"Good day, chief," he skidvWititha'gooddnatured smile.  I am  lad to see
you batk to the banks of the BaVagain. What brings yon do/n to-day, if
I may ask?"
.'lMeo see white father 'at the Fort. Delawares wish'nmake peace now."
"Ah! you changed your notOn then. I recollect a timenot very far back,
whenythe Red Feather thought differently."
Red Feather gdt Tolder.-=got wiser. HI4im never to old to learn."
"That is a truth, which holds good with the white man as well as the red;
but if you want to visit the Fort, I may as well go with you. My presence may
possibly saye you some-troubles and risk ih passitig the blockhouse."  .
"My brother is welcome. = If him step in canoe, us paddle himi down."
In obedience to this invitation the scout stepped into the craft, which shot
back into the middle pf=theistrearn and then resumed'its rapid edurse clownrthe
creek. On the, present site of New Brighton a. blockhouse-had been. erected,
which at that time was garrisoned with a small body of troops: It commanded
-  the river and the :two Indians might have found difficulty in passing it, if the
.presence of the scout had not protected them. It is more than likely; that the
commander of the post had been warned of the probability-of-a similar occur-
ence but in those wvild times the life of an Indian was not more highly valued
than that ofa dog and the mere instructions of the commianding;officers of the
-Fort might in itself have proved a very inefficientsafeguarc. When the canoe
passed the building the men showed theirheads at.various openings.
You have queer customers there,,Bob,'one of them accosted the scout.
Will you give usjleave to pepper away at them?" another added.
-If your own skintickles you overpiuch} why not? These Men are under
my protection and I suppose you understand what-that means.
"Proud like a duke," responded the 'Man laughing.  "But, pass oi, I have
no inclination to have my body riddled nor my bones broken."
This shows plainly in what estimation the Big'Jump was held by his com1-
rades. They knew him to be a steadfast friend, but also a dangerus enemy;

$  11
Ii
I'
3]

Y
e


'
_       x
B
a
s
3
S
_
[       r
O  ,
t
_     -
Y.
t
1
r.
t
'
'4
{"
i
t
E
rV
l
Fs
.  s
a
c

" . _
a ,
c
3 e
,y ,
S_ +
L-
,  i
5 _:
y
c r _
t
t
V- F
. .1'
4
t
t
f
R
.
3

68,             .TrE wt) f-ost        DtEAVt R.
and so it happened that his influence iPe Fort was at least at par With that
of the commander.
The canoe. reached the mouth of the Beaver; and after passingthrough the
channel- formed by the main land and the above mentioned Islandshotup to
the landing of the Fort. - The Vessel was fastened and the party, received by
the few idlers, who always more or less lounged about the Fort. - The news of
their arrival soon spread amongst the garrison, and when the Indians, in, com-,
]any with Campbell, had ascended the covered way, all the' soldiers nat
detained by duty, crowded to the gate to see them enter. Tief'bore then
selves with a dignified reserve, which never ceased untilthey stood before the
commander. Maghpiway, being a chief, thought himself entitled to being re-
ceived by his equal, and would have considered a contrary proceeding a slight,
or even an insult. When tire Captain, however, bade them welcome, he smiled
graciously,and announced himself as an envoy of the Delawares,who-had learned
from the Six Nations, that their great fathers in Philadelphia desired to make
peace with them. The Delawares were ready to listen to their wishes, he said,
and even now are on their way to the Fort to learn the propositions which their
white brothers had to make.
To this the Captain replied that he was glad to learn the peaceful disposition
of the Delawares.  He was also glad to hear that the tribe was coming, and
would do everything in his power to make them comfortable. -He wanted the
chief to stay and rest from the exertion of his journey, so that after a while he
might be able to go back to his tribe, to inform them of the peaceful and
friendly disposition of his own and of their great father, the Congress, in Phila:-
delphia.
After this speech he delivered the guests to Campbell] with the request that
they should be made comfortable, and receive every attention which could be
shown them under the circumstances.
In. obedience to this injunction the scout took them to Anderson's quarters,
taking good care to inform the inmates before hand of the -character of the
guests. In consequence of this precaution the women were enabled to sup,
press all signs of fright, with the exception of a nervous uneasiness, which-
worked itself off in an excess of civility and hospitality.  The Indians were
made to smoke, te eat, to drink and sleep to their heart's content, and their '
countenance's showed plainly how much they appreciated the kindness of their
guests. Anderson was in a good humor, and evidently enjoyed the discourse
with these savage children of the forest. He recalled numerous reminiscences
in which both he and Maghpiway had played role, and laughed just as freely
at his o vn discomfitures as those of his guest's; for he had not always been the
victorious party in his encounters with the savages.
When he alluded to his visit at the Indian village the previous summer,
Maghpiway exhibited the slightest possible trace of confusion.
My white brother great warrior," he said, perhaps, to coat the ugly re.

T#E   1      E OF THE WEAVER.               69
.   miniisence over with honey.   ow he escap d1ndians then? Maghpiway
never find out."
Ah, you would like to know chief, would you?" the scout said, chuckling
at the recollection of his fortunate escape, "I supposed you nevet dreamed of
the poseib'ility-of a fellow's dodging and giving you the-slip that way?"
"'Me-not think it them. Me follow Big Jump. Big Jump-give big cry; make
Indians believe he much strong. Then go after Big Jump, catch him-Little
Coon run away."
Robert broke into a laugh at this :novel appellation of his friend, in which
Anderson. himself joined, though he knew henceforth that name would adhere
to him as tight as his skin. If he had been a young man and beginner, that
name might have injured his reputation'with his red neighbor; as it was they
would respect and fear him as much under the sobriquet of Little Coon, sat if they
had called him the Big Panther tr drizzly Bear.
Whiskey was then an every day beverage, without which no meal was con-
sidered complete. We need not wonder then that Andersop freely offered his
guests of'the dearly coveted firewater. Nor did they refuse; but in re nember-
ance of 'their dignified character as envoys, they for once abstained from de-
grading themselves into beastly intoxication. They drank enough to put them-
selves into an exceedingly good' humor, a fact, that showed itself by the nu-
merous efforts at jokes they made. Red Feather also became aware of the
charms of his female hosts, and attempted to sing their praise. Beckoning to
Anderson he said:  " My friend has a beautiful daughter; what may be her
name?"
" We call her Rose, chief."
",Rose?" the chief repeated with unusual attention. " That beautiful name'
The Rose make fine squaw some day. Big Jump better take her-hitn very
fond of roses."
The chief looked attentively at the young hunter, who could not help color-
ing slightly at this hint, which the others 'of course failed to comprehend. An-
derson was well pleased to have a subject. broached. which he had thus tar
failed to bring up.           -
S      " Well, chief,"lhe cried, "you are not so far wrong there, and your notion
proves what I always believed, namely, that you are a clever sort of a fellow.
The Big Jump, as you call him, is rather a little shy, but I shouldn't at all
wonder if he would sooner or later act on your hint."
The rest of the company received thesewrenfrks with a silence, which Would
h ve struck both Anderson and the chief as-ominous, if it had come earlier ii
t   day. Their frequent potations had indeed failed to upset the balance of
their minds, but it had riven them a wonderful capacity for deying everything to
assume the color of their wishes. So Anderson received the impression, that
the silence of the young people was equal to an assent, and Maghpiway would
have sworn that the chance of the Wild Rose for ever becoming the squgw of
the -Big Jump was very poor indeed;  Anderson wished a. union betiveeg his

III    W IN                     Oil  I la  1!1 1 a  11111 -1 1  1 6"-will
lp                                                                                                                                                                                                 plop"".

i.

b              S1       j
a                                                      +

1
P-

'1  X
S t
V z
*  .   ggj
p   Y
bi '4 ,


70              THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.
daughter and Robert because he. was thebnter's friend; and Maghpiway, be-
cause he was his foe and rival. The discovery of this supposed new attach-
:ment of the hunter, not only added to the chief's good humor, but also softened.
his animosity against the young man, and caused hint to depart from the Fort
the.next day in peace with himself and the whole world. .*
CHAPTER VIII.
-      AN INVOLUNTARY BATH.
On the day of Maghpiway's departure from the Fort the deserted Indian vil-
lage, in which the reader has first met the Beaver, once more resouhded with
the noise of life. Again the chief had led his tribe towards the rising sun; to
the hunting grounds of their fathers. The same lodges were occupied by the
same families, except .where death with his merciless hand had made such an
arrangement impossible. They did not find the dilapidated houses any better-'
after their year's absence, and willing or not, the men had to have recourse to
the axe and tomahawk, or choose the alternate of seeing the roof tumble in
over their heads.
The Beaver had done like the-rest. As his house had from the beginning
been in a better condition than most of the others, his preparations. were less
annoying; but the Wild Rose took good care to save him all trouble, small as it
was. The chief had two sons, young men of seventeen and twenty, whose ac-
quaintance we made a good while ago, without taking the time to state their
relationship to the Beaver 'and the Wild Rose. One of them we have met lately
again for the. Red Fox, the messenger of the maiden to the scout, is no lessa
person than her brother.and the son of the chief.. The other youth we know as
yet but slightly, but may perhaps before long have an opportunity of improving-
his acquaintance.  At present, we Are much struck by the mien of deference
strangely contrasting with the ready obedience, which--contrary to Indian cus-
tom-the two youths observed towards their sister.  She need only say a
word to have it carried out ane soy the few repairs .are rapidly effected. The
dutiful daughter still further attends to the simple wants. of her father, arrang-
ing everything according to his well known tastes and habits; but at last *v-
ing done this, she secretly beckons to the Red Fpx and leaves the house.
Striking for the woods in the nearest direction, she chose a secluded spot and
awaits the arrival of her brother. When she sees him coming she points'to a
log ,opposite the one which she sits and begins to inquire about the'result of
his excursion. * The, youth had been home for several hours; but so great was

I

I.
4
-I
R ~4

TL' WILD-ROSE OF THE' BEAVER.

the selffcontrol of this'rare girl;'.ha' she conquered her curiosity nd only
yielded to it, whet she foundit toaagriee  ith other and more imperative duties.
She is still the brave, noble creature, that with a bleeding heart turned from her,,
lover,.to save him=the-pain of a more protracted parting;' as to appearance, sli&amp;
is 'eiren rore beautiful than a year-ego. ,Love brings out the charm of the
maiden, as the sun does the color of the flower. -The soul having lain as in a
trance),awakes, lighting:  the face with the fire of Prometheus, the spark from
heaven.
Thus the Wild Rose has grown more beautiful; because she has grown more
spiritual and'the smile spreading over her countenance, when she first begins
to question her brother, is of a truly angelic beauty.        "
"M   brother has returned from his errand," she said. - "He has seen him
'then?"
The .Red Fox has seen and spoken to the Big Jump."
"Oh, do not call him so-it is an ugly name."
I would gladly exchange mine for his."
"fAh, I suppose so;" the girl replied, pleased by this praise of her lover. "To.
have his hame the Red Fox would also have to have his qualities."
" He -is young'; but some day or other he will have them."
" I hope so, I know of no better pattern' for my brother to go by. But what
did the Big Jump say?- Did he listen to the message of the Wild Rose?"
"Hie listened as the bear to the humming of the bee, the mocking bird to the
.    call of its mate.  He said: I love the Wild Rose better than all otter flowers
and shall be there to enjoy her sweet perfume."
The maiden looked delighted.
"And you are sure you gave him the right time and the right place?"
"-The Red fox did. Did the Wild Rose ever find him mistake the meaning
of her words?"
"No, she did not, and I thank him very much, I want him to hold himself
in readiness to go with me on the day appointed," '-
'The Red Fox will be ready."
"Will; he also tell the White Wolf?"
-      d"He will, if the Wild Rose is=anxious to take him; but the White Wolf would
hate to go; he is-not very fond of the palefaces."
"His feelings are-older than his judgment. I want him to go, to rid him-
'self of his prejudice."
' The Wild Rose has said it; the White Wolf will go."
"It is right. I will not forget how good the Red.Fox is to his sister."
After these words she rose, blending the dignity of the queen-with' the affection
of the sister, in a manner whicliat once explains the great'influence she exer-
cised not only over her brother, but many other warriors of the tribe. Even
those whose wooing she had rejected, remained her sincere t friends and ad-
mirers,'feeling perhaps, that their rough hands were not calculated to handle
so delicate a flower, Of these the Red Feather formed the only exception;

)

t rl'

7'

77-7-7

Tfl
i
y      1
i
.6                    7         y
f
W
.               (   f
1
4}  ,
F         -
I           
'                E
Y
iff
i.
l8
i
4a
ht
y
1!
*   ft
j    .
t
I


4:
ryJ
j}
f.

I

si

Although he was the "oldest of her suitors, he had not suffered himself to be
discouraged by her original rejection of his proposal. Perhaps he took the re-
fusal for mere coyness, which would wear off with a riper age and understand-,
ig. It appeared to histconceit as a downright impossibility that a man of
such reputation and a chief withal, should be jilted by a girl, who hid hardly
passed her teens, and could surely not expect a more honorable connection in
the tribe.  The rescue and adoption of Robert Canmpbell on the 'part'of the
Wild Rose had first'startled him from his security and opened his eyes to the
possibility of'a disappointment of his hopes and expectations. The rage which
he felt at this unexpected 'denouncement was, as the reader recollects, only
equalled by the hatred-with which from that day he contemplated his enemy,
the hunter. True, the Wild Rose travelled in thesame direction;,which neces-
sity compelled him to pursue, and, so the chief could afford to defer his ven-,
geance to a later day. That day-in his opinion-was drawing near, when'
once -more the tribe turned their faces towards the east, choosing him as the
messenger of their peaceful disposition. While acting as an envoy, he could
not of course strike his foe and therefore made no use of the various
chances that offered to injure or destroy him. But he carefully studied the Fort
and its surroundings and would no dqubt have matured his plans at an early
hour, if the.supposed connection between Campbell and the daughter of David
Anderson had not suddenly and unexpectedly turned his thoughts into a new
channel and induced him to strive for the consummation of his original designs
on the Wild Rose in preference to the satisfaction of his vengeance. The reader
recollects thergood humor with which' he departed from the Fort for his native,
village, where he arrived during the important conference held in the woods by
the Wild Rose and her brother. Having no family to claim his attention at his
lodge, Maghpiway at once directed his steps to the hut of the Beaver and-was
fortunate enough to find that chief at home. Perhaps his early return was un-
expected, for the Beaver started slightly at his sight.
"Ugh! the chief has travelled fast; but he is doubly welcome for that reason.
Will he sit down and smoke a little before he tells me the result of his errart?"
The chief accepted the proffered pipe and after finishing it delivered the mes-
sage of the commander at the Fort. The Beaver nodded like a man who sees
a thing confirmed, which he expected long ago.  Indeed he was well aware
that only the desperate opposition of the.Red Feather had prevented the con-
clusion of a treaty a year ago, and his knowledge had indluced him to send
.   that chief, thus enlisting the sympathy of the only man that might again prove
injurious'to his plans and detrimental to the best interests of the tribe.
At this moment 'the Wild Rose entered the room and was ordered by the
Beaver to prepare a meal for the hungry envoy. The Red Feather gravely,sa-
luted the girl, receiving in turn a more gracious look and pleasant smile than
had fallen to his share for a long while. This unexpected reception still
strengthened him in his intentions and thus led to the deplorable complication,
which well nigh proved fatal to several of our friends, but to hear of which

72

'4   '  ~777

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.                 73
may not be unacceptable to-the reader, as they furnish the material for the
continuation of our tale.
We have often said, that Indians were born statesmen and have now a new
-      opportunity to prove this assertion by the skill, with which the Red Feather set
to work. "While eating he discoursed upon various topics in the hearing of the
Wild Rose, touching here and there upon' Robert Campbell, appearing uninten-
tional and indifferent regarding the impression, which his words would make
upon his hearers. Yet he knew well.enough, that both' father and daughter were
earnest attentive listeners, the former for political, the latter for personal rea-
sons. It must be'confessed that the chief told well, like most of his race, who
receive from nature, what many a white orator has to acquire by long, patient
* years of study.
After describing the Fort and the reception by the Commander, he entered
upon that portion of his narrative relating to his stay in the family of the scout.
This, of course,was more interesting to the Wild Rose than all the rest, as she
knew of the intimate relation between Anderson and Campbell;- but she ab-
stained from betraying her interests, thus showing the self control not only of
the individual, but also of the race.
Suddenly, however, her attention was destined to reach a painful intensity.
The chief began to speak about a beautiful maiden, the daughter of his host.
This maiden he purposly adorned with all the charms'imaginable, and then
suddenly'-followed with the announcement of her intended marriage with Rob-
ertCampbell.
This time the Wild Rose could not suppress a slight start. True, she had
often seen Indian marriages between one husband and half a dozen of wives;
but she also knew that such was not the practice amongst white men, and even
if it had been, her ardent nature would not have contented itself with a share
of her husband's affection. No indeed, she, and she alone,.wanted to be the
wife of Robert Caipbell, and woe to the maiden that would venture tocross
her path! Certain destruction would be her fate!
But no! she merely raved and troubled herself for nothing, for only 'a short
hour ago had she received her betrothed's message, that he still loved her as
fondly as ever, and that he would be sure to meet her at the rendezvous pro-
posed. So this communication of the Red Feather must either be 'based upon
a wilful falsehood or an innocent mistake. In either case it would be below
her dignity to call him'to account cr correct his error. She allowed him to fin-
ish his story and to depart without uttering a single word about this or other
-          matters. Still she could not prevent a certain dejection from spreading over
her countenance.
The Beaver saw it. He had from the moment of disclosure sympathized
with his favorite child.                          .
"My daughter is sad," she said. ,"She :must not take this too much to,
heart."
The Wild Rose quietly raised'her head,

._ ..., ,.,.-e,.F s.,-     . ...                                             _                             a      _                                        __         _                                   _

r      .,  r .L i           ..+s-, ,  F ' ^   A,   R  i4 :...+- .-.a,..ar  +.n ....i .            i..+._  , e.  .... n.  x-       . .... _                      ,..   ..                             rW-        We;]=w'v+Yts           - " 4

I
4'
'I
4 r1
4
4


74

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.

1
i
4

si       '
Ai
1:

____

"The Beaver does not believe, the Red Feather, his tongue is crooked and'
his words are lies.'"
" I have never found the chief given tolies."
"Then he is mistaken. Surely Robert Campbell cannot bp false to the Wild
Rose."
"I hope not my daughter; but these pale-faces are at best a fickle race. If
it be true, the Wild Rose must not wither and mourn her -loss."
It it is true, the Wild Rose will sting and die; but it cannot be true; the
chief cannot prove his words."
" Shall the Beave'r go and try him?"
"Yes, the Wild Rose will be thankful to her father, She would go herself,
but she loathes to meet the Red Feather."
- The Beaver rose and without further parley left the house. During his ab-
sence the girl neither spoke nor, stirred, and when the chief returned after an
hour's absence he found her in the sane place and position. His countenance
looked troubled and he seemed to shrink from making his communication.
Le my father speak," the maiden said with a steady voice. *' She knows,
he has bad news; but she can:hear them."
The Beaver proceeded to give her the details of the Red Feather~s-visit at
Anderson's house, neither adding nor.omitting a single word' of the account he
had received from the'chief. He also told her that the Red Feather had spoken
of a trip which the family of the scout had agreed upon in his presence. They
were to go to an 'island in the Ohio river, some'miles above the Beaver, to spend
a clay there camping out. - Campbell, he said, was to go along.
" And when do they propose making this excursion?"
" To-morrow.".                                     -
" It is wvell," the girl said with a determined voice; "the Wild, Rose will go
and see; to-morrow night she will know the truth."
The. Beaver remained silent. Perhaps he knew his daughter and'was aware
that persuasions would be of no avail; perhaps he thought himself, that cer--
tainty was preferable to a state of painful doubt, no matter how galling it might
prove. The girl on the other hand went to see her brothers and bid them get
ready for an early start the next morning. During the day she was taciturn,
the Beaver humoring her like a spoilt child, but feeling the want of her sunny
smile more keenly than he would confess to himself. When on the rising of the
next sun his three 'children, after a short farewell, left him for their trip to the
banks of the.Ohio, he looked after them with an expression more sad than his
countenance had worn for many a day.
The trio followed the right bank of the Beaver to the mouth of the Con-
nequenessing. There they crossed over to the left bank, and pursuing a south-
eastern course, after a few hours walking, passed the foot of the big knob, at
the sight of which the shade on the face of the Wild Rose deepened. No won-
der! how could the poor girl gaze at the place~of the appointed rendezvous with
her lover without a keen sensation of pain at the thought of the peril threaten-

ii t

r,
...x_ ..   ti..4          ''  "4 k h         '." r rR.i e ..4   i'~  ,'y. i;  x.  &amp;ti+ G ?.  E-A  , e.4 n  ^Y si r 4i t°  ri
i             r    M1 r      y                _                    ?.    !r                 _     ,

-r ,
1'

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.                  75
ing her prospectsof future happiness? It took all the strength of her will to
maintain the stoical, but deceptive, indifference which had thus far marked her
conduct.
From the knob the travelers changed their 'course for one due south, thus
striking the river at a point opposite the island of which they were in search.
The reader knows these islands now as Hog and Crow.Islands, but he is mis-
take? it he thinks that in those days they bore an aspect similar to- the present
ones. They were larger and densely wooded, and their high banks projected
so steeply into the water that their ascent was only practicable in a few places.
The girl and her companions had no canoe and were unable to reach the is-
lands; nor was this their purpose, but taking their position oh the heights, lin-
ing the right bank of the river, so that they could spy any vessel coming u the
river, they waited for the development of events with Indian patience.
It was about nine o'clock now and a whole hour elapsed before the expected
canoe came in sight. At.last, however, they perceived a vessel of that descrip-
tion coming up stream with a rapidity speaking well for the skill and strength
of the persons handling the paddle. They were still top far away to allow a
recognition, but Wild Rose saw enough to know that one of the party belonged
to the male and two to the female sex. Themale was of the size-and appear-
ance of the young hunter whose image she treasured witl such fidelity in her
heart, and she felt a strange thrill go through her body as the canoe came
nearer-and nearer and the eye sustained the anticipation of her heart. It was
indeed Robert Campbell; but the pleasure which Wild Rose felt at this long-
missed sight was embittered by the presence of his companions, in one of whom
her keen eye, even at that distance, discovered marks of uncommpn beauty.
When the canoe was abreast the first island it- changed its course, heading
diagonally for, and finally striking, the lower end of it, where it was fastened
and a landing effected. The hunter first helped his companions to ascend the
steep bank, and then emptied the canoe of various articles, which he had evi-
dently brought along to increase the comforts of the expedition. Wild' Rose
recognized several articles of apparel; also an iron kettle, probably intended for
boiling tea or coffee. When everything was\an shore the party disappeared in
the bushes, thus forcing Wild Rose to draw upon her imagination for any con-
jectures of their doings. Alas! if her eyes had before done her bad service, her
fancy now served her infinitely worse. She imagined her lover engaged in of-
fering to another the homage so eminently due to her. She fancied him smil-
.ing upon his lovely, companion, and whispering soft words of love and admira-
tion. Ah! the agonizing tortures that filled those morning hours, as they slow-
ly passed, away. . Wild Rose never. moved; anal her brothers, guessing the
nature of her feelings, preserved a sympathetic silence. At last, when the sun
was nearing the meridian, the scene once more assumed a lively aspect. A
thin column of smoke slowly stole through the bushes and trees of the island,
and figures could be seen gliding here and there in the pursuance of sundry oc-
cupations. All at once the younger woman came close to the waters edge,

W'tiFYi &amp;".7 'E+r'
i-, ; c .wi .tt i# e-i.e  i b- m-     _    _ r'C  " -_   '. ;'    _  iatA..      sa_  . w                        -       _                                _           _                          .. _

,
a
;-

II
-.  A
II
t
4
1    4.
3,
-  ; I

"F'
?r+~ tk   k;  "      tj. : i     i ;: xm    =-'            '_' S    ' Y' -  +s , -.    _       _                          -            -                                                                                                                          _          .. a ...' '  _ ._-.  .-,..,.r.-.,..-,......i"_.._'.- -i.-,-.........,..,.    a     T


44
j                  
i
yy
R
c
s
.J
s
rL

opposite the place from which Wild Rose watched her movements. She seem-
ed to be gathering flowers for a bouquet. Wild Rose gazed at her with a pain-
ful interest. She noticed the coming of.a danger, of which'the stranger herself
was ignorant. The bank of the island was not only steep,'but the swift current
had, with a greedy tongue, licked all the soil from underneath, until nothing
but a network of roots kept the surface from caving in.. This hollow ground
was many feet in width, thus excluding from the mind of the girl on the surface
all thoughts of danger, provided she kept reasonably distant from its edge. So
she stepped out farther and farther, and, at last, in trying to pluck a cluster of
roses blooming near the edge, leaned forward with the whole weight of her
body. At this moment the suspense of the Indian girl reached its climax. Two
principles, wargPing in her bosom, struggled for the mastery. While the demon
of jealousy breathed into her mind the desire to see the bank sink with its pre-
cious burden into the treacherous flood, never to return, a better spirit.whisper-
ed into he- ears the Oummons to challenge the girl, and warn her of danger.
At last the better spirit prevailed. Wild Rose stepped from her cover and lift-
ing her hand, uttered a warning cry, but it was too late. Her own voice was
drowned by a more piercing shriek from the island, which the girl on the bank
uttered on perceiving the bank give way. The poor maiden was the helpless
spectator of her coming doom; for the piece detaching itself from the bank was
so large that its fall consumed some time, landing her a considerable distance
into the flood. Her shriek had caused the scout to start at once for the place
from which it emanated,-in order to ascertain its cause. lie was by no means
prepared for the full truth, and we can easily imagine his consternation when,
on reaching the bank, he saw his companion disappearing in the water. With-
out hesitation he took a powerful leap, reaching near the place where the girl
had sunk, and as he struggled powerfully to reach the surface, he emerged from
the water at the same time with Rosa-Anderson, and so near that she was al-
most within reach of his hand.
Hold up, Rose, for God's sake! hold up one moment!" he cried to her in
an encouraging tone, and striking out vigorously towards her caught her arm
as she was sinking the second tire. Drawing her up with all hisstrength he
succeeded in raising her head above water, enabling her to breathe and pre-
serve a shadow of consciousness. Having so far succeeded in his work of res-
cue the hunter looked around for the best method of completing. it. The cur-
rent was fast taking them towards the end of the- island, and once past that
point the position of. Rosa would again have become very- perilous, as Robert
could not have reached the main shore without a powerful struggle and great
loss of time. So he commenced to strike out for the island with an exertion
proportionate to the interests at stake. For a while it was 'uncertain whether
he would succeed, as the burden of the half-conscious girl impeded his progress:
lior would he, in spite of his most desperate efforts, have reached the point if
Grace Jones hadnot, with great presence of mind, sprung to his assistance.
She had witnessed his leap into the water, and divini-ng its purpose, ran to the'

76

CHAPTER IX.
A CRISIS.
The LIieutenant had led a miserable existence ever since his discovery of the
imagined unfaithfulness of Rosa Anderson. He had shunned RobertCampbell
as well as his mistress, greatly to the wonderment of the latter person. She had
in various ways endeavored to intercept him, being exceedingly anxious for an
explanation of his curious conduct; but he had avoided her so doggedly that at
last her anxiety gave place to indignation, and induced her to change her tac-

791i7 7 7

.. ;
a
.
_
-

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.                 77
-point to, ascertain the result of his efforts., She was filled with consternation,
but her frontier experience had too fully developed her mental and physical fac-
ulties to paralyze them beyond the power of control. When she saw the hunt-
er struggling to reach the point, she prepared to assist him to the best of her
ability, Securing a long sapling she held it out to the swimmer, firmly grasp-
ing another with her unengaged hand. Robert eagerly benefited by this unex-
pected aid. He seized the sapling and suffered himself to swing around until he
was out of the strong current and had reached the eddy below the point. Once
there he found no difficulty in reaching the shore, for telling Grace to keep a
tight hold dn the stick, he gradual  pulled himself nearer the bank, until his
feet touched bottom. Then carrying the senseless body of the girl quickly up
the bank, gently deposited her on the grass. Then botlh he and Grace began
their efforts at resuscitation, which were soon crowned with success, as the girl
had not been very long under water. When she opened her eyes Grace broke
out into a loud shout of delight. Nor could the hunted abstain from lively ex-
pressigns of satisfaction, without having the slightest knowledge of the pain
that every movement of his sent to a 16ving heart. Wild Rose had been a si-
lent anh1 immovable, but by no means indifferent witness of the exciting drama
enacted before')her eyes. She had struggled and conquered with the hunter,
exulting in the manly strength of one so dear to her, and only when the faint
body-of the rescued girl began to showsigns of returning life, the whole con-
sciousness of her own wretched condition returned to her memory. She con-
tinued towatch the movements of they party on the island; she saw them em-
Vark, and looked after their receding forms until their last vestige had vanished
from sight. Then heaving one heavy sigh she turned to her brothers and said:
"You have seen that maiden; 'would you recognize her again?"
"We would."
" Very well! within one week she must be a prisoner in'my hands!"

a  .i Sl.'' .  e1S  ^    .[ f     ._       __         .,.r fw      _ _                                  n                  -                    -4                                                 _.    '4            1ry.. q..,.            -                          _. . ....-    z c  "
+...            .. ,.. a           .n     .a . -       .      .   w.- _t,.        _  _  , ... ..a,..     .. ...s.     . - a   .w.    a                a i                      ..i.,  vJ rs. .T ti .. sr  *    "          .w..  ;*T f     '"   -'i " "" t~ ' y   as I     '"    . ,
.. sc 4 _.  }. -,.       c + r  +-,.-Felt d6.s"'.   _. . _ FF  w  F            d.i y.

r+ 4 't,   { 1h .3v t      --r  "'        ,_.             7  -    a  ,.#,,    r-                                                                                                      -          nT    --'4Cn cct,..cp..m.
;:a     F,' .r "         Y% '.   i. r'  i ",          ,t ,,"rlSj . i,+  f: °t',- ' ~ '" ^  a  s .y                       -           E '                           _                     ,                                                                                              -
Fz ':..                                           :. _' '             + , iY tom=.   " 'Xea ,.,y'        t+' _                  _        _ - -_          _        "- ?_   -            ,"                     t                                   .-
:. r.ki c«,k,:+; }t;+r.°==j' i v-. at« ,       ....    _  ,.y la  a.a, st.«ca ,r }_wJ-,, y..P .,,--. M., n.=..t,.a.,_ir-..,.-... .. .  .,h+rw}_.s.. iji- . .= 4 =q      rr   , w+.;                        '-          "     -  +                                           _ ,
s                                                                                                                                                                                            ...                                               t          ,!

t
x
"F
}
1
v
f
t ff


I'

d
s"
3
z
s
3
3
d

I

. _ ..e. __.                    .. .,  , +.,..;.., .w.   .. N  .-w  ._ ^: w9^ ..;v    Mi +er                ^,T'y "';"'"""'.,. "';!r M!T °f '. fi i1iS. G-..,.   n......-._       ;;s-h. _...    .w                                                                                               '  ' .°.   +:f*'T. zar.+S+K+rwu ep
- "w-   a    -                                       , r                _                             z'x                   ; t" :;, -.    r4'=                  Mai            4
.        .., ..        ,.._                 .                                   +t                         ;', t" s '°f+rt           &amp;-   ;u.xr.        ,t. _r-' -+a +,   ;4"'  ' ":n .cx,   ' ;ti  "t   ;";;' .""    '    ;" ,t    c?,,. ;,$    _ .,,  ~     "1'c;s..         , ,         -
«w,4.." ..-a.er. a,+. t-.. .,...,,.y,.   .    aa w-..R..        e,;4 s..          , 'n  ..'en:,,, ko:,r., ;a7;.mr;i,.. wa :.:aht v. r-r l'rw ,+.,?b .  e....:~jywH.' C;;,re,? ,Ly                T+ ?"pt    '}   +tJ,-    ..,,  d:'         v;+ iw: n. sbYw+ y' ' 4           ,,                   .                  _
.-                                -                         .               Y .              J            _~       §.        -      f;;           s'        '4:  4 ?;"              5'.r!j!      "      n  i3       :y.tY.T    ..      ',Y ",       .'; ' .   #a?_           ",ti?  ' ":      *   *.: a  ?+i. a4a?'R,'" " 'y {w.

78              THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.
tics. If her studied endeavors to meet him remained fruitlessprhaps the oppo-
site extreme would be attended with better results. So assuming. a gay and
unconcerned mein, to which her heart decidedly gave the lie; she feigned to
find unusual pleasure in the company of Robert Campbell, She talked to him
whenever she had a chance, and finally let her policy of defiance culminate in
the excursion which we have depicted in the preceding chapter. The exposure
to a watery grave was by no means the worst feature of this excursion. It had
- kindled sensations so fierce in two different minds,.that the artless girl would
have trembled at the knowledge. That Wild Rose had 'in consequence pf it
been confirmed in her unfortunate opinion, the reader knows: that the case of
the Lieutenant had not been improved thereby he can imagine. Indeed noth,.
ing more injurious for the interests of both parties could well be conceived than
this'pretended indifference and flirtation on the part of Rosa Anderson. What
she designed for a cure merely aggravated the evil--a case not uncommon
where the diagnosis is npt well understood. Rosa had not the slightest idea
of the gloomy doubts regarding her constancy that fevered the brain of her
once light-hearted lover, or she would have been slow to adopt a tethod cal-
culated tQ complete his delirium-r delirious he was. Neglecting his associ-
ates and, in a measure, his duties; begrudging his associates the few words he
was obliged to speak, he wandered about the Fort a mere shadow of the. gay
fellow he had been, The Captain noticed the change, but attributing 't to a
passing indisposition indulged the supposed patient. Had he known the dark
projects of revenge over which the. young man constantly 'brooded he might
have acted differently.
Yes, revenge! that was the only thought in which he endeavored to drown'
disappointed love. Revenge on him and her! He might have immediately
by insulting language, provoked a-deadly quarrrel, if the knowledge of the near
rendezvous on the big knob had not restrained him. He resolved to wait and
like their evil genius step between'them th'ere, to fling his utmost contempt into
her face, and then drive a knife into his boson; to fare afterwards, he cared not
how. His revenge once satisfied, the rest was totally indifferent to him,
V            Time-generally so rapid in theestimation of the many-crept with unbear-
able slowness to him. At last, however, the morning of the rendezvous dawn-
ed, and after providing for a more than liberal quantity of ardent drink, he early
sought the woods, taking the direction of the big knob, and walking all overits
summit hours before the appointed time. Every now and then his restlessness
would drive him away to wander in the woods, until at length the fatal spot at-
traCted him anew, merely to repel a second time.
There was a second party to whom the big knob proved equally attractive--
Wild Rose. She had completely renounced the sweet expectation which she
had at first entertained of the meeting. In coming now she had a very differ,
ent object in view-that of humiliatingand punishing her faithless lover. She
would frown him down-but no, we would violate the truth by saying what  -
,she would do, Her heart was a chaos of conflicting feelings, the only sensa,

'1 it;W 1)KSoonr 'n11MLA V Li.        :   79
tion of which she was fully conscious was a deep agony, bordering on dispair,
Wild Rose ,was surprised at the presence of the Lieutenant; her surprise
growing as she noticed his strange conduct, His frantic movement partly neu-
tralized her excitement; but as noon approached, she became restless at the
perseverance with which he adhered to the spot. What if he should take its in
his head to stay! She would not tolerate the presence, of a witness at the com-
ing interview, yet she sawno way of removing him. She saw no other way
but to resign herself to fate and abide the issue; but the Irritation caused by the
prolonged stay of this stubborn individual had the tendency to soften her toi
wards her lover, acting, as it were, in the capacity of a conductor,
Many impatient glances did the poor girl cast at the heavens, and when the
position of the sun indicated the hour of noon a nervousness agitated a body
generally so firm. She knew the hunter was coming, for the frontiersmen imi-
tated their Indian neighbors, in the punctuality pith which they observed their
engagements. Robert would have hastened to the spot much earlier had he
not thought his Indian bridg would prize a, manifestation of punctual firmness
even more than impatient love. He had purposely restrained his impatience in
order to appear at the rendezvous exactly at-the appointed lo6ur,' In this he
succeeded, but imagine his surprise at discovering the Lieutenant instead of an
other, towards whom he was'drawn with all the ardor of a pent-up passion.
The appearance of the officer made him start, Robert had noticed his sullen
looks bef re; but the anticipation of the happy in-terview in store for lim had
made him more indifferent than usual to this and other things not directly con-
nected with his love. Now, however, the singular appearance of the officer
struck him with double force and for the moment he forgot his disappointments
"Why, Lieutenant," he'exclaimed, walking towards him with a concerned
air, " what in the world ails you? You look very ill."
"And you, I suppose, would like to play the doctor?" the officer inquired with
a sneer. Well I do not object to the drawing of a little bod, I'll pay you on
the spot,too; for having so many little bills to settle with you a little more or less
does not matter."
Bills to settle! Lieutenant, truly you are, delirious and ought to be in bed."
"rYes, yes, I'll lay myself doivn to a long deep slumber before long; but first
I tmust settle my accounts with you. But say, where is that hussy of yours?
{ Is she going to break faith with you as she did with me?"
" -Iussy, Lieutenant! what on earth do you mean?"
"Howinnocent!" the other sneered.. " One would imagine you had always
lived on mother's milk, I want to know where the heartless flirt is that stole
my heart and after breaking it, threw it away like a worthless pebble;"
The hunter was too much astonished to get angry or even answer. He look-
ed 'at the officer in blank surprise.
"Of course you will deny," the Lieutenant resumed.. ,"Sneak and liar tis t
you are, what could you do with more propriety than continue to do the same?"
The hunter started. If the officer had spoken those words in what the oth -c

/ I

.3,             ^                    Wy.r  ~  :  .    .  J  -       .;y Y,                     aN         ,q                  4.RPZ    ^ 1,*4                   %3 "i't'.fi '''' yY,'' '          3,.w¢" P       *          h";,.' '      .I~,rirr             .1   -               ""        Rr ;   ;. ?  }.'s :r Stv.=s:.'   , , sv  i.., y'; s.::;,;"..,=     {
y                                                                                                                       _,r.  ,     O                zs-    y-r t",.          ., .-.' ,+Y .    :rt;,if :« %; ,,°3'=;'  ''u .;k .' i i ,d 1 t-...  ..ii,'a,  ..z+r.:*          ^'s: :# ? ,           -                   '"" "                                         '
,t .  i"    ,  °                  , . _'   x _      .zv.*                                               _                                                                                                                                                                         " .n,.«wr     wr       w,. .,...eo,.aim.. .own"-x'                    +iw
.   '.:.:..- V .1  ,  _ ...  . ,-... i.. .; a.  w.t. .' 'i   c +r +g"   '   ;=u                                                  -                                                                                                                                                                                                          w.,.y wy... ,                   4    .,

tttri  tvtt t   b n i      t     ttt+' tir   ttt: ri

I ,

04 ^ '

"
r
°  :
!
'

'
,
,
4
-
f
4
,1   S
t
1    '

,
t
#
.
k
3;
T        +
1
i       '
4
[     rc j
t '
a
i
i
S       {
gYQ
S J
" P.
t
i
t
a
i
a

J

11


_4
:
. °
.
L   '
-
;
_,
_ .
r
,
z
4        }
$(
'S  1
}{j((    ,
7     a
{i
:i
t
rY

80               THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.
considered a responsible state of mind he would  have resented them in a way
that it would have been doubtful if the 'Lieutenant had lived to repeat them.
The hunter, however, considered him delirious or mad-an opinion not falling
far from truth-and therefore resolved to ignore the taunt.
"Lieutenant," he said gently, "allow me to lead you hence to the Fort; for it
is evident that you need care and attention in the worst kind of a way. It does
not suit me either to leave this place just now, but still-"
Ah he does not like to leave this place!" the.other interrupted with a bitter
laugh. "No; I suppose you do not, Your paramour would cut a queer figure
in coming here, and you away."
"Again that word! Lieutenant you show method in your madness.. You must
in some way have got a glimpse of the nature of my errand here, else-'
There it comes!" the Lieutenant cried. " I knew he could not hide it in
his vile carcass!"
The brow of the hunter darkened. He made a rapid step towards the other,
saying:- "Enough of that now, sir! Mad or no mad, I want no more of your
impudence!"
"Ah finally!" the Lieutenant exclaimed; "he's warming up. I had almost
given up the hope of seeing his sluggish blood boil up."
"Yes,.I see now what your intention is," Robert replied coolly, having 'by
this time fully recovered his self-possession. " But I am sorry to disappoint
you. It shall not be said that I allowed a madman to make me angry."
"It shall not-shall it?" the Lieutenant cried, fairly boiling with rage. "Well
then, so they shall say at last, that a madman was more than a match for you."
Drawing his knife he threw himself with such rapidity upon the hunter that
any onesless used to the frontier and its warfare might have been taken una-
Swares and fallen a victim tothe sudden onset. Not so the hunter. He had
learned tb deal with the.wily savage, and the thrust of the Lieutenant, there-
fore, did not take him by surprise. Springing aside and striking the lifted arm
of the officer he made him spin around before recovering his equilibrium* This
disappointment, however', made the infuriated man only-more eager for another
onset, but just at the moment when he meant to make the spring a strange
hand was laid upon his arm, causing him to stop, more in consequence of the
unexpected interference, than by the force of the movement. Stopping in obe-
dience to the check, and turning around his eye caught a sight well calculated
to upset the little judgment left him. Before him stood in her majestic beauty
the maiden whom the -reader has long ago learned to know as Wild Rose. To
the Lieutenant it had almost the force of a heavenly apparition, so suddenly and
unexpectedly did it break upon him.
Who are you? What do you want of me?" he asked in startled surprise.
"It's all the same who me be. Me want to keep you from being kill."
Are you so sure of that?" the officer inquired, regaining his spirit of defiance
in the same proportion as his bewilderment subsided.      4

i
i

"Yes, me is. If your eyes are not blind with fury-you see yourself. You
not think you kill bunter?"
The last question was asked in a mixture of derision and exultation. Injured
as he thought herself, she could not forget the skill and prowess of her lover.
" Yes I do think that, and if you stand aside,'I shall prove it. What busi-
ness have you at any rate to interfere in this affair?"
"More business than you. Why come here, when not called? Me sent for
the hunter, not for you."
The officer started. " You sent for him? you?"
Yes me-why wonder?"
"You sent an Indian boy, did you not?"
There was so much painful suspense in his tone, that Wild Rose was touched.
So humoring him she replied: "Yes me did, ask any more questions now?"
But thg Lieutenant was satisfied. . A light began to dawn in his benighted
mind and he conimenced to have serious doubts about the justice of his jeal-
ous suspicions. So much did the strong emotions of his heart overpower him
that he could neither stir or speak, standing for a while the helpless prey of his
excitement.
This pause was at cnce improved by the hunter. His first joyous start at the
sight of his betrothed had yielded to the admiration of her splendid bearing in
her encounter with, his foe.  He stepped, as it were, out of himself, loosin-
sight of the lover over the enthusiastic spectator; but when the voices of thR
speakers died away he returned to reality and himself.  Never before had he
been so fully conscious of the deep love, with which this wondef-ful creature had
inspired him and extending both his arms towards the maiden, who all the
while had kept her back to him, he cried with the thrilling-accents of a power-
ful passion: "Wild Rose! my dear, my noble bride!"
The body of the girl quivered with excitement, but her face remaizfined averted
from the hunter as before. Now for the first time, it struck him, that this per-
sistent effort on her part, to ignore his presence was something more than caus-
ual. A fear of some.impending evil, the thought of the possibility of losing this
lovely.mdiden oppressed his heart with so much force as almost to deprive hin
ophis breath. A pain shook his system and finally found vent in an exclama-
tion fraught with all the conflicting emotions struggling in his bosom. "Rose!"
This time the girl was incapable of resisting the conjuration. She turned he'
(head, asif driven by an irresisttable power;,btt the glance she cast at him, was
evidently intended as one of crushing severity. Still all powerful love .lurked
behind her indignation, as the sun behind the parting clouds of the thunder-
storm. It also manifested itself in her voice Jor though her words were word.,
of accusation, their acrimony was tempered by softer feelings.
," What you call me for? Why you say.with tongue, what heart not know
You- call me '4dear'-go to the maiden in the Fort-she dear yhe listen t
your words--the ear of Wild Rose is deaf-it cannotlisten; her ;  rt is closed.
.Robert's grief was almost aralyzed by his bewilderment. " Rose wvhat doe.

:1
t'
f

r-        - ---r-     a..   w    -,.   , .,   ....... ..  ..,.   ._.._._... ...

aYi.iacal Mwa+wa + +   ea.+. °'4...^mwu.L.vw+c+                                 ",X344Ww-                          8                  vF"4.          '           -  1         , ... "  ~                                                                                      1                   "                    i
1 ri atyy         -                                                                 ,r            "      *   L      5  f.   °r           , 1    pyt"                    M -,4         "-"      ....  WOMNI
'  ifs                  t   4
om  f       f        '''^ ' r,.        °7        ,.J                                                                                             -rvm..w w    '+ws^ 'a RWt=rM1a..a .ar...
-ij  .a7
2ri,          ,i"           "m   .' "'. ;'y'""r      g .sxn+ r  M r ''r $^s,    ;,         ,"            ..,                       1.. v :                          ;
!ri     +-,wta r                         i «   w1 §

r...... -.?

Sr

r ^- . :vv r~i.w .c., r =w..ww rar.tsc ,

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.

t
ij
At   ir
}  '

-
y
3
1
777
F
.p


A

I'
1
S ia
$}'
It

THE WIt. ROSE Of 'TtIE  EAVER,
this signify?' he cried with looks and accents of injured innocence. " Has the
world gone mad and resolved to upset my reason too? Sp~ak, what do your
strnge uphraidings mean,?"
"You not know? You not know maiden at Fort?" Wild Rose asked eagerly.
"If you;mean Rosa Anderson, certainly I do. Is there an harm in knowing
the daughter of my oldert and best friend?"
" You not only know-you love her!"
"Again this strange insinuation. There must be a cotspi'acy to fasten this
upon me; else how should you repeat the accusations of this ciazy officer?"
" I accuse you no longer Robert, and humbly beg pardon formy foolishness?"
The others 'were too much engaged with themselves to heed this exclamation.
",If you iot love her why go out in canoe? Rose eagerly asked the hunter,
" Rose, how can you speak so?" Robert laid reproachfully. 'Is a ride on
the river an evidence of love?"
"When not love, why jump in river and risk your life?"
"\Well, this is really strange! My Wild Rose is evidently jealous and that
passion neutralizes all' her virtues. Rose,.you want to know why I jumped into
the river to save one of your sex-a woman?"
Wild Rose looked abashed for a, moment, but recovering rapidly under the
impulse of a new thought, said almost sternly: " I fear Big Jump has a forked
tongue. He talks sweetly to the ear, but his words cannot enter the heart of
Vild Rose. Did not the father of the maiden say the hunter would soon lead
his daughter into his wigwam?"
I will'not deny but that he has often intimated such a wish, though it sur-
passes my comprehension how you ever heard of it, Tell me, Rose, what tale
bearer has thus prejudiced you against me?"
As the girl hesitated the hunter continued in mournful accents: " Rose you
have the heart to fling these accusations in my face, and yet refuse to let me
know from whence'they spring. Do youcondernwithout a chance of defence?"
"What good will it do to know? You canot deny. Red Feather no lie!"
"Red Feather!" Robert exclaimed in astonishment., ' Ah!.now I know.
While I kindly took that serpent to my bosom he endeavored to inflict a deadly
wound. But the day of reckoning will come. I owed him a grudge before but
like a good natured fool cancelled the account. This time, however, he 'won't
fare so well; for I vow to satisfy this injury with his blood!"
This was a savage. threat and would have alarmed a girl of gentler educa
tion. With Wild Rose the case was different. The words of the hunter were
in accordance with her notions, and her jealous indignation was gradually over
- come by the rising waves of love and admiration.~ She looked at the hunter
with a look of old; but in his excitement he failed to notice it.
" The chief did lie, Rose, but if you really believe his statement in preference
to mine I cgyprove my words. This officer is, or lately was, the lover of Rose
Anderson 1i44l he began to labor under the delusion that I had meddled with
his love. Ile can testify to this, if jealousy has not obscured his mind."
N5

k  U-w  h 'A   - ~..  . _.c'     F  _- T.L ' '.1 '.  -.," . ..  ..

Tt WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.                83
The Liedtenant winced -under these cutting remarks, but without anger.
I have acted like a madmin,the said, "and therefore 'cannot complain- for
being so considered. But I have discovered my mistake  The Indian lalwho
betrayed this, rendezvous, in speaking of a Rose teant not "Rose An person."
The eyes of Wild Rose flashed fire. She stepped up to the office and said
angrily; " Who told? What Indian lad do you mean ?"
"I, mean a youth going by the name of Red Fox:"
The girl uttered a cry of indignation.
"You must not blame him, ' the Lieutenant'replied, "for he never mneant to
betray his trust. "It was fire-water'that' drew it frdm him."
" And so youi having beenaware of'this-'rendezvous all the time, I''now un-
derstand your change of conduct. But w hy did you not seak? Ydu caine very
near causing great distfrss by your mad jealousy."
" I know I am to blame; but if you knew what I suffered in these days of sus-
pense, you would deem 'me amply puiiished-for my want of confidence."
"Your face shows it, poor fellow. Well, Rose,'ddy ou want more testimony?
Shall'I"lead you to the Fort, that you may learn from the lips of both father
and daughter, how much you have wronged me by this cruel suspicion?"
Wild Rose was conquered. Stepping n eekly up to the hunter and taking
one of his hands in both of hers, she said with her face averted: " Wild Rose
has been wrong; she has bitterly wronged her'husband."
" So, that will do?' the young man cried with a joyous voice. "No more
self-accusations, darling. Come to my heart,,for that is where you belong,"
He tried to draw her into his embrace, but; she-resisted, keeping her face
averted all the while. " My husband does not know all," she said, gently shak-
Ing her head. " When he knows aIl, he'll turn from Wild Rose and leAve her."
"Rose, what can you mean? Do not torture you self xxwith idle fears! What
could you have done to alienate me from you?"
"The heartof Wild Rose was angry; jealousy blinded her. She 'told hier
brothers to watch for the girl and snatch her away-they ire now on.her trail."
Did you really do that; Roe:'  And' vhat would you do vi'th the prisoner?"
"I hardly know. I w nted to strike'the heart ofimy husband. I'wanted to
make him feel vhat it is be deprived of o1ieV sunshine, of all the prospects of
happiness for a long wre bed life."
These words had been uttered"in the Delaware tongue, as most all the words
which Wild Rose had spoken in passion of excitement. At such time we use
,our mother tongcne, and I have tried to imitate such jgssages by rendering them
in their full flow, thus distinguishing'them from thd utterances maide in broken
English.     9:
When' Robert after this confession gain endeavored to dwaxx Wild Rose to
1his heart she nolonger resisted.
"''hus," the hunter exclaimed, thegreat happiness ofhis heai refle:ted on his
face. "Our peace is made my dear beautiful wife. Henceforth Ishall not al:
low you to leave  for I do not want new differercqs to come between us."

t:
-'                 ,#
'{{#
a.}
4
'          ig
fi
_
F           _
t7
i     !
'      t;
Y

..

L.

IMP
i

. - ---.- .-   .- ..i atsa  4'L "+5d' r . _ -s- asst= 1           .:'w"..:                                                                                                                                               -                                                                           "       _ _                   #
R-.,,         ,....,  ..  .._.                           _              "'                         -            -                                                                                                                      +... .   z            _  . c              _  .  . - -_    7  to      . =    .


li

IE

i
I
I

..                              ._

_                  e              'e_-.              _'  a  T  f            Y~      i  . } '  y  .td   .  .

84              TJIE wILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.
Wild Rose shook her head and said: " Myhusband must let me go fora few
(lays more. Wild Rose must take her brothers from,\the maiden's trail and bid
her father farewell. Her husband need not fear; she will not doubt again."
" So you want to run off again, you little vagabond? Lieutenant, do-you.
think it safe to let her go?"
"Indeed it would! She is a wonderful woman, and if I had not my affection
already fixed I would feel inclined to turn the tables, and become your rival."
Exactly my fix," the hunter said laughing. " If I had not already loved
Rose Number One, I should have fallen in love with Number Two. See how
our Roses resemble each other, as if grown on the same stalk! Do they not?"
"Rather as one grafted on the stalk of the other. They are both beautiful
and loveable, and there is no cause for jealousy between us."
"Spoken from the bottom of my heart. Here is my hand, Lieutenant, and
the offer of a firm friendship. There has been a cloud between us from the
start; but now it is removed, and I do not see why we should not be friends,"
" Nor I, Campbell. I always acknowledged your great merits, and now I
shall love you as sincerely as I admired."
"And'so will I. This is truly a gratifying conclusion to a perplexing diffi-
culty. Instead of losing my little wife, as I thought I should, I gain a friend.'
But Rose is getting restless. What is the matter child?",
Wild Rose must go. Her brothers'might harm the maiden."
"That sounds plausible. And wh n shall I call the Wild Rose my own?"
The maiden mused, and with a slight blush on her cheeks said:
"In one week from to-day Wild Rose will follow her husband to his wigwam:"
Agreed! "Robert exclaimed. " Let me seal this compromise with a .kiss.
And now seeing that my little bird is eager to fly off, let us come to -an under-
standing. You, Lieutenant, of course are eager to reach the Fort, to make
peace with your pouting mistress. I can assure you she played the flirt all
these days with a bad grace, and when I got her out of the water the first word
after her return to consciousness was your name. So I suppose she is anxious
enough to see you, though her face may possibly belie her feelings."
"Oh! thank you for this comforting assurance, Robert. But I suppose I
shall have to make my way alone; for you will want to see this friend of yours
at least a part of the way home?"
You are not mistaken, sir," the hunter said with a smile. " She is a wild i
bird you know and if I do not watch her some, her natural instinct may take"
her off to regions unknown."
After this they parted, the Lieutenant hastening with all speed towards the
Fort, but the hunter and his companion wandering-in another direction towards-
the place where the Delaware town was situated.
They had tottell each other so much and were so completely wraped up in
their new b6rna happiness, that for once the watchfulness of their sense left
them. The hunter, who generally keeps his keen eye wandering all aronnd
reading the signs of the woods as the well trained scholar does his A. B. C., in

THE WILD ROSE OF TIE BEAVER,               8S
this instance had no thought but her who now walked at his side, and had in-
dicated her willingness to soon light up his home with her beauty and loveliness.
We need, therefore, not wonder that after their departure the figure of an
Indian rose from the dense bushes of the Big Knob, revealing the dark features
of no less a person'than Red Feather. The chief had ,stealthily followed the
trail of Wild Rose, and thus become the witness of a reconciliation, which to-
tally blasted his new born hopes. His countenance therefore bore a sinister ex-
pression, and when he prepared to leave the place where he had endured a
long mental torture, he'balled his fists and shook it after the departing couple
with a mein portending little good. Woe to them if his power of harmirigis
equal to his desire of doing so.
Instant pursuit, however, did not seem to lie in the plans of the chief. In-
stead of following on the track of the couple, he took a more north-eastern di-
rection, calculated to bring him to the Connequenessing about ten 'miles above
its junction with the Beaver. He did not ain'at speed, and thereforereached
the creek about the hour of twilight. He wandered up and down the bank as
if he were in search of something, until at last a look of satisfaction seemed to
indicate that his intention' had not been in vain. Stepping to the water's edge,
he pushed some bushes aside, but starting back he uttered a cry of surprise,
which showed that something very unexpected must have met his eye. This
something at once-rose from the bush in- the shape of another Indian, who as-
cended the bank, until he stood opposite-the chief.
"Ugh!" Red Feather exclaimed, " what does a Seneca chief do in Maghpi-
way's canoe?
"Eaglehead waited for his brother, the chief; he knew Red Feather was
coming."
".Eaglehead must be very wise then; for he knew something, of which Red
Feather himsealf was ignorant dntil this afternoon.' What does Eaglehead
wish of his brother?"
He would borrow his canoe from him to go up the Neshannock."
Is he alone?"
" No, there is a party of warriors with him, which will be here presently."
"But why do they not walk to the Neshannock! The water course is wind-
ing and tedious. Surely Eaglehead and his companions are strong enough to go."
"But he wishes to leave no trail behind."
"Ugh! Is he not going to be at the conference?"
"No! Eaglehead will never make peace with the white man; he'll strike
him unto the day of his death!"
"Ugh! my brother speaks Maghpiway's heart; but my hands are tied at
present. The Beaver is going to make peace, and I must feign submission to
his wishes, if I do not want to lose my influence with the tribe."
"Why does the chief tell this to his brother?"
"To show ,him, that he sympathizes with him. But-listen, your men are
coming."

41
4
{}
4               ,

5I
1
I '
WAf
t  '

k .      ...

s
r        A
' -n

T

a   =rJ


i  E
y     I
t    4

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.

This did not all seem to suit the Seneca 'chief, and he scowled at the Dela-
ware in a very ugly manner. For a moment he appeared to entertain intentions
of a decided hostile character, for his hand began to play n rvously about the
handle-of his scalping knife; but suddenly he seemed to ch nge his notion, for
the suspicious movements ceased, and with a bland an  courteous smile he
said:  "Maghpiway is right. He'll soon see my youn men coming.  He'll
also see a prisoner; butEaglehead would thank him t shut his eyes. It might
hurt the chief to look too sharply."
Maghpiway nodded. " I understand my brother: he need not be afraid.
Maghpiway is accustomed to mind his own business. Is it a pale-face?"
Instead of an answer Eaglehead pointed in the direction of the forest, through
which several dusky forms were approaching. They were six in all, leading
in their midst a white woman, who seemed to be much fatigued and in very
low spirits, for two of the men more dragged than led her. When'they were
near enough to allow a recognition of her features, Red Feather gage an invol.
untary start and he might have indulged in In exclamation, if Eagiehead had
not previously warned him. This was Delaware territory, to be sure, but Mag-
hipway being alone deemed it better not to put his finger into a piety tat was not
of his baking. So he not only remained silent, but also turned his t ce from the
prisoner, leaving it uncertain whether he wanted to' avoid seeing or being scen.
Looking significantly at Eaglehead, he said in an under tone:
"Maghpiway now understands his Brother. He does indeed wel to destroy
his trail; for if it is found the pale-faces will never stop until they find its end."
"Red Feather will not lend ,them his eyes?"
"Of course he will not; for Eaglehead could shut them forever. -Still, he
would ask the Seneca chief a favor." " If he will lend him his warriors for a
little while he will show-himself very grateful."
"Where are the warriors of Red Feather? They are not dead?1'
"No, but I cannot use them for the work in store. Maghpiway vants to do
like his brother: he wants to take a prisoner. After he has talent him, he
wants to send him to his brother, Eaglehead."
"Ugh! Eaglehead has enough with one.prisoner-he does not vant to but-
den himself with a second one."
"My brother shall not keep him long.:- Maghpiway will come soon to re-
lieve him. When he comes, it will not be with empty handh"
The Seneca left this tempting remark unanswered.
Maghpiway has some fine red bla'nkets he'll share .them with Ihis brother,
Eaglehead."
Eaglehead has many blankets."
"Maghpiway will give him a gocd rifle."
"Our brethren, the English, give us all the rifles we want."
Has my-brother plenty of powder!"
His horn is never empty."
Well, let me tell him something: Maghpiway knows a lead m'ne."

t-

s       i
Z
i    3
A, r    Cpp
r
F
5
l
F
f
_      i
fey   i
aF
f
a
" Z
i
3s     r
It,
i
i

86

- _ 'v9r      '                    Y                 . n'Y  _          _     _ _    _          'i        ^_s   y_- ..   5 ,              rr fi'.  3 -  . 'r T       _ _ _       R    .e             -  _    k_ .   r.                   '' {..
+  °      -     i ice. e1.r.  .P« .- w--           'd .. i' 1 v im  ...iiN.     . j, ~oy, -
t  C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Wr^"rte                          _                 '      r

THE WILD P0St~ OF THE BEAVER                 87
This conmtuication had conquered the Seneea's stoicism. A whole mine of
lead! The thought was too powerful to be borne unmoved. - Maghpiwayre-
sumed: "If Eaglehead helps his brother, Maghpiway will tell him the place."
Eaglehead mused a moment. "What will Maghpiway do with the prisoner?
Will he let him'escape to tell a tale?"
An expression of intense hatred passed over the face of the chief.  Bending
his head to the other's ear, he said: " He will bprn him at the stake; black
bones tell no tale,"
"'Then Eaglehead" will do it, When is Red Feather going to show him the
lead?"                                           r
"When the prisoner sings his death song."
"It is well; how many warriors does my brother want?"
"Can Eagleijead spate four?"
"He can. How soon can they be with him again?"
" In a few days at least; where does Eaglehead intend to go?"
Does the'chief know the cave on the Neshannock?"
"tHe does."
"Very well-there Eaglehead will await his coming.'
During this interval the warriors had halted with the prisoner at a respectful
distance from the chiefs. Eaglehead now stepped up to them and spoke a few
words, after which two ot them stepped into the canoe with the girl, the rest
joining Red Feather,  When the Seeca chief prepared to follow the smaller
party into the vessel, Maghpiway sal ted him, saying; "May my brother lave
a safe journey. I shall try to blind t e eyes of the pale-faces."
With this the canoe started down  stream, the chief taking gdool care to de-
stroy all traces of the embarkation,  was not very likely that he would suc-
ceed in misleading 'askillful pursuer y this alone; but in'addition to other
fneasures it might, considerably puzzle him. To accomplish this he now set
about causing the ;four warriors to star in four differeht directions into the for-
'est, and striking 'himself a fifth one, th s managing to-create a profusion of
tracks, which must necessarily perplex  e party or parties, who, as he knew,
would soon be in pursuit. He instructed he warriors to continue their course
to the next run; and to turn off and all con e back on the trail, which they had
made on their first passage through the woods. This they did, reaching the
place of starting at a moment when the veil of darkness began' to spread more
thickly over the region, hiding them as well'asths woods, in which, under the
directions of the chief, they lay themselves in ambush. When everything was
arranged they observed the deepest ,silence, lstening with a sharp ear' for the
approaching footstep of the victim they were ready to ensnare.

ii,

i
i
D
,r       3
i
1
t
i
s
1
t
x
.
t
S
1
;
}
+JfM' M

:i

i                                      ,"'ra; ." e ,-,.,: " : Jsq .i+y  tk %S Tl4 +f"                                S_  " ~      77
r,.  .            t       _               yt ' ;;,f  :i ,'+:'     -  '"t."s.   -         k '.                  ; 1'*Y  3 F,, y     ,  rih sf-..     ,a'  ..,
i

11

i


~' 't

s
k
a
4
i           j7k ( t
ii
4
i
r
_x
2
E
i
3
Y

'  + . .'  x,! c .   r . ,r  r.:  r : ',"  c.   .4

'   '. -..'a '

88               THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.
After trying tc
the riverbank, a
landing for gene
CHAPTER X.                                             with vigorous st
A TRAPPER ENTRAPPED.                                      on the water an
When Lieutenant Sanders reached the Fort, he saw Grace standing in the            ferent craft, req
door of the blockhouse with rather a troubled mien.' He walked up to h r, and      previous knowle
no sooner had she seen his countenance, when her face brightened) in a meas-       Fort.
ure. Walking a few steps to meet him, she exclaimed: " Thank God' here's            Like all his c
one friendly face at last. 'I was near dying with restlessness."                   except fully eqi
" But what's the matter, Aunt Grace?" he inquired, slightly startled b_ her      hawk with him
excited manners.  .                                                                them.
"The matter? Enough's the matter to set a person crazy.  There's  avid  -          Having.starte
to commence with. He fell this morning dislocating his ankle in such a way         lower island nee
as to lay him up for a week at least."                                             canoe of Rosaa
" That's bad Indeed-may I go in to see him?"                                     had become vis
" No indeed, sir, fbr there is other work at hand, that wants attention. IRose   the southern poi
has been missing ever since ten o'clock this morning."                             the bank, he no
" Missing?" the Lieutenant inquired, becoming also alarmed. " How can she        was trampled d
be missing? has she left the Fort?"  Jof one or severs
"Of course she'has, or surely I would be able to find her. She left the F ort    sticking only a:
and, I guess, went on the river."                                                  lock of gold, w
"But what makes you think sd?"                                                   lock was broke
" Well, she went fretting theIwhole morning about a necklace her father gave     been lost., Sa
her, when she -was a baby'. She dropped iton'the island, she said, when she        cover' was by1
cameoar drowning the other day, and was only sived through the efforts of          land.  Somebo
Robert Campbell;- other persons who had a better right to do.it, being absent     felt convinced.
as usual." continued. Th
" Aunt Grace, don't scold me-now, but rather tell me, how she went, so I          island, a-nd the
may at once start in search of h,er."                                               bound, gig ed
" Ah! that sounds sensible. Well sir, at ten o'clock I missed her'fi-st, and      every doubt wa
when I inquired, was told, that she had been seen with crazy Peter on the river     her companion
bank."                   --unknown. W
You mean,Peter, the drummer boy?"                                              meanwhile? W
"Yes; it seems, that, failing to find somebody else, the thoughtless girl went   ble? -The firs
off with this half-witted drummer boy."                                             effort to revive
"Well, Peter handles a paddle as well as anybody; so,-if that is all you fret    the gag that tic
about, you may rest easy."                 -edge, and byt
But it isn'tall. It is nigh four o'clock now, and they could have been back     the satisfactioin
long ago. If I could only paddle a canoe, I'd go at once; but as it is, I can do  -  gan the use of
nothing but stay at home and fret, as you express it.'"                             and this restor
WeUl, Aunt, I can paddle, and I shall go without delay; so do stop fret-         The story was
ting, andget a good supper ready, for I'll warrant you, we shall fetch a mon-      way is substan
strous appetite along, Aunty. Good bye."                                               The two adv

3

-

THE WILD- ROSE OF THE BEAVER.                89
o cheer poor Grace in this way the Lieutenant hastened down to
nd jumping into-one of the canoes, that were always tied to the
ral use, he shoved it into the river, and began to pull up stream
rokes., In the East he had spent a great portion of his=time
d became an expert oarsman. The canoe, of course, was a dif-
uiring different handling; but with constant practice and his
dge, Sanders soon paddled his canoe as well as anybody in the
comrades in the Fort, he made it a practice, never to leave it,
dipped, and he had on this occasion his rifle, knife and toma-
, never dreaming though, that he might be called upon to use
ed from the Fort about four o'clock, he reached the foot of the
early an hour later. He had every moment expected to see the
and her companion;, but thus far no.sign of either craft or crew
ible, and Sanders began to be a little restless, \Vhenshe reached
nt, he saw that a canoe had lately landed there, and on searching
ticed traces of what appeared to him a struggle. The ground
own, and in a manner indicative' of violent exertions on the part
al individuals. All at once .Sanders perceivedla shining object
little out of sand. , Picking it up, he at once recognized a little
ith which a string of pearls was once held together. Now the
en, thus accounting for the manner in-which the necklace had'
nders hed often been it around Rosa's neck: but yet its dis-
no means a certain indication of the girl's second visit to the is-
idy had, of course been there, and recently too; of that Sanders
But to gain further information his examinations had to be
te marks and tracks in the sandy soiled him to the centre of the
re he discovered to his greatest surprise and con-sternation the
, and almost lifeless fprm of poor Peter, the drummer boy. Now
is gone. Rosa Anderson had indeed been on the islaird,, and
had received a truly barbarous treatment at the hands of parties
would they remain to be so? How had the poor girl herself fared
Vas she still living, and, if so, in a condition to make life . s" a-
t step to the solution of these problems must,'necessarybe. an
poor Peter. After cutting the thongs, that held his limbs, and
ed his tongue, Sanders carrie1 the senseless body t, the water's
he constant application of the cool and invigorating liquid, had
i of seeing the boy open his eyes, and after a little while also be-
his tongue. The Lieutenant gave him a good drai1(of whiskey,
ed the boy sufficiently to give an account of what had happened.
.rather broken and incoherent, but what he told the officer n that
tially .as follows:
-enturers had reached the island about twelve o'clock, and landed

Y

WTI

c

- g   ,s
#a                                        ,
°= t
t
t                                                         fit,
A                             a          "* S
--                         "       '                                                                                                                    ,e
.                            -                                                                                                                                             -.  ,.,,,..t
y.++'a °e^.,c-   NM   -... -vs,.J YYdr,.....r.H+ r. w.. i..4hN,+ . rb...-avri .Y:a+w O!*++.. s i,"a,. . s+ ety't'#oS3--+ ;   i     1

F
.... "-,-- .6....e .-u.

':.ice  - -.'s:      para.-.rAe.:i .., ,a..o..  ara L. +"i_1               .   ..
. a _ ...     _  .,.  _      W      __

+.1
1

;
x
f   !+F
3
i
b
f
.,    f.
i
t
{
a
4
.
rf
_
"                     g

Ilk

i l


4
i
Z
4
l
R          }
"
5
"
f
y
'1
d
i
' _ 1
tg .
w          '
~4
i       n
r
IF
1

90               THE 'V4QR9i              SIyR
at the southern point.  T{ e  ypslggg(yp ge Alapbadh and comn  nced a
dh i''eenIe      i llans r .hne4t ah ei si ggithe girl at once. The
.  69, bhd4Ad ,   in    to R    tetb4        einiakei only after a severe
ttfuglte,1 6k  ,fsc h etombdgo ppej bjnkrwithJds captors. Accord-
-Pt efy "6riorhis rei t'ngqfa it 94q 1  hesfsavages to such a de-
eti       h      a          t       l mr F g  ier ed, leaving him in so
p'alrifnl1id197tidf"n6ditiof1 tIa  jtg eJya Wahama made the work of
ilesi   ie,,%riakhan tIs  eter could not tell; the savages had dragged him
to such an impenetrable thick et1thatel etygg yenjn bierto inform Sanders onf
vhidh' ide EheIninsu ad; fe etecht elggi gg- b ,.e} .
Straiige   E ns f;feling.           rgrg   betyoung man had looked
-upod    a RsAnderon almost with hatred and tried to kill her supposed-lover-
kand now he vas .deeply aicet.ly grjp sn4lisbechfor nothing more zeal-
dusly 'thaii thesistance6(tl6 I Igter, in 9r4 r support him with his su-
eriskilea nd  pei-e Enfgr reggvw .           jgtriysould he inform him in
the shortest   y p osibe? {T.hregv tQ byoijngbno hesitating in this in-
stie; thos' ofildr           t rp    ih     o the girl, and feeling this;
fieligifalso, that a'contiiget aivfy v  th he tantidote for a troubled
h'eart-lhyidet to Work without cdel.. ,Attelping the boy into the canoe and
winhhoie toegian t     gpel tly ng  doin7stream with a rapidity
whi hrbprosised to so6n taikegpe.t to tlle la  g g  the Fort. All at once,'
however, their progress was iiiterrgt l i  -gher+unexpected manner. A
{'ear 'shrill whistle emanatingrrontthe, eigt, ;above the right bank struck
Sahdedrs  ia andi ed 'him  t oce   stppismpaddle. On looking in the di-
rectidi of the"ound, e pei-eivgd,, g gg ,d in drinking sigijs. The lad ap-
peare'd fanilliar'to himii dfd pn a segndlggace1the Lieutenant recognized the
Re    od, h0'l hadborne so pr  inerppIthtig  intentional a role in the're-
cent drama. If he had hgitatecto an ve tlesignal at first, this recognition
ptilt doubts at rest and bheco ii g to th lagMe  rned the head of the canoe
toward" themhore.  Whe  re reaciesit,; thedindian also stepped from the
thickdetaid with a nod of'recygnitjo offerecbis hnd.
"It is you, Red F'ox ,I see" the .igg eiant ;ai. accepting the proffered hand;
"and froni  iur desire to communicate w ib me I judge you know something
of this terrib eaftair?"
Me nog    Indian steal girl!"
" Yoi say that very coolly, my lac . f I was you, I would be somewhat°.
ashaiiied of suchinri.
M th;okin,  ne Delaware,}ganydfte  they Seneca, good for nothing."
"Sbthed ono t'beld  to your inbp?"     d
Sehec .'
Y u'-seeros tive of ihat. at onm y d  you count?"
"Counted chiefA1ti six warrirs."
"Did they-I fear to ask you the question-did they do her any harm?"
"No, treated her very good-chiemake sqaa, me think."
a                                          p

42

.... _. _         ,..,...                                                                                 .::                                                    .r.      ..  .:.a...   "..   a       .,...   .lY ,IY            If:;...

Sanders hardlyki  t whe haIi Wdcti centot itQ    ee rpo
not. It made the gid safdTh atfig  e4,ut 9~ erefY  fgggg rgn 3Qt '
horrid future unless her-friends succeeded in xespuint hena: h ghtg
reminded him ot-threiode tftIfs 4Al i
4Which svay 4dk   #tu t   ib ? } least:          t      {t
"Up this way" hi eph  , b ti '°WWiat}east.
"Had I not better tr ttd  itale th  a e&amp;  'Ai etc eu /ot rokt-1
the garrison; .btif you oti  b  on@ iltae  a W ae 4       te
them at once androehdk iMh hf
A somewhat dersi e s  a    dui    l 1s of Rec
"May be; yougt tFirfff $2t}  o'fi 1e
"Why, youF'tlome t=_pect4to@ ohtei ny  o ef± ut  I?"
No, not betternchek, bt etffldd1bNer eyes f fo
" '  well- that naagd;be  , idI " adiolbfea   fa e  fa h  yh -Ung .tlc  w  r I
might just as wellga;tidI  l ni6fail to nc1 soi t    tfe  ice
knowing  the deod dlA  g l  i  uns.- SW11nyhutilo1n h   ot0
"Me go; bhutd edu xvoPNo fic t     pgosit      e     Senq  g
camp or scalp-r-g'24A ki iifitint  fbre1eiti teeences
In accordapnceiwith ist sheW'   11 i  teI ,iie en  th Int al  Te
changed tileiri-oeso "FM tdi8F4  idfi te anoen    fler tcep
sary instructions started  i  t ?dlse.  Ii da&amp;tnln  r  4h1,to.i tKt.
} vacated seati.propei th  nergithii    chptihMI~
equal skill dwith,bides1 s) d rt  ntle91 enrtie'ecurr   beign thei
favor, theytath dsthe landiHg beA t c s  eld k, 'hir-ar r  lcreated: lie e
a sensationi!tJhe news df 3R s   en'ce 2hkc  elpfthis tune sp} ad ,ll. p c :t b E
Fort, apd soetiger d the=pe V jii-e oithe Plain  asc ip the eason
of Peter's irtfirnyth nd aien6e o ea',that'the  wae:comers cotull1 l algd
dlisembark: khawdr e etitlhs ehc' tic s .at~o~nce  i ypys
possible. But lidI&amp;Pkte= tead l 6k 6kil lt efcthe Indiajpoked9phgvith
a smile, showing hir ownlhdaiifta1d'sof $$stpeiio ity e I hIntp n e fft
to answergt until the crod  eiti' t&amp; used aside andl Iobgr ,ampbeIL
came in ieub ITheirdreoghiton  Iuas mtiudal , lRt xeaexcile  Isat
you, my ,bbyatrt prse e e li'ei' ise ideaceYhat ou n . iput the
aff' ir. Let us havydour toiT qidok l fbi we 6gtto  be  u1le
ofese scoundrels a god hile ao'".
The Indian:gave  diott  concesihketchdof the abaucbion1 bt  he  -:
related how :he came to sxvap phces with 'the Lieut  e  p  s  d
"He ,neantgxell/ butatilaffai'al  willys ijtery ihlt 1y aggfy  c utNoptf; -
Perhaps by starting without delay-ed'rtyetefiske i a d thps p1e n
m ischief:  A s  the   sc un atedsl r   e t dh d s b r  sitk i  ma  te husil e s
c                    o ra~nvhest'prhps    .we {may eadl tbern,- l
Red Foxstrong enough telh. k iesage to Beaer' itiYout &amp;la?"
"RedFoxneweretaetired."
"I  reckonr tbb at@Wbild  ve{lyi  1d 01 Ae  essp tacted mor.
If he wants metp thiklwelof hin 16 l  117d48  ne e
If e w sa e tot'l i - i o Iiilet   5  ton~e td Beaver and say: Big
i-       -.

R

I~

-'.SP°Y 3e au  Xa"'   ",                    +
s,'  :  - ay;--" _         t    J    '  '34  xn-.'   srh-   .A n'n N.o-, .e  .  L  wrt  _    f :' l*"7a . ''4frM . l'      A - '%      _   '-°"'

s    ' c                ilss                                         - {                               -           -    ".               -     -                                                         ,              - +4 M1 :M1i          -   -  Y " S   "L t,) 'j   :+fi+  "S -   .a
. .,    .., +.s-"_..,   ..    ... .      .._   -     --,.T  '" - w. rm..y       ar ..4'b-    ,. .+s._we.. n_     e..., wN" .. .....,..r. .....   .-_... .. ....,,.......  e      .. «r..a-v-                            4,.;.. . -inn,: -,.  wr
-                                                                                    i

TL

ilk
ELI a4 )                               "
a          -      r
a          rw                a           r
"
d1
{' a 9:
a {j
}
1     "           "
r                        r

. . r ..rilfllrill

" s   -  ,.

ii.
V*
1'c
4
M      '

I


', ; -w'

t'
4
d
- F
4
t 1
d
V
4
C 4

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.

3
zY
I
'I
3
e   v

field at
ert, ho
All he
what t
a whit
plishec
and. do
.vas u~
ationis
would
nidenc
this tri
of the
the do
' The
sn uffii
from
soon  t
night

Jump sends me; he wants eaver to send fifty warriors-north-east as fast as he
can, to intercept a band of robbers. Red Feather must not be with them, Did
the Red Fox understand?"
As'the youth nodded he turned to one of the mnen and said: ." Walker will
you take take him to Mrs. Jones-and see that he gets a good supper. The most
willing mind is worthless without a vigorous body to supportit. Good-bye my
boy; .God speed you! And now to my men. .ousee how it is. A handful of
impudent Senecas have stolen our comrade's daughter at our very threshhold.
If we suffer this they'll repeat the trespass. This must not be; we are therefore
going to pursue the thieves! But to pursue is not enough. To catch, so sly a  4
fo requires all the ability you can muster. Let each man therefore do his duty.
Tou will first take a substantial supper and then start. Sergeant Willoughby.
has been placed in command. He knows where I will meet him in the morn-
ing, for I mean to start ahead of you and hunt up the lair of the game before
you strike the blow. Farewell lads; to-morrow we'll meet again."
There is something in a speech sometimes./ That of Robert had the effect of
electrifying his men and caused them to enter cheerfully upon this duty. He
himself did not wait to vatch the result. After a hasty farewell to Grace and,
poor Anderson, who was doubly miserably on account of his disability and his
mental ag py, he started on his night march through woods containing neither
road nor path. Does the reader realize what it is to travel at night in a dense
forest abounding with thorns, bushes; stumps, logs, rocks, ravines and the like.
_ I have seen men lose their way at nigit in a newly ploughed field with a few
charred stumls standilnh abou t Ye t a a iffreer thr is bz~tO t t

p        g     .   C%     d     eencewerese   ween such                 Hisiii fedepene upon UI el eaLLI a qL   Ieso,
id the forest through which Robert Campbell had to trace his way. Rob-         fore brought to play all those admirable qualities for which he was famous,and
wever, did not go quite alone. He wasaccompanied by a little dog of           five minutes had hardly elapsed before he reached the cover of the'forest and
ficant appearance, but of his-own training and which he prized greatly.        was enabled to stand up without exposing his person. Now he doubled his
had to say was merely "Spy, look out now," and the (log at once knew          speed' and soon a full half mile lay between him and his dangerous foes. Here
he matter was. He could distinguish the trail of an Indian from that of       Robert checked his speed. He was not prepared to do battle single-Janded,
e man, and oice on the track would never tire until his work was accom~V       but it wvas still less his intention to run. He could do little or nothing .durnng
1. It      olwas wonderful to see the complete understanding between master  '  the night, the trail being lost in the creek; but he was determined to stay 'near
)g. The least sign of the former, ,the most trifling motion of the latter     his foes; ing9rderto watch his chancesfor striking a blow.
nderstoodl by each in turn, and more than once the dog'had shared situ-         The Indians in the meantime waited for the mognent when sleep would Ten-
with his master so perilous that a single bark or the wagging of his tail      der their supposed victim aq easy prey. Maghpiway had at once recognized
have betrayed them. But tongue and tail were still, and Robert's con-Y        the voice of Big Jump, and he felt a grim exultation at thp thdhght-of so speedy
e in his four-footed friend was unbounded. When kobert started out on          a gratification to his vengeance. He touched the warrior by his side, fearing
p he merely held a garment belonging to Rosa Anderson before the nose          to engage is attention by a more noisy de nstratio.*,Maghpiway might
dog, and said: "Spy, stolen eek!" Upon which the animal sprang to            have nmge the signal for an immediate a s ut 19well knew that Big Jump
or, and expressed great impatience to be off.                                  could'nolekaken without a desperate strggle; and learning from his solilo-
first six or seven miles the dog remained inactive,-but, now, and then        quy his intention of seeking sleep he resolved to wait until a deeper breathing
g the air as if in search of a, scent. When they reached that distance         indicated his arrival at a state of unconscousness.
he Fort, Spy showed signs of restlessness. He ran here and there'but            Thus half hour elapsed; but, in spit'of the stillness no breathingof a
ook a course lying a little to the left of the once hitherto pursued. The      sleeper could be heard. The chief therefore gave the sign and with noiseless
was starlit and the hunter was enabled to fo ow t ie little figure .gliding    stepsthe Indians drew near the place where theyhoped to overcome the hunter.
La.                 :"r                 k          nt   y     r R" .a 'Nxi~~.,
_.. ... .......,  .  . z  f    "  'YYnFk,:::~ W+ " y. .,.':y. ue  :  ~ ~ s u - a w,, ~-~ d    d:":K kk'  IS d '".  .  ,y  "yy- 'A.Z "1 . d- -  . .

rrt1  tittT D 1) AOr, AV 'i-I  PV A VD'Q

'a

. 92

-- a w .r -,

WMIM
W-39;; --;;A                                                     I    1 74 W-- IT  Mw-
WIN

K  -"ry,,..      ors                  a '4s  i? CTA ? .y ''! ,; c4-c   j 4Y'd.,"" + r.:-   a :   '_      '
s      rt                          '                                         i
t.          .,7,. y.3..  .-v_-fj -   .yrr} ..-."  .. ..   _....  ..   y  +.++aY-r~ .T  t  '   v.   _

iniHEWILLJ JS 'J wa 1     EnV £,.    -9
'noiselessly along. The dog'was evidently on a fresh trail, though the wind
coming from their gear prevented him from benefiting as much by his keen scent
as he would have done under more favorable circumstances.
In this 'day they traveled a full hour until a somewhat lighter streak ahead
informed the hunter of the neighborhood of the Connequenessing. He allowed
,he dog to proceed to the 'water's edge, where, seating himself upon a, log, he
reflected on his course, speaking at the same. time to his dog in a guarded way;
Well, here we are Spy, and iftseems our game has taken to the water."
e At this moment Spy crowded between hisiegs with the hair on his back stand-
ing'erect. There was no mistaking these signs. Indians were near; perhaps he
was already in an ambush. This was certainly a trying situation. A novice
would have become alarmed and sought safety in flight, but the hunter knew
the -Indian to be of a cat-like nature, that is fond of playing with its prey before
devouring it. . If Indians were around-and of this he had no doubt-they would
chuckle at his supposed security and give him all the playthey could in order
to strike the final blow, when least suspected:_ Instead, therefore, of betraying
his knowledge of their presence, the hunter resumed his-conversation wi  his
dog: - We cannot swim like ducks or muskrats, Spy, and I guess we'd better
stay here until morning and then go on the trail of these rascally thieves.',
With these words the hunter sank behind the log, which'lay wi *its butt
towards the cieek., 'Another forest giant lying parallel with it, the hunter was
}     in a measure protected on both flanks and benefitted by these he crept with the
noiseless and rapid'motions of the serpent into the deeper shade of the forest.
dS d - aC            hr . ct lth an ni     o d u  knsf his mntinns nrd he there--

;
-

f}+'1
i
5
}
8
+              3
y
4
x ,

Al


,
}
t
t
r
4
4-
t
2, {
.  jj
.7
-

KIl
1  I

They had everything in readiness to bind him; but to their great surprise the
place was empty. They searched all around, becoming gradually noisy in
their demonstrations, but, their search was unsuccessful. _ The Senecas-had
heard'of Big Jump before, and this sudden disappearance on his part had filled
them with a superstitious fear calculated to increase the respect they already
entertained for the hunter. Red Feather,'on his part,'was'-filled with rage at
this'disappointment, and would have vented it in a furious howl, if caution had
notadictated the maintainance of silence in so dangerous a neighborhood. Nor
would he totally relinquish the hope of yet capturing 'his enemy, and was on
the-point' of instructing his men, when an approaching footstep became audible.
There was their victim, again! The .eager expectation qf securing the hunter's
person made them forget the phenomena of his previous disappearance, and
placing themselves once more in ambush they awaited his arrival. He was
walking along the bank of the creek and if the Indians had not been infatuated
they would have noticed that his mode of proceeding was rather noisy for so
celebrated a hunter. On the unsuspecting man came, and when he was oppo-
site the ambush of the Indians Red Feather pounced upon him with a force that
sent hint the ground. The hands of the chief clutched his throat and pre-
vented the utterance of the slightest sound. Nor was he allowed to use his
arms, for hey as immediately pinioned at both wrists and ankles. After that
gag was a 'lied to his mouth; allowing the chief to withdraw and.leave the
prisoner prostrate in the most helpless condition.   .
" How feel now?" Maghpiway inquired as soon as his exultation and the re-
covery of his breath would allow him to speak.. " You think, marry Wild Rose '
now? You think take her to wigwam soon?"
The prisoner, of course, gave no answer, the gag preventing him; but the
chief expected none. There is a class of questions so significant, that they 
carry the answer on their face. The chief wanted to glory over a fallen foe and
we are sorry to say, that he did not merely confine this practice to his tongue,
but also applied his feet vigorously to the body'of his enemy. At last, however,
he tired of the game, or may be the insecurity of the place, induced him to de-
sist. He certainly quit and turning to the Senecas, gave them instructions for
their future movements. He informed them that he had a second canoe con-.
cealed a little further up stream, which he would fetch down in order to enable
them to reach the mouth of the creek and from there start on their northward
trip without delay. Then suiting his actions to. his words, he really went in
quest of the canoe and after an absence of half an hour returned with the craft.
The body of the prisoner was lifted jr  n  the Senecas having embarked, the
canoe was pushed into the stream  owed to follow the current, 4b  ad-
.dles-in the vessel being used both to qucken its motion and to keepit in th'e
'channel. Maghpiway remained behind, glorying in the consummation of his
vengeance. This meeting with Eagleheyl, had, indeed, been extremely'fortu-,
nate. His own warriors would hardly hae ventured to assist him just at this
time, the whole tribe being really anxious to make itspeace with the Ameri*

94

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.

y                                                                                                                                                                                                     it"

77
wwoomnr w .01 pow

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.                 95
cans. He stood there on the bank, gazingat the receding boat and anticipat-
ing the moment, when the prisoner .would stand at the stake and in the. most
excruciating tortures expiate the crime of having thwarted as great a:person as
the Delaware chief. So deeply was he engaged in this pleasant pastime, that
he failed to notice the movements of a form, stealing up to him with the noise-
lessness of a spectre. All at once a shadow passed before his eyes, a thong
drew his arms to his body before he had fully recovered from his consternation,
he in turn lay prostrate on the ground, his life-ind destiny lying in the hands of
he very man, whom he imagined to have just now sent to a northern den for
safekeeping. It was indeed the hunter, who had been a witdeqs to the capture
and embarkation of an individual unknown to him.  Gladly wduld he have in-
terfered, if interests of less magnitude had been at stake. .He felt, that the re-
covery of Rose Anderson depended mainly on his ability to lead the pursuit and
so in spite of a foreboding, that nobody but Lieutenant Sanders had fallen into
Red'Feather's hands, he abstained from making a diversion-in his favor.  He
had often battled against greater bdds and might perhaps have remained victo-
rious in this instance; but this precarious position of his comrade's  hter
induced him to listen to the counsel of prudence in preference to the impulses
of bravery. So the prisoner had been carried oft, the chief alone remained on
the bank, thus offering our friend an excellent opportunity of secu  his per-
Son. Robert had been near enough to hear the questions of the chief to the
suppposed scout and he 'could not now resist the-tem'ptation to retaliate.
How feel now?" he inquired. "You think marry Wild rose now? you
think take her to wigwam soon?"
On hearing this voice the chief fairly quaked with consternation.. This surely
was the hunter, whom he believed to be now a prisoner and on hisway north.
believing himself the prey of some supernatural agency, he remained perfectly
silent, awaiting the action of his captor, that would decide his fate.  But the
hunter was by no means sure of the best course to pursue. He knew.Maghpi-
way to be guilty of conspiring against the whites, at least one of them,'that in-
dividual being his own person. He knew that it would be dangerousto let him
go again, saying nothing of the imprudence of having still increased his fury,
and yet hekould not help wishing to have him off his hands, as with such a foe
to guard he could not think of continuing the pursuit of the kidnappers. If
the soldiers of the Fort would only come, it was surely time that they phopld
be here.
'And hark! even as this wish shaped itself into a thought, he heard the tramp
of many feet. Most of the soldiers at tly  wore heady shoes, furnished
them b   i$_ Government and their steg(osounder1thereforea great distance  ?4
through tlie woods. The hunter had often execrated the clumsiness of these
fellows; but it this instance his ear welco ed the noise with great satisfaction.
He uttered a Veculiar whistle, which had been previously agreed upon as a sig-
nal. It was. promptly answered and a fee minutes afterwards the men cro'*ded
around the hunter.
t4f


-..           ..                     Y   ,.                       ..   .   .

.

~c
s.
z
..
l'
t
.r
k
_ r
6 _
:-,
.
T:
_g
-t
t
{t
f
?  .
r
.
$
S

d;
:
Cj
t
t
{
6

96              THE WILD ROSE OFTHE BEAVER.
Whom have we here?" the sergeant inquired, as he came near stumbling .*
over the prostrate farm of the chief,
v  "Oh, merely a scoundrel chief belonging to the Delaware nation, who de-
signed to favor me in a like manner, It is the fellow, who was at the Fort
lately."
Red Feather?"
Exactly. I charge you to take good care of him, in order to prevent his
escape."
"We could leave a guard to watch him."
"That would answer the purpose; in fact the main part of the men might a
well remain here at present for all the good their traveling to night would do?'"Y
Have you discovered any signs of the stolen girl?"
Not yet; but I have witnessed the taking of another prisoner."
"Another prisoner? Who in the world could that be?"
"I neither saw his face nor heard his voice; but I could almost swear that it
was the Lieutenant."
"Sanders?"}
" Course. He was the first to start on the trail,.without the necessary ex-
perience to avoid the snares of the red devils. He might as well waited for all
the good.he did; and if he gets away with a whole skin this adventure may do
him goo4i:nd take the conceit out of him."
"But they may kill him."
" Not just now-I overheard the converstion of the rogues on that subject.  r',
They are on the creek now, going to its mouth, to start nofth from there."
Perhaps they might be overtaken."
"It shall be tried at any rate. Pick me half a dozen fellows, who.can pull a
trigger and set their feet down without shaking the ground for half a rne
around."
The Sergeant qpickly set to work and in less than five minutes presented the
chosen party'to the hunter. Robert led them at once across the creek and af-
terwards in a northern direction through the country between the Connequen -
essing and Slippery Rock Creek. -The latter stream was forded by the party
near the place where Wortemburg is now situated and then the norgern course
changed to one a little more eastward. At last they .stopped.
We shall soon know now," the hunter said, " whether the Indians are
ahead of us or ndt. They can not be far either way, and half an hour's waiting
will decide the matter. If-behind us they must pass here within that time, this
being the only feasible course fol them to take.' If ahead of us we must let
Spy find the trail and thentru --4sagacity.
After these words the hunter an# is men retired to the thicketdn perfect si-
lence. The wisdom of this soon beame apparent, as they had' hardly been
ten minutes on their posts when foot' eps became audible approaching from a.
southern direction.  -
Make sure work of it," Robert whispered. " We cannot bother with pris-

-                                                     Y               ' rx.
=, Ff                      _     -                                 , ...  ,                  w". s ""  ' "'.              , c "    -               ^w         n    ;    - ,,wro "'.: 're! ^.

.
°
"

9g " '  a-
$t         ,Y
u             .'

xr

ki"
r

THE WILD ROSE OF THE, BEAVER.                 97
oners just now. It's getting light, for the moon is rising. I will take the head
man and two and two of you the rest a piece.  Don't make a blunder though
and shoot the prisoner; nor-waste your bullets on the tvirong carcass, for it is
important that none should escape."
This was all he said or could, say, for the J[ndians were- drawing near. Rob-
ert had chosen his position well, calculating that the Indians would follow the
most convenient route. The place formed a natural pass rising steeply on both
sides and serving as: a drain to the country, several little runs wandering through
5 ite bottom. The first quarter of, the moon just then sent its welcome light
ver the tree tops to the bottom, revealing the forms of five men, who were
en valking in Indian file, the prisoner marching in the middle, his hands tied
and  is mouth still gagged. This' arrangement suited the party in ambush
to perfection.. Deliberately they took aim, feeling no more compunction to
shoot these Indians, than if they had been so many dogs.  The flash of the
leader's rifle was the sign for the men to pull their triggers. And the shots be--
ing almost simultaneous, not one of the Indians gained time to secure a cover.
When the smoke cleared away the eye saw four bodies on the ground, writh-
ing in the agonies of death. -The work was done and'that rapidly, bnt so un-
expectedly, that neirher the victims nor the'prisoner had looked for it.  The
poor fellow stood like one spell bound and he never moved until the voice of
the hunter struck his ear.
."Lieutenant Sanders, as sure as I live!"  Robert exclaimed, running up to
him and without delay removed the fetters from his nouth'and arms. The of-
ficer could not speakjfor some time, for the savages had applied the gag -with
very little regard for the tongue or palate. _ -Nor were his wrists in a nuch bet-
ter-conditioui, the thongs having completely rubbed the skin off.  R bert ie-
solved to stop a while.and givethe -Leutenant time to.recruit his strength and
recover, from his juries. His wrists were bathed with .whiskey and the same
stuft also used inwardly with the best effect. After fifteen minutes Sanders was
able to speak and give an account of -his capture, without dreaming that Rob-
ert was pretty well informed concerning it.  The hunter said nothing though,
abstaining also from any remarks on The somewhat rash exposure of hi's friend,
as he deemed the lesson the officer had received fully sufficient to prevent a
repetition of the blunder.                         *
Under the salutary influence of his' rescue the spirits of the officer at once re-
Aived and renmembering the perilous position of the kidnapped girl, he turned
with an anxious mien to Robert for information.  The hunter could give him
no other consolation, than that a latge forceofboth soldiers and Indians were
in pursuit.  Having told him this, Robert relpsed into a marked silence, evi-
dently revolving something ofimportance in-his mind. At last he startled like
one that has formed his resolution, and turning to Sander; and his men, he
said: "I think I have, it."-                             /
"Have what?"
" A good plan for the rescue ofthe girl.  Standing behind a tree near the

r
. .
i$Se.        1RE' '' '.R.--. S4_tsi . ".:.. ::s:.ssr' r'r.:::,aK.,_ -..., .,,..Na...,_  ...k                 +..a ,r                       y.                              ':;         :::.:                   ..    ...    ..         ,.                       ,.    _          _   ..I        _.__    ... _......._,?^..r.    .:;a.4

"mss x" _     ...        :.,    g.. c--_'  , .                                     _   ._.. -      -

i

i'

s

-


r
t         -
k
f
4
at
i
.'k
s
t
"" a
T'
f b_
a
ak-
;u s
a
9
'F '

41L  --,

THE= WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.

99

98              Tit- WILb ROSE O   T t 3E rAVt1,
chief, when he instructed the warriors, I overheard and understood everything
he said. They were to take the Lientenant to some other chief in a cave. Now
I know of a cave on the Neshannock and should not be at all surprised if it
turned out the same Red Feather spoke about."
Then let us ascertain without delay-! am fblly strong enough to stand the
march now,"
"Softly, friend, softly! The biggest hurry does not always secure the great
est speed. Just listen to my plan now. These Indians were to take the pris-
oner to the tare. Well, suppose we get up some mock Indians instead, leadin-
you as a pretended captive-don't you think that would secure us the entrance 
of the cave?"
" Upon my word, that is a good idea; but it would not work in daylight."-
"You are right there, and that is the very reason why we must go-about it
with due circumspection. It istoo late to reach the cave before'=morning, say-
ing nothing about the uncertainty of its being the right one. We are therefore
compelled to delay thething till to-morrow evening, when dusky begins to give
our faces the right complexion."
But think of what may befal poor Rose in the meantime."
" It is true" he said, "by waiting that long we give her jailor a good deal of loiP
sure for mischiet. Well, suppose we make a compromise of it and set out'at
once: Rose must certainly have got tired in consequence of the long tramp
over such rough ground and there is a bare possibility of our reaching the cave
before her."
"1Then for God's sake, let us try," the Lieutenant cried and his conjuration
finding an echo in the hearts of the soldiers, the whole party again started on its
fatiguing journey. As they advanced towards t'he north the- ground became
more lev l, thus favoring a more rapid progress and diminishing the hardships
of the march. At the first dawn of morning they struck Neshannock a creek,
op whose banks the cave in question was known to lie,  Here they halted a
while, the men taking frpmatheir pouches the scanty breakfast, with which they
supplied-themselves at the Fort the evening before.  The Lieutenant being
without any food whatever, received a small supply from each, relishing his
corn bread and bacon much better than ever before in theFort.
Our party rested for nearly an hour and then resuming their march, reached,
the vicinity of the present town of Mercer towards noon.
"iWe must be near the cave now," Robertlremarked.  " Althoug I openlyV
confess my ignorance as to its exact location. From what I heard concerning
it, it-opens under a very large rocky ledge. Do you see yon hill?  It lhoks'
rocky enough to answer the description."-
"Then we had better go near and examine it."  '
"Exactly, only we must dbservesprecaution and not expose ourselves to sight.
If the robbers are in the cave and catch a single glance of us, our chances 'of
surprising them of course are gone. Fortunately the country seems well tim-
bered to the very foot of the ledge."-

0

r                                             n                                                                                                   _

7-4
WCO  ili
{

__

Robert now began to approach the hill in the most cautious manner. Keep-
ing his party well concealed in the dense undergrowth with which the woods
were mostly lined there, he managed to get sufficiently near the ledge to ex-
amine it closely. There was indeed a hole at its base, large enough to admit
the figure of a man and evidently reaching some distance into the interior.
"It must be the cave," Robert whispered, "but how we will learn whether it
is tenanted or not without exposing our bodies to the bullets of its garrison, is
more than I can, tell."
"aSend Spy out and let him see," one of the men suggested.
Robert now drew the attention of. the dog upon himself by calling his name.
Then he pointed to the hole in the ledge, and said; "Spy, do you see that hole?
Just you go and see whetheryou can discover any red skins there,  Go, Spy,
thats a good dog,"    I
The dog looked at him and then in the direction of the hole. Rob'ert repeated
his order and all at once the cunning little fellow commenced to walk slowly
and carefully to the suspicious aperture, He- smelled the ground before and in
the entrance, but soon returned to his master without betraying signs of ex-
citement. Robert'patted him on the head,
"That decides the natterr" he said, "I am as sure now that the cave is
empty as if I had been through the whole of it. We may as well go in and
take possession."
t        eWhy, this seems to be a capital sort of a place," he said, "and we must man-
age to procure some pine knots in order to explore it.  I think I noticed some
spruce pines without."
He stepped out into the open air followed by some of the nen, who by means
of their tomahawks soon procured a sufficient quantity of pitchy pine 5wood 'to
last them through the proposed investigation of the cave. After striking fire
with their steel and flint, they lit one of the knots and without delay proceeded
to the perpendicular descent above mentioned. It proved to be only a'few feet
deep and having reached its bottom, the explorers entered a large and spacious
passage of considerable beauty,  This in turn shrank into such dwarfish di-
mensions, that they could hardly effect a passage in single file. At its end the
cave once more widened into a laige and vaulted hall, echoing the voices of
the visitors in a startling manner.  After this hall there. was another narrow
Passagee, then a hall again and thus wide and narrow places followed one
another, until all at once day light mixed with their torchlights and the cave ter-
minated in a passage on the other side of the hill,
'i-This is indeed wore beautiful-ihan I expected," Robert said, " The cave is
a citidal; which I would hold against a hundred men; provided I had plenty of
food and a trusty companion, ' Without'that this cave tight, turn-out a very
ugly trap,a splendid sepulchre withal. So the first thing for us to do will be to
provide for sudden emergencies by .killing some game- or other, for Indianti
about or no about, we cannot live on air. Over yonder I see a nice' buck; just
stay where you are and let me try to get a shot at him,"

§Y,
F
T3
t
y}
f
r

- i
_F
l4r
c-

I s

.s9a _' "  ' _ .             .                     hx2" iF!    '     si+yt         M      .,       L                     -                  , 'Y+
.      Tt  'jr  .'4,


3  r

THE WILD ROSE OF .THi BEAVER.

{
t
_.
s
.

-
Y  '
{
t
}-
:^  '
. ,      ,
i

44

aa,  .i  +"_  1 ",y .ma  ,,   b"  ' t   xt, ,s  r;,
w ~ ~ eb4AWc~e n  :  s" y4 t,
______                               44
__________________             444  -     '-ir  ++k-  ..'Wi. -;y  a " , r'  ~ia. ""  - -" ++ o". , . x   -

4' .

100

4           4         -''44       "     -
~        ~4'44~'4~  -                        4

t
s
r
3
i
1

4  AF
a d'
44
4 r 1

t                                                                                ,
_='p       , g                              _       r
-n +fY lY Y UatVM +Y i["AV'n"r" T'v' .^xyae[   ' _a.'£+             wws+  sr  r.  -v-w            w--.+

P

The hunter crept 'towards an opening in the bottom, where several deer were
pasturing. In those days it was comparatively easy to steal up to them, as the
few roving Indians were insufficient to disturb their feeling of security. Rob-
ert moreover was a skillful hunter and before the expiration of a quarter of an
hour his men heard the crack of his rifle: Going up to him they found a fine
buck, which his bullet had killed on the spot. With their united strength they
succeeded in carrying ijt into the' cave and having thus secured the needful sup-
ply forgeveral clays, they began to feel more at their ease. The cave was very
cool, especially the interior department and meat .woukl keep here a whole
week without spoiling.  As they had a sufficient amount of food in. their'
pouches and disliked to kindle a fire, the smoke of which might betray them to
distant Indians, they merely dragged the buck into the second vault and then
divided their company and placing a party at each entrance, patiently and si-
lently looked for the Seneca chief and his captive. Robe rt joined the party
guarding the opening through which they had first entered, because he thought
it probable that the Indians would appear there first. Nor was he mistaken.'
A little before sunset three red men were noticed to approach the cave, .lead-
ing a female captive in the highest state of exhaustion. Robert at once recog-
nized Rosa Anderson, and a deep compassion filled his heart when he saW her
frightful condition. Two Indians had to support her and the hunter might have
wondered at this complete exhaustion of so young and vigorous a constitution
after a comparatively short period of suffering, if his experience had not taught
him that mental agony is as fatiguing as physical exertion.  He was glad that
;an4ers was with the party at the other entrance, partly because his absence
saved him the painful aspect of his mistress in such a miserable plight, partly
because it prevented any sudden, demonstrations into which the Lieutenant
might have been driven by his excitement. As it was, Robert could carry out
the measures on which he had resolved during the hours of waiting. These
measures of course depended on circumstances, and the hunter had instructed
his companions with a view to them.' If the Indians advanced in such a nan-
ner as to make the use of the rifle practicable, the men were to fire; but under
no conditions was the life of Rosa Anderson to be endangered. 1f the rifle
could not be used they were to let the Indians pass and throw themselves upon
them, to finish the work with the knife pnd tomahawk.
Thus instructed the party allowed the Indians to enter the mouth of the cave .
The close proximity of two of them to the girl forbade the use of the rifle, and
thus the silent steel must do the work. The sun was near the horizon, and
was sufficiently shaded by the trees to hide from a superficial observer the slight
marks left on the-stony surface. The chief, eager to reach the cave, did not
stdp to examine the ground, but came on in advance until he reached the per-
pendicular descent. here he allowed his companions to pass him, and prepar-
ed to light a torch vhich he had brought along. The others turned to watch
the operation and they were facing Robert's party, which the lighting of the
torch would have revealed to the Indians.

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.                lot
Now,     ted Robert, and burying' his knife in the chief's bosom. Eagle-
head dropped with the blade in his heart, and the torch became extinguished by
the fall: The companions of the scout mdved a second too late, thus giving the
other Indians a glimpse of their danger.: They at once dropped the girl and
commenced a retreat. One succeeded in merely making one bound, when he
received a knife in his; breast. His companion, however, merely received a
flesh wound and shaking off his assailant :succeeded in reaching the passage
which lead to the interior of the-cave. The darkness greatly favored his escape
and he fled with all speed. As he advanced without hearing signs of pursuit
,.4his hope revived; and'he was on the point of rushing into the last passage when
the sight of the guards at the entrance checked him, but only for an.instant.
With a rush he felled the guard in his path, leaped his prostrate body and clear-
ed the entrance before the rest of the guard recovered from their surprise'. Once
in the open air he quickly plunged into the thicket which\ covered the greater
part of the bottom. Sanders and his men sprang out for a parting shot but they
were too late. After consultation they concluded not to go in pursuit until the
arrival of the other party, which could be looked for with certainty.
Let us anticipate this arrival and return to watch the movements of Robert
and his party after the assault on the Indians. Robert at once lighted the torch
dropped by the chief, and stepped to the girl, who half lay, half sat on 'the
ground irta state of utter prostration. 'As they gently tried to lift her up, she
freed herself from their grasp and sank upon her knees, and raising her hands
in supplication said in heart-rending accents
Mercy! Oh,"have mercy upon a poor forsaken girl!"
Robert remained silent for fear that his well-known voice would create a re-
action, equally dangerous. So one of the soldiers said: " Why, my good girl,
we are friends, come to rescueyou from the red-skinned devils. ~ Don't you
know me?? I'm Sam Sullivan,.and here is Pete Ingolsby. So cheer up, child."
At first his words seemed to make no impression; but bynd-by'the sounds
of her mother tongue struck a 'kindred chord and she began to look around
with growing eagerness. Robert now deemed it time to show himself.
Rose," he said with a low voice, "you may believe hiin. We--"
"Robert! Good God, is it possible?"
This was all she could utter. Her emotions were too powerful'for her weak-
ened frame, and with a moan she sank into unconsciousness.
She has fainted, poor girl," said Robert. "Sam, bring her here to the wa-
ter and let me bathe her temples. ,There, I can manage her now. Light the
pine knots we left at the entrance; anm then track the fellow that gave us the
slip. It -won't do to let him escape, for he might bring the whole Seneca tribe
down upon us before we can move. Take Pete and the others with you."
His orders were promptly obeyed and he was left alone with the unconscious
girl. - Patiently and gently he bathed her face and temples until finally she open-
ed her eyes. After wandering a moment they 'fixed upon the hunter's face and
showed both recognition and delight. Robert put his flask to her lips, pouring

I
Iy  t
'{
44
t
_  : ?

i
J

y
4
d
'C

x:-
s "aT..Fr v.       _. ' s -.    .....  _  "  ,,,.,,., ,. ,..-...  ...  ,,. .er   ...  _ . y,°  - -..er ry':x         n.w ..  -,,.  S...dc .... eU.'ra.+..,.. .-


I t             THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER,
a few drops of the liquor down her throat. This acted as a pp  tonic and
with the hunter's assistance she raised herself to a sitting postur.
" Oh, Robert, how grateful I am to you: for this! You saved me from drown-
ing; but in freeing me from the Indians you have done an infinitely greater favor.'
"I am glad I could be of service to yot, Rose; but I alone must not receive
all the credit for what others did as well, There is one person here vAho would'
give his heart's blood to save you a pang.of pain'
"This is not the moment to dissemble, Robert," Rose said, coloring, "so I
-shall not pretend I do not understand. I am very glad he thought it worth the
while to come for me though his conduct of late made me think difterdntly."
3R '  Ie vas laboring under a delusion, Rose, which has now left him, But he
may tell you that himself; for unless -I am much mistaken I hear him coming."
The'glimpse of a light and confused pounds penetrated the cave, and in a few
minutes the whole party made its appearance in the passage, Sanders evidently
had been warned beforehand,-for he had no sooner seen the girl than he kneeled
down at her side and enclosed her in his arms. Neither spoke, and the others.,
turned aside, that the meeting between them might be sacred.
"Dear Rose," the Lieutenant at last exclaimed, "this is more happiness than
deserve; can you pardon my short-sighted folly?"
I pardon your coldnees without knowing its cause-does that suffice?"
No, Rose, for I owe yon ari explanatiory which I shall give youit a later
hour. Now we must not think of anything but your speedy restoration and re.
moval from this place." Calling to Robert he said; "I look to you for help;
-you have found her, and you will also devise means to take'her to the Fort."
I'll try my best, Lieutenant, but I fear the escape of that Indian will brew
trouble."
You mean the-one that upset me? He came very unexpectedly."
"I do not blame you for the escape. I only say it was unfortunate, The
country of the Senecas is not far off and their bands often roam beyond their
boundaries, If the runaway should fall in with such a one-"
welll, what would be the consequence? They would not dare attack us!"
"iDid this chief hesitate?  They will dare anything when their passions bid
them. If Eaglehead is any person of consequence, we may look for trouble."
[  I" Then we had better start for the Fort without delay."
"With Rose in this condition? No, that would hardly answer, She'll have
to make a good part of the way on foot, and I'd sooner wait here in one spell
than a dozen on the road,"
"But, Robert, the joy of being rescued has refreshed me wonderfully. I
think I could stand the fatigue of the journey even now."
"You think you can-I know you cannot. Excuse my bluntness Rose; but
my words are dictated by my wishes for your welfare. You must now eat and
sleep; to-morrow we'll-see about the rest. Sam and Pete, if you will gather
dry leaves for a bed I will attend to cutting up and frying our venison. Two of
xis must guard the mouths, Lieutenant you may watch here, and Isaac you

U

tiay com       e to the other opening. It would not do to sufle a surprise."
Again th   en set to work to carry out these orders.  A bed of leaves was
procured and after Rose had partaken of the savory steak, which Robert' pre
-     pared with rare'skill, she stretched her weary limbs upon-the soft bed in a fev
minutes'wa's asleep,'thus verifying the hunter's opinionconcerning her ability
as toan immediate departure. The others also delivered theiniseves to rest and
61eep, ekeepting the guards who relieved each other every few hours. Robet
was the only person who refused to shut his eyes:  He had suffered too, niuch
from the blunders of others=to allow himself to become the preys under such
critical circumstances. 'le wakened'the relief parties and kept everything in
order until a faint streak-in the eastern sky indicated the approach of morning. 4-
Thenhe woked the sleep   'convoked the guards.
Friends," he said,'" we must part at once, for so actionn and prt dencc
dictate to us. If we gain nothing b our speed, we certainly cannot lose by it.
One of you must go in advance of the main body,:not so much for discover-
ing foes, as for finding friends.  There is a large body of 'Delaware ,Indians
between the Neshannocl and the Slipery Rock Creek now, and this body must
be hurried up as Soon as possible. Sam, you understand their tongue; will you
undertake the job for me?"
"Of course,'I will, Robert and with all my heart. - Shall I go now?"
" Yes; I suppose you'll halie no trouble in findling your-way?"
" I hope not Robert. You expect me to lead them the same route we came?
"Well, yes, that will do; the creek may possibly be of some service .to us.
Yod may lead them that way-' Sam, but be quick. You understand."
"Aye, aye, sir. The sooner I'm off the sooner I'll be back."
"Now to the rest. Lieutenant take charge of Rose.'Keep close to her and
adhere to her through thick and thin. "That case being disposed, there's six
left including myself. Of them one may assist the Lieutenant. Isaac you go
with him. . The rest may stay with me'to cover the rear, Having no leisure
for a breakfast here each man'must take his'share along, and trust to chance.
Thus everything is arranged. Lieutenant move forward with your  charge."
Five minutes'later the cave was'empty, and away to the south a few miles
could be discovered in the gr y dawn a line of silent stealing noiselessly thro'
the forest.
"I do not know what ails me," Robert said to his'companions. " I am gen-
erally above forebodings; but this morning I can hardly,- keep from delivering
myself up to gloomy thoughts. Just  ay here a little while, I must retrace our
steps and see whether there is any occasion for alarm,
Accordingly the men stopped and Robert returned on his own trail, examin.
ing everything with the greatest possible care and attention. At last he reached
the summit of an, eminence,'which, though not-very high, raised Its top consid-
erably above its neighbors, Not satisfied with this chance for a sight,-Robert
climbed into the top of a tall tree and thus obtained a veryextensive view to the
north ani-northeast. Although he was at-that time fully three miles distance from

-                                                                                                    9 e4
^+  -s'~s  .,31r~                                                            .'   , ,         . t  s i q,"     :: l;i   -' ° r s+ ' y,.,  .   A.. , iA       ''t~, "q L  ;'..'         .

'17-1"RAI T,                                 -           -

I 1
s

Y '

- - - - - - - - - - -

1 1
f I
4a

t

Y
e     r !
r-t


'E
i
4
t

1

Y t' .  r7
}  i  Y   ,        Sa   4" {9

a

..

104             THE WILD .ROSE OF THE BEAVER.
the cave he could distinctly see the ledge containing its mouth:  ore than
that! at a second sharp glance he saw quite a number of human gures run-
ning up and down the hill, evidently excited like a swarm of bees into whose
hive a foreign element has forced its way. To see it and to know that a body
hostile Indians had malje their appearance at the cave, probably led thither by
the successful fugitive, was the work of the same moment. Gliding rapidly
to the ground, he returned to his comrades as fast as he could and in a few
words informed them of his discovery.
"We have at best a start of them of two or three miles," he said thoughtfully.
"But what is that considering our slow progress?  They can make two miles'
to our oite if they choose, and of this you may rest assured. In twos hours at
farthest they will be upon our heels and then we shall be in a tight place if our
friinds,.fail in bringing timely succor."
The others looked at each other with rather serious faces.
"Couldn't we out run them, Robert?" Peter inquired.
"We might for a short time, but not in the long run. WWe must try to reach
a place here we can entrench ourselve until our friends arrive. If we can only
hold out until to-night we may safely look for relief."
They now resumed their march, hurrying up to the girl and hercompanions.
Rose read the state of affairs in the soldiers' faces, and turned to Robert saying:
I see your expectation has proved correct; you have seen Indians?"
Well, it's no use tb deny a fict that will become evident."
It we cannot escape I want you to kill me before I. fall into their hands."
"Why, Rose, it is not so bad as that. If we succeed ifn -raching a place
where we can hold out against the odds our friends will rescue us in due time."
And do you know'of such a place?" the Lieutenant inquired.
I know of one; but we'll have to move lively in order to reach it in time.
Here, Lieutenant, take Rose's right arm, and, Isaac, take the left one. Now
forward, but steady, for we have several miles to go.'
The others acted in accordance with his instructions, and for more than two
miles the party kept up a rapidgait. The hunter kept watch in the rear, and
when-they reached the foot of a long ridge running parallel with the creek, he
deemed it prudent to -make another recoinnoisance. Suddenly he started, and
well he might, for the Indians whom be imagined at least a'mile behind, ran at
that moment across an opening not quite one-fourth of that distance away from
them. They were so numerous, and seemed so full of confidence that they dis-
dained to conceal their approach for their supposed victims.
You seem very sure of catching us," the hunter soliloquized, as he hastened
after his companions; "but you may be disappointed."
Friends," he cried- "now run for your lives. What we have done is child's,
play to what we must do. Follow this ridge until you come to its end; there
stop and wait for me. I'll stay behind with Pete and teach these fellows better
.manners than following white people."
The Lieutenant and Rose with four soldiers quickened their flight while Rob-..

I
i                        r~

V+

,_              x
".  "          i           s
.   ,                o       s
j    yrp,         n
i _'             Fj      p
r              F   3        i
6
}               [
t -
t_  S
t°

U

3
= I4'

44ll~

ert and Peter dropped somewhat behind. They could hear the forerunners of
their foes coming nearer and nearer.
" Now Peter, watch what I am going to say," the -hunter said as coolly as if
he meant to enlarge on rabbit shooting. " I'll show you what I call a running
fight. I picked you in preference, because'you are the steadiest man aid have
the best rifle. , -Mind, I say rifle, because I intend to do the shooting part my-
self. We cannot afford to waste' a single bullet and though you shoot well
Saenough under ordinary circumstances, you wil allow that I do -a little better
yet. Well, I shall shoot at the foremot one of these dusky devils and of course
bring him dow . That will stop them for a minute' or two, I warrant you.. In
the meantime we swap rifles and you load, If the verTnin becomes troublesome
again, we give them another dose and so on, until we are in camp. Do you
comprehend me, Peter?"
" I think I do," Peter said with a chuckle, and greatly increased confidence
in the issue of the fight.
"Then we may as well begin the dance, Do you see, they begin to pepper
away at us, although they only vaste their bullets. Take that,tree Peter."
Peter obeyed orders, and Robert took his station near him behind another
tree. The Indians meanwhile advanced unconscious of their danger, until all at
once the rifle of the scout cracked, and the foremost Indian dropped dead upon
the ground.
"Do you see how they run, Peter? Just like a flock of sheep. Now give me
your gun and load mine; but don't put in too much powder-I hate a kicking
gun."
During these words they leisurely retreated from tree to tree, now and then
sending a deadly shot into the ranks of their enemies .whenever they were bold
enough to show themselves. By and by, however; the. bullets of the Indians
began to fly in various directions, showing that the savages had begun to
spread 'with the intention of cutting them oft.
"Now it is time, Peter," the hunter exclaimed, taking to his heels again.
They must not circumvent us, and if we stay here much longer such a thing
is not impossible. So, here is.our redoubt, and unles they have some six pound.
ers wit 'them, we can laugh at their efforts for the next eight hours to come."
Thfplace which they now reached was well adapted for the purpose of the
hunter, The ridge did not only come thereto a sudden end, terminating ii a
steep ledge of at least twenty feet; but it also narrowed on both sides, running.
like the, backbone of a huge animal-to a dull point.  The thin soilof the ridge
produced nothing but here and there a scanty bush; thus preventing the capture
of the place by surprise, while the defense of the point wazgreatly faciliated by
large boulders surrounding it in a rather irregular curve, and enclosing a space
of some twenty feet in diameter. He the hunter and his companion found
the rest of the party, Rose being in, a grekl flutter over the shooting occasioned
by what. he called his running #ght.. She therefore welcomed his arrival with
a sigh of relief and a deep felt "Thank God!

t
4
z       +
,
r

,,i ,
F
r

- -                              r
3

yPk                      '                                                 _                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 " S               .}

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER. '

Y-  "S,         s' {'  t   i             .."fi    !'=        tai-  ''' '..r -            fi    F     Y '                5   i               k.     y.~        u-iT _  ' J :°w        ,x ,   ^i   _     "    , --+     _ .:I -
8                          1           nr    j- 'T                          f 1 j S                           T$                ' -3  t-,    t     t: '             : t

pj
4                .       C

Io5

"  .
3
g$
t
i

4
I  1f

t
t                (     #
..   '


T,
P
x:
i
+  ±
i

_i       4

U°
zU             4
a'
b4
t    -
-           z
S6
'

"                                              r                                   F.-

f   -THE' WILth ROSE OP THE              EAV
"I hope you will have a'chance to thank God for many future blessings yet,
that is if you protect your head a little better than you did just now.  A few
lines to the right and your lovely face would now lie low penetrated by an ounce
of lead. Lieutenant, you try your luck and see if she will mind you."
' Rose smiled, but obedient to his hint assumed a position where she would be
safe from the bullets of the Indians.  The others stationed themselves accord
ing to the directions of the hunter, and for more than four hours an intessent
fire was kept up by both parties. The besieged sustained -no loss whatever, and,
as the assailants took good care not to expose themselves, only now and then a'
shot from the rifle of the scout took effect.
"This is extremely tiresome,' Robert said with a yawn. " If the Indians are
as sick of it as I, they will surely stop this useless waste of lead and powder."
"But do-you think they will, Robert?" Rose inquired.
"That's hard to say. If they stop shooting now, however, you must not take
that as an indication that they will stop trying to get us in their clutches. No,
indeed, you must give them credit for more perseverance than that, especially
at a time when their chances keep on improving."
"Improving? how so, Robert?"       .
"IWhy don't you see, the afternoon is nearly. spent-and that we can never'
hope of holding this place if they are determined to make a night assault? It
would cost then some men to be sure, but would undoubtedly put them in
possession of the Fort and its garrison."-
"then we must try'to escape from them in the dark."
"That would be the best; but that is easier said than done. If we only had
a canoe, we might possibly escape by water."                  44
"A canoe! Let me see. The chief took me in a canoe up stream; but I do
not know exactly where he landed. It cannot have been far from here eiTher,
as I remembered most, of the country on my return."
"Well, we must make the attempt at any rate. To remain here would be
madness; for the Indians can attack us on all sides. The slopes are steep, but
not enough so to prevent a skilful climber to reach the top. I am afraid they
will hardly give us time to perfect our arrangements."
-'And you mean to try it on the river side?" Sanders inquired.
Yes, there lies our best chance, poor as it is. We may run away from them
a little vays, but in the end they are sure to 'capture us, if our friends do not
succor us before long6  Indeed I wonder-"
His words were cut oft by a loud hurrah and, huzza, evidently emanating
from white throats. At the same time Indian war whoops sounded through the
woods creating very Iier nt feelings in the hearts of the hearers.
"Cheer, Sanders! Rose! cheer boys!", the hunter cried, setting himself up
as an example for his summons.
d But there are Indians too, Roberte Rose inquired.
"iThey are Delawares, child. - I know their war-cry too well to bemistaken,
Yes, our men and the warriors of the Beavet-have come together, thus ,ac,

I.

.s-+.  ^+:  ,,.,.i.w64.__    _       -    s ".,  4'"   13 "    .. r  ';s- '_6 6    ,4 :  '4'  y6  arF  ;,   :-.i
"  ..  k6 ..                     4W -6_  "  -  -- -  '  Me  'J  ' :  7 7 -6'-

. . . . . . . . . .

4
#
C
S
k
.
4
C
I
^
f;

;
..,,...,,,...r..g.,,.

,-rep~   ._ .., .,,g2    . , ..,.,.,«  - .. _ ~ ,.                       ....... , ,. "'°T'"                                                   '         _
.-                                                                                                                         _p

THE WILD ROSE OF THE BEAVER.
counting for their lateness. But comeI friends
else they inay think us dead and butcher off the whole tribe of Senecas in their
rage."eo                                                 eeasi     hi
The hunter let the neighboring slopes vilrate with th
voice and the others joining in  thewchoru  thei  e ring of his powerful
voic an theothr joningin he chorus, their voices were at last heard b
the soldiers and Delawares.  The apprehension of the her as nt withby
good reason.. Anderson, whoserfoot hah r      -    hunter tas not without
there boiling with rage, and as the Delawares Wed grom  incene    as
encroachment of their privileges by a neihbo  were greatly mcensed at this
brinclined-to wreak their vengeance on the unlucky Senecas. The latter t i-
fled by the suddenness of the attack attempted hardly a defense and their stupa
being cut. oft, a considerable carnage was alreadY g   dn    eirretreat
ance of the scout gave to affairs new tur.  yo     on,whethe appear-
"Here we are, all of us hale and hearty!" he-e
a head of hem and so I think wecould aftor  ied. We hat   already killed
A new hurrah was the answer tb his remarks, and the sli."
benefiting by the joyous uproar, slipped aay as wel e srclng .Senecas
son had meanwhile made his way to the ridge      there  os   A  ndr
With a shout of-joy she sprang into his arms, laughere R   and  in.
while numerous tears trickled over the bronzed e  hng and'erying in turn,
"dBack at last!" he said, when his power of speech ' hd t ed  "osy,
Rosy, if you try that trick again, I'll get some jaior fr yadreturned.   Rosy,
restless bird caged."o
Rose knew what the meant; but she kney what she meant and desired.'Not
wishinghowever, to jar the present harmony b   e mely and desid she
kept quiet, praising to her father Campbell, Sandersan untimely eclaration, she
had assisted in her rescue.awho
The hunter meanwhile had gone to the Delawares. They greeted hiwi
signs of respect and admiration. The Beaver himself wey gte had  with
troop, a sign of respect which Roberfully appreciatedas at the head othe
I. thank the Beaver for his ready assistance," he said, shakili
"Big Jump will never forget his kindness."                   g hishand.
"My son can pay the Beaver by paying his daughter Bt
me what he means to do with Maghpiway?"           -But w     my son tell
"I hardly know; the rascal fully deserves death."
S" The Beaver knows; but if he answers for Red F
my son forget the injury received at his hand"ter in the future
"Ofcourse, I will, Beaver. To oblige you. I would do
is getting late; does the Beaver intend to encamp here?" oevenmore. But it
He does. It is too late to reach the village of the Dela   -
one place is as good as another.".
" Exactly, Beaver; but you would mumhpbl
and how you left Wild Rose?"             ige me by letting me know, where
"Wild Rose is no longer sad: Big Jump has cured her  Sh  6
e                 e told me to go


TRat Wl" th RS /OP THE ~L " fl.

and help you, fearing for your safety. 'She will be happy to receive yot at her
lodge to-morrow."
I            " Well, I hall go with you and with your permission take the soldiers also.
There will soon be peace now between the White and red men and the more
frequently they meet the sooner they will lose the hatred, which as yet animates
them to some extent."
Thus it was arranged 'and carried put, Venison being plentiful, there was
an abundance of food,-the first and indispensible condition for man's good hu-
mor. A good bed these hardy .frontiersmen valued much less, and both In=
dians and white men passed what they considered a very pleasant night.
*  IIn the morning, after a very informal breakfast the two bodies began their
-march to the Indian village. The canoe of Red Feather being found, Rose and
her friends made the trip by water.  The-weather was beautiful and the com
pany as gay as could be expected, a certain gloomy recollection of the past
trial still remaining.  Sanders was' also in the canoe but less gay than all the
rest. -He kept thinking of the obstacles still in his road to happiness and only
the affectionate glances of Rose were able to rouse him from his reverie. All at
opee the Lieutenant started. He had felt in his pouch and discovered the neck-
lace of-Rose, which he had carried ever since his visit to the island. He showed
it to the girl, whose joyful exclamation was the best thanks he could wish to
have. Anderson also evinced his satisfaction.
"This chain I gave her'when a child and it has always been a source of mourn-
ful pleasure. I bought two of them, one for .ose and the other for her sister,
and I can never look at this chain without thinking of her dreadful death. ' And
now my surviving daughter came near sharing her fate.  I feel, indeed, most
grateful to the Almighty who has so visibly protected her."
Rose tied the necklace around her neck and the canoe sped on Its way until
the Indian village was reached.  The party landed and the hunter led them to
the juse of the Beaver. Wild Rose stood in the door, playing the hostess in-
stead of per father, who had not yet arrived. Robert ran to meet her and beg
fore the whole company drew her to his heart,
Welcome'Robert," she said lovingly and with a shy grace, extremely beau-
tiful, " Wild Rose'is glad to see her husband safe hpme."
Her husband!" Anderson exclaimed, being unable to control the expres-
sion of disdainful disappointment, which the sight created in his heart. "I de= 4
Clare you are a sly dog, Robert, and henceforth-"
."Henceforth you will oblige me by treating this lady with the respect she de-
serves. She will be my married wife in a few weeks and as such command
universal regard, I hope."
It is doubtful how Anderson would have replied if nothing had interrupted
the conversation. As it was the arrival of the Beaver drew upon him the at-
tention of the party. He shook handh with all, and cordially' invited them
l                  to the hospitality of his house. When he came to Rose Anderson, he started
and his'eye fixed itself steadily upon the girl.  A close observer, however,
4 .a-  As .  * 5w -  .L~ AE .  . t' m ..y

,-

iK '

*outd have noticed that it was no less than the necklace of the girl, which at.
tracted his attention. After a few minutes the-chief recovered from his, emo.
tion.  He turned to Anderson and asked; "Is that your daughter?"
''Yes, chief, ry only daughter;"
"And this hecklace-how did she get it?"
" Why, of course, I gave it to her; how do you come to ask such a question?"
"You shall hear.  Did you live on the western slope of the Allegheny
Mouhtalns twenty years ago?"
" Yes, I did," the scout said; becoming more attentive.
"Was your house burned by the red.,men?" 
"It was, and I hever forgave the reimen either; for mywife and child were
cruelly butchered on'that occasion."
"Did your other daughter wear a like necklace?"
"She did, Beave. But why torment one with such useless questions? They
only grleve,me, and unless you give me the key to them I shall refuse to answer:"
The chief stood the prey-of a powerful emotion. . His body shook under the
powerful struggle. At last, however, he conquered. Leaving the astonished
company he stepped into the house and shortly returned with a necklace at the
sight of which Anderson started.
"Is this the necklace of your lost child?" the chief asked in a dejected manner,
" It is. ' See her name engraved on the lock, ' Mary Anderson'?"
The scout stared at the trinket, but his emotions were not altogether of a joy-
ful nature. With a sinister glance at the chief, he finally exclaimed; "Chief, 1
ought to thank you for this; but indeed I cannot, Perhaps you know..the mur-
derersi -perhaps you-" -
" Yes, I knew them, for I was there; but I did not participate in the deed. I
pan proudly say that I never steeped my hands in the blood of women and chil-
dren," replied the chief with a proud and noble mein,
"You say you cannot thank me for the necklace," he resumed. Perhaps you
can and will thane me for your daughter-there she is, take her. The Lod e of
the Beaver will be lonely not; but he wants to be just before he is happy.
During these words -he poi ted to Wild Rose, who stood by an attentive lis-
tener. After he had spoken e wrapped himself in his blanket and turned aside
presenting a picture of dignified-grief and manly resignation more than which
the history of Rome ever furnished. On the company this communication act-
edflike an electricshock. Anderson started, and seizing the chief's arm, said
imploringly: " Can this be true? ' It is not a cruel mockery merely to deride the
feelings of a Lather?"
The Great Spirit is my witness that I have spoken true. With my own
hands;I carried thechild from the house and never for a moment has she left
the lodge of her foster-father. ZNov the Beaver will see her no mdre-she will
go to gladden the home of the stranger, that never knew or loved her."
Anderson was satisfied. With steps trembling with emotion he turned to
Wild Rose and with outstretched arms exclaimed: "Marys my child"

asr"          . .  r 4 z
'A'  A~~~ -  ~ "  -' A~A~A  -

log

'                   T

to

Mw

.
." .,,

.}                    ".
'Ssi'+Ri , ,.'n'ix   = _iw'':L   .:.  ' #xc,}:x '=7"'.f""  - F',-    ; c
TIM Wltf) iAs1t O TIM, I3tAVEIL


c
F
!
S
' _
:
=i
.
.  -f
ss
r=
i
x_
}
It
y""9 .
=
v,
3 °,
t

'.-

A1,4

Is
F
L
r

I 10k            THE WILDY RO~hS OF  ~T BEVER(.
But Wild Rose did not stir. When he nade an effort' to embrace her she
simply took his hands, half in a spirit of remonstrance, half in that of a caress,
and said with a sweet smile, but in affirm voice:
"My father? I am glad to have found one among the pale-faces; butif I
thought he would want me to forsake myfrst father I should feel exceedingly
sorry. The Beaver has nursed me in the helpless days of infancy, should I now
repay good with evil, and forsake him in his age? Wild Rose cannot be so base."
Anderson listened-to his daughter with a mixture of surprise and love Wild
Rose could not read nor write, nor do all the other things which her sister un-
derstood; but in the exercise of high and noble virtues. she was her superior.
Not that theggirl at the Fort had not pcsessed these virtues, but they compared
with those of Wild Rose as the bud with the full blown flower.
Anderson, as we said, admired the magnanimity of his daughter.
"How can you hare so poor an opinion of your father? You shall not only
continue to love the Beaver-nay your white father will vie with you in your
love for the red one. Is my daughter satisfied?"
"My father is very good, but Wild Rose has other favors to ask. My father
has two daughters-will he allow me to give him also two sons?"
Two sons!" Anderson exclaimed. I have an idea where one of them might
be found, but the other-"
Wild Rosetook Robert by one hand and Sanders by the other.
"Does my father now see his sons? could he wish for better ones?"
Anderson was taken in. For 'a moment the shadow of a frown passed over
his face, but he was unable to preserve a serious countenance. Drawing Wild
Rose 'to his heart with an ecstacy of delight such as had not lit up his face for
many a day, he exclaimed:
"You are a perfectlittle vixen. You are fair to look at; but you are more
cunning than fair, and more good than cunning. Here, Rosy, don't .you, want
to hug this sister of yours?"
"Yes, father, as soon as I get a chance. Thus far you have kept her to yOur-
self."
"Well, go ahead, child, and in the meantime I'll look at this other son of
mine. How comes it, Sir Lieutenant, that you never spoke of this wish before?"
"I did, sir, begging your pardon."
"So? You did? Well, that makes your case only worse, for as far as I can
see you applied at the wrong door."
"-How could'I come to you knowing your inveterate hatred to all the uni-
formed servants of the commonwealth?"
" Aye, aye, true enough. But still I preserve my opinion concerning them.
If I make an exception in your favor that does not affect the rule. But I see the
girls are through with the huggin' process and you will most likely want to
come in for your share now. Or have you already tasted of forbidden fruit?"
In that way father Anderson endeavored to drown the excitement to which-he
had fallen a prey. , By and by he cooled down, however, and so did the whole

L

$

.t, Li:y,  °  yg,   «  ,. a{, - ,+es: x ,    d i ,  a F   . {+e_ . 5 ,g "3
_                       w~h  /,-I  !fiT'iA -+Y K y ' '. .

I,
'
t'

e
3       _
}'
a
'
_                    '
r'n
s_
0  T T   P       K " se - a a  9Y".  aa  i+     ... r5
_

\                    ar                        ,      s                                                  r    +.enw

.t
g

.

THE END.

£.... .. .4..Y "LAU.. e'. V,   %V, T     V-- f1T . vrV-,Tt

-1                       L
'.'ompan       ,       iTh  d WI&amp; R9Er OF*eS d 1Ee.dx a  the ptaifty of the
om   vhicentered th ' B"~er   t   e&amp;an'dl ariobk if hVo"t
chief; the plainness of which was still surpassed bu the genuine suavity with
which'it vas dipensed.                    ;
And now what else shall I add? That  the two couples were ma  A d in due
time you may imagine. That Wild Rose never deserted or neglected her red
father i a matterunderstood  Thati the Indiansin the sutnrier of 1782-gather-
eti at Fort McIntosh anid there concluded a peace, which like allIdiantreaties
k          was merely made in order to'be broken the reader knows from history. There-
fore hewill kindly allow; m  to withdraw ftlom his presencethanking him kind-
ly for his patient attendance to,#

T
r4

fj     ^ "   8        .  F-aT ':', -   }s PFX' w i+si~-V  "t r  }   +  a;=   Jyi 4
is '%z'       t   a   "  " :SC,',     c   tom. , .+ }   _ ..sr'&amp; ty 5yy,  #;

x
r    .

ffi
2
t
t
. }
4g
r

,
;
,
rx
t                    E
+


Ix
i- I
t
U:Rf

\ATES OF TUITION, PAYABLE MONTHLY IN ADVANCE.
Preparatory Department, per term                       -      $14 0O
Classical and Scientific,.per term,  -        . -       -   -   i6 o
Boarders accommodated at very liberal rates in the Seminary Buildings.
For further particulars address,
RUDOLPH LEONHART.
Tidioute, Warren Co., 1a.

7
4

4

r

1j
4'4
4

Is situated in the m At healthful andgicturesque situation
in the f-orough of Tidioute; and contains -school rooms at
once large, airy convenient and well furnished throughout.
The Seminary offers advantages to the student which are
certainlynot surpassed, and in mAny instances unequalled
by those which similar institutions of the land offer to the
young. While our course contains all the branches usually
aught in high schools we intend to make the modern lan.
guages a specialty, designing to teach particularly Germani
not only theoretically but practically,, thus enabling the
student to converse and write in this important idiom in a
very short time.
The Seminary is divided into a Preparatory Departient
in which Reading, Writing, Arithmetic and Geography
will be taught, and a Classical and Scientific Course, the
former including, the latter excluding, Latin. No extra
charges for studies outside of the regular course.
The, school year is divided into three terms of fourteen
weeks each, with a short vacation at Christmas and a long.
er ode during July and August.

t AM

I

4

!*

i


The Tubule 2t ±~lI"
NI( l zll r'.  \Xile  Jll'  O ll11t'Sl  CuI;tI wo  ll I'll  i1;1f( t ' ll   1lK~aI
T!c1_181  II El.' (fltV. Il'il !11' c( Vtt~dli tilllli Ierrn1 a
Iu  1V  t ll 'W'(U'&amp;.itill ; I 1V  b  itt  pl Ii  O la\  1~11')(I ~ 81  tl
\-,)11'". (W ile8''  Po il ll M'4 '111t1  ila  lltl   )'iN'   1 tj) ultl lt
wi l'l l  t ; r  l   1 4! 1 1 1 'hd I ( . I  1 i 1 1.1 t "1  Sw l l  i eI'  i i 1(1  tit
ai~  sli (i  mi.  t i ' lt  CtI 1 (Xllil(i 112. Ltin.11 No   extra1 1
1:117 t()11111  I1I  IS  ii 1111 111rte  Ist 8t1 1  1(tm  ( It fI~ u iie 4
w  Lil }f'tili{t' llt.ii  i;t jot ials  a tll i s (, 1 11 (  t l,
111'11'I Ic~di1«.tl( 17{UDG'C'tILUH LEONLai11.  -c)APxta
fel  sllll_+  (W 11.1 I'  )  tl(  1 Ti   I .'   Wa n  C

)
I

iN1

r II)iOLTi ,E ,PA.
£ihuiSipe

HADLEY &amp; WAL P .rp's

46,

- --. .- -  - .- I -- - - -- - -       Ab      m           wommoom

1'tA S~  AWSO N
ShlooJ and i~ceJlaaeous ooks,
Blak B0k -St2ioe r1y, Wlall1 Pape-r,
Cloth ~n   tic Shades,
L '1.1TS           4U
A U4 AQ'    ?~T~N~F      IIN

9
iR

'   a'
I i


lfE GEORGI PIANO FORTES:
AR2 NOV IlELI) TO BE
Finest in the Market,,
AND DEI\  L,'lS A ND P H I:RS
Ca buy them much Cheaper than similar
Fiist-(as IstTiiineiis mad" inl
New Yor'k (it\.
For Circulars and Prices address
Ceo. A. Ceorgi, Jamestown, N. Y.
From my Custoners.
.From Henry C. Bowen, Editor and Proprietor of the N. Y. Independent. "We
use a Georgi Piano Forte at our home and can s-lpeak front experience with re-
gard to them. They can challenge all competition without the fear of being
excelled, and a fair chance of not being equalled."
From Wm. A. Pond &amp; Co., the oldestt Music Ilouse in New York City. "New
'ork, (-)i't. 22, 1572. Geo. A. Georgi, Esq. Please send us another Piano Forte
samlie st\ l cas list (one. That instrum!ncot l)lcased1 uIs )yold all .expectation."
From Judge Breeden. "Santa Fe, New Mexico, Sept. 1, 1872. ( )uI eorgi
Piano Forte is pronounced by all leading musicians the best in the territory."
From Leading Musicians.
From the Nilsson Troupe.'\ "icuxtemps, Bosini and \'erger pronounce the
G eorgi as ine a Piano as they eer played on."
r    the Brn 1Con(Acert Trptip.  'The' lb'orgi Piano Fortes are as good
as Can he iade."
Irm Miss llenri etta Markstein 'the famous Concert Pianist of New York.
"New York, Juole 15.1870. I have tested one of the Georgi Piano Fortes. Its
touch is easy,( een and dexible; its t ne is tender, )ure and mellow, blending
beautifully With the t(Dice, and hax ing all the depth and power of the most so-
no-rus grand piano."
From Prof. '. P. Bliss, of Chicago. "' Your romantic Jamestown is becom-
lig    t   i nt' he  muisic' '11 ' 1 \ii worI for p'rodu  in  such  x excellent l ianos,"

"


                                                              
             
         
       
   
