
    ----CITATION----
        Robinson, J. H. (John Hovey) (b. 1825). The White Rover, or, The Lovely Maid of Louisiana .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7629
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The white rover, or, The lovely maid of Louisiana 
            
               THE

-ORo

THE LOVELY

MAID OF LOUISIANA.

ROACEO THE - ID FUI~To

BY DR. J. H. ROBINSON.

BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY FREDERICK GLEASON
OFFICE OF THE PICTORIAL DRAWING-ROOM COM
MUSEUM BUILDING, TREMONT S RIET.         {
1852~
,Ente .d accrinj to Act of Cnrrhi  e e r1 51L  aF G ,&amp; ori   "tii~s$ ef*
t        ,r                  r , " 't  4  it S. i~  ~"+t'  r   _ ~  't +,    .'l  aa7",h    . r6

z ,""   '4'   J    1
. r
_ s   .


PimrIsHER's NTa.-The following Novelette' was originally }blished in the PITORILn
Dz~wiNGR-loosi qoMPANIr, and is but a specimen of the many deeply entertaining Tales,
pnd gemsof literal  merit, which grace the columns of that elegant and highly popular journal.
The CoXPANIoN embodies a corps of contributors of rare literary excellence, and is regarded
as the ne plus ultra, by its scores of thousands of readers,
GLEASON'S PICTORIAL
A RECORD OF THE BEAUTIFUL AND USEFUL IN ART.
Tie object of this paper is to present, in the most elegant and available form, a we kly literary
mel ©ge of notable events of the day. Its columns are devoted'to;origninal tales, sketches and
poems, by the
;and             BEST AMERICAN AUTHORS,
and the cream of the domestic and foreign news ; the whole well spiced with wit and humor.
Each paper is
iEAUTEIFULLY ELLU$TRATE
ith numerous';ccurate engrvings, by eminent artists, of notable objects, current events in all
=yrs   of the we r dhand of incn and manners, altogether making a paper entirely original in its
es   i this country.. Its pages contain views of every populous city yin the known world, of
ildigs of note in the'eastern or western hemisphere, of all the principal ships and steamers
=  the,,navy and merchant service, with fine portraits of every noted character in the world, male
stuf femak:Sketches of beautiful scenery, taken from  life, are also -given, with numerous
n4 rm the animal kingdom, the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea. The Compan.
Ssnow printed on the finest of sstin su-face paper, from a font of new and beautiful type,
-  i¢      i fetred expressly for it,-presenting in it, mechanical execution an elegant specimen of art.
stains fifteen'hundred and sixty-four square inches, and sixty-four columns of reading matter
_d Illustrations-a mammoth weekly paper of sixteen octave pages. It forms
m u-  c h   'a imn  is  c o n sta n tly , .in  c o n n e c tio n  w ith  th e  fu n d  o f  a m u se m e n t  it  a ffo rd s,  a n d  th e
= ah i+  original miscellany it presents, to inculcate the strictest and highest tone of morality,
*x :&amp;t  e  crge virtue by holding up to view all that is good, and pure, and avoiding all that is
;n udency. In short, the object is to make the paper loved, respected and sought after
ombined escellences.
TS       8;:-$20 per volume, or $4,00 per annum, invariably in advance.
bJ1i#acs   months completes a volume, commencing on the first of January and July ; thus
'xtatig t o vfuumes p r year.
Y~ 41 nib  opy   f the FLAG OF OUR UNION, and one copy of the PrICToRIAL DRAWING-Roo
ot;     3    "year, for                                                      $5 06
oe ItrAL DnAWING-ROOM COMpA1xON may be obtained at any of the periodical
irolhout the country, fnd of newsmen, at ten vents per single copy.
lb    ; ei x *   xAY by                       F. GLi A, ON, BoSTON, MAss.
151 iasi"u, t repr doSpruce Street, New York.
1yx  ,:AYLOU  &amp; o., ill Baltimore Street, Baltinmore
E ti     ,W   115 Main Street, Cincinnati.
4Woodward Avenuie, Detroit.
~AD_  er of Fourt         e      s treets

p #wes.

CHAPTER I.

TSB HUNTER-CAPTAIN LEsAGE-A LIBERAL OFFER.

IT was the year 172-. Louisiana was then a
French colony. In 1718, by the direction of
de Bienville, fifty log huts chad been erected on
the west bank of the Mississippi River, to which
the name of New Orleans -had been given in
compliment'to the Duke of Orleans. Previous
to that date, the site where the, Crescent City
now stands had been covered with a dense for-
est, in which the red man hunted his game and
reared his lodge.
A few years had not greatly changed the as-
pect of the new settlement. It only numbered
about two hundred cttbins, although it had be-
come the seat of government-it having been
transferred thither from Biloxi after considerable
discussion in regard to the propriety of the
measure.
The population of New Orleans -at tie'time
we have chosen for the date of our story was
composed of all iinds. of people ; not a small
part of them being convicts shipped fromFrance
to hasten the settlement of the country, and to.
fre prisons already overflowing.
e ° ie ville, the governor, was a bold and
humane ,man, much esteeined by those
his auth9rity.

With this brief description of the Frenehaet4
tlement on the banks of the Mississippi, in 172-i
we shall proceed at once to the opening scenes
of our story.
It was a mild evening in the latter part of
June. The sunlight had fallen from thle green
leaves of -the forest, and lingered no longer on
the summits of the western hills.
At that calm and delightful hogr, the figur&amp;of
a man might have been seen standing thought-
fully upon the margin of Lake PonchartrairiA
beautiful sheet of water not far from thexie aw
settlement. In person he was tall and eeed
ingly muscular. Judging from his appearance
he had not seen less than thirty summ'ers-in
mers that had written lines of careupon 4i }
brow, and whose suns had left a deep bruwn
upon his face.
He could not have been called eenmel o
even good-looking,foiethere wass
ister in his ,epression-the' nether lip
with too much pride, the eyes were too fl
their glancelsand the fore   ed e       ;
erinto aeghpa3l  frlm' H
(ne might suj ose) had betn ~s

L      b   ..
1  /,  '  ,
i
-
        "'
. .. t, ,,
.,',A            ;rye

-  ,z
:
u",t.
ry   'F
"       V rrrp

ROVE-RI,


8  THE WHITE ROVER.

nature from the period of its earliest develop-
meat; and the same might be said, with some
show, of plausibility, in regard to his hair, which
reached quite to his shoulders.
The' individual's dress, to whom the reader's
attention has been called, consisted of a hunting
frock of dressed deer skin, breeches of the same,
Indian moccasons, and a common foraging cap,
probably manufactured by himself from the skins
of the musk-rat, or the coon.
A powder-horn ornamented with various de-
vices, and a ball pouch, were suspended from
his shoulders and hung at his side, where a hunt-
ing-knifp of large size was also visible, thrust'
beneath the leather thong which encircled his
waist.
In his right hand the hunter held a double-
barrelled rifle, which few men of the present de-
generate age would wish to carry; on account of
its great weight.
Suddenly the listless attitude of the hunter
changed. He had heard the sound of footsteps
in the forest near him.
"Moran, I 'have been seeking you," said a
voice; and the next moment a man of middling
stature, wearing the, uniform of a French officer,
stood beside the person we have here been de-
F         scribing.
'. What is your wish?" asked Moran, coldly.
"Moran,"returned the other, playing careless-
}ywith;the hilt of -his sword, " we-have met be-1
fore on several occasions."
"My memory is very good, Captain Lesage ;
you might have spared yourself the trouble of
making that remark," replied Moran, gruffly.
-I am something of a physiognomist, my
good friend," continued Lesage.  "I always
nake a studX of the human face, in order to
lea, something, of the character of its pos-
'An    you have been studying me, captain ?"
saidMorp, with a singular curl of the nether
Sofwhich mention has already been made.
o are right, Pierre Moran. I have studied
d y u are the very man I wish for under
u'stauces." .
0oronoLesnge," returned Moran.
'M  e      ho1d and daring fellow; blest with
=aA4:,L   4      14~,-a strong hand and steady
Sd4y. ad Ontures of all kinds."
.,  s.'3 -re,,  .  y, -o, y1   an  insinuat-
~ ~4~s~   ~bel~      nd soxue-
4%dztud 8in a quikk

and silent kind of way, you wo 'd be the man to
do it, provided that your'services were compen.
sated in a liberal manner; that is, in proportion
to the risk incurred."
For a moment a dqeper brown than usual
was visible upon the forehead of Pierre Moran;
but when Lesage looked up into his face for an
answer, it had passed away.
" You are very shrewd, captain," said the
hunter, with a smile. " But go on; let me hear
what you desire. Speak without reserve."
"1I will do so," returned Lesage. " It is some-
times the case, my worthy friend, that a person
has an enemy; one whom he utterly despises."
" That's very true, captain."
"Well; can you not conceive that a man who
has such an enemy might possibly wish to-"
"Get him out of sight," added Moran.
" You comprehend me, exactly. I see that I
have not mistaken my man. To be plain with
you, I have an enemy of this description, whom
I wish to remove from my path. He is very
dangerous ; he stands between me and my hopes
and purposes. I have gold, Pierre Moran; you
are a good shot I"
Lesage paused and played nervously with
his sword hilt.
" I comprehend," answered the hunter, biting
his lip.
"Name your reward," added Lesage, in a
voice less calm than that which he had at
assumed.
"You wear a sword, captain ; why not avenge
your own wrongs, and save your gold ?" said
Moran, looking contemptuously at Lesage.
" I do not choose to. There are many reasons
that make me anxious to entrust my vengeance
to the hands of another; and you are the man I
have selected."
"You do me honor, Lesage,".replied the
hunter, calmly.
" The young man whose existence endangers
my happiness, is in the habit of hunting about
the borders of this lake."
" His name, Lesage ?"
"I will whisper it, lest these trees should have
ears; it, is --"and the captain whispered the
name as he had promised.
"Did you hear?"
"Perfectly well, captain; but how -am [ to
know him ?"
" That-will be the easiest thngin the:world.
t1$llesiribo him. He is six tetvin height,
ormved,.straight as an anowdithe as so In-

dian, 4d the ladies call him handsome.. He is
poor as beggarr, and proud as a prince. His
complexion is dark, his eyes are black, his hair
of the -same color, and it is barely possible that
a little native blood circulates in his veins. He
mingles freely with the Indians, and seems to
have some influence among them."
"You say he is fond of hunting ?"
"It is his principal employment. He is quite
as much at home in the woods as the aborigines
themselves. He is an excellent shot, an4 carries
a rifle, which may, for aught I know, be twin
brother to your own. Do you think you should
know him, Moran?"
" Yes, captain."
"Well; that man stands in my way," contin-
ned Lesage, while his small gray eyes flashed
with intense hatred. "When you will assure
me-and bring proofs of what you affirm-that
he is removed from my path, two hundred
pounds will be subject to your order."
" Liberal, upon my word!" exclaimed Moran,
with another curl of that sinister nether lip.
"Is there more to say on this subject?" asked
Lesage, anxiously.
"No more, captain."
"Then we understand each other."
"Perfectly." -
" Two hundred pounds, Moran."
"I comprehend."
"It's settled, then ?"
" Entirely."
" You know where I am to be foui ?"
"I do ; good night.",

" Au revoir. I hope we shall meet again soon."
And Lesage turned on his heel and walked
away.
" Senseless idiot 1" said the hunter to himself,
when the form of Lesage had disappeared among
the trees. "Aphysiognomist indeed ! Smooth-
tongued dissembler ! for once you have reckon-
ed without your host. When Pierre Moran im-
brues his hands in the blood of his'fellow-man,
save in self-defence, may he never live to wash
out the foul stain, but pass to judgment fith all
his sins upon his head. Go, Lesage, and find
some other arm to slay one whom you dare not
meet on equal terms. Pierre Moran can meet
the red man two to one, and live through the
fight ;'he can bring down the panther at two
hundred yards, or he can battle successfully with
the howling wolf-but a murder he cannot do;'
and then he added in a lower tone, '"it was well
for him that he found Pierre Moran in a calm
and patient mood."
With these words, the hunter shouldered his
rifle and moved away along the margin of the
lake. The moon had arisen, and her silvery
rays were reflected softly upon the glassy waters.
Tempted by the calm beauty of Ponchartrain,
Pierre Moran paused occasionally in his solitary
walk, to contemplate its sleeping depths.
At length he turned from the lake and entered
a dark dingle upon the right. Finding a spot
suitable for the purpose, he gathered dry sticks
and leaves, and by means Qf some powder and a
flint set the heap on fire ; soon a bright blaze
lighted up the dingle.

a

8

9

THE WHITE RCVER.


A-

CHAPTER U.
THE SURPRISE--A PRISONER-THE RESCUE-THE WHITE ROVER.

PIEnRE MQRAN laid down his rifle, spread his  The Indian drew up his majestic figure to its
blanket upon the ground, and lighted his pipe. greatest height; he raised his red hand and
-eating himnse f by the .cheerful blaze, column pointed his long fingers fixedly at Moran, while
afer columnoftbe fragrant smoke went curling his eyes flashed like meteors.
upward, and he watched the fantastic wreaths as  "'T is proudly spoken, bold pale face ; but it
they dissolved and disappeared in the air.  avails not-you are a prisoner."
Suddenly a majestic figure seemed to rise up "Who are you?" asked Moran, somewhat
out pf the earth and stand beside Pierre Moran. impatiently.
he latter sprang to his feet and grasped his  "I am Onalaska, the leader of the allied na-
huntingknife,-for the- foot of the intruder was tonss" replied the red man, with a kingly wave
planted firmly upon his rifle.              of the hand. "The hatchet is dug up and will
'What does the pale face do here'?" asked the never be buried. The Chickasaws are burning
ntrtider, in a stern voice. "Does he not know  to avenge their wrongs ; they have communicat-
that these great forests, these fair lakes, and ed the same contagious fire to the Choctaws, the
these broad rivers belong to the red man'?"  Natchez and the Mobilians. In a few months
"The red man and the white are, brothers," the white man will be swept from the great val-
replied Moran, eahnly.                      ley of the Mississippi. Their cabin-fires will be
'"'Tis false 1" exclaimed the Indian, fiercely. extinguished forever, and their' dwellings shall
"They never were brothers, and they never can become heaps of ruins. The fate of the Long
be. They aretwo distinct races of people, and Knives*'is sealed."
e   reat Spirit has placed eternal enmity be-  " This is a new movement," said Pierre, much
t tiem."           -                     wrought upon by the words of the proud chief-
that matters little to me," replied* Pierre. tain.
favors of white man or red. The for-  "Onalaska has not been idle; he has been
Jt F   y ome, and I will not be driven from it successful. The time has come to strike a blow
rt    {jeverytree conceal an enemy thirsting for
-mOW  :y' f;oui came to intimidate me with
SIy  ll lo se tour labor for the  * The whites were frequently called "Long
oillloseyur           laboraf        Knives  by the Indians, on account of their
t    rreMoran never pulsed with fear." swords.

''I

THE WHITE ROVER.

I'

which shall send terror to the hearts of the
French dogs."
"Proud Indian, Pierre Moran is a French-
said the hunter, sternly.
" And a prisoner," 'added the chieftain, with a
grim smile.
"'Tis not true. I do not yield myself a pris-'
oner. There, is not a single arm that can con-
quer Pierre Moran, in a hand to hand encounter,
to be found between the source of the great,
river and its mouth."
As the athletic hunter spoke, he drew his
knife from its sheath, and struck his left foot
fiercely upon the ground a little in advance of
the right.
" Haughty. savage, Pierre Moran is ready !
Come on!"
The Indian smiled scornfully.
" I have only to shout the battle-cry of the
Chickasaws, to bring an hundred warriors upon
you," he said, slowly. "Pale face, put back
your knife; to fight would be madness!"
Moran replaced his knife in its sheath.
"Whatdo you intend to do with me ?" he
asked, fixing his dark eyes earnestly upon Ona-
laska.
"My warriors shall decide."
"I thought I was talking with a great chief,"
returned'Pierre, contemptuously.
"And so you are; but a wise leader will al-
ways please his warriors when he can," said the
Indian.
" Listen to me," replied the;hunter. "I will
tell you hcw we may decide this matter. You
are as strong and brave as any of your warriors.
.Draw your hunting-knife and meet me on equal,
terms, foot to foot, breast to breast, and hand to
hand. He that is vanquished in the fight, let
him be at the mercy of his victor. Let your
braves remain where they are, and not put
"forth their hands to decide the contest. Speak,
Onalaska; is not the offer fair ?"
" No, it is not," replied Onalaska. " I am a
great war-chief-the leader of the alliednations,
and you are without rank or title-a nameless
hunter. My life belongs to my people, and why
should I put it in peril, and thus endanger my
great enterprise'?  The idea is foolish, and not
to be thought of. Why should I risk so much
when you are already in my power'? Pale face,
when you fight Onalaska, it. must be in battle."
" Listen once again, proud savage," continued
Pierre Moran. " If jou will not meet me in the'
manxner proposed, bring to me your mightiest

warrior, and I #ill try my str
with ,him in anyway he may
conquer I will be free."
For reply, the chief uttered
war-cry, and instantly an hundred
riors showed their grim 'faces ab.
which the hunter had kindled.
'T The white hunter is a captive ; wha.
braves do with him'?" said Onalaska.
There was a hurried consultation among
warriors. At length a chief stepped for%,
and said:
"Let the pale face die according to the custom
of the red man."
"He has a brave heart," said Onalaska.
"Then he will die like a man, and not like a
squaw," replied the chief who had spoken.
" He has never fought against our people
continued Onalaska.
"Let him perish then, before he slays an- of
our warriors, as other Frenchmen have done;"
rejoined the chief.
Onalaska said no more ; he folded. his atn#
and allowed his people to have their own way
in regard to the captive., Preparations ae e
stantly made to put him to death. Ho y,
bound firmly to a tree. Dry fagots    eOo
brought :d heaped about him. A circle-was'
formed around the condemned, andthe death
dance celebrated. The dingle, so quiet an hour
before, resounded with terrific shouts.
[stn ENGRAVING.J
Pierre Moran prayed silently for strengt, and
courage, and resigned himself to.is fa ,av-
age eyes flashed upon him, and sharp steel
blades menaced him.
The stout heart of Pierre Moran saink within
him. He beheld all the avenues of hope closed
forever.
A tall savage stepped forward, waving a fiery
brand that was to light the pile. He shook the
blazing fagot on high, and laughed in fiendish
triumph ; then he fired the combustible heap n
several places, and the flames eaped upward.
At that fearful crisis, there was a pdden
commotion among the warriors; theygave vay
to the right and left, and a young white'man
dashed quickly through the broken circle, i4ed
back the savage who held the burningybrs,
and scattered the blazing 'ago,
all directions; th%  drawing
from his belt, lle severed thsi$Af
Moran in an instant.

f"

r    x.
t   :         J   ,f ,
.          i


i  ii *mih ROVER

" Spoken like a true man," said the hunter.
May I be permitted to ask if yoi r home is
near the new settlement ?"
" Sometimes it is near, at "others afar off"
answered Delcroix, lightly. c At present, my
home is wherever night overtakes me. I am a
free denizen of the forest; a licensed wanderer
among hills and'mountains."
" A bold heart, truly. Pardon me if I ask
your name ?"
" I am called Henri Delcroix by the French;
but the red man, not unfrequently, styles me the
'WHITE ROVER.' I can tell you but little of
my history. I' was born in the great valley of
the Mississippi about the time of the first settle-
meint at Biloxi. My early youth was passed
mostly among the Indians, but I was' finally
domiciled in the house of a good priest, who
taught me to read and write. I renlember a
French woman, also, who seemed very fond of
me, and taught me much that was useful. The
priest is still living. Lie has recently taken up
his residence at the new settlement, which they
call New Orleans, and I am allowed to follow
my own inclinations. This is about all yam at
liberty to tell you of my own history."
"In return for your frankness," replied the
other, "I will inform you'that'my name is Pierre
Moran. Like 'you, my home is in the woods,
for I am a hunter. I am familiar with every
acre of the country an hundred miles up the
river. I know where the deer goes down to
drink; where the fox seeks covert; where the
Wolf prowls at night ; and where the panther
loves best to lie in wait fir its prey. I know
something of the Indian tribs, also, and of the
habits of that strange people. When you de-
sire the aid of a strong hand, and a huntes ~
friendship, give the preference to Pierre Moran.
The'service you have rendered me this night,
makes me your friend forever."
"I thank you for your manly proffers of friend-
ship; for in these troublous times, true friend-
ships are rare," returned Deleroix, warmly.
"And real enemies too often found," rejoined
Pierre.
"Yes; and how much it is to be regretted,"
said Delcroix, sadly.
" And now, while I think of it, permit me to
whisper these words of warning in your ear:
" Beva*e of LT*ige !"
Henri Deleroix started at the mention of Le-
sdge, de if a serpent had stung him.
"Yous ktiow that man, then ?" he replied,

PIERRE MORAN BOUND POr EXECUTION.-See Chap. II, page 10


THE WHITE ROVER.

turning quite suddenly and looking steadily at
Moran.                -...
"'I do. I have, by some fatality, met him
several times."
" Is he a friend of yours l"
" God forbid !" said Pierre Moran, earnestly.
" Then you are not pleased with him, Mon-
sieur Moran ?"
"1I am not; and it is possible that the time is
near when I will give you my reasons for dis-
liking him. But now let us decide where we
shall pass the rest of the night."

" Go with me to ,the settlement. Father D
vion always has-a spare bed for my friends.",
"I accept the kind offer. - I can alrea4y sq
the fires of New Orleans."
In a few moments, Hepri Deicroix and tb
swarthy hunter stood in the midst of the mini
ture city. They entered a cabin not far firo
the spot where the old Cathedral now stand
and in a short time were wrapped in a profound
slumber, forgetful of the toils and perils of th
day.

CHAPTER III.
HELEN LEROWE-ADELAIDE-THE DECLARATION.
IT was the morning following the events de- us again in the day of our afflictions,"saida p
tailed in our last chapter. It was quite early, and interesting looking woman, as our hero
for the sun still lingered upon the eastern verge. crossed the humble threshold. "There are Ye
At that hour a female figure might have been few young and fair like yourself, who love
seen walking hurriedly up the street, now known visit the poor and needy. God will reward yo
as Chartres street. That portion of her face Mademoiselle Lerowe," added the woman.
which was not concealed by a veil, was sufficient " How is your husband ?" asked Mademoiseli
to assure any one who might have any curiosity Lerowe, kindly, throwing back her veil,
in relation to the subject, that she was quite  " Louis is much better, thanks to your gent
youthful and exquisitely fair.'_ ministration, but it was an ugly wound, Mad
She was well dressed, according to the style moiselle Helen," replied the woman.
of that period ; but she was by no means indebt-  " And how is Adelaide l"
ed to mere externals for that rare beauty of out-  " She will answer for herself," said a so
line, that graceful development of person, which voice, and a young girl of about seventeen yea
was hers, and which cou not fail to excite ad- appeared from an adjoining room.
miration in the most casual observer. So far  "You are looking rather pale this' Morni
as stature was concerned, she compared very You must go and walk in the open air. VThe
well with the models of female perfection, es- of a sick room does not agree with young bloe
teemed by classic minds in all ages of the world. like yours, Adelaide," rejoined flelen, study
Hers was that exalted and pure style of, love- the features of her young friend attentively.
liners, pre-eminently calculated to please and be-  " I have known young ladies to have;pa
wilder all true admirers of beauty in woman.  cheeks without inhaling the air of a sick room
As she moved lightly onward, there was grace returned Adelpide, playfully.
and poetry in every motion ; not that received  Helen Lerowe blushed, and placed her !hi
from art, but that borrowed from nature herself. fingers on Adelaide's lips.
The fair girl turned to the.left, and entered a  "For all your acts of kianness ldu ng nf
cabin, near the present site of the St. Charles ther's severe illness, I thanlyo t sin 
Theatre.                                   Mademoiselle Helen," adc d ,del 4ea*
"Ah, mademoiselle ! you have come      e ,serious and earest

I

.t,
i
;
,{

t,
'S.
4          -            .
S3 n       -
5 .. ,y                  -        -     ,   i
'r,':x'     -'r: -,
. i t
=                                    r

t                                                       ' 'e (  f' F ' sl'i'""N 'R"1


THE WYHF'
{Yomay leave off the Mademoiselle, Ade-
d 1ds for thanks, you neednot say aworl
t~eini.You know tlhatiifuture we are to
the best of friends," rejoined Helen.
S o foget delen, that I-Yambut poor girl,
different position in life," said Ad-
' M e  ky -
.Ad ot forget, Adelaide, that I am-also but
ir    grl, and :nothing but the governor's
Tere is a great difference between a
and a daughter, my good friend," replied
len.

But you are an inmate of the governor's
e, andaskindlytreated as it you werein-
id his daughter," said Adelaide.
Very true ; and yet there are times when I
but too painfully that I amnot his daughter,
knerely a dependant upon his bounty," an-
ued Helen, sadly.
1 am not certain that you ought to cherish
Ii feelings, Mademoiselle Lerowe. We all
that his Excellency, De Bienville, is very
of you."
' - n could not have confided me to the
tter man than De Bienville," replied
estly; "but notwithstanding, there are
en n my heart feels the want of a
'aove, and a father's counsel."
rr  -- Mademioiselle Lerowe was speaking,
or assoftly opened, and Henri Delcroix
apartment. His eyes rested upon
lfjaii'   of Helen Lerowe. He recoiled a
changedgcolor, and seemed embarrassed.
°xtMow 7Ztappeared contagious, for Helen
San~d was quite as much embarrassed.
nri bowed low, and said vith tolerable
r't ;ges"me pleasure to meet you here, Ma-
eaLee. The object of your visit, I
7ask.  t is a part of your nature to per-
'of beneolene. I dare say that Mad-
'         iand Adelaide will bear witness to
I ave  ka,'theliberty to aflirm."
go willmyhusband," said Madame
releged together to confuse
t ' r*1kelli1me' with useless compliments,"
4 lelen with Asmile.
Po means useless,
ee4;    Henri, respectfully.
r      iMey, in order to change
r    '_ p    ed wasreaUy annoy-
,is        tknoring ? May wer
..   his out iaain ?"

il ROVER.

"'He is doing well,: Monsieur Henri. ' His
wounds are nearly healed. In a few days he'
says he shall be able to take thetrail again, and
punish the treacherous Chickasaws," answered
Madame Ridelle.
Helen turned   depart.,
" Stay," said  e kind matron, with a signifi-
cant smile. " B seated ; we cannot spare you
yet."
" Of course not," added Adelaide, and with a
gentle force, she compelled her to be seated.
Madame Ridelle drew Deleroix aside, and
whispered in his ear:
" Improve your time, Henri. Don't be faint-
hearted. We will endeavor to give you ample
opportunity. Just speak to her, and my word
for it, she will not be angry."
Henri made no reply, but gave her a grateful
look.
" Adelaide, did not your father call? " added
Madame Ridelle, after a moment's pause.
Adelaide hastened to the bedside of her father,
begging Helen to remain until she returned.
Very soon Madame Ridelle followed her daugh-
ter, who called to her.
Mademoiselle Lerowe and Henri were left
alone. An awkward silence ensued. .
" Mademoiselle Helen," said Henri, seating
himself at her side, " condescend to listen to me
a single moment, and if in that moment I offend
you, it will be the unhappiest of my whole life.
I have never yet presumed to tell you with my
lips what I am convinced your own penetration
discovered long ago in my actions, viz., that I
passionately love you. Yes, more than this ;- -
I worship-I adore you. But, beautiful Helen,
these terms but imperfectly express my heart's
idolatry."
Henri's voice tremb  he hesitated, and then
ventured to take Helen s hand.
" HAve patience wit  ie dear mademoiselle ;
hear what I have to say, 'and I will not soon
trouble you with the story of my unhappy love
again. I know that you are an angel of good-
ness, and placed far above me in life. I cannot
hope that you will ever become more to me than
you now are ; yet I have resolved to unburden
my heart, in order that I might have a portion
of that gentle sympathy which you are wont to
bestow upon all the unfortunate."
Again Henri's emotions overpowe     him.
Helen's eyes were full of tears, and she -embled
excessively.
a hCease yo speak thus, I entreat of you," she
said in a:voice nearly inaudible.

THE WHITE ROVER.                                  1
"I know it wounds your gentle nature to see ing maiden towards him, and ventured to p
meconenumed with a hopeless passion," contin- his lips lightly to her crimson cheek.
ned Henri, " and I will trespass but little farther  " Helen," he added, "now am I indeed
upon your time and patience. In extenuation The days of my boyhood seem to be recapet
of my folly, I would entreat you to remember, Henceforth I have something to live for.
Helen, that I have known you from my boy- will live to make myself worthy of Helen I
hood ; thatjwas the companion ofyour earliest rowe. I will win a name that shall be worthy o1
wanderings over the green hills of Biloxi; that her, or perish in the effort. Now I am but a
Father Davion taught us to read from the same unknown lad, without money, and I might ad .
book,;that he bade me love you as a sister; without parentage; but, I trust it will not always
that you were surpassingly beautiful, and a heart be thus, for now I have as great an incentive t
less susceptible than mine might have loved you. action as ever mortal man had."
Alength you came a ward, or rather the   "Nay, Henri, you overvalue me. You forge
adopted daughter of De Bienville. Thereafter that I am as portionless as yourself; and that m
you were gently nurtured, and a greater distance parentage is involved in an obscurity as dark a
was placed between us in point of condition; your own. I have no claims to gentle birth,al
but the mischief was already done. I had learn- am but a dependant upon the boun  of the ex
ed to adore you, young as you were, and your cellent governor," replied Helen,  estly.
dear image was engraved upon my heart, never  " You lose sight of many advantages which
to be effaced. I still met you often, and you you possess. You are known as the fairest ,o
usually paused for a moment to speak kindly to $he daughters of Louisiana. There is not a ma
your former associate and companion, and thus in the colony but would be proud to lay hb
unconsciously nurtured my passion. Helen, is heart at your feet, were he sure the offer
my presumption to be wondered at ? Is it not would be accepted. It would be easy'for
a natural consequence of our former compan- elnoiselle flerowe to marry a fortune," rep
ionship ?"                                Henri.
" 0, Henri, why will you thus misapprehend  "Such an absurd idea never occurred
me. I do not reproach you--I do not blame Mademoiselle Lerowe," rejoined Helen,,s
you," .replied Helen, in a voice tremulous with "Helen," continued Henri, seriously, "
emotion.                                  you willing to sacrifice ambition to love, and'
"Then you are not angry because I have main as you now are until Dame Fortune ab
spoken freely ; you do not too severely condemn enable me to claim you as my bride."
my presumption !" exclaimed Henri, falling up-  " It will be no sacrifice, Henri; and as foram
on his knees, and pressing the hand of Helen to bition, I have little of the kind you refer to,
his lips,                                 said Helen.
"Ah, Henri! how blind you have been," she "Your kind words render me unspeakable
said, softly.                             happy. And now, dear girl, allow me to m
A sudden and almost overpowering light you here as often as propriety will admit"
flashed in upon the mint of -Henri Delcroix.,  "I should be rather a poor judge of the
His brain seemed to stagger with the weight of named commodity, I fear," answered the maiden
the truth, which his senses had received. The with a smile.
blood rushed tumultuously to his face; his eyes  "On the contrary a   1eof prpr
sparkled with unnatural light;-he was dizzy ety," said Henri. "         thersubtI
with happiness.                           must speak of before we      I have often
He bestowed upon Helen a thousand endearing seen Capt. Lesage enter  governor's hos
epithets ; he did not cease to kiss her hand until My heart told me that  motive i
he heard the footsteps of Adelaide.       there. Was IrightHm"
He arose from his knees with a face radiant  The sweet face of  suffused    :W
with joy.     -,blushes.
*   " I have been indeed blind," he said, in a low  ," You Were not  4  o~~upep
,tone, " for you love me."                  He baa, persecuted
Adelaide saw how matters were progressing, "M41(you gat y
and hastily retreated-to her father's rates.  " Cirtainly not.
-,The happy lover drew the tearfa.1 ad blush- " Well, Helen?


Ti~ WEJIE ROViER.

tien, adidaccuedme of loving

T1I4ia 7Y"     am erin that you have
sr frboMhberforFby some means hd
d   4s red your seretf and mine;too, per-
N   ee isa ant1Nat will not brook denial,
44dnce resolved upon a; thing, nothing
Meigie his prpose"
"othaernot mistaken hisjcharacter. He
0"e44 ldimgedros miin, and capable of any
of villany. How does he stand with De
e ve° Agood terms,'I believe."
o'y   uagie 'that the governor favors
tetensin
_  t-t i bject I am in doubt. 'I hope not,
rtily despise the character of the
ere' still another subject upon which I
here is a ptospe t of a long and
Swar wi&amp; the Indians. Already have the
cbied'their'depredations, provok-
# e  oi to believe, by some overt aet
9Capt.. .esage. Onalaska has
is warriors, and sept deputa-'
neighiboring nations; to the
~  s', t e  obilians, and the
e alu ixbering desire for virgeance
he council-fires of the
g on every hill, and in every
nvery iver;-and unless this
k led at once, every white mal-will
W  _ ttbrlthi great valley of the Missis-
SThe settlement at Mobile, at tauphine
d a   mnsacola; and here at New Orleans,
41 f ilultaneously; for, by a wonderful
-iallthese. infant colonies will
e     of  ent iLerowegrew pale.
61ercifulheaven.I" she exclaimed. "Is the
~eiuler~  indie= '  ent ?'..
. in   er     tie :hild's play about it.
laeteev free to go among
e       d that I have ever been
tf =he In        d.   r I believe they liave
the&amp;.dea that a goodly portion of their
..ththe white currents
d  enriw with a slight
y ,  il"fr           e ?   ~yYhas itiay;1Ihave

acquired coosiderable influence over the minds
of our -ed neighbors. No Imger ago than last
night, I dared to dash into their midst, and
snatch a victim from the jaws of death,'even af-
ter the :fires were lighted., And," continued
Henri, with a flashing eye and a heaving chest,
" I escaped unharmed. Not oneof the horribly
painted warriors pointed a feathered arrow,-or
raised"a' tomahawk against me. There is not
another man in Louisiana that could have done
it."                              -
"I'll answer for the truth of that assertion
with my ,life," said a voice.
Henri and Helen turned toward the door, and
their eyes rested upon the figure of Pierre
Moran.
" There is not another man in the French
colony that could have done it and lived to tell
his sweetheart of it. Pierre Moran says it," ad-
ded the hunter.
"And he would be a bold man who would
dare gainsay you," replied Henri. "Permit me
to introduce you to Mademoiselle Lerowe."
Pierre bowed gallantly, and expressed the
pleasure he experienced in making the acquaint-
ance of so fair a lady.    '
" As you stayed much longer than you had
anticipated,", said Moran, turning to Henri, " I
feared something unfortunate had befallen you,
and camepromptly to the rescue ; but I perceive
that you can dispense with my services."
Henri and Helen exchanged glances, and
changed color.
At that crisis Madame Ridelle and her inter-
esting daughter appeared, and Pierre Moran was
greeted as an old acquaintance.  .
" I have hunted many a day, and camped
many a night with Ridelle,"- said the hunter.
"And I have fought he savages side by side,
with him, and hope to again, for there will soon
be warm work in the colony."
"Do you think so ?" asked Madame Ridelle,
anxiously.
" There can be no doubt of it, madame., It's
a fact that might as well be known first as last.
The red men are aroused to vengeance, and
much blood will be shed."
Madame Ridelle sighed. Monsieur Moran
looked furtively at Adelaide, and Adelaidelook-
ed down at the flor.'

- CHAPTER IV.
RA IDENTIAL INTEBVIEW-FATHEn DAVION-THE ARREST.
ITw'    e ning. De Bienville and Lesage whole red race; and not without causefor 'f
were closeted together.                     not every Frenchman on the Mississippi inan-
"Are you really in earnest," said de Bienville, ger ?  It is not easy to guess what asingth  dan
"when you assure me that this young man has may bring forth. To-day we rest in glconpa
incited all the Inian tribes against the French tive security, but to-morow we may be toa-
colonists ?"                                hawked and scalped, and our infant city
" I never was more so, your excellency," re  ashes."
plied Lesage.    a-,,.,..
plie Lesge." Lesage," said de Bienville, abruptly, c T =ave
"But what is the secret of his influence among been acquainted with the various tribes on te
them'?  Can you tell me that ?" asked de Bien- Mississippi River for twenty-one  rs  n the
ville, incr edulously. ,p1ie                                  rtet-n years, and I'
yule, incrduouti , have not yet acquired that influence over their
" The truth is he is not free from' nativeblood, minds which you say this beardless boy has. I
himself. He has associated with the Indians what you say be true, nature   boy      if
from his childhood, and having considerable tended him for a great man."
natural shrewdness, has learned how to operate  "For a great villain, you meant to say, your
upon tieir impulsive natures. He is known also excellence," retorted Lesa , somewhat tartly
to be the intimate friend of Father Davion, and " I meant asI sad     edr th g  ry
he possesses great influence among the savages," drily. "It  quires a bold arne e governor
replied Lesage, withmuch apparent sincerity,  lay such a plan as ye have been talkingof A
" Is it possible that this bo j has Indian blood miserable coward -aopalby knavecouldo.
enough'to make him plan the destruction of all it: Bute still the  y g vabod snot do
the French settlers upon ,the Mississippi ?" ex- looked to."
claimed de Bienville, nervously.   -        "You cannot atte xd to the matter tooon
"It is too true," replied Lesage, musingly. your excellency. Atteay the ae is laidat th
"One drop of Indian blood would be enough to root df the tree.
contamhitwe the best man in the country." "Hold!" cried de"3envie, wie
udo netlikeour red neighbors, captain ""When he devilquot  Sei'ptune men Shoul
r  gied ie, looking searchingly atLetage. be on their  enrd",
I pla  guilty to the charge. I hate' the  "Ade Bienvihe, you are .scarcelywaeo


20                   THE WHITE ROVER.

the danger that threatens this devoted colony.
Already I seem to hear the shrieks of helpless
women, and the wailings of innocent babes.
Good heavens ! that such depravity should be
found on earth !" and the tender-hearted captain
covered his face with his hands, and paced the
floor in deep affliction.
"Be calm, Captain Lesage," said the governor,
somewhat softened by his emotions. " Restrain
your anxiety; immediate steps shall be taken
to arrest the threatened calamity."
De Bienville paused, and seemed absorbed in
thought.
"And this boy was the friend and playmate of
Helen," he said, musingly-" the bright and in-
telligent youth I used so much to admire.
Strange that the human countenance should be
such a falsehood,. and furnish no key to the
character of its possessor."
Then turning suddenly to Lesage :
"Do you think Father Davion knows aught
of Henri's plans, or really understands his dis-
position ?"
I do not. The good old man has not the
remotest idea of the baseness of the serpent he
has nurtured in his bosom. When the whole is
made known to him, it will bring his gray hairs
m sorrow to thegrave."
And some of our heads, it would seem, wil
be brought down to sheol before our hairs have a
 thance to grow gray. Alas, we are an unfortu
nate people. Lesage, I wigh there were some
mistake about this matter. I do not wish to
think so hardly of the boy ; and do Bienville
walked the room with agitated and uneven steps
" Go and arrest him," he said, at length, in s
sorrowful voice. " Go and arrest him," and h
waved his hand for Lesage to depart.
"I never gave an order with so much reluc
tance," he said to himself, when the captain ha
gone. "I really liked the lad; but what a veno
mo-s viper ho is, to be sure. And.so young
too. Mon Die! I am losing all faith in humax
nature."
We-will now, gentle reader, bend our foot
stops _to-,the humble- cabin of Father Davion-
one whose name is already recorded upon th
page of history, as the friend and instructor o
the poor and untutored savage.
'The venerable old man was alone. He wa
engaged in the most ennobling of all huma
ployseentspraerm  t  hr opefear,"u
for- himself._
I'reerve s rom A1..t+.horors ofwar," It

cried, elevating his hands and bowing his head
low-upon his breast. " Save my people from
blood-guiltiness. Disarm the poor red man of
his vengeance; protect this feeble colony, lest it
perish from the face of the earth."
Father Davion arose from his knees. The
door opened and Henri Delcroix entered.
"Pax vobiscupa " (peace be with you), said the
man of God.
"Under your roof," replied Henri, feelingly,
" I have ever found the blessing which you have
now invoked.
" Deo gratias (thanks be to God). It makes
my heart glad to hear you say so, my son. But
what are these rumors that are afloat in New Or-
leans ? Sit down and tell me. Is there really any
danger of a simultaneous rising of the Indians ?"
" There is, good father. The peril is immi-
nent, and if some decisive measures are not im-
mediately taken by the governor to soften down
the spirit of vengeance, or to meet it face to face,
the French settlements will be swept away with
the besom of destruction."
The holy father crossed himself most devoutly.
Deus in adjutorium meum intended ! You must
- hasten to the governor at once, and give him
due warning."
" Alas, his ears are not open to counsel like
l mine," answered Henri, sadly. "Other tongues
are busy with him, and my bare assertion would
- avail but little."
" Do you mean to say, my son, that the gov-
ernor's mind is already closed against you?"
"I have good and sufficient reasons for be-
lieving so ; for he has dangerous counsellors.
a Lesage, forgetful of all but self, is constantly
e pouring his subtle poisonsinto the governor's
mind, and soon there will be no room there for
- aught save distrust and anxiety. One Pierre
d Moran, a hunter, whose name you have doubtless
- heard, has been with de Bienville to-day, and he
heard enough to 'convince him that I'should
a have little or no influence with him, although I
am known to have an accurate knowledge of the
Indians and Indian character."
" Ah, Henri! de Bienville prides himself on
e his own knowledge of Indian character," said
)f .Father Davion.
" And not without reason. He is wise and
s sagacious in that respect, and is much esteem
n by the red;man ; but he -is not admitted into
)t; their confidence, es I have been."
"Very true, my son; you are indeediu afar-
e ~fnl dilenuna. You cannot ight again as u

THE WHIZ
people, and how can you betray the trust of the
poor Indian-lift your hand against him who
has fed and warmed you !" exclaimed Father
Davion, with much emotion.
" Your words fill me with apprehension; holy
father. I am indeed painfully embarrassed. My
thoughts distract he! But Mon Dieu! I can-
not stand still and see the savage curs shedcthe
blood of these helpless colonists ! No no ! I
will fly to the forests ; I will present myself be-
fore the red men. I will tell them I shake off
their friendship forever; that henceforth there is
no bond of sympathy between us;that I will
meet them in the field, and in the forest, as
deadly enemies ; that I cannot turn renegade to
my own blood. Give me my rifle, my powder-
horn, my ball-pouch, my hunting-knife, and let
me away !"
"No, stay, my dear boy. Let us think calmly ;
let us plan deliberately ; let us look the danger
calmly in the face."a
" And while we are doing that, the war-cry
may perchance be heard all along the banks of 
"But reflect, my son ; you must not throw I
away your life when your aid is so mich needed
by these defenceless people. Women and chil-a
dren claim the protection of every hand that can I
lift a musket or wield a sword."
"And there is one, good Father Davion, that
Henri Delcroix would die to save," said the
young man, in a low, impressive voice.    a
"What !" exclaimed Father Davion.  "Is
your heart then enthralled by the blandishments v
of woman ?"
" It is ; and her name is Helen Lerowe, the p
fairest of the fair, and for her sake I would face
a thousand deaths, and my heart should not pul- h
sate with a single fear for myself."
" Now may Heaven be merciful, Henri, for ti
there is indeed danger before you !"
" D o  you  reproach  m e, father, for  loving  that'  ,  l  il - n  h m y u y u sl  a g te I)
noble girlone werhom you yourself taught mt t
to love as a sister, when you taught us to read 'c(
from the same bookI"
No, no! I do not reproach you. Were it
riot, foir the -ruin which you will draw down upon ,of
your own young head, I would rather you should'
fix your love upon 'Helen Lerowe, than any other ar
woman in the world. But do you not-see'that
your relations to her are 'changed? She is no
ongr r                      ae o   e   v- e
1e'aebomhylished lady. She has no deart o

rE ROVER.                                21
lovers. She can choose from the titled and the
wealthy; and be assured de- Bienville will ixer=
cisc a parent's authority over her actions;.at
least, so far as it seems to him for her good."
" Allyou have said is true; but do not imag-
iae that it has not occurred to me4 before. I
have thought of it for many months ; but to-day
I have done more than simply to think=-I have
acted. Helen loves me, and our mutual vows
are registered in heaven."
"Rash boy ! you are rushing headlong to your
ruin. You have rich and powerful rivals,who
will crush you at a blow. How can a friendless{
nameless, homeless youth enter the arena and
do battle with such odds !" cried Father Dialon,
in tones of real anguish.
"Is it generous, holy father, to refer to my
obscure birth ? Has not the ragged iron already
entered my soul? Need I another thrust t6
keep me umble? Would you strike the sub-
missivedog that already crouches at your feet '
"Hold, my dear Henri! you are' too hard
upon your old friend. If I probe your woundi
it is that I may heal it soundly and well 'ar
e it from me to reproach you because your
arentage is obscure. The same inscrutable
obscurity also hangs over the parentage of
Helen ; and. it were folly to affirm that she is
ess lovely or noble for that."
"I hear footsteps without," said Henri,1stairt-
ng to his feet' "It sounds like the tread 'df
"m   me. What can it mean ?"
"You may well ask !" exclaimed Fa'het a
ion, "for I see the bristling of bayonets through
he windows ! Alas ! my heart tells ie but too
mainly what it portends."
There was a loud rap like a blow from' the
ilt of a sword.
" Conceal yourself, my dear boy," whispered
he holy father.
" Never," said Henri,  firmly. "I will .'ee
he danger boldly, whatever it may be. Heari
)elcroix will never fly while 'hef has' the prou-4'
consciousness that he has, done nothing wadt
f punishment."
Father Davion opened the door, and theobhig
fTesage darkened the threshold.
"Henri Deleroix,[ arit you," he'saidin an
i-ogant tone.
" By whose authority 1" asked Hlenri, cli
y    a   ty f his excellency, the
"I was orere to arrest you, and nott    -


THE WHITE ROVER.

questions, Monsieur Henri. Men, close,
uard.the door, andsee that he does not es- 1l
ape through the windows."                 d
' dyou bring the whole of the governor's r
.aammy r" askedHenri,,sarcastically.       d
Lesage bit his lips and made no reply.
CaptainXesago, what does all this portend ? e
Answer me?" said Father Davion, in a tone of
   dmand.                            if
You can ask his excellency," returned Le- a
g  if you have any interest in this unfortu- y
young man. I can only assure that he will p
b1p.ditfairly with., It is my duty to conduct 
l$im to p$son. Sergeant Dumont, march, in a y
111P of men. Corporal Willet, bring the irons."
- The captain stepped aside, and the sergeant b
with file of men, with shouldered arms, entered
and surrounded Henri. The corporal followed t
Jandeuffs.
iold out your hands for the ornaments, mon- t
asri said.the corporal.d
Wth a smile of derision Henri stretched forth f
14  ads, and the irons were placed upon them. t
,,]e was then pushed into the open air in order
tS4the cautions captain might arrange his men
oreing order.       '
- Close up, men. Sergeant Dumont, prick
ian with your sword that laughed in the
ranks ! Attention the. whole !, eyes front ! to t
tig right about'face ! mark time ! march 1" and
Sivalryof Louisiana moved away toward,
the prison.
,'11We ought to have had music, Sergeant Du-
o   sothatwe could have taken him along to
tine , f the Rogue's, March,' "remarked
the captain, facetiously.1
Wroprison was a small stone building near
the governor's residence, and thither Henri was,
crter    He soon had the sorrowful privilege
of hearing the locks of a prison turn upon-him
fostherfst time in his life.
.&amp;jpst appreciation,9f his position, which his
tA udgmont -enabled, him to make, nearly
him:with grief and anxiety.
NKt that he feared any punishment for sup-
r 94I psg, butthe ideasof dishonor and last-
Ipg ignoiny quite unneryed himt for the mo-
uat;   ri  as possible that eyen Leelen might
be taught to credit the tales which, would be
cgdto'him;. ,4
A%   to glqoupy thoughtswe will
ur again to thehse of the governor for
w0 ~ c  ey     dignify it with;the title of

Immediately after the prison doors had been
ocked upon Henri, Captain Lesage hastened to
he presence of De Bienville, who had not yet
etired, but was pacing his room with a mind
istracted by the most intense anxiety.
" Well, captain, what news 1"'he asked, earn-
stly, when Lesage appeared.
" May it please your excellency, our worst-
ears are confirmed," he said, with a low bow,
nd a lugubrious voice. " Upon searching the
oung man, I found upon his person sundry
ieces of birch bark, which seem to be covered
with diagrams, one of which I will lay before
rou and attempt to explain."
Lesage proceeded to unroll a piece of birch
bark about the size of a letter sheet.
" This serpentine mark through the centre of
he bark, represents, doubtless,- the Mississippi
winding its way along the great valley, and
hese two smaller ones the Tombigbee and Per-
dido. These round characters indicate the dif-
ferent French settlements. This is Natchitoches ;
his is New Orleans; this is Dauphine'Island,
and this is Pensacola."
" Sacre Dieu I" exclaimed the governor, lifting
his hands in astonishment.
" Observe, your excellen y, that these large
marks represent the Natchez; this the Choc-
taws ; this the Chickasaws ; this the Mobilians,
and this the Yazoos."
" The saints defend us I" ejaculated the gov-
ernor.
"These arrows, your excellency," continued
Lesage, with consummate ;art, "indicate the
number Of villages in each nation ; while these
belts of wampum represent the number of chiefs.
Near each village you perceive a hatchet and a
scalping-knife,; showing probably that a state of
warfare exists, and is to be carried forward with
vigor,"    -
" Are you morally certain that this is the work
of that unhappy young man ?" said De Bien-
ville, with a lowering brow.
"What farther assurance does your excellency
require ?" asked Lesage, with a troubled ex-
pression.
" All that I can possibly have. It never shall
be said that De Bienville, during his adminis-
tration,.acted: hastily or, without ,due evidence
that he was in thepath of duty. What are you
trying to decipher at the bottom of the chart 2i"
"See for yourself," replied Lesage.
The governor took the{birchen chart and rea4
in legible characters the name of  eupri 1

THE WHIT

croix, and just beneath it the name of Onalaska
sometimess styled Red Shoe), the famous Indian
warrior and diplomatist.
De Bienville's hand shook while he held in it
the fatal sign of:Henri's guilt.
" The whole of the foul plot has not yet been
developed," added Lesage, in a tone of well
dissembled grief. " This hard-hearted, incon-
siderate. and remorseless youth has also tam-
ppred with the Banbara negroes, and they are
ripe for revolt."
The governor, upon hearing this astonishing
intelligence, was for a moment speechless with
surprise.
".I have heard," he said, at length, endeavor-
ing to speak with calmness, "vague rumors of
an insurrection among the Banbaras, but I have
hitherto regarded them but lightly, knowing
that the negroes are, as a general thing, a docile
and peaceably disposed race of men, suffering
wrong often, but very seldom resisting oppres-
sion.
"Bat now the aspect of things is indeed seri-
ous, for there are as many negroes as whites
in Louisiana at the present moment. Before we
proceed farther, tell me how you gained this
most astonishing piece of news ?"
"From my own faithful knave, your excel-
lency."
"Call him in, Lesage."
In a short time the captain's colored servant
made his appearance.
"Curlie, cover up your teeth with those thick
lips, and answer any questions his excellency
may ask, and see that you keep nothing back,"
said the captain.
"Yes, massa," replied Curlie, displaying a
large quantity of ivory.
Curlie," said the governor, sternly, "can you
tell the truth ?"
I used to eould, massa," replied Curlie.
Do you know Henri Deleroix ?"
As I know my farder, massa gubernor."
"Has he ever tampered with you ?"
" He tried to, but he couldn't 'kase Ise so wir-
tuous-.
'The governor could not repress a smile.
"Did he ever ask you to join the Indians in
waging a war of extermination against the
French?"
" Them's the werry words he said to me,
Gubernor Bienville. He told me we could soon
make the French run away; that is, what few of

E. ROVER.
'em wasn't scalped, and then we could make*
nice--what do you call 'em-republic Qf Ot
own, and some of e Banbaras would be gube.
nors in course of time. Butit:wan's my nature
to commit such anact of moral turpentineI"
"Tupitude, you mean," said Lesage.
"Do you know whether he ever talked in a
similar manner to other colored persons," con-
tinued the governor.
" le did. There's quite a 'telligent dark
that I'm jest been conversing. with,, that he
talked to in the same disrespectable way,"
"You may go, Curlie, and if you see that it
telligent colored gentleman, request him tq come
in," added the governor, with great gravity.
The negro referred to made his appearance
almost immediately, and testified ,much in the
same manner that his predecessor had done.
"Captain Lesage," said de Bienville, whey
they were alone, "I am satisfied .that this-is a
most serious affair, and that all the French set-
tlements are in danger of complete destruction.
Your important services shall not be forgotten.
You may regard your promotion as something
fixed upon and certain. Any favors I can rea-
sonably grant, you may ask without fear of re-
buke. The events of the last few days have
secured you a warm friend in the person of the
governor of Louisiana-an office which the uni-
ted voices of the colonists affirm he has never
yet disgraced."
" Governor de Bienville, I thank you most
sincerely for your good opinion. Permit moe to
suggest one thing more before I leave you."
" Speak freely, captain."
" You are aware that the worthy Father De-
vion is exceeding fond of this misguided youth,
and will by no means be disposed to admit -his
guilt. He will undoubtedly seek an interview
with your .excellency as soon as the morning
dawns. Now in order to spare yourself the pain
of beholding his grief, would it not he right and
proper and excusable, to plead some prior en-
gagement, or something of that kind ? Put
him off by some means, in order' to spare him
the anguish of a direct refusal of his wishe~
which would well nigh break his heart. A course
like this, it seems to me, would be a mercy to
him, and to yourself also."
"I will take your well meant advice into con-
sideration. Send Dumont to me to-morrow."
" Yes, your excellency."
" And, stay ; do not forget to find two or


THE WHITE OVE1.

4lirie/faithfui messengers, that I.may Aend to there
I    f.er tf Claude, n the Yazoo River, and to'
^tj   ortoaf St. Dennis, at latchitoches."
sL ttage retired, and the governor was again
alone \sflieted about ae much with real'difficul
ties as Sangho Panzo was with imaginary ones,
*t thb fdihbas island of Barritaria.
ks frLesage, we will suppose that his dreams
Were troubled, and that his sleep was not the
ildf6filionce. With consummate skill he
1iWoven the meshes of villany alout his
youthful rival, and there appeared but little hope
ia    could extricate himself from the dicBul-
(8hihli he was involved.
Thire ias a dangerous appearance of reality,
fsdhe divelopneits which he had pretended to
Nil t6 the governor. The Indians were truly
forsef   their mutual'animosities, and uniting
toff s  igth to crush the French.
' thlfs movement had' been suspected by de

Bienville for a long time, and he now supposed
that he had significant proof that Henri 1)eleroix
was the leader and prime mover of the fatal
alliance.
There had also heen much "discontent among
the Banbara negroes, and Henri was now as
deeply implicated in the embryo insmrection as
in the Indian league ; and it was fearfully appa-
rent that if the whole affaif was not crushed in its
infancy, nothing could save the French fromi
destruction.
It was known that our hero had been much
with the Indians, and had considerable influence
over them; and, this fact, added to the many
which Lesage had produced, afforded, in the
estimation of the governor, but too evident proof
of his guilt, and he regarded him as furnishing
an instance of the blackest ingratitude and de-
pravity on record. He resolved that his punish.-
ment should be speedy and summary.

r                  '
e   T
a
P
p

CHAPTER 'V.
LA GLORIEUSE.

UPON the night of Henri's arrest, a birchen
canoe containing two persons was floating noise-
lessly down the Mississippi, near its western
bank. Both the voyagers were females. The
one who occupied the stern of the frail vessel
was a Natchez woman of about twenty years of
age, uncommonly handsome, and nearly related
to the Great Sun. She was in fact a princess.
Her name was La Glorieuse-The Proud.
As the soft moonlight fell upon the face of La
Gloricuse, it revealed features which would not
have proved uninteresting even to the most
common-place observer. The light of a lofty
spirit beamed from her eyes. Firmness and
gentleness seemed to have met in the expression-
of the mouth, and the general formation of the-
face.
Her hair was very, long and glossy, and hung
loosely, but yet gracefully over her shoulders,
giving her rather a coquettish appearance.
She was dressed evidently with great care ac-
cording to the Indian taste, and yet on the whole
having an air of easy negligence quite agreeable
to the beholder.
La Glorieuse held a light and fancifully carved
paddle, which she Occasionally dipped into- the
wave with a quick and dexterous movement
The; birchen vessel, obedient to the impulse,
glided on with a steady and untiring motion.

The female who sat in the bow of the canoe,
was obviously descended from a different race.
She was a Frenchwoman of about thirty yearsof
age, as nearly as one could judge from her ap-
pearance. Her name was' Leona Mablois; but'
she usually passed as Madame Mablois among
the French,.while the Indians had bestowedupon
her the more romantic appellation of Chatakawa1
which means Soft-Voice,' or the woman that
sings; which was given her on account of the
peculiar sweetness of her voice.
Though the blushing beauty of youth had
faded from the face of Madame Mablois, it I4d
not left it without attractions. A certain degte6
of calm repose had fixed itself upon her featttiea;1
yet they were impressed and somewhat saddened'
by visible lines of care and constant'thougft.
Her features and manners were still pleasing,
and calculated to inspire confidence and friend-
ship. Though her face was somewhat darkened
by exposure to the open air, it had lost little off
its true delicacy, and still retained vestiges of its'
pristine loveliness. Her figure was: good, ,a nd
possessed that embonpoint so highly esteemedby
connoisseurs in beauty as developed in the genes
tier sex. Her dress was in keeping with her
habits, being a graceful blending of the French
and Indian styles.
"Our voyage is nearly accomnlished"n aid

_ -


TUE WHI
Madame Mablois. "I can see the smoke of New
Orlean&amp;"
K what will my white sister do when she gets
gerev' asked La Glorieuse, looking earnestly at
Leona.
"I shall seek an interview with Father Davion,"
replied the Frenchwoman.
a And will my gentle sister tell him all?" con-
ttnued La Glorieuse.
Madame Mablois covered her face with her
hands and sighed.
"My red sister is curious," she said, at length,
with a forced smile.
"It is because her heart has been touched by
the sorrows of the Soft-Voice,' rejoined La Glo-
riense.
"I will keep nothing from you," replied Leona,
after a short interval of silence. " I shall be gov-
erned by circumstances in regard to what I may
reveal to. Father Davion. - If the proper time
seems to have arrived, I shall conceal nothing.
I have the papers with me, and if anythirtg should
befai'me, promise me, my faithful friend, 'that
Xeu will secure and keep them as. a sacred de-
posit, carrying out my plans so far as you know
them.. These papers,,, as you know, intimately
cpaeern the happiness of two persons; yes, I
slight with propriety say three or four.e I feel
that Imust see Henri. I have much to say to
«im. If circumstances have assumed a certain
aspect, :I shall consider myself so far released
fiat my promise as to make disclosures of the
latest importance,; but if on the contrary,
thinga have taken a different'course, my promise
will still be valid, and must be adhered to, how-
ever much I may feel disposed to murmur at the
decrses offate.".,
She Frenchwoman may trust to the friend-
sMpiof La Glorieuse," said the princess. "She
qil1 never desert her friend while the Master of
Life,gives her strength and breath."
.:'ThaRk you; you are well worthy of the royal
bland:which raises you above the common rank,'
repl;idMablois.
" Ah," said'La Glorieuse, with a smile, "royal
bJood is little esteemed by the French people
whewtit circulates in the veins of the Indian."
61WWll, let it pass; you are just as much a
gihtesa as though your blood was white as my
*awrp'Many a princess has ascended a throne o
regaldnagnificence,,and governed a people pro
fssedly Christian, with a heart far less noble thai
yoza" added Madame Mablois.
[ Th&amp; face of La Glorieuse lighted up wit]

"The Soft-Voice flatters her simple red friend,"
she said, with a blush. " But here we are among
your people."
As the Indian maiden spoke, the canoe touched
the Levee at New Orleans-that important thing
known at the present day as the Levee had not
then attained a height and extent worthy of the
name, though the earth had been raised to pre-
vent the river from inundating its banks, and
sweeping away all their efforts at making an in-
habitable place, but we shall occasionally take the
liberty to call that then imperfect embankment by
the name by which it is now known.
Mablois stepped from the tiny vessel ; La Glo-
rieuse followed her, and together they drew it to
a place of security ; this effected, they walked
silently towards the residence of Father Davion.
Passing what is now called the Public Square,
they reached the corner of Conde and Ursuline
streets, where the dwelling of Davion was in
sight.
Both parties paused, for it was evident that
something unusual was going forward. They
saw more than a score of armed men surround
the place silently, and then remain motionless,
waiting farther orders.
" A French officer knocks at the door with his
sword," said La Glorieuse.' " He enters ; and:
now another'officer with several- soldiers follows
him. Let us go a little - nearer. There goes
another man with chains for the wrists."
" Handcuffs, those are," said Mablois, in an
agitated voice.
" Do you hear that voice ?" added La Glori-
euse.
"I hear a voice, certainly," replied Mablois.
"And does.not my pale sister recognize it !*
she asked, earnestly.
" It is Lesage !" almost shrieked Mablois.
" Some great evil menaces Henri. Let me fly to,
his assistance !"
"Hush !" said La Glorieuse, throwing her arms
about Mablois, and forcibly detaining her. " You
can do nothing. Woman cannot'save her friends
I by the strength of her hands, but by cunning
plans. Let us watch'- these movements, white
sister, and we shall know what to do."
"Iight, my friend, right. The feeble strength'
of woman cannot avail against armed men.
f What do you see now ?"
" I see a tall' young man led forth from the
n cabin, and-he has those chains I spoke of upon,
his hands. It is Henri. The white warriors take
h their places in order; and the war chief with the

THE WHITE ROVER.

long knife commands them to march. They
move away. We will follow them."
" They are going towards the prison," added
Mablois.
Leona and La Glorieuse quickened their pace
and kept near the parties until they reached the
prison. They saw Henri enter, ard the bolts
drawn upon him, and the soldiers return to the
barracks, leaving a sentinel posted near the door
for greater security.
Lesage went to the governor's mansion, and
his steps were still silently followed by Madame
Mablois and her friend.
"Now is the time," said La Glorieuse, " to find
out what the danger is that threatens Henri ;"
and taking the arm of her less composed com-
panion, she drew her to the reai of the governor's
house.
"You see a light there, Soft-Voice ?"
"I do."-
" The governor is in that room, and the wily
serpent is with him. Here is a tree near the
high fence, and another near the window. First
we will climb into this, and let ourselves down
into the yard by the branches ; then we will climb
softly into that, and listen to the words of the
great father and chef menteur (lying chief)."
This proposal was immediately put into exe-
cution-for the indulgent reader will bear in mind
that the females of that day could accomplish any
feat requiring dexterity and strength, with about
the same facility as the other sex.
The tree was low, and its ascent easy. La
Glorieuse, more practised in the art of forest life,
and more agile than her companion, was the first
to let herself down into the yard (which would
doubtless be called a court at the present time).
She assisted Mablois to alight safely upon the
ground. Their next care was to attain a suitable
position among the branches of the willow grow-
ing by the window. This they succeeded in do-
ing with much more silence and despatch than
might have been anticipated. The tree proved
post favorable to their purpose, for with their
ears placed close to the window, they were ena-
bled to hear the whole of the conversation be-
tween De Bienville and Lesage, as we have given
it in another place.
Having made themselves acquainted with the
whole plan of the captain's villany, they descend-
ed from the place of their concealment, and after
considerable exertion scaled the high fence and
left the vicinity.
"Do you not see, sister, that cunning is better
than strength ?" asked La Glorieuse.

"Perhaps what we have done would not be
called pardonable by many people," replied
Mablois.
"It is a mean act to listen to the talk of others
merely to gratify curiosity; but to expose a lying
chief and save a brave friend, it is right,' an-
swered the princess.
" Yes, I feel that it must be so. In this case
the end to be obtained must justify the means we
have been forced to employ to bring about' its
consummation. Now tell me frankly, La Glorii
euse, do you think we can do anything to save
Henri from death? for, unless the truth can" be
proved beyond a doubt, I am well assured that
De Bienville will not spare him; although it is
evident that he feels a strong interest in the
'unhappy youth,' as he is pleased to call him."
Mablois spoke in a voice that bore witness-to
the intense anxiety which she felt for Henri.
" Chef menteur (he was already known among
the Natchez as the lying chief) is a bad man.
His plans are deep and deadly ; for you know it.
is true that there has been a great war-couneit
among the war-chiefs of the different, nations..
and it has been resolved to kill all the French..
It is true, also, that many of the negroes are-
willing to fight against their masters, and some
of them have already run away and found home'
among us.
" Now all this is against the brave young pal
face. The great father is already of the opinior
that all this trouble has originated with him; for
you see that chef menteur has proved it by th
speakingy bark, and the two negroes, besides man
other things which he has made use of to blin
the eyes of the great father, so that he cann
see clearly."
"Yes, I understand, La Glorieuse."
. " Wh'n the great chief of the French resolve
to do a thing, and thinks it is right, he loses ni
time by unnecessary delay. If a man is to die,
he does not put it off; he says in a terrible voice,
' Lead him out and put him to death.' NobQdy
has courage to say, 'you had better wait little.
for the great chief would be very angry, and
lightning would flash from his eyes."
"I know it! I know it !" exclaimed Mablos.
"lHe acts with terrible decision when he believes
justice requires the punishment of an offender:
" You see, then, that if we were to. go to him
and say, ' Great father, chef menteur has lied to
you,' he would frown upon us, and say, ' Iknow
my duty. I do not ask Ltounsel 9f women.
Henri dies on the morro~,foghe has planned

27

TE ROVER.

41


TUB 4HITE IOVER.

d 4ent uctionof innocent' babes, helpless ivo-
pn@   d gray ; eaded old men.'"
" What then shall we do ?" cried Mablois,
gktydst ressed, "Cannot Father Davion save
"Father Dsvien will not be admitted to the
council chamber of the governor, for chef menteur'
;1aq rred the doors against him."
"hWell, Girieuse?"
We m   get the young pale face out of the
8 Ofd; hUOse?)
e s, Assist him to escape from prison,you meai?"
" Yes."
"But that would confirm his guilt in the esti-
matioh-of the governor, for it is the guilty who
se ksafety in flight'."
Bt it will save his life ; for in a ~few weeks
e'dust will'getout of the governor's eyes, and
he whfee clearly ; but nd he is blind, and be-
IfhiSrecovers his sight the young Frenchman
wilIlbe Vut to death, and then what can make
.  T p   Age  "

"Upon reflectionmy better judgment tells in
that you are.right. Do yot not think that Helen
Lerowe might aid us in effecting his escape from
prison ?"
La Glorieuse shook her head thoughtfully.
" The white maiden can do' but little at pres-
ent, because she will be closely watched by chef
menteur," said the princess.  "Pierre Moran
would do better."
" What can he do, La Glorieuse ?"
" Climb up to the prison window and remove
the iron bars, so that the young man may
escape.
"Let us seek him at once !" cried Mablois.
" We shall be likely to hear of him at Monsieur
Ridelle's, for it is said he is smitten with the fair
face of Adelaide."
Arrived at Ridelle's, their astonishment can
hardly be imagined when they were informed
that a warrant had been issued for Pierre Mo-
ran's arrest, and that to avoid imprisonment he
had fled to the woods.

A FAINT glow in the east heralded the com-
ing day. Onalaska, chief of the Chickasaws,
stood silently by the bay of St. Louis. Revolv-
ing in his mind his own mighty plans, he had
wandered away ffrpm his warriors through the
pathless forest, nor stayed his footsteps until he
reached the margin of Lake Borgne, at the fair
bay bearing the name of the great king.
With folded arms and abstracted air, he gazed.
steadfastly upon the beautiful sheet of water now
dimly lighted by the first crimson streaks of day-
light. A shade of care and anxiety rested upon
the chieftain's brow. Savage as he was, he had
doubtless found the task ofagoverning and shap-
ing the actions of a numerous people not an easy
one.
" How calmly the waters are sleeping," he
said, musingly. " The red men rested as quietly
among their native hills, before the pale faces
came among them. But now there is no rest
for the sons of the forest, once the undisturbed
owners of this great country. Where now are
the Indian's lakes and rivers, and hunting
grounds ?"                     -
Oaalaska paused. Painful thoughts agitated
liis;bosom.
"The white man and the red cannot occupy
the same country," he added. " These French
dogs must be swept away, or the 'Indians will

perish. I feel that it must be: so ; something
unseen and solemn seems to whisper it in my
ear."
Again the chieftain was silent. When he re-
sumed, his voice was louder and sterner, and his
brow was contracted into a forbidding frown.
" If my brethren will be governed by me,'if they
will keep the vows made in the sight of ihe Great
Spirit, and written upon the clouds with his
finger, we shall live to see the trees growing
upon the ruins of the French settlement, and
the deer feeding upon the grass where cotton is
flourishing."
A slight rustling among the dry leaves caused
the warrior to lay his lhanmd upon his knife. A
moment he stood in the fixed attitude of atten-
tion, with his keen -eyes directed towatrds the
surrounding trees. No object was visible, and
the sound did not immediately recur.
" It was the footstep of the timid hare or the
sportive squirrel," said Onalaska to himself, and
relapsed agfiin into a state of reverie.
"The Africans despise their masters,{,ha
added. " The red man has wisely taught them
to hate servitude, and they are impatient forithe
hour of emancipation. Already are they form-
ing plans for the establishment of' a republic !
Fools ! will the Indians'destroy the French, for
the sake of giving the country-to spiritless cow

CHAPTER VI.
RED-SHOE-THE PANTHER.

yr, $ '.           .              '
4  4                          r    I
§          f 'S       Z
ti!,i               -


s0

THE WHITE ROVER.

ards, who seem fitted by nature for no other the neighboring red nations, and the negroes
place than that tiey noW occupy. The blood of also, to deadly hostility against his countrymen.
the red man ltd the black was never intended Upon this grave charge he has been imprisoned,
to mingle apy more than that of the red and the and will be put to death before forty-eight hours,
white.  Were the Banvaras to recover their unless he be rescued by some cunning hand."
freedom, they could not keep it ; they were born  " Who has charged the friendly ale face with
slaves, and their hearts are not big enough to a crime so heinous ?"
appreciate the blessings of freedom, and to gov-  " Chef Menteur."
ern themselves. But we will not harm them    "The French captain is justly named the
when their masters are no more. We will give 'lying chief!' exclaimed Red-Shoe. "He is a
them a piece of ground, and they shall dwell by viper-a snake creeping in the grass, and I hope
themselves, when they will, no doubt, in their some day, to crush him with my heel."
craven-heartedness, soon sigh for the servitude  " May the Master of Life fulfil your hope,"
they have lift. It were good that the black men said La Glorieuse, earnestly. "Now tell me if
return to t14eir own country, since they are not you cannot devise some plan by which to save
worthy of fi'eedoml; for they cannot hunt, fish, the White Rover ?"
and make ivar like the red men, and are not full " That will be a difficult task," answered the
o' cunninginventions like the whites."    chieftain, thoughtfully. " The French people
Again there was a rustling sound among the are now aware of the intentions of the red men,
leaves, aid a slight crackling among the dry and they will be continually on the alert. How
sticks upon the ground.                    can I approach New Orleans without being dis-
Onalaska was completely aroused. He drew covered and slain ? When I put my life in peril,
his tomahawk hastily from his belt, and as he I endanger our whole enterprise ; for I am (as
did so he saw a human figure emerge from the you know) the prime mover in the contemplated
covert of the trees-and stand beside the lake at warfare of extermination. The young man is
te water's edge, a few yards distant.      accused of a grievous crime (though innocent)-
"Red-Shoe I" said a gentle voice.        for a renegade -is hateful to all people and races,
"Is it thou, La Glorieuse ?" exclaimed Ona- and justly deserves to die. He is a miscreant
laska,,with a start of surprise.            who betrays his own blood ; and every honest
" It is the daughter o  e Natchez," replied heart revolts against the seller, of his kindred.
the princess,,calmly.                   -   While a person is supposed to be guilty of a
"And why is the proud descendant of the great wickedness, it is the same, while that belief
'Suns' here"at this hour, and alone ?" asked prevails, as though he were really, guilty ; it is
the chieftain, anxiously.                   thus with our French friend, and when his sup-
"Listen, great warrior, and I will tell you posed guiltiness becomes known among his peo-
why you see me here, near the encampment of plc, they will drag him from the stone house,
the Chickasaw braves."-                     and he will die amid mad revilings and execra-
The stately chieftain bowed, and a smile of tions ; and if his imagined crime does not become
pleasure lighted momentarily his swarthy fea- generally known, there is still no hope, for he
tares,                                      will die by the order of the great French chief."
"Mysears are open, daughter of the ' Suns.' "  " Onalaska, you have a fearless heart," said
"The young Frenchman who is known among the princess. " Your hand is strong, -your voice
us as the' 'White Rover,' is in danger," said the is terrible in battle, your feet swift to pursue an
princess.                                   enemy, and your brain is full of cunning devices.
"And is that what brings you hither, fair You can, by some means, save the life of this
princes'"asked Red-Shoe, with a smile of pe- young Frenchman. You are'celebrated for the
culiar meaning, which did not pleae La Glo- greatness of your exploits ; perform yet another
rieuse.                                     deed that shall add fresh laurels to your name."
"The White Rover is not my lover, chief of  "But why, beautiful princess," returned the
th}Chickasaws," she answered, somewhat impa- chief, with a soft voice and a pleasant smile,
tlendy,uand with rauch dignity.             "do you not apply to your own people, the
,o. pn, daughter of the ' Suns," said Ona- Natchez? Are they not also great warriors' and
laskadnaa more kindly voice.          '"are not their hearts big'!   Where is Strong-
"The young Srerichman is accused of inciting Serpent, the Great Sun'!"

THE( WHIT
"He knows nothing of the dangeraf Henri
Delcroix. The distance to Walnut Village is
considerable, and before anything could be done
by the Great Sun, the friend of the Indiaamight
be no 'more. Whatever is done for his rescue
must be quickly done, for the justice of the great
French chief does not linger.".
"You speak well, La Glorieuse. It is far to
the Walnut Village, and you have done wisely
in seeking me. The White-Rover has the blood,
of a hated race in his veins, but'it has become of
a red color by mingling freely; among us. I
would not have him slain for a crime.of which
he is not guilty. He-s my friend ; and it were,
shame that the friend of Onalaska should die
without a single effort having been made to save'
him."
- " Your brave words make the heart of the
Natchez maiden glad," replied La Glorieuse, joy-
fully. " She knew that Red-Shoe would not for-
sake the man he called his friend."
"It shall never be said of Onalaska that he
ran from an enemy,' or 'forsook his friend," re-
plied the warrior, p oudly. " In this the proud
princess has-not mistaken me ; but she knows
not how truly the heart of the warrior loves her.
She turns a deaf ear to his words ; she will not
understand the language of his eyes and actions;
yet the lodge fire of Onalaska will never burn
brightly and cheerfully until she kindles it and
sits beside it. It is well that the fair descendant
of the 'Suns' is called 'The Proud."'
The chieftain ceased, and folded his arms
proudly, yet sorrowfully, upon his, broad chest.
" There is a time for all things, great chieftain,"
observed the princess, with gentle dignity. " The
maiden Sun did not come hither in the hour of
darkness to listen to the eloquent love tales of a
brave warrior. She came to appeal to his mag-
nanimity and courage in order to save a friend
from death, though that friend be of another
race. It were not comely in a princess of the
blood to make a jo rrney to another nation to
be wooed."-
" The words of La Glorieuse are just, though
they make the spirit of dnalaska sad," -returned
the warrior, respectfully. " Love is a sentiment
so strong in the hearts of brave men, that some-
times it is hard to conceal it. With that power-
ful sentiment the Ohickasaw  chief has long
struggled in vain. He will still struggle and be
aman"
" The resolution is worthy oftyour great name
and deeds of renown," said the princess, mildly.

'1

E ROVER.                               31
"If the peerless Sun woulcease to have me
love her, let her speak," less 'generously of my
deeds ; for praise is sweet i 4 $ hen it drops
from her sweet lips," returne'  aska , in a
voice soft as woman's when she  a pleasse.
" Then must the subject be changed," replied
La Glorieuse, with a pleasant smile. " Will the'
chieftain tell the daughter of the Natchez what
he proposes to do for the White Rover ?"
" When the night has come, and darkness has
fallen upon the face of the earth, Onalaska will
seek the village of the French. His step shall
be soft as the falling snow. He will steal along
like the crawling serpent. He will scale the
prison fence, remove the bars of a window, and
the White Rover shall be tree."
"The war-chief will need the aid of a white
man," said La Glorieuse. "There is one called
Pierre Moran, who might be useful."
"He is a brave man, though a Frenchman,"
replied Onalaska. " He was but lately rescued
from the warriors of Onalaska by the hand-of
the White Rover. His heart is large towards
him, Red-Shoe will' consider upon what La
Glorieuse has said."'
" The errand of the Natchez girl' is done," re-
plied the princess. '" Her heart is full of grati-
tude. She will hasten back to speak comforting
words to the woman of the soft voice."
With a smile and a graceful wave of the hand,
she turned and walked quickly away. Onalaska
gazed after her until her figure was hidden by
the trees. The first rays of the rising sun' fell
along the quiet lake.. With a sigh Onalaska
sought the encampment of his warriors.
The chieftain had gone but a short distance,
when, emerging from the shade of some tall
sycamores, he perceived a white man with a
rifle on his shoulder, moving rapidly towards
Lake Pontchartrain.
"Pierre Moran !" shouted Red-Shoe, in aloud
voice.
The hunter stopped and looked about him,
Suddenly his eyes rested on the majestic figure
of Onalaska. He cocked his rifle, and bringing
it to his shoulder, laid his face upon the breech
and glanced 'along the deadly barrel.
" Hold !" cried Red-Shoe ;-"I have news from
the White Rover."
The breech of Pierre Moran's rifle fell to the
ground when the sound of the White Rover's
name reached his ears.
" We did not part on the best of terms, Ona'
laska, -but if you have aught to say concerning


TREW WHITE ROVER.
Henrielroix, Zamrea4 to hear you," replied when I saw you hurrying away. Meet me here.
or~ai: to-morrow night, and we will enter the Freich
TIyou$      ehman is shut up in the village together."
-    :tghouse s the chief.                "Most willingly;i you may rely upon me. I,
"I kad     answered Moran.              owe the White Rover a debt of gratitude, as:
'The g  t chief of -the French will put him  you know, and I will repay it at the hazard of
to dctf,"added Odalaska.               my life."'
"is thatalf you wished to say to me ?" re-  ." Take this belt of wampum," replied Red-
turned Pierre.                            Shoe; "wear it about your waist. If you fall in
"Would you not save him if you could ?" with-any of may people, it will'save you' from
said -RedShoe.                            their vengeance."
4Atthe risk of my life," rejoined Pierre.  Moran took the belt. He was in, the -act of
"Prisons, I have heard, have been broken fastening it upon his person in the manner indi-
and the condemned set at liberty," added the cated, when the sharp crack of a rifle resounded
chieftain.                                through the woods, and a bullet whistled through:
" That's very true,"gesumed Pierre, musingly. his long beard within an inch of his' chin, and
f1ed-Shoe watched the countenance of the passing near the head of Red-Shoe, lodged in
hunter in silence.                        the trunk of a cottonwood. A tuft of hair sev-
-  " What do you propose to do ?" asked Moran, ered by the leaden messenger fell upon the
{*ile T new gleam of light seemed to flash into hunter's bosom.-
Eis nind.                                   Simultaneously Pierre and Onalaska plunged
4'1avh the White Rover from death," replied into the forest and ran swiftly towards the point
RedShoe. "'I have called him friend in hours whence came the' harmless shot. They saw a
ofaifbty and peace, and now I will prove my slender column of smoke curling up through the.
friendship in hours of adversity and danger. He trees, and then the figure of a man running with
is idworthy the sacred name of friend who flies much speed.
' t the approach of misfortune."             Pierre Moran raised his, rifle and fired. The.
What do I hear !" exclaimed Moran. " Are distance was long, but the'^shot evidently took"
these indeed the words of an Indian chief ? effect. - The runner faltered in his flight, swayed
Wheices come these lofty sentiments ? who to one side like one drunken, and then flew on
taught you a code of honor so noble-so honor- again with arrow-like swiftness towards New,
able-both to heart and-head ?"            Orleans.
"Iwas educatedlin , the great school of Na-  " He is wounded in the shoulder," said Ona-
tore:; 1"have received instruction from every- laska, " but not mortally. It is useless to pursue
thing you can see about. you; from trees and him farther, for he is swift of foot."
flowers from hills, mountains and valleys; from  "Do you know him?",asked the hunter.
1hies: rivers and plaits !" replied Onalaska,-  "I know him well. He is called Ette-Actal,
proudly.                                  the Natchez renegade."
SIt is well spoken, savage chieftain., Yottr  " And is doubtless in the employ of Lesage,"
words might well put many a Frenchman to the. added;Moran.
fin ?         .A fit companion for clef menteur," replied
" Frenchman !" exclaimed Onalaska, with an Red-Shoe.
empression-of ineffhble.contempt. "Talk not'of  " I now remember having seen Lesage in close
Frenchnien; to me ; they are overrunning' my conference with an Indian ; he was thus engaged,
ep  adc destroyig my people.". - .  ' ;  the last time I saw him fat New Orleans. He
'The ;chief:folded his arms upon his breast, hasemployed this renegade to, rid him of one
and his chest heavediith unutterable emotions. too deeply in his confidence. The fact is, Cap-
iWerior,"said Pierre Moran, after 'a short tain Lesage mistook his man. From certain.
interval of silence, "are ydu wilIin to forget things which;he had heard, he formed theopin-
:. # '! hatred of the Frenh for a night and assist ion that I was a sort of brigand and common
metodese Ie Henri Deleroix: from the meshes assassin, ready to sell my services to the highest.
of villany that have been so artfully, woven bidder without remorse. But he has discovered
arouuddhin - - his mistake, and now knows .that the tales
"TI anar*und for that eason I spoke to you which he heard in relation to me were false as

4

THE WHITE ROVER.

his own base heart, and seeks my destruction in
order that I may not betray his plans. It is
not safe to listen to every idle rumor, nor to
write a man down a villain because his face is
not a prepossessing one. That shot was aimed
at me," said Moran.
" And if he does not eventually succeed in
killing you, it will be because you bear a charmed
life," returned Red-Shoe.
" I have often heard the name of the Natchez
renegade, but never met him in my wanderings;
but if chance should ever throw him in my way,
he will not live to say he has seen Pierre Moran
again-the hunter of the Mississippi Valley."
" If there is anything on earth that my soul
turns from with loathing, it is a renegade," said
Red-Shoe.
"And a coward, you might have added," said
Pierre.
" It is well thought of, brave Frenchman. A
renegade and a coward may be coupled together,
and not be unequally yoked."
While Red-Shoe was speaking, an object met
the eye of Pierre Moran well calculated to try
the courage of both. The hunter's practised ear
had heard a slight sound among the branches of
the trees. Looking up with the-quickness of a vet-
eran of the woods, he saw a huge and wellknown
animal crouched upon the limb of-a lofty oak,
not a dozen yards from the chief, who was a
little in advance.    -
"Look !" said the hunter, in a suppressed
voice; without withdrawing his fixed gaze from
the terrible monster. The warrior raised his eyes
And saw death staring 'him in the face ; for it
was the animal most dreaded   the red men,
and called almost universally by the singular
name of the'" Indian Devil."
The bravest of the brave, if he discovered the
track of the paonther when' hunting, turned back
with a shudder. He feared to encounter an
animal so powerful, and endowed with a cunning
almost human. lie had rather meet some war
party of his enemies at fearful odds, for with,
them he could fight with-some hope of success;
but who could contend with a foe that could not
*The another hAs thus been styled by the Indiaos.

'33

be seen until his resistless paws were rending
him in pieces, or until he looked down from
some stately tree in the act of springing i No ;
the Indian did not choose to make war upon the
sagacious and all-conquering panther.
Onalaska met the gaze of the monster with
Roman firmness. The fore paws of the animal
were thrust out along a large limb, and the
hinder legs were drawn up under him. The hair
upon the back seemed to stand erect, and there
was an undulating, snaky motion of the long
tail. The eyes sent forth malignant fires-
flashed and burned like glowing coals. The
mouth was slightly open, displaying rows of
white, sharp teeth, and the tongue lying within
them like the sting of some monster serpent.
His hot breath seemed to have infected the air
and made it rank with the odor of death. The
long bristling hair about the huge jaw i-worked
and trembled with the quivering motion of the
nether lip-an indication of hostility too deadly
not to be well known to the observant eye of the
hunter.
The hand of Red-Shoe was, upon his knife.
He had laid it there at the moment of looking
upward ; for he had left his rifle at the encamp-
ment-a neglect which now promised to prove
fatal to the chief. The panther was evidently
about to leap, and had chosen the nearest vie.
tim; this the proud Indian knewi but governing,
with the strength of a diseiplined and mighty
will, the natural shrinkings of human nature, he
appeared calm and self-reliant.
The panther drew himself back. upon his
haunches, with his fore feet still placed cat-like
upon the trunk of the limb, while the motions
of the tail-grew quicker and more deeided,a and
the eyes literally appeared to dart rays of4flame.
- The nerves of the hunter were still. ,There
was no'tremor of the ha d or heart when he
suddenly raised his rifle; no film of teo  idims
med his eyes as he glanced along the barrel;.and
brought the unerring sights to bear -upon' the
scourge of the forest.
Pierre Moran fired ; the panther leaped and
fell quivering at the chieftain's - feet.: ,A ,few
throes of expiring agony convulsed:its frilne,
and the beatingsof its heart were hushedforever,

,I


r4

CIIAPTEII VII.
THE RENEGADE.

"vrTEnA    Ar-the renegade--was one of the-
tnosticnuiing of his race, without the redeeming
qualities of truth and=nobleness of soul, traits of
cliaraeter often fund amongthe Natchez.
4 Compelled to fly from his own people on ac'
" otuitof: his duplicity -and' wickedness, he had
found;_a;temporary home among the Frerich;
often acting as a spy,:and sometimes as a guide,
though not ver~y highly esteemed by his employ-
er Who' feareIl to trust-him' out of their sight
whew there was; ariy probability that another
aty mightfeel disposed, to' 'buy hin' over to
thels interest by the offer :of a.more liberal
rewaid.   -                  -    -s
T6scheming aid plottingman like Lesage,
hewas indeed valuable acquisitions notwith
standinghis:well 'known :treachery, for it was
thesent ry qualities that he 'wished to.call into
action in order to carry forward his plans.
Mdkiegglhe renegade h few presentsroccasion-
a l, And -liberal promises, he soon won him over
mhis service,ands:acquired considerable influx
+n e 'iupan hie -mind,.'Lesage,.after learning
that Pierre Moran was not the man he had been
represented, was filled with apprehension. He
bad good reason to fear that his dark plottings,
for the destruction of Henry Delcroix, might
transpie and come to the ears of the governor,
wich'tught result in the most serious conse-

quences to himself. In order to prevent an ex-
posure so important, and perhaps ,fatal, he de-
termitned to involve Pierre Moran in the.same
destruction which he had so ingeniously prepared
for Henri.' Being now on intimate, terms with
his excellency, on account of the ;valuable ser-
vice he had, apparently, rendered under;circum-
stances of peculiar emergency, it needed but ,a
word to procure.the arrest of; Moran; but the
latter; as we have seen, fled to rthe woods in time
to avoid the catastrophe.'
Thus baffled; the captain resolved upon anoth-
er plan of operation. ,He lost no tithe in-finding
Ette-Actal, who. for a trifling sum,. agreed.to
rid hims of-one he had;so mugch r ontoo dread.
Stimulated by the hope of reward, and urged on
by the natural 'cruelty of his disposition,,the
renegade had 'entered with alacrity upon the
task assigned- him, An opportunity offered
itself sooner than he expected; but he had missed
his aarky and received in return a painfutlthugh
not dangerous wound in the shoulder. Recov-
ering from the momentary shock, he ranforward
with great swiftness, and abated not his speed
until he reached the border'of the French settle-
ment. Feeling comparatively safe from pursuit,
he proceeded to bind up his wound as well as
the circumstancesof the case would admit.
Having completed this necessary task, he sa

I

I

THE WHII

down upon a mossy knoll, smarting with pain
and faint with loss of blood. The renegade,
like many of his race, was extravagantly fond
of fire-water, and while cogitating a plan to
gratify his taste for the dangerous beverage, the
pain of his wound gradually ceased, and over-
come with fatigue, he sank into a profound slum-
ber. From this happy state of'unconsciousness
he was aroused by a gentle touch upon his
shoulder.
Upon opening his heavy eyes, with a start of
surprise, he beheld Lesage standing beside him
with an anxious expression upon his face.
"What news ?" he asked, hurriedly.
The renegade looked vacantly into his face
without reply.
" Mon Dieu! what ails the man !" he exclaimed,
impatiently. " Can 'you' tell 'me anything of
Pierre Moran ?" he added, quickly.
"White hunter has gone long journey," re-
plied the Indian, gravely.
"Where is he gone ? Why did you let him
escape ?" asked Lesage.
"Gone towards the south-way- very long-
never come back."
" What.!" exclaimed the 'lying chief,' his face
lighting up with a sudden gleam of intelligence
and triumph.
" The land of souls is far off," added the rene-
gade. "When the red man goes-there he travels
toward the south, through great forests and over
high mountains, until he reaches the' river that
separates the happy hunting grounds from the
country of mortal men ; there he finds a white
stone canoe, and passes over to'the country of]
shadows. The White hunter has gone there, and'
now talks with the shadowy people."
"When was the deed done, and how ?" asked
Lesage, in an eager and excited tone.
" Does thehench chief see this I" said the-
renegade, po  ing to his blanket,'which was
saturated' with'blood.
" I see-.you are wounded,'? answered 'Lesage.
" Yes; I found the hunter in the woods. He
was not alone.' -He was talking wi hiReddShoe,
the great'+ arrior. As -I steod watching him, I-
stepped upon a dry limb and made a noise. He
looked up and saw me. The white hunter: is
very skilful 'with  his rifle, and he fired, before I.
could cock my gun, ant I received a ball inmy
shoulder. 'I instantly fired.e Pierre:Moran fell,
and Ilifed"
,  But are 'yoit sure 'you-inflicted ai mortals
wounded ' asked Lesage.s _

. ;,.;
ry
r

'E ROVER.                               85
" Very sure, for I took aiin at his head. Nei
ther white man nor red, can live when shat
through the head," replied Ette-Aetal.
For a short time the captain was 'silent, le'.
apparently, in the mazes of his own thought.
"Are you badly wounded ?" he asked, looking
steadfastly at the renegade.
" Very sore; have much pain; want str
water," said the renegade.
" I have a bottle of the fire-water in my
et," replied Lesage. " It will do you good."'
The captain paused, and looked toward Lake
Borgne intently.
" I thought I heard a sound," he added, with
well, affected alarm. "Ette-Actal, your-eyes
are quick and strong ; look steadfastly in that
direction."
The renegade turned his eyes towards the
point indicated, and gazed fixedly, for he had
some fears that it might be Pierre Moran him.
self. While he was thus engaged, Lesage emp.
tied into the' bottle he had drawn from his pocket,
the contents of-a small phial. When the rene-
gade turned towards him, again, the captain
placed the bottle of strong-water in his' hand.
" Drink," he said, with a smile.' "It will-make
your heart big with courage;' it Will'quiet your
pain ; it will make you forget all. 'ur sorrows;
it will make you sleep soundly,'ay, ry soundly;
it will cause you to feel all the joys of the happy
hunting grounds, and to dream of the white stone
canoe, with its shining paddles, which floats on
the waters of the river of life. Drink,,red man,
drink."
The renegade placed the bottle beneath his
blanket with a smile of satisfaction.
"You have done me an iitportant service,"
added Lesage. '"Come to- me to-morrow, and
I will give you twenty pounds." - There waa a
smile--though scarcely perceptible-of(peculiar
significance on the lipsof the- captain as he
spoke these words and turned away. In a few
minutes he' had'disappeared 'among the trees,
repeating to himself his :last remark.
«' Yet, come -te"me to-mOrrow, and I will give
you twenty poundiP-
'The renegade drew the bottle of strongwetei'
from beneath-his'blanket, and holding it-up be-
tween hiseyes 'and 'the 'sun, thus apostrophized
it :   '   t    "  '  ' "'
" Great medicine art thou. The red, man is
strong but thoue art stronger. GThou malkess
lions ofilambs. OThou causept the hdarttobe
madly with sjoy. Thoou givest- oeiara th*

_e        c


86.

gogard ard ta4pst the strength from the limbs
tthe brsyestwarrior. A strange thing art thou
O re-waterly
sltte-Atal concluded his speech, he raised
the bottlet4 fi lip5.
"Hold I":said a clear, ringing voice.
The renegade turned his head towards the
speaker, and beheld the majestic figure of La
Glorieuse regarding him with an expression of
t uptterable contempt, not unmingled with pity
Abashed and confounded the renegade averted
his eyes, nor dared to meet-the disdainful glance
of the princess again.
Contemptible traitor !" said La Glorieuse,
what would you give to feel like an honest
ma ,:, But that can never be. Never again can
ydtri&amp; one of your people in the face. You
are cursed forever with ,the name of renegade 1"
EtteActal. lifted not his head, and attempted
no reply. -i.e was not yet so dead to honor and
same as not to feel the force of her keen rebuke.
"You have turned traitorto the Natchez, and
s1ld yourself to Chef Menteur," added the prin-
g    ' In{this case falsehood has met falsehood,
an'treachery hasmet treachery. It is thus that
th:wicked are punished. You have served Chef
Menteur, puId you have deceived him also, and'
be 1s rewarded you with death-just recom-
~  pa for crimes like yours."
x TPatht!" exclaimedathe renegade.
es deati" added the princess, " and it is
jtlhat(bottle;";
o .You always said that .the white man's fire-
water was bad," replied the renegade, relieved
Qf~ssfears.
".It were perhaps no more than just," con-
ulanupLa Glorieuse, in the same lofty, rebuking
le, Yto let you reap the reward of your villany ;
.st the contemplation of such a loathsome object
spogipe toco passion, and I will stoop to
weveyou from the death. to which the lying chief
1 i*doned .you.He ibas repaid you for at-
S eplig thp life;of'the white hunter by poison-
ing the accursed fire-water-which yourwere about
tisllpw.' stood behind yonder tree; I heard
all--and to bafle a greater villain than yourself,
Jgnadeeg to:saveyou    Were you to drink
tbgcpnteput8sof that ottle, yotwould never see
e*ngo d wn iegaininthe distantwest; and
to-morrowmorning when he comes up refreshed
q dbyl? ter,hi beams would fa s upon a dead
fan&amp; 4 4  face  distcrted  with the protracted
deat struggle. Hunters passing
with il o  Af contendet; 'It is:
th  ~  he renegade.'"

s.  Ette-Actal shuddered ; for a traitor is invaria-
bly. afraid of death.
" This fire-water you say is poisoned !" he
I exclaimed.
" Yes, I say it, and speak truly. I saws him
pour in the deadly drug, and noted the expres-
sion of his face. Do you. remember what he
said : 'Ette-Actial, your eyes are strong and
f quick ; look steadfastly towards Lake Borgne.'
While you were doing as you were bidden, he
-drugged the fire-water."
"I thank you, princess," said the renegade,
with some feeling. " And though I am cast out
from among my people, and wander up and
down with the broad brand of infamy upon my
brow, I will not forget this service. If the time
should -ever come when one like me can serve
La Glorieuse, I shall be ready to peril my life
for her sake."
"It is well," replied the princess, in a more
friendly tone. "Even a renegade may have
some feelings in common with others. You
have rendered yourself unworthy to serve me,
but I will forget it and allow you to render me
an important service."
" Speak your will, princess," replied Ette-Ac-
tal, humbly.    .
" Hasten to the Walnut Village,and tell Stung-
Serpent-the Great Sun--to send me twelve of
the bravest warriors without delay. Bid him
mount them upon the fleetest horses, and to send,
two of the best for the use of the princess," said
La Glorieuse.
"But no one would speak to me, orcredit my
words, should I do as you bid me," returned the
renegade, while his red face grew crimson with
shame.
"I understand," resumed the princess,drawing
a ring from her finger. " Take this, and it will'
save you from insult and abuse.  boldly, and
fear nothing. But I had nearly  otten your
wound ; will it prevent you from travelling ?"
" It will not prevent me from travelling to
serve La Glorieuse," replied the renegade.
" Then away upon your journey, and remem-
ber that I have power to'wipe away a portion of
your disgrace. Serve me well in..whatever I
bid you, and Iwill not prove ungenerous.- But'
mark me; attempt no deceit; 'I:*ill not be tri-,
fled with, for I am a princess,,and have power,
to crush you into the dust, *ere I: disposedjto
retaliate upon one who has proved himself Uns
worthy of his origin. Appear they same0e Chef
Menteur as hiherto. If he should-be surprised

I

UE   WHITE, ROVER.

you said."
" AlasI my poor girl, you, comprehend me
but too well, as that changing cheek and those'
trembling limbs confess. My dear boy ' hsi
fallen.under the governor's displeasure, ai4&amp;1
know not for what, and I am here, at this lat
hour, to seek an interview with him. I will
never leave his presence until I know of what
he is accused," said Davion, emphatically.
" I can whisper a single name in your e6,
Father Davion, that will furnish a key to unleCk-
the whole mystery," replied Helen.
" Speak it, my good Helen," added the prie t,
"Lesage I" said Helen, impressively.
For a moment Davion made no reply, bit
stood lost in his own reflections.
" A light breaks in upon my mindj';"hbeIO
at length. " I think I perceive some ftintgih-
merings of the truth. He has paid much defet-
ence to you of late, Helen. I am old, but i i  -
not blind. Though I may not grasp a newire
with the same quickness that a younger -M
might, yet when a key to a train of thokti
and actions has been given me, I   n1ild
them  up with wonderful theility. Tell*D ,s
daughter, has Captain Lesage annoyed yui"
"'I would that I could answer in the negative,"
said Helen.
" I regret that this is so," added Davien.
"And no one regrets it more deepJf thait
myself," rejoined Helen, with a sigh.
"Save your lover," returned the priet.
Helen's eyes sought the floor, nor did =h. e  -
tire to raise therd for sometime.
"Nay, Helen, spare your blushae. Baeii*:DIl
ecroix is worthy your ov   dd D ao n.'
" Thenyou do not repro  is re    id

-     ther Davion had hastened to the residence of de
Bienville. A servant assured him that the gov-
ernor was engaged and could not be seen ; but
the good old man, stimulated by his love for his-
young friend, had urgently persisted in his re-
quest.
"Go back," said Davion, with dignity, "and
tell your master that his old friend-a man with
white hairs-demands audience."
Awed by the dignified and authoritative air
of Father Davion, the attendant obeyed, and
soon returned with the welcome intelligence that
his excellency would grant him a very brief in-
terview in the course of half an- hour. Bidding
him wait the governor's leisure in the ante-room,
the servant withdrew. His heart was a prey to
the most intense anxiety. He paced the apart-
ment' impatiently, indulging in a thousand con-
jectires in relation to the cause of Henri's arrest.
"Father Davion!" said a gentle voice.
. " Helen Lerowe i" exclaimed the priest;while
a momentary gleam-of happiness and hope irra-
diated his v  1le face. " I was thinking -of
you. - Can ' nform me what this strange pro-
ceeding portends'?"
"I do not comprehend you. I know not to
what proceeding you allude," replied Helen,
somewhat confused, for at that moment she re-
called to mind what had passed between herself
and Henri upon the morning of that very day.
"Henri Deleroix has been arrested by the
order of the governor, and is now in prison,"
said i)vion.
.  The face of Helen Lerowe grew pale as mar-
ble. She recoiled a ste+ and grasped a chair
for sup rt.
"$peak adin, good father 1" she exclaimed,
8

THE WHITE -ROVE.
to see you among livinginen-and be assured  " I hear and comprehend, daughter 4 te
he will-do not heed it; still manifest the same Sun," answered the renegade.
willingness to serve him; but find some way to  " Then obey," returned La Glorieuse,  i
convey to me a thorough knowledge of all his dignity, and drawing her mantle closer about
plans. Do you hear and comprehend me, Ette- her queenly figure, passed from the sight of the
Aetal ?"                                  renegade.
CHAPTER VII
AN INTERVIEW.
Il(MEDIATELif after the arrest of Henri, Fa- with emotion. "I do not well understand what

r ;
'  ..   _


THE WHITE ROVER.

THE WHITE ROVER.                 89

a] [repoach you. not, neither do I approve
Wee you differently situated in life, it would
gg   my heart glad to, see my two children-I
hve called you children for many years-united
an madie happy in a mutual love; but as you
both are now situated, I can see nothing before
you but disappointment and sorrow. May God
in mercy avert the impending calamity, and
temper the winds of trouble to the shorn lamb."
"Most fervently and humbly I join in the pe-
tition," added Helen, devoutly.
* Can you tell me who is with the governor ?"
"Captain Lesage," replied Helen.
"Filling his ears with poison," added Davion,
with emphasis. "I must fathom that mat-I
must read his purposes as I would read a book.
There issomething wrong ; it shall be mine to
And it and bring it to the light."
4At bat moment the servant re-appeared with
tbitelligewce that the governor was ready to
i"Helen;' he added, in a low voice, as he passed
fva thegroom, "meet me in the ante-room, after
u*yinterview with de Bienville."
Aiho followedithe servant he saw Lesage de-
part by. private entrance.
Father Davion," said de Bienville, in a mild
tuglfarm voice, "I well know, why you have
sought me. Out of compassion to you, and to
*pat-mygelf an ungenial task, I had thought to
refuse you angsudience ; Jut you have prevailed."
saveyour:;compassion for another'object,"
replied the priest. "I require it not. I have
spige atbat age when Irequire compassion
oggSfg Maker     I shall ask no pity for these
g   w   a of men; when I appeal for mercy for
ywelft shall be to Heaven. I now ask, but
tlatot theworl   de Bienville. I shall soon
egeh nge the cowl for the crown, and the domino
q f   y*Nitgarment."
yyourbo spared to us long, Father Da-
"r plied.-the governor, respectf lly.,
1][e spare me Ao longer than I am use-
S. I cease, tQ benefit my fellow-men
-to love mercy,. to deal justly, and to. walk
humblywith God, then may I cease to exist.
ligg y r excellscy, will you inform me why
Henri DeIeroi       en imprisoned ?"
"If you lesire  ,I assuredly will,,however
munch Micuty may pain me, and afdict yourself.
-enri Deleroix, the yong nqau who has been
Your fBsteingcare from childhood,
* arm   auio-a 4elen, and the abject of
,  NA rlp ,1et ev   m-e, has been cont ieted

of one of the most aggavated of all crimes, the,
blackest of all sins-the .extreme wickedness of
betraying his countrymen to a cruel and re-
morseless enemy, selling helpless women and
children to the hatchet and scalping knife. He
is a traitor-forgetful of the hand that fed him,
of the people who gave him  a home, of the
blood that flows in his veins ; and by all that is
sacred, were he my own son, or my own brother,
he should die before forty-eight hours, were it
the last act of my administration."
"No ! no !" exclaimed Father Davion, trem-
bling with the violence of his emotions. " It
cannot be so ; there must be some mistake. It
is not in human nature to be so base."
"Father Davion," said the governor, in tones
of thrilling solemnity, "there is no mistake ; but
I would that mistake were possible. !I have
proof positive of his guilt. Do not, as you love.
justice, and respect yourself, and me, and the,
authority vested in me, attempt: to move me to
compassion, or to shake my resolution. I tell
you there is no alternative; he must die-and
he stalll.,
While de Bienville spoke, his eyes flashed
fire, his nostrils seemed to dilate like those of
the war-horse when he smells the battle afar off,
and feels that he must rush into the thickestof
the fight ; his chest-rose and fell with the vio-
lence - of his emotions, and his fingers worked
convulsively upon the pen which he held in his
right hand.
" With this,,my pen," he added, in a voice of
deep energy "I will sign the death warrant of
Henri DeleroixI"       -
Father Davion was awed by the solemn and
energetic manner of de Bienville.
" Be.calm," he said, after a pause, "and let,
me hear what proof you have , of Henri's guilt."
The governor then entered in  detailed ac-
count of the whole conspiracy,    derstood
it. The testimony of Captain Lesage was ad-
duced, bolstered up by the testimony of the ne-
groes ; and all the evidence that tended to crim-
mate Henri was skilfully summed up..
When he had:finished, he looked sorrowfully
at Father Davion. The latter was confounded ;
for the chain of evidence was indeed very per-
fect, and no links appeared wanting.
" Can you now say, good father, that Irhave .
not followed the dictates of a sound judgment in
condemning this young man ?" said the gov-
ernor.
"I see, indeed, a startling array of -evidence;

but my heart is not
head is somewhat at
is some duplicity an
of all this. Governor
it all the work ofa eu
though I confess I
Davion, with much
very fact of his being
firm the governor in
m an adv ntage.
"The young man
of," replied uis excel
head.
" You will, at least
an impartial trial!"
overwhelmed with gr
" He shal be broil
and I shall xamine
placed face to face wit
me, Father 9avion, ii
form; for you see thu
him to establish his ii
against him is direct
"Do you know, G
Helen Lerowe, your
man ?" added Davio
The face of de B1c
He fell back into his
partly arisen, as if he
blow upon his person
and looked into theft
air of vacant wonder.

yet  nvinced, though the
los4  Believe me, there
wic edness at the bottom
de, ienville, I pronounce
ning and insidious enemy ;
anno explain it," replied
embarrassment;, but the
embarrassed served to con-
11s opinions, and afforded
s no enemies that I know
ency, with a shake of the
grant him the privilege of
xclaimed Father Davion,
ef.
ght before me to-morrow,
im myself, and lie shall be
his accuser. But believe
will be a mere matter of
t it will be impossible for
nocence, and the evidence
to the point."
vernor de Bienville, that
air ward, loves this young
, in a low, impressive tone.
nville turned deadly pale.
chair, from which he had
had received a crushing
For a moment hes
ce of the priest with n
By a masterly effort the

governor recovered i a measure his self-posses-
sion. The color ca e back - to his face ; he
passed his hand-over is brow as if collecting his
scattered thoughts, a d then replied in avoice
tolerably calm, thong much changed:
"This is strange ne s indeed ; it fills me with
astonishment. How ong since you were certain
of this"  4
"Within the hour   I had it from Helen's
lips."
"Leave me, Father avion," said de Bienville,
abruptly. "I would fain be alone.. I am as
tired of governing as ever Sancho Panza was
when he was governo of Barrataria."
"Do not act hastil," added Davion. "Re-
member that he is to me as Benjamin was to
Jacob. If, aught sho ld befall the young man,
it would bring down  y gray hairs in sorrow to
the grave. For my s ke, and for Helen's sake,
be merciful, and be ju t also."
"Be assured that I ill be just," returned the
governor, somewhat coldly.

"One word more, your excellency; do not
forget that I do not yet believe Henri guilt;
however much circumstances may seen to critn
inate him."
"Who do you suspect of plotting against
him ?
" Captain Lesage," replied the priest,promptly.
"And for What'reason ?"
"Because he regards him in the light of ,
dangerous rival."
" Such baseness cannot ,exist,"- rejoined de
Bienville.
"Perhaps you are not aware that Captain
Lesage is already known among the Indians as
Chef Menteur, or lying chief," added Father
Davion.
" Considering how much you love the young
man, I pardon the insinuations which you are
pleased to make against the character of a brave
'nd zealous officer," returned the governor,
coldly.
"He has zeal, it is true; but I much doubt
that it is according to knowledge," replied Fa-
her Davion.
We shall see ; good night, Father Davion."
"Good night, your excellency, and may God
grant you the excellent wisdom of a Daniel to
detect the hidden wickedness of this matter."
Bowing respectfully, the priest left the pres-
nce of the governor. Helen was awaiting him
n the ante-room, with pale and anxious face.
The sorrowful looks of Father Davion did not
e   to re-assure her. She would have gladly
sked many questions, but her tongue refused to
perform its office.
"You desire to know the worst," said the
rest, kindly taking Helen by the hand. "I. vi*l
ell you the truth and conceal nothing from you
enriis in imminent peril."
" With what crime is 'he charged ?" asked Hel
n, with a strong effort.
" The crime of selling his country to the In-
ians," said Davion.
"It is a base slander !" exclaimed Helen.
Henri Deleroix is not guilty of such wicked-
i ess. He is too good, too generous, too noble 1!
"So I believe, my daughter; and I love to
hear you speak, his praise when other tongzes
revile him."
Father Davion then explained the nature of
the evidence which was to convict the young
man of so heinous a crime. During the recital4
the cheeks of Helen glowed with indignation.
" The plat is deep ,and dangerous, and artfully

I


THR WHITE ROVEB:

ontrived," said Xelenwhen the priest had con- claimed Helen, "for it must not be. The gover-
4uded. "But it doesnotshalke my faith in the in- nor is not cruel. I will seek him-I will beg
,gy 9f Henri, or the protecting providence of him uponbended knee to spare Henri."
a just God. The mask must fall eventually from  "I would not dampen the ardor of your
*!fac ofLesage, and he will be seen in all the hopes," replied Davion, sadly; "but, you are
despicable deformity of his character."  -  aware, that-de Beinville is a man of firmness and
no uit';but ,it will be so, my child; but we resolution."
must not forget that it possibly may not be until  Bestowing his blessing .upon Helen, Father
9ft  tahe1ssacrifice is consummated, and Henri Davion left the governor's mansion and hastened
is-"                                        toward his own lowly dwelling, looking sorrow.
" Speak notthe cruelwords, good father!" ex- fully at the prison as be passed.
-

AccoMP:A.uN by (
turn to the hero of of
prison, with heavy ir
first emotions upon fin

ur naders, we will now re-
ur story, whom we left in
us upon his hands. His
ing himself so unceremo-

niously incarcerated  ere those of indignation,
and surprise. .
Utterly ignorant of what crime he was accused,
he taxed his imagination in vain for an adequate
cause for such treatm nt. That Lesage was the
active 'agent of his  isfortunes, he did not
doubt; but the meads employed was the subject
that perplexed him. Guilty of no infractions
upon the laws of the colony, he was far from
entertaining..even a suspicion of his danger.
The thought which annoyed him most deeply
was a well-defined fear that he might be dis-
graced in the eyes of Helen Lerowe; or that by
some means Bering his incarceration, she might
be induced to bestow her hand, upon Lesage.
This was truly a painful subject of reflection to
Henri.
Weary of thinking and forming conjectures,
before morning he fell into a troubled sleep. It
was a late hour when he awoke. The sun was'
two hours high, and his beams were streaming
brightly into the prison through the grated win-
dows. The turnkey entered with water and
food; and though he waited a rfoment evidently
with the expectation of being questioned, Henri
was tooproud to ask anything in relation to his
imprisonment, and suffered him to depart with-.
out Interchanging a:single word with him.

Withlhis foot Henri dashed, thejug of water
against the wall, and the coarse bread soon share.
ed the same fate. Smiling at his own impatience,
he arose and walked up and down his narrow
cell, occasionally pausing to note how strangely
the handcuffs looked upon hie wrists.
While thus employed, the door of his prison
grated once more-upon its hinges and a file of men
entered, headed by Sergeant Dumont. Obeying
the motions of their leader, the armed men
placed themselves upon each side of Henri, and
he was cornlucted from the prison - to the pres-
ence of the governor. The latter was surround:-
ed by several of the principal officers of the cot..
ony, and the members of his council, among
whom were the Chevalier de Noyan, lieutenant
governor; Chevalier de Loubois, the; laren of
Cresnay, Chevalier de St. Julian, De St, Ange,
De St. Bessan, and de St, Dennis, beside many
other distinguished personages; and lastly, Cap-
tain Lesage.
As the eyes of Henri wandered from one te
another, he felt an indefinable foreboding in hje
heart. Why were the principal men of Louisiang
present ? - What important crisis or emergency
had called thera.pogether ?
Though somewhat" abashed and confounded
for the instant, at finding himself'before such an
august body,the White Rover quickly recpvered
his self-possessiofi and walked to the prisoner's
box proudly erect and selfreliant,,
"A princely figuresupn my word" sai4 1)

0

CHAPTER IX.
- THE TRIAL.

PpAr
'5

t


.2THE WHIG
St Ange to the Chevalier de Noyan, who sat
wear him.
-$He carries himself like a belted knight," re-
Plied the lieutenant governor.
"A noble figure !" said St. Julian, in the same
tone. -
"He bears himself bravely," added the Baron
of Cresnay, while a buzz of approbation ran
through the court-room; for many of the prin-
cipal citizens had heard of the arrest, and been
admitted to witness the trial, as his excellency
did not wish to conduct the unfortunate affair
wholly in private. Henri was a general favorite,
and he was anxious that the whole might be
conducted in an impartial manner, in order that
there should be no murmuring or complaint.
"He has not the face of a traitor," resumed
de St. Ange.
"He certainly has not," replied Chevalier de
Bessan ; "but judging from appearances is not
always righteous judgment, you know," he add-
ed, quickly.
h ' couit eras1 now called to -order by the
letteinut governor, who made a few appropriate
narks something like the following.
r .iKnighits, officers; and gentlemen exercising
*ithority inthe colony of his majesty, king of
prance, by the.'order of his excellency, the gov-
'  oiir you have been requested. to give your
6pineons 'upon a case of extraordinary interest,
baih ~as it concerns the safety of every in.
k"'   ltebitant'of.Louisiana. The prisoner at the bar
aeused of a Very great crime."  '
At the point of de Noyan's speech,$Henri, who
u  a4istsen ta his feet,-leaned anxiously forward
t ei  his words        ;
4 The, crime of Betraying one's country is
Itttitiits parallel inienormity; and it is of this
Fhgh nisdemdeanorthat Henri Delcroix, the pris-
6neat the badt is accused: Gentlemen, I adpn
sery to add that the proofs which have been
Sudetipon his persongand furnished from other
reliable sources, scarcely admit of a doubt in re-
= i'tohis guilt; but, notwithstanding all this,
1""Ae ddellency has thought t to grant him a
1s    trial. The prideyl witnesses will now
; efeahed and all the eviitesagainst the pris-
-oihr will be adduced, tog her with any rebut-
tiiigtestimouiy whiehhis friends:may be able to
'corward-                    a
Wht  oNoyan pronounced in a clear and
e   idalodie' the naturof" the transaction
g~nt him, the White boiver recoiled in dis'.
nt BU16ik ad compoheniyo mind grasp.

TE ROVER.
ed the whole subject at a glance. He saw him-
self standing, as it were, upon the brink of a
precipice, and many'unfriendly hands outstretch-
ed to thrust him headlong into the abyss. He
staggered beneath the terrible charge, and for a
moment, it was with difficulty that he could
stand without support. Crushed and overwhelm-
ed, he sank back into his seat the moment de
Noyan had ceased speaking.
" The young fellow is by no means without
feeling," whispered St. Julian to de Bessan.
The latter made no reply, and Captain.Lesage
was called totestify. He deposed and said that
it was with extreme reluctance that he arose to
criminate the prisoner at the bar, he being a
young man whom he had hitherto esteemed;
but he would come to the point at once, and not
deter the court longer than was absolutely neces-
sary.
Recently, 'le averred, it had pleased his
excellency, on account of the hostile bearing of
the various Indian tribes, to enjoin him to un-
common vigilance in the discharge of his-official
duties. These - instructions, as in duty bound,
he had endeavored. to obey to the letter, and in
the discharge of his duty, it had been his for-
tune to discoverlthe existence of the most alarm-
ing and dangerous conspiracy that had ever
threatened and agitated that unhappy colony.
The first hints that he received of this matter
were from his servant, who is a Banbara negro-
Induced by love for his master, and proinises of
liberal reward,'he revealed the startling news
that all the Africans in the colony had conspired
with the Indians for -the 'total destruction of
their masters, and'all the French settlements in
Louisiana.
He-drew from him, moreover, that the whole
plot was devised and perpetrated by a young
Frenchman. At a given time ali The Indian na-
tions were to rise simultaneously,'and, assisted
by the slaves, slay the whole population india-
critninately, without regard to age, sex, or
condition.
Exclamations of horror and indignation were
heard in all parts of the room, at this portion of
the captain's, testimony. With flushed cheek'
and throbbing brow, Henri sat gazing steadily
at Lesage. -It was only by a strong mental
effort' that he could curb his resentment and
keep it within bounds. His impulsive nature
prompited hiin to -leap from the prisoner's box
and str~dgle' the captain: on the' spot; but li
better judgment told him the folly 'of sicha ~
thought.'

.I

4

The captain went on with much apparent feel-
ing, and related the manner in which he had-
discovered that the prisoner at the bar was the
leader of the conspiracy.' While hunting in the
woods, near Lake Pontchartrain, he had over-
heard a conversation between the prisoner and:
one Pierre Moran, known among the Indians by
the name of the Hunter. Greatly to deponent's
horror, he had heard the whole plan of the con-
spiracy discussed in the most cool and business-,
like manner.
At this stage of the captain's evidence, he en-
tered into many minute and tedious details with
which we shall not trouble the reader ; but suffice
it that his testimony was delivered with the most
consummate art, and made a deep impression.
At some portions, it was extremely difficult for
de Noyan to maintain order, so much were the
citizens excited against the accused.
The birch bark found upon his person at the,
time of his arrest was then produced, and the
diagrams and characters briefly and ingeniously
explained., Henri acknowledged his signature
at the bottom.
Seven or eight of the Banbaras were then
brought forward by the captain, and rendered
their evidence with surprising readiness and
unanimity.
The guilt of Henri seemed indeed to have
been fairly proved. No rebutting testimony was
offered, and the excitement among the citizens
was every moment growing more intense.
The governor, in a stern voice, then asked
the prisoner what he had to say in extenuation
of his guilt.
With eyes flashing with scorn and indignation,
Henri arose to his feet. He folded his arms.
upon his breast, and for a moment looked boldly
around those present. His gaze at length rested
upon Lesage, and his nether lip quivered with
unutterable contempt.. Drawing up his com-
manding figure until he was the most conspicu-
ous object in the room, while every muscle
seemed to work with emotion, and with a sense
of the indignity which 'had been offered, and the
wrong heaped upon him, he slowly stretched
forth his arms, and pointing his finger at Lesage,
said, in a calm, impressive, yet terrible voice:
"I pronounce that man a perjured villain.
The aggravated charges which he has made
against.me, I throw back into his teeth with a
feeling of scorn too great to utter." Then turn-
ing to the governor, he added, in a firm, yet re-
spectful voice: " Your excellency, I protest that

I am not guilty, though circumstances in ie
possession of a villain have conspibed'tooeidit
me. I see'but too plainly my position. Ik no*
what awaits me. I will not consume- 'tim by
reiterating my innocence ; for I perceive thatnfy
ruin is accomplished, that my death' is needfil
to one present-whose name I will not conde-
scend to speak. It is true that there isa coi-
spiracy on foot, 'but I am not, neverwas,An
would scorn to be, its leader. It was bit yesto.
day that I discovered its existence, 'thoughI
have been free to mix with all the Indian'tribes
from first to last. In this important movement
I was not admitted-to their confidence. * It has
been said in evidence against me that have
power over the minds of the red men'; it is true.
Were I at large and so disposed, I could sweep
away all the French settlements in a day; and at
night there would not be a single dwelling stand-
ing, and every head would be scalped. But,
thank Heaven I I love my countrymen too well
to wish them such a fate ; and it gives me plead-
ure, while 1 stand in this august presence,'
know that I have saved them more' than one
from bloody reprisals. Governor de Bienville,
permit me to advise you to station an effieiert-
body of men at Natchez, and' to, increase 'the
number of soldiers and the means of defence at
Mobile, Pensacola,' and .Dauphine Island;'anal
in return I ask but one favor (if the perjurer
must have a victim), that r may die a soldier's
death. I have done."
The White Rover bowed and sat down.
"What a proud and fearless spirit we are
about to extinguish," said the Baron of Cresnag
to St. Ange, in a low voice, as Henri resumed
his seat.
" I will tell-you who he reminds me of," rO-
plied St. Ange. "He makes me think of' Ibee
ville, de Bienville's brother."
The word Iberville reached the ears f the
governor, and he turned quickly towards  .
Ange. The latter looked towards the White
Rover, and de Bienville seemed6lost in reflectio.
" Let the prisoner be removed from the barfor
a short time," said the governor. "Good'cit
zeus, whose opinions are not required in 'the
case, will withdraw."
Henri, closely guarded, was taken to another
part of the edifice, and very soon the hall of
judgment was vacated by all save the governor
and his officials.
Their discussions were short. The prisoner
was placed again at the bar. The'ecrowd came

-THE WHITE ,ROVER.

4t

-


THE WlEITE ROVER.

ear the sentence. When order rivers and wide lakes, it is fitting that I should
s ,the governor ordered Henri to fulfil my destiny even as strangely as it began."
77,jJo,obeyed without any visible emotion,  De Bienville gazed earnestly at Henri, and
a kedik.the -man who held the keys of life listened to his words with breathes attention.
!t   ,a esimlyisn the.face,              De Noyan (nephew to the governor) fixed his
  pgcileroi," said :his excellence, in a eyes upon the young man with'the same eager
99       giad orrowful voice, "a painful duty is sympathy, while the Baron, of Cresnay, de"St.
SIbut, I may not shrink from it, however' Ange, de Bessan, do St. Dennis, the Chealier
gpp -npy regret that the responsibility did de Loubois, and de St. Julien, shared eagerly in
10 ulpgn another man. The crime of the interest manifested by the governor and
i          py  ave beqn convicted is one held in lieutenant-governor ; and there was evidently a
49stion byallnations and-races of men, and reaction in favor of the condemned.
M4 J  estheinous and unnatural. Were there  Henri went on in a distinct and unshaken
ryoon for donuht in regard to your guilt. you voice:
; ull assuredly have the benefit of that doubt;  " The French are my people, but the red map-
A  itiginot so. All these honorable.gentlemen, is my friend. His lodge has ever been open to
glho constitute the bulwarks of Louisiana's safety, me ; and the White Rover never sought hospi-
waNea with methat there is but one course to tality in vain when he presented himself at the
-gurepe-that indicated, by the, stern finger of Indian's door, cold, wet, thirsty, or hungry; but
stice. I can only mitigate the severity of your notwithstanding all this, it was never in my
em'      ; yourrequest is accorded; though thought to wrong my own people. AsI have
'trailtos you shall die the death of a soldier. previously stated, it has been my fortune to save
yth gy dviceof my council, two days are al- more than one from Indian cruelty. Let me as-
pwed   e you. to prepare for the solemn change sure you that the Indian tribes will dearly avenge
.qat rits'you. May you improve this brief my death, and it will be well for you to guard
%Jc; to such advantage that your deadly sin ever your wives and little ones after the sun of
snay be forgotten in that world of which you Friday next has gone down in the west. There
i      ,lp ie an inhabitant. On Friday next, are two ties that death will never sever," contin-
$t5we9 the hours of nine and ten, A. M., you ued Henri, with emotion.
,wil expiate your crime, and,", added the gov-  " A gray-headed old man, a foster father, will
Aegop,inthrobbing tones, " may the Searcher of weep for me. And there is one other who will
human hearts have mercy upon you."         drop a tear to the memory of the White Rover
1 1hapls you," said Henri, with a bitter smile, -a foster sister-a fair and loving being, whose
Mor ,tirlenity, which you have shown me in destiny I fervently pray may never be linked
aodqf sjifering the extreme penalty of the with that of the lying chief." And Henri turned
4j. Te whole has ended as I expected when towards Lesage with an expression of withering
Isaw Captain Lesage arise to testify against contempt.
met- ~ t-   well. Men die but once; and my   " My dear boy ! my dear boy !" cried a broken
$t i in  eopi g with mya previous history. and tremulous voice, and Father Davion was
'htrown upon-the world withontnam, without seen forcing his way through the crowd towards
e   ; without parentage, born in;the wilds of a the bar. De Noyan spoke in a low voice to the
pw utyforsaken by him who should have governor, and then motioned to the proper offi'
* i pitt d.me; fostered by a stranger cers to remand the condemned, to prison. He
$= fep  ejprity, grown to manhood still was instaitly taken from the bar, followed by
t$p, ne ?ai  a less, the companion of the red Father Davion, who invoked blessings upon his
n-fthe ild-forest, a thought- head, and frantically asserted his entire inno-
%_1 ap  and er up and down these broad cence.
"4     "                    4

c~ ~i'

r4

_. 44

CHAPTER IX.

THE lSCAPIn,

Tr was the hour of midnight. The sure her-
aIds of a storm were in the skies: Dark masses
of clouds were seen, at first low on the horizon's
verge, and then rapidly floating towards the
zenith, The low mutterings of distant thunder
broke in upon the silence of the night, and fitful
flashes of lightning.were seen far away in the
west and north.
Pierre Moran was abroad at that gloomy hour.
He was moving swiftly towards Pontchartrain
from the southern margin of Lake Borgne. With
his trusty and inseparable companion, his dou-
-ble-barrelled rifle, grasped firmly in his right
hand, he threaded his way skilfully through the,
forest.
When near the borders of the lake he paused
and.listened with a breathless intensity known
only to the practised woodsman. Very soon he
,heard the shrill notes of a raven, and going for-
ward in the direction of the sound, in a few mo-
ments stood beside the tall figure of Red-Shoe,
the Chickasaw chieftain.
As Pierre joined him, a flash of lightning lit
up the expanse, and threw a vivid glare upon
the face of the red maw; it wat calm, proud, and
naughty as ever in its-expression.
"You imitate the notes of the raven well,"
said Pierre.
:I. tok my lessons from nature," replied Red-
Shoe, with a smile.

"How do you like the night ? Is it not favor
able to our undertaking ?" asked the hunter.
" When the voice of the Great Spirit is heard
in the heavens, and his fire is seen in the clouds,
men seek shelter in their lodges and cabins,
and warriors relax their vigilance. The night
is good," replied Onalaska.
Without farther remark, Pierre Moran and
Red-Shoe moved towards New Orleans. After
a short and rapid walk, they emerged silently
from the forest and stood within the borders of
the town.- Both now halted and prepared them-
selves for the hazardous enterprise upon which
they had voluntarily entered. They examined
their rifles, tightened their belts, and carefully
arranged their side arms.
" You shall lead the way, and I will follow,'
said Pierre Moran, who had much confidence
in the skill of the chieftain.
- " It is well, since my white brother requests
it," answered Red-Shoe. " shall go forward
very still, as though I was going to surprise a
party .of my enemies while they were asleep.
The great hunter will follow me very close and
make no noise. When we are near the:stone
house where the White Rover is kept, thenmust
we look out for the long-knives whe tthe fire
burns up bright in the skies."
" And if.we find the sentinels watchful and

*


II

THE WHITE ROVER.

true to their duty, what then shall we do ?" asked
Pierre Moran.
The chieftain smiled grimly, as he replied -
"Do as they would if they went to surprise an
Indian village, creep softly--leap upon them as
thepanther leaps upon its prey-let the knife do
its work and reach a vital spot. I would do that,
white hunter."
"They are my countrymen," said the hunter,
with a sigh. " I would fain spare them, if pos-
sible. Let nothing but the most urgent necessity
induce us to use violence. Onalaska, you are a
brave man, and can appreciate the feeling that
impels me to spare a fellow-countryman."
"I can," replied Red-Shoe, " and I will respect
your wish. But if the safety of the White Rover
required it, I would slay the great chief himself.
Ay, the knife should find its way to his heart as
easily as'-it passes into its sheath."
"Is my white friend ready ?" he asked, after
a pause.
"He is ready ; lead on, chieftain, and Pierre
Moran will follow if it be to death.
" Good," said Red-Shoe, and the next instant
he was moving towards the settlement like a
phantom of darkness. Following the general'
direction of what is no'w the Bayou road, they
gradually approached St.-Ann street, which was
to be the scene of their operations.
With cautious and noiseless footsteps they
passed many cabins whose inmates were sleep-
ing. Once, soon after entering thetown, a dog
came fortify and barked furiously, but fortunately
the Thunder, which now reverberated through the
skies, either stifled his vociferation, or the ele-
mentary disturbance was referred to as the cause
of his outcries, if they were heard by the towns-
people. Pausing until he had wearied himself
withthy. efforts to'attract attention, the chief and
° oranglided on toward the prison. The dark-
.ess was now intense, relieved only by occasional
gleams s2f lightning.-
1;dShoe paused when they reached St. Ann
street. They stodd hear the structure contain-
ingtthe object of their solicitude. The building
used   a prison at that period did not much re-
Asemble those bold and frowning edifices which
are how' to be seen fronting Orleans and St. Ann
treet. It was a low, stone building, containing
but 4w'compartments. The cells for criminals
the basement, and those for -debtors
joytgether with a small suite of rooms for
e turkey. The edifice was surrounded by a
x l  ibont five feet high, :of stakes or piles,

driven.into the earth, the projecting ends sharp-
ened to a point to prevent it from being scaled'
Outside of this yard or court, since the arrest
of Henri, two sentinels had been placed, who
were relieved from duty once in three hours.
This additional precaution seemed to be war-
ranted on account of the graveness of the offence,
and the peculiar circumstances of the case ; for
it was verily believed that the escape of the
prisoner would be followed by the most serious
consequences, possessing, as he evidently did,
such unbounded influence over the Indians.
Like others imprisoned for capital offences, he
hadibeen placed in one of the basement cells, in
that portion of the prison fronting upon Orleans
street.
The plan which Red-Shoe and Pierre Moran
intended to'pursue, was to surprise the sentinels
pon their post, secure them, awe them into si-
lence, enter the prison, awaken the 'turnkey from
his slumbers, corrupt him to lead the way to the
prisoner's cell, free him from his irons, and then'
depart as quickly as possible, seeking safety in
the boundless forests of the Mississippi Valley.
The moment of action had now come-a mo-
ment requiring all the habitual cunning, coolness
and courage of the Indian and backwoodsman.
They stood within a few yards of- the prison;
but no sounds were heard indicating that the
sentinels were on duty. They waited patiently
until the next flash of lightning 'should reveal
the outlines of the prison and the surrounding
palisade. The rain poured down intorrents. A
heavy burst of thunder made the ground shake
beneath them. The terrible, explosion was in-
stantly followed by a red glare of electric flame,
revealing every object neir them with fearful
distinctness, and..in that lurid and momentary
gleam, a portion of the person of a sentinel was
seen'^standing, statue-like, in the sentry box.
Awed by the  din of the warring elements, he
had ceased to walk his' rounds; and his musket
was resting against the wall beside.
Passing to the other side of the prison, the
second sentinel was found in the same condition,'
though apparently somewhat more comatose, for
it was the'last part of the watch.
"Now," said Pierre Moran to Red-Shoe, in a
whisper, "you secure one, and I will the other,
and do'not shed blood if you can help it."
"It is good,' replied the chief, ." and we will .
see who shall effect his object with the utmost
silence and despatch."
With these words Red-Shoe glided baek td

(

THE WHIT

that side of the building looking towards Orleans
street, where the first sentinel was posted, while
Moran was left to deal with the other who did
duty on St. Ann street.,
The hunter divested himself of his hunting
frock, and wrapping it about the breech of his
rifle (which he had hitherto kept dry beneath it),
laid both carefully upon the ground in the most
sheltered spot he could conveniently find. His
preparations were made with all requisite cau-
tion, and when the deafening thunder warned
him that the lightning was about to illumine the
heavens, he remained motionless until the bright
and blinding glare no longer rendered surround-
ing objects visible. Pierre Moran with a few
quick and noiseless steps reached the palisade,
and stood within a few paces of the sentry box,
which he did not wish to approach directly in
front, but in a lateral direction, a proceeding
which would greatly lessen the chances of dis-
covery.
With -stealthy step he moved on. His bold
heart beat with unwonted quickness when he
found himself standing but a single pace from
the narrow building containing the unconscious
soldier. . With a rapid and decided movement
he threw himself forward, and quick as thought
his powerfulhhand lay upon the sentinel's shoul-
der. At the very instant of doing so, a tremen-
dous peal of thunder broke with violence over
their heads, and almost simultaneously with the
deafening explosion, a sheet of flame blazed
athwart the heavens,.and revealed to the aston-
ished sentinel the stern and threatening face of
Pierre Moran, and the blade of the suspended
weapon. He made a convulsive effort to wrench
the bayonet from h4 musket, but the tightening.
grasp and deep tones of the hunter. struck terror
to his already trembling heart and fear-palsied
arm.
"1Yield-be silent, and you are safe-resist,
and you die !" exclaimed Moran.-
Full of consternation, and astounded by the
sudden and unexpected onset, the soldier was
unable to speak, gud stood quaking in the ner-
vous grasp of the hunter.
"Do you hear and comprehend, man !" added
the litter, shaking him, in order to restore in
some measure his scattered senses.
" Gather up your faculties and do as I bid you,
'and no personal violence shall be offered you."
By this time the sentinel began to understand
his situation and what was.required of him, and
suffered hishands to be bound without a mur

EB ROVER.47
mur. Pierre then emptied the priming from his
musket, took off the bayonet, thrust it into his
belt, and taking his prisoner by the shoulder, led
him passively into Orleans,street. Pierre was
not suffered to remain long in ignorance of the
success of his comrade. He descried the dim
outlines of two human figures, which proved to
be Red-Shoe and the other sentinel,. who had
been secured in the same manner, and .at the
same time.
" I have not forgotten your wish," said Ona-
laska ; "no blood has been shed."
" I feel that it is best thus," replied Pierre, and
then added immediately, turning to the two pris-
oners, "our object is to release Henri Del-
croix, now under sentence of death. Do as we
shall direct you, and you need be under no ap-
prehensions, and shall suffer no bodily harm.
To resist, you perceive, would be madness, and
would result in no good, to you whatever. Now
lead the way to the prisoner."
The firm though suppressed tones of Moran,
the presence of the tall Indian, whose grim and
threatening visage was often revealed by con-
stantly recurring flashes of lightning, all had
their due effect upon the soldiers. Without a
word they moved sullenly toward the prison.
They paused at the gate of the prison yard.
"How shall this gate be opened ?" asked Mo-
ran, in a whisper, of the soldiers. There was no
reply. Red-Shoe laid his hand suddenly upon
his tomahawk, and drew it fromipbelt. The
movement did not escape the antonA f the
prisoners. An expression of fear passed over
their faces, and with a shudder they drew nearer
to the hunter.
"Produce the key if you have it," added the
latter, hurriedly. " There is no time to -lose.
Do not hesitate, as you value your lives.
By a singular piece of good fortune,, the key
to the' gate was really in possession of one of the
sentinels. In a moment it was in the:lock; and
they passed into the court. The party now
stood on the stone steps of the prison.
" Ring the turnkey's bell furiously," added
Pierre, to one of the soldiers'; " when he asks
who rings, and what is wanted, tell him:your
name, and thatiyou come with another prisoner
by order of the governor. Your safety depends
upon the manner in which you perform this
service. If you use any artifice, if your voice
shakes or betrays any anxiety, if you speak not
promptly, I will not answer for the episegen-
ces." And Moran looked signifiesudly ~t Zed-
Shoe.


48

TRE WHITE ROVER.

The soldier to whom the hunter had addressed
himself;,'put forth his hand and- rang the turn-
keyebelt violently, nor discontinued his efforts
until-his voice was heard demanding the mean-
Ing of such peremptory summons.
i fIt is I, Corporal Rion. The governor has
made an important arrest, and the prisoner is
now at the door. Hurry yourself, my good fel-
low, for itrains as it never rained before, and I
am wet to the skinI"
"xeellent !" whispered the hunter. "You
have done yourself credit. You shall lose noth-
ing by it."
Yefy soon the steps of the turnkey were heard,
approaching. The features of Red-Shoe and,
Pierre Moran lighted up with satisfaction. The
kaygrated'in the lock and the door swung open.
" AStep in quick," said Pierre, and he pushed
the :soldiers forward over the threshold, and
speedily followed them.
"Here are two prisoners," said the turnkey.
""es," said Moran, promptly, "and you to
the number, makes three." As the hunter uttered
these words, he laid his hand upon the jailor's
arm, and Red-Shoe closed the door.
"You're quite a joker," said the turnkey, withI
.a laugh.
" There is no joke about it, my fine fellow,"1
replied- Pierre. "Look at these men a little
closer , You perceive that they are soldiers-
the very ones posted at your doors as sentinels.
To be brief, we have come to set Henri Delcroix
ati liberty. Lead the way to his cell without a
manient's delay."t
The jailorrecoiled in unspeakable amazement.
He looked first at one, and then at another, and f
his face grew ashy pale as his eyes rested upon
the Indian ehief, who, standing erectland haugh- t
ty, impatiently motioned him onward with his
band.           '
Qentlemen," said the trembling functionary, t
in a faltering voice, "I should be pleased to see y
your authority."
Pierre Moran.touched the handle of his knife, n
and the proud chieftain made a significant mo- s
tion towards his hatchet.                 i
RhIjaildir hesitated no longer. Overwhelmed b
with fears in regard to his own safety, he led a
thaeway towards the cell. of the condemned as ti
*.t g'1hisIhnbs could carry him. Urging the p
Csl  i m$ng befoe them, Onalaska and the
,frijfolloWed. There was a little indecision l'
b agallovomeents~of the keeperwhen he reached m
thi40tfIhe prisoner's cell, but a fierce ges-

,ture, and a threatening scowl from the chieftain
quickened his motions and banished his irreso-
lution.
He applied the key and threw open the door
with as much alacrity as his trepidation would
permit. Henri was awakened from his uneasy
slumbers by the creaking of the hinges and the
sound of footsteps. He started from his recum-
bent position, and cast his eyes with an inquir-
ing expression toward the door. His vision
rested upon Onalaska and Pierre Moran, and- a
gleam of gladness and surprise passed over his
pale visage.
" What do I see ?" he exclaimed, arising to
his feet, and stretching forth his manacled hands.
" The White Rover sees his red brother and
another friend," replied Red-Shoe, calmly.
" And how and why have you come ?" contin-
ued Henri, with increasing wonder.
" We-have come," said Moran, "to set you at
liberty. Jailer, knock off those disgraceful irons.
They were never forged for the wrists of a man
of honor."
" I understand all," returned Henri, glancing
at the two soldiers, bound and powerless. " You
have risked your lives to save mine: I thank
you from the profoundest depths of my heart;
but I have committed no crime worthy of death;
and I cannot fly like a criminal to save my life."
"Nay, Henri Delcroix, you must not fall a
victim to so nice .a sense of honor," replied the
hunter, earnestly. " We have considered all.
We know that there is hut one chance for you
to vindicate your innocence, and re-establish
your good name, and that one chance is in
light."
" I am resolved not to fly from my fate," re-
urned Henri, firmly.
" Would you die, young man, with such a
burden of guilt upon your shoulders. Who will
ake the trouble to establish your innocence after
you have suffered the doom of a felon? Who
will believe you innocent when the law has pro-
nounced you guilty, and the word of justice has
ealed the decision with blood. I ask and wait
n vain for a response ; none is given, nor can
e. The world will speak and think of you as
traitor. But if 'you escape, and thus gain
ime, your innocence can be fully and completely
roved."
"Pierre Moran, you argue well, perhaps just-
y; you shake my resolution," rejoined Henri
nuch wrought upon.
"And there is yet another object thatrequires

t

your .thoughts-Helen Lerowe. Will she not
weep when you are no more ? Will she not
cease to be happy when you cease to live ?".
"Mon Dieu! you move me 1" said Henri, with
a sigh.
" And think of the frantic grief of FatherDa-
vion,' added Pierre.
" And of the sorrow of the Soft-Voice," said
Red-Shoe.
Henri held forth his hands, and the jailor
knocked off the irons.
" You have conquered," he said, in a voice
rendered unsteady by emotion. "Do with me
as you will."
"'Good," said Onalaska. " The friend of the
red man shall be saved. The White Rover
shall be seen again in the forest, and his rifle
shall be heard upon its rivers and lakes."
The chief took the lamp from the hand of the

turnkey and passed out, together with Henri and
Moran. The two soldiers and the jailor were
left in the cell. Pierre turned the key upon
them, and the three were prisoners.
With rapid steps they hurried from the prison,
locking the door after them, and the gate of the
court precisely as they had found them. The
violence of the storm had passed. The rain was
still falling, but less plentifully. The thunder
was heard with fainter veheinence, muttering
afar off in the distance ; the lightning flashed
at more lengthened intervals, and with dimin-
ished brightness.
Red-Shoe and Pierre Moran caught their rifles
from the ground, and in a few moments they
and the White Royer were lost in the depths of
the forest, where they could safely laugh at the
false claims of justice, and the weakness of prison
bars.

1

THE WHITE ROVER.

aI


CHAPTER X.
A DISSEMBLER'S AVOWAL OF LOVE.

THn morning succeeding the escape of Henri
dawned clear and bright. The only traces of
the -late storm were found in the wet gross
and pools of water standing by the wayside.
Since the condemnation of her lover, the-heart
of Helen Lerowe had known no respite from
sorrow; but being firm in the opinion that he
was innocent, and that by some means he would
be saved, she had struggled hard to temper
down the violence of her grief to a calm and
unconcerned demeanor; but this she found it
hard to do, and so she let the storm of her first
real grief pass in the solitude and silence of her
own chamber. Feeling at length that the sym-
pathy of one true heart would indeed be pre-
cious, she resolved to visit Adelaide Ridelle,
aid seek a momentary relief in the companion-
ship of a nature so purely feminine and so
gentle..
Hastily putting'on her bonnet and shawl, she
silently left the mansion of her guardian and
took the way to St. Charles street. Her chagrin
cannot well be described, when after walking a
few yards she was joined by Captain Lesage.
Helen's aversionr'for the man had-increased until
it had grown to an absolute horror of his pres-
one. Scarcely deigning to notice him she hur-
rded forward,
of=are abroad early, Mademoiselle Le-

rowe," he said, with much suavity. "But you
are doubtless desirous of breathing the air puri-
fled by the shower of last night."
" You are right, captain, and I desire to breathe
it alone," replied Helen, with dignity.
Lesage bit his lips, and was rather confused
by this ho  thrust.
"Nay, fair  aiden, such a thought were sel-
fish. The air of heaven is designed for all to
respire, and to me it is rendered purer and
sweeter by the presence of Helen Lerowe."
" Captain Lesage, such words from some men
would please me, but when spoken by others
they offend," returned Helen.
" You are hard with me, Mademoiselle Le-
rowe ; and I can perhaps conjecture why it is
so," rejoined Lesage. " If in the discharge of
my duty, I have been forced to witness against
one whom I am informed you knew and es-
teemed im 'childhood, I am rather to be pitied
than condemned. I do assure you, mademoi-
selle, that I have suffered not a little on account
of this misguided young man."
Here the captain paused and evinced much
emotion.
, " Gladly would I have saved him, and I have
spent an'hour with the governor in earnest en-
treaty that his life might be spared, but alas i
his excellency is inexorable. He admired 'my

THE WHITE ROVER.                 51

generosity, but grew angry at my pertinacity.
You can never know the agony I suffered when
I stood up to testify against Delcroix. And
why did I suffer? Because I knew that he was:
esteemed by Helen Lerowe. Believe me, .if
there is aught I can do to mitigate the fate of
this young man it shall be gladly done. All the
return that I ask is, that I may be placed in the
list of your friends-thought of with kindness,
and ultimately with pleasure. Am I overween-
ing, mademoiselle? Do I ask too much ? Do
I overstep the bounds of decorum ?"
As Lesage went on, his voice grew soft, sub-'
dued, and humbly respectful.
"Is it possible that I have judged this man
wrongfully ?" thought Helen. .-
"1Mademoiselle Lerowe," resumed the captain,
"I beg of you when this. unhappy tragedy has
been enacted to the end, and the grave has closed
over that misguided youth, whose thoughtless-
ness has well-nigh baptized this colony in blood,
to think less harshly of one who would willingly
have spared the offender at the 'risk of every-
thing, in order to save you a single tear, or a
sigh of sorrow. Were it not for this unhappy
affair, I would even now venture to report
the story . of my unrequited love.  But I
may not tell the tale. My motives would be
doubted, my actions misconstrued, and my in-
tegrity called in question. But were Henri Del-
eroix at large, and unsuspected oferime, I would
upon bended knee tell you such a story of un-
changing, fathomless love as living woman never
heard. The history of my passion must remain
untold.  I can only think -of your supernal
beauty, and dream of your angelic goodness;
all I may ask is your pity, a small boon for
Helen Lerowe to accord to a hopeless man."
With low and solemn earnestness of tone, the
consummate dissembler breathed 'forth these
honeyed words.
,«Captain Lesage," replied Helen, seriously,
" your presence is not agreeable to me. I know
not well why it is, but your words are to me
like the hissing of a serpent. My soul turns
instinctively from you with loathing and fear.
Your looks are sorrowful, and your speech sub-
dued and grief-like, but you fail to touch my
heart. It seems to me (God knows whom I wrong
and whom I do not) that when the sacrifice of my
foster brother shall have been consummated,
the Judge of all human hearts will require his
blood-at your hands. Go, Captain Lesage, and
when you have made your peace with Heaven,

will be the proper time to speak of earthly mat-
ters. My spirit is too sorrowful now to brook-
patiently the presence of the man who- has been
an active agent in the conviction of my foster--
brother.. I wish you a good morning."
" To your sorrow, then," replied Lesage, bow-
ing deferentially, " will I attribute your unkind-
ness to one who would sell his best blood to
serve you, and think the sacrifice a pleasure.
Heaven sustain and keep you, mademoiselle."
With another bow, humbly respectful,' sad
apparently, and grieved, the captain-left Helen
to pursue her way. to the St. Charles.
" Be of good courage," said Madame Ridelle,
as our heroine entered the house. " I feel within
me a good assurance that an all-wise Providence
.will yet intetpose to prevent this sacrifice.
" Weep not, faint not, despair not, cease not to
trust in Him who dispenses life and death, pun-
ishes the guilty and rewards the righteous."
" I will struggle hard to do so," replied Helen,
weeping. "Do not reproach me, nor deem it
unmaidenly to shed a few tears for the 'fate of
my foster-brother-one so good, so loyal, and
yet so basely maligned."
"My poor child," said a gentle ,voice, which
proved to be that of Madame Mablois, to whom
the reader's attention has before' been called.
"Let the noble consciousness that Henri Del-
croix is innocent, impart fortitude to your soul,
and uphold your sinking spirit."
Helen turned towards the speaker with an
expression of the liveliest satisfaction.
" Are you here, good mother I" she exclaimed,
embracing her warmly. "I am indeed glad to
see you in this hour of sorrow. Appropriately
have the red men of the forest named you Soft-
Voice. When you speak so gently and hope-
fully of Henri, your tones are indeed musical
and soft."
"There are," said Mablois, in a suppressed yet
earnest voice, " active agents at work for the lib'
eration of Henri, and they will succeed at what-
ever hazard. Even now," she added, propfieti.,
tally, " he may be at liberty."
"Speak on, 'Madame Mablois. Your words
fall like healing dews .upon my heart !".cried
Helen. And then she added in-a more serious,
tone, " Yet it is not well to foster false hopes-
it would but entail more, bitter woe at last."
"Pierre Moran," said Adelaide, appeariug..at
that moment, "knows much ; he assures. mej of
the wickedness of Lesage."

itI


THE WHITE ROVER-

"And Piere Moran speaks the truth," added
Mabloiia
"He told me upon the night on which the
wrraflt *as issued for his arrest," continued
Adelaide, with a blush, "that the captain had
laid more than one plan for th destruction of
Deicroix."
"And the troth of the case is that Pierre is
too deeply-in the captain's confidence to be safe,"
added Madame Ridelle. - " It was on this ac-
countfhat Lesage thought it- best to have him
imprisoned so that he could not testify at the
trial of Henri."
"I perceive that you do not yet know all,"
saidMadame Mablois. " The captain has em-
plpyed an agent to rid himself of Pierre Moran'
The cheeks of Adelaide grew pale.
But fear not," continued Mablois, "he has
failedin this, and the very agency he has em-
ployed threatens to prove fatal to himself ulti-
"It is thus that our Heavenly Fatherpunishes
wcked I" exclaimed Madame Ridelle, pious-
The evil they propose for others not un-
f tly falls upon their own heads."
Mfrsomie fnyther couversation of a -similar
nature, Hele returned home more hopeful, and
osiger in the faith that something would trans-
pire to avert the doom of Henri.
s ihe -passed toward her chamber, she ob-
served that de Bienville, her guardian, was in
aclo- and alone. She resolved to speak
with him upon the subject uppermost in her1
i1 ot%*e: ayingsllsAeher walking appsare,
l      a    p     p    ar             l,
she returned and entered the
!fhef ai-rdr was pacing to and fro, absorbed
din t." Haused anid senried somewhat
&amp;l eyed when his fair wrd ma'de her 'p-
pearance. He fixed his'penetrating eyes full
Wtibier:but, to 'employ the words of another,
"lo e n sorik6Wthan in auger." --
fgetnk  you look pito to-day, Helen," he
mo; 1o 641. .
"And is there not sttleient cause ?" replied
s, With averted gaze.
"What mdean you ?" asked d o   inville,
-     tn6t my foter-brother doomed to death?"
return  hi ivd.
"%f.f b     'not by'the endearing name of
wfbher,'rejoinedade Iienville, somewhat sternly.
He hs forfeited all elei to yeair bfmitfy."

" My dear guardian! my good, kind friend,
do not say -so !" exclainied Helen, earnestly.-
" He is not guilty'of the crime for which he hat
been unjustly condemned."
"Do you accuse me of injustice, Helen ?"
said the governor, sadly.
"Pardon me, my best and most generous
friend and benefactor; but if your conscience
has not already told you that you have acted
with too much precipitancy, far be it from the
child of your bounty to be your accuser," an-
swered Helen.
" You take an ingenious way to accuse, Helen,"
rejoined de Bienville, mildly. "I have no mal-
ice against that young man. I have done-with
extreme reluctance-what nave thought my
duty. I grant that he appears truly noble and.
innocent; but facts are fearfully against him.,
I would that there had been some pretext for
sparing him, for he impressed us all in his favor..
But the plot was truly a horrible one."
"It fills my heart with pleasure to hear you
speak thus in favor of the unhappy Henri. Lis-
ten still further to the dictates of your better
judgment, and save him. Believe me," continued
Helen, with increasing earnestness, "he is inno-
cent of the crime charged upon hir. Lesage
has perjured himself. He has before attempted,
the life of Henri; but fortunately he failed."
" Can you prove what you affirm ?" asked the-
governor, eagerly.
"I could, if Pierre Moran could be found,""
answered Helen, quickly.
"Pierre Moran," said de Bienville, thought-
tully. " I know him; a dark, sinister-looking
man, but possessed of a fearless heart, and I be-
lieve him honorable. I mu st'sift this matter to
the bottom. But it is dif eult to believe, fort a
morient, that a man so smoothly. spoken, and
apparently so candid and forgiving withal, can
be  guilty of what yout accuse him. If it should
prove so, woe be to him."
De Bienville spoke the last few words in that
firm and deep toned voice which characterized.
him in nioinehts of excitement, and indicated a
fixed and unchanging purpose..
Helen sank upon her knees, held the govern-
or's hands in her white and tumbling inger,
and shed gaateful tears upon there.
"What is this young man to you?" asked d6+
Bienrilie, sorrowfully.
"If you have fathomed my secret, be still ih-
erorts, 2ny bertefactor," replied lielet. "

I

4

me not unmaidenly. Deal not too sternly with
your poor girl."
" God forbid, Helen, that I should deal sternly
with you," returned de Bienville, with emotion.
"It is not in my heart. I could'not be stern
with you if I would. Cease to weep, child ;
your tears tove me."
" Then will I continue to weep !" cried Helen.
"Nay, my girl, arise. I will investigate this
matter more deeply ; for I tell you in confidence
I wish to save this man. He' interests me in
spite of myself. You should have seen him
when on trial. How his noble figure dilated
with the conscious pride of manly strength to
bear the worst ! what 'indomitable energy of
spirit flashed in his eyes ; with what heroic for-
titude and courage he bore his fate. ,But where
is this Pierre Moran?  Can epbe found ?"
" An order was issued for his arrest, and he
fled for safety to the forest."
"Ah, yes, I remember about the warrant."
"It was a part of the policy of Lesage that he
should not testify at the trial of Henri," added
Helen.
"And why not ?" asked the governor.
"For the very good reason, as I have just
learned, that Captain I4esage had offered him
two hundred pounds to take the life of Henri."
"Helen, are you sure that there is no mistake
about this " asked de 1ienville, with solemn
earnestness.
" I feel very sure that I have not been misin-
formed.. And this is not all; I heard that he is
even now plotting with some of your enemies to
have you recalled to France."
"My dear Helen, you astonish me beyond ex-
pression: I must attend to this. I feel that you
are not altogether wrong," rejoined the governor,
hurriedly, and considerably excited.
Helen kissed the governor's hand, and arose
from her knees with her face glowing with new
hope.
De Bienville gently put back the dark masses
of her dishevelled hair, -gazed earnestly and ten-
derly into her face, and then bending forward,
gravely kissed her fair brow.
Helen inclined her head and received the salute
Y gracefully.
" Go, my child, and by the help of Heaven, I
will do my duty by you," he said, in an agitated
voice. " I know not why my heart turns to-
wards you with an affection so pure, so deep
and fatherly, but I know it is thus."
While the governor was speaking, a messen-

53

A

ger rushed into the apartment with breathless
haste, dispensing with all the forms of etiquette.
" I come to inform your excellency," he cried,
in hot haste, " that Henri Delcroix has escaped.
The two sentinels, and the jailer, were found
this morning locked into the cell which he had
occupied. Captain Lesage is almost frantic with
fury, and has despatched men in every direction'
to find the prisoner; but everybody that has
heard of the escape says it will be of no use,
because long before this time he is in the depths
of the forest, and surrounded by a thousand'
warriors."
With a cry of joy Helen sank fainting upon
the floor.
"I thank you for your promptness in bringing
me the important news," said the governor. "I
will attend to it."
Waving his hand for the messenger to go, do
Bienville raised his ward in his arms and placed
her in an easy chair, and in a few moments she
recovered.
"Escaped !" she cried, with a smile of joy.
"Escaped ! gone ! safe ! Heaven be praised!"
" One thing you have forgotten," said the
governor. " His escape and flight proves his
guilt."
"By no means. It seems to me the only way
to establish his innocence  for no man can
prove his own innocence after his death," re-
turned Helen.
"A very ingenious argument," answered do
Bienville, with a smile. And then he added
immediately in a low voice, "Were it not trea-
son to my king and country, I would say-on
your account-I am not sorry that he has thus
escaped."
"Ever kind, ever indulgent, ever generous,"
replied Helen. "You overwhelm me with good.
ness, you fill me with admiration."
Saying these words our heroine retired to her
chamber, with her heart lightened of its burden
of sorrow. Providence had indeed interposed=
its saving hand to shield the innocent.
The light steps of Helen had scarcely ceased
to be heard, when the tall and majestic figure of,
the princess, La Glorieuse, swept unannouncede
into the apartment. Unabashed and self-pos-
sessed, she paused before the governor.
".Great chief," she said, calmly anid distinctly,
and in good French, "I have come to bibng'thi
speaking bark from the White-Rove=
" Be seated, daughter of the Sun tMa d
Bienville, courteously recovering frm his stir.

THE WHITE ROVER.


THE WHITE- ROVER.

prise at the unexpected appearance of the prin-
ce. "Be seated, while I talk with the "speak-
ing bark."
Tie governor unrolled the scroll of bark which
La Gorieuse had given him, and read as follows:
"GotBaNOR DE'BIENVILLE :
"Though doomed to a felon's death, and
forced-to fly from my own people for safety, I
have not yet learned to be, the enemy of the
Fxeaeb. But could I so far forget myself as to
haebqra traitor's thoughts, at the expiration of
aingleweek I could appear before New Or-
leans at the head of three thousand warriors.
$ach ia not my purpose, for I would not forego
the claims of humanity for the sake of punishing
a ite enemym, though an enemy who has well-
nigh effected my ruin.
"I do not reproach your excellency for the part
you havetaken in my disgrace. I can read hu-
man nature well enough:to know that you acted
conscientiously, and-according to the dictates of
your best judgment, and I even read sympathy
fov ,mein your earnest eyes. I forgive you freely,
and with real sincerity, though deeply regretting
that a Iofty and honorable miad should be de-
coived by a perjured villain. My conscience,
Governor de Bienville, almost accuses me of
injustice to the friendly though savage people
whom I am among, 'or what I am about to tell
young his is a hard and cruel heart indeed
who would not sacrifice something to save his
countrymen from destruction.
,Allow me to respectfully urge upon you the
p opriety, and necessity even, of sending more
men to Natchez: That part of the French colo-
nysill soon-have need of brave and determined
defenders. Let tl slaved be weli watched, for
yo'u have much to. fear from them. There is
one amougthem called Samlea-a man of much
resolution and couriage-who is a leading spirit
ing e inurietionary movement. You will per-
hapsfMorinoineidea of how much you have'to
fear, whien I inform fouthat Red-Shoe, the cele-
brated Chickataw chief, is at the head of the
hd   r: desionstraion ottthe part of the Indian
rlbii. Th. object of this alliance and conspi-
-}fVj'ef which I am accused as being the prime
anor,.is  the total extinction of the French
colony, aslaalready been represented to you
~by ~esgewho by some means really obtained
if6$ation concerning the projected movement.
"ButevenLesage has no -ideaof the real dan-
"h irmeiades -the:French. Much'of
tienhleh he4tasadade oath to, was mqre mat-

ter of guess-work with him; and the peril is ten,
yea, an hundred times more imminent than he
imagines. I am doing all in my power to avert
this cloud of destruction hovering over Louisi-
ana. Heaven knows how earnestly I hope that
my efforts may be crowned with success.
"Sorvidal is stationed among the Chickasaws,
ostensibly as an agent, but. really as a spy. He
had better be recalled. The Indians have fath-
omed his purpose, and he is not safe a single
hour. I shall advise him to leave when I see
him. He can effect nothing by staying among
them, for they are too shrewd to admit him to
their councils or confidence. If the destruction'
of the colony can be averted in no other way, I
shall endeavor to produce hostilities between the
Chickasaws and Choctaws, and thus turn the
tide of battle in that direction. If it be true that
you have a secret and even active agent or spy,
who is unceasingly hovering with silence and
secresy among the various Indian tribes, he will
assure you that I have spoken truly, and advised
you for the best, as time will prove.
"If the tongue of rumor speaks not falsely,
there is one in your employ whose mysterious
movements, whose fittings from place to place,
almost entitle him to the faculty of ubiquity.
Seek his counsel, and learn whether H'enri Del-
croix is a friend to his people. I send this
'speaking bark' by the hand of one whom you
know, the proud daughter of the Sun, who is my
friend, and a friend of peace. BeggingPas a favor
that you will assure your ward-my foster-sister
-that I am in safety, I remain your humble
servant.              HENRI DELCnOIX."
The surprise of de Bienville upon the perusal
of this missive was extreme. If he had previously
felt any misgivings in regard to the honesty of
Lesage, they were now increased, while his in-
terest in Henri grew in proportion as his doubts
of the captain's honesty increased.
" Daughter of the Sun," said de Bienville,
turning to the princess, " do the Natchez desire
peace, or are they preparing for war ?"'
" My people love peace, if it can be had on
honorable terms," replied La Glorieuse.
" They shall have them," answered, the gov-
ernor. " You may tell the Great Sun, that the
French chief will do them justice. If they have
bean wronged they shall be righted. Since Ihave
exercised authority in the colony I have been
friendly to the Natchez."
"The words of the wise chief shallbe repeated
Sto the Great Sun," replied the princess. K

I

CHAPTER Xli.
THE PLOT--THE AnDUCTION.
WITH the reader's permission we shall now    "Quitetrue Hubert; but h
-  return to Lesage. After leaving Helen Lerowe, in wooin " said Le      ow do you prosper
he was joined by a man about thirty-five years of  " No better-than  ourself,  and possi
age, well proportioned, and of good address. It well. Why, would yourbelieve it, she scorned
was Monsieur Hubert, the king's commissary-  me with the air of a princess" rejoined theing
a person appointed by his majesty to observe the commissary.  p      ,    o    the king's
conduct of all the colonial officers and report  "A spirited girl is Mademoiselle Adelaide,'
answered the captain, with a smile; for he was
This was not an enviable office, but it ac- secretly rejoiced that his companion in  -
corded well with the disposition of Hubert, who ness had succeeded no betterpthan himself. '
was a man of no principle, ever plotting and   "  spirit ed    no bet; tt he'sen-
desgnngknwin n hghe abitootihngh   irited enough, I adit ; belt she's a splen-
designing, knowing no higher ambition than the did girl, Lesage. A defeat would mriym
gratification of self. He cared not who sank or not a little. The pridemf1eosl orifyme
who swam, so long as he floated safely upon the must by some means be hum  led. My  egood
tide. The conversation which passed between captain; let s devise some effectual means for
the commissary and Captain Lesage, will give the speedy accomplishment of our mutuansfo
the reader a better idea of his true character than es," added the commissary.ual wish=
aught we could write by way of description           done cmssary.
"     elcpti, he +exclaimed With a free " h's done!". exclaimed Lelage, rmty
"Welleas pain," ho e spexclao   wit afree  I have plotted too deeply, and risked too much
*  and easy air, " how speeds your wooing l"   already to be baffled tls.M
"But indifferently ; and in fact I may as well do you       d at last. M. Hubert, what
say it speeds not at all," replied Lesage.     "yo propose .
" heisstl ostnae hn  ledg             That we abduct both the young ladies,n, rep
"She is stsr obstinate then," replied the com- plied the commissd, with energy.
missAy mhIhave thought of the same, and itis feasible.
"Ay, more wilful than ever. I am convinced' By what agencies shall we effect ourpapst
that I can never wgo her by fair and   entle H°at agencies s   a   ny efec ou pise
means," answered Lesage, impatiently.        ca      ously.sad the
"Then you must  resorts to more sumn      cctiaxosy
poeeding, m    satcherest," eoe  umary   I have thought of several scenes  buthe
-    more intricate part of the plotting IshalI enrut
to you," answered Hubert, with a light laugh.


THE WHITE ROVER.

"'f course we must not be known in the
matter ourselves," returned Lesage.
'   ertainly not. We must employ i men less
serBzpulous," retorted the commissary, with ,a
significantlook. "Ihave, you are aware, recently
visited the region of the Sabine river. .By nu-
merous presents, and as many promises, I have
made myself quite popular among the Caman-
ehes, a bold and warlike nation. I have thought
-bythey night be made useful.in the accom-
piishnent of odlobject."
HIappy circumstance ! felicitous thought !"
exclaimed Lesage, joyfully. " If by any means
demoiselless Helen and Adelaide could be
conveyed to the country of the Camanches with
secrecyand despatch, what would hinder us
from following them at our leisure, and enjoying
the reward of perseverance. Who would sus-
pectus of being concerned in the sudden disap-
pearance of the mademoiselles ! I stand high
in1the esteem of the governor, and you are in
equal repute with the ministry and the king."
"I confess," rejoined Hubert, "that I can think

of nothi
ly p
hourly
ohei
fo tr
kEtl
,'f,  a   j

"Captain Lesage !" exclaimed Sergeant Du.
mont, hurriedly, " the prisoner has escaped."
" Sacre Dieu 1" cried Lesage, turning deadly
pale. How did it happen ? What gross care-
lessness caused such a catastrophe ?" ;-,
" He was liberated by some friends who came
from the forest. One of them was an Indian,
the other a white man, as I am informed by the
jailer, whom I found locked into the prisoner's
cell, together with the two sentinels."
" Good heavens !  My plans are-"   The
captain checked-himself. "In the name of won-
der, Sergeant Dumont, how came the sentinels
in the cell?"
'' They .were surprised, captain, during the
storm of last night, and bound. The rest you
can readily imagine," returned Dumont.
"Send parties of men in every direction, and
endeavor to recapture the offesider," added Le-
sage, recovering himself somewhat.
"But he has gone to the forest, captain, most
probably, and pursuit will be utterly useless."
" There is reason in what he affirms," said the-

rng better. The plan indeed see~ps per- commissary.
racticable. Moreover I am daily and   " There is," replied the captain, "but never-
expecting a visit,from a pirty of Camar- theless, make some efforts to retake him, Du-
liwhom   am driving a close bargain mont."
acof land. Iilllo0k to, it that ,thy  The sergeant touched his cap and withdrew.
i;'etbest of humor by liberal presents  "My plans are defeated, Hubert ; ruin stares
t 'm knives, hatchets and guns, The me in the face 4" -exclaimed Lesage. "This
are some of'his treasures, and HenriDeleroix will not rest until he has estab
o     high premium for the friendship lished his innocence. The governor will mis-
ie.                       trust me and I shall be cashiered, and ,perhaps
this deputation enter th e town worse than that.; for de Bienville is summaryin
his proceedings when ,thoroughly aromed."
tn t   essenger will warn me of their  "Fear nothing from him," said the commis-,
'hey will eneamp on the otherside sary. " I have written' to the ministry as' I
"                               promised you, and de Bienville willbe recalled,
M cxn  be more fortunate. But now  or I am no prophet. If it becomes too warm
s~i~xe  iulty to be considered; By for you here before -that.time, -you.canabsent
$b  alwv~ entice the. young.girls far yourself for a period until the storm blows over."
}o"t to town to render their; abduction  " I thank you for these drops of comfort, M.
I ertan- If by an ipgenious expedient Hubert. If you can throw around 'me the agis
,Kidsce them to venture to the borders of your protection, ,I can easily carry out our
rest might be easily managed." plans in relation to the, Mademoiselles Helen
at work, Lesage," retured and Adelaide, or I canrforge the handwritingof
Henri Deleroix to perfection. I will forge a
coud Imtat hphae4ritisg of Bierre note to Helen.'Lerowe, requesting, her to meet
thn   I could be,  ranged to our her lover in the outskirts of the town, in the,
x e-th oaPtaEJ-edge of the.forest. Eierre Myanx, the lover of
n 1e   agelof ed up aridsaw    Adelaide, shall also be spksenof intheante,
9   1 proaceng      hu x     and the two will g to the placeoi meetag to-
eme   oow, j  der'?"s   get a to njoy. chrm      aning e e aAet wt ctnf
-, :  r            ,Chosen swains. What mn r can lie-d se4   . Wa
L             Q(              Q11  'h is$",

"I renounce the plot nearly
the commissary, joyfully, "Th
scheme we will arrange at our
meantime borrow no trouble ab
and Henri Deleroix. Iflatter m
influence enough to protect you
care to keep you admonished-of
governor's feelings ; so make
After you have written the note,
The king's commissary pau
eagerly towards the Levee.
" The saints be praised !" he
fully; "for there comes -my m
deputation of Camanches has an
favors us, my dear captain. Th
are ours. Write the tender billet
hasten to arrange all with my
will be with you before night."
With these words Lesage and
missary parted.'
If Helen Lerowe had wishedI
the hour of her sorrow, before
dently desired to share her- joy
'faithful friends. The sun wasl
ens when she walked with light
footsteps towards Ridelle's for th
The consciousness ,that Henri wi
that which made her happy, an
whole current of her thoughts an
immediate peril being past, she f
his innocence would ultimately b
As Helen turned into Bourbon
ger 'came up from the direction
who paused and regarded her a
much earnestness. He then pass
a folded paper in her hand, sayin
"If I am not much mistaken, 1
The stranger walked hastily o
glanced at the paper and saw he
upon it in the well-known chara
With a blush of pleasure she pla
document in her bosom and quick
When she reached M. Ridelle's,
first congratulations; she drew t
the place where it had been soc
ited,,and rea4 as follows:
"DEAnREsT hELEN :
"'Before this hour, doubt
heard of my escape from priso
free, and in the boundless forest
again hunt upon the margin o:
lakes, and repose on the banks 4
n~r.I can inihale the pure bre
aii liffef ethie songs' iftlie

THE WHITE 1ROVER.5
perfect !" cried Mfy blood, is no longer chille'deby prison danps
e details of the and there are no fetters upon my limbs.
leisure. In the  " Would you see me, Helen ? Would yousay
out de Bienville a gentle word to one doomed to a5 felon's fated
yself that Ihave Would you render lighter the burden of wrongs
. It shall be my 'that bear me down ? Come, then, to the cypress
the state of the tree where we met once. some month since';
yourself easy. ;come during the half hour after sunset to-night.
show it to me." It is possible that you can prevail on Adelaide
sed and looked Ridelle to accompany you, and by so doing
confer a favor on the gallant Pierre Moran, who
exclaimed, joy- will be with me. Do not deem me bold inmak-
iessenger. The ing this request, for I do not urge you to confer
rived. Fortune so great a pleasure upon me; but I should. ever
e mademoiselles be grateful for your condescension. The satis-
t-doux, and-I will faction of seeing you again would banish from
red friends. I my mind the memory of half its recent wrongs.
If I do not see you to-night beneath the.shade
the king's com- of the cypress, I will be at the same-spot to-
morrow night, and please myself with a:faint
for sympathy in hope that you are coming, but that your foot-
night she as ar- steps linger to try my love.
with the s'ame  "Dear Helen, I have room to write ,nos more.
low in the heav- Offering you the best homage of my heart, I
and bounding remain,          Yours truly.
e second time.'' HI
as at liberty was  Mademoiselle Lerowe read this note with a
d changed the -pleasure known only to the woman who truly'
d feelings. The loves. She felt the blood mantling'her cheeks,
elt assured that and her pulses confessed a quicker motion.
be proved.     With a bashful smile she handed, the paper to
n street, a stran- Adelaide.
of the Levee,   " Shall I read, mademoiselle ?" she asked.
i moment with    " You may, undoubtedly," replied Helen, with
sed her, placing a smile.
g, as he did so : Adelaide availed herself of the liberty thus
this is for you." given, and read the note with evident pleasure,
n. Our heroine " Who cares for Pierre Moran ?" she exclait-
r name written ed, with affected contempt.
cters of Henri.  " Mademoiselle Ridelle cares for him,"' said
ced the precious Helen.
kened her pace.  " Not at all; nevertheless I will consent to go
and after the with you for company," returned Adelaide.
he paper from   " I have not said that I should go," answered
carefully depos- Helen.
"But of course you will," added Adelaide.
"It does not necessarily follow that because
)tless, you have a person is requested to do a thing she -ii do
n. Yes, I am   it," rejoined Helen.'
again.' I can  "Yet it does usually happen that young ma.
f the beautiful demoiselles go to meet their -lovers bym on
of thie running light," said Adelaiide.
~ezes of heaven '"etus speak seiously, Adelaide.
gleesome birds " With all my heart, mademoiselle."


58                 1 THE WHITE ROVER.

,"I W"Vill.seriously assure you, then, to begin
with, that' I do, not . feel as though I ought to
comply with Henri's request, I doubt whether
itwould be  aidenly togrant him an interview
under auch 14reumstances. My heart, Adelaide,
tells me to= go,, but there is a secret monitor
within rmybosom that bids me'stay-.''
a":Would it not give you pleasure to see him,
mademoiselle ?"
"Why do you ask, Adelaide ? Do you not
read your answer'upon my glowing cheeks, and
inmy earnestmovements ? Most gladly would
I flyto meet my foster-brother."
"How convenient it is for you to call him
bro4lwr. Ah, Helen, what a nice excuse for lov-
ing him I"
."And what-excuse have you for loving Pierre
MoranVI" asked Helen.
I have never said I loved him, Mademoiselle
Helen."
", ot with your. lips, but your actions have
beenktelling me so this long-time."
"Why, mademoiselle !" exclaimed Adelaide,
with a:blush.
I think I shall not go to the cypress tree,"
said Helen, after a pause.
"That would be cruel, after Henri has suffered
as much."
"It ,might seem so at the first thought."
'He-riskarhis life every time he comes near
I.ew Aleans,.you know, Helen."
t"Too true, Adelaide."
T c ieuitis evidently your duty to see him to-
-ight,,and prevent him from coming again."
"You use powerful and convincing arguments,
A&amp;4laiies especially when the heart is already
pmmpting ma:to'that course,", said Helen, with
a smile and a blush.
"It is near sunset; let us-go beforeoyou return
l   ;ue Ilove to watch the.sun-go down behind
the distant hills, and see his last beams lingering,
pgao the frauches of the trees, as if caressing
them before retiring. Come, do not say no, be-
9 now you admirethebeauties of a ruddy
unso.as much or more than I do. You are
all   ,y .o, excuses.-away to the cypress
A { F } s d+°delaide.
eare you going, ;girls ?" asked Ma-
u a Ridelle, when she saw Helenand Adelaide
#e house.
sp $bpn mu  ae  replied Adelaide, gaily.
Wrsse on " returned Madame, Ridelle;
;.ca'g atpp ; mother; it is wicked.torplay
upon words,"replied the daughter.

"Well, do'not go far, or you will be running
into danger. Several Indians have been seen
hovering about the outskirts of the town lately.
Do not go out of sight of the house, for we have
had sorrow enough, recently, and if' anything
shouldhappen to you and Mademoiselle Helen,
it would quite unnerve me," returned Madame
Ridelle, with true-motherly earnestness.
" We will be very cautious, dear mother,"
answered Adelaide, and then Helen walked
slowly away towards what is now known as St.
James's street ; a spot which was then covered
by a heavy growth.
As Helen moved on, enlivened by the conver-
sation of her companion, she felt her spirits re-
viving, and the mental depression which she had
felt for the last half hour, leaving her. The
sun was setting when they reached the cypress'
named in the note. Its burning disc glowed fiery
red as it sank gently and almost imperceptibly
in the, far-off west. Its departing beams fell
with undimmed splendor upon the cypress
boughs over the heads of the young girls.I
"Let us 'sit down, mademoiselle, upon this
mossy knoll," said Adelaide.
The fair mesdemoiselle sat side by side. Soft
and fragrant breezes fanned their brows, and set
the green leaves in motion. The continuous
roar of the rolling waters of the Mississippi,;
modulated to a dreamy and pleasant monotony,
was borne to their ears.' Birds sang gaily from
the pendant branches.
" Am I not a prophetess, mademoiselle ? Did
I not assure you that the sun would set glori-
ously, to-night ?" §aid Adelaide, enthusiastically.
"It is indeed a calm and lovely hour. The
ruddy glow of the setting sun, the gentle sighing
of the scented winds, the sweet song of the untir-
ing birds, together with the agreeable' murmur'
of the Golden -River, has -a bewildering charm
for me," replied Helen, earnestly. " To me there
is sweetest music in the voices of'-nature'; they
have power to attune my spirit to responsive
harmony. I would that my life could pass on
in an even current, amid scenes and sounds like'
these, far away in the dense green wood. 'It,
seems to me that one might grow better, if not
wiser, and more fit for the world to come.. To
commune with nature is to cultivate an agree-
ment with all terrestrial things. No really bad,
men, 1 am inclined to believe, have ever been
true lovers of nature."'.
"I agree with you," said Adelaide. "I ha
often had such thoughts, but Ihave not often

the companionship of a friend to whom I could
express them. Look ! the sunbeams are getting
lower upon the cypress; they already fall upon
the trunk, and will soon be to the ground. It is,
nearly time for Henri to be here."
of Why did you not say Pierre Moran, instead
of Henri?" replied Helen.
"Because I seldom speak of him," said Ade-
laide.
't"I do not wonder that the red men love the
forest," continued Helen. " It would indeed be
singular if they, did not. Born in the forest,
reared in the forest, they know no fitting home
- save that."
Helen paused.
"I thought I heard a sound," she added.
"It was but the echo of your own voice," said
her companion.
"There is something noble in an Indian. He
is true to his instincts, and true to his friends,"
resumed Helen.
"Hark!" interrupted Adelaide. "I am quite
certain I heard footsteps."
" It is near the hour," replied Helen. "The
sun's disc is now hidden by those distant ranges
of hills. It is the transition hour-ethe birth of
twilight."
Adelaide -uttered a piercing shriek, as at that
instant the dark, tall figures of two Indians stood
beside them- Adelaide continued to send forth
shriek after shriek ; but Helen Lerowe was
speechless with terror. One of the savages laid
his tawny hand upon Adelaide's arm, and mo-
tioned her to silence.
" White squaws go with us," he said, in indif.
ferent French.
"No ! no ! we cannot !" cried Adelaide, in an
agony of terror, attempting at the same time to
free herself from her captor. But the powerful
hand that was upon her held her fair, round
arm as though it had been a feeble infant's.
" Must go with us-mount fine horse-ride a
great way-cross rivers and valleys-find anoth-
er country, full of great prairies, where the sun
. shines always-where are many fine lakes-
where game is plenty."
While the savage was speaking, two more ap-
peared, leading horses. He who had spoken,
lifted Helen in his arms and placed her upon
one of the-animals, and the other performed the
same service for Adelaide.
The former, who had somewhat recovered her
presence of mind, now besought their captors in
the most moving'terms to suffer them to return

home in safety ; but she might have spared her
eloquence, for, her words fell upon ears seldom
moved to pity by touching appeals.
With emotions which no pen can describe, she
saw the red sons of the forest mount their horses.
One took the steed upon which she had been
placed, by the bridle, another rode up to her side
to keep her steady in her seat, and to prevent
her from attempting to escape ; two more as-
sumed the same position in relation to Adelaide,
and in this order they struck into the forest,
slowly ate first, but increasing their speed as the
fair captives became inured to the motions. of
the horses.
Adelaide still continuing to utter piercing
cries, the savage who rode by her side sternly
bade her'be quiet, and pointed significantly to
his scalping-knife. The poor girl shuddered,
and her fears were still more keenly excited.
Knowing that her outcries arose unheard by
those who.would gladly assist them, Helen en-
treated her to be silent (since resistance was
useless), and submit passively to her fate,
" God," she added, " is able to protect us in
-all places. Our friends will surely attempt our'
rescue."
Although our heroine struggled to comfort
her companion and hide her own fears, her sufr,
ferings were not the less intense. ,She beheld
before her a long and tedious journey, and all
the horrors of captivity 5 and finally, doubtless,
a death of whose agonies she shuddered to think.
She perceived at a glance, that their captors'did
not belong to any of the neighboring tribes, and
she was not long in concluding that they were
Camanches, a nation of whose prowess she had
heard much. They were as numerous as the
leaves of the forest, and bold and warlike in
their habits. She had, on many occasions, heard
the governor and St. Dennis talk of their daring
exploits, and of their cruelties ; but little did she
dream  at that time of ever falling into thelf
hands. She felt assured (providing they were
really Camanches) that they would cross the
Mississippi before morning, and then pursue
their journey in a north-western direction.
Helen was correct in her conjectures. After
going forward ,about an hour, they halted oi
the banks of the river. The horses were taken
over in a flat-boat, and they passed over in a
canoe. " It is singular," said Helen, "that they
shpuld have a flat-boat. It is not the kind of
craft they make use of, and they manage it rather
awkwai-dly."

THE WfTE ROVER.


TIm WHITE ROVER.

"It is one they have stolen from our people,
ly," 'replied Adelaide. " They steal horses,
ii hy should'theynot appropriate other things
opilonging to them, to their own use ?"
After we re-commence our journey upon the
'hprside,' added Helen, in a whisper, while
were crossing.the river, " endeavor by every
lnj xiious expedient tq leave some indications
ije have passed along. When occasion of-
*rrp portions of your scarf, or handker-
f or ribbons upon your bonnet, gloves--
apything to mark the course we may take; for
%e ass red all such indications will be sought for
with eagerness by those who may attempt to
follow us."
owthoughtful of you," replied her com-
pan on. YI will follow your instructions. And
_  vol d contrive to iang:this green ribbon
tupon the branch of a tree, it could scarcely fail
'tQ uttragt attention, and Pierre Moran would
know it, am sure, When he learns what our fate
has been he will shoulder his doubie-barrelled
ride, andforests and lakes, mountains and run-
-    rivers will not be able to stop him. He is
an experienced woodsman, and can follow a
- -ike a bloodhound. More than one of these-
av : + s re doomed if he takes their trail.
Mdedltrifle will speak ae than once, and
s'tl ..says it never cracks ii vain, for his
a  iserring "
h  rt  ou do not love Pierre," returned Helen,
ng daly, though the smile cost her a severe
frt
I love him now, Helen," replied Adelaide.
'And while Pierre is upon the trail, Adelaide,
where do you think the White Rover will be I"
a elen.
} 01u enough! !Ah, they will' both follow
exclaimed Adelaide, in a more hopeful
tones eased with this new idea; and our hero-
ta y of comfort in seeing her friend thus
" y; father, too, is, skilled in wood craft. His
wounds are healed, and he will never remain
nie ily at.home while we are in the power of
savages: But there is one thing which I had
no thohgt of ?how will Pierre Moran and
en i Delcroix learn our sad story ?"
1         -'

" By some means, assuredly," answered Helen,
with a sigh.
" Ah, you sigh, my dear mademoiselle ; you
see that it is impossible that either of them
should learn anything in relation to our fate.
We shall perish in the wilderness ;" and Ade-
laide wept afresh.
"Exercise more fortitude, my companion in
affliction," said Helen, mildly. " Do not despair.
Whatever our sufferings may be, let us remem-
ber that, repinings or self-reproaches will not
avail us anything. Patience, fortitude, courage,
and watchfulness are the qualities that we are
called upon to exercise, and the only traits of
character worthy of us at present, or that can
serve us in this emergency. Set the example
for me, Adelaide. Let me see how strong your
heart is ; how much noble heroism you possess,"
"Dear Helen !" exclaimed Adelaide, "that
noble heroism which you speak of, you display
in your own character. Your gentle admoni-
tions bring me to my senses. It -was myself
that was the author of your misfortunes, and yet
I am the first to repine. Forgive me, my friend,
and in future I will strive to emulate your heroic
conduct.".
In a short time the river was safely passed.
The captives were again placed upon the horses,
and the whole patty moved on in the same order
as before, in a north-western direction, as Helen
had anticipated; but they went forward at much
greater speed.
It was a long and dreadful night to the cap-
[tves. Though reared in a new country, they
had never been subject to hardship, yet often in
peril. Their powers of endurance were tested
to the utmost., . They were forced to ride through
a tract of country still encumbered with its pri
meval forests, sometimes lying in gentle swells,
often broken and rugged, and cut up by small
streams, traversed by lonely valleys, and not
unfrequently rendered pleasant'by an unclouded
moon, and before morning the fair captives were
far from New Orleans. Leaving them to pursue
their dreary way through the trackless wilder-
ness, we will now turn our attention to other
characters.

CHAVgER Xiii.

THE SECRET AGENT-THE DISCOVERY.

AT the time of the abduction of Mesdemoiselle
Helen and Adelaide, de Bienville was sitting in
his study in earnest conversation with a person-
age whom we have not yet introduced to the
reader, and who is worthy of some description.
He was a man just in the prime of life, and
rather above the medium, .size. His features
were regular, and somewhat stern in their ex-
pression; the eyes dark, deep-set and piercing ;
the forehead high, and the perceptive faculties
strongly marked. The formation of the mouth
expressed much determination of character and
firmness of purpose. 1e was obviously a man
who had seen much of I fe, and one who would
not shrink from danger  hen convinced that he
was pursuing the path o duty.
" Boisbriant," said the governor, "I am glad
to' see you. I have been much perplexed since
your absence, and now  erhaps you can advise
me how to act. What othis Indian alliance ?"
" Since I saw you," eplied Boisbriant, "I
have passed through the territories of the most
powerful and most to b dreaded tribes of Indi-
ans. No matter what di guise I have assumed,
or how I have obtained ny information, or how
many hair-breadth escapes I have had, suffice it
that I have learned about this 'dangerous move-
ment among the red men. There is danger be-
fore ui. The French colony is threatened with
destruction."

" Can you inform me who is the leader of this
hostile demonstration ?" asked 'de. .Bienville,
earnestly.
" Onalaska-nost commonly called Red-Shoe
-the Chickasaw chief," answered Boisbriant,
promptly.
"Do-you know whether the slaves have really
joined in this movement, or more, properly,
whether they intend to rise against their masters
when the Indians attack the different settle-
ments ?"
'" That is truly their intention, your excellen-
cy," replied Boisbriant.
" Will you do me the favor to read this," said,
the governor,.taking the scroll of birchen bark
from the desk, which Henri had sent by La
Glorieuse.
Boisbriant read the missive with great appar-
ent interest.
" Should you say that the writer of those lines
speaks the truth ?" asked delBienville, anxiously.
"Most undoubtedly. With me the name of
the writer would be a sufficient guarantee ,of the
entire truthfulness of every word," returned Bois-
briant, without hesitation.
" You have doubtless heard of the young man's
arrest, imprisonment, trial, condemnation, &amp;. ?"
continued his excellency.
" I have," said Boisbriant, drily.


62

THE WHITE ROVER.

"And what do you think of it ?" faltered the Louisiana than men give him credit for. Suffice
governor. .                                it that he is very useful to me, consequently to
"That it was a most wicked affair from be- you, and the whole colony ; and he is a man
ginning to end" said Boisbriant, decidedly. who can-keep a secret. We have met often,
What is your opinion of Captain Lesage ?" and we shall meet again. He has dared much
resumed his excellency.                   peril, and is ready to risk his life again for his
" That-he deserves hanging as much as ever a countrymen ; and yet men do not mistrust that
man dig!" retorted the secret agent of de Bien  there is one tie to bind him to the race .of man-
ville, promptly.                          kind. I saw him to-day in the forest, and learned
"'Is it possible that you really regard the from him the particulars of Henri Delcroix's
young man as wholly innocent ?" added the arrest'and escape, and some things that would
governor, musingly.                       make the ears of Lesage tingle."
"Entirely so. Perhaps you will think me   " You tell me strange things," said his excel-
hasty in my decision, but I attribute the whole lency. ".Do you know Henri personally ?"
affair to the agency of Lesage. fI grant that the  ' " I know something of him by means of Pierre
evidence against the White Rover was seemingly Moran and the Indians, much more by seeing
conclusive, and that ydu acted as most other and observing him often, and by a knowledge of
conscientious men would have done ; but you his conduct on several occasions ; but I never
were all'wrong. Lesage is a villain, and you exchanged a word with him, or at least since he
will find it so. I have excellent reasons for be. was a mere boy. But nevertheless, rest assured
lieving that he is plotting with M. Hubert, the that I know him well."
king's commissary, for your recall."        " Come to me again with de Noyan and St.
"I thank you for your candor, Boisbriant. I Ange, and we will discuss this matter at our
feel a strange interest in Henri, and- I am glad leisure, and take such steps as may' be deemed
tp hear aman like yourself speak in his favor. expedient in order to do justice to all parties,"
In regard to Lesage, I shall keep a watchful eye replied de Bienville ; and Boisbriant withdrew.
upon him."                                         '          *     *        "
"Do the same by the commissary," added   "Alice," said Louis Ridelle to his wife, "I
disbriant.                               feel quite restored to health. I think I shall
They shall both be looked after."       venture into the woods to-morrow. I can't live
 The office of the commissary is a very pleas- away from the forest, you know."
Mt one,":added the secret agent, with a smile.  "The force of habit is strong," replied Ma-
IIe watches the king's officers in this colony, dame Ridelle, with a sigh. " I wish, Louis, you
but w ho will watch him ?"                 could content yourself at home until -these In-
' A&amp;nd' keep the' ministry assured of his hon- diau troubles are over."
esy  rejoined his excellency, in the same am-  M. Ridelle made no reply, but appeared
biguous' manner.                          thoughtful.
"As he does of yours," said Boisbriant, ironi-  "It is time for Adelaide to return," said Ma-
- ca1ly. "And, by the way, it has come to my dame Ridelle, at length.
knowledge that he has written a long letter to " Where is she gone ?" asked her husband.
6 ministry recently, and your name occurs in  "She and Mademoiselle Helen went away
it more than once. It will be well for your ex- together."
celleley to remember that M. Hubert and this  "I hope they have notegone far. Which way
Captain Lesage are on the most intimate terms. did they go ?"
Whn two sach rogues get' together, some mis-  " Up the river, towards the cypress grove."
Chief is;being deliberated. ,Before I leave you. "That was very imprudent. It is no time for
I st not forget to speak of one other individ- girls to. be out. I am sorry they went. It is
nti   o   Moran."                        quite .dark now."
O'  ow hind, then ?" exclaimed de Bien-  " I have been thinking about them for the last
vil e, quickly.                            half hour," replied Madame Riddle. "To tell
Wisttiant smiled.                      the truth, I feel uneasy about :them. I fear
There are fewnmen in, Louisiana that I do something has happened.":
not know. Pierre Moran is a true and tried   "I hope not, Alice. Perhaps I had better
heart. He knows much more of the affairs of take my rifle and go after them," returned

d'elle.

1
F"
,
4
t
ii
e

THE WHIT

His good wife did not oppose his design; and
so Ridelle took his rifle and left the house, fol-
lowing the course which she had indicated as
having been taken by tl-e young girls.
After he had been gone a short time, Madame
Ridelle opened the door and looked anxiously
out, in the hope of seeing the object of her so-
licitude approaching. But she saw nothing save
the clear blue sky, and the dim outlines of the
surrounding forest. When she had gazed long
and attentively, she was in the act of closing the
door, when she perceived a folded paper lying
near the threshold. .She stooped and secured
it, and 'impelled by a pardonable curiosity,
opened and read its contents.
It was the note which Helen had received
from Henri. The fears of Madame Ridelle sub-
sided.
" If the girls are with Henri and Pierre, they
are safe," she said to herself.
After the lapse of half an-hour, Louis Ridelle
returned alone. His wife immediately showed
him the note, remarking as she did so, that she'

presumed they were in no great danger.
"So it would seem," replied Louis, with a
smile.
Another half hour passed. Both Ridelle and
his wife arose often and went to the door; but
the same blue expanse met their gaze, the same
dark outline of forest.
"This suspense is growing painful to me !"
exclaimed Ridelle, at length. " Something has
happened to the girls. Adelaide was never ab-
sent at this late hour before. I will walk to the
spot indicated in the note."
"I think you had better, Louis, for I don't
.feel right," replied his spouse, in a tone betraying
much anxiety.
Ridelle took his rifle and left the house with
more haste than before. With a foreboding
sense of some new misfortune, he walked rapidly
towards the cypress grove, and soon stood within,
the sombre shade of the identical tree where the
fair mesdemoiselle had sat and watched the set-
ting sun.
He called upon the names of Adelaide and
Helen, softly at first, and then more loudly.. But
the sweet voices of the maidens gave baek no
response.. The loved names were only repeated
in mocking echoes. Riddle walked along the
margin of the wood, still iterating the names of
the young ladies, but with no better success.
The idea now occurred to him that both had
possibly gone to. the governor's residence, and

'E ROVER.                             63
that he should either find or hear from them
there.
Accordingly he hastened thither without de-
lay. He learned that they were not there, and
that Mademoiselle Helen had not been at home
since dark. Louis hurried back to his own
house, still buoyed up by the hope that they had
already returned. The door of his dwelling was
open, and Alice stood upon the steps.
"Have they come ?" asked.Ridelle, hastily.
"No, Louis ; have you not-seen them ?"
"No, wife; I can find no traces of them. I
have been to the forest, called them in a loud
voice, and searched all along the woods skirting
that part of the town. .I have been to the gov-
ernor's residence, and  Mademoiselle Helen
has not been there since dark," replied Louis.
" Bring me the lantern, wife, and I will go to the
woods once more. I scarcely know how to ac-
count for my sensations, but my heart is full of
the most painful apprehensions, Make haste,
Alice."
Large tears stood in the eyes of Madame Ri-
delle, as she placed the lantern in the eager
hands of her husband.
"Don't weep, wife ; my fears may be ground-
less, after all," continued Louis. Seizing the
lantern he ran to the orest with a speed that
bore testimony to the extent of his fears. When
he had reached the cypress tree which he be-
lieved was mentioned in the note, he held the
light near the earth and examined it attentively.
With the ready tact of a veteran woodsman, he
discovered the prints of human feet in the dis
placed moss and leaves, upon the bent grass and
birchens.
" This is the impress of a female foot-small
and daintily formed-Mademoiselle Helen's, or
my good Adelaide's. They evidently sat 'here
upon this mossy mound. It is easy for one who
has followed an Indian trail to discriminate be-
tween the light, small footstep of a woman,' ai1
the large, heavy step of a man."
The forester paused, and held the lantern1still
closer to the ground.
" Ha 1" he exclaimed, "here is a track never
made by the dainty feet of Adelaide or Helen.
The toes incline in, and the heels out;- the owner
of both wore moccasins, and was an Indian.
Just Heaven ! I shudder to think of the fate  f
my poor girl, and my sweet friend and beneface
tress. Here are more Indian tracks; and here
are some footprints which do not turn in-a
white man with moccasins on, doubtless. Where
were Pierre and Henri ?"

R


THE WHITE ROVER.

Louis Iilelle ceased, overpowered by his em
tions. Recovering his -self-possession, he r
asme4:
On this spot are signs of a slight struggle
.the poor things tried to escape. Vain attemp
one of those strong red hands were sufficient
subdue thefeeble strength of half a dozen suc
girls. But{what is here i horse tracks, as I liv
The dear lassies are being borne swiftly away t
the Indian country at this moment. And wh
may this be I a small bracelet which Mademo
sell elen wore.upon her pretty arm. In tI
name ,of Heaven, where were Pierre and Hen
a4 this time ! I ask again ?" exclaimed Ridell
frantically,
hopeope" he continued, solemnly, "they ha
ro agegey in this matter. And yet thehote wi
from-Henri, and Pierre's name was Imentione
mOit,by his consent and approval, most likel
It ishad enough to have my dear girl torn fro:
me, borne 1 know not whither ; but it adds
double poignancy to my grief to be obliged 1
suspect two such men of such cruelty and doub
Stealing."
After tracking for a short distance the hors(
thtad bprne away his earthly treasure, Lou
dielle .adly returned to his now desolate hom
4llepale, tearful and trembling, waited h
co   g-.".         .
Bear yourself heroically," said the foreste
sorrowfully. "Our dear child and our love
elen have been -arried away.by the Indians
ane Ridelle lifted her hands to heave
ipgqp eckless grief, and then fell senseless in:
rbs     d.s arms.
Do zot sink under this cruel blow," add(
as his wife slowly openedher eyes. " M
own heart feels as desolate as yours, Alice ; I
b aye, or itwill break. It is a tinie for actio
V  *    i ie to give 'way to useless grief."
ous j to think that our darling is thi
wlly~otnra fromus !"
"I'know it, wife; it comes home to me wit
terribleforce."
"And where were Pierre Moran and Hen
eleoi   " asked Madame Ridelle, with star
lpg earpestnessa
.,hage asked myself that question man
$m   . within the last half hour, Alice ; but
__ y t answered it yet ;nor can I answer
111till do no good. Time will clear u
tie :ystery, aml, explain all that seems dal
"Wey can't be guilty; no, no! Louis, thn

o- cannot be guilty !" exclaimed Aice, wild with
e- grief.
"Be quiet, wife," ,said Louis, soothingly. "I
le. must now go, and inform the governor of what.
t; has happened to his sweet ward."
to   " Don't tell him about the letter," replied Al-
eh ice, with an imploring look. "It might make
e ! them think less kindly of Henri."
to   " I will try and act for the best, Alice," replied
at the forester, as he left his now solitary cabin.
i- * Louis rang violently at the door of the gov-
ce ernor's mansion.-
ri   " Tell the governor that Louis Ridelle would
e, speak with him immediately," he said, in a husky
voice, to the servant who appeared in answer to
id the bell.
as   " His excellency is about retiring," replied the
d servant.
y.   " I care not. I must see him, even if he were
m  already in bed and asleep."
a    Awed by the imperative manner of the forester
to and his evident excitement, the servant carried
le his message to the governor without delay.
In a few moments Louis. stood face to face
es with de Bienville.:
is " I come to you the bearer of bad news," fal-
e. tered Ridelle. " Helen, your ward, and any bene-
is factress, has-"
" What has happened to her ?" exclaimed the
r, governor, impatiently. -
cd " She and my daughter have been carried off
." by the Indians."
en   De Bienville grew very pale.
to " When did this happen ?" he asked, quickly.
." This very night."-
xd "Tell me the particulars so far as you know
ly them," added the governor.
be    The forester related the manner. in which they
n, had left the house, suppressing the fact that there
had been a previous appointment by Henri.
us " And have you no knowledge of their object
in going to the forest at so late an hour ?"
th   Ridelle was much confused by this question,
and his confusion did not escape the prying
ri glance of de Bienville.
t-   "It was not very late, your excellency. The
sun had not yet gone down when they left the
ay house," stammered Louis.
I . " There is something you would conceal from
it, me, Monsieur Ridelle. I must know every par-
ip ticular in order that I may know how to act. I
rk command you, no, I entreat you,.to tll nJs.ate
Was there not, some previous appointees  s&amp;
ey was there not a note or something ofthate
.in the affair I"

J

5
f
"F
t
7
i

THE WHIT

The-honest forester could evade the governor
no longer, and,he answered with some hesitation:
" There was a note, your excellency."
"Did you see it, or have you got it ?" de-
manded de Bienville.
" I have got it," said Ridelle.
" To whom was it directe -?"
" To Helen-your ward."
" Give it to me instantly, Monsieur Ridelle.
I have a right to know everything that relates to
her," added the-governor, somewhat sternly.
With a sorrowful heart the forester drew the
note from his pocket where he had placed it after
its perusal, and put it, into the trembling hand of
the governor.
De Bienville's brow grew dark and stormy as
he read it.
" The knave, the double villain !" he exclaim-
ed, angrily, stamping violently upon the floor.
" Would that he had been hanged before this
wickedness had been consummated."
Then turning sternly to the forester, he said,
in a reproachful voice:
" Do you affect not to understand all this,
Monsieur Ridelle ? Are you so blind that you
cannot see whose hand has brought this sore
calamity upon us ? Tell me no more of the in-
nocence of that young dissembler.   He is guilty
-guilty as-"
De Bienville checked himself.
""This note is in Delcroix's hand-writing
Monsieur Ridelle, is it not ?" he asked.
"I am forced to confess-"that it is," answered
Louis.
"tIt is the same as that upon the birchen scroll
and he acknowledges that'to be his," added the
governor.
"It's too true, your excellency," replied th
forester, sadly.
"I have recently been striving to convince
myself that Lesage is a villain; but this affai
cannot well be laid upon the shoulders of Lesage
as broad as they are. This is undoubtedly th
chirography of the Rover. Stay, I will compar
it with some of his writing that I have in m
desk."         %   '           -
The governor produced the scroll he had re
ceived from Henri, and compared the tw
together.
"I can detect no difference, Monsieur Ridelle
he said, after looking at"the characters attentivel
" There is possibly something about this y{
to be discovered," added the forester. " The
is still a chance for Pierre and Henri to b
inocent."

[E ~ROVER.                              65
" I hope so, most sincerely. My poor, poor
Helen ! . I loved her, Monsieur Ridelle, as well
as though she had been my own child. Her
amiable disposition, her beauty, her many grace-
ful and endearing ways, have entirely won my
love. This is a severe blow to me. Alas, and
for you, also, my friend. But what shall be
done ?"
" I must take to the trail and follow the dear
girls until I f1nd them, or die in the attempt. I
am an old woodsman, your excellency, and there
is no living thing in the forest that I fear, whether
it be savage, or wild beast. Yes," he continued,
with increasing energy, " I shall go after them,
and if they have suffered wrong at the hand of
any white man, that man shall die ; I, Louis
Ridelle say it, and will say it until I make my
word good."
" Noble heart !" exclaimed de Bienville.
" Heaven, I feel assured, will reward your efforts
with success. But you shall not go alone. I
will give you as many men as you choose, to be
under your command."
" I thank you," replied the forester, " but I do
not want them.   One experienced hunter is
worth a whole army of raw soldiers on the trail.
They wont do ; they would do more harm than
good. Trust the whole matter to me. A father's
love will not sleep, and will leave no means un-
tried to rescue his darling."
,  I do, and will trust it all to you," said the
governor, earnestly, "and feel that I could not
1 entrust the important business to better 'hands.
I know that you will not be idle or inactre;
, for a daughter's safety claims all° your energies
e of body and mind. Iftyou want arms, imiuni-
tion, or men, come to me, and all shall be at
e your command."
As nothing further could be said or 'done in
e relation to the unhappy affair, the forester took
r leave of the governor to make preparations for
, following the abductors of his daughter. Upon
e his way to his cabin, he met Captains Lesage.
e He was hurrying past him, when the captain
y addressed him:
"Good evening, Monsieur Ilidelle. Whither
- away so fast "
o    "Excuse me, captain. I have urgent business
to attend to at this time," replied Louis.
," "My dear friend, you seem afflicted. What
y. has happened ?" exclaimed the captain, in tones
et denoting the deepest interest.
re " My Glaughter, captain-my daughter has-"
ed " Speak, Monsieur Ridelle ! Tell me what

x
r
i


happ ted to MademoiselleAdelaide?" cried
ge earnesy._
$ 6 8heha been seized by the Indians and car-
rte4 away,' added theforester, looking search-
7 y     a  ge.
s: &amp;cr1Dieu!IIIs it possible Y!,ou curdle my
blood with horr1'" exclaimed the, captain,.with,
wel acted sincerity. "How long since this sad
occurrece l'he added, apparently astounded at
whathis ears had heard.
This ery night," said Louis.
S4z ;yowell assured that the savages;'have
1 seedrobibed you of your fair girl,?" continued
in the sa ne sympathizing, anjpus tone..
gone, and Mademoiselle Lerowe-has
sbe4tle same uhappyfate."    .
Io !' exclagied the captain, recoiling with
r       2r_ ol you but jest. The savages dare
nota nn  it an act of such uncalled-for cruelty.
ii--.saitd  [onsieyr Ridelle, your intelligence
seasmEI°oresk e some horrible nightmare I We,
hi indeed fallen upon troublous times."
ig this interview the forester had watched
tksfP  - es of Ins geattentively, nd hisswell
-  4 surise and horrorhad its effect upon him
x   diselerite   d..
from the-desepestrecesesa of my
e       aid the uaptgin in that o  subdued,,
c ;i4 9 eWhich hecould, simulate so well.
# 74$l  happen that they shuod both go to
S 'atthe hour: ofevening, when it is so
ven      to venturethere1"
a     said Louis, evasively.
r aelazcholr,' added Lgsage.I
strangeFthought has just occurred to me,"
'         #T   nmsing tone, "but I fain would,
i's   { t rT  governor ward, it is supposed,
+a ibnt  ,6 partial to that misguided youth but
i  i   fron the hands of justice., Think

you, MonsieurRidelle, that she .went to the for-
est to.inethi?"
" It is'possible," said the forester.
"I hope, Monsieur,,Ilidelle, that there has
been fair play-that the Rover knows no more
of this melancholy transaction than'he.should.
It is possible that I am speaking to one of that
person's best friends; but if I am,:I really can-
not help it. I beg your pardon, but I truly can-
not altogether repress my emotions, more -espe-
cially as Isee by your own manner that you
have your suspicions. Yes, you cannot disguise
it; you have suspicions, and I know which way
tbhey point. I sympathize with you deeply; and
am ready to assist you all in my power. Think
I can, in some measure, understand the feelings
of a kind and devoted parent under such a dis-
pensation as youahare been called to suffer.- My
emotions;are getting the better-I-I--excuse
my weakness, but my feelings towards the author
of this unparalleled outrage are far from pacific
and forgiving. :I ought to exercise; Christian
charity, but, by all the saints in the calendar, I
can't do it I. Good night, friend Ridelle, good
night. , Iwill see, the governor, and something
shall be done immediately.".
(captain Lesage wiped his eyes, grasped the
hilt of his swordfiercely, and strode away.
He left the forester standing in the, street,
quite confounded'at the exhibition 6f so much
eloquence and sympathy. - He resumed his
homeward way, absorbed in thought. Just as-
he entered his own door, he exclaimed, half
aloud :
" Hag, :the fellow! he's too sympathizing.
His heart isn't apt to overflow so suddenly. The
captain has either been serving the devil lately,
pris going to immediately ;. I mu'st, find out
which it is."

"I A  weary of staying here with these sava-
ges," said Pierre Moran, upon the morning suc-
ceeding the events just related.
" I confess I ain not greatly pleased with hav-
ing my movements so much restrained," replied
the Rover.
"Let us:leave our red friends, then, for a few
hours, and walk towards New Orleans," added
the hunter.
" The proposal suits me well," answered Hen-
ri. "I long to look once more upon the spot
containing the object of niy love,"
"You have expressed my own emotion," said
Pierre. "Ldok i the sun is just trembling upon
the rim of the horizon. A snart walk of an hour
will take us to the margin of the woodbordering
New Orleans, from whence we may see tiOe
dwellings which contain these so dear to us.
And yet;when I think of it, so near an approach
to the town may be attended with danger to
both, more particularly to-you."
"-Brave mien and true lovers heed no danger,"
answered the Rover, with a smile. " Take your
rifle and let us:go.".
The two foresters walked rapidly towards the
new settlement.
I°bpe the day will6bmie," resumed Henri,
"'henIihay approachNew Orleansas an lion-
est man should-without a single stain upon,
r.'aime and character."

" That day will most surely arriv my friend,.
replied Moran. " I feel in my hea that itill.
Lesage will'yet be exposed, and sHuer thep+j-"
alty ever-due to wickedness. If humaniujustic#
does not reach him, God's justice will"
"My spirit grows sad within me," said the
Rover, "as we approach-New Orleans. am
forget-the bitter wrong 'that.has; been doni
there. 'It makes my blood burn with indigna
tion and shame: to think:of it. The period q.wl
come when I will prove to the whole colony that
I despise, a traitor, and love the French.
"I doubt it not, gallant Rover," responded
Pierre:
The lengthened strides .of the foresters-soon
brought them to the borders of New O9leus.
"Beneath this eypress,"=resumedBenrisadly,
" I once met Helen Lerowe, by the merest ac-
dent; but I have reason- to suppose that it a
a pleasurable meeting ,to both. I know, itVas
to me.. While standing exactly here where p
do now, Lesagey like a bird of.evil omengpagg
us. I saw him look at Helen and me.-I well
remember how his keen, snaky, Agraymhey;gwa
fastened upon me during that brief itorya'of
time which he occupied: in passing.,  Jd a
presentiment even then, that that ma i as  my,
enemy.   Time has ;proved :theg preseCi pat
sooth. Pierre -Moran, I, ,rdentlydloig :Qr

CHAPTER XIV.
SUCCESSFUL vILLANY-TO 'r RESCUE.

W   T- # RO VI


THE WHITE ROVER                   t9

time when I can meet him face to face, and pun-
ish him for his sia.
The Rover utter   e concluding sentence in
a voice of deep feeling.
"It was with the greatest difficulty that I could
refrain from spurning him with my foot when he
dared to stand up before me and offer me money
to take the life ofa fellow-man!" exclaimed Mo-
ran. " Had I known you and him as I now do,
most bitterly should he have suffered for his in-
solence. The moment I saw you-when you
hurled aside the savages, and scattered the blaz-
ing brands to the winds, I knew you; for the
'lying chief' had described you well-his only
tribute to truth in a long time, probably. I will
now step'forward a little to get a glimpse of
Monsieur Ridelle's house. If I see any of the
towns-people stirring, I will tell you, and if all
is quiet we can perhaps venture a little nearer."
Pierre Moran left the Rover sitting beneath
the 'cypress, and advanced towards the town.
In a moment he called to his comrade, saying:
"I can see Monsieur Ridelle's. All is quiet;
none of the towns-folks seem. to be on the ui
ve. They little think we are so fear, I dare
Villain! robber ! seducer of innocence "
ered a deep,,stern voice, "there is one who is
o1 thaq:vive.-one who suspects you-one who,
knows you'are near;" and then Louis:Ridelle,
deadlypale, and fearfully excited, stepped forth
trmi behind the trunk of a large sycamore.
t   idtat'" exclaimed the bold hunter, aston-
islid 'eyond measure.'
rIll'feign  astonishment! consummate
h 0iei ,'1" continued Ridelle, with increasing
vehemeree. "Bring her back, restore her to
" Monsieur Ridelle," began Pierre, much em-
b *aAse hy his unaceountable conduct.
" Give  o backdny-daughter. and throw off
the #nt arat oncei or I may forget that it is a
crifidenkt tthe life of a human being," added
"Iheiow nothing of your'daughter, Monsieur
RieIle. E pel q iinklyi and tell me what has
hapyetedAtbdelaide 1" cried the hunter, con-
viiedthat-hisfriend was laboring' under some
amd fl mistakee
htl1(*yo   'ever see this note before " said
I dH, avcastieally, holding upathe folded pa-
p     tftlen s nani xboa it.
" I     ' nF liIieirrej more and more be-
wilded i   halhili'erd and a*i.

S   " Why, should you add falsehood to the crime
of robbing a parent of his child ?" rejoined Louis.
"I had cherished a secret hope that you were
innocent, and that all might. yet be explained;
but your own words just now undeceive my too
credulous heart. Pierre Moran, this insult, this
r great wrong, can only be washed out in blood."
" Here is some fatal mistake,'\ said the Rover,
coming forward and standing between Ridelle
and Moran.
"And you, probably, never saw this before ?"
added the former, holding up the note once more.-
I protest that I never did, to my knowledge,"
replied Henri, calmly.
Mon Dieu 1" groaned Louis. "What hardi-
libod !"
"oMonsieur Ridelle, will you permit me to
look at that paper ." said Henri.
Ridelle threw it contemptuously at his feet,
and watched the Rover's countenance as he
read it.
" M.Ridelle,"said our hero, handing the paper
to Pierre, 1I most solemnly assure you that I
did not write a single letter of that note, and I
call heaven and earth to witness to my words."
" Tell me what meaning I shall attach to the
strange words of Pierre Moran which he uttered
when he first stood upon that knoll and looked
towards the cabin now robbed of its dearest
inmate ?"
"I meant that escaping from prison as I had
so recently done by his assistance, that all our,
movements might be watched by those anxious
to work my ruin. We approached the town
with caution, for the purpose of looking upon
the spot rendered dear to us by those we love.,
The remarks of our mutual. friend, Moran, had
relation only to the peculiar circumstances in
which we are placed. Neither of us entertained
the remotest idea that aught unfortunate had
befallen Adelaide-the fair girl so highly es-
teemed by us all."
The bereaved forester sat down-upon the earth
and covered his face with.his hands.
" I know not what to think," he said, sadly.
"Perhaps I have been too hasty:;; if I have, you
will forgive a heart-broken man :when I tell you
that Adelaide has been stolen from me;. and
that Helen Lerowe has shared the same fate."
The White Rover staggered beneath the terri-
ble intelligence; while Pierre Moran stood ak if
transfixed. to the. earth, with pale cheek aid
staring eye.

"I forgive you, friend Ridelle," said Pierre, at
length,in a mournful voice, " and now nake haste
to tell me all you know of this strange affair."
" Quick, quick, for I burn with impatience !"
cried Henri, while the blood rushed back to his
face again, and his eyes flashed with indignation.
The forester related all that he knew of the
abduction from beginning to end, including his
interview with the governor, and with Lesage.
" Can you not see," exclaimed the Rover, im-
patiently, "that this is the work of Lesage ?
Fools ! fools ! are ye all, not to perceive it.
Where is the trail ? Let us not waste time, but
pursue the abductors to the death.; Come, Ri-
delle, be a man ; up and away. Now, Pierre,
is the time to prove our claims to woodcraft."
"Right, brave boy, right. Shake hands with
me, both of you, to assure me of your forgive-
ness !" exclaimed Ridelle.
"With all my heart and soul," said Pierre.
"Here is a hand that never betrayed you, and
never will."
"And here is another that will never be idle
until your daughter is restored to -your arms,"
added Henri.
" I thank you, my brave lad.. I was mad to
suspect you for a moment. And pow I am
ready for the trail. Here is where the dear
girls sat beneath this tree, expecting your foot,
steps every moment, no doubt; and were ex-
pecting you when their captors sprang to their
side and secured them. The trail starts here
and winds off in that direction. I came here to
follow it alone, determined never to return with-
out my darling."
"I perceive that,the party who stole the maid-
ens were mounted," remarked Pierre, while .he
examined the ground attentively.
"cAnd by the particular shape of the hoof, I
- learn that they were mounted upon horses young
and strong," said the Rover.
"By the tracks here beneath the cypress," re-
sumed Pierre, "I know that the active agents in
this transaction were Indians ; for here are foot-
prints which toe in."
5

"I have discovered tracks which do Not toe
in," returned the Rover, quickly.
" Sufficient evidence," rejoined Pierre, " that
the enterprise was conducted by a white man."
"I am glad you have made these discoveries,"
said Louis. " I had already arrived at the same
conclusions. I am fortunate indeed to have
such assistants. There is one thing more to be
considered ; can you tell what tribe of Indians
left this trail ?"
"I think I shall be able to tell you after fol-
lowing the trail one hour," said Henri.  '.
" The trail bends towards the Mississippi," re-
turned Ridelle.
The little but determined party now moved
slowly along the trail, noticing the faintest i-
prints left by horses'. feet.
"As many as six horses have passed over
this ground," observed the hunter.
" I was about to make the same remark," said
Henri.
As the trail was very plain, the foresters now
quickened their pace and in less than an hour
reached the place where the party crossed the
river.
There was now a consultatipn inregard to-the
manner in which they should reach the opposite
shore.. To construct a raft with their hatchets
competent to secure them a safe passage-acrog.
the Father of Waters, would not be an easy task,;
and so Ridelle volunteered to retrace his steps
along the river's bank until-he should meet with
some boatman or reach the town, where :he
could easily procure a canoe.
Without loss of time he hurried away to put
his resolution in practice.
Pierre sat;down on the bank of the river; but
Henri was too impatient and restless to remain
a. moment at rest, ana so he walked away-by
himself to indulge in his own melancholy
thoughts without being seen by a human being.
Scarcely conscious which way he went, he con-
tinued his walk for some time, and as it hap.
pened towards the town.


THE WHITE ROVER.


d1tx,"at leng  .abated his pace, and finally
 n upon the trunk of a fallen birch. He
e    oishceely assunied that position when he was
at e saw a human figure passing swiftly
Q noft e trees. The Rover sprang from his
t and-darting onward with the rapidity of a
Sde s'aodfill in the man's 'path.
W     lh avb"siet at last, Captain Lesage," said
thp Rover, with, a biter smile. "I have ever
"&amp;erd th at' this happiness was in reserve for
:  of'fVtieur" recoiled precipitately three
dfi p es. He did not speak, for he could
i  sst rpi'se and consternation were too
allow him to call his vocal organs into-
i .~~ '"We stood and gazed fixedly at Henri,
S    pilte cheekiand treamulous limbs.
T     eife1ee captain, that this meeting is un-
expected to you, and ihea you by surprises'
You may well tremble to meet the man whose
lif you foully conspired against, and whom you
perjured yourself to convict of a capital crime.
TIhus far, Heaven in its impartial justice has
ovrturued many of youth schemes, and I hope
it will inits mercy, baffle that one in which you
arenow engaged. Do- not affect an astonish-
ment you do not feel, captain, for with me it
will vail nothing. I am well persuaded that{
tietwo mnising maidens have been abducted by

your agency; but I do mest solemnly assure
you-and you may write it down in your mem-
ory as something certain-that yon' will never
live to reap ithe reward which you earnestly
hoped to when planning this new piece of vil-
lany. Helen Lerowe scorns you with her whole
soul, and were she a thousand miles from here
in the very heart of a savage country, she would
still spurn you from her with unutterable con-
tempt."
" This insolence shall not be forgotten !" ex-
claimed Lesge, passion at length getting the
better of his fears.
"Be careful that you tempt not my mood !"
retorted Henri. " I may forget myself, and
throw you into the waters of that darkly;flowing
river: Who could tell the' tale of your death, if
some days from hence your body should be
found among the dank weeds many miles below
here ?"'
" Remember, vain and impudent boaster, that
I am armed," returned the captain, laying his
hand upon his sword. " Iknow how to use this
weapon," -he added, with a show of courage
which he did not really feel.
"I care not for your swordI To me it is'but
a feeble reed; for I have right and justice upon
my side, and without these the best-tempered
steel loses its keen edge. The polished blades

I

I

THE Will

of Toledo are net formidable when wielded by
men who pervert truth and trample honor under
their feet, when matched with those who fight in
efence of innocence and virtue."
" What dos all this idle nonsense portend ?".
cried Lesage. "Out of my path, and let me
pass!"
" Do not stir," returned they Rover, impres-
sively, " do not stir as much as a single inch, un-
til I have done with you."
"This u paralleled effrontery surpasses all
my powers o endurance I" exclaimed the captain.
" Who but contemptible cowards would hire a
man to slay a fellow-creature in cool blood.
Think of it, captain, and tear those badges
which tell your rank, from your shoulders. I
shall live to expose your villany yet."
"But you will never live to wed Helen Le-
rowe !" retorted Lesage, whose courage was mo-
mentarily rising as he saw no absolute hostile
demonstrations on the part of Henri.
" Speak not of her, Lesage. Do not repeat
often the name of Helen Lerowe. She is too
pure for lips like yours to speak of."
"'leale yourself with that delusive idea, if you
will; but know, insolent adventurer, that she,
loves me."
"Loves you !" exclaimed Henri, disdainfully.
Ay, son of nobody, I had it from her own
lips," returned Lesage, with a sneer.
"I believe you uttef a falsehood. You might
reiterate that a thousand times, and I would not
credit the talc," replied Henri.
The captainwas now thoroughly aroused.
"The governor's ward would not link her des-
tiny with a condemned felon, without name and-
without parentage. Perliaps you never thought
of thist:;,but she has; and so has the governor.
No ! no 1" continued the captain, with a mock-
ing laugh, f Helen 4towe, the fairest maiden in
Louisianawillnever wed the son of nobody,"
The nerves of the Rover could bear no more.
Before the- captain had anticipated the move-
ment enough to draw his sword, he had sprung
towards him and struck him down with his
clenched hand, and spurned him with his foot.
Stung to madness by the punishment, Lesage
recovered his feet as quickly as possible, and
matdp furious passes at Henri with his sudord ;
but the latter parried them with his tomahawk,
which he wielded with a dexterity only acquired
by long association with the Indians. In a mo-
ment the eagtain's weapon was broken at the
a to .

TE ROVER.               .
"I will not cheat the hangman," said Hen4,
as Lesage stood disarmed before him, and at hia
mercy. " I will leave you to a punishment far
greater than any I can now inflict; for it is not
impious to believe, that heaven has already
marked you for a fearful doom. Go, and re'
member that I shall ever be upon your track, to
detect your villanies and expose your wicked!
ness."
With these words Henri walked away. He
had gone but a few paces when he heard the re-
port of a pistol, and a ball whistled by his head.
He turned quickly towards the spot where he
had left Lesage, and saw him runningas fast at
he was able. The Rover. levelled his rifle, but
changed his mind, and did not fire,
" Not now," he said to himself, "not now.
Let me wait till my innocence is established, and
then I shall see hira sinking to his proper place."
"It would be a waste of powder and ball"
said a voice. Henri looked towards the speaker
and beheld a man in the prime of life, and wea-
ing the garb of a forester.
"You have -done well to spare him, young=
man I" he added. " The measure ,of his wiel~~
edness is not yet full. Let him go on:for a sho
time longer, ,and his career of crime will be
consummated."
" You know Lesage, then ?" said Henri, aston-
ished at what he heard.
"I know him well. I, have observed hi.
long, and when other eyes failed to detect his
villanies. The day of his triumph is well nigh
spent; the night of his disgrace and ignominy
approaches. , I have heard of the abduction +t
the maidens. I am well.assured thatyou, had gpo
agency in it ; neither had Pierre Moran."
" It would seem that you know me also?"
plied the Rover.
" Believe me, Monsieur Deleroix, tha thee
are but few I do not know in the French colony,'
answered the stranger, whom the reader win
recognize as Boisbriant, the secret agent of d
Bienville.
"Should I be deemed impertinent wereIh Y
ask with whom I am conversing ?" askedor
hero, much interested in the stranger.
"I am one who flits silently from place
place ; one who is known by many names, and
familiar with many disguises ; one who se
much,;Vand is little seen,.and who Snows mue,
and is little known," replied Boisbriant.
" You ar~e the secret agent of ide Bienville,"
said Henri, With A smile.

CHAPTER XV.
A SnuRES OF UNXPECiTht INTERVIEWS.


THE WHITE ROVER.                 78

fHow knew you, young' man, 'that he had a
s~eret agent!" asked Boisbriant.
By'the shierest accident I have arrived at that
iowledge; but from it source that never did and
iever trill bettay you or your plans," returned'
the Rover.'
-" I 'have seen'de Bienville, and I have read the:
writingyou sent him. You stated the truth-and
nothing more," added Boisbriant.
"' I thank you for yout'good"opinion. It pro-
dices a"thrill of unspeakable pleasure to hear
ote,iwho has had an opportunity of knowing the
truth; speak' in any favor I" exclaimed Henri, in
'gratified tone.'                      '
"I have declared your itinocence in the pies-
once of the governor; but I fear the abduction
of the maidens, and" the fact that a'note pur-
portingto be from you was fa nd, has seriously
ahaken his faith in your 'integrity," added the
agent..
"Alas, my friend, Iseem' destined to be con-
tiually misunderstood," rejoined Henri.
"You now propose, doubtless, to go on the,
"{ il and rescne the maidens.   Iwill not attempt
to dissuade'you from the undertaking, for it is
praisewodthyj ad right But you igay safely
ekon me among your friends. While you are
gone, I shall not be idle. While 'I serve my
I dcof .tiy, I will also serve you. Lesage
ie closely watched. - Let him do what he'
'there will be eyes ever upon him. No
if  in far away, there will still b-those
erobservant of his actions. I hav   me
Y =fp.ung man, and it shall be used iis ur
* ealiopportunity offers. The-slaven
1dRetiSnyour missive shall be arrested, t.
getherwith several others. This step, I am in
rges; il hold the rebellion among the blacks
i11check, and dampen the ardor of Red-Shoe."
hdhickaiaws Land Choctaws will'soon be
i Welina sanguinary war," replied Henri.
s1 e     ';,jutlging from  present appearances,
a    hst be the result, which will 'defer any'
hostile movement on the part of the Chickasaws
f~idom   ine, and this will be favorable to the
safetyf the colony."
"You are'right, and you will have ample time
reseie themaidens, or at least to learn what
e rf e'i'ty liate been, before the blow 'is
kc.L$The colony will then need the aid of,
6Wariand"influende, and I doubt not it will
hiv both"
_   lf; andif my life is needed to seal my
ovefr my country, it aha'll be freely gien?
'said Hesiri, earnestly.

" We must part now," added Boisbriant, "bat
we shall meet again ; yea, more than once, and
in places and under circumstances when least
expected, perhaps. Bear up under adversity
like a man; keep a bold heart in your bosom,
and present a bold front to your enemies. Per-
severance and virtue must triumph at last over
all obstacles."
"Before we part," said the Rover, earnestly,
"may I ask if we have often met before ; if ever,
where, and when ?",
"All ingood time ; it matters not now. Lin-
ger no longer here. Remember that your Helen
is in captivity, and torn from you by the arts of
a, villain. Follow her captors like a tireless
hound. Prsue them with the cunning of a ser-
pent, and a perseverance no toil can discourage,
and no danger appal.",
With these words Boisbriant waved his hand
and walked away, and in a few seconds was out
of sight.
The Rover hastened back to the spot where
he had left Pierre. When he reached the mar-
gin of the river, he saw a canoe containing four
persons approaching from the direction of New
Orleans. Before it touched the shore, Henri
recognized Madame Mablois, La Glorieuse, Ette
Actal, and Ridelle.
"'I am indeed happy to see you, Madame Ma-
blois !" exclaimed the Rover, warmly embracing
the Frenchwoman. " And you, also, fair daugh-
ter of the Sun," he added, extending his hand
to the princess.
" My dear Henri," said Madame Mablois, "I
have suffered much on your account: but I thank
Heaven that I see you at liberty, and out of im-
mediate danger."
"And I must not forget to thank youand the
princess for the liberty I enjoy. It is to you that
.I am indebted for my freedom, as well as to the
two gallant hearts who were the direct agents in
my escape."
Madame Mablois took Henri by the arm end
drew him gently from his companions.
' You have known me from     your child-
hood, Henri," she said with feeling, "and you.
know that I cherish for you a mother's regard.
I know whither you are now going. For my'
sake be careful of your own safety. Do not ex-
pose yourself to unnecessary danger."
"And why should I cling to life with such
tenacity'" he answered. f -Has existence been
so precious to me hitherto'that should *ish to:
preserve  . it so e.rrefully. Were I like many o't'

ereit might be different. Remember, dear Ma-
dame Mablois-you who have supplied the place
of a mother to me with such fidelity-that I'am
a nameless youth. I am called Henri Delcroix ;
but why I was thus named,'I know not. Upon
this  bject I am daily growing more .sensitive.
It gives me pain to reflect upon what I may pos-
sibly be. Is it not in your power, my more than
friend, to clear up this mystery? I.feel that it is;
and I do most earnestly entreat of 'you to tell
me the worst. Anything is better than this un-
certainty ; even an humiliating truth' is prefera-
ble to suspense so painful."
"Wait yet a little longer, Henri. If .I know
aught of your parentage, rest assured that I keep
it from you for the best of reasons. You know
me too well to imagine that I would withhold
any intelligence which would be for:your inter-
est. Try and feel that I am acting like a -rea-
sonable and discreet friend, and anxiousto make
you happy, and better your condition in life.
This much I will say ; you need not be ashamed
of the blood that circulates in your veins ; it
would not disgrace a prince. Have faith in
Heaven's justice, and in me. The night of your
sorrow, is passing, and the sun of your prosperity
and happiness is already rising; even now it
trembles on the eastern verge."
Mablois paused.  Her bosom- swelled- with-
pride. She grasped the Rover's arm, and spoke
with thrilling earnestness.
" Henri, you are not what you may have
thought yourself to be. No, no ! You will yet
be rankedwith the best blood of the land. Your
proud and lofty spirit will yet rise to its proper
place. As the sun of Lesage goes down, yours
will go up towards the zenith. Be not despond-
ing. In your attempts to save the fair and be-
loved Helen from the fate to which a villain has
doomed her, I again repeat be careful of your
own life ; for you must live to triumph over all
your enemies. Yes, you must, and I feel and
know that you will."
"Your words, dearest madame, inspire me
with a new hope. My pulses beat with a newj
life, my blood flows with a more genial warmth.
Henceforth I will struggle manfully with my
fate. I will try to be all that you can wish.
Fear not foe me. All will be well."
" Nobly poken, my brave boy. Now my heart
beats more lightly than your own. Let us re-
turn to our friends ; they wait for us."
While   ablois ,was speaking, the sound of
horses' feet were heard, and in a momeflt twelve
mounted warriors made their appearance.

Henri and Pierre grasped their weapons, bu4
relinquished them again when they perceived
that the new comers were a party of Natch'
warriors. -j
"What means this, La Glorieuse ?" asked the:
Rover.
" Those are some of our bravest warriors tht
I sent for two days ago. If the White Rover
wants them, they are ready to go on the trail
and fight his enemies," replied the princess
"This is kind, noble, generous La Glorieus_,
I am indeed grateful. I will consult with n5i
friends in regard to the matter."
After some consultation with Pierre and IRl-
delle, it was agreed'that they shouldset forwap'
without the Indians ; and if nothing were heard -
from them at the expiration of several days, the
warriors might take the trail and follow. In
this way, being well mounted, they might over-
take them in season to be of much use. /Matters
being thus arranged to the satisfaction of all
parties, they took leave. of their kind friends
the renegade set them across the river in the
birchen canoe, and they started on the trail with
a determined zeal which no obstacles could
daunt.
" It is as I had expected," observed the' Rover;
"the trail tends towards the Sabine river, and
the countryof the far-famed Camanches. I per
ceive that there- is much danger and hardship
before us. Not only shall we be obliged to cord
tend with the subtle devices of Lesage, bit t6
dare the vengeance of the most formidable 69ol1
red nations." 
"I am willing to dare dangers ten times s
imminent," returned Moran, firmly. "I am re-
solved to penetrate to the very heart of the ene-
mies' country in defence of innocence and
beauty. y shudder to think of the sufferings of
the poor girls. I cannot well restrain my im-
patience."
" Here is something," said Louis Ridelle to
Henri, "which I found beneath the cypress; but
I forgot to mention it before. It has been worn
upon the dainty arm of one whose name I need
not pronounce."
"Helen's bracelet !" exclaimed the Rover.
"'Give it to me,, friend Ridelle. I will wear it
next my heart until she is again .restored to
liberty."
Henri pressed the golden band to his lips, and
then placed it carefully in his bosom.
" And here is something," observed Pierre,
picking a small glove- from the ground, " which

THE  1 'IIL4' RtVLR.

I
t
f
Y


TEE WHITE ROVER.

Mu wil recognize, Monsieur Ridelle. It has
een worn upon the dear hand of Adelaide, and
Isolemnly protest that it shall -never leave my
possession until I restore it Tnto its rightful
9wner."
"With allies like you, I can scarcely fail to re.
coyer my lost darling,",said Louis, with emotion.
The trailbeingfresh,, the foresters had little
qr no dificulty in following it.  When. the
~adovs of night fell again, they were many
es from New Orleans, in the boundless wil-
ss, known but little save to Indian feet.
"I am an old forester;, remarked $he father
ofAdelaide, " an$ my better judgment tells me
that;we must haltand rest. If we exert ourselves
ta much to-daywe shall be less able to dis-
cbargetheduties of the morrow. We taust not
r get that along journey is before us, and that
urs is a task that cannot be accomplished in
wenty-four hours,"
"You.Are right," replied Pierre, ' though I
feel as if  my liibs would never tire, and my
strength never fail. But reason admonishes me
that we anyst act like men, and notlike children.
Zw l1go and shoot a deer while you kindle a
TheRover and Ridelle had -soon gathered a
p-e of dry fagots. ,The former drew the ball
ofi one.barrel of his rifle, and ignited the'com-
_  tible:material by burning some powder in the
1ek.The pile was soon in ablaze, and the bright
Sanies want hissing and darting up ~ into the
thatt time gate abounded in that pait
=,'the country, for the flowing stream of civiliza-

tion had not then turned its powerful current in
that direction,
Before the expiration of half ai hour, the
hunter had returned with the most delicate por-
tions of a fat buck upon his shoulders. It was
roasted at the roaring fire, and eaten in sil ke-
as a duty,:and not as a pleasure.
" Being the oldest of the party," said Ridelle,
" though perhaps not the wisest and most expe-
rienced, I hope to be pardoned for making a few
suggestions for the general safety, and for the
success of our undertaking. - I think it advisable
that one of us should ever be on the watel,
while the other two sleep. It seems to me thit
we should commit a great and fatal error if i a
all slept at once."
" Your advice is timely, excellent," replied the
Rover. " I feel that wemust indeed exercise a
ceaseless vigilance-a sleepless watchfulness, in
thus penetrating to the heart of an enemy's
country."
'After some further conversation upon the sub-
ject, it was unanimously resolved that they
should watch by turns, during the night, until
their undertaking was bought to a successful
or an unsuccessful close. Henri and Pierre in-
sisted upon discharging- this necessary duty un-
assisted; but to this }proposition Ridelle would
by no means agree.
These preliminaries being satisfactorily ar.
ranged, Ridelle and Pierre laid down in their
blankets. The White Rover, withdrawing a few
paces from the fire, with his rifle in his hand
kept tireless watch over his companions.

WinH the consent of the gentle reader, we
will now follow the fortunes of the captive
maidens.
It was the night of the third day of their
weary pilgrimage towards the country of the
Camanches. The mesdemoiselles were alone in
a small lodge, which had been prepared for
them nightly, while the Indians kept watch
without.
"It seems strange to me," said Helen, "that
we have been treated with so little rigor during
our captivity. The savages are not wont to ex-
hibit so much humanity. We have been per-
mitted to rest for the greater portion of two
nights. A lodge has been ereeted for us, and
we have had the satisfaction of being entirely
alone during the time allowed'us for sleep. Now
there is certainly something unaccountable in
all this."
"I have'thought of the subject more than
once," replied Adelaide, "and it still remains
unexplained."
"1Would it be unreasonable to suppose that
Lesage had something to do with this transac-
tion ?"-asked-Helen, seriously.
"You reiterate my own thoughts, Helen," re-
turned Adelaide. "Perhaps I wrong the cap-
taim, but it does seem to me that my suspicions
are not without foundation. It is very certain

that Henri and Pierre have had no agency in
our misfortunes."
" I have not thought ill of them for a moment,"
responded Helen.
"Our treatment is far too gentle," resumd
Adelaide, "to correspond with my ideas of Xn4
dian character. I fear that they are but the
agents of other minds."
" Then may we shudder at the fate before us,"
slid Mademoiselle Helen. "Savages are some-
times moved to mercy, but there are those who
show none."
Both of the mesdemoiselles paused, and were
occupied with their own gloomy thoughts.
Some deerskins, sewed together with thongs,
hung up before the entrance to the lodge. Tihe r
were put gently aside -at that, moinent, and a
painted visage became visible. While with li$i
left hand the intruder held aside the skins, he
motioned themto silence with hit right. 'Ihe
girls drew back in alarm. The intruder stppd
into the lodge, and the skins fell back again.
"Do not be alarmed," he said, ii a whisper,
and in t  e purest French. "I am your friend-
I have come to save you, or 'perish in the
attempt."
"If-you have indeed come to saves tswe ow
you a deep debt of gratitude," said Helen.
" Hush, mademoiselle !" continued the srai-

CHAPTER XVI.
THE UNKNOWN DISINTERESTED HERO'S OFFER OF ASSISTANCE.

L

,, /


THE WHITE ROVER.

gert "A single word spoken above a whisper
may cost me my life. The red fiends are sleep-
ing on all sides of us. I have literally stepped
over their bodies for the purpose of speaking a
single word to you. Be discreet, mesdemoiselles,
I entreat of you."
The interior of the lodge was quite dark.
The stranger's face could not be distinctly seen;
and it was with difficulty that his low-whispered
words could be beard and understood. But
then he spoke of the danger he had incurred for
their sakes, and expressed a determination to
save them, they began to feel that a ray of light
had at length fallen upon their darkened way.
The stranger drew nearer,'and laid his finger
gentle, yet warningly, upon Adelaide's arm, and
resumed, in the same suppressed whispers:
"Ihave hoverednear you for two days-wit-
nessed your sufferings--your danger-your he-
roic fortitude, .and have sworn to save you.
But your savage captors are continually on the
alert-. I have watched daily and nightly for an
opportunity to speak to you-to bid you not
degpi-but to bear up yet p little-longer under
your sufferings, while I can plan and effect your
aeTo-night-in this disguise, in order net,
to    ite immediate suspicions, providing,
r =atul4be seen-I have braved all the peril of
t=:"  step, forithe purpose of breathing to you,
q mesdemoiselle, a word- of hope. I have
f ..!  ed untilyourcaptors slept, and have step-
ler;their sleeping,forms to enter this lodge."
s 1thousand heartfelt thanks," said Helen.
vt:  e ask if you can tell us the object
the ndianshave .in view, and what our
'y=   l  $ k ly tobe, providing we do not escape ?"
~stngersighed.
u  t me, fair maidens. My soul turns
Sk; nel rad with horror from the contem-
,4y    Fot at  b ect
dZ=   you akn  or can form any reasonable.
,uupon the subject, I implore you to
=&amp;hreservedly," replied Helen.
r 'Y ould seem," whispered the stranger.
ofte offs ~
"tohedrench settlers at Natchito-
tw;Indian maidens of uncom-
mabeautyand treated them with great indig-
1 awillrot shock your ears with the detaIls
o     e  a         it that when
afew wek, 'loeofthegii-l
p± ,aid aresenf th5slf, shamed and de-
dn related the, o
O   tio -  amanIhes. vowed yen-
fea~noneKL4reuh.,Merkowiurrthese

facts, you may justly suppose that your capture
is an act of retaliation."
"The saints preserve us from such a fate 1"
exclaimed Helen, with a shudder of horror.
"Most fervently I respond to the pr  ,"
continued the intrepid stranger. " As far
am concerned, I need no further incentive to
action than that inspired by your sufferings,
your youth, beauty, and heroism."
"But could you not aid us more effectually by
returning to New Orleans? You would have
only to repeat the story of our captivity in order
to raise the means of our deliverance. The gov-
ernor would put you at the head of five hundred
men, if need be, to follow us into the Indian
country; men who would fight bravely, nor fear
hardship."
" You forget, fair mademoiselle," rejoined the
unknown, "that the Camanches are as numerous-
as the leaves  . on the trees. They can bring
five thousan warriors into the field, yea, more
than that n mber. What then would a few sol-
diers, unacquainted with wood-craft, do in the
centre of su  a powerful nation? Reflect, mad-
emoiselle."
" There is rnich reason in your statements, I
confess, monsieur," replied Helen.
" Your only hope of rescue," resumed the un-;
'Inown, "must be placed in the.daring and cun-
ning of some practised woodsman, who can fol-
low a trail, and is perfectly conversant with In-
dian habits. Cunning can effect more for, you
than strength ; yes, more than the governor's
whole army. One thing more I must speak of
in connection with this subject, To-night I saw
the Indians. preparing, buffalo skins to wrap,
about the horses' feet to, render the trail imper-
ceptible, and baffle pursuit. With the precau-:
tions which:they will undoubtedly take, it will
defy the ingenuity of the keenest woodsman to
trce you further. Were I to go back to New
-Orleans, even I, experienced as I am in Indian,
arts, might fail to follow you further than here.
Remember that daily and nightly, during your
weary pilgrimage, there is one, friendly heart
near you,.laying plans for your deliverance.
shall follow you untirin-ly, and rely, upon. it, I
will leave a trail that others can follow, aundthat
your friends will not fail to discover. So you
see, mesdemoiselles, that'I shall be able to serve
you ipome way... Bttitarry too long. Iwin ll
attempt to visit you to- orrow night in, t4,ot
?manner, when we will try and devise sone me ne
for yur escapelEHark IIthought I

1
!'

THE WHIT

.,               s
;.
_        .

l
A   t ,"
f      5

Indian stirring without. This interview has al-
-ready been protracted to a dangerous length.
Adieu-fair captive-adieu."
Helen followed him mechanically to the door
of the lodge, raised the skins and looked out
afteg*im, and saw him glide along with breath-
less silence. The unconscious figures of several
Camanches were asleep upon the ground in front
of the lodge. She saw him pause, look cau-
tiously around upon the sleepers, and then actu-
ally step over their bodies and walk silently and
swiftly away. His person was soon hidden from
view by the trees. Helen still gazed aftet him,
while her heart was agitated by various emo-
tions ; but she saw only the wild-wood scenery,
the long, sombre shadows of the trees, the pale
moon, the twinkling stars, the blue skies, and
the sleeping figures.    '     .    '
She let the skins fall back to tieir place, and
stole back to the side of Adelaide, who had not
moved from her seat.
" What are you thinking of? Why so gloomy
and silent ?" asked Helen, embracing her com-
panion, tenderly.
"I am thinking of many, many things, sweet
friend, and I scarcely know what makes me so
sad. Have you forgotten the stranger's story of
the Indian maidens ?" said Adelaide, in reply.
Helen was silent, but her fair person was con-
vulsed with, horror ; and her companion was
conscious of the nervous tremors that shook her
frame at the mention of the Indian girls.
" Adelaide," she said, recovering herself, " why
is not this the hour of escape ! The savages are
sleeping soundly. No watchful eyes save our
Heavenly Father's are upon us. Why can we
not leave this lodge and glide cautiously away
in the deep, wild, forest, even as that stranger
has done ?. What more favorable opportunity
than this ?"
" Your words are reasonable. Let us fly,"
replied Adelaide, arising hastily.
"A singular thought occurs to me, Adelaide !
Why did not this generous, self-sacrificing, and
fearless stranger urge us to fly with him imme-
diately, and not have waited for a more favor-
able opportunity? Does this not strike you as
being very extraordinary'?"
"It does ; but perhaps he waits for some friends
to join him, or has some more safe and feasible
plan of escape in his mind," answered Mademoi-
selle Adelaide.
" The explanation you offer is plausible, but
d~es not wholly satisfy me. Dear friend, shall

'E ROVER.                                77
we indeed attempt to escape, while our captors
are sleeping ?" said Helen.
Adelaide put aside the deerskins and'looked
anxiously forth. The r9d men were still locked
in slumber.
" I think we might venture to try," she replied,
stepping back to the side of Helen. " We cani
but fail, and I know we cannot render our con-
dition more deplorable. My mind is full of
vague and fearful suspicions, also, that I have
not yet expressed. I feel more than ever anxious
to escape from these savage beings, if it be only
to perish in the wilderness, of hunger, and thirst,
and weariness. Is not any death preferable to
that fate which is in reserve for us. They may
follow us, it is true, but we are light of footgpnd
we can    along without scarcely bending dawn
the grass, or disturbing the leaves. And then
we can take precautions that will defy them to
trace a trail so faint as that we will leave, in our
flight. We will seek out the most impassable
places. We will pursue our way along the ranges
of hills, where the soil is hard and unyielding to
steps like ours. We will not break a twig from
the smallest bush; we will not roll a stoie from
its place ; we will not displace the" moss upon
the knolls, nor the sticks that lie -on the ground,
In flying from a fate so dreadful, we shall leave
a way as trackless as the flight, of the birds
through the air."
" Even so, Adelaide. God will not abandon
us in the hour of trial," responded Helen. - "He
will strengthen our limbs when they falter. He
will fortify our hearts with courage'when about
to despair. He will feed us when we are hungry,
and give us water when we. are sinking with
thirst. He clothes the lilies; He cares for the
birds ; He watches over the innocent. I am
ready. Let us walk forth softly as shadows, and
if they wake not, there remains for us chance
for liberty."
" How I tremble," said Adelaide. " My heart
beats like a bird trying to escape from his cave.
Stop an instant-let me recover myself a little.
Now I am calm. Lift the skins once more. Are
they sleeping yet ?"
" One has partly arisen," whispered Helen,
trembling with excitement. " He yawns and sinks
back again. The blessed virgin be praised !
He relapses into sleep. Let me collect ?nyself a
little. Come, my dear Adelaide-tep softly-
breathe gently--be courageon~-.-bear yourself
firmly-now-now I"
Helen had lifted the deerskins that covered


78x                            THEWHI
the lodge door, and made one timid step for-
ward, when one ofbthe Camanche warriors turned
$   aver, moaned, uttered some incoherent words,
arose upon his elbow, and finally to a sitting
posture. The captives' retreated precipitately
into the lodge, and fell weeping intoeach other's
arms;- With emotions of bitter disappointment no
pen can describe. In a short time Adelaide
looked cautiously forth again. The savage had
not resumed the 'recumbent position, but'was
still sitting upright.
"We must abandon the attempt for to-night,"
said our heroine, with a sigh. " It were not best
to make an abortive trial, for the consequences
would be that weshould be more closely watched,
an,. erhaps bound at night; a precaution which
oitd. preclude the possibility of. a future
Attempt."
when the first keen pangs of disappointment
had passed (for the pangs of baffled hope are
indeed poignant), Helen strove by every effort
in her power to appear outwardly calm, in order
$o revive the sinking spirits of her companion.
She wiped away her tears, and tried to speak
cheerfully of the future, addin , in conclusion,
A hat the intrepid stranger who had visited
the  s at the risk of ,his life, mightultimately
offset their liberation,
jI do not wish," replied Mademoiselle Ade-
laide, "to give you needless cause of fear, but I
W_11tell you that I have little confidence in this

I,

TE ROVER.

stranger. Possibly it is an act of cruelty to
make such a statement, but I am compelled by
my anxiatypospeak my thoughts freely., Had
I full confidence in this unknown, I should not
have been so eager to escape from our thraldom.
He spoke in whispers, yet I am well assured
that I have heard his voice somewhere, but
where, I cannot now remember."
" Let us not wrong him, my friend, but ob-
serve him well, if another opportunity should
present. There were times while he was speak-
ing when his voice seemed familiar, even to me.
I shall try to think of him as a friend, for he
certainly spoke feelingly, and with apparent sin-
cerity," answered our heroine.
"But there are several things to be explained
in relation to him," resumed Adelaide. "How
did he'arrive at a knowledge of our misfortunes ?
Why does he feel such an interest in unknown
maidens, that he should expose his life to save
them ? A lover, a father, or a brother might
have ventured among the savages to rescue a
beloved object;. but, believe me, very few stran-
gers would do so. I doubt whether this has not
all been preconcerted, and this hero comes by
previous agreement."
" 0, Adelaide !" exclaimed Helen: " I am
not willing to believe that such depravity exists.
Let us not think of it. Try and sleep, that we
may be ready for any opportunity that may be
presented for escape."

. -;

I

THE captives laid their weary limbs upon the
rude couch prepared for them by their captors,
and strove to compose their minds to sleep.
Just as they had sunk into an unquiet slumber,
they were aroused by the movements of the Ca-
manches preparing to resume their wanderings.
The most delicate portions of the buffalo, very
well roasted, were 'set before them, of which they
partook sparingly.
" The Indians seem to be very busy. What
are they doing ?" asked Helen.
" They are wrapping portions of buffalo skin
upon the horses' feet, in the manner predicted by
the unknown," returned Adelaide.
" An ingenious device. Let us exert ourselves
more than ever to leave some signs to indicate
whither our wanderings tend. I will tear my
handkerchief into small pieces, and watch for
opportunities to drop them as we ride forward,"
said Helen.
The maidens were soon- ordered to mount
The party moved on, but in a different order-
in single file-the captives occupying'the centre
of the cavalcade. Both watched with much in-
terest to observe the effect of the new precaution
which had been taken, viz: that of wrapping the
horses' hoofs in- buffalo . skins. They remarked
with much sorrow that the experiment subserved
well the purpose of their captors, as they now

travelled over the firmest ground they could
find, and left but faint traces to mark the'4way
they had passed over.
Helen succeeded in dropping several; pieces of
her handkerchief without being noticed. At
length the quick eyes of one of the Camanches
detected the design. With true Indian addres,
he slid down nearly under his horse's flanks, and
picked up the piece which Belen had dropped,
without dismounting. He shook his head stern-
ly, and threatened her with death if she repeated
the offence.
Whether this menace was seriously made, o
not, it terrified the maidens not a little, and
they desisted from..any further attempts of that
kind at that time.
They did not journey so rapidly as' on the
previous days, on account of the extraordinary
precautions which they were continually ob'serv.
ing to baffle pursuit. On one occasiontliey
travelled several miles in tlhe bed of a bryoo, the
bottom of which was covered with small  nie,
where, of course, no trace of a horse tek
could be left. The hearts of the unfortunate
girls grew hopeless and despairing whe they
beheld such unusual caution. Theygaedinto
each other's faces in mute and wordless grief. It
was some relief to find themselves alone again
when they.had encamped for the-night: Though

CHAPTER XVII.
JOURNEY RESUMED-THE UNKNOWN ONCE ,MORE, NOW BETTEn KNOWN.


80                             THE WHIT
both felt the need of rest, neither could sleep.
Innumerable wild conjectures and undefinable
fears kept them wakeful. Did they lose their
Consciousness for a single instant, some dreadful
phantom suddenly arose before them and broke
the momentary spell. Though they were in
doubt concerning the- stranger, they could not
banish the frightful tale he had told them con-
cerning the Indian maidens.
If that unpleasant subject left their minds, it
was to give place to others quite as dreadful.
Would the stranger visit them again that night?
they asked over and over again.
The eyes of both were turned towards the
entrance of the lodge ; the deerskins were thrust
aside gently as on th  previous night; and the
face of the unknown was revealed. Tile moon
shone brightly, and her silver beams fell full up-
on his features. During the moment of hesita-
ion which followed, both the captives scanned
his, fafe with intense eagerness, and recognized
the features of Hubert, the king's commissary.
But his strange discovery produced different
emotions in the bosoms of the mesdemoiselles.
Adelaise could with difficulty repress a cry of
hermr,'while Helen experienced equal difficulty
nreprssimg a cry of joy.
"If you have recognized him," whispered Ad-
laide, "eep the secret to yourself."
Theking's commissary was in the lodge.
demoiselles," he whispered, "gentle
Anes4.moiselles, awake ; up, and let us away;
t       lere.ja;not a moment to be lost I"
4len arose quickly from the recumbent posi-
ti on  but=Adelaide with less alacrity.
hat do-yousay?".asked our heroine.
"The moment of escape has come-up--hur-
ry leus; fly."
But;how a' asked Adelaide, in a faint and
aiost inaudible whisper.
"The Camanches are buried in deepest slum-
#r9s.,We wlU glide from the lodge like spectres
o  thenight-silently, cautiously, breathlessly,
and, thankG94 hopefdly 1" replied Hubert.
"No !no I letus stay!" ,whispered Adelaide
.,Helen's ear;;but Helen was toq much excited
by the prospect of'immediate escape to fully
_ pretendd her meaning.; nordid she under.
0 4 hr when she bade her .not divulge the se-
i   hsie ad recognized the stranger.
° h d # seen the commissary many times
$t Jieyceliengy, tho governor; but sheknew
~thts~$~hisisaracter, and now regarded him
y en    s-tfniend which he/ professed to be.

I

TE ROVER.

" We are ready to go," said Helen. '"Come
Adelaide, give me your hand-don't tremble so
-be firm, and the danger will soon be passed."
"Silently, silently, mesdemoiselles; follow me
-step lightly," said Hubert, opening the door of
the lodge.
Helen had grasped Adelaide's hand and now
drew her along after the commissary.
"Back, girls ! back I" whispered the latter, re-
treating with alarming precipitation to the ex-
treme part of the lodge.
" Go and look cautiously out," said the com-
missary to Helen, apparently much agitated.
Our fair heroine obeyed, and perceived to her
horror that one of the savages had arisen from
the ground, and was heaping together the de-
caying brands of the fire. She repeated the un-
welcome intelligence to Hubert, who seemed the
picture of dismay.
" Discovery, to me, would be certain death,"
he said; "but the consciousness that I should
perish in the cause of youth and beauty, would
serve to soften down the last moments of life,
and shed a sweet and heavenly light on the
opening scenes of the world to come. Be good'
enough to look again, mademoiselle."
When our heroine looked forth again, the fire,
once more revived by the addition of fresh fuel,
was sending up a bright flame. The Indian
produced his pipe, refilled it slowly, lit it, and
commenced smoking. Helen watched his move.
ments with a feeling of anxiety and impatience
to be appreciated only by those in a similar sit-
uation.
The commissary grasped the trembling hand
of Adelaide, and, assured her that all might yet
be well-that he possibly might yet be spared to
be instrumental in their liberation. But Ade-
laide withdrew her hand and trembled more
violently.-
Helen maintained her position near the door,
The Camanehe, reclining upon his elbow, with
his feet thrust to the fire, watched the stars, and
smoked his pipe calmly. His fixed andmedita-
tive gaze seemed to indicate that he was think-
ing of the happy hunting grounds and the
shadowy people who -live :there and pursue
shadowy game.
The night was beautifully serene. The moon
never appeared to ,move more softly through
the pathless skies, or to look more placidly down
upon the earth. The stars hadcaught the samce
delightful mood, and shed their; quiet beauty
upon ithe night. Nowinds set the.vergntleave

THE WHIT

in motion, or sighed through the branches of the
pine rand sycamore.
"How sweet to be at liberty, and with Henri,
at such an hour as this," thought Helen. The
reflection was but natural, yet by contrast it
served to heighten her present dreariness.
Most anxiously did she watch the savage,
fearing lest he should possibly arise, approach
the lodge and look in, when the life of the com-
missary would instantly be sacrificed. She ap-
prehended also, that others might awaken and
follow his example, and so cut off all hope of
Hubert and escape. For 'three quarters of an
hour the Camanche enjoyed his pipe, which
seemed an age to Helen. At length he threw
out th'e puffs of snioke with less frequency, and
with decreasing interest. The fire died away in
the bowl of his pipe, and finally went quite out;
the savage closed his eyes, began to nod-roused
up-nodded again-the pipe dropped from his
mouth, and he fell back upon the earth com-

I

pletely overpowered by sleep.
Helen breathedmore freely-watched him a
moment longer, and then reported to the com-
missary.
" The favorable hour has passed," sighed Hu;
bert. "Indians never sleep soundly after this
time. I am forced, by dire necessity, to leave
you till a more propitious moment. I doubt
even, whether I can depart without raising an
alarm. And if Ishould never see you again-
that is, should aught unfortunate befall me this
night-remember that I-have .done my best to
save you; I ask no more than this.' Once more,
sweet mesdemoiselles, adieu."
the commissary ooked cautiously out into
the open air-waved his hand, and the next mo-
ment the captives were alone.
Suddenly there was a deafening cry without.
Helen sprang to the entrance of the lodge and
looked after the commissary. She saw him run-
ning swiftly, pursued by two tall savages; then
she heard the report of fire-arms, saw Hubert fall,
recover his feet and disappear in the forest, still
followed by the Camanches.
" O, Adelaide !" shrieked Helen, "he is wound-
ed--he is down-no, he is up again-he rises, is
lost to view in the woods !"
"9Give yourself no une asiness on his account,'
cried Adelaide, drawing Helen into the lodge.
"Wghat if he should be slain in attempting to
save us !" exclaimed Helen.
1Be calm, dear Helen. Monsier r Hubert is a
villain," said Adelaide, indignantly.

'E ROVER.                              81
"No !" said Helen, gazing into the pale face of
her friend in unutterable astonishment.
" He is the friend and companion of Lesage-
the cause of all our misfortunes," replied Ade-
laide.
" O, this is cruel, Adelaide !" exclaimed Helen.
"Cruel indeed! My sufferings for the last
hour you cannot imagine. Disgust, indignation
and fear have held me in their power by turns
during his stay. I thought that time had ceased
to go onward, and that he would never leave
us," added. Adelaide.
" Has he ever spoken to you, Adelaide ?" ask-
ed Helen, much perplexed.
" Often, often ! He has praised my beauty-
afflrmed that he loved me-that he could not
exist without me."
"And you-"
"Rejected him with contempt, for I read his
purpose well."
"What then, Adelaide ?"
" He had the meanness and audacity to
threaten."
" The friend of Lesage ! Just Heaven ! can
this be true ?" exclaimed Helen.
" True as inspiration itself," replied Adelaide,
firmly. " I warned you, Helen, while he was
here."
"I know you did, and I could not well com-
prehend your meaning. But the Indians fired
at him; how is that ?" asked our heroine.
" All preconcerted, no doubt, Helen.. The
Indians are evidently in his employ, and he did
not intend that we should escape. He wishes to
play the daring and generous hero, in order tp
make an impression in his favor."
"Perhaps you are right," responded , elen.
"I now remember of having. seen him with Le-
sage on several occasions ; and in fact on tIe
day of our abduction. The truth dawns upon
me, Adelaide ; I see the black -villany of the
whole plot."
After some further conversation in relation to
their unhappy situation, the captives completely
exhausted, both in body and mind, sank ito a
profound sleep, and obtained the - most refresh-
ing rest they experienced during their captivity.
They resumed their journey on the following
day in the same manner, and with the eme
precautions that had marked the preceding one.
But Hubert did not make his appearance on
the ensuing night ; neither did het on the night
after ; which circumstance surprited the cap,
tives not a little, and was by no mans regretted.


I

CAPITER XV II
TIM TRAL

. _F t threeis t te winters idowed the trail
thitifi  t &amp;di~btyg btit on the fourth they
f fd~ e ae balled.
Adodge was evidently erected here," re-
i    tked  he over. "By scraping away the
eats carefully, with m hand, I fizd Where the
1dge~pides were diVen dawn."'
-'_i  Wingulhrinstancc of humanity in the
S_   anatidie4 to allow them the favor of a lodge,"
thihk the trail tends ,in this direction," ob-
*e  RedI dellegas he inspected the ground closely.
d, T°"=e sone grass bent down, and the
seli 4  idened by horses' feet. Here
i      r       gan," answered Ridelle-
Icevered the horses' feet with
e n  over.
Ip a          y with hie face lose to the
rouad ti     et ies upon their knee  applied
t            rs    t the task of finding the
aitil   r   h      te Were af fatlt. Th y
,id  go forward i
t= sposed  to take
iirnl course towards the
00
tes. When one, more
oanpanloous, found the trail,
t r 5e)ai e t h e  e a t  k n o w r   to

the others, as they were hot tO ptX a gI'eait di-5
Lance between each other. Having come to this
mutual indefstanding, they proceeded to art in
accordance with'the same.
In a few minutes otir hero was aone. Well
acqttainted with Indian stratageas and habits,
he directed his footsteps toWardS a long ridge of'
low hills on his right. He had gone forward but
a short time after reaching the highlands, when
to his joy he discovered a small object fluttering
upon the ground. He stooped and secured it,
It proved, as the reader has already anticipated,
a portion of Helen's handkerchief, Which she had
dropped to guide the steps of those Who might
attempt her rescue. It was of the finest muslin,
and the Rover would have easily 'recognized it
perhaps, even had he not seen the initials of'
the owner's nane upon it.
We hope the Indulgent reader will not be dis-
posed to smile, when we assert that-Henri press-
ed the precious fragment to his lips ; for it was
indeed precious to hita, not only on account of'
its having been in the possession of the mladen
dearest to his'heart, blt because It would serve
to direct his footsteps towards her.
While the Rover stood gaziit at the bltof
stiff, he heard a sound near him, and uponlook-
iug up, beheld, greatly to-his astotdshment d"
shoe, the Chickasaw chief.,

THE WHITE

"iDo my eyes deceive me ?" exclaimed Henri.
" You see me, my white brother," said Red-
Shoe, laconically.
" And why have you followed us ?" asked the
R-, (r.
"I saw the daughter of the Sun," replied the
chief. " She told me what had happened to the
pale maidens, and how the White Rover was in
trouble, by means of Chef Menteur. I tightened
my belt, took my rifle, and followed the trail."
"Generous chieftain ! you are ,indeed my
friend. I feel that I can never repay this noble
disinterestedness," exclaimed Henri. " And
what of the war with the Choctaws ?" he'added.
immediately.
"1There will be no fighting with them at pres-
ent. We shall be able to punish Chef Menteur
before war breaks out with the Choctaws," re-
plied Red-Shoe.
Henri now called loudly to his companions.
They soon found him, much pleased to learn
that their party had been, strengthened by the
addition of such a noble ally. By the aid of
Red-Shoe they went forward much more rapidly,
for he was very acute in discerning Indian signs.
They were enabled to discover the precise spot
where they took to the bed of the brook, and the
place where they left it; and several fragments
of the handkerchief which had been dropped by
the captives, were also found.
The day passed without any further incident
worthy of note. At night they encamped as
usual. Not feeling inclined to sleep, Henri left
his comrades, and walking some fifty rods from
the encampment, seated himself upon the trunk
of a fallen tree, upon the summit of a small hill.
With so many things to think of, he was soon
lost in the mazes of his own thoughts. We need
not tell the reader of what he thought, -for he'
- will arrive at that by a natural inference. It
may well be supposed that at that time, the
beauties of starlight, and moonlight, had but few
attractions for the Rover.
The sound of horses' feet -approaching at a
leisure pace caused him to look anxiously around.
A single horseman was advancing ; but whether
he was a savage or a white man, Henri at first
was at a loss to know; nor was he fully satis-'
fled on this point until be was addressed.
"A timely meeting," said the horseman.
"We have met before, and recently, if I re-
member rightly," replied Henri, much more sur-
prised than when he had been joined by Red-
Shoe.

ROVER.                                  83
"Yes," answered Bdisbriant, dismounting. "I
am the same you refer to, doubtless. You are
on the trail, I perceive. What luck ?"
" We have followed the trail but too literally--=
done nothing else-found nothing else," replied
the Rover.
"Ah, well-keep up good courage. Perse-
verance accomplishes wonders, sometimes," said
Boisbriant.
am greatly astonished at this meeting,'
returned Henri. " May I aslk what brings you
here ?"
" Certainly-my horse brought me," rejoined
Boisbriant.
" Very true," said the Rover, with a smile.
" May I.presume to ask your object in allowing
yourself to be brought here by your horse ?"
" A good, a commendable one, I hope, Mon-
sieur Delcroix," rejoined the secret agent. "2I
feel an interest 'in the fate of these maidens.
Not only dlo I confess a deep solicitude in regard
to the fate of the captives, but also a-strong de-
sire to unmask as great a villain as, ever walked
upon the face of the wide earth. There are
many other-rhen that Lesage might deceive and
evade, but me he can neither deceive nor evade,
I sympathize with you, young man, in your
sufferings."
I am very, very grateful," replied the Rover,
impressively.
"You perceive, Delcroix, that the freshness of
youth and the fire of early manhood with me
have passed ; from these I have glided by gra-
dations into the maturity of life. -My hairs are
not yet plentifully sprinkled with gray, but they
should be, for I have suffered. Look at me,"
Henri. I have also felt the happiness of recip-
'rocated love. But many years have elapsed
since I last heard the voice of Irene."
" You were disappointed, then ?" asked Henri,
earnestly.
"Cruelly, sadly disappointed I' exclaimed
Boisbriant.
" She was forced to wed another, I suppose,"
remarked the Rover, much interested.
"No; it was not.that. -Irene became iny wife
-loving and beloved. Let me sit down here be-
side you, and IRill tell you something about it;
for the calm beauties of-this night stem to recall
it all to memory. Yes, I wedded the maiden'of
mny choice-a fari -a noble, aid sweet temnrtrd
girl.. That was. twenty years lago, anid wa
twenty years old on the day of our marriage Ir

-        I     *-


THE WHITE ROVER.

was not at that period rich, but possessed of a
competence."It was expensive living in Paris
in the style I wished. In an evil moment I ac.
eepted an office in the infant colony on the banks
of the Mississippi, pleased with the thought that
I should acquire a fortune for my wife and child.
" Thousand idle tales were then afloat in re-
gard to the'facility of amassing riches in this
country, not one of which could be considered
true, or ought to have been thus considered.
Like a; silly fish I swallowed the gilded bait.
Irene was delighted at the idea of visiting a
new country, whose breezes were balm; whose
sunshine was glory; whose forests were orange
trees; whose -stones were gold; whose sands
W0e6,diamonds ; whose springs were fountains
of immortal youth. We planned cottages, man-
sions, summer-houses, arbors, grounds, gardens,
andi .know not what, to grace our imaginary
paradise.,
"sy little daughter was a year ol when we
left the shores of France. After a'short and
pleasant:passage we reached the New World.
jsawkthe gaping mouth of a muddy river, whose
haWks Mere overgrown with dank weeds, in
T." iehiayhiddenfrightfulmonsters/who delight-
s'  .s=swallow men and women at a mouthful.
ftold pt e it was the Mississippi river, that
atered the Eden Iwas seeking.- I stared at the
. like; one awakening from some pleasant
k';as; he stroked his beard and smiled.
'afIs a sweet place,' said the captain.
aye you b en here often V .I asked.
O twice before,' h answered.
"What kindof- monsters are those rolling
solazily among those dank weeds in the mud
=yonder
',Wby, bless your heart, sir, they are nothing
bualligators3'
What ao they subsist upon ?' I asked.
s4"  Iheyused to live upon Indians, but now
feed principally upon Frenchmen. They
rant at all ,hard sto suit. They'll take any-
thing that comes along-pick up a little boy or
;irL'  ngnd then, ord. fullgrown woman of any
color; otseize upon men while bathing. One,
a ge sued manmakes just two bites.'
eg
y  just as I tell you, monsieur.'
.lfetly welcome?
~"     teir conversation with:.tbe captain, I
s}R  b'=tttha Indians were.also greatly to be
s    cliintwg murders were frequetin the

colony. The spell of my delightful dream was-
broken. I felt sad at heart, and one of those
horrible presentiments of coming evil crept
through every fibre of my brain, and made me
stagger with the dread of something that I knew
nothing about.
" De Iberville brother of the governor, and an
old acquaintance, met me at Biloxi. He strove
to infuse new life and courage into my heart,
but it was easy to see that he felt sad himself.
Something was evidently weighing heavily upon
his spirits. Iberville was a noble fellow ; brave,
generous, and high-souled; but there was some
singular mystery connected with his stay in the
colony. ,It was some love affair, which I could
never fully fathom. I entered upon my duties
with what zeal I could, under the circumstances.
" Irene bore up finely under the shock which
we had both received in relation to the new
country. She even affected to be pleased with
her condition; but I knew better. One morning
I left my new home with Iberville, to visit a
small party of emigrants, who had settled upon
the Mississippi river. I kissed Irene and' my
little daughter gaily, telling them I should soon
return. I, observed that Irene looked paler than
usual, and held my hand longer in hers than she
was wont, when she said adieu."  -
Boisbriant 'paused at'this stage of his narra-
tive, overcome by his emotions.
" When I returned," he resumed, " I had no
wife, no child, no home. I found my darling
wife near the river's bank, foully murdered by
the Indians-and scalped-robbed of her long,
beautiful hair, of which I had been so proud.
The body of my daughter could not be found;
but some of its clothes. were discovered in the
river, lodged among the weeds. Its fate was
but too evident; it had been thrown into the
water ! My fintic grief I will not dwell upon.
The cruelty of this blow I will leave wholly to
your imagination. I felt like a crushed and
broken-hearted man, and resolved to return to
France. I shall not soon forget an incident
which transpired previous to my putting this
resolve into execution. It was a light, placid
night like this. Iberville and myself were walk-
ing together.
"'Did you ever have a presentiment V he
asked, with a smile.'
" I replied that I hadone when I first saw the
mouth of the Mississippi river.
"'I have a presentiment now,' said Iberville.'
"' And what is it ' I asked.

S.

THE WHI

'c'Death !' he replied softly, and with an
earnestness I shall never forget.
"' I have observed that something unpleasant
has been preying upon your mind for a long
- time,' I added.
"'It is so, my friend. My sorrow is a secret
which must perish with me,' he replied, mourn-
fully.
It is a love-secret, I presume,' I replied.
"'I acknowledge it; I will tell you this much
and no more: I have a wife and child,' he said,
earnestly.
"' Where ?' I exclaimed.
"That I may not tell you. There are many
and powerful reasons why they are not with
me ; but it was my destiny that this should be,
and I have submitted. Keep my secret, Bois-
briant.' I promised to do this.
"'She's a lovely girl, and is content to be my
wife under any circumstances ;.for she loves me,'
added Iberville.
"'And does de Bienville, your brother, know
aught of this ' I asked.
"'Nothing definitely. He only knows that
my affections are placed upon some object; but
who she is, and where she is, he does not know,
and has too much delicacy to ask what he is
quite sure I do not wish him to know.'
"' I can conceive of no reasons sufficiently
powerful to induce you to keep the facts you
have communicated a secret,' I remarked.
"'My dear Boisbriant, there might possibly
be many reasons for pursuing such a course. It
might even be done to secure a fortune-a vast
fortune-to make my child the inheritor 'of
wealth, and a name, perhaps. Can you-not con-
ceive of something of that kind ?'
"'Certainly,' I replied; 'such things have
- happened more than once or twice. -.But a noble
name your child will assuredly have, if it bear
the name of Iberville.'      '
"'But a noble name without fortune is noth-
ing worth, and serves only to bring its=owner
into contempt'
" Iberville paused, and with folded arms gazed
at the waters of the Mississippi. I heard the
twang of a bow-string, and a low groan from
Iberville. I looked towards him, and saw an
Indian shaft deep buried in his bosom. 'He fell
back1into my arms-looked pleasantly into my
face, despite the torture of his wound, smiled
sweetly, and expired. And thus passed the no-
blest spirit that ever exerted an influence upon
the fortunes of Louisiana. The news of his
6

TE ROVER.
death cast a gloom, over the colony, for hW
manly conduct from first to last had ei'dehtit
him to etery one. I can even now recall tthe
form of de Bienville, kneeling by that aiiuliing
corpse. I have seen many  A stoni heart liake8
with grief; many a daring eye wll with tda;
but I never saw grief like his; for'they had loved'
like David and Jonathan, until the twain°a$'
become as the soul of one man."
Boisbriant ceased.
" Speak on ! speak on I" exclaimed Henri.
"I went back to Paris, and after the lapse dN
a few years returned again to the colony, dr}WW
back to the scene of my sufferings 'bg so n-
strange impulse ; perchance I wished to be nii
the grave of Irene. I have done," added B
briant, sadly.
"Your relation has interested sie desi-y
said Henri.
"No doubt ; true hearts always feel anhis
in the unfortunate. And "now, mybra
you shall hear something still more inter'4,
for I perceive that your mind is in a eimier ')
than usual,and you can hear me less inipatiently?'
"Go on, if you please," said the Rover.'
" What I have to communicate pe,  pa i
captive maidens, and Hube-t, the king }e ui-
missary."
" The commissary!i" exclaimed Henri.
"I have discovered the important fact that he
is even now with the captives."
" Impossible !" cried the Rover.
" Not at all. I will explain. The comenissary
is the accomplice of Lesage. The motives which
actuate him refer wholly to Adelaide; while
those which stimulate Lesage have reference to
Helen. The Camanches are employed by both
the scoundrels. Hubert follows them for the,
purpose of playing the hero. He has formed
the nolfle resolution to aid the mesdemoiselles-to
escape from the Indians, and thus acquire their
confidence. He imagines that by taking this
course, with Adelaide under his protection, filled
with the idea that he is a daring and generous
benefactor, he shall be able to make an impies-
sion on her heart, and thus ultimately effect his
base purpose."
" The villain !" said Henri.
"I have followed the party on horseback, and
being well acquainted with the country of the
Camanches, I overtook them on the second day
of their journey, and have dogged them e'vr
since. The commissary, dressed and mounted
like an Indian, follows them at a safe distance,

,
I


THE WHITE ROVER.

p' estaking long detours to mislead those
w   agge has good reason to suppose. will at-
(pygo follow. At night he has interviews with
b   gian allies, and instructsthem in the part
tey ege to act. He has twice stolen into the
Idrang the night time, in the character of a
nI     ll pd deliverer, ready to sell his life to save
t gf irgaptivecs. ,
"I have watched alb these proceedings with
feelings of indignation scarcely to be repressed
and kt within- bounds. Having learned all
t   ould beof any avail, and being unable to
geo     ishsix Camanches and a white man, I
I    $4den back with hot haste to find you.
le   found you here apparently so calm and
t; pu  f$ul, it carried me, back to other days.
You made me think of Iberville on the night
o ~leg, cand I could not refrain fr m
Vo you of the past, before relating these
do not fret and fume so. Be
e :are on the high road to success.
=earcely fail to effect the object we so
esireto attain."
i .#ou not suppose," asked Henri, as they
S    o 'seek Piere and 1 i4elle, "that Lesage
f     +yon the way to join Hubert V"
y T'he ,ogues have met' by this time;
u w      11 surprise them, my lad-surprise

.r  d'.f
i  V

" And punish such high-handed villany as it
deserves. Let us not lose an instant, monsieur,
but follow the - scoundrels immediately. I can-
not rest while such a scheme of consummate
villany is being enacted. I desire nothing more
earnestly than to stand face to face with that
commissary. Hero indeed.!, If my hands were
-once upon him, he would never wish to play the
heroic benefactor again during his life."
Boisbriant and Pierre Moran met like old
friends. The strange news which the former
had communicated to Henri, was now repeated.
The hunter and Ridele listened with fierce and
scowling brows.
"Lead the way," said Moran, huskily, "lead
the way, and we'll follow."
"It is well spoken,"- added Ridelle. "Let us
press forward to thwart this atrocious wicked-
ness."    -
" orward-forward-upon the trail-no rest
-no s , until the maidens are free !" 'ed
Henri:.
" I am ready, good friends. This is the way,
and may Heaven speed us I" said Boisbriant.
With dark and threatening visages, and minds
firmly fixed upon vengeance,  the foresters fol-
lowed Boisbriant.

CllAPTER XiX.
A MEETING-THE oSAPE.

SEVERAL days had elapsed site the disap-
pearance of the mesdemoisdlles. The night had
already set in.- Two persons were sitting upon
the west bank of the Sabine River.
" You have followed sooner than I had ex-
pected, captain," said one.
"I found it was necessary no time should be
lost, Monsieur Hubert," replied the captain.
" The affair is creating quite an  excitement at
New Orleans; for the girls are highly esteemed
there. "I am suspected, notwithstanding all
our cunning. In fact I met that fire-eater, my
evil genius, and he accnsed me of the abduction
of the maidens, without stopping to mince mat-
ters. ,I owe him another debt, and I will be
sure to pay him."
"Did he do you any personal violence l" ask-
ed Hubert-
" I barely escape with my life."
" Why did you not run him through with your
,word, captain ?"
" Mon Dieu !" I attempted to, but he was more
than a match for me with his tomahawk. He
broke my sword at the hilt, tand then benevo-
lently spared my life for a greater punishment
than that of being genteelly tomahawked"
"For which you thanked him."
"For which I fired my pistol at his head,
rNo sieur-Hubert."    _

"Did you hit him V'
" Hit him ? no! he was not born to be hitibUt
to live to be my ruin. The fates protect hitn, I
believe. Now tell me how- you speed with Ade-
laide. Have you played the hero with success '
"Admirably, admirably,- my .boy! .I har
risked my precious life twice for the sweet m t#
demoiselles-visited them by moonlight-4a~l
them hope-swore to, save them, or die -en
attempt-hinted at the danger I ineur ed;f
their pretty sakes-and of dying in averyhappy
and contented frame of mind while consiousif
such a high purpose. We attempted to fly-the
Indians didn't rest well-one got up-smoked
pipe-looked at the stars and moon-frightened
us-girls trembled-gave myself up for lost-.-
favorable hour passed-left them with melia..
choly forebodings-Indiahs were aroused-pur-
sued me-fired guns-fell-ras supposed to be
wounded-up and ran-and here I am alive
yet."
" Capital! grand! sublime!1 go on, Hubesr"
" To-bightliave fixed on as thehappy pe-
riod of their escape from Indian thraldgm.,The
Camanches will sleep soundly as death itself-
nothing but the last trumpet can'wake them.-
I shall pray earnestly thatHeavenwill, prots
'youth, innocence and beauty---grasp sy ghqe
sword-be pale, but firm-- lea&amp;he fair tblerp

" ;


$$                  THE WHITE ROVER.

firth-walk over the savages as though they
were logs of wood-gain the forest-breathe
more freely-the girls pant with excitement---
you are near-take Helen-I take Adelaide--all
right-nobody's business-sweet mesdemoiselles
..Ah I Lesage I"
"Fair, but proud Helen, you shall yet be won !"
exclaimed the captain, triumphantly. " You
scorned me once, yea, twice ; but now, haughty
beauty, the power is mine. And I shall crush
and humiliate, both in one-the peerless Helen,
the fire-eating Rover  Sccre Dieu! but will it
not crush his proud spirit !"
Lesage rubbed his hands and chuckled over'
his prospective triumph. In his diabolical mal-
ice, he resembled a fiend from the bottomless
pit, more than a man.
" We will pay back the scorn they have heaped
upon us at different times," added Hubert.
' IDearest Adelaide-sweet charmer-I come, I
come-a dainty piece indeed ! But I am; wild
with impatience," continued the commissary,
'pith a theatrical air. "'T is time, captain. The
moon rides high in the heavens-the-hour has
Come.' Now shall we reap our reward for all
our dangers-and-and-rascalities," resumed
Hhiettr "Await me here. Inhalf anihour Iwill
rejoin you with the charming mesdemoiselles."
aP-ie commissary waitedjor no further reply
A: hurried away. Hubert walked rapidly, and
hiVlaek heart throbbed with wild and unhal-
1*e&amp;foy.
yw*  * **    *         *    It'
Reteand Adelaide stood beside the entrance
lothldge.
you- think they are really sleeping ?'
i~ieen. -
L      r I  nr4 -dy do. Their respirdtion is deep
ni4 egulariand they lie very quietly," answered
t,  Other.'
"Ateygustill firi-shalliwe try ?" continued
'  naEfirm, and we will try," said Adelaide.
.iGti e.iae your hahd,Adelaide-I am ready-
M fk bith pass out'at the shme moment-softly
" -softly." .
Ih twb girl, tightly grasping each other's
hMfds tolele frofn 'the lodge. °They stepped
l   l.namong the=steeping braves, scarcely dar-
:id tNhthe, and tre nbling excessively. In a
rsinrzBnlit they had passed the dangerous vicinity,
atI'eif "fai y figures were moving rapidly
didgitie  oi-est.
"  M'rond f sight of the lodge-we shall
~oon be far away," said Helen.

" Heaven be praised !" exclaimed Adelaide.
"Let me recover my breath a little. How my
heart palpitates. Now we willrun."
" This is indeedafortunate-blessed-providen-
tial !" cried a voice. The maidens looked at
each other in mute despair ; for'it was the com-
missary who had spoken.
"It shall be my proud and happy privilege to
conduct you to your friends, unfortunate maid-
-ens," he added. " There are horses near at hand.
Others of your good friends have joined me ;
and two of them I think you will not be dis-
pleased to see. This way-a few rods down to-
wards the valley-hurry, mesdemoiselles-no
time to lose-Indians don't sleep sound-may
wake up-follow-kill us all."
Taking-Adelaide by the arm he gently urged
her onward, and Helen followed, holding her by
the hand she had not relinquished since she left
the lodge. For a few moments the commissary
hurried them along. They did not speak, nor
struggle,nor complain, nor acknowledge that they
suspected that all was not right : they had no
power to do so ; they were bewildered and as-
tounded by the sudden overturning of their
hopes.
Hubert at length ceased to urge the captives
onward. He stopped, and a man joined him
instantly. The commissary pointed to Helen
with a significant smile.
" Sweet Mademoiselle Helen !" exclaimed
Lesage, seizing the hand of our heroine. Helen
shrieked with horror, and drew it from him. im-
mediately.
Imagine, if you can," added. Lesage, "the,
joy that I feel in knowing that I have assisted in
your escape from a 'thraldom so dreadful-so
cruel-so hopeless, so-"
" Cease to dissemble longer," replied Helen,
recovering her self-possession somewhat. "Lay
off the mask, and show yourself the despicable
villain that you are. And you, sir," turning to
the commissary, " can follow his example. We
know you for a vile hypocrite-a smooth-tongued
ruffian---a mean-spirited coward-a double-deal-
ing knave--a wretched impostor, unfit to breathe
the air of heaven."
'A-fair beginning, truly," said Hubert,'abashed
in spite of all his effrontery.
"Fair, indeed !"'rejoined Lesage, contemptu-
ously.' Helen Lerowe," he added, with a wicked
smile of triumph upon his lips; "the time when
you could scorn and insult me is past. I dtm no
longer a suitor, to kneel and use honeyed woren

THE WHITE ROV R

No I nol that period is gone by. It is now you
turn to sue and supplicate. There are mango
many rough, dismal miles of wilderness betwee
you and your home. No friend can start u
from the ground to save you; no hand can wrest
you from my grasp. I will, and do, throw o
the mask.. Know that you are in my power an
can expect no mercy. You love the man I hat
with intense hatred. Were it no more than t
punish, crush, humiliate him, you should not b
pitied or saved."
"Imagine, Mademoiselle Adelaide, that I hay
said the same words to you," exclaimed th
commissary.
"Do not touch me !" cried-Adelaide, terrific
at what .she had heard, as Hubert endeavored t
grasp her arm. " There is poison in the fou
contact !"
"Offer me rlo indignity," said Helen, retreat
ing from Lesage. "Remember that you ma'
feel his vengeance."
"Whose ?" exclaimed Lesage, disdainfully.-
"You know who," answered Helen.'
" Stuff, nonsense, foolery ! I care not for Del
croix. He is a renegade, a felon, and a-a-"
"Nay.; he is none of those you have named
I deny the charge," retorted Helen.
" O, that Pierre Moran were here !" said Ade
laide, half frantic with fear.
"Cease to yex yourself about him. He is not
needed. I am the hero of this occasion," said
the commissary.
"You see that it is of no use to struggle with
destiny," resumed Lesage. ".You have lost in
this game; I have won; submit gracefully. It
were folly to attempt to elude me now. Shud-
der, if you will; look around you, expecting
some strange rescue ; or call on Hieaven, as all
forlorn damsels dor .how very singular that
Heave;            such prayers !"
" I       °t nu;often, unfeeling and blas-
phemeNi io ter!" ",cried Helen.
"Be merciful--spare us-take us back to our
frientls !" exclaimed Adelaide, falling upon her
knees.
"You look beautifully in that chaining atti-
tude," said the commissary.
"If it would avail aught, I would most earn-
estly join in the petition; but alas, what prayers
or tears could move such beings to the exercise
of common humanity !" said Helen; and then
turning to the commissary, she exclaimed, in
tones of touching entreaty : " Have you no feel-
ing of honor,.no remains of goodness to make

Ir you ye aman-no finersensibilities to be awak-
y, ened-no relentings-no tender pity-no- soft
n remembrance of a mother'sor a sister's love
p    "He is guilty of nothing of the kind:!" said
t Lesage. "You but wasts words-you do not,
ff cannot move us; and Heaven is not propitious.?
d "Heaven is: propitious i" exclaimed a voice,
;e which made theflushed cheeks of Lesage grow
o deadly pale. " Heaven is propitious."
e   Before the captain had recovered from the first
stupor of astonishment;,the breech of-the Rover's
e rifle had fallen upon his head, and beaten him to
e the ground.
" That is for you !" cried Pierre Moran, deal-
d ing the commissary a blow which laid him sense,
o less beside his companion in guilt.
d   Helen's eyes fell upon Henri; she clasped=her
hands, looked up to heaven, and the next mo-
- meant lay insensible in the arms of the Rover;-
y while Adelaide, embraced alternately by, ie
and her father, was weeping in the excess of her
joy.
During this time Boisbriant and Red-Shoo
- secured Lesage and the commissary,.having
bound their hands firmly behind them. 'The
. captain was the first to recover from the effldta
of his punishment.
-   "What means this violence ?" he exclaimed,
calling all his effrontery to his aid, and resolWg
t to put the best face upon the matter to thedatL
S   " It means," said Boisbriant, sternly,_'tha
you have been caught in your tillany, and fia
your career in:Louisiana is broughtto -a cose.
" That your sun is setting, and your night
coming on, as- I told you," added the Rover«
"A thousand bitter maledictions upon your
head !" exclaimed Lesage, literally gnashing his
teeth until his mouth was white with foam.'If
my, own flat could hurl you :down to the deep'
depths of the pit, you would soon be wrthingu
beneath the tortures of the quenchlesslame=and
the worm thatdieth not. You have baffled me;
always baffled me; and now youlive to rejoice
in your: luck, and exult over mydownflI
The captain paused to gather. calmness enough
to proceed, and then went on with increasing
energy. "But I am not dead yet. I may live
many years, and perhaps I may walk over your
grave-and perchance I may yet help to lay you
there. Fool that I was, not to have taken bette,
aim, and sent you out of my way forever l"
"Do not say too much," replied - enri, "1sor
the bad blood in my heart is stirred up enough
already. Soon I shall not be able to control y


3#mr

THE WHITE ROVEIL

actions. Pean scarcely keep my hands from
doingwhat should be done by the public execu-
ioer. But that which most lashes me to mad-
ness, and almost -makes me a maniac in my~
Shirstatfor-vengeance, is the wrong that you have
heaped upon these defenceless maidens. If there
is anything under the canopy of heaven that I
everdesired, it is to slay you outright, and with-
out mercy. Pierre Moran, take hold of me, or I
shall connit a murder."
"Maly I die by inches,' if I so much as lift a
singer to restrain you from sinking your toma-
hawk into his head !" cried Pierre, stoutly be-
stowing' a hearty kick upon the commissary, by
way of emphasis.
"Ask me," he continued, " to hold him while
ye scalp him alive, and curse meif I don't
do it!"
"I protest against this ruffianism !" cried Hu-
be't; furiously.
"So these dear girls protested against yours,
and you were deaf to their moving appeals,
which woald have moved the heart of a brute,"
dedforan, fiercely.
l'hey pleaded your mercy on bended knees,
and eyougin the redundance of your diabolical
cruelty, laughed them to scorn. Protest, if you
llkeep-on' protesting, and see what it will
ail. By'all that is sacred and holy, if Bois-
bant will consent, I will hang you to the near-
tr J  e-you and your accomplice in guilt."
ibert grew deadly pale, and trembled, as he
$ - -uon the ground. He looked beseechingly
at Boisb plant ;
4f appe61to you for protection," lie said, ab-
jectly.
You do'not deserve it," replied Boisbriant.
uhen'o    consent ?" exclaimed Pierre.
will have them trussed up in thirty see-
.f f;ercy mercy 3" shrieked the commissary.
"have'been led into crime by this villain'beside
n41AJ1unish him,and spare me."
'IUawol1 for you to turn against me !" cried

Lesage. " It is excellently well for you to call
me a villain. 0, it is manly-it is noble-it is
the part of a friend," sneered Lesage.-
"I curse you most bitterly," continued Hubert,
in the agony of his fear. "I curse: you for an
unmitigated scoundrel-the author of my ruin !"
'" Craven-hearted traitor !" returned the cap-
tain. " You jave been as ready, as eager and de-
signing sin these matters as myself, and now, in.
the hour of our downfall, you turn and curse
me. 0, but I will remember it, Hubert. I will
expose you. I will tell all your plottings against
de Bienville, and of the letters you have writ-
ten, and of the lies you have 'told to the ministry
-I'll tell it all, and we will see who is the greater
villain of the two. Ha! ha ! you wished to be
appointed governor, did you! A fine governor !
an excellent governor ! a brave governor ! a
moral governor !"
" And you wished to kill Henri Deleroix be-
cause he stood in your way. You perjured
yourself, and made others to perjure themselves.
You bought up the negroes, and you produced a
piece of bark, containing characters made merely
to beguile time, and which you well knew proved
nothing; and you turned those harmless dia-
grams into damning evidences of guilt. You
hired an assassin, also, to accomplish what your
treachery bad failed to do. What do you say
to this, Chef Menteur ?" rejoined the commis-
sary.
"If we set them at liberty, they will soon be
ready to kill each other," said Pierre.
" Wicked men, when exposed, find much of
their punishment in mutual recriminations," ob-
served Boisbriant.
" Chef Menteur," said Red-Shoe, who had un-
til this time been assilent and attentive listener,
" you have been a very bad man-a snake in the
grass-and your heart is not so big as a woman's.
You are not fit to live, and you will die like a
squaw. The happy grounds will not be open to
you, and there will be no canoe to carry you
across to the land of bright shadows"  .

I

CHAPTER XX.
THE GRAND DENOUEMENT.

WE scarcely'need pause to explain the sudden
appearance of the foresters. The kind reader
will, by a natural and easy deduction, arrive at
the truth of the matter. Led on by Boisbriant,
they had reached the vicinity of the encampment
in time to witness a portion of the scene which
had ensued between the captain, the commissary,
and the maidens. Boisbriant, Ridelle, and Red-
Shoe had stayed near Lesage, while the Rover
and Pierre had followed the commissary. They
had seen the mesdemoiselles fall unconsciously
into his hands-and the whole party had silently
closed up around the villains and their intended
victims, when the events transpired just related.
"1This is a pleasant spot ; let us encamp for
the night," said Boisbriant.
All parties gladly acquiesced in the proposal.
A large pile of wood was shortly collected-a
cheerful blaze soon cast its ruddy light upon the
surrounding forest. Many green boughs were
cut and laid upgn the ground, and blankets
spread upon those, until an air of comfort seemed
to breathe around them all. During these pre-
parations there was much talking, and much
happiness experienced by the lovers and the
rescued maidens. The fierce, vindictive. looks
of the two prisoners'alone marred the general
feeling of pleasure.
"Ihear the sound of horses' feet," said Red-

Shoe, putting his ear close to .the earth. Tie
mesdemoiselles glanced at their lovers in alarm.
"It is true," said the Rover. "I can hear
them myself, and there are many of them."
" I will go and reconnoitre," said Onalaska,
and immediately left them. The other foresters
cocked their rifles, and awaited with muchtlsa-
iety the result. Presently the footsteps griw
more' distinct, and the sound of -voices was
plainly heard.
"They are Frenchmen I"exclaimed Boisbriant.
The agreeable surprise of the foresters it is no
easy matter to describe, when they perceivd a
large cavalcade advancing, composed ef 4he ,
lowing characters, viz., de Bienville, Ftherr-
vion, Madame Mablois and La Glories  whisl
the rear was brought'up by twenty well mnted
Frenchmen, an4 thirteen Natchez warriortby
renegade included in the number. The gy .
ernor was engaged in earnest conversation W;I
Red-Shoe, as he advanced, and was prepsgdod r
what he now beheld.
"This is indeed a surprise," exclaimted dole.
"Yes," replied the governor, smiling "it-is a
double surprise; ford am quite as much or more
surprised, than you are. Henri, my brerbog,
step forward, and let me speak to au.
The governor's voice shook-i  motoitas
he spoke.

m


THE WHITE ~ ROVER.

Henri advanced a step, and de.Bienville has-
tily .dismounted.
"acre DieuI" exclaimed the governor, gaz-
ing earnestly at the White Rover. "The very
face-the very form-the very expression-Hen-
ri, Ienri, behold your father's brother. I am
your uncle, and your father's name was Iber-
vllle-the noble-the fearless-the generous-
the self-sacrificing Iberville, who was as dear-to
me as my own life."
Do Bienville ceased, overcome by his feelings.
Large tears coursed down his cheeks..
Henri stood like one astounded. He neither
moved nor spoke ; surprise kept him dumb.
"Yes, you are an Iberville, every inch an
Iberville," continued the governor, proudly em-
bracing Henri. " I might have known it by your
noble figure and lofty bearing ; by your fearless
spirit, and by the strong resemblance."
"Mon Dieu! I am bewildered," exclaimed
our hero, at last. " This cannot be true."
"It is'true as holy writ," said Madteme Ma-,
blois, taking Henri's haid.
"lAndsyou are-" began our hero.
"Your mother, Henri !"
The Rover could no longer govern his enq-
}       tleelinggt the'feetof  ada ne M blois,
'li  e  l i  i de  -a             Mablois,
de ou gi g' biethe ass rance, I can no
long  +dtbt, he't eulate  length.
ood-friends," said-the governor, wiping
ing his hand upon'the Rover's
1 t=iA~iecessary that Ishould explain this
it as pro bl  never known to one
to rat Iberilie,'miy gallantbtothei-, brought
with i himifair wife t9othe sores of Louisiana."
aold rue so with his own lips,"
"   h ppebetter,' continued de Bienville,
t  ow i. You will naturally ask
=marriage was kept a secret.
1 iteliyou all."
ele Wh e    made plain,"
e'ablois.  I. was born in Paris.
*tf4 a , tom°   ealei- de HenrivinIe, was im-
is oflychild. He was a
i .aA t     i eM     irng prej dices.
It w  ap~ar 9f hig character that when he had
oh upon a particular sub-
S ho 'tehan ed its (e of his favorite
a eof   rne to "the son of a
hentleian 'pf dissoiute

knew, he was the one I held in the least esteem
or to speak more to the point, I utterly despised
him. This person professed to love me as ar-
dently as I hated him. My father wished me to
wed him without delay. I refused, and he vowed
to disown and disinherit me. Ihad already met
de Iberville, and loved him, and listened with
pleasure to his vows of unceasing constancy,
although I was at that time aware that a hope-
less feud existed between the father of Iberville
and my own. To influence my mind, my father
showed me a will, drawn up in due form, by
which I was to be disinherited, if I married
against his wishes. Upon the evening of that
very day, I was secretly married to Iberville.
A few months after taking this step, to escape
from the tyranny of my father, and the impor-
tunities of the man he had selected for my hus-
band, I left Paris forever, and set sail for the
new colony with my beloved Iberville. On the
passage he exacted from me a solemn promise
to keep the fact of our marriage a secret until
after the decease of my father, the chevalier.
"'I shall never touch a franc of his long-
hoarded wealth,' said my' husband; ' but the
helpless being, that will shortly demand your
care, may one day feel the need of riches. I have
long felt-an impeifect organization has pressed
home the conviction with prophetic. truth-that
I shall not live to see my child arrive at matu-
zity. Let us then, my dear wife, keep our mar-
riage .a secret known only to ourselves and a
few friends in the new country to which we care
going. Your father may relent, and leave the
bulk of his vast wealth to you, which he will
never do if he leans that you have linked your
fortunes to one of my father's family, as you are
aware, that a deadly feud exists between the
heads of the two families-a quarrel which leaves
us nothing to hope in the way of reconciliationo'
" Knowing the noble motives which influenced
sy husband, I made a solemn agreement with
him never to divulge the fact of our marriage in
any manner, so that .it could reach the ears of
my father. Tberville was greatly belovedby the
Natchez. A beautiful cottage was reared for
me in one, of their pleasantvillages. My, hus-
band passed much of his time with me, and I
was happy. I.was a mother also; and Iberville
idolized ur- Henri. He was a year old when
his f there died. I confided a small :part of my
secret to Father Davion-enough to secure ;hi
aid, and my boy was taught mango. tigggby a'
him which I could not have learnd himu    I

gave him the name of Henri Delcroix, by which
he has ever since been known, and studiously
concealing from hin the fact that I was his
mother.'
"You all kknow how much interest I have
ever manifested in this youth, and truly I have'
kept my promise to Iberville. Four days ago I
received the intelligence that my father had de-
ceased at an advanced age,leaving all his wealth
to me; for I had informed him in various ways
and at different times, that I was still living.
Henri is now rich, and no stain rests upon his
name. The nearest that I ever came abandon-
ing my purpose of keeping our marriage from
the governor, was when my boy was in prison.
-But happily everything was ordered for the best.
I was instrumental in his escape, and was not
obliged to divulge the secret of his birth at that
time.
" When I received news that my father was,
no more, there was no longer any need that I
should observe secrecy. I explained all to his
excellency, and burning with impatience to em-
brace his nephew, he set out at once-took the
trail, and has happily found him."
Helen wept plentifully during this recital, and
Boisbriant was observed'to gaze steadily at her.
"Father Davion," he said, at length, in an ex-
cited manner, " can you tell me anything in re-
lation to the history of this young lady ?"
"Alas I I know no more of her history than
that she was left in my cabin during my absence,
about sixteen years ago. She was then about
two years of age, and I should judge, had been
living among the Indians for some time. She
had upon her neck a small locket, containing a
miniature," replied Father Davion.
"Where is the miniature ?" asked Boisbriant,
still more excited.
"Here," said Helen, drawing a locket from her
bosom. " I have worn it ever since I can re-
member."
"It is she-my Irene! Helen, you are my
child !" and Boisbriant caught Helen to his heart
and held her in a long and loving embrace.
" I am too happy," murmured Helen. "It is
joy indeed to feel a father's love at last."
Boisbriant made a significant motion to de
Bienville. The latter took -Henri's hand and'
led him towards Helen, and then toisbriant
joined the hands of the two. Madame Mablois
smilingly brought forward Father Davion, and
left him directly in front of the parties.
"Stop one moment, if you please," said Ri-

delle. " There is more to be done in that way."
Saying these words, he proceeded to place
Adelaide and Pierre Moran in the same order.
Obedient to the order of de Bienville, the sol-
diers and warriors closed up around the parties.
Father Davion wiped his eyes for the hun-
dredth time, and was about to say something,
when Madame Mablois stopped him with:
" Stop another moment, good father. Some-
thing more can be done, I believe. Red-Shoe,"
she added, in a whisper, approaching the chief
softly, and smiling, " would you not like to wed
the princess ?"
" Does the sun love to kiss the clouds, or the
stars to look down upon the -earth at night ?
Does the grass love the gentle rains, or do the
flowers turn toward the light ?" he asked.
" La Glorieuse," continued Soft-Voice, " the
great war-chief loves you better than the grass
loves. the gentle rain, or the flowers love the
light. Come and wed him, that all maybe hap-
py, and not a single virtuous heart beat sadly
here to-night."
La Glorieuse extended her hand to Red-Shoe.
Soft-Voice formed them into a line with the
others, and Father Davion wiped his eyes again.
Boisbriant turned to the French and Indians.
" My fine fellows, open your mouths and shout
as loud as you can. Now-go it again-louder
-louder-twice as loud. That'll do ;'very good."
Such shouts as went up from the forest at that
time were never heard before, or since.
" Wait a little longer, Father Davion, and
you may go ahead with full speed," added Bois-
briant. " Sergeant Dumont and CorporalRion,
clap your hands upon those two rascals, lying
on the ground there, and bring' them up here so
they can see well," he added.
"Come up here, my beauties," saidthe ser-
geant. " Take hold of his feet, Corporal-tug
him along. Don't kick, captain ; it m= n it,
harder for us, and it's a wedding you'regoing
to."
Iii half a minute the captain and the comnmis-
sary were placed in front of the persons to be
wedded.
"I wish I was dead and covered up in the
ground;" muttered the captain, fiercely grinding
his teeth with rage.
" I wish you were," returned the commissary,
with an oath.
FatherDavion wiped his eyes yet again, and
essayed to speak ; but the sounds died away in
his throat.

THE ,WMTI&amp; . ROVER.


94.THi                             WHIT
"It can't be done," he managed to articulate,
at length.
"ngt it must be done !" exclaimed Pierre
Moran, impatiertly, looking at the blushing
Adelaide.
" Of course it must," added Boisbriant, "and
a fine affair it seems to be, if I'm any judge.
Boys, hurrah again, while the old, gentleman
clears his throat; he's got an extraordinary
cold!"
The old woods shook once more to the hearty
cheers of the soldiers, and the triumphant yells
of the warriors.
By this timeFather Davion had succeeded in
getting -his pipes tolerably clear, and didn't
.break 'down but once or twice during the whole
ceremony.
Mutual' embraces and congratulations fol-
loiwed, and not one of the happy party slept a
wink that night.
The next day they tet out on their return to
New Orleans ; and though they were more than
two days an the way, they all considered it a
asant journey.
s ubert was sent home to France by order of

E ROVER.

the governor, where he was deprived of his office,
and otherwise disgraced. He never showed his
face in the colony again.
Lesage was first cashiered, and then impris-
oned for a few months. He was afterwards shot
by Ette-Actal, the renegade. Several'of the Ban-
bara negroes were arrested and executed. The
White Rover visited the different Indian tribes,
and made peace among them by distributing
presents, and making some concessions which
they had insisted upon. The innocence of Henri
was of course fully established.
The renegade left off many of his vicious hab-
its; and finally, by the influence of La Glori-
euse, was again taken into favor by his people.
We can add but little more. We take leave
of our characters, leaving them happy and con-
tented. We feel that it would be useless to
swell longer upon the fortunes of Helen, and
Adelaide, when united to such noble and gener-
ous hearts.
Truly grateful to the gentle readers who have
followed us thus far, we sincerely hope they have
been interested in the, fortunes of the WHITB
Romn, and the fair maidens of Louisiana.

THE END.

11 '11-

U

[FROM GLEASON'S PICTORIAL DRAWING-ROOM COMPANION.)
TSE UNFINISHED WILL.
BY SYLVANUS COBB, JR.

SOLOMON VANWICK was an old man-a man
who had weathered the storms and frosts of four-
score years. His frame had become weakened,
his health impaired, and his mind nervous and
irritable ; but yet the same iron will that had
marked his disposition in the prime of his man-
hood, was not bent beneath the weight of age.
The old man had had but one child--a son.
That son had died, leaving an only daughter, so
that Solomon Vanwick had but one living de-
scendant, from himself, the fair Isabella, his
grandchild. Vanwick was wealthy and proud,
and among the branch relations of his house,
who hung abbut him in hopes of golden remem-
brance in his will, was Victor Waldamear, the
son of the old nabob's sister.
Old Vanwick was sitting in his large arm-
chair ; near him stood Isabella, while at one of
the high gothic windows stood Victor Walda-
mear. Isabella, though her eyes were tearless,
had, yet been weeping at the heart, but she
trembled not, nor did she shrink before the
stern gaze that was bent upon her.
Isabella," said the old man, while a mean-
ing frown darkened his wrinkled face, " this
Alfred Norcross is not the man for your hus-
'band. Do you understand me ?"
"I understand what you say, grandfather,
but I think you can know little of the man of

whom you speak. If you did, you would honor
him for his virtues."
" When I say that Norcross is not the man
for your husband, I mean it !" said the old man;
" so from henceforth you will see him no more."
" No, no, my dear grandfather," exclaimed
Isabella, with an imploring look and tole, "you
will not persist in that. You will not thus
crush me beneath your displeasure."
"Not if you obey me.".
" But Alfred is the son of my father's dearest
friend."
"Yes," returned Vanwick, with bitterness,
" and your father's friend was my enemy."
" And will you, because thdre was an unhappy
difference between yourself and the' elder Nor-
cross, now keep that enmity alive against the
unoffending son ?"
"Silence, girl! Let me hear no more of this.
What I have said is said, and it shall never
recalled."
" Sir," said Isabella, while an inward struggle
to keep downs her rising emotions gave a pen-
liar tremulousness to her tone, "you are can od
man, and your days on earth are-short,; bitt
little joy of this life is left for you, whie i p
young, and all of active life is before ine. The
steps which I take now will give color to my..
future, and be that future long "r short, it must


96                THE UNFINISHED WILL.

97

be made happy or miserable according as my
steps are turned. My heart I have given to
Alfred Norcross; in his keeping have I placed
my purest affections, and I know that he is wor-
thy of the trust. This union of our young
hearts is the basis of all our joy in theefuture,
and I cannot feel that even you have the right
to rend it in sunder."
" Child, do you prate to me of right ?" uttered
the old man. " Young Norcross shall never
touch one farthing of my money. You shall
not marry him, and if he dares again-"
"cHold1" interrupted Isabella, while a strong
calmness seemed to support her, " whatever you1
have to say against me, I am ready to hear ; but
speak not against Alfred Norcross, for he is my1
husband!"
" Your husband !" reiterated old Vanwick,
grasping the arms of his -chair with his bony
'hands. "Jsebella, speak that word again !" .
"Alfred Norcross is my husband !" pro-
nounced the fair girl,.in a firm tone.I
" Then," returned the old man, asp his face
grow livid and his teeth grated together, "go
and live with your husband. From henceforth
you arenothing to me. I have forgotten you-  1
your image is wrenched from my heart. Cross
not my.~threshold again. Go ! you are discarded, f
a'forever! '
"But, my grandfather-"b
"Sience, miscreant ! Out of my house, and e
neve, let me set eyes upon you again !"   r
"Then'farewell, and may -Heaven yet pour t
the"balm of. forgiveness o'er your soul," said Is-
abella, as she half turned away; but ere she t
vent, she gazed once' more into his passion-- i
wrought face, and with a starting Zgr she h
continued:     .lc
'todmoney, grandfather, I never coveted, s
hut your love Iwould fain retain. Your prop- t]
Y   ftymay go to' those who hang about you for
#, possession, but your old heart's affections s:
Hijl 'findno better resting-place than in the I
bosom of your grandchild, for there, at least, c
ywill be reciprocated."
OldSolomon Vanwick made no reply, but k
h ie yet he gaxed at the light form of his grand-
cd, she passed out from the room. As the
Qor-closed behind he-, a look of almost fiend= ti
like exulation rested upon the 'face of Victor se
ear, and he turned his eyes away from
Is  a lesthis real feelings might be seen. t
eu iinutes passed: away, dining which time i
th  ia fa sat with his hands grasped firmly pi

upon the arms of his chair, while a fierce rage
seemed rankling in his bosom ; but at length
his feelings settled to a sort of cold, iron deter-
mination, and turning towards his nephew, he
said :
" Victor, I think she's been ungrateful to me."
"Most ungrateful," returned Victor, in a
fawning, pharisaic tone. " Her ingratitude to
one so kind and generous as yourself, was to
me as unexpected as it was bewildering. But,
my dear uncle, you may yet somewhat relent
towards her, for though young Norcross is-un-
worthy of your esteem, yet Isabella may have
been deceived."
" Deceived !" exclaimed the old man, again
bursting into a passion. "It's me that's been
deceived! Most grossly has she deceived me.
No, no, Victor, you cannot palliate her offence.
I have discarded her-disavowed her. Not a
penny of my property shall she ever touch."
Again Victor Waldamear turned away to
hide the glow of exultation that suffused his
countenance.
"Dear uncle," he said, at length, in a tone so
studied and hypocritical that any but a rage-.
blinded old man might have seen it, "let me
advise you to wait awhile ere you alter your will;
for though Isabella has disgraced you by her
marriage, as well as forfeited your kindness by
her reckless disregard of all your desires-and
ven though she has virtuallycast herself off by
ruthlessly trampling on your love and solici-
ude, yet-"
" Peace, peace, Victor !" interrupted the old
nan, with increased emotion, "Nothing, noth-
ng shall turn me. I know you would plead for
her, but even with your pleading, you cannot
ose sight of'her utter unworthiness. My deci-
ion is made. Here, take this key and unlock
he left department of that old cabinet."
Victor Waldamear stepped to the old man's
ide, and with a trembling hand he took the key.
t was placed in the lock, and the quaintly
arved door was opened.
" Do you see th t deep drawer, with a small
ey in its lock asked the old man.
" Yes, sir," returned the nephew.
" Open it. Within you will see a parchment
ed with a blue ribbon, and bearing a heavy
cal. Bring it to ie."
Victor found the document, and he handed it ' ;
o his uncle; then, at an 'order from! the old
aan, he rang for a servant, who, when he  app
eared, was requested to bring a lighted taper * .

Ere long the taper was brought, and after
the servant had withdrawn, Vanwick tore off the
seal and ribbon from the roll he held, and as he
opened it, Victor's eyes rested upon his uncle's
will! With features again set in their firm,,
iron mould, the old man raised the parchment
to the blaze of the taper. The compact vellum
began to hiss and crackle in the flame, and as it,
-crisped and rolled in the heat, it fell in charred
masses upon the table. Slowly it burned, but
yet line after line of its inky import became an-
nihilated, and at length the work of destruction
was complete. Old Vanwick's will was no
more.
Thus far had Victor Waldamear triumphed.
He had succeeded in poisoning the old man's
mind against his grandchild, by the most subtle
arts. He had not dared to directly attack the
name of Isabella, but he had most basely tra-
duced the fair fame of Alfred Norcross, and by
a continuous siege of petty thrusts and stabs at
the cords of affection that bound the old man
to his son's daughter, he had at length seen the
estrangement complete. But the game was not-
yet won, for without a will, Isabella was the di-
rect lineal -heir. A few will must be made, and
to this end, and that he might be the heir, Vic-
tor Waldamear determined to set himself at
work. He was now Vanwick's sole confidant,
and he held no doubts of his success. Already
the broad lands and the bright gold of his uncle
seemed his own, and not a pang of remorse
reached his heart, as he thought of the poor, in-
nocent being whom he had so foully wronged
out of her birthright.
Isabella was not entirely happy when she
turned her steps towards the dwelling which her
husband had procured, nor was she really sad.
The knowledge that she had been utterly dis-
carded by her grandfather was a source of sqr-
row, for she had loved the old man well; but
the thought that she had a husband who loved
her cheered her on, and when at length she
found herself clasped to that husband's bosom,
the clouds were all rolled away, and she smiled
in joy.
"Alfred," said she, "here in this humble cot
we must make our home, for my grandfather
has forbidden me ever to enter his dwelling
again."
"Then he has disinherited you?"
" Yes, and he disowns me."
"6Then," said Alfred, while his fine features

THE UNFINISHED WILL.

were lighted up by a noble pride, and he clasped
his young wife more closely to his bosom, " we
will show him how independent we can be. I
am sorry that he still clings to his dislike of me,
but if I live he shall yet see that I bear him no
maice'in return. When my father urged your
father into that unfortunate speculation by
which they both were ruined, he thought to do
him a pecuniary benefit, but God ruled it other-
wise. Now, if Mr. Vanwick will still hunt me
down for the result of my father's doings, then
he is at liberty so to do ; and for my poverty,
too, I suppose he hates me ; but look up, dear-
est Isabiella ; with my pencil I can yet carve out
a fortune, or at least a comfortable means of
sustenance. You do not mourn for the loss of
your grandfather's estate, Isabella ?"
"No, no, Alfred, I coveted it not; nor do I
miss a thing I never possessed. One source of
regret alone is mine-I have loved my grand-
father, and I am sorry that he appreciates it
not."
"Your grandfather has not come to this con-
clusion without some assistance from another
quarter," said Alfred, with a spice of bitterness
in his manner. " Victor Waldamear has had a
hand in it all. His eyes have long been opened
.to the possession of old Vanwick's property,
and thus has his grasping ambition .begun to
reach its object."
"You speak truly, Alfred. But let us think
no more about it. We can make our home
happy without my grandfather's money, and if
Victor succeeds in gaining the estate, I shall
not envy him his possession."
Within the apartment where the young couple
stood, there was an easel, upon whichwas an
unfinished landscape ; but yet enough had been
placed upon the canvass to show that the-hand
that had done it, carried a bold and easy pencil.
The coloring was true to nature, and the soft
blending of the lights and shades' betrayed an
artistic taste and skill. Albert Norcross was a
fair painter, and already had he engaged work
enough to more than support him through the
year, and he was Sure of his money as fast as he
could turn off his pictures. As Isabella last
spoke, her husband clasped her once mote to
his bosom, and then imprinting a kiss upon her
fair brow, he seated himself at his easel.
Poor Isabella ! As she stood and gazed upon
her husband as he now plied his brush, she
dreamed not that the sweet flowers she 'hid
culled could be ariPed with thorns. In the in-


Il

98                           THE UIFJN
nocence of her love, she had not thought of the
future, or if she had, 'twas only as that love had
pictured it. Alfred, too, looked only through
the eyes of love, and he never once thought of
the sterner realities that sometimes go to make
up the counts of life.
At the end of a week the young artist had
fInished his picture, and, according to promise,
he prepared to set forth for the dwelling of its
purchaser. The man for whom he had painted
it, lived some: ten miles distant, and having
kissed his pretty wife, he took the product of
his labor under his arm and started off. The
forenoon was well advanced when he left his{
dwelling, but he promised to be back before
dark, and Isabella smiled as she bade him God
speed.
Isabella sang and played the hours away, till
the afternoon drew towards its close, and then
she seated herself in the small flower-garden to
watch for the return of her husband. An hour
passed away, and she arose from her seat and
walked around the garden,-then she went out
into the road and looked off in the direction
in which her husband would come ; but she
spw him not, and once more she resumed her
Oeat, Half an hour more passed, And a heavy,
blackcloud, which Isabella had not before no-
ticed,came lowering about her, and ere long the
e=avy rain-drops began to fall.  The young
wife reluctantly left her seat in the garden, and
sought refuge in the house ; but hardly had she
gained it ere the rain, began to fall faster, and
tfal gusts swept up from the cloudyladen hori-
zon. The dust and dry leaves danced in the
airrthe wind whistled louder, and a curtain of
almost impenetrable blackness was drawn over
the earth. Isabella; peered forth into the dark-
nessand when she could no longer see even
the trees that surrounded her dwelling, she
shrank back from the window and sank upon a
stool near h husband's easel.
Siiwly and heavily wore away another hour.
Isiabela arose from her stool and went to the
ddswe  The rain was fallingtn' torrents, and
the v~vid lightning had begun to dance in the
heavens.  Peal after peal of thunder.roared
rl1in the lightning-tracked space, and'at every
shockthe poor young wife heart sank lower
_nd&amp;lower in her bosom. 'once she opened the
toer, and. would have rushed forth into the
rkness, but she -qnailed before - the raging
normgiant, and-shrank trembling hack.:
Already had the disconsolate woman's mind

SHED WILL.

begun to waver beneath its load of fearful
doubt, when she thought she detected the
sound of a heavy footfall without. She sprang
towards the door, threw it open, and in a mo-
ment more her husband caught her in his arms;
she did not rest her weight upon him, however,
for in a moment she realized that he trembled
with weakness, and taking him fondly by the
arm, she led him to a seat.
Alfrpd was wet to the skin, and his limbs
were cold and shivering, and though he smiled
in answer to his wife's earnest inquiries, yet his
smiles were weak and sickly, and they dwelt
only for a moment upon the surface of his
countenance, and then faded away before the
power of pain and almost utter exhaustion.
He explained to his wife that he had been
obliged to wait some time Jfor his patron, and
that in half an hour after he started on his way
home, he was overtaken. by the storm. The
utter darkness enveloped the path with an im-
penetrable pall, and he had been obliged almost
literally to feel out his course. Often had he
fallen over the undistinguishable obstacles that
lay in the road, and had the distance been many
rods further, he could not have dragged his ex-
hausted limbs to his home.
With fearful forebodings, Isab'ella assisted her
husband to his bed, for. his face was already,
flushed with a burning glow, his breath was hot,
and his pulse beat with a feverish quickness.
She watched by his side all night, and -on the
next morning a raging fever had set in. One
of the neighbor's children was sent for a physi-
cian, and when he arrived, he pronounced Alfred
to be under the influence of a most malignant
fever; at the same time assuring Isabella that
the case of her husband was one of extreme .
doubt. He ministered, however, for the relief
of the patient, and promised. to call again on
the morrow.
A month passed away, and Alfred had not
yet left his sick bed, though the fearful crisis
had passed and he was fast recovering. The
physician had discontinued his daily visits, hav-
ing left orders for the patient's diet, with some
simple restoratives, and the young painter had
begun to hope again, Isabella was sitting by
the side of her husband's bed, and a tear which
she could not repress, stole down her pale
cheek.
"Isabella," faintly articulated the sick man,
" what means that tear ?"-
"'Tia nothing, Albert."

TIE UNFINI

"'Tis something, Isabella, for that sad look
which -accompanies it, speaks to me of some-
thing more than fatigue. Come, keep no secrets
from me. What has happened ?"
"Albert," returned the fond wife, in a tremu-
lous tone, " I know not why I should keep it
from you, for you must soon know it. But you
will not suffer it to prey upon your mind, my
husband ?"            '
"Speak, Isabella. Tell me all, and if you
can bear up under it, I shall not fall beneath its
knowledge."
" Then, Albert, we are-are-"
"Go on, my wife."
"We are penniless ! no food, no fuel, and no
means of procuring them !"
"Penniless !" murmured the young man, gaz-
ing half vacantly into the face of his wife. " I
had thought not of that. Penniless, and, alas !
how debt, too, must have crept upon us !'"
" No, no, Alfred; thank God, we are not in
debt."
"Tot in debt, Isabella ? What can have sus-
tained us thus'far ? Surely, my little stock of
money could not have gone so far."
"I have paid it all, my husband, but I can
pay no more."
'You told me not that you had money,
Isabella.?'
"1I had jewelry,}Albert."
"0, God! tnd has it come to this ?" bitterly
cried the poor man, as he placed his emaciated
hand upon his throbbing brow. " Would to
heaven that I might have suffered this alone ;
but that you, you, Isabella, should be thus
dragged into misery with me, is insupportable.
0, why did you become my wife ?"
"Alfred," uttered the wife, while the tears
coursed faster down her checks, " do not add to
what we already suffer. I can bear up under all
but such unkindness, for 'tis unkind thus to
speak of our united love. But, my husband,
there is one more source of hope."
 "And that-"-
" Is to seek my grandfather."
"0, Isabella, my proud heart shrinks from
such a course. You would only be spurned
from his door, and treated with cold-hearted
indignity and reproach. This would make our
misery greater
"Then let him spi ume. .I will at least see
him and tell him how we.suler. He was my
father's father, and he will-he must, have some
compasion."

SHED WILL.                             99
" Then he would have shown it ere this."
"He may not have known our situation."
" He must have heard of my sickness."
"Ay, but he cannot know how we now suf-
fer. Yes, Alfred, I will go to him, and if he
spurns me, we can but suffer on."
The sick man gazed into the face of his wife,
but he spoke no further. The thought that his
Isabella must go to beg for him harrowed up
his soul with an anguish more painful 'than
the disease under which he had suffered.
Since Isabella had been banished from his
house, old Solomon Vanwick had been growing'
moody and morose. He had entertained no
thought of recalling' her, nor had. he swerved
one grain, from his resolution of utterly disin-
heriting her ; but yet he missed her sweet smile
and her merry song, and no art of Victor Wal-
damear's could make him glad. The old man,
however, would not own, even to himself, that
'twas Isabella's absence that made him sad ; he
rather persuaded himself that 'twas the :sin of
ingratitude she had committed, and in this opin-
ion Victor endeavored to strengthen him. Van-
wick's health was evidently failing, and his-
scheming nephew began to fear that he would
die without making another will; but at length
the old man was brought to the point and a.
notary was sent for. He spoke of .his grande
daughter, but Victor kept strict watch that the
poison failed not in its work upon his mind
and whenever some spark of paternal kindness
would for a moment struggle to throw its beams,
over his bosom, the nephew would dash it out
with a cold stream of insinuating slander.
Within the old man's library sat Victor Wal-
damear and the notary. Vanwick was there,
and he dictated to the official while the new will'
was being made. With the exception of a few'
hundreds, which were bequeathed to some of
the old servants, the whole vast estate was made
over to Victor. The young man's eyes sparkled
as he heard the orders given which were to make
him the sole heir, and he dared not hold up his
head lest his too palpable emotions should be
seen.
"That is all," said the old man, as hegave,
the last clause of the will.s
" And have you nothing for your grandchild,
the gentle IsabellaP asked the notary, with
considerable surprise.
" Isabella, sir, has, by her ungrateful conduct,
alienated herself," returned Victor, quickly, lest,'
if time were given, his uncle might relent.

:


00  THEI1 UITINISHED WILL.

"Mr. Vanwick," continued the notary, seem-
ing to-take-little notice of what'the nephew had
said, "by law, without. a will, Isabella is your
sole'heir-the daughter-the only child of your
own only son. Is it your firm intent that she
be thus cut off" ' -"
"I tell thee yes,-old man," said Victor.
The notary noticed not the young speaker,
but he kept-his eyes riveted upon the face of
S9lomon'Vanwick.
It is, it is," at length murmured the old
man, in. a slightly faltering voice. "She has
been very unkind, very ungrteful to me, and
anwick hesitated, and for a moment Victor
trembled, but his assurance came quickly to his
aid, and he said:
"My uncle would not thus have cut her off,
but that;young Norcross stood ready .to grasp
his money. Iso his hands Vanwick desires not
that his property should fall; but, if at any time
Isabela needs. assistance, or when I can see
signs of her repentance, I shall assist her, though
I trust that long years will yet pass ere this last
testament of my dear uncle's will need to be
administered, and he himself may yet see what
the girl deserves."
Young:Waldamear spoke this with the most
hypoeritical sycophancy ; bnt it seemed to revive
the drooping purposes of the old man, for with
Suiek, nervous movement, he put forth his
hndsaying, as hedid so :
"!he will is as I wish it. Give it to me, sir,
an4let me signit. I said it,-I gave her warn-
wain-dld her she was discarded forever.
'Ta. heitraoh fault."
Old Vitnwick :spread the parchment out be.
fore him ,nd after running his eyes over it, he
seized the pen and dipped it into the inkstand.'
Th e was a nervous twitching about the mus-
desotlhis face, and a strange, lustrous fire shot
forth;from  his eyes.  The pen had not yet
touched the document.
igna 1ign 1" whispered Victor, as he sprang
to the old man's side. "Here-here is the place !"
T'Yes, =Iwill sign it,",.murmured Vanwick.
'Tse isnot worthy ; she shall not touch a penny
o ie.;, said it, and I must not swerve."
Thsd siign! sign 1"
: i- V Ehark! Dd I not hear a voice ?" ut-
'     teredtheold inan, still grasping the pen, and
raisinP Ms hand. "'Twas her voice! 'Twas
sabelig "!" .,.
" " No, xio, she has forgotten you, my dear in-
ole," nrged' Victor, while the sweat began tol
stanid uphn hisibrow. :" Sign the will! Sign !"
At that moment the door of the apartments
was thrown 'open; and Isabella, all pale andi
trembli g, erteed the ,room. Her eyes caught
the scene before her, but she dwelt upon none
save her gpandfathei' and 9wards him she east
a1lo9k of imploring tearfulaony. A moment
the old man gazed upon the Itorm of his grand.
chiud, then his lips trembled ; the fire of his eye
ehstngetdto a still-stranger glow, a tear started
f    uohi slongigray eyelashes, and slightly
rasyngis hands toward where she stood, he
~nrmured:                                 1
-~  ~'  .THE

"Isabella-my child-forgive your poor old
grandfather. I forgot the warm love of your
young heart; but let all be forgotten--forgiven.
You have come back to-you are-you are-
Isabella. Victor-take away this black curtain-
it shuts heroutt. Take it away-it makes all dark !"
"The will! Sign'it ! sign it !" gasped the
nephew, aste laid his touch upon the hand that
still held the inked pen.
That hand rested upon the table, and it
moved not. It still clutched the pen, but it
made' no motion towards the, unfinished will.
The old man's eyes were still fixed upon his
grandchild, but their fire was gone, and they
looked cold and glassy. The notary stepped
forward and raised Vanwick's hand from the
table, but it fell' back with- a dull, leaden mo-
.tion, and the unused pen fell from its grasp.
Solomon Vanwick was dead !
Victor Waldamear shrank back pale and
trembling from the scene ; he dared not speak,
for in the presence of, the deadehis conscience
shook off its slay folds and stung him. Isabella
sprang forward and threw 'her arms about the
neck of. er-.grandfather's corpse. She kissed
the marble brow, she bathed 'the pale face with
her tears, and then turning her eyes towards
the notary, she murmured:
" He forgave me ! He forgave me ere be
died! You heard him, sir, did you not? ie
loved me-he loved me--I ask no more."
*     *    *     *    *        *
" Mr. Waldamear," said the old notary, after
the party had withdrawn from the study, "hence-
forth you' must regard Isabella as the ruler of
this place. Whatever may have been your
aims, or what schemes you may have used to
attain them, you yourself best know ; but you
must now be aware that there is nothing here
for your ambition to feed upon further. -That
will Which was to have robbed a child of her
birthright is yet unfinished, and he who alone
could have done it is now no more on earth. A
wise Hand held him back from the fatal deed,
and even his own hand shrank from it. And
now," the old man continued, turning to Isa-
bella, "let the servants see that nothing is trou-
bled till my friends arrive to settle the estate.
The funeral may, if you choose, be at your own
arrangement, or I will take its- charge upon
myself."
I need not tell how the servants sneered at
Victor Waldamear, when he went disappointed
and disgraced away from the dwelling where
his schemings had failed, nor need I tell'how
the servants laughed and cried by turns when
they knew that their young mistress was re-
stored to them. Isabella mourned for her grand-
sire, but yet the smiles of joy began soon to
bloom around her.   Her dear husband was
restored to health-the wealth of her father's
house was hersf and the deadly shafts of the
traducer had fallen powerless and harmless
about her. They had, indeed, caused her some
hours of anguish, but now they had fallen back-
upon the evil man who had sent them forth,
and they stung him, and the poison he had in-
tended for others, fell to his own portion.
END.

100

. i    b
S  i  }

N.
'9
&amp;
Lu
;~
I::,
7$


  
             
         
       
   
