
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Six Months Among the Secessionists .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7786
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Six months among the Secessionists 
            
               Six Months among the Secessionists. A Reliable and thrilling narra- of the stifteinis and trials of Miss Sarah L. Palllerr, a native of Penn- nia, who, at the opening of the Great Southern Rebellion, was teach- school in Knoxville, the home of Parson Bronlow. Splendily illus-I d. 8vo, orig. colored pictorial wrappers, 40 pp. Philadelphia: Barclalky d 'dtion of asupposedly factual work, typical of Barclay's novels. Not in Wright.   PHLADELPHA BARCLLAY A Co.,  No. .56 N. SiITII Si'Ha; PHLADELPHA.    SIX MONTHS AMONG: THE SECESSIONIST.  A REiTARLE AND THRILLING NARRATIVE ov THE SUrEJEENI S AND TRTAT. OF MSS SARAH L. PAL ER, A native of Pennsylvania, who, at the opening of the Great Southern Rebellion, was teacng School in Knoxville, the home of In this work Miss Palmer thrillingly depicts the many startling %adventures she met with in her, flight from State to State and town to to wn of'the Confederate States. Also her pursuit by her disappointed Rebel Suitor, Published by Barclay & Co., No. 56 North Sixth Street. 1862.    ,: .,nuuuv i        no nULL UI HUIIU  JUSTICE TO OUR GALLANT SOLDIERS     AND SAIIORS. Though the present war has brought into existene a vast nmbef istorie' and Personal Narratives yet no work -las, un til sow appeared, devoted entirely to the ause of the Noble Men who have fought addiedandwhoare  tillgting  and dyiingin the "Holy Cause of their Collntry.  It is, therefore, to supply this want that we have commenced the publication of THE VOLUNTEERS, ROLL OF HONOR. The ROLL OF' HXOR  is issued in Monthly Numbers. Each number is complete in itself, and is                      e Magnicently Illustrated    by the most Celebrated Artists  Every Engraving represents some scene taken directly from the text of the book  The Roll of Honor is. in fac, a Casket, in w*ich will be preserved the correct name of every Soldier or Sailor who has Performed an act of I aing or gallantry in his  Countrya behalf. The proper number of his Regiment, and letter of his Compaml, or name of hms Vrssel will, also, be strictl recore, toetter woth aC fI narratine o r he  Founrrybelioe corteh, ao Alltna rraiv o' t 7, ded he 0peformed. w , mu a   pparent, possesses p  o  t VOLUME   OF ADVENTURES,  AND ALL THE TRUTH OF HSTORY, and is, therefore, hore desirable to the Reading Public than any other work. The ROLL OF HONOR will be edited BY WESLEy BRADSHAW, Author of "Pauline of the Potomac," "General McClellan's Dream," "Was^nrgton's Relatives and friends of Volunteers, and Volunteers thenselves, by seading is correct account of any praiseworthy or gallant deed, together with th N Regiment, Ship, &c., of the performer, shall have the same recorded in THE  ROLL OF H O N O R . In addition to our other inducements, we have determined to make the Following    Splendid  Offer: To that person in ae Army, or 0at of it, sending us by JANUARY IsT, 1804, th largest number of Subscribers to the               4    ROLL OF Ho;oa, We wrill Present              2    O, Second largest number                  $20 0() Pifth  "  cc'       '  * '           80  00 S i x t h I  s s  s s  *  *  *  * * .'       .0 0 Seventh ,   " * * . . s . . .  . 40  00 In casel the Volunteer be dead, he inoney will be paid to his p h If livingi to himsw, or whoever he may nam'e. ' Roln ia X hMothers Daughters, and Sons are alike interested ; t Oxcing  to every household vou land this - GLREAT ENCYCLOPEDIA OF AMERICAN  HEROISM. Send 2a  Cents for a   specimen  Copy at Onoe, and (3et up You   Entered according to Aot of Congress, in the year 1863, by BARCLAY & GOe            r la the Clerk'S Ofice of the Dstr  Court of the Unild States in and for the Eastern Ai Distit of :sylvani    *             IS SIX MO NTHS AMONG THE SECESSIONISTS, OR, THE TRIALS AND SUFFER'INGS OF SARATT L. PALTMER. Once more I am safe   at' home, where- I spent those happy days, those rosy, pearly hours of childhood, which, alas I never come back to us in this life. Little did I dream, as I used then to, follow ,my gentle, loving mother round our garden at home, and prattle to her about the future, that that future was fraught for me with so many vexations, with so many trials, with so many daggers. Ah, no I then all was beauty, all love, all happiness. This childhood dream of felicity was/'broken, when I reached my sixteenth year, by the death of my idolized mother. Reader, have you ever lost a mother? Have you ever been called upon to stand by the sick couch of the dear one, and see her pale cheek grow paler, see her thin, white arm become. thinner and whiter, and unable longer to clasp itself about your neck? Have you stood thus, and seen the doating eyes becoming glassy and dartned, as Death drew over them his filmy veil? And have you, oh, have you ever, thus watching, perhaps at the dead hour of night, heard the ainit voice saying to you with its last breath: "'Nearer:l nearer, child I am dying I dying now I God take you in His Holy keeping when I am gone. farewell!" If you have ever drunk of this bitter chalice, dear reader, you can indeed tell how I felt, how I suffered, how my-very heart'was wrung, when years ago I parted with my dear, dear mother forever, and awoke to the sad reality that I was an entire orphan. But let me    dwell no longer upon this subject, for the remembrance overcomes me, and I must nerve myself for the detail before me. Passing over that portion of my life intervening betwden the death of my mother and the time I accepted the situation of Teacher in a private school at Knoxville, Tennessee, aid, also, giving but a cursory sketch of a greater portion of the time I was in the South, I shall devote my narrative principally to the re lation of my experience during the last six months. And, reader, whoever you may be, I pray that you may never be forced to endure what I have endured, to suffer what I have suffered during those fearful, horrible six months of misery and tribulation. It is now nearly seven years since I first set foot in Knoxville, accompanied by Mr. Singleton Poindexter, a Southern planter, with whom my father while living had formed an intimate friendship, that, Upon the death of the latter, was cordially extended to myself. And, in this connection, justice compels me to say, that there are many exceptions to the accusation that the Southern people-are super, cillioust uprincipled,' tyrannical and cruel. At this very time there are noble-hearted, patriotic men in the South; who, although at present unable to stem the torrent of rebellion that rages so madly about them, only await the opportunity to give their fortunes, and, if necessary, their lives, in defense of the glorious old banner that floated over Washington and our fathers of 1776. However, I leave the truth of my assertion to be proved by the simrple and unbiassed narration of my own experience. *     ' As I have before mentioned, the friendship which had been formed between my father and Mr. Poindexter was extended to myself, and to this I was indebted, not only for a situation, but also a good home and a generous guardian,  For, upon my arrival at Knoxville, my  : kind protector insisted that I should go home with him and stay there as long as I remained in the school, which, he smilingly added, would, through his influence, be while I chose to do so. His large and comfortable mansion was occupied (besides a few select servants) by only himself and wife, who treated mQ as gently and sweetly almost as my  own mother could have done. .  So pleasantly passed my  life for three years, that, during that time, a shadow of sorrow  or trouble never crossed my sunny path except when memory carried me back to my Massachusetts home, to the little flower garden in which I used to walk with mother; to the neat kitchen and airy chamber, and the chirping pet birds that used * to hop gleefully about the door and Glows; to the old-fashioned village church with its spire, and thenhtoe graveyard around the d^b t'!  ...   church, with its quiet sleepers watched over by the cold, sentinel tomb sto nes.                     wer toWhenever these sad feelings held sway over me my nights were passed in uneasy, broken slumber and long vigils. At these seasons I would seat myself at my chamber window and gaze hour after hour at thSar away stars, till I imagined that they were the sparkling eyeat  .angels, whose shadowy forms I fancied I could see moving. about. Once I remember, as I was thus sitting, looking out towar a church which I often attended, that I saw a very brilliant star rise suddenly and directly over, the steeple. So much larger and brighter was it than the rest which studded the heavens in all directions, that I immediately fixed my eyes intently upon it. As I continued to look at it, it seemed to lose its character as'a star, and become an opening in the sky, a doorway through which I distinctly saw into the vast eternity beyond. And I beheld what seemed to be walls of houses or mansions, of amyothist and emerald, resemblingstrongly those Had often read of in mytBible, in the description of the Eternal City of the Blest. Beautiful and seraphic beings were flitting about the enchanting place, and it seemed as though every little while sweet strains of delicious music came wafting down to my ears. Enraptured I kept gazing fixedly upon the scene, thinking the while that my happiness would be complete if I could only behold my- mother's spirit; for I felt sure that the place I was now looking upon was Heaven, and that my mother was there. Still I saw her not,and as the opening began to grow smaller and the light more feeble, I despaired of seeing her at all, and, stretching forth my arms, I cried: mother I mother I dear mother "- At that input I awoke, and through my tears, (for I had been weeping in raysleep,) I glanced toward the steeple. There it stoodl in dark relief against the sky beyond, but the bright star, which I had seen rise so suddenly above it, was gone. I had been sweetly, sadly dreaming. But the task before me forces me to dwell no longer upon these scenes of Memory's grief At the expiration of the three years mentioned, the vista of my future was destined to be darkened by the return home, from the Pennsylvania University, of Alfred, the only child of Mr. Poindexter, my friend and guardian. Alfred Poindexter was, at the time of which I speak, between (twenty-three and four; tall, manly in figure, and very handsome. But his mental qualities-were exactly the reverse of his physical ones. He was haughty, supercillious, quick-tempered, vain and cruel; in short areal type of that classcalled fire-eaters. Since his    16          SIX MONTHS AtONw departure to the North, he had never been home to visit his parents until the present occasion, and of course had never before seen me. Soon after he came back he commenced the practice of medicine in which his skill, talents and affability quickly gained for him an enviable and lucrative success. He bestowed upon me from the first, an attention that in the course of time ripened into devotion, and for nearly twoyears he sought by every means in his power to obtain my consent to our union. But, for the reasons, First: that I was unable to reciprocate his feelings, and, Second: that I was engaged to a gentleman named Clarence Burr, a lawyer of Knoxville, I was forced at length pteremptorily to end all further intercourse with him on that subject. My determination enraged him beyond bounds, and'uttering threats against myself; and vowing dire vengeance upon Mr. Burr, he plunged boldly into a course of dissipation that he had until now only indulged in secretly. The natural result of this speedily followed. He lost his reputation both professionally and otherwise, and with it his practice. He then removed to Nashville, and for awhile I enjoyed the peace of mind attending histabsence, although I noticed soon after his departure, a coldness toward me on the part of Mrs Poindexter. Thismanifestation of bad feeling by Alfred's mother increased daily in strength, until at length it became actually so insulting that I was forced to make some remarks upon it, and ask for an explanation. An open rupture would inevitably have resulted from this course had it, not been for the interference of Mr. Poindexter, who, knowing that I was not to blame in the matter, prevented his wife from betraying herself into an upardonable breach of decorum and hospi- tality. This extremely unpleasant occurrence took place during the-first week in April last, at which time, the reader is aware, a fearfidl 'excitement was rousing not only the Southern but the Northern people also to frenzy. On Siturday, the 6th, Mr. Poindexter was suddenly called away to Hickman, Kentucky, concerning some property, that, by some political manoeuvering, had become jeopardized. A week later, it will also be remembered; the Confederate batteries opened fire upon Fort Sumpter. I shall never forget that eventful day as the news jame flashing through Knoxville. The Secessionists were wild with joy, while the Unionists were sorrowful enough. I was out walking at the time the intelligence was received, and chancing to meet Parson Brownlow, who I find is so famous here in the North, and who was on intimate terms with my guardian, I asked him con. ceningit. b,   7 ,           THE S12CE9SSIONI9TS- wioe Dunty ibi sth roreforhsWI new fortheuicdel !          " , - hreplie4, "it is bad,bad newsforthe  i . Ah, my dear Miss      tiase, Ihet Jiii woc country; but still -worse for the S Bout slf. It o clayf t w ole cou-antr         I bde Mr.  I thought in my own mind, as I bad r. Brownlo is views ay, 5 atersom efurther conversation, that he was correct inis views. after s come       ri, &tation and dismay may9 eesl imaine ratheirst n home,   reete meas none other than Alfred %imagindexter. erhear t sank within me, and I instinctively felt ' Po      y eyhatindexter. ^ ^ore for me This tho-ught 80 that sore troubles and trials were m storeforme hi s thought o ceeply impressee itself upo , that,be fore going to my own room, I wrote and dispatohed to Clarence a note requestin him  alst o ome for me as I wished to leave my presenthome. I infoe him also, ofthereason. his&one proceeael to pack up what few articles f Sthe reason. hs            Lor finished, whenthe I intended to take with me, an ha not long finished, when thea servan  t returnee an& informea me that he haa leftmy note, buthac servant -returned, and inor   ofme  tow suauddnl andawas not 1 no reply, as Mr. Burr had gone out of town suddenl and was not expected home until the next ay. This fact added greatly to my apprehensions, ut still I kept up my sprs, oping forne thate best he At supper time Mrs. Poi nde'xt2r s  anl earn ed that shent a s paying a visit to a riend. lfredhowever, wa peen t, an was payin         odes fm persisted, notwithstanding the coldness of my demeanor, in making A notwithstabn ancable to me, if I may be allowed the :' Smself disagsreeably agree-'o, .me time I deteeted him casting epession. The loo          Lot  e himi alarmed meT upon me; when he, tog  I              The ":'  much, that I resolved to go and see Cla1rence immediately meal over, I le the table and, asending myowlroom, proceeded i[' . o attmea  s,  lkin g dress. toatr    y       h  h ^ ^^sonndOf footste'P Just as I had completed '",    elstre ad e sA partent    I listened ien      elasti nd trea mblglY was A Ires, and as I recognmzeea this, m heart m te g o o hh a 'mmn f?!?' sank upon a chair, unable even to scr the door intghe oreoaiia I ^^       :^-s-hmhnbakThe strangannacountheebodig "   late  as thrown backe  A'    .  l(ht    e, at of evil that ha haunte mesince m  orn ng want, prohs  to write to Clarence Burr, as now acountefor.   e foot upon the threhold te   my persecutor, a bitter smile of triumph i'.purin hisipsand hisht ad t  sas     beneath t he breast of his coat. As our eyes met, s aid witha mallios lgh ) "So, Miss, you have been writing some of yourinfernalliestot ': brainles lawyer, Clar ence BUTr  likea"tiger)and#startiu These words fired me with anger; to my feet, exclaimed'          by whose permalon cf:f ,hat mean you, sir, by such language?' and?, io .you aare to enter my roe-- o nbfden by mc "i'A':j   ; l 18,     SIX MONTHS AMONa 1;    'IYoung Poindexter strode forward a    a door, and then confronti replied in islnged to and bolte d the / = Edge,-- "kWhat I mean is best answered by thav!" flinging a. my. ee a note, which, even amidst all my excitement, Iaw was from ilarene. "ABna," continued .Alfred, as I stooped quickly n eud h -let   ter, "Ieteryourroom by. y own pe rmissionn s m  Very good, sir," I answere d, movisn to ward the door, "you are welcom  e to remain-.alone. I s  hall leavetaaone n c "I don't think you will, my Yankee maid of love and va/orl" mlockinlyt.1 ejaculaded woineter puhinem violntl b  ak  wrenching, at the same moment, the key from the lock. "eme out, rsir, or I will call for assistancel,i cried, again makin  g toward the  door. "You ma3Iy Call as much s you choose, but it will do yToy no good, my love, for there is not a Soul athe ouse. Ihavetaken are that we shall be undisturbed, and itis my fu1 intention to revenge myself' upon you for all the injury your stubbornness has caused me." As this rejoinder, uttered in cold, determined tones, fell Upon rn ears, my imb tre mbled under me wih an agony of fear, and I felt that I was indeed helplessly in the power of ry unprincipled enemy" But still, putting my. trust in God, I d'eterrnined to resisa unto death t*hs resolve Ibhad surcely made, when Poindexter advanced toward e I sprang backward to the wall; and uttered a piercing screarn  for help; but hopei fded with the dying echoes ofmycante following instant I was clasped in the foul embrace of my intenCled d esroe Again Iscreamed wildlyp, shrilljr to be saved, snd strg. gled despairingly. Still no aid Came, and my. dark fate seemed sealed, when, all at once, there were ponderous Mows rie hc and fast upon the chamber door. ttope gi  evd a,    th last desperate effort, I tore myself from Poindexter's arms, leaving portions of my appsrel in his gap.   huh   i  nmn flase through m id ht     B mhth my i lover otsda, shouting.: "Claenc! Care ce, save me!"I leaped to the door, Wihih gave 'Way ere I reached i. "Sarah ISarah i what is all this!" God of tiedyen be thanked I it was the manly voice of Clarence Burr that uttered these thrilling words, and it was my. lover's noblg form that bounded past me to take vengeance on the craven villain who had sough my ruin. Quickly I turned, and yet bare/y in 'i to See the two men close in deadly. combat. B^* - -Pwefl n athletic, but, while Clarence was .......un oidpergase   - wing)      THE SECESSIONISTS.          19 a murderous-looking bowie knife. Ere he had time to use it, however, A  he was felled senseless to the floor by a blow from the strong arm II4s of Clarence. Without stopping to inflict further punishment upon -"  his now helpless adversary, my betrothed turned, and, grasping my 1  armn, hurried me from the room, exclaiming as he did so: "f i "Come, my dear, let us fly, for we are both in danger!" Ten minutes had not passed before we were being whirled away from Knoxville as rapidly as two splentdid horses could sweep us. !:  We had passed through Erin ere rein was drawn; but, considering s himself, by this time, safe from successful pursuit, Clarence slackened our speed, and then narrated to me the causes of his haste. He had heard that the reason of young Poindexter's return from Nashville, was, rst, to effect the lynching of himself by a pafty of Secessionists, and then force me to become his mistress. Several of this hired party of intended, murderers had been pointed out to Clarence lounging about the streets, but more especially about the railroad station, thus evidently showing their determination to prevent his escape. Appearing tq engage himself in his usual business until the afternoon, he in reality busied himself with contriving and putting into execution, a plan to effect my escape as well as his own.  Securing a light carriage and horses, he got a friend living in the same house with himself to drive it about dusk round close to Poindexter's house, and conceal it in a lot there. Being obliged to return to his dwelling, hej had received my note, read it, and immediately written me that he would call for me about half-past seven, or eight o'clock, supposing that Alfred would be out at that time. All had worked smoothly, and, at the hour named he had stopped for me. Entering the house he waited below stairs, momentarily expecting the appearance of some one of the family or servants, until he was startled by my screaming for assistance, when he bounded up stairs to my rescue; with what success the reader is already acquainted. Poindexter had unfortunately been in at the time Clarence's note came, and had received, opened and read it. On the following morning we reached Loudon, and took boarding with a friend of Clarence's, who, although thus befriending us, (for the place was filled with Secessionists, and Mr. Burr was noted as an enthusiastic Unionist, while I, of course, would be hated on account of being from Massachusetts,) warned us to keep as retired as possible, and not to remain too long in the town at any rate. During the anxious, weary day Clarence and I canvassed our hopes and  prospects, and the conclusions to which we were forced were not at   20          SIX MONTHS AMONG , all promising, for, turn in whatever direction we might, there was i nothing but Secession and Southern Rights. The ferer was so high : that argument was in vain; it was either "Secession," or "Union,"  and the advocates of the latter cause met with nothing less than the i! most brutal usage, and even death. We saw from our own Window,  i an old, white-headed man hung up to a tree before his own door, and ? only saved on account of his age. His offence was warmly remonstrating with a crowd of ruffians, who were savagely beating j a man supposed to be loyal to the United States' Government. .  On the third night after taking up our abode in Loudon we bade our friend farewell, and started for Milledgeville, the capital of Georgia, and also Clarence's birth-place. All of his relations resided there, and as they thought very highly of him, he imagined that, upon our arrival amongst them, our troubles would be at an end. As we sat in the car we were speculating upon this subject, when I chanced to raise my eyes, and a deathly chill crept over me, as I saw Alfred Poindexter, standing close to the car window, talking to two villainous-looking men. Our recognition was mutual, and, with a mockery of politeness, he raised his hat, and, wishiqg us both a good evening, walked quickly away, followed by his companions. His baleful presence was ominous of evil; but Clarence, although a man of peace, was cool, determined, and of unflinching bravery, and, as he remarked: "Well, well, that vile mani pursues us like our own shadows; we must do our best to avoid him," I noticed him quietly preparing his weapons for defense. My heart became sick with a dreadful fear, and, speaking in a whisper, I besought my noble protector to save himself and leave me to do the best I could. To this proposition Clarence would not listen; but bade me cheer up, and hope for the best. We remained here until the next morning, and, as during the day we saw nothing more of Poindexter, I endeavored to persuade myself that we had got rid of him. By the time we came to Fountain Hill, a town within eight or nine miles of the State line between Tennessee and Georgia, I succeeded in making mayself believe that our path was no more to be crossed by our enemy. But here we found the truth of the old adage fully proved, that "there's many a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip." As the train stopped, a great commotion was raisel outside; and, Among yells and cheers for Jeff. Davis, the Stars and Bars, and the Southern Confederacy, we heard the cry raised: "Lynch the d--d Yankees Hang 'em   Shoot 'em down 1" ^ Upon this a rush was made, at the car immediately behind ours,   T   EE S ECES8IONIST S , and we saw several persons dragged out and; hustled away. What was done with them we did not see, for, at this mom ent, th e whistle s  ounded, and the train m oved off. It would be utterly impossible for me to describe the siudd th at seize d m e at this juncture; as I a gain beheld Alfred Poindexter, this time at the head of a squad of men armed withrifles. His quick glance fell upon Clarence and myself, - and;  instantly saying something to his vile comrades, he pointed toward the car in which we   were seated. The next moment, simultaneously with the reports of the pieces, several balls came whistling through the oar, only one of which, however, did any serious damage, striking and breaking the arm of a sweet, innocent little girl, who, at the time, was sleeping soundly on her mother's lap, all unconscious of the turmoil around her. "God of Mercy[ what an infernal set of devilsl" exclaimed Clarence, rushing to the wounded child, who, waking up suddenly, and seeing the blood running down from her dangling arm, began to scream with terror. A surgeon who happened to be in the car, also, stepped forward, and, with the assistance of Mr. Burr, who himself had some little knowledge of surgery, bandaged up the broken limb temporarily, until we could reach the next stopping place, where the child's mother resided. On sped the train, and when it had carried us beyond the boundary of Tennessee, Clarence breathed more freely, and, in fervent tones, said to me: . We sha soon be safe now, my dear." "'I wish I could think so, Clarence," replied I, "but a dreadful suspense haunts me, a fear of coming evil troubles me, not on my own  account, but on yours. Something seems to tell me that calamity of some sort is coming over us.' t Oh, nonsense! my dear I Your nerves have been shattered, and you are unnecessarily depressed in spirits," gaily answered Clarence. "I hope and prayit may be as you say," said I, "but I greatly fear that my impression has more  ght in it than you lke to admit. However, let us trust in God, and, if it is Eis divine w to preserve us, none will be able to prevail against us. i;  "Come what will," answered my brave-hearted piotector, resolutely, "they shall never part us except through my death. X Well didClarence keep his promise. But let me not anticipate. Well did-Garenoe -keep ...., ;m,ortae hi o c cu ed until {After leaving iDalton, nothing of much importance occurred until - we came to Adairsville,and here fell upon me the heaviest stroke of ray life. As the passengers alighted, they yere surrounded by a gang of armed, and half intoxicated desperadoes, calng ,RSGULATOra, The leader of these miscreants, bearing in one , ]RBgPOS   SIX MONTHS AMONG              ' ' hand a small Secession flag, and in the other our National colors, union down and craped, put the question to every passenger:   ; :I "Which flag do you go for?" With my heart sinking with fear, I watched Clarence's features. They were calm and exceedingly pale, but they flushed brightly as  the ruffianly interrogator stepped to my betrothed, and, recognizing :A him, said, with an oath, as he was about to pass to the next one: { "I needn't ask you, Mr. Burr, I know you're a Southern Rights' man, to the back bone."                     ' ! i "I am a Southern Rights' man, gentlemen," responded Clarence,  "but only under the fag for which Southern blood was shed in the Revolution." " 1 "Whatl" retorted the leader, scowling, "ain't you Secesh? Are you a renegade, a traitor to the South?"             ; Whatever answer poor, dear Clarence commenced to these insolent questions, was lost in the shout that was raised by the gang. "A traitor to the Southl 'a renegade I down with him kill him  kill him " 1"i In his enthusiasm, Clarence must have forgotton himself, for, seizing the flag that was craped, from the ruffian's hand before him, he tore from about it the crape, drew a revolver, and, waving the flag above his head, Shouted in a Stentorian voice: "These are my colors I and the colors of every true Southerner I  The Stars and Stripes forever 1" Scarcely had he uttered these words, when the owner of the two flags struck him a violent blow in the face, that fairly staggered him. The next moment the villain lay grovelling in his death agonies at my very feet. Never, never shall I forget the scene that followed.  A simultaneous rush was made upon Clarence, who, still waving  aloft the flag, shouted:        - "These are my colors I Come on cowards "  Several pistol reports rang out from the crowd; and my lover sank  to his knees, on which another rush was made upon him by his  dastardly assailants, who endeavored to bear him to the ground, and  trample him beneath their feet. By this last onset Hhad been  separated from him, and, during the fearful struggle that succeeded, I could only now and then catch a glimpse of his pale, blood-streaked  face, and the flag, which at intervals he waved above him, only,  however, to be stamped immediately to earth again.  In a moment my soul was on fire. I lost all fear. My lover was  a hero, a martyr, and I resolved to mingle my blood with his. With.  the strength of an enraged lioness ,robbed of her mate, I, who so      XTHl SECESSIONISTS.         25 shortly before trembled and turned sick at the thought of blood, dashed aside my foes, an4d made my way to the quivering body, whose once manly, handsome features had been mashed and ground, by the heels of his foes, into a shapeless, loathesome mass. Snatching from the grasp of a swarthy villain, a murderous-looking bowie knife, the blade of which was red with the)life tide of Clarence's heart, I stood over the remains of my lover, and madly, wildly dared my enemies to an encounter. Brave Knights!" cried I, in the rage that consumed me; "do you fear a frail woman? Come on, and you shall see that a daughter of the old Bay State knows how to die 1" "Hip I hip fur the Yankee gal 1" yelled one of the villains. "Don't kill her, Bill, don't " he continued, as a companion was in the act, of discharging a pistol at me,"'Don't kill her I let's take her prisoner, and put her to the tortures!" "That's it I that's it, boysl" bawled the others, and, even as I was preparing to sell my life as dearly as possible, a noose, thrown from behind, dropped over my head and shoulders, and I was jerked violently to the ground, losingmy weapon as I fell. So stunned was by the concussion of the fill, that for some minutes after, I was almost insensible, and utterly helpless in the hands of my persecutors, who, rudely binding me, dragged me away to a field on the outskirts of the town to'put me to "the tortures i What was meant by "the tortures"I could at first only conjecture, but, upon arriving at the 'designated place, I soon found out the import of the term. Amid the jeers, insults and indignities of a motley assemblage of spectators, many of whom I blush to write were women, I was, stripped of my apparel from the waist upward, and then being tied to the tail of a- rikety old cart, to which was hitched a miserable horse, I was, dragged twice roundl'the field. Some one then proposed that the Yankee witch should be lashed to death, while another yelled- for tar and feathers, and yet another clamored that I ought to be burned. In the midst of this confusion a fourth called out that I should be sold. The last idea being a novel one, was caught at instantly by the mob, and, with ribald shouts and laughter; it was decided that I shduld be auctioned off to the highest-and best bidder. The cart was accordingly driven to the centre of the lot, and I was forced to mount it, while one of the gang who had murdered my lover, leaping to my side, commenced the sale. In my grief I had not recognized the voice which had made the proposition thus to bargain me away for dollars and cents; but, as   26         SIX MONTHS AMONG  my tearful eyes were now for a moment raised to see if perchance there was one pitying look bestowed upon me, they fell upon my old persecutor, Alfred Poindexter, who, standing close by, gazed upon me with one of the most .cruel, bitter and relentless expressions on his faeethat I have ever seen upon human'features. With the most obscene expressions interlarding his language, the creature-for I will not call him man-who was acting the part of auctioneer, bawled forth the terms of the sale, winding up with: '(Now, gentlemen, what's bid fur this here first class Yankee gal?" 'A burst of merriment greeted this conclusion, and by the time it had somewhat subsided, Poindexter leaped into the cart in which I stood, and addressed' the mob, as nearly as I can recollect, in the following words: "Gentlemen, there is a peculiarity about this piece of goods, (slapping me familiarly upon the shoulders,) that I wish to explain to you all before any person makes a bid. A few years ago, six or seven I believe, my father was foolish enough to adopt this young, blooming Massachusetts female as his daughter. I was away in the North at the time, and when I returned home, some three years later, I was simple enough to fall desperately in love with her-for which I ought to ask every true Southern man's pardon-." Cries of "good!" and "that's sol" mingled with loud applause, interrupted the despicable speaker, who, when quiet was restored, continued. '"I used all my eloquence then to induce her to go for the Union-that was Union to myself-but she was Secesh to the core, on account of the renegade Burr, to whom you have meted out his just deserts." As a storm of cheers greeted this cowardly and heartless expression, I felt exasperated enough to have shed the blood of my adroit and cunning foe; but it would have been, worse than useless to resist the pressure of the circumstances by which I was surrounded,. and, therefore, choking back my rising emotions, I awaited, with as much calmness and resignation as I could command, whatever fate awaited me. Poindexter resumed: "Very soon after this I was obliged, on her account, to remove from Knoxville to Nashville, and there I remained until the breaking forth of the present patriotic spirit all over the South, when I resolved to return, and once more endeavor to convert the lady from the puritanical error of her ways. She still, however, persisted in her aversion to the Union, and I was about to follow out old Abe Lincoln's policy of coercion, when her traitor lover unexpectedly interfered, and, before I had time to defend myself, struck me senseless to the floor. Like the mudsills. whose cause he advocated,   THE SECESSIONISTS. he w as too cowardly t o meet me in fair, open combat, and when I recovered he had fled with his f  air inamorat a . Quckly I earning what direction the fugitives had taken , I instantly  gavvrehase. Once or twice I c  aught a glimpse of them  e I have Adarsho sent a volley after them, but wie th          trout blffet. oever, I have ,now come u   p with my game. Y  ou have s ave me the trouble, gentlemen, of ridding the South of an arch enemy t  o h er ask gentle in dispe'21 g O summarily of Clarence Burr, and now cause, in disposing so s m  i berstan& me, of b of you the additional?  dr I hpe  one will bid against me. his intended wife, or widow , and I h ope no one w ill b id against e. I offer for her more than a score of Yankees are worth, which is One I offer for her more than aorea t^at to the amount of ten Di  ne If I get her for that I wil tand treat t o the amount o ten dollars. What say you, gentlemen        t   v   The cheers, shouting and yelling with whih this vile and contemptible proposition met, was terrific; but, reader, I dare dwell contem ptible propositi n e  seSufcone it, therefore, to say s in no longer upon this harrowing scene. uf    ab tfred short, that, twenty minutes later, I wI dragged aw. by re Poindexter, who was ow m master, ancl I his abject, unpitiedslave. Oh! the horrors of that terrible day will never be obliteratec from m  y mind, while Memory holds her place. My relnt le ss Perseutor , whose intentions I could not divine, led me to a miserable hut occupied only by a negro and his wife, an left me there, sa ying, as he tools his departureprhend "(Remember, Miss, you are now my   slave, do you camprehe my slave I shall be back here as soon as I settle something I have to do here, and in the meantime let there be no attempt at escape, or I'll get the hounds after you, and then the Lord help you A moment after, I was alone with my two     ebony jailors, whom pindeer had duly w..arned and threatened in the event o my. Po'ndeer had ^\^w^learnee that these two slaves, endeavoring to fly. I subsequently   ed, belonge to young together with the estate upono w, hi I o   n  oe txer'Xith        a low cry of anguish, I sank bewilere poindextr'7S father. Nith a low drping my face in my ad despairing upon a             must hav 1e hands, burst into an unco inutes, anlen   a handlaid sofetlyt thI s  overcome for fullfive m lnute  I  though my tears, saw on my shoulker. I started, and, looking UPthror Old Chloe, the negro's wife, bending over me. Oo bless that poor ol& creature I for her's was the-frst glance of pity that had beenturned eon me for a   long, long time. Her voice was broken anl h usky as i      "Dar now,  issus, don't cry no morel Sampson nor Chloe won't let nobody r  e  Dar now, chile, don't cry no more " et Dar now, Chile, "Ie od hr    28          SIx MONTHS AMONG God bless you I God bless you, Chloe, for those words" sobbed I, grasping almost affectionately the dark hand that had sobbtartled me, and looking almost happily u into the ebon face so stfulartled goodness. It would delight m  to dwell at more length fulponthe kindness and devotion of these two poor, benighted, down-trodden slaves, but space forbids, and I am therefore forced t o narrate only the principal points of interest in my story of woe. After sunset, being much refreshed, I lay down to obtain a little repose. I had not been long thus, when I observed Sampson and Chloe whispering mysteriously, and now'and then casting toward oe quick and significant glances. M-y mindintantly   towmisgave merd td visions of violence and treacery danced before my eyes. As I lay suspiciously watching my two companions who thought me sound asleep Chloe said in an undertone: "Dar now, Sam, I tells ye, nct fur all, wes got to take her long wid us!" Berry well Chloe," replied Sampson, "go long an'ake h,  dn, ao she kin git ready."       g   wake her up A moment later, the negress was shaking me gently by the shoulder, AsI raised myself upon my elbow, she said: "Git up, chile, an' come ober to de light, Sam's agwine to tell ye suin what'I1 tickle ye I1 mind dat I' Doing as I was desired, I seated myself on a low stool on one side of the humble chimney-place, in which was burning a cheerful lo fire, while my two friends took their plates immediately opposite to me le                   iately opposite 4tMiss Sarah," said Sampson, opening the subject abruptly, "how'd ye like to go to Canada?"ubject abruptly  Nothing would give me Oore pleasure, Sampson, lan'ered I1 wnderinglya "bu I fear thait will never be my good fortune to escape from this fearful place alive. " "Dunno %out dat dan, chile," rejoined Sampson, with a meaning look upon his heavy features, "^dnno'bout dat dar. Dis chile's a mason; he don't fool his time a talkin; but him an' Chloe dar's agwine on de Air Line to Canada to night, an ' ef isy  din't aferd, an' 'ud like to go why she kin git ready an' go long. D ei, she understan' dat dan, widout akin' any foolish    Deueshuns hyah " I had often, during the preceding years of my residence in the ! 8outh, heard of secret organizations amohg the slaves, bu  'nntil now, had I oome upon the proof Of the fact. Aft er ne, momen   te onsideration I decided to confd e my safety to my dusky friends, and accordingly replied-       t   ,   '   , sydy^^^^^^                 -Usk ^s^A^^0,r&91 relid   THE SECESSIONISTS.          29 "Sampson, I believe and trust you. I am ready at any moment to fly, for I certainly can be no worse off than I ain now." "An' ye won't ax no foolish queshuns, hyah?" persisted Sampson. "I will not." "Dat's enuff den, Missey," said. the slave, rising and preparing to leave the hut. He continued, this time addressing his wife: "Now, Chloe, jes you fix ebery thing all right 'gainst I come back." With the close of the sentence Sampson was gone, and I was alone with his wife, who immediately entered upon the task assigned her. It may be inferred that the process or ceremony was a lengthy one, from the fact that it was completed only a little while before Sampson came back, which was hard on to midnight. I would like to give a full detail of all that passed on that eventful evening, but I am solemnly bound never to betray what I then learned. This much I can and will say, however, IF THE WHTES IN THE SOUTH KNEW EVERYTHNG THAT IS GOING ON, AND HAS BEEN GOING ON FOR YEARS, AROUND THEM, THEY WOULD NOT SLEEP SOUNDLY IN THEIR BEDS FOR ANY TWO CON SECUTIVE  HOURS. By the time that Sampson returned, I had been completely metamorphosed into a young negress, the skin of my face, neck, arms and hands being ingeniously colored,* my own hair, after biing trimmed, concealed by woolly locks, and my own dress being replaced by the regular attire of a slave girl. i Chloe had also imparted to me information, signs, tokens, and so forth, by which, with ordinary good fortune, I could, in case we became separated from each other, make my way anywhere through the South. All this was done for me by my two slave friends because I was a nativre of Massachusetts, of which State the slaves have an exalted'opinion. Shortly after midnight, Chloe and-I, closely following Sampson, emerged from the hut and took our way across the fields, thus commencing our first night's journey toward freedom. We continued steadily and silently on our course until-within an hour or two of daylight, halting only at such times as our stalwart guide deemed it prudent to do so. We, by this time, had reached the bank of a- stream that fell into the Alabama fiver. Taking his position close, to the trunk of a huge old 'tree which grew on the very edge of the creek, Sampson gave a shrill, peculiar call, repeating it three times at regular intervals. Five minutes perhaps elapsed ere the signals were answered, and then there came faintly through the still night * We noticed, when we first saw Miss Palmer, that her skin had not yet lost its artificial dark' tinge, and her tresses, also, were short, thus most conclusively proving the lady's assertion.--ED.   30          SIX MONTHS AMONG air, several sharp whistles. Silence ensued for a little while, and then, like a dim, gliding phantom, a light boat or canoe approa4ed the -spot where we stood. The oarsman, also, a negro, used his oars with remarkable dexterity and caution, and, without any apparent effort, guided the frail vessel noiselessly to our feet. Sampson bent down, seized the boat and said something in low tones to its occupant, who answered him in the same cautious manner. At a word, Chloe and I stepped into the boat, instantly followed by Sampson, who, also put out a pair of oars, and, very shortly after, we were fairly flying down the gloomy stream. Day was just breaking as the little craft was run in under a dense thicket of overhanging bushes, in which it was securely concealed from detection. Landing, and still being sheltered from view by the thicket, we were next led to an artfully concealed trap door in the ground, which, being raised, we descended to a roomy cave in which we were to remain until night again set in, when we were to resume our light. For nearly a month we continued thus to make our way onward, assisted invariably by the negroesl At the expiration of the time named, we found ourselves in the middle of the State of South Carolina, safely hidden, as we thought, in the midst of a swamp close to the Santee river. But accident often disconcerts the best laid plans, and so it proved in the present instance. We never travelled except at night, and on the morning on which we arrived at the Santee Swamp Station, a messenger brought us the alarming intelligence, that a slave, belonging to a Mr. Poindexter, having escaped the day previous, the overseer was coming to the swamp with several bloodhounds to search there for him. The slave in question was, by this, fully forty piles away, but we unfortunately were here, and therefore, as I thought, certainly lost. But, as the trusty courier hurried away, Sampson drew forth three pairs of stockings, made of heavy, rough cotton, and completely impregnated ' with a resinous, aromatic substance for the purpose of destroying the scent left upon the ground by the feet. "Now, Missey," said my ebon protector, as he gave me mine,  "we's got to break, we has; so jes pull on dem dar boots, an' run like de debbil dat way; an' when you sees a Mason man, jes tell him ye wants to come to   (the name of one of the Underground Stations which I may not disclose,) an' Ill wait fur ye dar. An', Chloe, you run like de debbil Fodder way; an' I'll run dis way l Good bye, Missey I good bye, chile I mebbe dis nigga'l nebber see ye agin 1"   TlE SEOESSIONISTS. e out of each other's sight;but 1  soon Amoment or so later ve wer      t.....a  CUIIg became so fatigued with my extraordinary xeft ,  I   rmaed to I had left, I maOag no farther, and so, with wnat .1 . ere I had been about t- o ,climb into the foliage of a large tree.  g . ... hourS, when I hdad now and then the, "singing of the hounds," a t  erm used to express the peculiar cry Of those fearful animals when they have got the full scent of a trail. As these ominous sounds  grewl m   oenaily more distinct, I began to give myself UP for lost, I womentar               on mor I hac o;l for I felt sure that it was m of my fwere upon.  to wait, however, for a settlement of my fears, for, withi oa minute, the feroious, howling brutes, six or e ight in number, bounded into sight. With r   edoublesceies they came on directly towne the tree in which I was hidden.    17 gasped ", closing My eye., "G-od have mercy on my trembling in every limb. The bloodhounds were at the  foot of the tree before ese words had left my lips, but they paused not for an instan t  On they had left MY    almost? were out 0f ih.'I  a bounded, and the next moment almost, were. another trail they were on and I was spared . As I was thanking God for my aeliveranee, Ioindexter's overseer, with three orfour ompanions, all armed to the teeth, and bespatgerec from head to foot with mud, came plunging through te mire, an, following t  heir less inhuman dogs, were also soon out of sight and sound. gThePoindexter here mentioned must have been, I suppose, a brother to my guardian, for Ihad often heard the latter speak of him as living in this part of South Cnarolina.   oe  ere 1,ight had wrapped the gloomy aveamp in Egyptian darkness, ere I venture, to descend from my retreat and make my y it o bog. Thrown thus u p o n my ow resources entirely, it may rwell bog. Thrown thus UPOa m9 mo s t  terrible nature; but be supposed that my feelings were of the following implicitly Szmpsoi's directions, I succeeded, after many ow escapes, and some fearful  hardships, in reaching a "Statioha" narrowe to onck's Corners. Here, however, the good fortune , that, close to     O  .   ...;,ed eetofore, had sltynlin mceptious me       of villais StYli'ng with the exeepuions **ine irrwr.   W  tpr...sl with Ife,  prisoner into the hands of a gang   T vhey were Rua I fel a          -Galaxe BRBAVER S themselves the ,'JEFF. DxvIs  U   bx     old braes marching about the country, draggin  g with them ajn  tir fied piece, and endeavoring to induce young men to joia their ranks.                   tIws -tlas T heks  e ruffians, uponascertaining who M ,hat I Was, ta i    These ruffians, UPOU      to Teacl ft MY Stte that I'was trying, my presen  t disguse, ughtto be aut Out te became f uriously inensed, and shouted th    SIX MONTHS AMONG           83 the road. The captain of the gang at length commanding silence, thus addressed them: "FELLOW UNION BREAKERS, we might easily hang or shoot this infernal Yankee wench, but that would be too good for her. Now I believe that tale of her's about coming from Tennessee's all a lie. I believe she's just nothing more or less than a spy, stirring up the niggers and picking up news for Abe Lincoln. Boys, she's a d----d Lincoln Sepoy, and she ought to be served the same way they were; she ought'to be tied before our cannon and blowed to pieces! That's what I think; what do you think?" This harrangue settled my fate, and, amid cries of "Bully fur you, Cap!" "That's it!" "Blow her back to Massachusetts!" mingled with wild shouts and cheers, Hwas roughly seized, and securely bound to the muzzle of the field piece. The -gunner then proceeded deliber- ately to prime it. God of mercy  what a strange, deathly chill seized me as the wretch called with an oath for a lighted cigar. The next moment I heard a fizz, and was enveloped in a cloud of sulphurous, suffocating smoke; but I still lived; the gun would not go off. Several times I felt the monster pick, pick, picking at the . cartridge, then pour in more powder and ignite it, but his best efforts were fruitless, the charge would not explode. "That's one of them sand cartridges we got hold of from that  traitor Yankee the other day!" exclaimed the wretch, with a fearful oath, throwing down his powder horn. Loud were the curses of the craven cowards at the non success of their diabolical intent, and they were about to loosen me that they might remove the defective cartridge and put in a new one, when a peremptory order arrived for them to go instantly to some point or other. Leaving two of their chivalrous number to guard the field piece until they should return for it, the "Union Breakers" hurried away, . just as the shadows of evening were coming on. It soon after commenced to rain, and the two guards, deeming their own comfort more important than looking after their gun, took their way adross a field to a house some fourth of a/mile distant, leaving me still bound, to suffer, and perhaps die before morning. As I stood thus, an unwilling, despairing sentinel, with the wind howling and moaning around, and the rain falling heavily upon me, a wild, a delightful hope arose within my breast. If I could only escape. To entertain the idea and to put it into execution were almost simultaneous, and, after many a useless effort, I at length succeeded in my object, and I was once more free. Oh! how    84s THE SECESSIONISTS. *      fervently I thanked God for his merciful goodness, and with what ying ste p di d m swelled and aching limbs bear me way from that Ere morning dawned I wany a weary ile distnt from my persecutors, the "Union Breakers of Sut  ile dina. Lyifrlosely concealed in the woods during the daytime Icontinued y flight by starlight, and, although at one time nearly famished to deatflight, athy another sick and despondig, and at noty fer almoshed to deaptured, I nanaged at length to reach that section of countr Hazzard's Neck. I had hopedt HT^    ofcounY known as Mazarsd  Neck. I had hoped to get to Beaufort, where resided a Mrs. He Wolf, a lady, who having visited at Mr. Poindexter's in times past, and formed a friendship for me, I though would now aid heand protec that Mrs. De in my dis I learned however, with a breaking heart  , t hat Mrs. De Wolf had, at the begnnmg of the war, emoved destroyed. Yor and thus was my last resource, or hope of human help, f   posble directly North, hen  I btained the intelligence th a large fieet was hovering on ihe coast, and would either attack Port Royal or Savannah.  This information induced me to r-Pain, e for awhile, in the neighborhood, and the resul proved proaidentilal. The reader has doubtless perceived ;hat thus far I h dv e narrated only the principa I or generai points of interest inmy story, and that I  have passed rapidly rom place to place, on the pages of this book. Onut he da '   the ref Helud an   must not therefore, delude himself into the belief that in making my waY from a remot town in Georgia to th    South Carolina coast, I me with but fe w dan gers and adventures. Sofar from that, I might 11 several volumes with the harrowing of my terrible journey, or rather Right. Igannot rlosemyaou nta however, without recording a tragic and touchingincideno thac came under my own observation at, tis t ime, an inciden t of wtich Icame th  e s caus ae. One day 'While I 'Was concealed in the hut of a slave on the B rtrand, Esq., Iwas startled by the entrance of a. negro, who, drawing aside Aunt Debby, an aged slavewoman, told her that the overseer of the next plantation had by aeeiden, seen me the evening before going through a neighboring pat'h of woods with Bob, her son, he had watched us and seen u18s come together to the "quarers,, an j  from  our cautious movements that I The cluster of huts on a plantation in which the slaver and their families live are called , 'The Quarters.),   SIX MONTHS AMONG           35 least, was a fugitive, he was coming over to satisfy himself on the point. Immediately after the negro had ceased talking Bob himself entered the hut. Glancing at me, he strode to the other's side and commenced a hurried colloquy with him, which was soon after interrupted by the approach of the overseer mentioned. I gave myself up for lost, and was just in the act of going outside and surrendering myself, as I noticed the two stalwart slaves shake hands with each other and make a Masonic sign. The following moment the dreaded overseer, armed to the teeth, and whip in hand, came in. In an instant he was seized by Bob and his companion, dashed violently to the floor, and dragged outside the hut. A short but terrible struggle ensued and then I heard several dull, but rapidly-delivered blows, as though struck upon some one's head, followed by a deep, heavy groan and all was still as before. "Merciful Heavens I  no blood must be shed for me!" cried I, starting toward the closed door. But I was stopped by Aunt Debby, who, although rather feeble, pushed me back with some violence, saying, as she did so: "Stay whar you -is, Missey  Does ye want to make a fool o' ye'sef?" I resumed my former place, well knowing from experience that interference on my part would do the overseer no good and myself much harm.; But still my mind was dreadfully harrassed with the conviction that the inquisitive man had met with a violent death at the hands of my sable protectors. The next morning there was much commotion in "the quarters;" the scuffle of the day previous had been seen, and reported to Mr. Bertrand, who, instantly suspecting the result, instituted a vigorous investigation, which ended in the discovery of the unfortunate overseer's body, hidden in a field close by under a heap of brushwood. A little further prosecution of the examination led to the suspecting of Bob as the perpetrator of the deed. Upon being directly accused of the murder, Bob confessed that he had struck the fatal blow, and that, with the aid of a fellow-slave-whom, however, he obstinately refused to name, as he did also the cause of the act-he had dragged the body to the field and concealed it as has been already mentioned. The usual punishment inflicted for the crime that had been committed by Bob, was death by burning alive in the presence of all the slaves on the plantation, but Mr. Bertrand, who is a rabid Secessionist, decided upon another course. He resolved instead of executing the regular sentence upon the poor, devoted slave, who had   36          THE SECESSIONISTS. committed one of the highest crimes because I, (who was under the protection of the SlavW Masonic League), had been in danger of recapture, to send him to the Confederate army to labor in the. intrenchments. Preparations for despatching poor Bob to his destination were quickly completed, and in less than two hours after, a guard of four soldiers marched to "the quarters" to take him away. Upon being seized the offender had been thrust into an out house used for storage purposes, and no one, not even his mother, allow'ed v to have any communication with him. When the solders arrived Mr. Bertrand care with them, and opening the door of Bob's prison, ordered .him to come forth. The culprit obeyed his master's command, and stepped out with a firm, unfaltering tread. How I longed, as I stood in the midst of a group of slave women, (being thus more effectually protected from discovery than in afy other way), to throw myself at Mr. Bertrand's feet, and plead for the pardon of poor Bob; but I knew such a course would be worse than useless, and, therefore, with an aching heart I awaited the departure of the victim. -Bob was soon made aware of his owner's intention, and thereupon, with the big tears coming down his ebon-hued cheeks, he begged that he might' be allowed to bid his mother good-bye. But it seemed as though it was at this very point that Bertrand had determined to torture his victim; for, with a terrible oath, he denied him the privilege begged for, and, as the negro seemed somewhat inclined to disobey him and step away in search of his mother, he raised a heavy walking cane that he had in his hand and struck him a stunning blow that felled him to the earth. I was prepared for something brutal to follow, but the scene that did ensue, I must confess actually paralyzed me. For a moment the poor fellow lay where he had fallen, and then, rousing himself, he got to his feet. Glancing silently about him for a moment, he turned upon his heartless master, and, with a yell that still rings in my ears, grasped him by the throat, threw him down, and, planting his knee upon his breast, whipped out a long, keen knife, that must have been concealed upon his person from the time of his arrest. So astonished were the soldiers that not one of them seemed capable of motion, and, with blade uplifted, his eyes starting from their sockets, and his left hand clutching his master's neck cloth, Bob thus addressed his prostrate victim: "Massa, you's had poor Bob whipped many a time. fur nuffin, and now I'se agwine to hab rebenge on you! -You won't whip Bob any more fur nuffin I Good-bye, massa I good-bye!"   87 SIX MONTHS AMON   O At this instant the soldiers, recovering their v olition, rushe d multe    osly forward; but it was t oo late. The slave, as the I ast word of his wild and mournful e   xclamation left h is lips , dashed the venge  ful steel, not into his master's heart , a s we had all expected, but facross hi s own throat, cutting the q tter from ear to ear. he soldiers started back, and a cry of horror bu rs t fro m eve ry li p at Slthis terrible and singular act of vengeance. As I beheld the crimson tid   e gu s h from the horrid gash, and leap like a cascade down upon the pal e fac e of Bertra, m y ve ry soul seemed to shudder. M r. Bertand, terrified beyond  capability to resist, lay m otionless until the d yin g negro rolle d heavily d own on the ground b esid e him a expired tot As tlough to add to th e excitement of this terrible scene at this moment, Bob's mother, who had been detained away, came hobbling up, and, as she heard all that a dozen tongues inform ed her, and saw her son weltering in his own blood, her feelings found vent in the most extravag ant exclam ations of grief. Throwing herself pon the hear and understand  her. In the  meantime Bertrand,  finding that he was out of further danger, quickly gained his feet, and, with the blind vindictiveness of a wild beast, flew at poor old Aunt Debby. Dragging her from the corpse of her child, he shook her violently, exclaiming with ,You black reprobate, I'll take all this out of your skin. I'll have you whipped to death    d tisy he     nt Debby from s Uthe inhuman speaker saitid this, he pushed A nt Debby from him, and the  aged, derepit woman fell heavily across the body of her son, striking her temple with such force upon a stone as to render her insensible             men acustome  At this dastardly act even the soldiers, men accustome as the y were to senes .of brutality and blood,exclaimed with one voice: , thame s shame- - aut nhig   oukl qudl thee rage of Bertrand, Who instalaly ordered te g uard to g bck to their camp while he himself turned away toward his own dwelling. Poor Bob was carri     ed away o be brie, and Aunt Debby, his. mother, ill unonsious, was borne back to her hut, whither she was Stollowedy grupaongwhich'Iwas. oitherto I had been a&iven along on a stream of C0cueltaeees  thabituas lY p s clf , meto control. I had, ever sikioe my escape, been so hatitually used   38           THE SECESSIONISTS. to hiding myself, in order to avoid peril, that it seemed I could not, up to the present moment, rid myself of the practice. But as I now stood gazing down upon the insensible mother, whose son's death, and that of another human being, had been occasioned through me, (though innocently enough as far as I was concerned), all fear of discovery left me. True, it might be ascertained that I was a fugitive; what cared I? I might be beaten, insulted, tarred and feathered, or hung as a spy; but at that moment it wrecked little to me. Without' further concern, therefore, for my own safety, I imme- diately applied myself to rendering Aunt Debby as comfortable as possible. And this was no slight task; for, soon after regaining her consciousness, she relapsed into a torpor that was presently succeeded by convulsions or spasms. Midnight brought no improvement, and by one o'clock it was very evident, that the weak, unoffending victim of a cruel master's anger, 4   swas dying. I could -do no more, and falling upon my knees I - '  commended Aunt Debby to God. Just before I finished my prayer, I became conscious of the, presence of some one close behind me, and, as I rose, I was confronted by a tall and beautiful lady, whose features, although regular and lovely, were ashy pale. "What dses that mean?" inquired the new comer, pointing in astonishment to my shoulder. I cast my eyes in the direction indicated, and saw that I was discovered. In my exertions with the dying woman my dress had become slightly disarranged, and, as it was only those parts of my person usually exposed to view that had been colored, the disguise was immediately perceptible. Without any attempt, however, to excuse myself, I thus answered the unexpected visitor, who, as I had already surmised was none other than Mrs. Bertrand:' "Madam, I feel assured that nothing but your own merciful heart has prompted you thus to visit this humble place at such a late hour. I am, as you doubtless suspect, a white woman, and .a fugitive. I am ready to explain all to you, but not now. This poor, old creature, who to-day was struck down insensible upon the dead body of her son, is dying--!" "Dyingl Oh, no! God forbid " interrupted Mrs. Bertrand, in troubled, anxious tones as she hastened to the humble couch, and bent tenderly over Aunt Dbby, who did not, however, recognize her.                  , We were not detained much longey watching Bob's mnother, for ere another half hour had passed, her heart had ceased'its pulsations,   39 SIx MoNTas  AMONGO and h er s oul ha gon e t o that bar wh ere the balance will be rightly adjusted.           - 3All was still. Deat h was in Au nt Debb y's hut , and , as sh e la y in the sleep that kn ows n o waking, I narrated to Mrs . Bertrand the story of my escape and sub sequent t rials and perils. "Ah   " exclaimed she, a s I finished' the recital, "you have indeed had but a  sorry experience within the last six months of your life; dear old Star   Spangle d B anne r w aving triumphantly over the And   so w ould I, and so would nan y and many a Southerner, w ho at present is obliged to keep quiet. Yes, and three-fourths of the Southern army itself will hail the old flag with delight instead of fight against it:y."  It w  as not unti I three o'clock in the morning that Mrs. Bertrand and I parted, she to return to her own dwelling and I to continue my flight, or rather to seek a more safe retreat than the sadly desolatedahut of poor old Aunt Debby, whose eyes I closed and whose limbs I disposed for the grave. During the conversation  had with Mrs. Bertrand I learned that a message having arrived for her husband  hortly after the transpiring of the scene I narrated above, to'go immediately to Fort Walker upon urgent business, he had left home, and she, taking advantage of his absence, came over to "the quarters. I  could not ascertain from her,.however, the easo  n wh y she cam e at might instead of daylight. She kindly offered to assist me in whatever way lay in her power, and pressed me to accept the loan of a sumof money. But as I was in reality much safer among the slaves than I could hope to be with in reality mch safer among e a more. rs. Bertrand, I  declined her sincere, disinterested offer, feeling confident that my deliverace was near. My supposition proved correct. Ere dawn came I was several miles away from the Bertran plantation, making, with what speed a due exercise of caution allowed in the direction of Port Royal. It was on November 7th, tht the booming thunder of the guns of the Union fleet, and the sullen answering roar of the i onlthea batteries, announcedat that the conict had commenced. Ohl how new I how singularl how intense were the emotions that flled me. ,^    rl hour, and still the belching cannons hurled huge,    
                  
             
         
       
   
